SELECT METHODS 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



HENRY LEFFMANN, A.M., M.D. 

PROPRSSOK OP CHEMISTRY AND TOXICl'LOGY IN THE WOMAN'S MBUICAL C<>LLB(.H OP PSNNSVL- 

VANIA ; PKBS1UKNT OP THB PACUI.TY OF THR WA(.SKK PRBR INSTITUTK OF &CIBNCK ; 

VICB-PKBSIUBNT OP THB (UKIIISH) SOCIETY OP PtlBI.IC ANALYSTS 



WILLIAM BEAM, A.M., M.D. 

POKMBKLY CHIEF CHEMIST BALTIMOKK AND OHIO HAII.kAI> 



WITH FIFTY-THREE ILLUSTRATIONS IN THE TEXT, 
FOUR FULL-PAGE PLATES, AND MANY TABLES 




LONDON 

REBMAN , LI MITED 

129, SHAFTESBURY AVENUE, W. C. 
I9OI 



Copyright, 1901, 
BY P. BLAKISTON'S SON & CO. 



PRESS OF WM. F. FELL &. Co. 

1220-24 SANSOM STREET 
PHILADELPHIA 



PREFACE 



This book is intended to be a concise summary of analytic 
methods adapted to the needs of both practising analysts and 
advanced students in applied chemistry. A knowledge of the 
principles of chemistry and of ordinary laboratory manipula- 
tions is assumed, but some physical and chemical methods 
have been described in detail to assist in securing uniformity 
of operation. 

Much valuable matter relating to food analysis has been 
published in this country within the last decade, but most of 
it is scattered through official bulletins and reports that appear 
in limited editions and are distributed unsystematically. The 
bulletins of the United States Department of Agriculture and of 
the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists are now nearly 
all out of print and scarce. The present work contains a 
large amount of the data and processes given in those publi- 
cations, together with data from reports of some .of the state 
agricultural experiment stations. The pages of The Analyst 
have been drawn upon largely, as also the works of A. H. 
Allen, H. Droop Richmond, and Charles A. Mitchell. 

The collection and arrangement of material were begun 
over a year ago, but were suddenly interrupted, and when 
resumed after considerable time, it was found necessary to in- 
corporate many new processes and analytic results. Dr. 
Beam having taken up residence in a distant part of the world, 
the duty of completing the book, as well as the proof-reading 
and indexing, devolved entirely upon the senior author. It 



VI I'KKKACE 

has been impracticable to keep Dr. Beam advised of chair, 
or progress in the work or to submit any proof-sheets to him. 

The effects of food adulteration and the methods of control- 
ling it have not been given any consideration, it being con- 
sidered that these topics are not matters of concern for the 
analyst. Special attention has been given to the presentation 
of methods for detecting preservatives, artificial colors, and 
poisonous metals. 

The plates of leaves and starch granules were reproduced 
from Bulletin 13 of the United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, the originals being in many cases retouched by Dr. Beam. 
Several tables for general reference have been prepared. 
Effort has been made to maintain throughout the book uni- 
formity of nomenclature and method of statement in describ- 
ing analytic operations. 

Unless otherwise stated, all temperatures are centigrade 
and all readings of scale or arc positive. 

715 WALNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA. 
April, 



CONTENTS 



ANALYTIC METHODS 

PHYSICAL DATA: PACR 

Specific Gravity Melting and Solidifying Points Boiling jwint 
Polarimetry Spectroscopy Microscopy, 9~35 

< iiKMicAi. DATA: 

Wa'er and Fixed Solids (Extract) Nitrogen Crude Fiber 
Ash Extraction with Miscible Solvents Extraction with Im- 
miscible Solvents Distillation and Sublimation Apparatus and 
Chemicals, 36-67 

APPLIED ANALYSIS 

t'.i NKKAI. MKTHODS: 

Poisonous Metals Colors Preservatives, . 68-91 

SPECIAL METHODS: 

Starch Flours and Meals Ilread Leavening Materials 

Sugars Honey Candies and Confections, 92-140 

Fats a IK/ Oils : lodin Number Volatile Acids Saponitication 
Value Acid Value Solubility in Acetic Acid Thermal Reac- 
tion with Sulfuric Acid Specific Temperature React!.. >n 
Bromin Thermal Value Elaidin Test Index Soluble and 
Insoluble Acids Cholesterol and Phytosterol Acetyl Value 
Unsaponifiable M.tter Ana'ytic Data Special Tests, . . . 140-171 

< 'live Oil Cottonseed Oil Maize Oil Arachis Oil Sesame 

< )jl_Rape Oil Coconut Oil Cacao-butter Lard Butter- 
fat, " 171-191 

Milk tin,/ Milk Products: Milk Condensed Milk Butter- 
Cheese Fermented Milk Products, 192-250 

Non-alcoholic Bevtragts : Tea Coffee Cacao, 251-282 

Condiments and Spices : Vinegar Pepper Long Pepper 
Cayenne Pepper (MI gor Nutmeg Mace Allspice Cinna- 
mon Cloves Mustard Vanilla Extract Lemon Juice and 

:>irup Catsup Table Accessories, 2 Sj-3 2 5 



viii 

CONTENTS 



370-37 



PLATES 

REFERENCES 

INDEX. 



CORRECTIONS 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



ANALYTIC METHODS 

PHYSICAL DATA 
Specific Gravity. 

In food analysis, determination of specific gravity of solids is 
rarely made. Fats are usually tested in the melted condition. 

The following method for solid fats, due to Hager, is suita- 
ble for small amounts of material : The sample is melted and 
allowed to drop slowly from the height of about 3 centimeters 
into some cold alcohol in a dish. The globules thus obtained 
are placed in diluted alcohol at 15.5, the strength of which 
is so adjusted that the globules float in any part of the liquid. 
The specific gravity of the liquid is then determined ; it is, of 
course, the same as that of the globules. Many substances 
when cooled suddenly are liable to have abnormal density, 
hence it is preferable, as noted by A. H. Allen, to use frag- 
ments cut from a solid mass cooled under normal conditions 
and allowed to stand at least 24 hours. 

The specific gravity of a liquid is generally expressed by 
comparison with water. Confusion and inconvenience have 
arisen from the fact that results have been referred to water at 
different temperatures as unity. It is becoming customary 
to express, as is proper, the temperatures of observation and 
comparison. ^ indicates a determination at 100 and com- 
2 9 



IO 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



parison with water at 15.5 as unity. It is best to compare 
the substance and the standard at the same temperature. 

Pyknometer or Specific-gravity Bottle.-. This is a gener- 
ally applicable means of determining specific gravity, and is 
capable of furnishing good results. It is a bottle with a 
perforated stopper adjusted to hold a certain weight of 




FIG. i. 

water at a standard temperature, usually 15.5. Bottles as 
sold are often inaccurate. The weight of water that a bottle 
holds should be carefully determined. 

E. R. Squibb devised a convenient form of pyknometer (Fig. 
i ) which permits the determination to be made at any temper- 



M'KCIFIC GRAVITY I I 

at ure between o and 25, and compared with water at the 
same temperature. As received from the glass-blower, the 
chemically clean and tared bottle should hold 100 grams of 
recently-boiled distilled water at 20 at about 58 divisions of 
a scale of o to 100. In weighing the water into the bottle, 
the fine adjustment to o.ooi gram is made by very narrow 
strips of blotting-paper that will pass easily down the bore of 
the graduated stem and absorb minute quantities of the liquid. 
When the 100 grams are in the bottle, and the column stands 
between 50 and 65 divisions of the scale, the stopper is put in, 
a leaden ring is put on the neck, and the whole is immersed 
in a bath at o until the column of water in the stem ceases 
to fall. It should then read at zero of the scale, or not much 
above it, and the reading should be noted. If it reads below 
zero, the bottle is too large, and the stopper part of the stem 
must be ground farther into the bottle neck, until the reading, 
on new trial, brings the column a little above zero. The 
bottle is then put into a bath at 25 and kept there, with 
stirring of the bath, until the column ceases to rise, when 
it should read somewhere from 90 to 100 of the scale. 
Should it read above 100, while the lower limit is as far 
above the zero, the bottle is too small, and the end of the 
stopper must be ground off until the reading of the column is 
within the graduations at both ends of the scale. Squibb 
used the same bottle for many years. During the first two 
years the zero point rose, as happens in thermometers, but 
of late years the position has been constant. 

Sprengd Tube. This is a form of pyknometer with which 
the highest degree of accuracy is attainable, and is especially 
suitable for determinations at the boiling-point of water. It 
consists (Fig. 2) essentially of a thin glass U-tube terminating 
in two capillary er.ds bent at right angles and each provided 
with a ground cap. One of these capillary tubes must have 
a smaller caliber than the other not larger than 0.25 mm. 



12 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



The larger tube should bear a mark at m. The tube is filled 
by immersing b in the liquid under examination, connecting 
the smaller end with a large glass bulb, and applying suction 
to the latter by means of a rubber tube, as shown in figure 3. 
If now the rubber tube be closed, the glass tube will fill auto- 
matically. It is placed in water, the ends being allowed to 
project, and the water is brought to the proper temperature. 
A conical flask may be used to contain the water, the ends of 
the Sprengel tube being supported by the neck. The mouth 



J 




FIG. 2. 



FIG. 3. 



of the flask should be loosely covered. As the liquid 
expands it will drop from the larger orifice. When this 
ceases, the liquid is adjusted to the mark at ;;/. If beyond 
the point, a little may be extracted by means of a roll ot 
paper. The tube is then taken out of the bath, the caps 
adjusted, the whole thoroughly dried, allowed to cool, and 
weighed. The same operation having been performed with 
distilled water, the calculation of the specific gravity is made 
as usual. 



SPECIFIC GRAVITY 



'3 



\\'t-sf/>tttil Ini/nncc. This affords a convenient means of 
determining specific gravity. It consists of a delicate steel- 
yard provided with a counterpoised plummet. The latter, 
being immersed in the liquid, the equilibrium is restored by 
means of weights or riders, the value of which is directly 
expressed in figures for the specific gravity without calcula- 
tion. Thus, the rider A' is of such a weight as to express 
the first decimal place, and will be represented by any of the 
figures from o to 9 according to its position on the beam. 
Similarly the riders A, B, and C furnish the figures for the 




iljl 



FIG. 4. 

second, third, and fourth decimal places respectively. The 
weight A 2 is used in the case of liquids heavier than water. 

According to McGill, the best results are obtained by em- 
ploying plummets of different weights and density, adapted to 
the different characters (e. g., viscosity) of the liquids under 
examination. For viscous oils, .the ratio of the weight of the 
plummet in air to the weight of the liquid displaced should 
be 4 rather than the usual ratio (2). 

The ordinary form of Westphal balance is untrustworthy, 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



but good instruments are made by some European manu- 
facturers. 

The principle of the hydrostatic balance may be applied 
by using a plummet (that sold with the Westphal balance 
will serve) with the ordinary analytic balance. Test-tubes 
weighted with mercury and sealed in the flame may also be 
used. The plummet is suspended to the hook of the balance 
by means of a fine platinum wire. The specific gravity of any 
liquid may be determined by noting the loss of weight of the 





FIG. 5. 



FIG. 6. 



plummet when immersed in the liquid and dividing this by 
the loss in pure water. 

If the determination be made at the boiling-point of water, 
the arrangements shown in figures 5 and 6 may be employed. 
The temperature of the liquid will not usually rise above 99. 
This may be done with a hydrometer or balance, if the cylin- 
der containing the liquid be kept for a sufficient time in boiling 
water. With the Sprengel tube high accuracy may be ob- 



-I 1(11' 1C GRAVITY 15 

taiiu'd. 1 he weight of the Sprcngel tube and that of water 
contained at 15. 5 being known, the tube should be com- 
pletely filled with the oil, by immersing one of the orifices in 
the liquid and sucking at the other. The tube is placed in a 
conical flask containing water which is kept actively boiling, a 
porcelain crucible-cover being placed over the mouth of the 
flask. The oil expands and drops from the orifices. When 
this ceases, the oil adhering to the outside is removed by the 
cautious use of filter-paper, the tube removed, wiped dry, 
cooled, and weighed. The weight of the contents divided by 
the weight of water contained at 15.5 will give the specific 
gravity at the temperature attained compared with water at 
15.5. When the amount of material is sufficient, the deter- 
mination may be made by use of the plummet, employing a 
cylindrical bath with two orifices. One of these is fitted \\ith 
an upright tube for conveying the steam away from the neigh- 
borhood of the balance ; into the other a test-tube, 15 cm. in 
length and 2.5 cm. in diameter, fits tightly, the joint being 
made perfect by cork or india-rubber. The test-tube is filled 
with the substance to be tested, and the plummet immersed 
in it. The water in the outer vessel is then kept in constant 
ebullition, until a thermometer, with which the oil is repeat- 
edly stirred, indicates a constant temperature, when the plum- 
met is attached to the lever of the balance, and counterpoised. 
For temperatures higher than 100 glyccrol or paraffin may 
be used, but considerable care is required in such cases. 

Hydrometers. These are much used for the determination 
of the specific gravity of liquids, but the indications are less 
reliable than by the methods described above. The instru- 
ments as furnished are rarely accurately graduated, and the 
zero point, at least, should be verified by immersing in distilled 
water at a standard temperature. Very sensitive hydrometers 
with slender stems, and carefully graduated, are made for use 
with milk. These are capable of furnishing good results 



l6 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Care should be taken to make the reading at the top, center, 
or bottom of the meniscus according to the method used in 
the graduation of the instrument. Instruments intended for 
use with opaque liquids should be graduated to be read at the 
top of the meniscus. 

The actual specific gravity of any substance is the ratio of 
its density at a given temperature to that of water at the same 
temperature. Statements made upon any other basis than this 
may be converted into actual specific gravity by calculation 
from the table of density of water given in the appendix. 
Thus, a determination of specific gravity of 0.8000 at ~. 
may be converted into actual specific gravity (^) as follows : 

Specific gravity of water at 15 = 0.99916. 
" " " 100 0.95866. 

100 100 

15 Too 6 

Therefore, 95866 : 99916 : : 0.8000 : 0.8337 (actual specific gravity at loo). 

Melting and Solidifying Points. 

The determination of these is often difficult. Many sub- 
stances, especially fats, assume conditions exhibiting abnormal 
melting-points, and also frequently solidify at a temperature 
very different from that at which they melt. If, in the prep- 
aration of any substance for determining its melting-point, it 
is necessary to make a previous fusion, the mass should be 
allowed to rest not less than 24 hours after solidification 
before making the experiment. Chemists disagree as to 
whether the melting-point should be considered to be that at 
which the substance begins to be liquid or that at which the 
liquid is perfectly clear. Ordinary thermometers are fre- 
quently inaccurate, the error amounting to a degree or more. 
No observations in which precision is required should be 
made with unverified instruments. 

The following method for determining melting-points is 



MKLTING AND SOLIHIFYINd 



suitable for many technical purposes. By substituting strong 
brine or glycerol for the water in the bath observations may 
be made at temj>eratures beyond the limits of o and 100 : 

The substance is heated to a temperature slightly above its 
fusing-point, drawn into a very narrow glass tube, and allowed 
to solidify for not less than 24 hours. The tube, open at 
both ends, is attached by a wire or rubber ring to a thermom- 
eter so that the part containing the substance is close to the 
bulb. The apparatus, immersed 
in water, is heated at a rate not 
exceeding 0.5 per minute until 
fusion takes place, when the tem- 
perature is noted. The tempera- 
ture is allowed to fall and the 
point at which the substance be- 
comes solid is also observed. 
To insure uniform and gradual 
heating, it is necessary to im- 
merse the vessel containing the 
thermometer and tube in an- 
other larger vessel filled with 
water. A. H. Allen suggests a 
flask of which the neck has been 
cut off, as shown in figure 7. A 

neater form of apparatus, from " Richter's Organic Chem- 
istry," is shown in figure 8 (p. 18). 

The two following methods are especially adapted to the 
examination of fats and waxes. The A. O. A. C. method dis- 
regards the abnormal condition of recently-solidified masses : 

A. O. A. C. Method. A mixture of alcohol and water of 
the same specific gravity as the sample is prepared in the fol- 
lowing manner : Separate portions of distilled water and 95 
IK T cent, alcohol are boiled for 10 minutes. The water is 
poured, while still hot, into the test-tube described below 




i8 



!<>. ih ANALYSIS 



until it is nearly half full. The test-tube is nearly filled with 
the hot alcohol, which is carefully poured down the side of 
the inclined tube to avoid too much mixing. If the alcohol 






FIG. 9. 



is added when water is cold, the mixture will contain air- 
bubbles and be unfit for use. 

The apparatus (Fig. 9) consists of: A thermometer reading 
easily and accurately to tenths of a degree ; a cathetometer 



Ml I IIMi AND SOLIDIFYING POINTS |g 

for reading tin- thermometer (this maybe substituted by an 
eyeglass if held steadily and properly adjusted); a thermom- 
eter ; a tall beaker 35 cm. high and 10 cm. in diameter ; a 
test-tube 30 cm. long and 3.5 cm. in diameter; a stand for 
supporting the apparatus ; some method of stirring the water 
in the beaker (for example, a rubber blowing-bulb and a glass 
tube extending to near the bottom of the beaker). 

The melted and filtered fat is allowed to fall from a drop- 
ping-tubc from a height of from i 5 to 20 cm. on a smooth 
piece of ice floating in recently-boiled distilled water. Disks 
from i to 1.5 cm. in diameter, and weighing about 200 mg., 
are formed. Pressing the ice under the water the disks float 
on the surface, and are easily removed with a steel spatula, 
cooled in the ice-water before using. The test-tube contain- 
ing the alcohol and water is placed in a tall beaker containing 
water and ice, until cold. The disk of fat is then dropped 
into the tube from the spatula and at once sinks to the part 
of the tube where the density of the diluted alcohol is exactly 
equivalent to its own. The delicate thermometer is placed 
in the test-tube and lowered until the bulb is just above the 
disk. In order to secure an even temperature in all parts of 
the alcohol mixture in the vicinity of the disk, the thermom- 
eter is u scil as a stirrer. The disk having been placed in posi- 
tion, the water in the beaker is slowly heated and kept con- 
stantly stirred by means of the blowing apparatus already 
described. When the temperature of the alcohol-water 
mixture rises to about 6 below the melting-point, the disk 
of fat begins to shrivel and gradually rolls up into an irreg- 
ular mass. The thermometer is lowered until the fat particle 
is even with the center of the bulb. The bulb of the ther- 
mometer should be small, so as to indicate only the tempera- 
ture of the mixture near the fat. A gentle rotatory mo 
ment should be given to the thermometer bulb. The rise of 
temperature should be so regulated that the last 2 of incre- 



2O FOOD ANALYSIS 

mcnt require about ten minutes. The mass of fat gradually 
approaches the form of a sphere, and when it is sensibly so 
the reading of the thermometer is taken. As soon as the 
temperature is taken the test-tube is removed from the bath 
and placed again in the cooler. A second tube, containing 
alcohol and water, is at once placed in the bath. The test- 
tube (ice-water having been used as a cooler) is of low enough 
temperature to cool the bath sufficiently. After the first de- 
termination, which should be only a trial, the temperature of 
the bath should be so regulated as to reach a maximum of 
about 1.5 above the melting-point of the fat under examina- 
tion. If the edge of the disk touches the sides of the tube 
a new trial should be made. Second and third results should 
show a near agreement. 

TITER-TEST. To eliminate error in determining melting- 
points of intimate mixtures, such as commercial fats and waxes, 
the titer-test, proposed by Delican, has been largely adopted. 

100 grams of the fat are saponified, the fatty acids separated 
by addition of acid, freed from water, filtered into a porcelain 
dish, and allowed to solidify overnight under a desiccator. 
The mass is then carefully melted in an air-bath and sufficient 
poured into a.test-tube 16 cm. long and 3.5 cm. in diameter 
to fill the tube a little more than half-full. The tube is then 
placed in a suitable flask, say of 2000 c.c. capacity, and a deli- 
cate thermometer, indicating one-fifth of a degree, inserted so 

that the bulb reaches the center of the mass. When a few 

* 

crystals appear at the bottom of the tube, the mass is stirred 
by giving the thermometer a rotatory movement, first three 
times from right to left, then three times from left to right, 
and then continuously, by a quick circular movement of the 
thermometer, without allowing it to touch the side of the ves- 
sel, but taking care that all solidifying portions, as they form, 
are well stirred in. The liquid will gradually become cloudy 
throughout, and the thermometer must be observed carefully. 



BOILING-POINT 



21 



At first the temperature will fall, but will soon rise suddenly 
a few tenths of a degree and reach a maximum at which it 
remains stationary for a short time before it falls again. This 
point is called the " titer " or solidifying point. 




' 



Boiling-point. 

For the determination of boiling-point the apparatus of 
M. Berthelot is convenient. Figure 10, from Traube's 
" Physico-Chemical Methods," shows the construction. The 
thermometer is inclosed in an 
outer tube, so that the portion of 
the scale to which the mercury rises 
is immersed in the vapor. If this 
be not done, a correction must be 
applied for the error produced by 
the cooling of the thermometer 
tube. The bulb of the thermome- 
ter does not reach into the liquid. 
A few fragments of pumice-stone 
or broken clay-pipe stems will'pre- 
vent bumping. The exit-tube at 
the lower end of the wide tube 
connects with a condenser. The 
apparatus of O. Schumann (Fig. 
1 1 ) is made entirely of glass and is 
constructed on the same principle. 
The barometric pressure must al- 
ways be noted and allowance made 

for the variation from the standard pressure, 760 mm. I he 
correction may be made by the following formula : 

B = B 1 -f 0.0375 (760?) ; in which 
B is the boiling-point at normal pri-Mirc, 
H 1 the observed boiling-point, 
P the observed pressure in millinieiei!>. 





FIG. io. 



Kic. II. 



22 FOOD ANALYSIS 

For an apparatus designed for special boiling-point observa- 
tions see under " Alcoholic Beverages." 

Polarimetry. 

Polarimeters are instruments used to measure the extent 
and direction of the rotation of the plane of polarized light. 
They consist essentially of a Nicol's prism as polarizer, a tube 
carrying the substance to be tested, and a second Nicol's 
prism, or analyzer, by which the extent of rotation is meas- 
ured. In all forms some condition of the field of vision 
is fixed upon as the zero point and the rotation of the analyzer 
or other manipulation necessary to restore this standard field 
affords the measurement of the rotation caused by the inter- 
posed substance. Several types of instrument have been 
devised, of which two are most important. In one form, de- 
vised by Soleil, white light is used and a colored field, known 
as the transition tint, is taken as the zero point. In the other 
type white light or monochromatic (yellow) light is used and 
the zero point determined by equalizing the brightness of the 
field. Instruments of the first form are unsatisfactory by 
reason of the difference in susceptibility in the eyes of differ- 
ent persons to color-contrasts. The instruments of the second 
type, commonly designated sliadoiv instruments, are now much 
more generally employed ; they have been brought of late 
years to a high degree of accuracy and convenience. 

In the Laurent apparatus, 1 shown in figure 12, the mono- 
chromatic light passes through the collimating lens A and is 
polarized by the Nicol's prism B, which is so placed that it may 
be moved, on its axis, over a small arc by means of the lever 
C and clamped at any point ; by this the brightness of the 
field may be varied and the sensitiveness of the instrument in- 
creased or diminished as may be needed. The polarized beam 
then passes through a quartz plate of even thickness, cut ex- 
actly parallel to the optic axis, and placed so that it covers a 



I'd \KI\II.I \<\ 21 

>emicircle of the field. At the other end of the apparatus is 
the analyzing prism K and the eye-piece F fixed to a graduated 
disk. This combination can be rotated upon its axis in a com- 
plete circle. Attached arms carry view-lenses for reading the 
angle of rotation, and the instrument is set at zero by an in- 
dependent adjustment by which the analyzing prism is rotated 
without disturbing the position of the graduated disk. Ver- 
niers are provided for close measurement. The monochro- 




matic light must be obtained from a sodium flame, since the 
thickness of the quartz plate is adjusted to these ray-. 

In use, the tube is filled with water, the instrument directed 
to the source of light, and the adjusting milled head turned 
until the disk is set at zero. The two portions of the field 
should now appear equally illuminated. If this is not the case, 
the position of the analy/.er must be altered by means of the 
independent adjustment, the index remaining undisturbed at 
the zero point. The exact adjustment to /en> is often tedious. 



POLAKIMETKY 25 

and if desired a rough adjustment may be made, a number 
of readings taken and averaged, and the subsequent determina- 
tion corrected accordingly. 

The tube is filled with the liquid to be tested and again 
placed in the instrument. If optically active, the plane of the 
polarized light will be rotated and one-half of the field of 
observation will appear darker. The extent of rotation, which 
will depend upon the nature of the substance and its amount, 
is measured by rotating the analyzer to the right or left, as 
the case may be, until the halves of the field become equally 
illuminated. The recorded reading should be the average of 
a number of observations, correction being made, if necessary, 
for the true position of the zero. Greater sensitiveness is 
attained by dividing the field concentrically. This is accom- 
plished by fastening a small circle of quartz in the center of a 
glass diaphragm. An instrument of this form is now made 
by a Berlin firm. 

Most instruments are furnished with two scales, one express- 
ing angular degrees and the other percentage of cane-sugar. 
The latter registers 100 when a given quantity of the sugar 
has been dissolved in water and made up to 100 c.c. The 
normal weight is given elsewhere. 

The above form of Laurent instrument can be employed to 
measure the rotatory power of all classes of substances, but 
the forms next to be described give accurate indications only 
with substances which have the same dispersive power as 
quartz, unless monochromatic light be used. In the Schmidt 
and Hansch instrument (Fig. 13) the division of the field is 
obtained by a special construction of the polarizing prism and 
the restoration is accomplished by the adjustment of compen- 
sating quartz-wedges constructed so as to produce in the zero 
position no rotation. When an optically active substance is 
interposed in the path of the ray, one of the quartz-wedges 
must be moved to an extent sufficient to overcome this rota- 
3 



26 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



tion in order to restore the standard field. The effect is de- 
pendent upon the fact that by this movement the thickness of 
the quartz is increased or diminished until it compensates for 




FIG. 14. 



the rotation produced by the solution. The extent of move- 
ment of the quartz is registered upon a linear scale, which is 
read by means of a lens and vernier. White light is employed 



POLAKIMETKV 27 

in making the observations. A form of the I^aurcnt instru- 
ment, with quartz-wedge compensation, and employing white 
light, is in.ide. An instrument has been devised in which the 
field is divided vertically into three zones, the central one 
being a broad band. Duplicate Nicol prisms are so arranged 
that the lateral zones agree in tint, thus making stronger con- 
trast with the central zone (Fig. 13). 

It is often desirable, especially in the examination of sugars, 
to make the observation at a temperature above the normal. 
For this purpose the polarimcter of Chandler and Ricketts 
may be employed. (Fig. 14.) The observation tube is pro- 
vided with a thermometer 
and surrounded by water, 
which may be heated to the 
desired point. I^andolt has 
described an improved form, 
in which the observation may 
be readily taken at low tem- 
peratures. For a temperature 
o the tube is surrounded by 
melting ice. A special feature 
of the apparatus is an arrange- j.-, G t , 

ment by which the deposition 

of moisture on the end glasses is prevented. This is accom- 
plished by providing a closed space at each end in which a 
small amount of calcium chlorid is placed. The apparatus is 
shown in figure 15. 

Sources of Light. For white light oil, gas, or electric lamps 
are employed, of which numerous patterns are furnished. Sat- 
isfactory results may be obtained by the Welsbach lamp. 
H. W. Wiley recommends the use of the acetylene flame, 
especially for deeply colored solutions. 

For monochromatic light the lamp usually employed is 
a Hunsen burner with a ledge at the top for holding some 




28 FOOD ANALYSIS 

solid sodium compound. A fused mixture of sodium chlorid 
and phosphate is better than sodium chlorid alone. The fol- 
lowing is an excellent method for obtaining a steady, strong, 
yellow light : Strips of common filter-paper 5 cm. wide and 
about 50 cm. long are soaked in a strong solution of sodium 
chlorid and thiosulfate, dried, and rolled into a hollow cylin- 
der of such size as to fit firmly on the top of the Bunsen 
burner. The cylinder is kept from unrolling by a few turns 
of fine iron wire. The flame burns at the top of the cylinder, 
giving for the first few minutes -a luminous cone, but soon 
becoming pure yellow. The cylinder becomes a friable 
charred mass, but if not disturbed may be used for some time 
continuously or at intervals. 

SPECIFIC ROTATORY POWER. The specific rotatory power 
of a substance is the amount of rotation, in angular degrees, 
produced by a solution containing one gram of the substance 
in I c.c. examined in a column one decimeter long. It is 
usually represented by the symbol [] . Allen has suggested 
the letter S as more appropriate. To indicate the light 
employed in the observation, S D or Sj is used. D stands for 
light of wave length corresponding to the D line of the solar 
spectrum (sodium flame) and j (j'autie) for the transition tint, 
which in the case of sugar solutions furnishes results corre- 
sponding to the " mean yellow ray." It is usual also to 
indicate in the same symbol the temperature of observation ; 
thus, S. 

Under ordinary methods of observation the specific rota- 
tory power is represented by the following formula : 



in which 



S is the specific rotatory power for the light of the sodium flame, 
a is the angular rotation observed, 

c is the concentration expressed in grams per 100 c.c. of liquid, 
/ is the length of the tube in decimeters. 



I'M VKIMKTRY 2Q 

( 'oinparison of Scales of \ "arious Instruments. Polarimctcrs 
.IK usually provided with a special scale, reading to 100 when 
a certain quantity of cane-sugar, called the normal weight, is 
dissolved in water and made up to 100 c.c. For the German 
instruments, which are largely used in the United States, this 
is 26.048 grams. 

The instruments made by Schmidt and Hansch are gradu- 
ated to read correct percentages when the normal weight of 
sugar is contained in 100 Mohr's cubic centimeters and ob- 
served in a 2 decimeters tube at 17.5. With the I^aurent 
apparatus the normal weight of the sugar should be contained 
in 100 true cubic centimeters. 

The volume of 100 Mohr's cubic centimeters is that of 
100 grams of water at 17.5 weighed in air with brass 
weights ; it is equal to 100.234 true cubic centimeters. For 
the normal weight of 26.048 grams in 100 Mohr's cubic centi- 
meters of solution, may be substituted 25.9872 grams in 100 
true cubic centimeters at 17.5. 

At the session of the International Commission for Uniform 
Methods of Sugar Analysis -held at Paris, July 24, 1900, it 
was agreed that the normal weight shall be fixed at 26 grams 
in 100 true c.c. at 20, weighed in air with brass weights (see 
under " Sucrose "). 

The following factors may be employed for the conversion 
of data obtained by different instruments : 2 

division Schmidt and Hansch 0.3468 angular rotation D. 

angular rotation D 2.8835 divisions Schmidt and Hansch. 

division Schmidt and Hftnsch 2.6048 divisions Wild (sugar scale), 

division Wild (sugar scale) 0.3840 division Schmidt and H.lnsch. 

division Wild (sugar scale) 0.1331 angular rotation D. 

angular rotation I) 0.7511 division Wild (sugar scale), 

division Laurent (sugar scale) 0.2167 angular rotation I) 

angular rotation D 4 6154 divisions Laurent (sugar scale). 

Correction for Precipitate. In some cases the volume of 
precipitate produced by the clarifying agents is considerable, 



ANALYSIS 



and a correction would be necessary. The error may be 
eliminated by Scheibler's method : A normal weight of the 
sample is dissolved in water or proper solvent, treated with 
the clarifying agent, the liquid made up to 100 c.c., shaken 
well, filtered, and a reading taken of the filtrate. A second 
portion of normal weight is treated in the same way except 

that it is made up to 200 c.c. be- 
fore filtration. Great care must 
be taken in the readings. The 
true reading is obtained by dividing 
the product of the two readings 
by their difference. 

Spectroscopy. 

In practical analysis the spec- 
troscope is mostly useful in detect- 
ing some of the rarer elements 
in ashes and water-residues. For 
this purpose the direct vision in- 
strument shown in figure 16 is 
sufficient. It will often serve for 
the examination of absorption 
bands, but for precise research in 
distinguishing colors and specific 
absorptions a more elaborate in- 
strument, as shown in figure 17, 
will be needed. Those now manufactured have either a com- 
parison scale or the view-tube moves over a graduated arc so 
as to determine and record the position of any line or band. 

For the examination of ashes or water-residues the material 
is mixed with a few drops of hydrochloric acid, a portion of 
the mass taken up on a loop of clean platinum wire and held 
in a non-luminous flame, the spectrum being examined through 
the instrument. It is important that the first effects should 




FIG. 16. 



in -OKI- - i:\CF. 31 

be noted, as some substances volatilixe quickly. The platinum 
wire should be cleaned by dipping it in a little pure hydro- 
chloric acid and heating it in the gas flame until it imparts no 
color thereto. 

For the observation of absorption-bands of liquids, small 
flat bottles with ground and polished sides are used. These 
permit the observation of a thin or thick stratum as de/ired. 
Deeply colored solutions should not be used since large por- 
tions of the spectrum may be cut out by generak*pk6rption 
and the distinctive selective absorption be lost. : 




Fie. 17. 



For some purposes the microspectroscope will be 
but its use is practically limited to medico-legal work. 

Fluorescence. 

This may be detected satisfactorily in the manner described 
by A. H. Allen : A test-tube or cylindrical beaker is 'nearly, 
filled with a perfectly clear solution of the substance, set upon 
a dark surface, and observed from above. Another pi. in i- 
make a streak of the liquid on a piece of black glass or pol- 
ished black marble and examine this in a good \\hite light, 
ta can also be made by directing a ray of white light from 



32 FOOD ANALYSIS 

any source through the side of a beaker containing the liquid 
and looking at it from above. In all the methods the liquid 
must be perfectly clear or misleading reflection -effects are pro- 
duced. 

Microscopy. 

For preliminary examination of food samples a hand lens 
is useful, but the practical analysis involves the use of the 
compound microscope. A good instrument can now be ob- 
tained at comparatively small cost. It should be supplied 
with at least two objectives, one of quite low 'power, about 
13 mm. focus (^ in.), and one of rather high power, 5 mm. 
focus (^ in.). For some examinations, especially for the 
detection of bacteria, an immersion-lens is needed. This is 
costly and requires special care in manipulation. The useful- 
ness of a microscope is much enhanced by the attachment of 
a sub-stage achromatic condenser and adjustable diaphragm. 
Polarizing apparatus is needed especially for differentiation of 
starches. 

The instrument, shown in figure 18 is of American con- 
struction, is of moderate price, and arranged to receive all 
accessories. The triple nose-piece, though not necessary, 
is convenient. 

For the better differentiation of objects submitted to ex- 
amination under the microscope, clearing and staining agents 
are used. In many cases details of structure are brought out 
sharply by using a dense liquid as a mounting fluid. The 
following is a list of the important apparatus and reagents : 

Slides and cmer-glasscs. 

Agate mortar, 2.5 cm. outside diameter, and a somewhat 
larger glass triturating mortar are useful for preparing mate- 
rials. The pestles of agate mortars are usually inconveniently 
short, and are much improved by being mounted in a wooden 
handle. 



MICKOM on 



Dissecting nccd/cs are easily made by sawing off the metal 
portion of an ordinary penholder close to the wood and forc- 
ing the eye-end of a sewing needle under the ferule which has 




Fir, 1 8. 



been thus formed. Figure 19 shows a neat form of a needle- 
holder furnished by the instrument makers. 



Fie. 10. 



34 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



Small forceps and sharp scissors will be needed. 

Capped bottles provided with pipets, as shown in figure 20, 
are convenient for holding reagents. 

Watch-glasses are used for immersing specimens in liquids ; 
still better are the Syracuse glasses, shown in figure 21. The 
best form of these has a ground-glass surface for entering 
memoranda. 

Water. Distilled water is best, but any clear, colorless 
water not containing much mineral or organic matter will 
answer. 





FIG. 20. 

Glycerol. A pure article is easily obtained. 

Alcohol. The commercial 95 per cent, form is used for 
hardening tissues, but for ordinary microscopic work, a 70 
per cent, solution will suffice. 

Methyl alcohol in the purified form now obtainable may be 
substituted in many instances for common alcohol. 

Ether, chloroform, benzene, and carbon disulfid are occasion- 
ally used for their solvent action, especially to remove oils, 
waxes, and resins. For these extractions it will often be 
most satisfactory to operate in a small continuous extraction 



MICROSCOPE 35 

apparatus, with repeated washings, as described under " Fix- 
traction," and drying the material at a gentle heat to get rid 
of all the solvent, which would interfere with the action of 
watery solutions or glycerol. 

Chloral hydrate solution, a saturated solution in water. 

Cliloral hydrate and iodin solution, a portion of the above 
solution to which a trace of iodin has been added. 

Potassium iodid and iodin solution, potassium, 0.4 gram ; 
iodin, o.i gram ; water, 20 c.c. 

Zinc cltloriodid and iodin solution : Dissolve 5 grams of zinc 
chlorid and 1.6 gram of potassium iodid in 1 7 c.c. of water and 
saturate with iodin. 

Sodium hydroxid, 5 per cent, solution. In some instances 
a strong solution is employed, which is best prepared when 
required. 

Add pliloroglucol. This is best prepared when needed by 
dissolving a few milligrams in I c.c. of alcohol and adding a 
drop of hydrochloric acid. 



36 FOOD ANALYSIS 

CHEMICAL DATA 
Water and Fixed Solids (Extract). 

Water is usually determined with sufficient accuracy, pro- 
vided other volatile bodies are not present, by heating the 
material (in the case of solids it should be finely divided) in a 
flat dish on the water-bath or in the water-oven until it ceases 
to lose weight. The residue constitutes the fixed solids or 
extract. Flat platinum dishes from 4 to 8 cm. in diameter 
and 0.5 cm. high are well adapted to this work. They should 
rest on porcelain or asbestos rings when being heated. Nickel 
dishes are often applicable, especially the broad shallow cruci- 
ble covers made in dish form. Dishes of glass, porcelain, 
and aluminum are less suitable. In many cases drying will 
be much facilitated by using an absorbent material such as 
pure quartz sand, powdered asbestos, or pumice-stone. These 
materials should be extracted with dilute hydrochloric acid, 
well washed, and well dried before use. The quantity used 
should be rapidly weighed, preferably in the dish in which the 
operation is to be carried out. It is advisable to cover the 
dish with a nearly flat, thin watch-glass in all the weighings. 
By a few trials a glass can be selected which fits fairly close 
to the rim of the dish and restricts evaporation or absorp- 
tion of water. It is often convenient to weigh a small stir- 
ring-rod with the dish and absorbent. 

In many cases liquid can be measured directly into the 
dish, the residue being recorded in grains per 100 c.c. or 
other suitable ratio. 

Sirupy and gelatinous liquids or those containing'much solid 
matter, especially if this be somewhat difficult to dry, may 
often be more satisfactorily treated by diluting a weighed 
portion with several times its weight of water, evaporating a 
measured or weighed amount of the dilute liquid, and calcu- 
lating the amount of residue in the original substance. 



" \\ATKK ANI> I IXKI) S()I.II>S 



37 



Tin- ordinan- water-bath and water-oven need no descrip- 
tion. The temperature of materials heated on the former is 
usually much less than 100 ; in the latter, slightly below 
100. By using strong brine a somewhat higher temperature 
may be obtained. In the case of very hygroscopic or easily 




FIG. 22. 



decomposable bodies it may be necessary to dry in a current 
of hydrogen or at reduced pressure. 

Figure 22 shows a drying oven for use with a current of 
hydrogen. The apparatus was designed by Caldwell for 
determining moisture, ether-extract, and crude fiber as prc- 

ibed by the A. < ). A. C, the three data being determined 
on tin- same sample. 



38 FOOD ANALYSIS 

The bath is made of copper and is 24 cm. long, 15 high, 
and 8.5 broad. It stands in a piece of sheet-copper bent at 
right angles along the sides, as shown in the end view ; on 
one side this vertical part need not be over I cm. high, just 
enough to project a little up the side of the bath, which rests 
snugly against it ; along the other side it projects upward, at 
a little distance from the side of the bath, about 15 mm., and 
to about the height of 4 cm. ; opposite each of the tubes of 
the bath a slot is cut in this vertical part, which serves then as 
a shoulder against which the glass tube rests when in place, to 
keep it from slipping down and out of position. 

The tube for containing the substance has at the zone a 
three small projections on the inner surface, which support 
a perforated platinum disk of rather heavy platinum foil carry- 
ing the asbestos filter. This tube is 13 cm. long and 23 mm. 
inner diameter, and weighs, with its closed stoppers, about 
30 grams. 

The filter is readily made in the same manner as the Gooch 
filter, the tube being first fitted to a suction flask by an en- 
largement of one of the holes of the rubber cork, or, better 
still, by slipping a short piece of rubber tube over it, of such 
thickness that it'will fit tightly in the mouth of a suction flask 
provided with lateral tube for connection with the suction. A 
thin welt of asbestos is sufficient ; if it is too thick, the gas 
and ether will not flow through readily. 

About 2 grams of the substance are put in this tube, pre- 
viously weighed with the stoppers b and c, and the weight of 
the substance accurately determined by weighing tube and 
contents. The stoppers are removed, a band of thin asbestos 
paper is wound around the end d of the tube, a little behind 
the slight shoulder at the rim, as many times as may be 
necessary to make a snug fit, when this tube is slid down into 
the copper tube in the bath, thus preventing circulation of air 
between the glass and the copper tubes that would retard the 



WATER AND FIXED SOLIDS 39 

heating of the former ; the stopper e is put in the lower end 
of the tube for connection with the hydrogen supply, and the 
stopper / in the upper end ; this latter stopper is connected 
by rubber tube with a glass tube slipping easily through one 
of the holes of a rubber cork closing a small flask containing 
a uttle sulfuric acid, into which this tube just dips; when as 
many tubes as are to be charged are thus arranged in place 
and the hydrogen is turned on, the even flow of the current 
through the whole number is secured by raising or lowering 
a very little the several tubes through which the outflow 
passes, so as to get a little more back pressure for one, or a 
little less for another, as may be found necessary. When the 
drying is supposed to be completed, the tubes are weighed 
again with their closed stoppers, and so on. 

For ether-extraction the unstoppcred tube with contents is 
put directly into the extractor. 

Carr and Osborne have made an extended series of inves- 
tigations as to the determination of water, and find that more 
accurate results may be obtained if the operation be conducted 
under a diminished pressure at a temperature not exceeding 
70 C. Under these conditions it was found possible to 
dehydrate levulose completely, without decomposition. The 
oven is made of a section of metal tubing, from I 5 to 20 cm. 
in diameter and 30 to 40 cm. long. One end is -closed air- 
tight by a brass end-piece, brazed or attached by a screw. 
The other end is detachable and is made air-tight by ground 
surfaces and a soft washer. On the upper longitudinal 
surfaces are apertures for the insertion of a vacuum-gauge 
and for attachment to a vacuum-apparatus, thermostat and 
thermometer. The aperture for admission of air or hydrogen 
is best placed at the fixed end. The oven may be heated by 
a single burner, but a series of small jets extending along the 
( entire length of the oven is preferable. The flame should 
not be allowed to strike the cylinder directly ; the latter 



4O 1 001) ANALYSIS 

should be protected by sheet asbestos'. The temperature of 
the oven can be kept practically constant by means of the gas 
regulator, or by attention to the lamp. 

The method of operating is as follows : Clean pumice-stone 
of two grades of fineness is used, one that just passes through 
a i mm. mesh and one that passes through a 6 mm. mesh. 
These are digested with hot 2 per cent, sulfuric acid, washed 
by decantation until the wash-water is free from acid, placed, 
wet, in a sand crucible and heated to redness. When die 
water is expelled, the material may either be placed hot into a 
desiccator or directly into the drying dishes. In loading the 
dishes, place a thin layer of the dust over the bottom of the 
dish to prevent the material to be dried from coming in con- 
tact with the metal ; over this layer place the larger particles, 
nearly filling the dish. If the stone has been well washed, 
no harm may result from placing the dish and stone over the 
flame for a moment before transferring to the desiccator pre- 
paratory to weighing. 

If the material to be dried is dense, it is diluted until the 
specific gravity is in the neighborhood of 1.08 by dissolving a 
weighed quantity in a weighed quantity of water. (Alcohol 
may be substituted in material not precipitable thereby.) Of 
this, 2 to 3 grams may be distributed over the stone in a dish 
the area of which is in the neighborhood of 20 sq. cm., or one 
gram for each 7 sq. cm. of area. The material is distributed 
uniformly over the pumice by means of a pipet weighing- 
bottle (weighing direct upon pumice will not answer), ascer- 
taining the weight taken by difference. 

The dishes are placed in the vacuum-oven, which should be 
maintained at a pressure of not more than 125 mm. of mer- 
cury. The form of the oven is not material if the moisture 
escapes freely by passing a slow current of dried air beneath 
the shelf supporting the dishes. The temperature must not 
exceed about 70. All weighings must be taken with the 



\IIK.KiKN 4' 

dish covered by a close- fitting plate. The oj>en dish must 
nt be exposed to the air longer than absolutely necessaiy. 
Weighings may be made at intervals of two or three hours. 

In the laboratory of the United States Geological Survey s 
a sheet-iron or nickel basin about 10 cm. in diameter and 3 
cm. deep is set upon an iron plate which is heated directly by 
the burner. A platinum or pipe-clay triangle rests in the 
basin and supports the dish containing the liquid to be 
evaporated. It is stated that almost any liquid can be 
evaporated in this way without sputtering. The temperature, 
however, is liable to be too high for many organic solutions. 

C. C. Parsons has obtained good results in the drying of 
sensitive organic substances by the following method : A 
perfectly neutral petroleum oil, free from animal or vegeta- 
ble oils and mineral substances, sp. gr. 0.920, flash test 224, 
fire test 260, boiling-point about 288, is heated to about 
i 20 for some time and preserved in a well-stoppered vessel. 
A quantity of oil about six times that of the weight of the 
substance to be dried is 'heated in an evaporating dish in a 
drying oven to a temperature of 115, and then weighed. 
The weighed portion of the substance is put into the oil ; if it 
be very moist, it is added in small portions. Slight efferves- 
cence will usually occur, and the mass should be kept in the 
drying oven for a short time after effervescence has ceased. 
The evaporating dish containing the oil and substance is 
weighed ; the loss is moisture. The whole operation may be 
completed in less than half an hour. 

Nitrogen. 

TOTAL NITROGEN. The Kjeldahl-Gunning method is the 
most satisfactory. 

The reagents and operation are as follows : 

]\>t t issimn Snlftiti. A coarsely powdered form free from 
nitrates and chlorids should be selected. 



42 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Strong Sulfuric Acid. This should have a sp. gr. 1.84 and 
be free from nitrates and ammonium. 

Standard Acid. 2 Sulfuric or hydrochloric acid, the 
strength of which has been accurately determined by barium 
chlorid or silver nitrate as required. 

Standard Alkali. o Ammonium hydroxid, sodium hy~ 
droxid, or barium hydroxid, the strength of which in relation 
to the standard acid must be accurately determined. 

Strong Sodium Hydroxid Solution. 500 grams should be 
added to 500 c.c. of water, the mixture allowed to stand 
until the undissolved matter settles, the clear liquor decanted 
and kept in a stoppered bottle. It will be an advantage to 
determine approximately the quantity of this solution required 
to neutralize 20 c.c. of the strong sulfuric acid. 

Indicator. Cochineal solution is recommended by the A. 
O. A. C., but methyl-orange is quite satisfactory. Phenol- 
phthalein is not well adapted to titration of ammonium com- 
pounds. (See under " Indicators.") 

Digestion Flasks. Pear-shaped round-bottomed flasks of 
hard, moderately thick, well-annealed glass, about 22 cm. 
long, maximum diameter of 6 cm., tapering gradually to a 
long neck, 2 cm. in diameter at the narrowest part, and 
slightly flared at the mouth. 

Distillation Flasks. Ordinary flasks of about 550 c.c. ca- 
pacity. A copper flask, such as sometimes used in the manu- 
facture of oxygen, may be substituted. 

Combined Digestion and Distillation Flasks. Hard, well- 
annealed, round-bottomed glass flasks with a bulb 12.5 cm. 
long and 9 cm. in diameter, the neck cylindrical, I 5 cm. long 
and 3 cm. in diameter, flared slightly at the mouth. 

Condenser and Receiver. A tube of about I cm. caliber 
passes through a rubber stopper and is cut off obliquely at 
the lower end. This tube has a bulb about 4 cm. diameter, 
the exit tube of which is constructed so as to prevent any 



NITRm.l \ 



43 



liquid that may be thrown into the bulb passing into the con- 
drnsing tube. The condensing tube is led through a cooling 
apparatus and is joined to another bulb-tube, the lower end of 
which dips below the standard acid in the receiving flask. 




23. 




FIG. 24. 



The condensing-tube should be block-tin, circumference 
about 3.5 cm., and at least 50 cm. should be in contact with 
the cooling water. The delivery tube should slope down 
toward the flask and may be connected flush with the con- 
denser tube by a close-fitting rubber tube, but it will be better 



44 FOOD ANALYSIS 

if the tin tube is enlarged so as to receive the glass for a 
couple of centimeters. The lower end of the condensing 
tube is extended by means of a glass tube and rubber con- 
nected or by the attachment shown in figure 23 so as to 
lead the distilled liquid into the acid in the receiver. Many 
operators arrange to allow the lower end of the delivery tube 
to dipt)elow the level of the liquid in the receiver. If this 
be done, the tube must be provided with a bulb to avoid the 
danger of suction if the boiling happens to be interrupted. 
About 20 c.c. of standard acid is placed in the receiver. 

A special arrangement is shown in figure 23. The sodium 
hydroxid solution is introduced through the stopcock, and 
the distillation carried on by a current of steam obtained from 
the metal vessel which is shown provided with a water-level 
indicator, a safety-pipe, and a delivery-pipe. The indicator is 
not necessary if care be taken to keep the boiler filled with 
water. The safety-pipe should pass nearly to the bottom 
of the boiler. If obstruction occurs in the distilling or con- 
densing apparatus, hot water maybe thrown out of the boiler, 
hence provision must be made to avoid damage from this 
cause. The distilling-flask does not need to be directly 
heated. 

Figure 24 shows a compact apparatus devised by H. 
Comer for these distillations, but applicable also to other 
similar operations. 

For other distilling apparatus see under " Distillation." 

Process. 0.7 to 3.5 grams, according to the proportion of 
nitrogen, are placed in a digestion flask. Then 10 grams of 
powdered potassium sulfate and I 5 to 25 c.c. (ordinarily about 
20 c.c.) of the strong sulfuric acid are added and the diges- 
tion conducted as follows : The flask is placed in an inclined 
position and heated below the boiling-point of the acid for 
from five to fifteen minutes, or until frothing has ceased. Kx- 
cessive frothing may be prevented by the addition of a small 



NITROGEN 45 

piece of paraffin. The heat is raised until the acid boils 
briskly. No further attention is required until the liquid has 
become clear and colorless, or not deeper than a pale straw. 
A small, short-stemmed funnel may be placed in the mouth 
of the flask to restrict the circulation of air. 

The flask is then removed from the flame, allowed to cool, 
diluted with 100 c.c. of water if the smaller form of flask has 
been used, the liquid transferred to the distilling flask, and the 
digestion flask rinsed with two portions of water, 50 c.c. each, 
which are also transferred to the distilling flask. With the 
larger form of flask the dilution is made at once by the cau- 
tious addition of 200 c.c of water. Granulated zinc, pumice- 
stone, or 0.5 gram of zinc dust is added. 50 c.c. of the strong 
sodium hydroxid solution, or sufficient to make the reaction 
strongly alkaline, should be slowly poured down the side ot 
the flask so as not to mix at once with the acid solution. It 
is convenient to add to the acid liquid a few drops of phenol- 
phthalein solution, which will indicate when the liquid be- 
comes alkaline, but it must be borne in mind that strong 
alkaline solutions destroy this indicator. Connect the flask 
with the condenser, mix the contents by shaking, and distil 
until all ammonia has passed into the standard acid. The 
first 150 c.c. of the distillate will generally contain all the am- 
monia, and should require from 40 minutes to 90 minutes. 
The distillate is titrated with standard alkali and the amount 
of acid which has been neutralized by the distillate calculated 
as ammonia or its equivalent in nitrogen. 

If nitrates be present in the material to be analyzed, the 
following modification in the process must be made : The 
weighed material is well mixed with 35 c.c. of sulfuric acid 
containing 2 per cent., by weight, of salicylic acid, and the 
mass shaken frequently during ten minutes; 5 grams of 
sodium thiosulfate are added and 10 grams of potassium sul- 
fatc. The- mixture is heated very gently until frothing 



46 FOOD ANALYSIS 

and then according to the usual method. The ammonia in 
the distillate will include that derived from the nitrogen of the 
nitrate^, 

ALBUMINOID NITROGEN. Stutzer's method for this deter- 
mination requires a special reagent, as follows : 

Copper Hydroxid Mixture. 100 grams of copper sulfate 
are dissolved in 5000 c.c. of water, 25 c.c. of glycerol added, 
and then a dilute solution of sodium hydroxid until the liquid 
is alkaline. The mass is filtered, the precipitate is mixed well 
with water containing 5 c.c. of glycerol per 1000 c.c. and 
washed until the washings are no longer alkaline. It is then 
rubbed up with a mixture of 90 per cent, water and 10 per 
cent, glycerol in sufficient quantity to obtain a uniform magma 
that can be measured with a pipet. The quantity of copper 
hydroxid per c.c. should be determined. It should be kept 
in a well-closed bottle. 

Analytic Method. A suitable amount of the material, gen- 
erally about 0.7 gram, is Heated with 100 c.c. of water to 
1 00, and a quantity of the copper hydroxid mixture containing 
about 0.5 gram of solid added, stirred well, allowed to cool, 
filtered, washed well with cold water, and the filter and pre- 
cipitate treated by the Kjeldahl-Gunning method. 

Substances rich in starch are best subjected to about ten 
minutes' warming in the water-bath instead of direct boiling. 
With substances containing much soluble phosphates a few 
cubic centimeters of alum solution should be well stirred in 
before adding the copper hydroxid. 

Crude Fiber. 

The A. O. A. C. method, Msed by many American chemists. 
is substantially as follows : L\ grams of the substance, well 
extracted with ordinary ether (s ; je under " Extraction " ), arc 
mixed in a 500 c.c. flask with 200 c.c. of boiling water con- 
taining 1.25 per cent, of sulfuric acid, the flask is connected 






with .111 inverted condenser, the tube of whieli p.i^-es ^'iily a 
short distance below tfR rubber stopj>er of the fla*k. The 
liquid is brought to the boiling-point as rapidly 
and maintained there for 30 minutes. A blast of air 
into the lla>k may serve to reduce the fro^iig of the liquid. 
The m.iss is filtered, washed thorouglily^with boiling water 
until the washings are no longer acid^J^g u'udissolved sub- 
stance rinsed back into the same flask with the- aid of 2OO c.c. 
of boiling water containing 1.25 per cent, 'sodium hydroxid. 
nearly free from sodium carbonate ; again brought to the 
boiling-point rapidly and maintained there for 30 minute 
directed above. The liquid is filtered by means of a Gooch 
crucible ; washed with boiling water until the washings are 
neutral to phenolphthalein ; dried at 1 10; weighed and incin- 
erated completely. The loss of weight is crude fiber. 

The filters used for the first filtration may be linen, glass, 
wool, asbestos, or any form that secures clear and reasonably 
rapid filtration. Hardened filters" may also serve. The sul- 
fuiic acid and sodium hydroxid are nearly N , and are to be 
made up of the specified strength, determined by titration. 

Man\' analysts use stronger solutions. O. Hehner u 
per cent, acid and alkali. It would be converrcnt if normal 
sulfuric acid and ivmnal sodium hydroxid were adopted as 
standards. 

Crude fiber should not be called cellulose. 

Ash. 

The ash of food materials may usually be determined by 
heating several grams in a platinum <>r porcelain crucible at a 
low red heat. Higher temperature may cause lo>s of volatile 
salt> .. -., chlorids. If a white ah cannot be obtained thus, 
the material should be heated only to a tcmjieratiire sufficient 
to i . harring, the charred mas-, thoroughly extracted 

uith water, and the insoluble m. liter collected on a filler, 



48 !()()!) ANAI.VSIS 

which^may then be returned to the crucible and ashed. '!'> 
this residue the filtrate containing the soluble matter is now 
added^he liquid evaporated to dryness, heated to low red- 
ness^^led, and weighed. 

A muffle, heated by gas, will often be very useful in the 
incineration of orgmiic bodies. A light draught of air should 
be maintained durirf^kthe operation. 

Ash Soluble in Wafer. The ash obtained above is treated 
with boiling water, the solution filtered through an ashless 
filter, and the filter and contents again ignited and weighed. 
The soluble ash is determined by difference. If desired, the 
filtrate may be filtered to dryness; heated just below redness, 
and weighed. The method first mentioned is the most con- 
venient. 

Alkalinity of Soluble Ash. This is determined by titrating 
the soluble ash with standard acid, using methyl-orange as 
indicator. The alkalinity is usually expressed in terms of 
potassium oxid. 

Ash Insoluble in Acid. The residue insoluble in water is 
treated with hydrochloric acid and the portion undissolved 
is well washed on the filter with water, dried, ignited, and 
weighed. 

The ash oifats is conveniently determined by the following 
method : A weighed quantity is melted in a platinum dish, and 
a small filter, free from ash, is folded in four, placed upright 
in the melted fat, and lighted. The fat is quickly burnt off. 

The following is a compilation of various methods proposed for the determina- 
tion of the ash of sugars, Molasses, honeys, etc., given by the A. O. A. C. : 

(i) 5 to 10 grams of the material are heated in a platinum dish of from 50 to ico 
c.c. capacity at 100 until the water is expelled, and then slowly over a flame until 
intumescence ceases. The dish is placed in a muffle and heated at low redness 
until a white ash is obtained. If the substance contain iron or any other metal 
capable of uniting with platinum, a dish of some other material must be used. 
For soluble ash the ash obtained as above is digested with water, filtered through 
a Gooch crucible, washed with hot water, and the residue dried at 100 and 
weighed. The difference of weights equal* the soluble ash. 



I \IK.\cTION WITH M I SCI li LK SOLVENTS j. ( 

I o 25 grains of molasses or 50 grains of sugar, 50 rag. of zinc oxid arc 
a<l<led, and the mass incorporated thoroughly by adding dilute alcohol and mix- 
ing. It is then dried and ignited as alwve. The weight of zinc oxid is deducted 
from the weight of the ash. 

(3) The mass is carbonized at low heat, the soluble salts dissolved with hot 
water, the residual mass burned, the solution *of soluble salts added, and evapo- 
rated to dryness at loo, ignited gently, cooled in a desiccator, and weighed. 

(4) The sample is saturated with .sulfuric acid, dried, ignited gently, then 
burnt in a inutile at low redness. One-tenth of the weight of the ash is deducted 
to calculate the percentage. 



Extraction with Miscible Solvents. 

Cold extraction may be made by macerating a weighed 
portion of the material in a measured volume of the solvent 
in a vessel closed so as to prevent appreciable evaporation, 
decanting or filtering an aliquot portion of the liquid, evap- 
orating and weighing the residue. The time of macera- 
tion and the method of evaporation must be adapted to 
each case. The percolation method of producing a con- 
centrated solution is not well suited to the operations of food 
analysis. 

For thorough extraction, especially with difficultly soluble 
materials and volatile solvents, the continuous extraction ap- 
paratus devised by Szombathy, 4 but commonly called the 
Soxhlet tube, is most suitable. The general construction and 
arrangement are so well known as not to require detailed 
description. 

The apparatus, as shown on page 50, is provided with a 
globular metal condenser, but the ordinary spiral condenser 
or Cribb's form may be employed. The material may be 
placed in a fat-free paper thimble and covered with a plug of 
cotton to prevent loss of fine particles. In place of the cotton 
plug a Gooch crucible may be used, as shown in the cut. 
The top of the thimble should be a short distance below, and 
the top of the crucible a short distance above, the bend of the 
siphon. The thimble should be supported by a section of 
5 



FOOD ANALYSIS 




glass tubing, I to 2 cm. long, with rounded edges ; the edge 
on which the thimble rests should be a little uneven to pre- 
vent a close joint, which would hinder 
the siphoning of some of the liquid. 

Another method is to use a glass 
tube open at both ends, the material to 
be extracted being held in position by 
loose plugs of cotton placed above and 
below. 

To obtain good results with ether it 
is essential that it be as nearly as pos- 
sible free from alcohol and water. The 
method of purification recommended by 
the A. O. A. C. is as follows : 

Commercial ether is washed with two 
or three successive portions of distilled 
water and solid sodium hydroxid added 
until most of the water has been ex- 
tracted. Carefully-cleaned metallic so- 
dium, cut into small pieces, is added 
until there is no further evolution of 
hydrogen. The ether thus dehydrated 
must be kept over metallic sodium, and 
should be only lightly stoppered in order 
to allow any accumulated hydrogen to 
escape. 

Light petroleum, commonly known 
as benzin and gasolin, and often by 
other trade-names, may be used for ex- 
traction purposes. It should be purified 
Fi<;. 25. by redistillation, selecting the portions 

which come over below 50. 

Other solvents are employed in special cases. Benzene, 
chloroform, carbon disulfid, and acetone are now obtainable 





Kir.. 26. 



Fit:. 27. 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



of high purity, but are liable to contain some moisture, which 
can be removed by treatment with plaster- of- Paris. 

Knorr's extraction apparatus substitutes mercury seals for 
corks and ground joints. Several other improvements in the 
details of the Soxhlet apparatus are made, as shown in figure 
26. The condenser is a tube with a series of bulbs, and is 
fused to the hood which holds the material to be extracted. 
The rubber stopper which supports the outside of the con- 
denser should be put on before the junction is made. A 
shows a section of the flask and lower part of the hood in 
position. ^ is a siphon for preventing 
the accumulation of solvent between the 
hood and the neck of the flask. The 
junction between the hood and the flask 
is sealed by mercury. The flask is held 
by a rubber band which passes under it 
and over two hooks on the hood. Figure 
28 shows a tube for holding the mate- 
rial ; D is a perforated platinum plate. 
At / are nipples for holding the tube 
upon the rim of the flask. A convenient 
arrangement of the siphon is also shown 
in figure 28 ; the siphon, being within the 
apparatus, is protected from breakage. 

With Knorr's apparatus little leakage occurs even with the 
most volatile solvents. 

For the recovery of the solvent the apparatus shown in 
figure 27 is used, in which A is the flask containing the liquid. 
C may be a ground joint; the joints of A and B are sealed 
with mercury. 

It must not be overlooked that mercury seals exposed con- 
stantly to the air of badly ventilated rooms may cause chronic 
mercurial poisoning. 

Wiley's extraction apparatus is shown in figure 29. 




FIG. 28. 



EXTRACTION WITH IMMISCIIUI SOLVENTS 



53 



Tlu- outer vessel is a stout glass tube. The inner vessel is 
of nickel-plated metal in a series of double cones ; the flat 
plate at the top fits tightly on the ground surface of the glass 
vessel. Cold water is passed continually through the interior 
of the metal vessel, by which the solvent is constantly con- 
densed, and drops upon the material to be treated, which is 
contained in a porcelain or platinum bucket, with a detach- 
able perforated bottom, through which the extract drops into 
a vase-like receiver resting in the outer 
vessels. This is not shown in the cut, and 
will not be .required if the estimation be 
made by the indirect method. 

Extraction with Immiscible Solvents. 

Solvents not miscible with water are em- 
ployed for extracting substances by shaking 
the solvent thoroughly with the aqueous 
solution, allowing the liquids to separate, 
and removing one of them. The process 
is most conveniently performed, in a stop- 
pered separator. The principal difficulty 
is the liability of some liquids to form 
emulsions which separate only after long 
standing. Separation may sometimes be 
hastened by cooling the mixture or by 
adding more of the solvent. One of 
the most satisfactory methods when operating upon small 
amounts of liquid is to whirl the mixture for a short time in a 
high-speed centrifuge. 

Figure 30 shows an apparatus devised by O. Forster for 
use with solvents lighter than water. 

The cylinder A should hold about 1000 c.c. Two openings 
are not necessary, since both tubes may pass through the cork, 
but tlu- arrangement shown is more convenient. 600 c.c. of 




54 



I ()(.[) ANALYSIS 



the solution are placed in the cylinder, 300 c.c. of solvent 
added and the mixtures well shaken. The rest of the appa- 
ratus is then attached. The flask II has a capacity of 200 to 
300 c.c.; the solvent in it is heated by a water-bath. The 
vapor passes by a into b, the condensed liquid flows to the 
bottom of A and rises through the solution ; the upper layer 

returns through c into B. The 
tube c should not extend into the 
liquid in B. A small quantity of 
aqueous liquid may collect at inter- 
vals in B and should be removed. 

Distillation and Sublimation. 

Retorts and alembics are now 
but little used, but are serviceable 
in some cases. With glass vessels 
the irregular percussive boiling, 
commonly called "bumping," is 
liable to break the vessel or to 
spurt portions of the undistilled 
liquid into the condensing appara- 
tus. Bumping may usually be pre- 
vented by the addition of a few frag- 
ments of pumice, clay pipe, or plati- 
num foil. Dry pumice floats on 
most liquids. It may be made to 
sink either by soaking it in water for 

a day or so or by heating the fragment to redness and quench- 
ing it in the liquid. With inflammable liquids, the latter 
method must be used cautiously. A special device to prevent 
bumping is described by W. H. Hess and A. B. Prescott : 5 A 
capillary tube is cut of such length that it cannot lie on the 
bottom of the distilling vessel, and projects some distance 
above the level of the liquid. One end is sealed and the tube 




FIG. 30. 



Pivni.l \ I l<>\ AM) St'MI.IMATION 



55 



is placed with >prn end resting about the center of the bot- 
tom of the vessel. 

In special apparatus, a flask with a short platinum wire 
filled into the bottom is preferred. As a protection against 
spurting, bulb-tubes are used, as shown on page 43. 

Condensing apparatus is made in considerable variety ; 
practically, glass and block-tin are the only available materials 
for tubes. Glass tubes are liable to crack at the point at 




Fir.. 31. 

which the cooling action begins. To avoid leakage and the 
contact of hot vapors with corks or rubber tubes, the con- 
nections should be as few as possible. Arrangements of dis- 
tilling apparatus are shown in the section on nitrogen determ- 
ination and other convenient forms in figures 31 and 32. In 
the former a block-tin worm passes through a copper tank 
the cooling water. The upward inclination of the 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



neck of the retort causes any material that is thrown into it 
to return to the boiling liquid. This is a convenient appara- 
tus for the so-called ammonia process in water analysis. 




FIG. 32. 

Figure 32 shows an improved form of distilling apparatus 
devised by R. S. Weston. The condenser tube is of copper 
or japanned galvanized iron. The details of construction and 



I>ISI II I M ION AND SUBLIMATION 



57 



arrangement are sufficiently indicated in the drawing. The 
apparatus is shown as arranged for water analysis. When 
Kjeldahl distillations are being made the lower end of the 
block-tin tube should be extended by means of a bulbed 
glass tube, as noted elsewhere. Safety bulbs may also be 
placed between the flask and condensing tube in such a way 
as to avoid rubber-tube connections. Materials are added by 
means of long-stemmed funnels. Weston uses a Bunsen 
burner, but it is probable that the low 
temperature burner would be satisfac- 
tory in many cases. 

Figure 33 shows Cribb's condenser, 
which may be attached to any distilling 
apparatus. The distillation tube is at- 
tached at A. The walls are double ; 
condensation occurs in the space between 
thc-m, and the distillate flows out by the 
tube E. The cooling water flows through 
F to the bottom of the inner space, over- 
flows aty into the catch-basin below, es- 
caping by G. The stopper / serves to 
steady the tube F t and should have 
several large notches cut in it to allow 
the water to escape freely. It is usually 
necessary to wrap a piece of muslin 
around the outside of the apparatus to cause the overflow- 
ing water to run properly. The condenser may be made 
of glass, block-tin, or tinned copper. Experience shows that 
the apparatus will be more satisfactory if some of the dimen- 
sions are changed from those indicated in the figure, which is 
taken from Cribb's paper. The annular space should be 
cr, especially at the bottom; the catch-basin must be 
roomy, ami G should have a caliber at least three times that 
of /'". The catch-basin is held in place by rubber tubing. 
6 




5 FOOD ANALYSIS 

The condenser is supported by a strong clamp. L is for 
attachment of an air-pump for distillation under diminished 
pressure. 

For forms and arrangements of reflux or inverted con- 
densers see under " Extraction." 

Distillation of small amounts of material may be made 
with the ordinary extractor, terminating the operation before 
the distillate reaches the level of the bend of the siphon. 

Distillation under reduced pressure or in a current of indif- 
ferent gas may be carried out in the apparatus devised by 
L. T. Thorne, 6 which, in a form improved by F. C. Axtell, is 




FIG. 34. 



shown in figure 34.. This consists of a distilling-flask, a 
condenser, an upright receiver, and a small receiving-flask. 
It is convenient to have several of the last. The distilling- 
flask is furnished with a tap-funnel. Its mouth is best closed 
with a good cork which has been well softened. A ther- 
mometer may be passed through this. The condenser and 
upright receiver are joined by fusion and the latter has three 
stopcocks, the upper and lower being of ordinary form, the 
middle one a three-way cock. All stopcocks and joints must 
be well ground. 



DISTILLATION AND SUBLIMATION 59 

The operation is as follows : A little powdered pumice- 
stone is pi. iced in the distilling-flask and the cork with the 
thermometer placed in position. The tube at the upper 
extremity of the receiver is connected with the air-pump, a 
strong vessel, having a capacity of several liters, being inter- 
posed between the pump and the apparatus to obviate the 
effect of sudden variations of pressure. The funnel-tap on 
the distilling-flask is closed, the upper stopcock is opened 
and the lower one is closed, and the middle one opened so as 
to exhaust the receiving-flask. The liquid is then introduced 
into the distilling flask through the tap-funnel, and after the 
foaming due to the liberation of air by the pumice-stone has 
subsided, distillation is begun. When the first fraction or a 
sufficient quantity has collected in the upright receiver, the 
upper cock is closed, the lower one opened, and the liquid 
allowed to run into the receiving-flask. The lower cock is 
closed and the middle one turned so as to admit air to the 
flask, which is then disconnected and another substituted. 
The cocks are then set for the beginning of another distilla- 
tion. 

Axtell finds that powdered pumice, used as indicated, 
entirely prevents bumping. 

For lubrication of glass stopcocks, the following mixtures, 
devised by F. C. Phillips, are useful : 

Pure rubber, 70 parts Pure rubber 70 j>arts 

Spermaceti, 25 " or Unbleached beeswax, .30 " 

Vaselin, 5 " 

The rubber must be fresh and pure ; rubber scraps will 
not answer. It should be melted in a covered vessel, the 
other materials added, and the mixture well stirred while hot, 
care being taken not to scorch it. It must not be exposed to 

o 

air longer than is necessary during heating, and should be kept 
in well-closed bottles. These mixtures may IK- ivm<>\ id from 



6O FOOD ANALYSIS 

the parts of the apparatus which are not easy of access by 
the use of a little strong nitric acid, which loosens the lubri- 
cant so that it may be washed out with water. 

Fractional distillation may be performed with the Thorne- 
Axtell apparatus. Special bulb-tubes have been devised for 
attachment to ordinary flasks so that the vapor may be par- 
tially condensed and succeeding portions washed with the 
liquid which runs back continuously into the flask. Among 
these are the Le Bel-Heninger and Glynsky tubes. The 
former bears from two to six bulbs. The upper part has an 
inclined side tube for connection with the receiver and an 
opening throt\gh which the thermometer can be passed. Each 
of the bulbs is connected with the one just below by a side 
tube. At the constricted part of each bulb a small thimble 
of platinum, copper, or nickel gauze rests. The vapor con- 
denses in the cups and washes the vapor subsequently 
formed. The liquid runs off from each bulb, back to the 
flask. The flame should be regulated so as to keep all the 
cups full, and cause the distillate to fall from the end of the 
tube in separate drops. In the Glynsky bulb hollow glass 
balls replace the gauze. 

It must be borne in mind that the present United States 
revenue-law requires all distilling apparatus to be registered, 
no matter for what purpose it is used. Heavy penalties are 
imposed for using non-registered stills. No fee is imposed 
for registry, which is made on blanks furnished by the Col- 
lector of Internal Revenue. 

SUBLIMATION may be performed in a narrow test-tube or 
watch-glasses with concavities facing, the upper glass being 
slightly small so that it may fit well. A gentle heat is ap- 
plied to the lower dish. By substituting a beaker containing 
water for the upper watch-glass a better cooling effect will be 
obtained. 



APPARATUS AND CHEMICALS 



61 



Apparatus and Chemicals. 

These can now be obtained generally of good quality at 
almost all times and places, but a few suggestions may be of 
value. 

Ccnfnfitgt-. Centrifugal apparatus is of much advantage in 
laboratory work. The slow-speed machines made for milk 
analysis are of limited application ; much better results are 
obtained by the high-speed apparatus of 
the type shown in figure 35. 

In operating such machines, the load 
on the revolving arms must be balanced 
or the center of gravity will not coincide 
with the center of revolution, and an ob- 
jectionable vibration will be produced. 
The machine should be attached to a firm 
table or shelf and kept properly oiled and 
protected from dust. The tubes usually- 
furnished are narrowed at the bottom, 
and, as solid material is apt to be packed 
closely by the centrifugal action, it is 
sometimes difficult to dislodge it, but 
care should be taken to get all such ma- 
terial out of the tube so as not to con- 
taminate the substance used in a subse- 
quent experiment. If it be desired to 
use vessels not narrowed at the base, 

small glass tubes closed by cork at one end may be substituted. 
In this case, however, the lower end of the tube-holder should 
be packet! with cotton to such a height that the cork cannot 
he driven into a part of the tube narrow enough to hold it 
tightly. If this pa-caution be neglected, the rotation will push 
the glass tube so far into the tube-holder that it may be impos- 
sible to draw it out without leaving the cork. 

suitable for most laboratory work is nou made 




FIG. 35. 



02 FOOD ANALYSIS 

in the United States, but the Bohemian and Jena glass still 
shows important merit which will lead to preference for it in 
many cases. For the cleaning of glass and porcelain, especi- 
ally when working with fatty matters, the commercial triso- 
dium phosphate is of much use. Vessels cleaned with it must 
be well rinsed. A bath of so-called battery fluid (potassium 
dichromate or sodium dichromate, or, better, the crude chromic 
acid sold for the purpose, 250 grams ; water, 2000 c.c.; sul- 
furic acid, 300 c.c.) will make an efficient cleaning solution for 
all non-metallic articles. These should be cleansed with soap, 
sodium phosphate, or sodium carbonate to get rid of the 
organic matter, rinsed, and then soaked in the liquid overnight. 
The solution gives off no fumes and its color guards against 
imperfect rinsing. It is of little value when it has become 
brown or green, but may be freshened by adding crude chromic 
and sulfuric acids. As the liquid is very corrosive, all waste 
from it should be washed down the drain-pipes with a free flow 
of water. Strong sulfuric acid is used by some chemists, 
especially for cleaning greasy apparatus. Organic matters 
such as corks and tubes should, of course, not be put in these 
cleaning solutions. 

For heating beakers and flat-bottomed flasks the hot-plate 
is much used, but the thin cast-iron plates commonly fur- 
nished are unsatisfactory. A better form is a rolled plate at 
least i cm. thick. Nickel wire-gauze is a good substitute 
for the common wire-gauze. The Chaddock burner, made of 
non-corrodible materials, is now obtainable, and is adapted 
to use in the fume-box. Electric heating apparatus has been 
brought to considerable efficiency, and will in time supplant 
all present methods, but the installation and operation are as 
yet costly. An incandescent lamp may be arranged as a 
heating apparatus, and is especially satisfactory in extractions 
and distillations with inflammable materials. The low-tempera- 
ture burner shown in figure 36 is convenient in many opera- 



APPARATUS AND CHEMICALS 63 

tions. As sold, the inlet pipe is too short and the rubber 
connection becomes hot. The inlet should be lengthened by 
a piece of metal pipe (standard ^ inch gas-pipe is suitable) 
about 10 cm. long. In default of this, the joint may be kept 
cool by wrapping around it a piece of muslin, the ends of 
which dip in a vessel containing water. 

Filter-papers are furnished in great variety, adapted to all 
purposes. The so-called hardened filters are serviceable in 
several operations, such as determination of crude fiber, insolu- 
ble matter, and extraction with volatile solvents, for with care 
the wet precipitate can be scraped off" without removing an 
appreciable amount of the filter-paper. 

Glass rods slightly flattened or bent 
at the middle to a very obtuse angle 
are convenient because they are not 
liable to roll off of beakers or funnels. 

Reagents, especially those used only 
in small amounts, are most conveni- 
ently kept in capped bottles, each with 
small glass tube or pipet, the tube be- 
ing just long enough to reach above FIG. 36. 
the top of the bottle. In this way 

none of the solution will get in contact with the neck of the 
bottle. Solids should be kept in hood-stoppered bottles, 
/'. e., those in which the flat top of the stopper is close to the 
bottle, so as to give less chance for deposit of dust. All 
chemicals in general use should be kept in closed cases, ammo- 
nium hydroxid and ammonium carbonate being separate from 
the common acids. The stock bottles for acids and standard 
solutions should be protected from dust by placing over the 
stopper of each, an inverted tumbler large enough to rest on 
the top of the body of the bottle. 

riatinnm ware requires care to prevent staining and crack- 
ing. Substances containing any of the easily-reducible metaU 




64 FOOD ANALYSIS 

must not be heated in contact with platinum ; even iron com- 
pounds in the presence of reducing agents e. g., filter-paper 
will do harm. Sudden cooling of platinum should be avoided, 
as it tends to make the metal brittle. After being heated to 
redness the metal, when cold, should be lightly rubbed \\ith 
very fine sea-sand (not river-sand nor powered quartz or 
pumice), by which the metal will be burnished and its texture 
preserved. The platinum-pointed forceps should be treated 
in the same way. 

Platinum dishes may often be cleaned by rubbing them 
with sodium amalgam, decomposing this by immersion in 
water, and driving the mercury off by heating to redness. 
Some stains may be removed by melted potassium acid 
sulfate. 

Nickel dishes may be substituted for platinum in cases in 
which only gentle heating is required, but nickel is apt to be 
injured by direct heating with gas. 

All the largely used chemicals are obtainable of good qual- 
ity, as a rule, but in important investigations tests for purity 
and strength should be applied. The following notes will be 
sufficient. 

Alcohol. Ethyl alcohol, commonly called "grain alcohol," 
contains in its strongest commercial form about 95 per cent, 
of ethyl hydroxid, notable quantities of esters, aldehydes, 
fusel oil, and traces of acid. For some purposes e. g., mak- 
ing standard solutions of alkali it must be purified by redis- 
tillation over sodium hydroxid. The absolute alcohol sold 
by dealers usually contains some water. The presence of 
water in alcohol may be detected by the evolution of acety- 
lene when a little calcium carbid is added. This may also be 
employed for removing small amounts of water, the liquid 
being then redistilled, but hydrogen sulfid, hydrogen phos- 
phid, and ammonium compounds may be thus introduced. 
Anhydrous copper sulfate is turned blue by alcohol containing 
water. 



A1M'AKAII> AM) CHEMICALS 65 

Methyl alcohol. Crude wood-alcohol is of limited use in 
laboratory work. It contains much acetone. A purified 
article is now furnished, under the trade name " Columbian 
Spirit," which is about 98 per cent, methyl hydroxid and is 
free from notable amounts of impurities. It may be used 
with economy as a substitute for ethyl alcohol in many cases. 
It is more volatile, but traces of strong-smelling foreign matters 
may cause the odor to persist longer than with refined alcohol. 

Ether. Commercial ether contains notable amounts of al- 
cohol and water, but much purer samples can be obtained from 
dealers in laboratory supplies. A method for preparing ether 
for extraction purposes is given on page 50. 

Cliloroform, benzene, and petroleum spirit are usually obtaina- 
ble of good quality, except that all are liable to contain water, 
which is sometimes objectionable. It may be removed by use 
of anhydrous calcium sulfate or anhydrous copper sulfate and 
redistillation. Commercial chloroform is liable to decomposi- 
tion, by which it becomes acrid. All volatile solvents are 
liable to contain appreciable amounts of non-volatile materials. 

Sodium hydroxid. Several brands sold for household use 
are suitable for ordinary purposes, such as making standard 
alkali or in the Kjeldahl-Gunning process. 

Potassium hydroxid. Purified grades should be used. 

Sand and asbestos intended for moisture and extract deter- 
mination must be selected with care, and dried thoroughly be- 
fore weighing. Common sand contains much material other 
than quart/. ; asbestos fiber is often of inferior quality. 

Electrolytic Method for Standard Solutions. The 
preparation of standard solutions by electrolysis has been 
investigated by R. K. Meade, 7 who finds the following method 
accurate : 

'-487 grams of pure crystalli/.ed copj>cr sulfate are dis- 
solved in about 750 c.c. of hot water in a 1000 c.c. beaker 



66 FOOD ANALYSIS 

When the solution is cold, a cylinder of thin copper foil a 
little more than three times the diameter of the beaker is rolled 
so that the ends lap. The negative wire is slipped through 
holes in the lap and fastened. The beaker is covered by a per- 
forated watch-glass, through which a platinum wire for the 
positive pole passes. A current of 1.5 to 2 amperes is sent 
through the solution for at least 8 hours. The terminals are 
then well rinsed, also any copper that may have dropped, the 
liquid decanted into the flask, made up to mark, and mixed. 
The solution is decinormal. Normal and half-normal can also 
be prepared in this manner. 

In the preparation of standard solutions it must be borne 
in mind that graduated apparatus is not only often inaccurate, 
but the systems of standardizing it are not wholly uniform. 
It is to be regretted that some of the dealers in reagents have 
not established a system of supplying standard solutions of 
certain reagents of absolutely uniform strength. 

Indicators. For ordinary laboratory work litmus, phenol- 
phthalein, and methyl-orange are usually preferred. 

Litmus. Litmus solution is now little used. It is prepared 
by treating the commercial material with water and filtering 
the solution after sufficient color has dissolved. It must be 
kept in an open bottle. Intermediate litmus-paper, which is 
convenient for ascertaining the reaction of liquids, is prepared 
as follows : A clear, fresh solution of litmus is divided into 
two equal portions; one of these is rendered purple-red (not 
bright red) by the cautious addition of dilute nitric acid ; the 
other portion is then added and strips of good filter-paper 
soaked in the liquid and dried quickly. This paper will be 
affected by ordinary acid or alkaline solutions. It should 
be kept in the dark, protected from dust. 

Phenol plitlialcin. A solution of i gram in 100 c.c. of good 
(methyl or ethyl) alcohol is sufficient and keeps well. 



APPARATUS AND CHEMICALS 67 

. A solution of o. I gram in water will be 
- itisfactory. In titrating with methyl-orange very little of 
the indicator should be used. 

Cochineal. Many prefer this indicator for titrating am- 
moniun hydroxid. The following description is given by the 
A. O. A. C. in connection with the Kjeldahl-Gunning process : 
3 grams of powdered cochineal are macerated for several 
days, with occasional shaking, in alcohol of about 20 per 
cent., and the solution filtered. 



APPLIED ANALYSIS 

GENERAL METHODS 

POISONOUS METALS 

The elements included under this title are mercury, arsenic, 
lead, tin, copper, and zinc. Some very poisonous elements 
are not likely to be encountered in foods, and therefore are 
not considered in this connection. 

A* H. Allen 8 has devised a general process for the de- 
tection of poisonous metals. A convenient quantity of the 
substance, say 25 grams, is mixed in a porcelain crucible by 
degrees with sufficient strong sulfuric acid to moisten the 
mass thoroughly without making it fluid. About 2 c.c. will 
generally be required. Liquid material should be evapo- 
rated to dry ness or nearly so at a low temperature before being 
treated with the acid. The crucible is heated for a short time 
on the water-bath, after which the temperature is gradually 
raised to a point below that required to volatilize the sulfuric 
acid, and maintained until the action seems to be complete. 
It is not necessary to carry on this part of the process until 
the carbon is burnt off. The crucible is allowed to cool, 
about I c.c. of strong nitric acid added, and the heating con- 
tinued until red fumes are evolved. Recently ignited mag- 
nesia, in the proportion of 0.5 gram for each cubic centi- 
meter of the acid used, is incorporated with the mass and the 
mixture burned off at a dull red heat, preferably in a muffle. 
After cooling, the ash is moistened with nitric acid, again 
burned off, and the process repeated until all the carbon is 
consumed. The residue is treated with 0.5 c.c. of sulfuric 

68 



POISONOUS METALS 



acid, lu-atcd until fumes are evolved, cooled, boiled with water, 
diluted without filtration to about 100 c.c., saturated with 
hydrogen sulfid, the solution filtered and examined according 
to the following scheme : 



AQUEOUS SOLUTION may contain zinc, iron PRHCIPITATK AND RKSIDCR may contain 



and earthy phosphates. Add bromin 
water to <lesiroy hydrogen sulfid, con- 
vert iron into the ferric state, hoil. then 
add excess of ammonium hydroxid, boil 
again, and filter. 



lead sulfid, stannic oxid, copper sulfid, or 
calcium sulfate. Fuse in porcelain cru- 
cible for 10 minutes with 2 grams of mixed 
potassium and sodium carbonate* and I 
gram of sulfur. When cool, boil with 
water and filter. 



PR RCI PI- 


FILTRATE if blue, contains RESIWK. Boil with strong hy- FILTRATK. 


TA T K 
may con- 


nickel. Divide into two por- drochloric acid as long ashy- Acidu- 
tions : . drogen sulfid is evolved, acid late \ h 


tain iron 


a few drops of broniin water a c e t c 


and plius- 


to complete the oxidation of acid. A 


phatt-s. 


the copper sulfid, and filter , yellow 




if necessary. To the filtrate > precif - 




add excess of ammonium hy- , tate of 




droxid, when a blue color- staim c 




ation will be indicative of sulfid i- 




coppcr. Acidulate the liquid 


d idles 




with acetic acid and divide 


tin. 




into two portions : 






1. Heat to boil- 


II. If sine I! I. Add potas- II. Add pot as- 






ing and add 


found in I, sium chro- sium frn 






po t assiu m 


for its deter- mate. A cyanid. A 




ferrocvanid. 


mination, yellow pre- brownish 




White pre- 
cipitate or 


acidulate, cipitate in- precipitate, 
theammoni- dicates /<<</. or colora- 




turbidity in- 


acal solution tion indi- 




dicates zinc. 


strongly 


calesc of>l>'-> . 








with acetic 










acid, filter, if 










necessary, 










and precipi- 










tate the zinc 












from the fil- 




. 








trate by hy- 












drogen sul- 












fid.. Any 












nickel pres- 












ent will also 












be precipi- 
tatid. 









Allen's scheme does not include chromium, which may be 
present as a constituent of lead chromate and will be found 
almost entirely in the precipitate and residue insoluble in 
water. For its detection a portion of this or of the original 
ash may be fused with sodium carbonate and potassium 
chlorate, the yellow melt containing chromate dissolved in 



7O FOOD ANALYSIS 

the smallest possible quantity of water and slightly acidulated 
with hydrochloric acid. The liquid is then added to a test- 
tube containing a small amount of hydrogen dioxid overlaid 
with a little ether. In the presence of a chromate the water 
will acquire a blue color, which on slight shaking will pass 
into the ethereal layer. 

When //// is known to be present, the amount may be found 
by treating the precipitate of stannic sulfid with strong nitric 
acid, igniting the metastannic acid formed, and weighing the 
resultant stannic acid. For the detection of tin it is recom- 
mended to treat the stannic sulfid with hydrochloric acid and 
bromin water and boil the filtered liquid with iron wire to 
reduce to the stannous condition. The liquid is diluted and 
decanted from .the undissolved iron and any precipitated 
material, and the tin detected by adding a drop of mercuric 
chlorid solution, which will produce a white or gray turbidity 
according to the amount of tin present. 

Copper may be estimated colorimetrically by means of 
ammonium hydroxid or potassium ferrocyanid. According 
to Bodmer and Moor, for very small amounts the ferrocyanid 
method is the most accurate. Paul and Cownley estimate 
copper as follows : The sample is carbonized in a platinum 
dish and extracted with a little hydrochloric acid ; the insolu- 
ble residue is ignited with a little nitric acid, hydrochloric 
acid added, and. the resulting mixture added to the original 
extract. The solution is then concentrated to about 30 or 40 
c.c., placed in a weighed platinum dish, and the copper depos- 
ited with pure zinc. If the deposit is not of true copper 
color, it is dissolved in a little nitric acid and the copper 
determined colorimetrically. 

Zinc. Wiley determines the amount of zinc in evaporated 
fruits as follows : The sample is placed in a large platinum 
dish and heated slowly until dry and in incipient combustion. 
The flame is removed and the combustion allowed to proceed, 



POISONOUS METALS 71 

the lump being applied from time to time, in case the burning 
ceases. The muss, when burned out, consists of ash and char. 
It is ground to fine powder and extracted with hydrochloric 
or nitric acid, the residual char is burned to whiteness at a low 
temperature, the ash extracted with acid, the soluble portion 
added to the first extract, and the whole filtered. A drop of 
methyl-orange solution is placed in the liquid and ammonium 
hydroxid added until it is only faintly acid. The iron is pre- 
cipitated by adding 50 c.c. of a solution of ammonium acetate, 
250 grams to the liter, and raising the temperature to about 
80. The precipitate is separated by filtration, washed in 
water at 80 until free from chlorid, the filtrate saturated 
with hydrogen sulfid, allowed to stand until the xinc sulfid 
settles, and poured on a close filter. It is often necessary to 
return the filtrate several times before it becomes limpid. The 
collected precipitate is washed with a saturated solution of 
hydrogen sulfid containing a little acetic acid. The precipi- 
tate and filter are transferred to a crucible, dried, ignited, and 
the oxid weighed. 

Arsenic, if present in amount sufficient to be of sanitary 
significance, may be detected by Reinsch's test, a liberal 
amount of hydrochloric acid being used, since arsenates do 
not otherwise respond to the test. Some water strongly acid- 
ulated with hydrochloric acid is placed in a test-tube, about 
half a square centimeter of bright copper foil. added, and the 
liquid boiled gently for a few minutes. If the copper remains 
bright, showing that the reagents contain no arsenic, the 
material to be tested is added and the liquid again boiled for 
several minutes. If arsenic be present, a steel-gray stain will 
appear on the copper. The slip is removed, washed with dis- 
tilled water, dried by pressure between filter-paper, placed at 
the closed end of a narrow glass which has been previously 
dried by heating nearly to redness. The tube is gently heated 
at the point at which the copper rests. The arsenic will be 



72 FOOD ANALYSIS 

converted into arsenous oxid, which will collect on the cooler 
portions of the tube in octahedral crystals. 

Reinsch's test cannot be applied in the presence of active 
oxidizing agents, such as chromates, chlorates, or nitrates. 

Gutzeit's test, which is more delicate, is as follows : Place 
in a tall test-tube about a gram of pure zinc, 5 c.c. of diluted 
sulfuric acid (6 per cent.), and I c.c. of the sample. The 
mouth of the test-tube is covered with a tightly-fitting cap of 
three thicknesses of filter-paper. A drop of strong solution 
of silver nitrate is placed on the upper paper and the tube 
allowed to stand for 10 minutes in the dark. If arsenic be 
present, a bright yellow stain will appear on the filter-paper, 
which, on the addition of water, becomes black or brown. A 
blank test should always be made to establish the purity of 
the reagents. Sulfids (which may be detected by substituting 
lead acetate for the silver nitrate in the above test) must be 
oxidized to sulfates before applying the test. 

The test is delicate. A less rigorous one may be made by 
substituting a drop of a saturated solution of mercuric chlorid 
for the silver nitrate. If no yellow coloration appears after 10 
minutes, the sample may be considered free from arsenic. 

The purity of the reagents must be carefully ascertained 
before applying any of these methods. 

COLORS 

At present, the colors used in food-articles are mostly 
synthetic products, commonly called " anilins," but largely 
derived from other coal-tar materials. 

Natural organic colors annatto, cochineal, turmeric, indigo, 
saffron, and chlorophyl are used to a limited extent, but the 
mineral colors, such as lead chromate and ferric oxid, are 
rarely employed. 

The National Association of Confectioners of the United 



COLORS 73 

Stitrs ha> published a list of forbidden and permitted colors, 
and many manufacturers are following the suggestions therein 
made. A summary of this list is herewith presented. The 
nomenclature of the colors is much confused, but the list has 
a suggestive value. 

FORBIDDEN 

All colors containing appreciable amounts of mercury, lead, 
copper, arsenic, antimony, tin, zinc, chromium, cadmium, and 
barium. 

PONCEAU 3RB Ponceau B extra, Fast Ponceau B, New 
Red L, Scarlet EC, Imperial Scarlet, Old Scarlet, Biebrich 
Scarlet. 

CROCEIN SCARLET 3B Ponceau 4KB. 

COCHEMLLE RED A Crocein Scarlet 4!* and G, Brilliant 
Scarlet, Brilliant Ponceau 4R, Ponceau 4R, Ponceau 
Brilliant 4R, New Coccin Scarlet. 

CROCEIN SCARLET /B Crocein Scarlet SB, Ponceau 6RB. 

CROCEIN SCARLET O Extra. 

SAFRANIN Safranin T, Safranin extra G, Safranin G extra, 
GGSS, Safranin GOOO, Safranin FF extra, No. O, Safranin 
cone, Safranin AG extra, Safranin AGT extra, Anilin pink. 

GUM GUTTA. 

PICRIC ACID. 

MARTIUS YELLOW Naphthylamin yellow, Jaune d'or, Man- 
chester yellow, Naphthalene yellow, Naphthol yellow. 

ACME YELLOW Chrysoin, Chryseolin yellow T, Gold yellow, 
Resorcin yellow, Acid yellow RS, Tropeolin O, Jaune II. 

VICTORIA YELLOW Victoria Orange, Anilin Orange, Dinitro- 
cresol, Saffron Substitute, Golden yellow. 

ORANGE II Orange II, Orange P. Oran-r rxtra, Orange A. 
( hunge G, Acid Orange, Gold Orange, Mandarin G extra, 
7 



74 FOOD ANALYSIS 

/9-Naphthol orange, Tropeolin OOO 2, Mandarin, Chry- 
saurin. 

METANIL YELLOW Orange MN, Tropeolin G, Victoria yel- 
low (O double cone.), Jaune G, Metanil extra. 

SUDAN I Carminnaphthe. 

ORANGE IV Orange IV, Orange N, Orange GS ; New yel- 
low, Acid yellow D, Tropeolin OO, Fast yellow, Diphen- 
ylorange, Diphenylamin Orange, Anilin yellow. 

NAPHTHOL GREEN B. 

METHYLENE BLUE BBG Methylene Blue BB, in powder 
extra, Methylene Blue DBB, extra, Methylene Blue' BB, 
(Crystalline), Ethylene Blue, Methylene Blue BB. 

BISMARCK BROWN Bismarck brown G, Manchester brown, 
Phenylene brown, Vesuvin, Anilin brown, Leather brown, 
Cinnamon brown, Canelle, English brown, Gold brown. 

VESUVIN B Manchester brown EE, Manchester brown PS, 
Bismarck brown, Bismarck brown T. 

FAST BROWN G Acid brown. 

CHRYSOIDIN Chrysoidin G, Chrysoidin R, Chrysoidin J, 
Chrysoidin Y. 

PERMITTED 

ULTRAMARINE BLUE. 

ULTRAMARINE VIOLET. 

MANGANESE BROWN. 

CHOCOLATE BROWN and colors of a similar nature have as 
their basis natural or precipitated ferric oxid which in an 
impure condition may have small quantities of arsenic in 
its composition. It is possible with proper care to secure 
raw material entirely free from this objectionable element 
and no ferric oxid containing any traces of arsenic should 
be used in the preparation of color. 

ULTRAMARINE GREEN. 



COLORS 75 

COCHINEAL CAKMIN. 

CARTHAMIC ACID (from saffron). 

RED WOOD. 

ARTIFICIAL ALIZARIN AND PURPURIN. 

CHERRY AND BEET JUICES. 

EOSIN Eosin A, Eosin G extra, Eosin GGF, Eosin JJJ, 
Eosin JJJJ extra, Eosin extra, Eosin KS, Eosin DH, Eosin 
JJF. 

EKVTHROSIN Erythrosin D, Erythrosin B, Pyrosin B, Prim- 
rose Soluble, Eosin J, Dianthin B. 

ROSE BENGALE Rose Bengale N, Rose Bcngale AT, Rose 
Bengale G. 

PHLOXIN Phloxin TA, Eosin blue, Cyanosin, Eosin 10 B. 

BORDEAUX AND PONCEAU reds resulting from the action of 
Naphtholsulfonic acids on diazoxylenes. 
PONCEAU 2 R Ponceau G, Ponceau GR, Ponceau R, 

Brilliant Ponceau G, Ponceau J. 
BORDEAUX B Fast Red B v Bordeaux BL, Bordeaux G, 

Bordeaux R extra, Cerasin, Rouge B. 
PONCEAU GG Brilliant Ponceau GG, Ponceau JJ. 

FUCHSIN S Acid Magenta, Rubin S, and Fuchsin. 

ARCHIL SUBSTITUTE Naphthion red. 

ORANGE I Orange No. i, Naphthol orange, a-Naphthol 
orange, Tropeolin OOO i. 

CONGO RED. 

AZORUBIN S Azorubin, Azorubin A, Azoacidrubin, Fast 
red C, Carmoisin, Brilliant Carmoisin O. 

FAST RED D Fast red EB, Fast red NS, Amaranth, Azo- 
acidrubin BB, Bordeaux DH, Bordeaux S, Naphthol red S, 
Naphthol red O, Victoria ruby, Wool red (extra). 

FAST RED Fast red E, Fast red S, Acid Carmoisin S. 



7 FOOD ANALYSIS 

PONCEAU 4 GB Crocein Orange, Brilliant Orange G, Orange 

GRX, Pyrotin Orange, Orange ENL. 
METANITRAZOTIN. 
ANNATTO. 
SAFFRON. 
SAFFLOWER. 
TURMERIC. 
NAPHTHOL YELLOW S Citronin A, Sulphur yellow S, Anilin 

yellow S, Anilin yellow, Succinin, Saffron yellow, Solid 

yellow, Acid yellow S. 
BRILLIANT YELLOW (Schoelkopf). 
PONCEAU 4 GB Crocein Orange, Brilliant Orange G, Orange 

GRX, Pyrotin Orange, Orange ENL. 
FAST YELLOW Fast yellow G, Fast yellow (greenish), Fast 

yellow S, Acid yellow, New yellow L. 
FAST YELLOW R. 
AZARIN S. 
ORANGE Orange GT, Orange RN, Brilliant Orange O, 

Orange N. 
SPINACH GR^EN. 
CHINESE GREEN. 
MALACHITE GREEN: Malachite green B, Benzaldehyde green, 

New Victoria green, New green, Solid green crystals, Solid 

green O, Diamond green, Diamond green B, Fast green, 

Bitter Almond-oil green. 
DINITROSORESORCIN Solid green O, in paste, Dark green, 

Chlorin, Russia green, Alsace green, Fast green, Resorcinol 

green. 
INDIGO. 
LITMUS. 
ARCHIL BLUE. 



COLORS 77 

( ii MIAN BLUE 6 H Spirit Blue, Spirit Blue FCS, Opal Blue, 

Hessian Blue, Light Blue. 
COUFIER'S Blue Fast blue R and B, Solid blue RR and B, 

Indigin DF, Indulin soluble in alcohol, Indophenin extra, 

Blue CB (soluble in alcohol), Nigrosin (soluble in alcohol). 

IN GENERAL such blue colors as arc derived from Triphenyl- 
rosanilin or from Diphenylamin. 
PARIS VIOLET Methyl violet B BB, Methyl violet V 3, 

Pyoktanin, Malbery blue. 
WOOL BLACK. 
NAPHTHOL BLACK P. 
A/.OBLUE. 
MAUVEIN Rosolan, Violet paste, Chrome violet, Anilin violet, 

Anilin purple, Perkins violet, Indisin, Phenamin, Purpurin, 

Tyralin, Tyrian purple, Lydin. 
CARAMEL. 
LICORICE. 
CHRYSAMIN R. 

The identification of individual colors in mixture with foods 
or beverages is usually difficult, often impossible, with methods 
at present available. It is possible in many cases to distm- 
guish between artificial and natural colors ; for example, to 
determine whether a sample of wine owes its color to a coal- 
tar derivative or to the coloring- matter of the grape. Special 
methods for determining such points will be given in connec- 
tion with examination of articles that are liable to be artifi- 
cially colored. The following general test, known as Arata's 
wool-test, is very serviceable. White wool or woolen cloth 
is cleaned by boiling for a few minutes in water containing 
0.5 per cent, of sodium hydroxid and washed with clean 
water until all alkali is removed. A convenient quantity of 
the substance to be tested (e. g., about 100 grams oi win- 



7 FOOD ANALYSIS 

fruit juice) is mixed with one per cent, of potassium acid sul- 
fate, heated to boiling, the washed wool manipulated in the 
liquid for a few minutes, washed well in boiling water, and 
dried. The natural coloring-matters of wines and fruits leave 
the wool uncolored or give merely a pink or brown tint, 
which is changed to green by ammonium hydroxid and not 
restored by washing with water ; but with many artificial 
colors the wool is dyed to a color which is either not changed 
by ammonium hydroxid or, if changed, is restored by wash- 
ing in water. 

When dyes intended for food-coloring are to be examined 
in bulk, the following methods are advantageous : 

A small quantity of the sample (o. I to 0.25 gram) is heated 
on platinum foil. Nitro-colors show more or less deflagra- 
tion at first. Sulfonated colors form a fusible residue, in 
which the carbon burns with difficulty. It will be advanta- 
geous to add some oxidizing agent (potassium nitrate, potas- 
sium chlorate, or sodium nitrate). It is not necessary to 
burn off all the carbon. The mass is allowed to cool, boiled 
up with water acidulated with hydrochloric acid (this may 
cause the evolution of a little hydrogen sulfid), and barium 
chlorid added. A copious white precipitate will occur if the 
color is a sulfonated one. 

For detection of arsenic the Reinsch test may be applied or 
the color may be examined for all the important poisonous 
metals by the scheme given on page 69. 

Identification of colors may sometimes be accomplished by 
the scheme on pages 80, 81, and 82, which is A. G. Green's 
adaptation of Weingartner's tables. It is reproduced without 
modification of spelling or nomenclature from A. H. Allen's 
"Commercial Organic Analysis," edited by J. M. Matthews. 9 
The reagents required are as follows : 

Tannin solution : Tannin, I gram ; sodium acetate, I gram ; 
water, 10 c.c. 



COLORS 



79 



Zinc if nst. 

Dilute hydrocliloric acid: Hydrochloric acid, 5 c.c. ; water, 
15 c.c. 

Ammonium liydroxid solution. 

Chromic acid solution : Chromic acid, I gram ; water, looc.c. 

Chromic-sulfuric acid solution : Chromic acid, I gram ; 
strong sulfuric acid, 2.5 c.c. ; water, 100 c.c. 

Strong sodium hydroxid solution: Sodium liydroxid, 33 
grams ; water, 67 c.c. 

Dilute sodium hydroxid solution: Sodium hydroxid, 5 
grams ; water, 95 c.c. 

Alcohol. 70 per cent. 

In applying the scheme a primary division is made into 
dyes soluble and insoluble in water. The former are divided 
by means of the tannin solution into the so-called basic and 
acid groups. The dyes which in aqueous solution are precipi- 
tated by tannin solution are termed basic dyes. 

The reduction with zinc dust is best made by adding a little 
of the zinc dust to the hot dyestufif solution contained in a 
test-tube, agitating, and adding- dilute hydrochloric acid drop 
by drop until decolorized. Excess of acid should be care- 
fully avoided. When the color acid is quite insoluble, the 
reduction is made with zinc dust and ammonium hydroxid. 
The reduced solution is decanted upon a small filter ; if the 
color does not return in a few minutes, the paper is moistened 
with chromic acid solution. In the case of acid colors the 
chromic-sulfuric acid solution should be used. As some dyes 
do not show their color in presence of free acids, the paper 
shou^ be exposed to the fumes of strong ammonium hy- 
droxid solution before deciding as to whether the color will 
return. 

Tests adapted to the recognition of colors in particular 
foods will be described in connection with such foods. 



8o 



FOOD ANM.YMS 



M -S] 

"68' 

H o>- 



W S ' 

9 a! 



ill! 

H ^^ -f-i 



M -s *3 
fe'll 2 

ilij 

^ S 

O 3& 

I -C to 

^| 

IS 
il 



ig 

O 3 



8-3 

Krt 



* 
<O O 

MS 

c <u 

r 



v _j O>, 

"c"c S ."o 



. 

o!*. ciaj 3 
"- 



<s 



o 3 



. .; 



Ilil 



C)l.nk> 



Si 



81 

-I! 



c a. 

:-i 



= ~ 



= -.i = 

- = - = 
-C '5f2 



S*5 



i. BB-a 

v " S s 

riH 

ii -i-a 

?4li 

* lr= 

N* * S 



-1 = 

fl J 

n 

li^ 



- B iC 



.3 'E S 1 a "3 



,2 o * D.C 



II 

11 



r ?'<.-.> 



. CC el 

frfjjf 

liiil 

"S^S 8 > 
M U 



111! 






i* : 



C -T3 

S ^ C - 

|S^I 

.IS 



I- 

il 

C 2 

I* 
I 




s|!|i'*rf 

6C^' " g 

*5='s P 

<c C i i; 

5*= ? 



5 

o 

a 

: 

- 






i*11 1!1 

P v. - c -^_- /- ^CS 




82 



FOOD AXALVSI." 



1 -J 






og 


O 03 






a* "3 


g, 5 






3^ 


3 S fl 

311 






s " 


q . 






t< M 

-a 


* 










c 


S 


<n 


d 








s . 


C w 

S.S 


1 V. 


| 






. 


11 


i 


<-. c 


a 






g 


??5 





"ft O 


Vi 






R 


"Tg 


E 


CO 


03 
I 


0> 







5 M 






K 


3 




3 
SP 


""o 

OJ3 






"S *~* 




a 


'C O 






. | 


g 




o 


I'a 


S . 


g 





S 


^J 


3 


03 
O Q) 


S"S 


PS 


< 

8 

?* M 

5 


r remains 


it. alcoho 


1 


1" 
s 


Fluoresc 
destroy 


5 
"3 

8 




o 


0) 




O 






M "*"" 


I 


6 










NSOLCBL] 
ew drops ( 


Si 

a 

H 


ft 
S 

c 




cent.) to 


altered. 


iit : ' - 


i i - 




3 


"2 


i- -' 


o 


p, i-i C 







3 


B 


X o 


a 


"' S 














O C B 







5 


8 


??2 


S 


S 1 s 








o 




"3 


3 


tH QJ 






3 


o! 


o 


0) 


ffi CS 






<n 


"S-- 






Q ^ 






'o 

c 


11 






1 -t " 

* 






a 
o 


w_8 


Sg 


js _a 








B 


m 


S i 


o a> S " 


MH *j 






3 





s s 


.5 .5 s 5 


- 1 

n 






1 


I 5 

3 
o 


8 1 ? 

II 


| 1 | 3 


.2 








03 




w ^y 


O <u 

1 








a 
o 


og 


o 


The powder or j 


i 
1 


is heated with zinc 
, and a drop is put 


Decolorized or 
changed to brown. 
The original color 
does not reappear 
on exposure to air. 


S 5 c' 3 & . ^ 

1 ' g S 1 ?| II .3 a 
.g ft o o >"cg a ^ K 

U f 1 I i III i I * I 1 

= B = ; a 5 " * a 




*o 


c - 








The color 


he alkaline solutio 
<lii.st and anmioni; 
on niter-paper. 


eoolorized or 
'hanged to light- 
ttrown. The orig- 
inal color returns 
very quickly on 
exposure to air. 


M ^ J< C 

c * d w < 5 ~ 






H a 


** 



PRESERVATIVES 83 

PRESERVATIVES 

The decomposition of food is prevented by sterilization or 
by addition of antiseptics. Numerous food-preservatives are 
now in use. Some e. g., common salt, niter, acetic acid, and 
wood smoke have been known from early times and are still 
in vogue. Among the more important of the newer forms are 
salicylic acid, benzoic acid, sodium ben/.oate, beta-naphthol, 
saccharin, abrastol, formaldehyde, fluorids, silicofluorids, sul- 
fites, boric acid, and borax. Other forms, principally synthetic 
coal-tar derivatives, have been suggested and, to a limited 
extent, used. Most acids are antiseptic. 

Each of the substances above enumerated has special adap- 
tabilities ; some of them are widely applicable, and hence are 
largely used. Most of the permissible food-preservatives are 
not distinctly germicidal and must remain in the food if con- 
tinued preservation is desired. 

Salicylic acid maybe obtained from natural sources, but the 
artificial product made from phenol is almost always used. It 
is apt to contain injurious by-products. The commercial 
article is a white crystalline powder, soluble in about 500 parts 
by weight of cold water, and more freely soluble in a solution 
of borax and in alcohol, ether, or petroleum spirit. The last 
two liquids extract it from an acidified watery solution. It 
distils in a current of steam. Its most characteristic reaction 
is the violet color produced with ferric chlorid. 

Sodium benzoate, now largely prepared from the artificial 
acid, derived from toluene, is usually sold as a granular white 
powder* which has a slight aromatic odor and a nauseous taste. 
The latter is of some advantage, since it prevents too liberal 
use in food articles. It is freely soluble in water and has 
marked antiseptic qualities. In the United States, sodium 
benzoate is the most common preservative for catsups, jams, 
jellies, mince-meat, and preserves. 



84 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Benzole acid is not frequently used in food articles, but some 
of it may be formed from sodium benzoate by the action of acids 
or acid salts in the food. It is necessary, however, to insure 
the liberation of the benzoic acid when testing for it by the 
addition of sulfuric acid. 

Saccharin. Commercial saccharin is somewhat variable in 
composition. It is a white, crystalline, intensely sweet 
powder, soluble in 1000 parts of cold and 100 parts of boil- 
ing water. It is more soluble, in alcohol, glycerol, and ether, 
and very slightly soluble in chloroform, benzene, and petro- 
leum spirit. Ether removes it from its aqueous solutions. 
Pure saccharin is slightly volatile at 100 and leaves no ash, 
but impurities may be present in the form of sodium salts, 
and considerable ash, principally sodium sulfate, may be left 
upon ignition. 

ft-naphthol is a white crystalline powder, slightly soluble in 
water, freely in alcohol, ether, chloroform, benzene, fats, and 
alkaline solutions. It is wholly volatile on ignition. It is 
liable to contain small amounts of the more toxic isomeric 
form, a-naphthoh The so-called hydronaphthol is substanti- 
ally the same as ; 9-naphthol. 

Abrastol or asaprol (calcium /3-naphthol-a-monosulfonate) 
is a colorless or light reddish powder freely soluble in water 
or alcohol. 

Formaldehyde is a gas freely soluble in water, from which 
solution a polymeric modification is easily obtained as a white 
solid, volatilized only at a temperature above the boiling- 
point of water. Formaldehyde is principally sold as a 40 per 
cent, watery solution designated by the copyrighted name 
"formalin." More dilute solutions are sold under a variety 
of fanciful and misleading names. The 40 per cent, solution 
is a colorless liquid with a slight and not disagreeable odor 
and a faint acid reaction, the last property being probably due 
to small amounts of formic or acetic acid produced by oxida- 



PRESERVATIVES 85 

tion. When this solution is boiled, the formaldehyde distils 
readily with the steam ; but if the fresh distillate be evapo- 
rated at a lower temperature, as, for example, on a shallow 
dish placed over boiling water, a large part is converted into 
the solid form. All the modifications of formaldehyde have 
active reducing qualities and exhibit strong tendency to com- 
bine with proteids so as to form insoluble bodies. A small 
percentage of formaldehyde, for example, will cause a gelatin 
solution to solidify so that the mass cannot be melted at any 
temperature below that of destructive decomposition. In the 
preservation of food the commercial formalin is almost ex- 
clusively used. 

Sidfites. The acid salts are more active than the neutral 
form and are more used. Calcium sulfite is also frequently 
employed. * Sulfites are white solids freely soluble in water 
and glycerol, but not appreciably in alcohol, or the solvents 
immiscible with water. Their antiseptic action being strongly 
exerted upon yeast, they have been used largely to control or 
prevent alcoholic fermentation. The detection of sulfites 
being based upon the recognition of the sulfurous acid derived 
from them, a specific description of each will not be needed. 

Boric acid and borax. The observations of R. T. Thomson 
have shown that, at least with milk, a mixture of. these sub- 
stances is more efficient than either alone, and the two are 
very frequently sold in mixture under trade names, such as 
" Preservaline " and " Rex Magnus." They are also used 
separately, boric acid being the more common. Both are 
white powders soluble in water ; borax is practically insolu- 
ble in alcohol, boric acid freely soluble. Both are non- volatile 
at a red heat, but a watery solution of boric acid cannot be 
evaporated without considerable of the acid passing off with 
the steam. Borax has an alkaline reaction ; boric acid is 
acid to litmus, but turns turmeric paper brown when its solu- 
tion is evaporated on it. From a solution of boric acid in 



86 FOOD ANALYSIS 

methyl alcohol the whole of the acid may be obtained by 
distillation, which is utilized in the determination. 

When boric acid is heated with glycerol, tritenyl borate i.j 
produced as a thick sirup miscible in all proportions with cold 
water and decomposed by hot water. By evaporation it can 
be obtained in the form of a transparent, glassy, brittle mass 
which absorbs water readily. A preparation made by dis- 
solving borax in glycerol has also been offered as a preserva- 
tive, but is little used. These glycerol preparations have been 
sold under various names, such as " boroglyceride " and 
" glyceride of boric acid." 

Fluorids, borofluorids, and silicofluorids. Of these, the sodium 
and potassium compounds have been principally used, being 
among the few forms soluble in water. They are white 
powders, not volatile at a red heat. 

Detection of Preservatives. Owing to the difference in 
the chemical character of preservatives and of the food articles 
in which they are used, few general methods can be given ; 
the examination must be conducted with reference to the 
material likely to be present. The following are suggestions 
in this direction : In meats, boric acid ; in milk and milk prod- 
ucts, formaldehyde and boric acid, occasionally salicylic acid. 
In jams, jellies, mince-meat, and table delicacies, benzoic and 
salicylic acids or their salts ; occasionally boric acid. In cider 
and some other fruit juices, salicylic acid and sulfites. In fer- 
mented beverages and malt extracts, salicylic acid, sulfites, 
fluorids, silicofluorids, borofluorids ; abrastol may be employed, 
but the data in regard to it are limited. Saccharin is likely to 
be present in beers, wines, and sweetened articles. 

Benzoic and salicylic acids and their salts may often be de- 
tected by shaking the material with a mixture of equal parts 
of ether and petroleum spirit. A little sulfuric acid should be 
added if the material is not already distinctly acid. If the extrac- 



PRESERVATIVES 87 

tion be repeated with several portions of the solvent, an approxi- 
mate quantitative determination may be made. The shaking 
must be vigorous, so as to bring the solvent in contact with all 
parts of the sample. In many cases this will produce an emul- 
sion which separates very slowly. The application of the cen- 
trifugal method will be useful in this case. The addition of more 
of the solvent and the cooling of the material is also advised. 

The following descriptions are adapted especially to the 
conditions under which the different preservatives are likely 
to be found. As they are all somewhat soluble in water, solid 
or semi-solid materials may be exhausted with water and the 
liquid concentrated at a low temperature. In many cases the 
sample may be strained through muslin and the tests applied 
to the filtrate. 

The volatility of some preservatives, especially in a current 
of steam, is occasionally serviceable. Formaldehyde may be 
thus obtained from milk. Henzoic acid and saccharin may be 
separated by mixing about 200 grams of the sample with 5 c.c. 
of a 20 per cent, solution of phosphoric acid, and distilling 
nearly to dryness. The benxoic acid distils, while the saccha- 
rin remains in the flask. A'current of steam passing through 
the distilling flask is still more efficient. 

Salicylir acid. This is usually detected by extraction with 
an immiscible solvent as noted above. 25 to 50 c.c. of the 
sample are rendered feebly acid with a few drops of sulfuric 
acid and shaken vigorously with about an equal bulk of a 
mixture of equal parts of ether and petroleum spirit, the 
liquids are allowed to separate, as much as possible of the 
solvent is drawn off, filtered, and evaporated at a gentle heat. 
When salicylic acid has been added as a preservative, distinct 
needle-like crystals will be usually seen. A few drops of 
water should be added and then a drop of ferric chlorid solu- 
tion. The reaction of salicylic acid is distinct. When a crys- 
talline deposit cannot be obtained, a larger quantity of the 



FOOD ANALYSIS 

sample may be concentrated at a gentle heat and extracted as 
above. 

Saccharin. A suitable amount of the sample (50 or 100 
c.c.) is acidified with dilute (25 per cent.) sulfuric acid and 
extracted with a mixture of equal parts of petroleum spirit 
boiling below 60 and ether. The solvent is evaporated at a 
gentle heat. The presence of saccharin in the residue may 
be detected by the taste. 2 c.c. of a saturated solution of 
sodium hydroxid are added and the dish heated until the residue 
dries and the mass fuses, and maintained thus for half an hour. 
The saccharin is converted into salicylic acid, which may be 
detected in the residue by acidulating it with sulfuric acid and 
applying the ferric chlorid test. If salicylic acid be present 
originally in the sample, the residue from the petroleum spirit 
and ether solution is. dissolved in 50 c.c. of dilute hydrochloric 
acid, bromin water added in excess, the liquid shaken well, 
and filtered. Salicylic acid is completely removed as a 
brominated derivative. The filtrate is made strongly alkaline 
with sodium hydroxid, evaporated, and fused as described 
above. 

Benzole acid and benzoatcs. E. Mohler's method : * About 
100 grams of the sample are made alkaline with sodium 
hydroxid and evaporated to a paste, which is then acidified 
with hydrochloric acid, mixed with sand, and extracted with 
ether. The ether is evaporated spontaneously, the residue 
moistened with 2 c.c. of sulfuric acid, heated until acid vapors 
escape (at about 240), and a few decigrams of sodium 
nitrate added in small portions, until the liquid becomes color- 
less. The liquid is poured into excess of ammonium hydroxid 
and a drop of ammonium sulfid solution added. Benzoic acid 
is indicated by a yellow, changing to reddish-brown. 

Peter's method : x 1 The material is made slightly acid and 
extracted with chloroform, which is then evaporated sponta- 
neously. The vessel containing the residue is placed in 



PRESERVATIVES 89 

melting ice, 2 c.c. of sulfuric acid added, and stirred until the 
residue is dissolved. Barium dioxid is dusted into the mass, 
with constant stirring, until the liquid begins to foam, when 3 
c.c. of hydrogen dioxid (3 per cent.) are added drop by drop. 
The dish is then removed from the cold bath, the contents 
diluted with water to convenient bulk, and filtered. The acid 
filtrate is extracted with chloroform. The ben zoic acid will 
have been converted into salicylic acid by the process and the 
latter may be detected by ferric chloric!. 

Boric acid and borax. These may be detected in many 
food-articles, especially milk and milk products, by the follow- 
ing test: A few drops of the sample or of a solution obtained 
by shaking some of it in water are mixed with a drop of 
strong hydrochloric acid and a drop of strong alcoholic solu- 
tion of turmeric, evaporated to dryness at a gentle heat, and 
a drop of ammonium hydroxid added to the residue when 
cold. A dull green stain shows that boric acid is present. 

Boric acid is a normal constituent of wine, and hence a 
qualitative test in such case is of no value. The following 
approximate quantitative test is recommended by W. D. Bige- 
low : A series of solutions containing amounts of boric acid 
from o.ooi to 0.020 gram in dilute hydrochloric acid (i part 
of strong acid to I 5 parts of water) is prepared. A drop of 
each solution is evaporated on a piece of turmeric paper 2 cm. 
square and the color noted, care being taken that the drops 
are uniform. 50 c.c. of the wine are made slightly alkaline 
with calcium hydroxid solution, evaporated to dryness, and 
burned to an ash. 3 c.c. of water are added to the ash and 
then half-strength hydrochloric acid drop by drop until the 
liquid is acid. The solution is then made up to 5 c.c. with 
hydrochloric acid one-sixth the strength of the strong acid, 
the mass mixed, and a drop tested on a piece of turmeric 
paper and compared with the standards. If stronger than a 



9O FOOD ANALYSIS 

standard which is of characteristic tint, the liquid should be 
diluted with the I to i 5 hydrochloric acid and again tested. 

Fluorids. 100 grams of the sample are made slightly alka- 
line with ammonium carbonate, heated to boiling, a few centi- 
meters of calcium chlorid solution added, and heating con- 
tinued for 5 minutes. The precipitate is collected, washed, 
dried, transferred to a platinum crucible, and ignited. When 
the mass is cold, a few drops of strong sulfuric acid are 
added, and the crucible covered with a piece of glass partly 
protected on the lower side by paraffin. The bottom of the 
crucible is then heated for an hour at a temperature between 
75 and 80. The glass is etched if fluorids are present. 

Boroflnorids and silicoflnorids. 200 grams of the sample 
are made alkaline with calcium hydroxid solution, evaporated 
to dryness, incinerated, and the ash extracted with sufficient 
acetic acid to decompose carbonates. The residue is col- 
lected on a filter, washed, again extracted with acetic acid, 
and filtered. The filtrate contains any boric acid that may be 
present and is tested for this substance as directed on page 
89. The insoluble residue contains the calcium silicate and 
calcium fluorid. The filter and residue are ashed, a portion 
of the mass mixed with a little precipitated silica and 2 c.c. 
of sulfuric acid, and placed in a short test-tube to which is 
attached a small U-tube containing a few drops of water. 
The test-tube is heated cautiously in a water-bath ; any sili- 
con fluorid that may be formed from fluorin present will pro- 
duce a gelatinous deposit in the U-tube. If boric acid has 
been found in the filtrate noted above, it may be assumed that 
any fluorin is in the form of borofluorid ; but if boric acid is 
not present, the other portion of the ash from the filter and 
residue is treated with sulfuric acid without previous addition 
of silica. If gelatinous silicic acid be formed, the compound 
was originally silicofluorid. 

Formaldehyde. The tests for formaldehyde have been 



PRESERVATIVES gi 

mostly adapted to its detection in milk. It is not likely to 
be used as a general food-preservative. It may be obtained 
pure by distillation of the sample, especially in a current of 
steam. An investigation by N. I^eonard, H. M. Smith, and 
H. D. Richmond showed that with ordinary aqueous solu- 
tions about 30 per cent, of the formaldehyde has passed over 
when 20 per cent, of the liquid has been distilled, and nearly 
50 per cent, when 40 per cent, of the liquid has been dis- 
tilled. 

For methods of detecting formaldehyde see under" Milk." 

For detection of sulfites see under " Alcoholic Beverages." 

$-naphthol. Several allied antiseptics of this type may be 

detected by the following method : 200 grams of the sample 

are acidified with sulfuric acid and distilled with open steam 

until I 50 c.c. of distillate are obtained. This liquid is shaken 

with 20 c.c. of chloroform, the latter withdrawn, rendered 

alkaline with potassium hydroxid, and heated almost to boiling 

for a few minutes. Color changes occur as follows : 

Salol, light red. 

Phenol, "light red, to brown, to colorless. 

A naphthol, deep blue, to green, to brown. 

A portion of the distillate may be tested as follows : 25 c.c. 
are made faintly alkaline with ammonium hydroxid, then 
faintly acid with nitric acid, and a drop of strong sodium 
nitrate solution added, ,3-naphthol develops a rose-color. The 
reaction is rather uncertain, and appears to be affected by 
Might. 



SPECIAL METHODS 

STARCH 
Detection. 

The reaction with iodin affords a delicate method for detect- 
ing starch. The color is shown by the undissolved material, 
but it is more satisfactory to dissolve it by boiling with water, 
allowing the solution to cool and adding the iodin, preferably as 
potassium iodid-iodin solution (p. 35). If the proportion of 
starch be large, an almost black precipitate will be formed. 
The depth of color will be some indication of the amount 
present, but exact determinations cannot be made by this 
method. 

In the undissolved condition, starch may be recognized 
under the microscope and its botanical source usually deter- 
mined. A magnifying power of from 200 to 300 diameters 
will be required. The characteristics of the granules are seen 
more vividly by mounting them in a dense medium such as 
chloral hydrate solution or glycerol (p. 35) and arranging the 
reflecting mirror so as to throw an oblique light upon the 
object. By this means distinct markings, termed the hilum 
and concentric rings, are recognized. If the chloral-hydrate 
iodin solution (p. 35) be employed for mounting, or if a drop 
of the potassium iodid-iodin solution be introduced under the 
cover of a glycerol or water mounting, the granules will 
become blue. 

With polarized light, many starches show on the dark field 
i. e., with crossed Nicols dark bands radiating from the hilum 
in four directions, giving the appearance of a Maltese cross. 
For this examination the object is mounted uncolored in one 
of the denser media and the light thrown directly from below. 

92 



STARCH 93 

By inserting a selenite plate between the object and the lower 
Nicol, colors will be produced with many starches. Muter 
employed a selenite giving a green field, but red and red-violet 
fields are also suitable. The successful application of these 
optic methods requires good apparatus and considerable prac- 
tice. A careful study of starch-granules of authentic origin 
should always be made before deciding as to the nature of 
any specimen. 

A synopsis of the characters of the principal starches is pre- 
sented in the annexed tables. A micron (o.ooi millimeter) 
may be converted into thousandths of an inch by multiplying 
by 0.03937. The factor 0.04 will be near enough for most 
cases. The classification is essentially that of Muter, the basis 
being the predominating form of the granule, the distinctness 
and position of the hilum and markings, the appearance under 
polarized light, with or without selenite plate. Muter indi- 
cated five groups, each group designated by the name of an 
important type of starch, as follows : 

POTATO GROUP. Oval or ovate granules, showing hilum 
and concentric rings clearly, 'cross and colors usually distinct. 

LEGUME GROUP. Round or oval granules, hilum marked, 
rings faint, but rendered visible in cases by chromic acid solu- 
tion, cross and colors feeble. 

WHEAT GROUP. Round or oval granules, hilum and rings 
generally invisible, feebly-marked cross and colors. 

SAGO GROUP. Truncated granules, hilum distinct, faint 
rings, cross and colors fairly marked. 

RICE GROUP. Polygonal granules, hilum distinct, rings 
faint, cross and colors usually faint. 

In the description of individual starches, the term " eccen- 
tric " denotes that the hilum is not in the apparent center of 
the granule. The form of the granule is usually given as 
oval, spherical, polygonal, etc., terms which are strictly appli- 
cable to surfaces and not to solids. It will be understood, 



94 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



therefore, that such terms refer to the apparent cross-section 
of the granule as it is usually viewed. The dimensions given 
must be regarded as general ; granules not included within 
the limits will often be found. Polarized light is affected to 
some extent by almost all starcn granules, if very close ob- 
servation be made. 



SOURCE. 


SIZE IN 
MICRONS. 


GENERAL CHARACTER 
OF GRANULES. 


WITH POLARIZER. 


Without Selenite. 


With Selenite. 


Potato, . . . 


60-100 


Smallergranulesjound, 


Well-marked 


Well-marked 






large ones ovate ; hi- 


cross. 


colors. 




" 


lum a spot, eccentric ; 










rings numerous and 






complete. 






Canna, . . . 


45135 Irregular ovate ; hilum 


Well-marked 


Well-marked 






annular, eccentric ; 


cross. 


colors. 






rings incomplete, 








narrow and regular. 




Maranta, . . 


10-70 Ovate ; hilum eccen- 


Well-marked 


Well-marked 






trie, circular or linear, 


cross. 


colors. 






often cracked ; rings 










numerous, not very 










distinct ; sometimes 










a projection at one 










end. 






Natal arrow- 










root, .... 


35-40 


Ovate to circular, ir- 


Well-marked 


Well-marked 







regular projections ; 


cross. 


colors. 






hilum eccentric, 










cracked ; rings dis- 










tinct. 




Turmeric, . . 


30-60 


Ovate, often much nar- 


Well-marked Well-marked 






rowed at one end ; 


cross. 


colors 






hilum eccentric, dot- 










like ; rings indistinct. 


. 




Ginger, . . . 


40 


Ovate, many with a 


Faint cross. Faint colors. 






projection on one end ; 








hilum and rings 






scarcely visible. 




Mother-cloves, 


20-60 


Ovate ; hilum a dis- 


Well-marked Well -mark. J 






tinct spot, eccentric ; 


cross. colors. 






rings visible. 




Banana, . . . 


40-80 


Ovate but often very 


Faint cross. Faint colors. 






narrow in proportion 








to length; hilum a 








spot, eccentric ; rings 




distinct. 





STARCH 



95 



SOURCE. 


Si/i IN 
MICRONS. 


GKNKRAL CHARACTER 
OF GRANULES. 


WITH POLARIZKR. 


Without Selenite. With Selcnite. 


Bean, .... 


35 


Kenifonn or ovate; Cross indistinct, 
hilum stellate or fur- 


Colors very 
faint. 






row-like ; rings very 










Taint. 




Pea 


15-3 


Reniform or ovate ; hi Cfoss indistinct. 


Colors very 






lum elongated ; rings 


faint. , 






very faint. 




Lentil, . . . 


30 


Reniform or ovate , Cross indistinct. 


Colors very 






hilum elongated, dis-. 


faint. 






tinct ; rings visible. 




Nutmeg, . . 


5-50 


Rounded, collected in Cross faint. 


Colors very 






groups of two to four ; 


faint. 






lulinu stellate ; rings 








invisible. 




Wheat, . . . 


2-50 


Mostly roundish, chief- Cross not well 


Colors very 






ly the smallest and marked. 


faint. 






largest sizes present ; 










hilum indistinct, near- 










ly central ; rings in- 










distinct. 






Barley, . . . 


15-40 


Resembles wheat but 


Cross not well 


Colors very 






some granules slightly 


marked. 


faint. 






angular or elliptical ; 








rings more distinct 


* 








than wheat. 






Rye 


20-60 


Resembles wheat ; hi- 


Cross not well 


Colors very 






lum distinct, stellate; marked. 


faint. 






rings often visible. 








Distorted forms not 










infrequently occur. 






Acorn, . . . 


20 


Round or nearly so; Cr<>s> ini well 


Colors not well 






hilum eccentric. marked. 


marked. 


Cacao, . . . 


5-io 


Round ; hilum and Cross not well 


Colors not well 






rings indistinct. 


marked. 


marked. 


Sago, .... 


25-66 


Ovate, truncated ; hi- 


Well-marked 


Well-marked 






lum a circle or spot ; 


cross. 


colors. 






rings faint. 






Prepared sago, 




Characters less dis- 










tinct than in raw 










sago. 






Tapioca, . . 


8-22 


Circular ; hilum a slit, 


Well marked 


Well-marked 






nearly central. 


cross. 


colors 


Prepared tapi- 










oca, .... 




Characters less distinct 










than in raw form. 






Cinnamon, 


8-20 


Truncated at one end, 


Well marked 


Well marked 






two to four granules 


cross. 


colors. 






often joined ; hilum 






di-tinct, nearly cen- 






tral ; rings invisible. 







9 6 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



SOURCE. 


SIZE IN 
MICRONS. 


GENERAL CHARACTER 
OF GRANULES. 


WITH POLARIZER. 


Without Selenite. 


With Selenite. 


Rice, .... 


5-10 


Pentagonal, hexagonal, 


Cross distinct, 


Colors distinct. 






occasionally triangu- 


well marked. 








lar with sharp angles ; 










hilum distinct under 










high power. 






Buckwheat, . 


5-20 


Polygonal, angles 


Cross distinct. 


Colors distinct. 






somewhat rounded ; 










hilum central, spot or 










star ; granules often 










compound. 


Oat, .... 


5-30 


Mostly polygonal, a Faint cross. 


Faint colors. 






few spherical ; hilum 










and rings visible only 










with high power; 










often compound. 


Maize, . . . 


5-20 


Round to polygonal, Faint cross. Faint colors. 






angles usually round- 










ed; hilum central, 










crack or star; rings 








nearly invisible. 


Pepper, . . . 


0-5-5 


Polygonal, very small, Cross with high 


Color with high 






sometimes showing power. 


power. 







Brownian movement, 








sometimes united into 








large irregular masses; 








hilum only seen with 










high power. 







(See plates in Appendix. ) 
Determination. 

The exact quantitative determination of starch is difficult. 
The proposed methods have been carefully investigated by 
H. W. Wiley and W. H. Krug, who have shown that in the 
presence of vegetable tissue containing pentosans or similar 
carbohydrates the diastase method is alone trustworthy. The 
first method is applicable to the examination of commercial 
starches. 

HYDROCHLORIC ACID METHOD. 3 grams of the substance 
are treated with about 50 c.c. of cold water for an hour, with 
frequent stirring ; the residue is collected on a filter and 
washed with sufficient water to make a total of 250 c.c. This 



STARCH 



97 



liquid contains the soluble carbohydrates. The undissolved 
residue is heated for 2^ hours with 2.5 per cent, hydro- 
chloric acid (200 c.c. water and 20 c.c. hydrochloric acid, sp. 
gr. 1. 125) in a flask provided with a reflux condenser, cooled, 
neutralized with sodium carbonate, made up to 250 c.c., 
filtered, and the dextrose determined in an aliquot portion of 
the filtrate. The weight of dextrose multiplied by 0.9 gives 
the weight of starch. 

DIASTASE METHOD. 3 grams of the finely-powdered sub- 
stance are extracted on a hardened filter with five successive 
portions of 10 c.c. of ether, washed with 150 c.c. of a 10 per 
cent, alcohol, and then with a little strong alcohol. The 

o 

residue is mixed in a beaker with 50 c.c. of water. The 
beaker is immersed in boiling water, the contents stirred 
constantly until all the starch is gelatinized, cooled to 55, 
and 30 c.c. of malt-extract added. The liquid is maintained 
at 55 until a microscopic examination of the residue shows 
no starch with iodin. It is cooled and made up directly to 250 
c.c. and filtered. 200 c.c. &( the filtrate are placed in a flask 
with 20 c.c. of a 25 per cent, solution of hydrochloric acid (sp. 
gr. 1.125), connected with a reflux condenser, and heated 
in boiling water for 2 */ hours. It is nearly neutralized, while 
hot, with sodium carbonate, made up to 500 c.c., mixed, 
poured through a dry filter, and the dextrose determined in 
an aliquot part. Convert the dextrose into starch by the 
factor 0.9. 

l^reparation of Malt Extract. 10 grams of fresh, finely 
ground malt are macerated overnight at about 25 with 200 
c.c. of water, filtered, the amount of dextrose in a given 
quantity of the filtrate after boiling with acid determined as 
in the starch determination, and the proper correction noted. 
If diastase be used, a correction will be unnecessary. A good 
di istase is now easily obtainable. Commercial malt extracts 
,uc liable to be destitute of diastatic power. 
9 



98 FOOD ANALYSIS 

In the application of the diastatic method, the material 
must be ground very fine and the preliminary extraction with 
ether must not be omitted. In many cases it will be more 
convenient to make the extraction in the continuous extractor. 
If a large tube be used, several samples may be treated at 
once by tying each in filter-paper. The centrifugal apparatus 
may also be used. The fine material is shaken up with ether 
in the proper tubes, whirled for a short time, the ether poured 
off, fresh ether added and again whirled, and the operation re- 
peated until the necessary amount of solvent has been used. 
The liquid may be poured off closely each time. 

FLOURS AND MEALS 

Meal is coarsely ground, flour is finely ground material. 
Most of the forms used as foods are derived from plants be- 
longing to the order Graminea, but buckwheat, banana, and 
potato are not of this class. The distinction between the 
different flours and meals is based in part on the microscopic 
characters of the starches as indicated under that head, but 
chemical tests are in some cases available. The proteids of 
wheat flour have been studied by T. B. Osborne and E. B. 
Voorhees. The most important are gliadin and glntcnin. 
Gliadin, which constitutes nearly half the proteid matter of 
the grain, is soluble in dilute alcohol. Glutenin is insoluble 
in water, dilute saline solutions, and dilute alcohol. Gluten is 
composed of gliadin and glutenin in nearly equal proportions. 
The gliadin forms the sticky substance of the gluten, while 
the glutenin imparts to it its solidity. Gluten can not well be 
formed from its constituents by the action of pure water, as 
gliadin is quite soluble in that menstruum and thus is easily 
removed. The mineral salts of the wheat, however, form 
with distilled water a medium in which the gliadin is scarcely 
soluble, and under these circumstances the gluten is produced. 

The commercial value of wheat flour depends upon its 



STARCH 



99 



color and texture and upon quantity and quality of gluten. 
The latter differs much in different varieties and in the same 
variety grown in different localities. In whole-wheat flour 
containing about 10 per cent, of gluten the quantities of the 
chief proteids are about as follows : 

Globulin 0.70 

Albumin, 0.40 

Proteose, 0.30 

Gliadin, 4.25 

Glutenin, 4-35 

Good wheat flour will yield from 20 to 40 per cent, moist 
gluten and 10 to 18 per cent, gluten dried at 100. Rye flour 
contains gliadin, but no glutenin. 

COMPOSITION OF CEREAL GRAINS 





WEIGHT 












CAR- 
BO HV- 

DRATKS 
OTHER 




OF 1OO 












THAN 




KKRNKLS 


MOIST- 


6.25 


ETHER 


CRUDE 




CRUDE 




IN GRAMS. 


URE. 


N. 


EXTRACT. 


KlBKR. 


ASH. 


FlBKR. 


Typical u n h u 1 1 e d 
















barley, 




10.85- 


I l.O 


2.25 


385 


3-5 


69-55 


Typical American 
















maize, 


38.0 


10 75 


IO.O 


4.25 


1.75 


'5 


71-75 


Typical wheat, . . . 


3.85 


10 6 


12.25 


-75 


2-4 


"75 




Sweet corn, 19 sam- 
















ples (Richardson), 




8.44 


11.48 


8-57 


2.82 


1-97 


66.72 


Typical American 
buckwheat 


3-0 


I2.O 


10.75 


2.0 


JO-75 


-75 


6275 


Typical rye, .... 


2.5 


-5 


12.25 


1-5 


2.1 


1-9 


71.75 


Typical u n h u 1 1 e d 
















oats, 


3.0 


1O.O 


12 O 


4-5 


I2.O 


3-4 


58.0 


Typical rice, UH- 
















'hulleil . . 


1 O 


10.5 


7-5 


1.6 


9.0 


4.0 


67.4 


Typical rice, hulled. 


' 














but unpolished, . . 


2.5 


12.0 


8.0 


2.0 


l.O 


l.O 


76.0 


Typical rice, pol- 
















ished, 


2.2 


1 -' 4 


7-5 


0.4 


4 


0.5 


78.8 


Typical rye 


2-5 


>0-5 


12.25 


5 


2.1 


'9 


71.7 


Typical wheat, . . . 


3.85 


10.6 


12.25 


'75 


2-4 


'75 


71.25 



A detailed description of the proteid and other constituents 
of cereal grains has been published by the United States De- 
partment of Agriculture. The annexed table has been taken 



IOO FOOD ANALYSIS 

from this. The proteids are calculated by multiplying the 
nitrogen by the factor 6.25, but the investigations by T. B. 
Osborne, R. H. Chittenden, and E. B. Voorhees indicate that 
the following factors would be better: Maize, 6.23; barley, 
rye, and wheat, each 5.68 ; oats, 6.10. The proteids of rice 
and buckwheat have not been fully studied. A recalculation of 
the proteids by corrected factors will change the proportions of 
the carbohydrates, since these were determined by difference. 

Wheat Flour. Good wheat flour is a fine white powder 
with a very faint yellow tinge. Several tests are recognized 
for its examination, among which are the following : 

Color Test. The sample may be compared with one of 
known quality by laying out heaps of equal size, say, 3 cm. 
by 8 cm., and 0.5 cm. deep. If this be done on a colorless 
glass plate, the examination may be made with both white 
and colored background, and the plate may subsequently be 
immersed in water (not over 35) so that the colors produced 
on wetting may also be observed. 

Doughing Test. This consists in making a dough with 1 5 
grams of the sample and 10 c.c. of water and comparing color, 
firmness, elasticity, and compactness. 

Gluten Test. 10 grams of the sample are mixed with suf- 
ficient water to make a stiff dough and allowed to stand for 
one hour. The mass is kneaded in a piece of linen in running 
water until the washings are clear. The fresh gluten thus 
obtained should have a faint yellow tinge, be tough and of 
such consistency that it can be pulled out into threads. Gray 
and red glutens indicate inferior samples. Good gluten swells 
at 1 50 and assumes the appearance of bread. 

ADULTERATIONS. Flour may be mixed with mineral 
matters to increase weight, with alum or copper sulfate to 
improve its appearance, or with cheaper flours or starches. 
It may also contain seeds of weeds, may be damp or decom- 
posed, or may contain fungi. 



STARCH 



101 



Iii examining for these adulterations, determinations of ash, 
crude fiber, ether extract, and total nitrogen are of consider- 
able value. The following table gives some data on these 
points, but the limits must not be rigidly interpreted. The 
figures, except the first column, have been calculated on the 
water-free substance : 

COMPOSITION OF FLOURS 





MOISTURE. 


ASH. 6.25 N. 


FIBER. 


ETHER 
EXTRACT. 


N-FRKK 

EXIRACT. 




Max. 


Min. 


Max. 


Min. 


Max. 


Min. 


Max. 


Min. 


Max. 


Min. 


Max. Min. 


Wheat, . 
Rye 


15.0 


9.0 


0.8 


0-3 


15.0 


8.0 
6 o 


I.O 

o 6 


O.I 


2.O 


0.5 


90.0 82.0 


Karlev 


IC.O 


IO.O 


2.O 


I O ' 120 


8-5 


06 










Buckwheat, . 18.0 


"5 


1-5 


o.S 


9-5 


5.0 


0.6 


0.3 


2.O 


0.8 


93 84.0 


Rice '5-O 




O6 












O6 






Oat (meal). . 10.0 


6.0 


2-4 


2.0 


18.0 


14.0 


1.4 


o-7 


9-5 


6.S 


76.0 72.0 


Maize (meal), 


18.0 


8.0 


4-5 


I.O 


11.5 


8.0 3.5 


0.7 


6.0 


2-5 


80.0 63.0 


Graham, . . . 


15-0 


It.O 


2.2 


1.8 


15.0 


IO.O 


24 


2.0 


2.2 


1-9 


72.0 70.0 



ALUM. 

Logivood Method. An alkaline solution of logwood is pre- 
pared as follows : Haifa granrof fine logwood chips, preferably 
freshly cut from the log, is macerated for 10 hours in 15 c.c. of 
alcohol ; 10 c.c. of the solution are poured off and mixed with 
150 c.c. of water and 10 c.c. of a saturated solution of am- 
monium carbonate. To make the test, 50 grams of the flour 
are made into a thin paste with water, a few drops of the log- 
wood solution (freshly prepared) added, and the mixture 
allowed to stand several hours. Alum produces a lavender- 
blue lake. 

Chloroform Mclliod. 200 grams of flour are shaken in a 
M-paratory funnel with a sufficient amount of chloroform, 
allowed to stand overnight, and the materials which subside 
carefully removed through the stopcock. This material may 
be further purified by shaking a second time with a little chlo- 
roform and then transferred to a watch-glass and the chloro- 



IO2 FOOD ANALYSIS 

form evaporated. The residue is treated with water, the solu- 
tion separated from the insoluble portion and allowed to 
evaporate, when the crystals of alum will be observed. The 
crystals may be dissolved in water and tested for sulfates, 
aluminum, potassium, and ammonium. The residue insoluble 
in water should be examined under the microscope for mineral 
matters. The steps in the treatment of the residue insoluble 
in chloroform will be assisted by the use of a centrifuge. 

Copper sulfatc can be detected by the ferrocyanid method as 
described under BREAD. 

Ergot in Rye Flour. A preliminary test may be made to 
determine if the flour has been damaged by fungi. Vogel 
advises that the sample be stained with anilin violet and exam- 
ined with the microscope. Any starch granules that have 
been injured by fungus will be deeply stained. 

M. Gruber's test : A little of the flour is moistened with 
water on a microscope-slide, a cover-glass placed on, and the 
mass heated to the boiling-point on a hot plate or water-bath. 
After cooling it is examined with a power of 1 20 diameters. 
Ergot will be recognized by its high refracting power, furrows, 
and color deep violet on the edge, greenish-yellow within. 
A second examination with a power of about 300 diameters 
will enable any doubtful particles to be recognized. 

Chemical Tests. 20 grams of the sample are digested with 
boiling alcohol as long as any color is extracted. The solu- 
tion is treated with I c.c. of sulfuric acid (i : 3). In the 
presence of ergot the solution will be red, and if it be diluted 
with a large volume of water, the color may be extracted 
from separate portions by means of chloroform, ether, petro- 
leum spirit, or amyl alcohol. 

10 grams of the sample are macerated for about 30 minutes 
with a mixture of 20 c.c of ether and 10 drops of dilute 
sulfuric acid (i : 5); the liquid filtered, washed with ether 
until the filtrate amounts to I 5 c.c. This is shaken with 5 



STARCH lOj 

drops of a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate. The 
chlorophyl remains in the other ; the sodium bicarbonate so- 
lution remains clear if the flour be from sound grain, but 
takes on a deep violet color if ergot be present. 

A. Miller examined a sample of flour containing not more 
than o. i per cent, of ergot, which imparted to the alcoholic 
extract a clear rose coloration as pronounced as if the propor- 
tion had been I per cent. The flour contained bluish-green 
particles of husk of unknown origin, which assumed a red- 
dish tint on treatment with acidulated alcohol, and imparted 
the same color to the alcoholic extract. The difference in 
shade between the color produced by this flour and one con- 
taining ergot was only distinguishable in concentrated solu- 
tions, when the former was rose-red, the latter brick-red. 

Mixed Flours. The following data are taken, with but few 
changes, from the contributions of Migelow and Sweetser and 
Kraemcr : 

Gluten obtained from a mixture of wheat and rye flours is 
dark and viscous, without homogeneity ; from a mixture of 
wheat and barley flours, dark, non-viscous, and dirty reddish- 
brown ; from a mixture of wheat and oats, dark yellow ; from 
a mixture of wheat and maize, yellowish and. non-elastic ; 
from a mixture of wheat and leguminous flour it varies from 
a grayish-red, in the case of vetch or beans, to green, in the 
case of peas, and has the characteristic odor and taste of 
leguminous products. The ash of leguminous flour is deli- 
quescent, high in chlorids, and turns turmeric paper brown ; 
cereal ash is the reverse. The aqueous extract of the legu- 
minous flour is acid ; that of cereal flour is faintly alkaline. 
If the filtrate from the gluten determination of flour contain- 
ing leguminous flour be made alkaline with ammonium hy- 
droxid, allowed to stand overnight, and the clear liquid de- 
canted, dilute sulftiric acid will precipitate K inimin. 



IO4 FOOD ANALYSIS 

For the detection of potato ft out- a portion of the sample is 
rubbed in a mortar until a stiff paste is obtained, thinned with 
more water, filtered, ai>d the clear filtrate tested with a drop of 
a dilute solution of iodin. Potato flour produces a deep blue, 
while with pure wheat flour the result is yellow or light 
orange. If a mixture of cereal and potato flours be dried, 
spread in a thin layer on a glazed black surface, and examined 
with a lens, the potato is indicated by bright and glassy par- 
ticles in the otherwise dull white substance. 

Vogel extracts the flour with 70 per cent, of alcohol, to 
which 5 per cent, of hydrochloric acid has been added. 
The extract is colorless if the flour consist only of wheat or 
rye, pale yellow if adulterated with barley or oats, orange 
yellow with pea flour, purple red if made from mildewed 
wheat, and blood red if made from ergotized wheat. 

Rice in Buckivheat Flour. When pure buckwheat is mixed 
with water into a thin paste, the addition of calcium hydroxid 
produces a dark green, which becomes red when acidified with 
hydrochloric acid. Rice flour gives a yellow color with potas- 
sium hydroxid and white with hydrochloric acid. A mixture 
of buckwheat and rice flours made into paste is changed to a 
light green color by potassium hydroxid and becomes flesh- 
colored when acidified with hydrochloric acid. 

Wheat in Rye Flour. A. Kleeburg has advised the follow- 
ing test : A pinch of the sample is mixed on a small glass 
plate (a microscope-slide will serve) with water at about 45 
in sufficient quantity that the particles of flour still float. The 
mixture is spread over a considerable part of the glass and a 
similar glass laid upon it so that about one-fourth of each 
glass protrudes at the ends. The two glasses are pressed 
together, the exuded liquid wiped off, and the glasses rubbed 
on each other several times. If wheat flour be present, white 
spots will be observed, which will form threads on being 
rolled ; these are short and thin if the proportion of wheat be 



STARCH IO5 

l, and thicker and longer with larger amounts. An ad- 
mixture of 5 per cent, of wheat flour with rye is said to be 
thus recognizable. 

Maize in Wheat Flour. H. Kraemer has devised the follow- 
ing test, which, he states, will detect 5 per cent, of maize in 
wheat flour : I gram of the sample is mixed with 1 5 c.c. of 
good glycerol and heated to boiling for a few minutes. An 
odor recalling that of popcorn indicates maize. 

It is alleged that cheap flours have been adulterated with 
sawdust. G. A. Le Roy applied the following test for detect- 
ing this addition : A small amount of the sample is gently 
warmed with the acid solution of phloroglucol (page 35). 
Ordinary wood-fiber quickly acquires a bright red tint, while 
bran particles are but slightly affected. 

BREAD 

.Bread is made by baking the mass obtained by kneading 
flour with water. This gives the so-called unleavened bread, 
but it is usual to add a little common salt to the water and 
make the dough light by inflating it with carbon dioxid. This 
may be done by the use of baking powder, or by mixing the 
flour with water containing carbonic acid under pressure (aer- 
ated bread), but commonly yeast is added to the dough and 
the mixture, called the " sponge," allowed to stand for some 
hours and then baked. The slight fermentation which occurs 
liberates carbon dioxid. 

The chemical composition of bread is approximately that of 
the flour from which it is made. The moisture usually ranges 
from 30 to 40 per cent., and will depend, among other condi- 
tions, upon the quantity and quality of the gluten, and the 
size and shape of the loaf. On the size and shape will also 
depend the relative proportion of crust to crumb, the latter 
containing about twice as much moisture as the former. The 
addition of potato flour or rice flour will enable a bread to be 



io6 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



prepared containing a much" larger proportion of water than 
usual. The addition of about I per cent, of mashed potatoes 
to the dough is said to render the bread white without any 
notable increase in the amount of moisture retained. 

The proportion of fat in bread, as determined by the ether 
extract, is apt to be less than that of the original flour, owing 
to decomposition of the fat in the crust, by heat, and also to 
the inclosure of the fat particles in such a way as to render 
them difficult of extraction. On the other hand, the propor- 
tion of fatty matter may be increased by the use of milk or by 
the material used to grease the pans. 

When bread is raised by yeast, some solid matter is lost by the 
fermentation. According to Lawes and Gilbert, this is prob- 
ably less than ^ of I per cent., and appears to be due to the 
decomposition of the sugar. The unchanged starch is not 
appreciably altered during the short time that the yeast acts. 
The ash of bread will be higher than that of the flour if salt 
or baking powder has been added. 



Vienna, average of 10 sam- 
ples, 

Home-made, average of 2 
samples, 

Graham, average of 9 sam- 
ples, 

Rye, average of 7 samples, 

Quaker, average of 3 sam- 
ples, 

Miscellaneous, average of 
9 samples, 



ORIG- 
INAL 
SUB- 
STANCE 


IN THE DRY SUBSTANCE. 


Moist- 
ure. 


Pro- 

teids, 
NX 
5-70. 


Ether 
Ex- 
tract. 


Crude 
Fiber. 


Ash. 


Salt. 


Carbo- 
hy- 
drates. 
exclud- 
ing 
Fiber. 


38-7I 


I3-23 


i-73 


0.97 


1-95 


0-93 


8 3 -I 


33-02 


10.8 


2.91 


0.36 


i-55 


0.84 


84.75 


34-8 
33-42 


12.51 
11.86 


3-3 

1.02 


1-74 
095 


2.29 
2-79 


1.07 
i-5 


82.06 
84.36 


36.16 


11.17 


1-75 


0.41 


1.68 


0.92 


8541 


344i 


10.59 


2.21 


0.46 


'53 


0.76 


85.66 



HRKAD 

The table on page 106 represents the average composition 
of various breads of commerce according to analyses made in 
the laboratory of the United States Department of Agricul- 
ture. The loaves weighed approximately one pound each. 
Trade names are given in most cases. 

ADULTERATIONS. These may consist in the use of damaged 
flour, of flours other than that purporting to be present, 
presence of excess of water, or addition of alum or copper 
sulfatc to improve appearance. 

ALUM. The bread is moistened with water and some of 
the alkaline logwood solution (see p. 101). If alum be 
present, the bread will become lavender-blue in an hour or 
two. Pure bread assumes a light red-brown tint. The blue 
color, however, is not proof of the presence of alum unless 
it is permanent at the temperature of boiling water. 

Blyth's test for alum is as follows : I 50 grams of the material 
are macerated for two days in 2 liters of water. The solution 
is strained through muslin and evaporated at a gentle heat to 
small volume ; a strip of gelatin immersed in this liquid, and 
then in the alkaline logwood solution, will acquire the laven- 
der color if alum is present to the extent of 0.03 per cent. 

These tests are not applicable to sour bread. J. Vander- 
plankcn recommends the following modification, to meet the 
difficulty : I 5 grams of the sample are triturated to a paste 
\\ith w.iter and some pure sodium chlorid and 10 drops of 
a freshly-prepared solution of logwood in alcohol, and then 
5 grams of pure potassium carbonate are added. The mass is 
well mixed, washed with IOO c.c. of water into a beaker, and 
is allowed to settle. In a few minutes the liquid becomes 
reddish-violet if alum is absent, grayish-blue to deep blue 
when it is present. 

The quantitative estimation of the alum is made as follows : 
The ash from 100 grams or more of the bread is boiled with 
hydrochloric acid and the solution filtered. The filtrat 



IO8 FOOD ANALYSIS 

boiled and added to a concentrated solution of sodium hy- 
droxid, the mixture being again boiled and filtered while hot. 
A little disodium acid phosphate is added to the filtrate, which 
is then slightly acidulated with hydrochloric acid and finally 
made feebly alkaline by addition of ammonium hydroxid. The 
precipitate of aluminum phosphate is filtered, washed, ignited, 
and weighed. Flour contains a small proportion of aluminum, 
which, in the ash, is probably in the form of silicate. The 
amount of silica is approximately equal to that of alum equiva- 
lent to the aluminum normally present. It is the practice, 
therefore, to determine the silica and subtract it. from the 
amount of alum calculated from the aluminum phosphate 
found. The remainder, multiplied by 4.48 or 3.73, will give 
the potassium alum or ammonium alum respectively. 

Copper sulfate may be detected by the brown produced 
when a thin slice of bread is immersed in a dilute solution of 
potassium ferrocyanid. 

Foreign flours may be sought for by the microscope, but 
the starch granules are often so altered by heat as to render 
their identification impossible. 

The following adulterants are said to be employed abroad, 
but their use* does not appear to have been attempted in this 
country : 

Soap is said to be used to render the bread light and soft. 
It is said to be added in solution containing emulsified oil. 

Terra alba and gypsum have been found ; they are readily 
detected in the ash. 

Stannous chlorid is a common constituent of ginger cake, to 
which it is added, with potassium carbonate, in order to give 
the product the color ordinarily produced by honey or mo- 
lasses. It is said to render a product made of poor flour and 
molasses of the same color as that produced by a good flour 
and honey. Tin may be detected as described on page 69. 



LEAVENING MATERIALS I , 

LEAVENING MATERIALS 

The yeast cakes sold for leavening purposes are usually 
mixtures of common yeast with potato starch. The study 
of yeast is practically limited to those connected with the 
fermentation industries. Cream of tartar and baking soda are 
commonly employed as leavening agents. 

Baking Soda, Sodium Acid Carbonate, is not subject to 
serious adulteration. 

Cream of Tartar, Acid Potassium Tartrate, is frequently 
adulterated with starch, alum, acid calcium phosphate, calcium 
sulfate, and potassium acid sulfatc. Many samples will.be 
found to contain no tartrate, but merely a mixture of starch, 
calcium phosphate, and alum. 

A. H. Allen has devised the following method for the ex- 
amination of commercial cream of tartar : 

1.881 grams of the dried material are dissolved in hot water 
and titrated with I0 sodium hydroxid and phcnolphtiialein. 
If tartaric acid and acid sulfates are not present, each c.c. 
will represent I per cent, of acid potassium tartrate. 

1. 88 1 grams of dried material are ignited for 10 minutes, 
the residue boiled with water, filtered, and washed. The 
filtrate is titrated with ^ hydrochloric acid and methyl-orange. 
With pure tartrate the amount of acid consumed will be the 
same as that of the alkali in the first experiment. Each 
cubic centimeter of deficiency is equivalent to 0.36 per cent, 
calcium sulfate, or 0.72 per cent, acid potassium sulfate. If 
the amount of acid be more than equivalent to that of the 
alkali used in the former experiment, it suggests the presence 
of neutral tartrate, each cubic centimeter of excess represent- 
ing 0.6 per cent, thereof. The amount of sulfate can be" de- 
termined by precipitating with barium chlorid in the usual 
way. 

The residue is" ignited, dissolved in 20 c.c. of I0 acid, filtered 



I 10 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



from any insoluble residue, and the filtrate titrated with ** 

* IO 

alkali. Each c.c. corresponds to 0.5 per cent, of calcium 
tartrate, or 0.36 per cent, of anhydrous calcium sulfate. 

The cream of tartar substitutes commonly sold contain 
starch, alum, and calcium phosphate. The presence of starch 




FIG. 37. 

and its source can easily be determined by the iodin test and 
microscopic examination. Quantitative examination of such 
samples will be conducted as described under " Baking Pow- 
ders." 

Baking Powders. These contain acid sodium carbonate, 
some acid salt, e. g. t acid potassium tartrate, acid calcium 



LEAVENING MATERIALS I | I 

phosphate, or alum, with inert material, starch or flour, to 
prevent caking. Many powders contain both alum and acid 
calcium phosphate. The following methods for examining 
baking powders were published by C. A. Crampton : l2 

The value of baking powder depends on the gas liberated 
when it is mixed with water. The determination may be made 
by the apparatus arranged by A. E. Knorr. 1 3 (Fig. 37.) The 
fl isk A holds the weighed portion of sample. The condenser 
D, attached by a ground joint, serves to condense the steam 
formed when the liquid in A is boiled. H contains either 
recently-boiled water or dilute sulfuric acid, according to 
whether the available carbon dioxid or total carbonates are to 
be determined. 

It has a soda-lime tube attached by a ground-joint to pre- 
vent admission of carbon dioxid from the current of air which 
is drawn through the apparatus during the operation. The 
junction of this portion with the flask should be by ground 
or fused joint. The evolved gas is dried in E by sulfuric 
acid and absorbed in F. 

Available carbon dioxid, which gives the leavening power, 
is determined as follows : The flask A is dried thoroughly, 
a weighing tube is charged with about 2 grams of the powder, 
accurately weighed, the contents emptied into the flask, and 
the tube weighed again. The exact amount of powder taken 
is thus known. Recently-boiled water is put into B, the 
apparatus connected tightly, and the water allowed to flow in 
slowly from H, the aspirator attached to G being put in 
operation. When the effervescence in A has ceased, the 
liquid in it is boiled for a few seconds, the lamp removed, 
and aspiration through G continued for 1 5 minutes. The 
absorption apparatus F is weighed, and the increase represents 
carbon dioxid. Total carbonates are determined by substi- 
tuting 10 c.c. dilute sulfuric acid for the water in B. 

Starch. 5 grams are mixed in a flask with 200 c.c. of 



I I 2 FOOD ANALYSIS 

4 per cent, hydrochloric acid. A condensing tube about I 
meter long is attached by means of a cork (an inverted con- 
denser may be used) and the liquid boiled for 4 hours. The 
contents are cooled, rendered slightly alkaline by sodium hy- 
droxid, and the dextrose determined as given under " Sugars," 
and multiplied by 0.9. 

For powders not containing appreciable amounts of alum, 
direct washing with water, and drying the residue, will often 
give determinations of sufficient accuracy. Since the residual 
liquid in properly-made baking powders is alkaline, due to 
slight excess of baking powder, the diastase method for starch 
may be applicable. The liquid should be filtered and the 
insoluble residue well washed. The aluminum hydroxidmay 
interfere with this method. If flour be used as filler, which 
may be ascertained by inspection, the starch found may be 
roughly calculated to flour by the tables on page 99. 

Aluminum and Phosphates. K. P. McElroy 14 devised the 
following method : 5 grams are charred in a platinum basin, 
mixed with strong nitric acid, and filtered into a 500 c.c. flask. 
The residue is washed slightly, the filter and residue returned 
to the basin, burned to whiteness, mixed with sodium carbon- 
ate, fused, and cooled. Nitric acid is added, the liquid evapo- 
rated to dryness, again acidified with nitric acid, and the whole 
mass washed into the 500 c.c. flask. The liquid is made up to 
the mark and filtered through a dry filter, 100 c.c. of the 
filtrate are nearly neutralized with ammonium hydroxid, am- 
monium nitrate and ammonium molybdate solution added, 
the mass digested at a low heat for a few hours, and filtered. 
The filtrate contains the aluminum, which may be precipitated 
as hydroxid by adding ammonium hydroxid. The precipitate is 
dissolved in ammonium hydroxid and the phosphate deter- 
mined in the usual way. 

Calcium. 5 grams are mixed in a 500 c.c. flask with 50 
c.c. of water and 30 c.c. of strong hydrochloric acid, the 



SUGARS I J 3 

mixtuiv iM.iclc up to the mark, shaken well, and allowed to 
sittle. 5oc.c. are collected through a dry filter, nearly neu- 
tralized by ammonium hydroxid, acetic acid added in small 
amount, then ammonium acetate, and the liquid boiled. If 
any precipitate forms it should be removed. The clear liquid 
is precipitated by ammonium oxalate. 

Sn/fates. 0.5 gram of the sample are digested with strong 
hydrochloric, acid until everything has dissolved, the liquid is 
diluted considerably, brought to boiling, and precipitated with 
barium chlorid, taking care not to use a large excess. The 
precipitate is weighed in the usual manner. 

Ammonium Compounds. These may be determined by the 
Kjeldahl-Gunning method applied to the water filtered from 
a known weight of the powder. 

The best commercial baking powders yield about 12 per 
cent, by weight of gas. 10 grams would, therefore, yield 1.2 
grams, occupying at ordinary temperature about 600 c.c., 
which will be much increased in baking. Many powders 
yield much less gas. 

SUGARS 
Detection. 

Most of the tests for sugars depend on their reducing effect, 
except the phenylhydrazin, fermentation, and optic tests. Su- 
crose possesses less reducing action than other common sugars, 
does not give any precipitate with phenylhydrazin, and is not 
directly fermentable. By the action of dilute acids or inver- 
tase (yeast-enzym) it is converted into equal parts of dextrose 
and levulose, a change commonly termed " inversion," the mix- 
ture being known as " invert-sugar." This responds to all 
the above tests. 

Cobalt Nitrate Test. Wiley has experimented with this 
method and has obtained satisfactory results. He describes 
it as follows : 



I 14 FOOD ANALYSIS 

5 c.c. of a 5 per cent, solution of cobaltous nitrate are well 
mixed with 15 c.c. of sugar solution, and 2 c.c. of a 50 per 
cent, solution of sodium hydroxid added. Sucrose gives an 
amethyst-violet solution, which is made somewhat more blue 
by boiling, but regains its color on cooling. Dextrose gives 
a turquoise-blue, which in the course of two hours passes into 
a pale green. A slight flocculent precipitate is noticed in the 
tube containing dextrose. Maltose and lactose act very much 
as dextrose, but in the end do not give so fine a green color. 
If the solution containing dextrose, lactose, or maltose be 
boiled, the original color is destroyed and a yellow-green 
color takes its place. In mixtures of dextrose and sucrose 
the sucrose coloration predominates one part of sucrose in 
nine parts of dextrose can be distinguished. Impurities such 
as gum arabic or dextrin should be removed by alcohol or 
lead subacetate before the application of the test. Dextrin 
may also be thrown out by treatment of the solution with 
barium hydroxid and ammoniacal lead acetate. The reaction 
may be applied to the detection of cane-sugar in wines after 
they are thoroughly decolorized by means of lead acetate and 
bone-black. Sucrose may be detected in fresh or condensed 
milk after the disturbing matters have been thrown out by 
lead acetate. Sucrose may be detected in honey. 

Plienylhydrazin Test. Phenylhydrazin hydrochlorid is usu- 
ally employed. The commercial article is often contaminated 
with anilin hydrochlorid. It may be purified by solution in hot 
water, precipitation by strong hydrochloric acid, and recrys- 
tallization from hot water. 

For the test, o. I gram of the sample, about 0.2 gram phenyl- 
hydrazin hydrochlorid, and 0.3 gram of sodium acetate are 
dissolved in 5 c.c. of water and heated on the water-bath for 
some time. Sucrose forms no precipitate, but with many 
sugars crystalline compounds called osazones separate. 

ncxtrosazonc and levulosazonc have similar properties, crys- 



SUGARS I I 5 

talli/.ing in needles melting at 2O4-2O5. They reduce Fehl- 
ing's solution, and when dissolved in acetic acid are slightly 
levorotatory. 

Maltosazone crystallizes in tables, which melt, with decom- 
position, at 206. It is levorotatory. 

Lactosazone crystallizes in prisms of melting-point 200. 

Sucrose forms no osazone. After inversion it yields a mix- 
ture of dextrosazone and levulosazone. 

Lactose, after boiling with sulfuric acid, yields a mixture of 
dextrosazone and galactosazbne. The latter is distinguished 
by its melting-point, 193, from dextrosazone. 

Starch and dextrin, after hydrolysis, yield dextrosazone and 
maltosazone. 

The application of these reactions to the quantitative deter- 
mination of sugars has met with partial success. 

Determination. 

The preparation of sucrose for use as a standard in polar - 
imetry and reduction-tests has been the subject of formal action 
at the third session of the International Commission for Uni- 
form Methods of Sugar Analysis, Paris, July 24, 1900. 15 

Purest commercial sugar is selected and dissolved by satu- 
ration in hot water, and ethyl alcohol added sufficient to pre- 
cipitate the sugar. The precipitate is whirled in a centrifuge 
and washed with alcohol. The material obtained is put through 
the whole process a second time, and the washed material is 
dried on pure bibulous paper and kept in stoppered glass ves- 
sels. It still contains moisture, which must be determined 
anil allowed for in making standard solutions. 

The temperature of the water is not given. Blotting-paper 
is mentioned in the text, but folds of pure filter-paper seem 
best, as commercial blotting-paper is of uncertain composition. 

For the standardization of solutions for the determination of 
sucrose and invert-sugar, 2.5 grams of pure sucrose should 



Il6 FOOD ANALYSIS 

be dissolved in a mixture of 75 c.c. of water and 5 c.c. of 
hydrochloric acid (sp. gr. 1.188 at 15), inverted according 
to the method on page 124, the acid neutralized with sodium 
carbonate, and the solution diluted to one liter. 2.5 grams of 
sucrose yield 2.6316 grams of invert-sugar. The number of 
cubic centimeters of sugar solution used, multiplied by 
0.00263, will give the weight of invert-sugar required to re- 
duce completely 10 c.c. of the test solution under the con- 
ditions of the experiment. 

CHEMICAL METHODS. 

The following standard reagents are generally employed : 
SOXHLET'S MODIFIED COPPER SOLUTION (A. o. A. c.). 

Copper sulfate solution. 34.639 grams of pure crystallized 
copper sulfate are dissolved in sufficient water to make 500 
c.c. 

Alkaline tartrate solution. 173 grams of pure potassium 
sodium tartrate and 50 grams of sodium hydroxid are dis- 
solved in sufficient water to make 100 c.c. A convenient 
method is to use 100 c.c. of a solution containing 500 grams 
of sodium hydroxid in one liter. Potassium acid tartrate, now 
obtainable of very good quality, may be used instead of potas- 
sium sodium tartrate, in which case the proportion required 
will be 133 grams of potassium acid tartrate and 80 grams of 
sodium hydroxid made up to 500 c.c. The copper and alka 1 
line tartrate solutions must be kept separate in well-stoppered 
bottles and mixed only when needed. 

APPROXIMATE VOLUMETRIC METHOD FOR RAPID WORK. 

5 c.c. of each of the solutions are placed in a large test-tube, 
10 c.c. of distilled water added, the liquid heated to boiling, 
and small portions of the solution to be tested gradually added 
until the copper has been completely precipitated, boiling to 
complete the reaction after each addition. When the end 
reaction is nearly reached and the amount of sugar solution 
can no longer be judged by the color of the solution, a small 



SUGARS 



117 



portion of the liquid is removed by means of a filtering-tube, 
placed in a porcelain crucible or on a testing plate, acidified 
with dilute acetic acid, and tested for copper by solution of 
potassium ferrocyanid. The sugar solution should be of such 
strength as will require from 15 to 20 c.c. to complete the 
reduction, and the number of additions of solution should be 
as few as possible. It is best to verify the first experiment 
by a second, based on the approximation 
which the first gives. Boiling for 2 minutes 
should be required for complete precipitation 
when the full amount of sugar solution has 
been added in one portion. The factor for 
calculation varies with the minute details of 
manipulation ; every operator must determine 
the individual factor by using a known amount 
of the form of sugar that is to be determined 
and maintaining conditions as uniform as pos- 
sible. 

Figure 38 shows filter-tubes suitable for 
obtaining a small quantity of the liquid. 
Wiley's tube (A) is a thick-walled glass tube 
about 4 cm. long on one of which a flange 
has been made, over which a piece of fine 
linen is tied. Knorr's tube (B) is much nar- 
rower, and has a perforated platinum disk 
sealed into the lower end. The tube is dipj>ed 
into water containing suspended asbestos, and 
by aspiration a thin felt is formed over the lower surface ot 
the platinum disk. The tube, thus prepared, is dipped into 
the boiling copper solution and by aspiration a drop is drawn 
into the tube. The Wiley filter requires that the liquid be 
poured from the tube when it is to be tested, but with the 
Knorr tube the asbestos is wiped off, the liquid expelled through 
the platinum, and the drop is tested for copper as noted. 



FIG. 38. 



I I 8 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Another method is to remove a drop of the boiling solution 
by means of a rod and place it on a piece of pure filter-paper. 
The precipitate remains in the center of the moistened spot. 
A drop of potassium ferrocyanid solution, acidulated with 
acetic acid, is then placed near it ; as the spot spreads, a brown 
stain will appear where the liquids meet, if copper still be in 
solution. 

POTASSIUM COPPER CYANID METHOD. 

This method, devised by Gerrard, has been investigated by 
A. H. Allen, who has pointed out the conditions necessary to 
insure accuracy, and regards it as superior to other reduction 
methods. When potassium cyanid is added in sufficient 
amount to copper sulfate, a potassium copper cyanid is 
formed. This compound is not decomposed by sodium 
hydroxid or hydrogen sulfid. By operating on a solution 
containing an excess of copper sulfate, the reduction will 
take place with this excess only, and the end of the reaction 
is indicated by the disappearance of the blue tint of the liquid. 
The cuprous oxid remains in solution, but as it reoxidizes very 
slowly, a brief exposure to air does not interfere so much as 
in some other methods. The following description is con- 
densed from A. H. Allen's " Chemistry of Urine " : 

5 c.c. of each of the solutions -described on page 1 16 are 
accurately measured into a porcelain basin, 40 c.c. of water 
added, the liquid heated to boiling and maintained so during 
the entire manipulation. A solution of potassium cyanid (5 
grams in 100 c.c. of water) is added gradually until only a 
tinge of blue remains. An excess of cyanid must be avoided. 
Additional measures of 5 c.c. each of the copper sulfate and 
alkaline tartrate solutions are now added, and when the liquid 
begins to boil the solution of sugar to be tested is dropped in 
rapidly. The end reaction is sharp when pure solutions of 
sugar are used. The amount of reagent used is decolorized 
by 0.05 gram of invert-sugar corresponding to 0.0475 su ~ 
crose. 



SUGARS IIQ 

The potassium cyanid must be of good quality ; the com- 
mercial article contains cyanate, carbonate, and sodium com- 
pounds. The solution of potassium copper cyanid keeps for 
some weeks ; hence if several determinations are to be made, 
a small stock of solution may be prepared by using ten times 
the amounts directed above, adding 300 c.c. of water, decol- 
orizing with potassium cyanid at the boiling-point, and dilut- 
ing the liquid to 500 c.c. when cold. 50 c.c. of this liquid 
are mixed with 5 c.c. each of the reagent solutions and the 
titration proceeded with. 
SOXHLET'S EXACT METHOD. 

An approximate determination of the reducing sugars in 
the sample is made by one of the titration methods and a 
solution is prepared which contains nearly, but not more than, 

1 per cent, of these sugars. 50 c.c. of copper sulfate solution 
and 50 c.c. of alkaline tartrate solution are mixed, added to a 
volume of the solution of the sample estimated to be suffi- 
cient for the complete precipitation of the copper, boiled for 

2 minutes, some of the solution filtered rapidly, and the 
filtrate tested for copper. The process is repeated until two 
proportions of the solution of the sample are determined 
which differ by o. I c.c., one giving complete reduction and 
the other leaving a small amount of copper in solution. The 
mean of these volumes is the amount of solution required for 
the volume of Fehling's solution taken. 

Under these conditions, which must be rigidly observed, the 
volume of solution used will contain 0.475 g ram f dextrose 
or 0.494 gram of invert-sugar. As the weight of the sample 
which is in this amount of solution is known, the percentage 
of either sugar may be calculated by simple proportion. 
AU.IHN'S Mi-.nion FOR DKXTROSE. 

Coffer sulfate solution . 34.639 grams of pure crystalli/ed 
copper sulfate are dissolved in water and made up to 500 c.c. 

Alkaline tartrate solution. 173 grams of pure potassium 



I2O 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



sodium tartrate and 125 grams of potassium hydroxid are 
dissolved in water and made up to 500 c.c. 

The substance to be tested is dissolved in water in such 
proportion that the solution shall not contain more than i per 
cent, of dextrose. 30 c.c. of each of the reagent solutions 
and 60 c.c. of water are mixed and heated to boiling, 25 c.c. 
of the solution to be examined are added, the boiling con- 
tinued for 2 minutes, and the liquid immediately filtered with- 
out dilution, as directed in connection with the reduction or 
electrolytic methods of determination of copper. 

The precipitated cuprous oxid is usually 
converted into free copper and weighed as 
such. Two methods may be employed for re- 
duction : by hydrogen or by electrolysis. 

Reduction by Hydrogen. The cuprous oxid 
is collected on an asbestos filter. This is ar- 
ranged most conveniently in a special filtering 
tube, which is shown in figure 38 a. The 
wider part is about 8 cm. long and 1.5 cm. in 
diameter, the narrower portion about 5 cm. 
long and 0.5 cm. in caliber. A perforated 
platinum disk is sealed in just above the point 
of narrowing. The asbestos is placed on this 
disk, washed free from loose fibers, dried well 
and the tube weighed. The filtering tube is attached to an 
exhaustion apparatus by passing narrower portion through the 
cork, and a small funnel is fitted tightly in the top of the tube. 
The object of this funnel is to prevent the precipitate collect- 
ing on the upper part of the tube. The lower end of the 
funnel should project several centimeters below the bottom of 
the cork through which it passes. 

The filtering apparatus must be arranged prior to the pre- 
cipitation, so that the cuprous oxid may be filtered without 
delay. The precipitate is transferred as rapidly as possible 



FIG. 38 a. 



SUGARS 



121 



to the filter, well washed with hot water, alcohol, ami ether 
successively, dried, and the cuprous oxid reduced by gentle 
heating in a current of dry hydrogen. When the reduction 
is complete, the heat is withdrawn, but the flow of hydrogen 
is continued until the tube is cold. It is then detached and 
weighed. The amount of sugar is determined by reference to 
the following table. Quantities of copper intermediate 
between those given in the table may be converted into the 
equivalent in sugar by allowing for each o.ooi of copper, 
0.0005 of dextrose for figures in the first column, 0.00055 for 
figures in the second column, and 0.0006 in the third column. 

EQUIVALENTS FOR ALLIHN'S METHOD 



COPPER. 


DEXTROSE. 


COPPER. 


DKXTROSB. 


COPPER. 


DKXTROSK. 


O.OIO 


0.0061 


0.170 


0.0869 


0-330 


0.1731 


O.020 


O.OIIO 


0.180 


0.0921 


0.340 


0.1787 


0.030 


0.0160 


0.190 


0.0973 


0.350 


0.1843 


0.040 


0.0209 


0.2OO 


o. 1026 


0.360 


0.1900 


0.050 


0.0259 


0.210 


o. 1079 


0.370 


0-1957 


0.060 


0.0308 


0.22O 


0.1132 


0.380 


0.2014 


0.070 


0.0358 0.230 


0.1185 


0.390 


o. 207 1 


0.080 


0.0408 0.240 


0.1239 


0.400 


0.2129 


0.090 


0.0459 


O.25O 


0.1292 


0.410 


0.2187 


b. loo 


0.0509 


0.200 


0.1346 


0.420 


0.2245 


o. no 


0.0560 


0.27O 


0.1400 


0.430 


o. 2304 


O. 120 


0.0611 


0.28o 


0.1455 


0.440 


o. 2363 


0.130 


0.0662 


0.29O 


0.1510 


0.450 


0.2422 


0.140 


0.0713 


0.300 


0.1565 


0.460 


0.2481 


0.150 


0.0765 


0.310 


0.1620 0.463 


0.2499 


o. 160 


0.0817 


O.32O 


0.1675 0465 


0.2511 



Reduction of Copper by Electrolysis. The filtration is per- 
formed in a Gooch crucible with an asbestos-felt film and the 
beaker in which the precipitation was made is well washed 
with hot water, the washings being passed through the filter, 
but it is not necessary to transfer all the precipitate. When 
the asbestos film is completely washed, it is transferred \\ith 
tlu- adhering oxid to the beaker ; any oxid remaining in the 



122 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



crucible is washed into the beaker by use of 2 c.c. nitric 
acid (sp. gr. 1.42), added with a pipet. The crucible is rinsed 
with a spray of water, the rinsings being collected in the 
beaker. The liquid is heated until all the copper is in solu- 
tion, filtered, the filter washed until the filtrate amounts to at 
least 100 c.c., and electrolyzed. 






FIG. 39. 

Electrolytic apparatus has been constructed in a great variety 
of forms. When the operation is carried out frequently, it is 
best to have an electrolytic table. A platinum basin holding 
not less than 100 c.c. is used. A cylindrical form with flat 
bottom is convenient. It should rest on a bright copper plate, 
which is connected with the negative pole of the electrical 



SUGARS 123 

supply. The positive pole should be also platinum, either a 
spiral wire, cylinder, or flat foil. Many operators use a funnel- 
shaped perforated terminal for the negative pole ; as shown 
in figure 39. In this case a beaker or casserole will be a 
suitable container, the positive terminal being placed within 
the negative. 

Four cells of a gravity battery will suffice for a single de- 
composition, and will operate two, but more slowly. It is 
usual to arrange the apparatus so that the operation may be 
continued during the night. When the electricity is taken 
from the general supply of the laboratory, it is usually neces- 
sary to interpose resistance and to have some means of meas- 
uring the current-flow. This is sometimes done with a gas 
evolution cell and incandescent lamp, but an ammeter and 
adjustable rheostat is better. (See page 66.) 

OPTIC METHODS. 

The general principles of polarimetry have been explained 
elsewhere. For the decolorization and clarification of solu- 
tions, the following standard. reagents are employed: 

Lead snbacetatc. Solution of lead acetate is boiled with 
excess of lead monoxid for 30 minutes, filtered, and brought 
to" a specific gravity of 1.250. Solid lead subacetate maybe 
used in preparing the solution. 

Alumina-cream. A cold saturated solution of alum is 
divided into two unequal portions ; a slight excess of ammo- 
nium hydroxid is added to the larger portion and the remain- 
der is added until a faintly acid reaction is obtained. 

For sugars and molasses the normal weight for the 
instrument is weighed out, washed into a 100 c.c. flask, 
and water added to make about 80 c.c. When the material 
has dissolved as far as possible, lead subacetate is added 
until all precipitable matter has separated. (With mo- 
lasses sufficient acetic acid should be added to convert the 
load subacetate into acetate.) The flask is filled to the mark, 



124 FOOD ANALYSIS 

using, if necessary, a little ether spray to break bubbles, 
the solution filtered with a dry filter, the first 1 5 c.c. re- 
jected, and the reading taken on the remainder of the filtrate. 
If the liquid is very dark, some dry finely-powdered pure 
bone-black should be used instead of paper and the first 40 
c.c. of filtrate rejected. All observations should be made as 
nearly as possible at the temperature for which the instrument 
is adjusted. A change of 5 in the interval between filling 
the flask and making the reading will cause, by change ot 
volume, an error of about o. I per cent, in samples containing 
90 per cent, of sucrose and an error of about 0.5 per cent, in 
samples containing 50 per cent, of sucrose. 

With juices or other dilute materials, weighing may be 
omitted, and 100 c.c. of the sample placed in a flask marked 
100 c.c. and 1 10 c.c., the clarifying reagents added, the flask 
filled to the 1 10 c.c. mark, filtered as above, and a reading 
taken. The following formula may be employed for calcu- 
lating results : 

p_, r _ i.i X reading on sugar scale X normal weight for instrument 

1 CrCcnilitiC OI SUClOSC 77; ; f ' 1 ~~ 

loo X specific gravity of sample 
A. O. A. C. INVERSION METHOD. 

A clear solution is made according to one of the methods 
given above. 50 c.c. of the filtrate are placed in a flask 
marked at 50 and 55 c.c., 5 c.c. of pure fuming hydrochloric 
acid added, and the liquids well mixed. The flask is heated 
in water until the thermometer, with the bulb as near the 
center of the solution as possible, marks 68. About 15 
minutes should be required for this heating. The flask is then 
removed, cooled quickly to room temperature, and polarized, 
noting the temperature. If the sample originally contained 
invert-sugar, the second polarization should be made at ap- 
proximately the same temperature as the first. The calcula- 
tion of the amount of sucrose is made by adding the two 
readings if they are on opposite sides of the zero, or subtract- 



SUGARS 125 

ing them if they are on the same side, and dividing the result 
in either case by 143 less half the observation temperature in 
centigrade degrees. The rule, therefore, may be expressed by 
the following formula : 

8 23 

2 

a being the first and b the second reading, which are added 
when of opposite signs and subtracted when of like signs ; 
that is, the algebraic difference is taken, in either case. 

With dark-colored materials it will often be advantageous 
to add an excess of alumina cream. Alumina cream alone 
will often suffice for clarification. 

When lead subacetate is used with liquids containing levu- 
lose.it is necessary to render the filtrate acid in order to break 
up a compound which the levulose forms with the lead. 

GERMAN OFFICIAL METHOD. 

26.048 grams of the sample are dissolved in a sugar flask and 
the solution made up to IOQC.C. ; 50 c.c. of this solution are 
transferred by means of a pipet to a flask graduated at 50 and 
55 c.c. .enough lead subacetate solution added for clarification, 
the volume made up to the 55 c.c. mark, and the liquid thor- 
oughly shaken and filtered. The filtrate is then polarized, the 
reading being corrected for the extra 5 c.c. The liquid ad- 
hering to the pipet is washed into the lOOc.c. flask containing 
the remaining 50 c.c. (13.024 grams), 5 c.c. of concentrated 
hydrochloric acid (38 per cent., specific gravity I.i88at 15) 
added, and the flask placed in a water-bath the temperature of 
which is 70. The contents of the flask should reach a tem- 
perature of 67-7o in two or three minutes, when the tem- 
perature should be maintained within this limit for exactly five 
minutes, keeping the temperature as nearly 69 as possible. 
(See international agreement, page 29, as to standard weight 
of sugar.) 



126 FOOD ANALYSIS 

SUCROSE 

Under the term sucrose all forms of table sugar are in- 
cluded. These are, principally, the sugar-cane, SaccJiantni 
officinarum L. ; beet, Beta vulgaris L. ; sorghum, Sorghum 
saccharatum Persoon ; sugar maple, Acer saccharinum L. 
In the crude state there is a noticeable difference in these 
varieties, but so far as is known, the sucrose is identical in all 
cases. 

Adulterations are rarely encountered. The addition of 
glucose, especially to the lower grades, formerly extensively 
practised, now rarely occurs. The difference in the grades 
depends largely upon the extent to which the molasses and 
mineral matter have been removed. Maple sugar is sold in 
the crude condition and is often adulterated. 

The usual examination of commercial sugar is determina- 
tion of the amount of water, ash, sucrose, and reducing 
sugar. Water and ash are determined as on page 48. In 
the best grades of sugar these together will often not amount 
to more than o. I per cent In the lower grades ash may be 3 
per cent., and water between loand 15 percent. The higher 
proportions of ash are found in beet-sugar. The estimation 
of sucrose is most conveniently made by the polarimeter. 
The direct reading is usually sufficient, but the result may be 
checked by inversion, and reading at ordinary temperature 
and at 86. The best grades will give a direct reading closely 
approximating 100 per cent. In some cases the direct read- 
ing will slightly exceed 100, due to a small proportion of 
raffinose. The lower grades of sugar contain some invert- 
sugar and the proportion of sucrose may be even below 80 
per cent. Maple sugar usually contains about 85 per cent, of 
sucrose. 

COLORING-MATTERS. Granulated and loaf sugars often con- 
tain ultramarine blue, added to improve color. It may be 
separated by dissolving a considerable quantity of the sample 



SUGARS 1 27 

in water, allowing the coloring-matter to subside, and washing 
it with water several times by decantation. Ultramarine blue 
is decomposed by hydrochloric acid, the color discharged, 
and hydrogen sulfid liberated. 

Tin chlorid is sometimes employed in order to give sugar 
a bright, lasting, yellow color. The color appears to be the 
result of action on the sucrose. As a rule, the. finished 
product contains but traces of tin, the greater portion being 
removed with the molasses. The so-called Demerara sugar 
is prepared in this way. Demerara sugar is frequently 
imitated by the addition of artificial coloring, usually to beet- 
sugar. To 'separate such added coloring-matter Cassel rec- 
ommends the following method : 

About i oo grams of the sample are shaken with alcohol of 
90 per cent. This will often remove the color in a single 
washing. In some cases it is advisable to use alcohol of 75 
or 80 per cent. The solution is filtered from the sugar, 
evaporated to dry ness, the color again taken up with alcohol, 
and a skein of silk or wool (preferably slightly mordanted 
with aluminum acetate) treated with the solution, warmed for 
some time, and subsequently well washed with water. The 
skein will be dyed of a more or less yellow color in the pres- 
ence of artificial dye. A sample containing only such color- 
ing-matter as is natural to sugar, even by repeated washing 
with alcohol of 90 per cent., does not leave absolutely color- 
less crystals, and does not give a solution capable of perma- 
nently dyeing silk or wool. It is probable that the icool test 
described on page 77 might be successful ly applied to a 
solution in water. Sec also Crampton and Simon's test for 
caramel, patje I 30. 

The occasional occurrence of saccharin as a substitute for 
-ugar in confections, fruit juices, jair.-. and similar articles must 
not be overlooked. The detection of saccharin is given in 
the section on " I'lvsrrvatives." I lu- possibility of commercial 



128 FOOD ANALYSIS 

glucose and invert-sugar containing arsenic and lead derived 
from the sulfuric acid must also be borne in mind. 

MOLASSES AND SIRUP 

Molasses is the uncrystallizable sirup produced in the 
manufacture of sugar. It properly differs from treacle in that 
it comes from sugar in the process of making, while treacle is 
obtained in the process of refining, but the two terms are usu- 
ally employed synonymously. Treacle, often called refiner's 
molasses, may contain 35 per cent, or more of sucrose, which 
is prevented from crystallizing by the associated substances. 
Ordinary table-molasses is made from cane, sorghum, or 
maple. Molasses from raw cane-sugar contains considerable 
invert-sugar, from which beet-root molasses is comparatively 
free. The latter, however, contains raffinose and a great 
variety of other bodies ; the proportion of salts being some- 
times 1 5 per cent. These impurities render it unfit for table 
use. Beet-sugar partially or wholly refined is free from these 
ingredients and may be used in the preparation of table sirups. 

Maple sirup is molasses from the maple. Much so-called 
maple sirup or " mapleine " is made by addition of extract of 
hickory-bark to sucrose or glucose sirup. This use of ex- 
tract of hickory-bark has been patented in the United States. 

Molasses and maple sirup are often adulterated by the addi- 
tion of glucose sirup. The product is usually sold as molasses, 
but is sometimes designated " mixed goods " or " table sirup." 
Glucose sirup produces a good body and light color, and 
many samples consist almost entirely of this material, flavored 
by the addition of a small proportion of the lowest grades of 
refuse molasses. 

The addition of glucose to molasses is readily detected by 
means of the polariscope. The normal or one-half normal 
quantity for the instrument is dissolved in water, clarified, and 
made up to 100 c.c., as described on page 123, and the read- 



SUGARS 1 29 

ing taken. A portion of this solution is inverted, as described 
on page 124, and two readings taken, one at or near the 
same temperature as the direct reading, and a second at 86 
(see page 125). Pure molasses generally gives on direct 
reading at a temperature of 20 a deviation corresponding to 
40 or 50 on the cane-sugar scale. After inversion, the 
reading at the same temperature will be 10 or 20, and at 
a temperature of 86 will be zero or near it. Sirups made 
by the solution of sucrose in water will usually give a rather 
higher direct reading, but after inversion the results will be 
the same as with molasses. In the presence of any consid- 
erable quantity of glucose the direct reading is nearly always 
above 60 and may rise to 120 or more. After inversion, the 
sample remains strongly dextrorotatory even at 86. 

Dark molasses is often bleached. Hone-black is sometimes 
used, but ozone, hydrogen dioxid, sulfurous acid, sulfitcs, 
and sulfuric acid have been employed. One method consists 
in the addition of zinc dust and sodium sulfite, the zinc being 
subsequently removed by the addition of oxalic acid. The 
bleached molasses is liable, therefore, to contain either zinc 
or oxalic acid. 

As noted above, some samples of sugar are prepared by 
the use of stannous chlorid ; the latter may pass into the mo- 
lasses in such proportion as to be dangerous. Copper is occa- 
sionally present, derived from the apparatus of the refinery. 
For the detection of metallic impurities in molasses, not less 
than 50 grams should be ashed and examined as described 
on page 69. 

CARAMEL is a dark brown mass, soluble in water and 
weak alcoholic liquids, obtained by heating sucrose to about 
200. It is largely used as a coloring-matter in foods and 
beverages. It is now occasionally adulterated or imitated by 
artificial coal-tar colors. Arata's wool test will serve in many 
cases to detect these. Caramel as a coloring agent is most 

12 



I3O FOOD ANALYSIS 

easily recognized by a method due to Crampton and Simons : 
The liquid is well shaken with a small quantity of fuller's 
earth and filtered. Coloring matters from charred or un- 
charred wood are not removed, but if caramel be present the 
filtrate will be noticeably paler than the original liquid. See 
also under " Alcoholic Beverages." 

GLUCOSE 

Commercial glucose consists principally of dextrose with 
considerable maltose and gallisin and some dextrin. In trade 
the term "glucose" is restricted to the sirup; the solid is 
called "grape-sugar." Inferior qualities of glucose may con- 
tain sulfurous or sulfuric acid, calcium sulfate, arsenic, and 
lead. A large number of cases of poisoning caused by beer 
made from arsenical glucose and invert-sugar occurred in 
England in 1900. 

The following are analyses of commercial glucoses, presum- 
ably all from maize-starch. 16 Nos. i and 2 are by Moritz and 
Morris ; 3 and 4 by L. Stern. In Stern's analyses some fig- 
ure has been determined by difference, probably that given as 
" unfermentable bodies," in which the gallisin and nitrogen- 
ous matters are included. The nature and effects of these 
accessory bodies are uncertain, but the figures show that 
commercial glucoses will differ in reducing power and optic 
activity. 

No. i. No. 2. ' No. 3. No. 4. 

Dextrose, 5 o -5& 47- 7 1 7- 67.4 

Maltose, 14. iq 12.29 5- 1 I1 - 

Dextrin 1.76 2.98 

Gallisin, '5-59 l S-9 

Nitrogenous matters, ...... 1.18 o.8l 

Unfermentable bodies, 14.08 4.3 

Ash, 1.44 1.39 0.2 1.6 

Water, 16.49 20.77 9-9 I 5-7 

101.23 101.85 100.0 loo.o 

The examination of glucose samples may be conducted as 
follows : 



SUGARS I 3 I 

Arsenic may be detected by Reinsch's test ; lead by the 
routine method given on page 71. The amount of free acid 
is determined by titration of a known weight with standard 
alkali, using phenolphthalein as indicator. Sulfurous acid 
may be detected by adding some of the samples to dilute 
hydrochloric acid, with a few fragments of zinc in a test-tube, 
and covering the mouth of the tube with a piece of filter- 
paper containing some lead acetate. A spot of lead sulfid 
indicates reducible sulfur compounds. Calcium sulphate or 
other mineral matter may be determined by the weight and 
composition of the ash. 

LACTOSE 

Commercial lactose is usually obtained from the whey of 
cows' milk. Inferior qualities contain notable amounts of 
nitrogenous matter, mineral substances, bacteria, and spores 
of fungi. Pure lactose is a white crystalline powder, not 
very soluble in water and feebly sweet. When crystalli/.ed by 
evaporation at low temperature, it retains one molecule of 
water, but this is easily removed. The freshly made solution 
in water has a dextrorotatory power much greater than 
normal ; upon standing for 24 hours, or immediately upon 
boiling, it acquires its normal rotatory action. This phe- 
nomenon, known as " birotation," must not be overlooked in 
examining samples of lactose or concentrated milk-products. 
Lactose has high reducing power, especially upon alkaline 
copper solutions. Under the influence of some common 
organisms it is rapidly converted into lactic acid ; by special 
methods it may be converted into ethyl alcohol. 

For qualitative tests for lactose see page 1 14. Quantitative 
determinations are made either with a polarimeter or an 
alkaline copper solution. The details of these methods are 
given in connection with the analyses of milk. The examina- 
tion of commercial samples should be directed to the deter- 
mination of the amount of nitrogen, ash, lead, copper, and 



132 FOOD ANALYSIS 

zinc. The sample should not be acid, nor contain any appre- 
ciable amount of matter insoluble in water. 



MAPLE SIRUP AND MAPLE SUGAR 

These are substantially sucrose with minute amounts of 
special flavors. Sucrose from other sources may, therefore, 
be added in large amounts without being detected by any 
direct method. It is claimed, however, by some analysts that 
the amount of ash of a sample may be a guide, since a good 
sucrose contains but a small amount of mineral matter. Suf- 
ficient data are not yet at hand to decide upon this point. 
Adulteration with glucose solution maybe detected by polari- 
metric examination before and after inversion, as directed in 
connection with examination of sucrose. Pure maple sirup 
is converted into invert-sugar and shows a decided change 
from positive to negative, while glucose is not affected. The 
following results, given by A. W. Ogden, 1 " will illustrate this 
method : 

PKRCENTAGK 

POLARIMETER READING. SUCROSE. 
Direct. After Inversion. 

22.2 56.0 

21.9 60.6 

17.6 57.7 

2O.O 62.4 

28.8 85.9 

28.3 87.6 

-29-3 88.5 

45-6 
37-7 
61.2 



HONEY 

Honey is the nectar of flowers and other saccharine exuda- 
tions of plants collected and stored by the hive bee, Apis 
mcllifica. Similar material is produced by other species of 
bees and by some wasps and ants. 



Maple sirups 
free from 
glucose : 


fx, . . . . 

1 i 

L 4, .... 


.... 59.6 
.... 56.7 

.... 6. .7 




r i, . . . . 


.... 84.1 


Maple sugars : 


{::::: 


.... 88.0 




13 


.... 88.4 




!T 


80 o 


Maple sirups 


2 ; : : : 


.... IOO.O 


containing 
glucose : 


? 


.... 96.4 
.... 97.4 



HONEY 133 

Honey consists principally of dextrose and levulose with 
small proportions of mineral and flavoring matters and often 
formic acid. In some cases small amounts of sucrose and 
mannitose and a considerable proportion of carbohydrates of 
the dextrin class are present. Microscopic examination will 
usually show pollen, portions of insects' wings, and spores of 
fungi. Crystallized dextrose is occasionally present. 

The color of honey varies from light amber-yellow to 
brownish-black, according to the source and time and man- 
ner of storage. White clover honey is nearly colorless. 
Strained honey is that freed from comb. 

The proportion of water ranges within the limits of 12 and 
22 per cent., the ash is rarely over 0.3 per cent. The re- 
ducing bodies calculated as dextrose usually amount to from 
60 to 75 per cent. If sucrose be present in but small amount 
in the nectar of the flowers, it may be entirely inverted in the 
bee or after deposition in the hive, the resulting honey being 
quite free. The maximum proportion which may be present in 
pure honey is as yet unknown. Some authorities have pro- 
posed 5 per cent., others are disposed to allow a much higher 
proportion, but it is probable that the lower limit will rarely 
be exceeded in pure samples. 

Horey contains no true dextrin, but many samples yield, 
with strong alcohol, precipitates of carbohydrate intermediate 
between starch and sugar, the proportion being as high as 40 
per cent, or more in the case of honey of coniferous origin. 

Honey is mostly levorotatory. Using the normal sugar- 
weight and measured on the sucrose scale at a temperature of 
20 it will show a deviation of 2 to 14, but the following 
table shows some dextrorotatory results from samples of 
undoubted purity. They were probably derived, in part, 
from the black cherry, and also from the honey-dew of a 
neighboring pine forest. Other observers have noted dextro- 
rotation in honey of coniferous origin. 



134 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



POLARIZATION. 






REDUCING 








TEMPERA- 
TURE, C. 


SUCROSE. 


CARBO- 
HYDRATE CAL- 


WATER. 


ASH. 






Direct. 


After 
Inversion. 






CULATED AS 
DEXTROSE. 






8.2 


2.8 


29.0 


5-0 


64-52 


17.00 


O.I2 


7.2 


3-3 


29.0 


3-1 


66.45 


18-33 


0. IO 


5-1 


2.4 


30.0 


2. I 


63.42 


18.65 


0.19 


7-3 


2.6 


29-5 


3-6 


58.42 


16.72 


0.20 


0.6 


2.2 


29.0 


2.2 


64. 10 


19.60 


0.25 



ADULTERATIONS. Bees are often fed with cane-sugar, which 
is partially inverted by them, but the product is inferior in 
flavor to true honey. Ogden gives the following results of 
polarimetric examination of honey in the comb obtained in 
this way : 

Direct, l8.5. Temperature, 25.2. 

After inversion, 9.0. Temperature, 24. 

The common adulterants of strained honey are invert-sugar 
and glucose sirup. It is usually impossible to detect with 
certainty the addition of invert-sugar. An ash higher than 
0.3 per cent., containing a notable quantity of calcium sul- 
fate, may point to invert-sugar or to glucose sirup. Samples 
are frequently encountered which give a direct polarimetric 
reading of 14 to 20 on the cane-sugar scale, and, after 
inversion, slightly higher figures ; these in most cases probably 
contain added invert-sugar, but it is not possible at present to 
establish this point. 

The direct addition of sucrose to honey is not usual, but 
has been practised in some cases. Its presence in considerable 
quantity will be indicated by the high right-handed rotation, 
decidedly reduced on inversion. A sample of so-called 
" hoarhound honey" examined in the chemical laboratory of 
the United States Department of Agriculture was found to 
consist mainly of a solution of sucrose with some alcohol. 
The analytic results were as follows : 



HONEY 



35 



POLARIZATION. 


TEMPERA- 
TURE, C. 


SUCROSE. 


REDUCING 
BODIES CAL- 
CULATED AS 
DKXTROSE 


WATKR, 
PER 
CUNT. 


Direct. 


After 
Inversion. 


78.90 


2.40 


24.6 


5 8.l 


7 92 


23.12 



ASH, 

PKR 

CENT. 



0.03 



A common method of adulteration consists in pouring 
glucose sirup over honeycomb from which the honey has 
been drained, and allowing the mixture to stand until it has 
acquired a honey flavor. Such samples give a high positive 
polarimetric reading, but little affected by inversion with acid. 
The following are some results of examination of honey con- 
taining glucose : 



WATER. 


ASH. 


POLARIZATION. 


REDUCING 
BODIKS CALC. 
AS DKXTROSK. 


SUCROSE. 


SOLIDS 

NOT 

DKTKR- 

MIM I'. 


Direct. 





After 
inv. 


* 


Before 
. inv. 


After 
inv. 


By 
Polar. 


Bv 
Reduc. 


'9-79 

22.45 
1541 
1907 


0.36 

O.2I 
0.31 
W 


52.25 

74-50 
74.00 
89-50 

26^8 


30-5 
21.5 
24-5 
21.5 
23.0 

*5-5 






60.18 

5' -99 
40.0 
57-60 
65.23 


61.33 
59.85 

57 oo 

^ 4 "2 5 
6485 


3-99 

16.50 
5-84 

0.00 


1.09 
2-33 

16.15 
6.43 

0.00 


25-39 

0.50 
19-53 






73-So 
67-50 
16.90 
23-50 


24-0 

21.6 
22.6 
25.0 



Dextrin is a constant constituent of commercial glucose 
sirup, and the attempt has been made to detect the latter by 
the formation of a precipitate when the sample is diluted with 
alcohol. It has been shown, however, that many samples of 
honey contain a considerable material precipitable by ethyl 
alcohol, amounting in some instances to 50 per cent. Accord- 
ing to Beckmann, better results may be obtained by the use 
of methyl alcohol. Pure honey, both the ordinary form and 
the dextrorotatory variety, that might be regarded as adul- 
terated with glucose, was found to yield, when largely diluted 



136 FOOD ANALYSIS 

with methyl alcohol, only a slight flocculent precipitate, which 
did not adhere to the walls of the vessel. Glucose sirup 
yielded a precipitate of dextrin amounting to about 31 per 
cent., which produced with a solution of iodin in potassium 
iodid the red characteristic of erythrodextrin. The reaction 
is also obtained by direct addition of the iodin solution to 
honey containing glucose sirup. The quantitative determina- 
tion is made by diluting 8 grams of the sample with 8 c.c. of 
water and diluting the mixture to 100 c.c. with methyl 
alcohol. The precipitate is filtered off, washed with methyl 
alcohol, dissolved in water, and the solution evaporated on the 
water-bath with repeated addition of methyl alcohol until quite 
dry. Adulteration with solid glucose (so-called grape-sugar) 
cannot be detected by this method, since in the preparation 
of this the conversion is carried beyond the point at which 
dextrin is formed. Methyl alcohol produces only a slight 
turbidity. 

Beckmann has also proposed the following test for solid 
glucose and glucose sirup : 5 c.c. of the honey solution (20 
grams in 100 c.c. of water) are mixed with 3 c.c. of a 2 per 
cent, solution of barium hydroxid, 17 c.c. of methyl alcohol 
added, and the'mixture shaken. Pure honey remains clear, 
but in the presence of dextrin, glucose, or glucose sirup a 
considerable precipitate is formed. The test was applied 
quantitatively by increasing the amount taken to 50 grams, 
the methyl alcohol added rapidly to avoid deposition on the 
glass, the liquid well shaken once, the precipitate collected on 
a tared asbestos filter, washed with methyl alcohol and ether, 
and dried at 55-6o. Excessive shaking was avoided in 
order to prevent the action of air on precipitate. It was found 
that the quicker the working, the more accurate the results. 
In some cases it was found necessary to determine the sulfates 
and phosphates and to correct the results accordingly. The 
mean results in test analyses, calculated to I gram of the 



HONEY 137 

material taken, were: Dextrin, 0.916 gram; glucose sirup. 
0.455 gram; solid glucose, 0.158 gram. Admixture of 
dextrorotatory conifer honey to the extent of 90 per cent, 
was not found to increase the amount of precipitate, but, on 
the contrary, to diminish it slightly. 

The following arc results obtained on samples of natural 
honey rich in dextrinous bodies. Sp. is the specific rotatory 
power for yellow light : 

Apple honey, . . . Sp. = 12.2. Precipitate by ethyl alcohol 23.7 per cent. 
Barium precipitate 5 c.c. 10 per cent, solution gave 0.0044 gram. 
" " 5 c.c. 20 per cent. " " 0.0072 " 

Umbellifer honey, . Sp. = 4.6. Precipitate by ethyl alcohol 29.1 per cent. 
Barium precipitate 5 c.c. 10 per cent, solution gave 0.0148 gram. 
" " 5 c.c. 20 per cent. " " 0.023 " 

Conifer honey, . . . Sp. = 16.9. Precipitate by ethyl alcohol 41.9 per cent. 

Barium precipitate 5 c.c. 10 per cent, solution gave 0.0132 gram. 

" " 5 c.c. 20 per cent. " " 0.0248 gram. 

It appears from these data that even under unfavorable cir- 
cumstances it is possible to recognize the addition of from 5 
to 10 per cent, of ordinary dextrin, 10 to 20 per cent, of 
glucose sirup, and 30 to 40 per cent, of solid glucose to 
conifer containing as much as 40 per cent, of natural dex- 
trinous matter. With ordinary samples, such as the apple 
honey just noted, adulteration would be much more easily 
detected. 

Molasses is said to have been added to honey, but its 
use is infrequent. The ash of molasses is high and con- 
tains considerable chlorids. Bcckmann suggests its detection 
by the production of a precipitate on addition of a solution of 
lead subacetate in methyl alcohol, the formation of which is 
attributed to the presence of raffinose. 5 grams of the solu- 
tion are mixed with 22.5 c.c. of methyl alcohol and 5 c.c. of 
a solution of the honey (which should not contain more than 
25 per cent.) are added. If the honey be pure, the solution 
will remain clear, but in the presence of molasses a precipitate 



138 FOOD ANALYSIS 

will be formed. The amount of precipitate varies according 
to the particular sample of molasses present, but Beckmann 
claims that it will usually be possible to detect as low as 10 
per cent. 

Konig and Karsch 18 have proposed the following method 
for detection of glucose : 40 grams of the sample are made up 
to 40 c.c. with water, well mixed, 20 c.c. placed in a 250 c.c. 
flask, and absolute alcohol added, by very small portions at a 
time, with constant shaking, until the flask is filled to the 
mark. The mixture is allowed to stand for several days with 
occasional shaking. The solution is again shaken well and 
quickly filtered. 100 c.c. of the filtrate are evaporated to 
remove alcohol, but not to dryness, the residue made up to 20 
c.c. by addition of lead subacetate and water, and the solution 
examined in the polarimeter. 

The precipitate produced by alcohol is washed several 
times with 90 per cent, alcohol and then dissolved off the 
filter with water, evaporated on the water-bath, dried in the 
water-oven, and weighed. 

The following are some of the results obtained : 

PERCENTAGE OF REDVC- 
POLARIMETRIC READING. ING CARBOH YDR ATKS 





Before Treatment 


After Treatment 


PRECIPITA' 




with Alcohol. 


with Alcohol. 


ALCOH< 


Pure honey, . . 


. . . . 6.4 


8.5 


T..2 




12.4 


J 

134 


o 

i-7 




-I6. 7 


17.0 






II.7 


ii 7 


3-3 




9-2 


13.2 


. . . 




7-7 


9-9 


9-7 




99 


12-5 






7-5 


6.2 


34-0 


Honey containing 


75 per 






cent, glucose. , 


2?.'! 


2.4. 


20.6 



CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 

These terms include many articles, including complex 
mixtures, the composition of which is secret. The main 
ingredient is usually sucrose, but invert-sugar, dextrose, 



CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 139 

starch, mucilaginous substances, gelatin, colors, and flavors 
are largely employed. Among the objectionable ingredients 
are paraffin, clay, calcium sulfate, mineral colors, fusel oil, 
and metal foil. Preservatives are usually unnecessary. The 
use of mineral colors has declined much of late years, owing 
to the cheapness and superior brilliancy of artificial organic 
dyes, but some of the chocolate confections contain consider- 
able amounts of brown ferric hydroxid. 

The plain candies, such as rock candy, molasses candy, and 
candy toys are usually only crystallized or melted sucrose 
with flavors and colors. Actual experiment by manufacturing 
confectioners has furnished the following data for proportion 
of color : 

One part of auramin will color 30,000 parts of melted sucrose 
to the deepest yellow required. One part of eosin or fluores- 
cein will give the average tint to 28,000 parts of "cream 
goods" (such as used in high-class "mixtures") or 21,000 
parts of clear and hard candies, or 12,000 to 24,000 parts of 
some other types. These figures are for " solid " coloring 
that is, the whole mass is dyed ; when merely surface-coloring 
is done, the quantity needed is about I part to 50,000. 

The ash of candies and confections is generally below one 
per cent. The flavors are often artificial. A brand called 
" Rock and Rye Drops" is often flavored with fusel oil. 

The colors employed are numerous and constantly chang- 
ing. At present various eosins (t. g. t rhodamin B, rose 
bengale, erythrosin) are much used for red, fluorescein and 
auramin for yellow, malachite green and sulfonated allies for 
green. Natural chlorophyl is sometimes used. Bismarck 
brown is apt to be employed in chocolate colors, although 
disapproved by the National Confectioners' Association. Its 
list will furnish suggestions as to the color likely to be 
present in any sample. 

Analytic Methods. The examination of candies will be 



I4O FOOD ANALYSIS 

usually limited to identification of the coloring-matters and 
detection of starch, clay, calcium sulfate, paraffin, and poison- 
ous metals. Determination of sucrose, invert-sugar, dextrose, 
and gum are difficult and of no practical interest. 

A weighed portion of the sample is stirred in cold water 
until all soluble matter is taken up, the liquid is filtered in a 
Gooch crucible, the residue washed with cold water, trans- 
ferred to the crucible, dried at a low heat, weighed, burnt off, 
and again weighed. The figures for insoluble residue and 
ash will be obtained. The aqueous solution will usually 
contain the coloring and some of the flavoring material ; the 
former may often be identified by the tests given on pages 80 
to 82. Many flavoring agents may be recognized by odor. 
Starch may be detected by iodin. Any notable amount of 
gelatin or albumin will be indicated by the Kjeldahl method. 
Clay, calcium sulfate, and iron oxid will be found in the ash. 



FATS AND OILS 

The methods for determining melting and solidifying points 
and specific gravity of fats and oils have been fully described 
in the introductory part Some comparative data are given 
in this section, together with methods applied almost exclu- 
sively to this class of food-products. 

Specific gravity determined at temperatures other than 
15.5 may be reduced to this by a correction of 0.00064 for 
each degree. This figure is derived from results obtained by 
A. H. Allen. The specific gravity of fats and oils changes 
by time. The following table, due to Thomson and Ballen- 
tyne, shows this fact ; the figures are for I5-5 : 





FRESH. 


ONE MONTH. 


THREE MONTHS. 


Six MONTHS. 


Olive, 


. 0.9168 


0.9187 


0.9208 


0.9246 


Cottonseed, . . . 


. 0.9225 


0.9237 


0.9261 


0.9320 


Aracbis, 


. 0.9209 


0.9213 


0.9233 


0.9267 


Rape, 


. 0.9168 


0.9183 


0.9188 


0.9207 



FATS AND OILS 14! 

Color-tests. Many color-tests for oils and fats have been 
proposed. The reactions are in many cases dependent on 
accessory materials and may fail when the sample has been pro- 
duced under unusual conditions or subjected to special treat- 
ment. Thus, cottonseed oil by heating loses susceptibility 
to several color -tests, while lard derived from animals fed 
liberally on cottonseed products will give distinctly the cotton- 
seed oil reactions. Special color-tests applicable to particular 
oils or fats will be described in connection with these. The 
following general reactions are much used : 

SULFURIC ACID TEST. A drop or two of strong sulfuric 
acid is placed in the center of about 20 drops of oil, allowed 
to rest a few moments, the color change noted, the mixture 
stirred, and the effect again noted. The charring action which 
often obscures the reaction may be avoided by dissolving a 
drop of the oil in 20 drops of carbon disulfid and agitating 
this with the sulfuric acid. 

NITRIC ACID TEST. O. Bach's method is to agitate 5 c.c. 
of the sample with 5 c.c. of nitric acid, sp. gr. 1.30. The 
color reaction is noted, the mixture immersed in boiling water 
for 5 minutes, and the condition again noted. As the reaction 
on heating may be violent, care must be taken that no injury 
be done. 

Massie's method is to agitate 10 grams with 5 c.c. of nitric 
acid, sp. gr. 1.40, and note the color at the end of one hour. 

J. Lewkowitsch states that an acid of specific gravity 1.375 
gives often the best results. In some cases the mixture 
should stand 24 hours before the final observation is made. 

Mixtures of strong sulfuric acid and strong nitric acid have 
been used, but the results are interesting specially in the case 
of certain fish oils. 

The following data, compiled by A. H. Allen, 19 will illus- 
trate the value of these color-tests: 



142 



FOOD ANALYSIS 





OLIVE. 


COTTON- 
SEED. 


SESAME. 


ARACHIS. 


RAPE. 


SUI.FURIC ACID. 












Before stirring, . 
After stirring, . 


Yellow- 
green 
or brown. 
Brown or 
green. 


Red-br..wn. 

Dark red- 
brown. 




Yellow to 
orange. 

Green or 
brown. 


Yellow 
with 
red rings. 
Brown. 


NITRIC ACID. 












Bach's test : 












After agitation. 
After heating, 
After 1 2 hours' 


Pale- 
green. 
Orange- 
yellow. 


Yellow- 
brown. 
Red-brown. 


White. 

Brown- 
yellow. 


Pale rose 

Brown- 
yellow. 


Pale rose. 

Orange- 
yellow. 


standing, . 
Massie's test, . 


Solid. 
Yellow- 


Buttery. 
Orange-red 


Liquid. 
Yellow- 


Solid. 
Pale red. 


Solid 
Orange. 


Time for solidifica- 


green. 




orange 






tion (minutes), . 


60 


105 




105 


200 



lodin Number. This, also called iodin value, is the per- 
centage of iodin absorbed under specified conditions. Baron 
Hiibl discovered that a solution of iodin and mercuric chlorid 
was more uniform in action than iodin alone, and this solution, 
commonly known as Hiibl's reagent, is usually employed. 
The following reagents are used in the process : 

Iodin solution. 25 grams of iodin are dissolved in 500 c.c. 
of 95 per cent, alcohol. 

Mercuric chlorid solution. 25 grams of mercuric chlorid 
solution are dissolved in 500 c.c. of 95 per cent, alcohol and 
the solution filtered, if necessary. 

Starch solution. A solution of 5 grams of starch in 200 
c.c. of water. 

Potassium iodid solution. 15 grams in 100 c.c. of water. 

Potassium dicliromate solution. 3.874 grams of pure potas- 
sium dichromate in 1000 c.c. of water. 

For use, equal parts of the iodin and mercuric chlorid 
solutions are mixed and allowed to stand at least 12 hours. 



FATS AND OILS 143 

The strength of the thiosulfate solution is determined as 
follows : 20 c.c. of potassium dichromate solution, 10 c.c. of 
potassium iodid solution, and 5 c.c. of strong hydrochloric acid 
are mixed in a glass-stoppered flask, and the solution of sodium 
thiosulfate is allowed to flow in from a buret until the yellow 
color of the mixture has almost disappeared. A few drops 
of starch solution are then put in and the addition of the 
thiosulfate continued until the blue color just appears. The 
number of cubic centimeters of thiosulfate solution used, 
multiplied by 5, is equivalent to I gram of iodin. 

Not more than I gram of fat is weighed in a glass-stoppered 
flask holding about 300 c.c., and 10 c.c. of chloroform are 
added. After complete solution 30 c.c. of the iodin solution 
are added and the flask is placed in the dark for three hours, 
with occasional shaking. 100 c.c. of water and 20 c.c. of 
potassium iodid solution are added to the contents of the 
flask. Any iodin which may be noticed upon the stopper of 
the flask should be washed back into the flask with the 
potassium iodid solution. The excess of iodin is now titrated 
with the sodium thiosulfate solution, which is run in gradually, 
with constant shaking, until the yellow color of the solution 
has almost disappeared. A few drops of starch-paste are 
added, and the titration continued until the blue color has 
entirely disappeared. Toward the end of the reaction the 
flask should be closed and violently shaken, so that iodin 
remaining in the chloroform may be taken up by the potassium 
iodid solution. A sufficient quantity of sodium thiosulfate 
solution should be added to prevent a reappearance of any 
blue color in the flask for five minutes. 

At the time of adding the iodin solution to the fats, two 
flasks of the same size as those used tor the determination 
should be employed for conducting the operation without fat. 
In every other respect the performance of the blank experi- 



144 FOOD ANALYSIS 

merits should be just as described. These blank experiments 
must be made each time the iodin solution is used. 

IODIN NUMBER OF LIQUID ACIDS. This determination is 
sometimes of value for detection of admixture of vegetable 
oils with animal oils. The separation of the oleic and other 
liquid fatty acids is best made by the method of J. Muter and 
L. De Koningh, as follows : 

3 grams of the fat are mixed with 50 c.c. of alcohol and a 
fragment of potassium hydroxid in a flask furnished with a 
long tube. The mixture is boiled until saponification is com- 
plete, when a drop of phenolphthalein solution is added and 
acetic acid until the solution is slightly acid. Alcoholic 
solution of potassium hydroxid is added drop by drop until a 
faint permanent pink tint is obtained, when the liquid is poured 
slowly, with constant stirring, into a beaker containing a boil- 
ing solution of 3 grams of neutral lead acetate in 200 c.c. of 
water. The solution is rapidly cooled and stirred at the same 
time, and, when cold, the clear liquid is poured off. The 
precipitate is well washed with boiling water by decantation, 
transferred to a stoppered bottle, mixed with 120 c.c. of ether, 
and allowed to remain 12 hours. Wallenstein and Finck use 
a Drechsel gas-washing flask having the tube shortened about 
two-thirds, to contain the ethereal solution, and pass a current 
of hydrogen through it for about a minute. In the case of 
white fats the liquid is said to remain colorless at the end of 
1 2 hours, but if free access of air is permitted, a dark-yellow 
solution is produced by oxidation. Lead oleate, hypogeate, 
linolate, or ricinolate will be dissolved by the ether, leaving 
lead laurate, myristate, palmitate, stearate, and arachidate 
undissolved. Lead erucate is sparingly soluble in cold ether, 
but readily in hot. The contents of the bottle are filtered 
through a covered filter into a Muter separating-tube (Fig. 
40), 40 c.c. of dilute hydrochloric acid (1:4) added, and the 
tube shaken until the clearing of the ethereal solution shows 



FATS AND OILS 



'45 



that the decomposition of the lead soaps is complete. The 
aqueous liquid, containing lead chlorid and excess of hydro- 
chloric acid, is run off through the bottom tap, water added, 
and agitated with the ether and the process of washing by 
agitation repeated until the removal of the acid is complete. 
Water is then added to the zero mark and sufficient ether to 
bring the ether to a definite volume (e. g., 200 c.c.). An 
aliquot portion of this (e. g., 50 c.c.) is then 
removed through the side tap and the residue 
weighed after evaporation of the ether in a 
current of carbon dioxid. Another aliquot 
portion of the ethereal solution should be dis- 
tilled to a small bulk (avoiding complete evap- 
oration), alcohol added, and the solution 
titrated with decinormal sodium hydroxid 
and phenolphthalein or methyl-orange, from 
which the fatty acids may be calculated from 
the result, or their mean combining weight 
deduced therefrom. A third aliquot part of 
the ethereal solution should be evaporated at 
about 60 in a flask traversed by a rapid stream 
of dry carbon dioxid. When every trace of 
ether is removed, 50 c.c. of the iodin-mercur- 
ic chlorid solution (p. 142) should be added, 
the stopper inserted, and the liquid kept in 
absolute darkness for 12 hours, after which 
an excess of potassium iodid solution is added 
and 250 c.c. of water, and the excess of iodin ascertained with 
thiosulfate solution in the usual way. From the result the 
iodin number is calculated. 

Volatile Acids. This method was first suggested by Otto 

Hehner and A. Angell, but was systematized by K. Reichert, 

and hence is generally called the Reichert process. In this 

form it is carried out by saponifying 2.5 grams of the fat, 

13 




Fir.. 40. 



146 FOOD ANALYSIS 

adding excess of sulfuric acid, distilling a definite portion of 
the liquid, and titrating the distillate with ^ alkali. The num- 
ber of cubic centimeters of this solution required to overcome 
the acidity of the distillate is called the Rcichcrt number. E. 
Meissl suggested the use of 5 grams, and the number so 
obtained is called the Reichert-Meissl number. Alcoholic 
solution of potassium hydroxid was originally used for sap- 
onification, but most chemists now use the solution devised 
by Leffmann and Beam, namely, sodium hydroxid in glycerol. 
The reagents and operation are as follows : 

Glycerol-soda. 100 grams of pure sodium hydroxid are 
dissolved in 100 c.c. of distilled water and allowed to stand 
until clear. 20 c.c. of this solution are mixed with 180 c.c. 
of pure concentrated glycerol. The mixture can be conveni- 
ently kept in a capped bottle holding a 10 c.c. pipet, with a 
wide outlet. . . 

Sulfuric Acid. 20 c.c. of pure concentrated sulfuric acid, 
made up with distilled water to 100 c.c. 

Sodium Hydroxid. An approximately decinormal, accu- 
rately standardized, solution of sodium hydroxid. 

Indicator. An alcoholic solution of phenolphthalein or 
aqueous solution of methyl-orange. 

A 300 c.c. flask is washed thoroughly, rinsed with alco- 
hol and then with ether, and thoroughly dried by heat- 
ing in the water-oven. After cooling, it is allowed to 
stand for about 15 minutes and weighed. A pipet, gradu- 
ated to 5.75 c.c., is heated to about 60 and filled to the 
mark with the well-mixed fat, which is then run into the 
flask. After standing for about 15 minutes the flask and con- 
tents are weighed. 20 c.c. of the glycerol-soda are added 
and the flask heated over the Bunsen burner. The mixture 
may foam somewhat ; this may be controlled, and the opera- 
tion hastened by shaking the flask. When all the water has 
been driven off, the liquid will cease to boil, and if the heat 



FATS AND ol I > 



147 



and agitation be continued for a few moments, complete sap- 
onification will be effected, the mass becoming clear. The 
whole operation, exclusive of weighing the fat, requires about 
five minutes. The flask is withdrawn from the heat and the 
soap dissolved in 135 c.c. of water. The first portions of 
water should be added drop by drop, and the flask shaken 
between each addition in order to avoid foaming. When the 
soap is dissolved, 5 c.c. of the dilute sulfuric acid are added, 




FIG. 41. 



a piece of pumice dropped in, and the liquid distilled until 
1 10 c.c. have been collected. The condensing tube should 
be of glass, and the distillation conducted at such a rate that 
the above amount of distillate is collected in 30 minutes. 

The distillate is usually clear ; if not, it should be thor- 
oughly mixed, filtered through a dry filter, and 100 c.c. of 
the filtrate taken. A little of the indicator is added U> the 
distillate, and the standard alkali run in from a buret until 
neutralization is attained. If only 100 c.c. of the distillate 



148 FOOD ANALYSIS 

have been used for the titration, the number of cubic centi- 
meters of alkali should be increased by one-tenth. 

The distilling apparatus shown in figure 43 is that recom- 
mended by the A. O. A. C. (and since adopted in Great 
Britain), and the directions for preparing the flask are also 
from the same source, but when it is intended merely to dis- 
tinguish butter from oleomargarin, it will be sufficient to 
measure into a flask 3 or 6 c.c. of the clear fat, and operate 
upon this directly in an ordinary distilling apparatus. 

A blank experiment should be made to determine the 
amount of standard alkali required by the materials employed. 
With a good quality of glycerol, this will not exceed 0.5 c.c. 

Most fats give distillates containing but little acid. 

Saponification Value. Koettstorfer Number. This is 
the number of milligrams of potassium hydroxid required for 
the saponification of i gram of fat. Its use was suggested 
by M. Berthelot, and it was applied to the examination of 
butter by J. Koettstorfer. If the saponification value be 
divided by 10, the result will be the percentage of alkali 
required for saponification. The reagents and process are as 
follows : 

Alcoholic potassium hydroxid. 40 grams of good potassium 
hydroxid are dissolved in sufficient 95 per cent, alcohol to 
make 1000 c.c. of alcohol. The solution should be clear and 
not darker than light yellow. Alcohol that becomes brown 
is unfit for use. 

Purified methyl alcohol may be substituted for ethyl 
alcohol. Sodium hydroxid may be substituted for potassium 
hydroxid. The saponification value of sodium hydroxid may 
be converted into the standard number by multiplying by 
1.4025. 

Half-normal hydrochloric acid accurately standardized. 

/ ^hcnolphf/iali'in solution. 

The process is as follows : About 1.5 grams of the sample 



FATS AND OILS 



149 



are accurately weighed into a small flask, 25 c.c. of the 
alcoholic alkali added, and the mass saponified. The same 
amount of the alkaline solution must be used in all compara- 
tive experiments, and it must be accurately measured. The 
flask is heated under an inverted condenser or, more simply, 
with a tube about 50 cm. long and 0.5 cm. caliber passing 
through the cork. The flask is heated on the water- bath for 
30 minutes, being occasionally given a rotatory motion. The 
alcohol should not boil actively. A drop of the indicator 
solution is added, the liquid allowed 
to cool somewhat, the flask being 
closed, and then titrated with the 
standard acid. A blank test should 
be made, which will eliminate some 
of the errors of experiment. The 
number of cubic centimeters used 
for titration of the saponified mass, 
subtracted from the number used 
in the blank experiment, wrll give 
the acid corresponding to the alkali 
which has been neutralized by the 
fat. From this, the amount of alkali 
can be determined and calculated by 
simple proportion to I gram of fat. 

Flasks of the same kind of glass should be used in com- 
parative experiments, as some of the cheaper forms of glass 
are notably affected by alkali. A special form of saponifica- 
tion flask and method of heating used by the A. O. A. C. are 
shown in figure 42. The flask is arranged so that the cork- 
can be tied down. 

A II. Allen suggested the use of the figure representing 
the grams of fat saponified by 1000 c.c. of normal alkali. 
This would render the method independent of the alkali 
employed, but the suggestion has not been generally approved. 




FIG. 42. 



I 5O FOOD ANALYSIS 

The datum was called by Allen saponification equivalent. It 
may be obtained in any case by dividing 56100 by the saponi- 
fication number. Similarly, the -saponification number may 
be obtained by dividing 56100 by the saponification equiva- 
lent. 

Acid Value This is the amount of free fatty acids pres- 
ent in the sample. The reagents and process are as follows : 

Sodium Jiydroxid solution. Decinormal solution of sodium 
hydroxid. 

Neutral alcohol. Alcohol (95 per cent.) carefully neutral- 
ized by addition of a drop or two of phenolphthalein solution, 
and running in the alkali solution until the color-change 
occurs. 10 grams of the sample are placed in a bottle pro- 
vided with a glass stopper, about 50 c.c. of the neutral alco- 
hol and i c.c. of the indicator added, and the mass heated to 
boiling by immersing the bottle in hot water. The bottle is 
then stoppered and well agitated and the liquid titrated with 
standard alkali, the bottle being vigorously shaken after each 
addition until a faint pink coloration persists for a minute or 
two. On long standing the alkali acts upon the fat itself, 
i c.c. of decinormal alkali is equivalent to 0.0256 gram of 
palmitic acid, 0.0284 gram of stearic acid, or 0.0282 gram of 
oleic acid. As the acid present may not be known, it is 
usual to express the result as the milligrams of potassium 
hydroxid required to neutralize I gram of fat. This is called 
the acid number. When sodium hydroxid is used for titra- 
tion, the acid number may be calculated by multiplying the 
quantity of sodium hydroxid required for i gram of sample 
by 1.4. 

Solubility in Acetic Acid. Valenta's Test. Fats and 
oils are arranged by Valenta into three classes, according to 
their solubility in acetic acid. Equal volumes of the oil and 
acid are placed in a test-tube, thoroughly mixed, and, if no 
solution takes place, warmed. 



FATS AND OILS 15! 

(7<iss i. Completely soluble "at ordinary temperature: 
Olive kernel oil ; castor oil. 

Class 2. Completely soluble or nearly so at temperatures 
ranging from 23 up to the boiling-point of glacial acetic 
acid : Palm oil ; coconut oil ; olive oil ; cacao-butter ; sesame 
oil ; cottonseed oil ; arachis oil ; beef tallow ; butter, etc. 

Class j. Not completely dissolved even at the boiling- 
point of glacial acetic acid : Oils obtained from the seeds of 
the Crucifertz ; rape-seed oil ; mustard-seed oil; hedge-mus- 
tard oil. 

For the practical application of the test the method of VV. 
A. Chattavvay, T. M. Pearmain, and C. G. Moor is satisfac- 
tory : 

2.75 grams of the sample are weighed in a short, rather 
thick tube with a well-fitting stopper, 3 c.c. of acetic acid 
(99.5 per cent.) are added, the tube closed, placed in a beaker 
of warm water, and the heat increased until, after well shaking 
the tube, the contents become quite clear. The source of 
heat is then removed, and the test-tube so placed that it is in 
the center of the beaker of heated water, and, by means of a 
thermometer attached to the tube by a rubber band, the 
whole is allowed to rest until the change from brilliancy to 
turbidity takes place. The change is very definite, and can 
be repeated as often as is wished, with a maximum error of 
about 0.25. 

Thermal Reaction with Sulfuric Acid. Maumene's 
Test Maumene found that on mixing sulfuric acid with 
drying oils a higher temperature is produced than with non- 
drying oils. With the same sample the temperature will 
depend upon the acid. The strength of acid employed 
should be determined by titration, since the specific gravity 
of the acid of 96 per cent, and of 99 per cent, is practically 
identical. L. Archbutt recommends the following method of 
operating : 50 grams of the sample, weighed closely, are 



152 FOOD ANALYSIS 

placed in a beaker of 200 c.c. capacity, and, together with 
the bottle of acid, placed in a vessel of water until both have 
acquired the temperature of the water, the thermometer hav- 
ing been placed in the oil. The beaker is removed from the 
water, wiped outside, and placed in a nest of cardboard having 
hollow sides stuffed with cotton. (A large beaker, lined with 
cotton, may also be used.) The temperature having been 
noted, 10 c.c. of acid are rapidly withdrawn from the bottle, 
which is immediately closed, the acid is allowed to flow into 
the oil while it is being stirred with the thermometer, and the 
stirring is continued until no further rise of temperature is 
observed. The stirring must be so managed as to effect as 
perfect admixture of the oil and acid as possible, thereby in- 
suring an even development of heat throughout the mixture. 

The best results are obtained with an acid about 97 per 
cent. It is desirable to keep on hand a stock of oil of known 
purity, and to test some of this with each set of samples 
examined. 

Specific Temperature Reaction. The discrepancies ob- 
served in Maumene's method may be largely eliminated by 
that devised by R. T. Thomson and H. Ballentyne, which is 
to compare the rise of temperature with oil and with an equal 
volume of water under similar conditions. The number ob- 
tained by dividing the oil figure by the water figure is multi- 
plied by 100 to eliminate decimals, and the datum so obtained 
is called the specific temperature reaction. 

Bromin Thermal Value. O. Hehner and C. A. Mitchell 
ascertained that the heat evolved in the reaction of bromin 
with unsaturated fatty bodies furnishes more definite data than 
does sulfuric acid. As the action of bromin upon some oils 
is violent, it is moderated by the use of a diluent such as 
chloroform or glacial acetic acid. The latter has the advan- 
tage, owing to its high boiling-point, of allowing a wider 
range of temperature. The procedure is as follows : The 




FATS AND OILS 153 

bromin, oil, and diluent are all brought to the same tempera- 
ture. I gram of the oil is dissolved in 10 c.c. of chloroform 
in a vacuum-jacketed test-tube. Exactly I c.c. of bromin 
(measured by means of a pipet, connected at the upper end 
with a narrow tube filled with caustic lime, and having an as- 
bestos plug at each end) is added and the rise of temperature 
determined by a thermometer graduated into fifths. Acids 
are dissolved in glacial acetic acid instead of chloroform. 

A definite relation exists between the iodin number and the 
heat produced by bromin. In Hehncr and Mitchell's experi- 
ments it was found that if the rise of temperature in degrees 
was multiplied by 5.5, a close approximation to the iodin 
number was always obtained, except with rape and linseed 
oils, but each observer must ascertain the factor applying to 
particular cases. 

H. W. Wiley has made this method more accurate and 
more easy of application. A solution of bromin in four 
parts by volume of chloroform or carbon tetrachlorid is em- 
ployed. This is to be made up in quantity sufficient for one 
day's use, and kept in the dark. Dissolving the sample in 
similar solvents is an additional convenience. 10 grams of 
the sample, in sufficient chloroform or carbon tetrachlorid to 
make 50 c.c. of solution, will suffice for nine determinations/ 
At least four determinations should be made. The apparatus 
is shown in figure 43. The tube for holding the reagent and 
thermometer is about 40. cm. in length, and 1.5 cm. internal 
diameter. It is conveniently held in a drying jar, being fitted 
air-tight by a rubber stopper. Air is withdrawn from the 
jacketing jar through the side tubulure. The bromin solu- 
tion is contained in a stout-walled Erlenmeyer flask with a 
side tubulure provided with a rubber bulb. Through the 
stopper passes a pipet, and the flask may be rendered air- 
tight by gentle pressure on the stopper. The thermometer 
should be graduated to 0.2 and be read to a tenth by a lens. 
14 



154 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



The operation should be conducted in a room at uniform 
temperature. 

The solutions and apparatus are allowed to stand until all 




FIG. 43. 



reach a uniform temperature. 5 c.c. of the solution of the 
sample are placed in the inner tube by means of the pipet, 
without allowing any of the solution to run down the walls 



FATS AND OILS 155 

of the tube, the thermometer is inserted, and the bromin so- 
lution is forced up into the pipet by compressing the rubber 
bulb until the liquid has passed the mark on the stem. The 
top of the pipet is closed by the finger, the stopper of the 
flask loosened, and the liquid allowed to run out until it 
reaches the mark, when it is transferred to the mixing tube 
and allowed to flow directly into the solution of fat, but it is now 
not necessary to prevent the liquid running down the side of 
the tube. The empty pipet is returned to the flask and the 
thermometer is observed at once by means of a lens since the 
bromination is practically instantaneous, the mercury reaching 
its maximum height in about a minute after the pipet is with- 
drawn. When the mercury begins to fall, air is admitted to 
the jacketing space, the mixing tube is withdrawn, its con- 
tents emptied, and the tube held inverted until the residual 
bromin vapor escapes. The tube may be cleaned by wiping 
it with a long test-tube cleaner or may be used again without 
cleaning, after standing inverted for half an hour. Traces of 
brominated oil which may remain upon the side of the tube 
do not interfere unless they obscure the thermometer. By 
the above manipulation the thermometer soon returns to the 
room temperature, and a second determination may be made 
in half an hour. 

As noted by Hehner and Mitchell, each analytic system 
must be separately standardized and the factor for calculating 
the iodin absorption determined. It is important not to stir 
or churn the mixture of oil and bromin further than is pro- 
duced by the running in of the solution itself. Carbon tetra- 
chlorid is the preferable solvent, but the rise of temperature 
is slightly higher with chloroform. 

A. H. Gill and I. Hatch have proposed to facilitate the 
comparison of tests made with different apparatus by employ- 
ing a standardizing material, and recommend sublimed cam- 
phor for this purpose. 7.5 grams of the camphor are dis- 



I 56 FOOD ANALYSIS 

solved in carbon tetrachlorid, the solution made up to 25 c.c., 
and portions of 5 c.c. each brominated. The temperature 
increase obtained with various oils js divided by the rise ob- 
served with camphor, giving a specific temperature increase, 
analogous to that suggested by Thomson & Ballantyne (see 
p. 152). By dividing the iodin value of an oil by the specific 
temperature increase, a figure will be obtained by which the 
iodin value may be approximately calculated. 

Elaidin Test. i c.c. of mercury is dissolved in 12 c.c. 
of cold nitric acid of 1.42 specific gravity. 2 c.c. of the 
freshly -made deep green solution are shaken in a wide- 
mouthed stoppered bottle with 50 c.c. of the sample to be 
tested and the agitation repeated every ten minutes during 
two hours. When treated in this manner, oils consisting of 
nearly pure olein or of mixtures of olein with solid esters, 
such as palmitin and stearin, give a more or less solid product. 
Olive oil is remarkable for the canary or lemon-yellow and 
great firmness of the mass formed. After 24 hours the hard- 
ness of the product is such that it is impervious to a glass 
rod, and sometimes rings when struck ; but this character is 
also possessed by the elaidins yielded by the arachis and lard 
oils. In making the test, it is important to note the time re- 
quired to obtain a "solid" product, which will not move on 
shaking the bottle, as well as the ultimate consistency. The 
temperature should be kept nearly constant, or erratic results 
may be obtained. 

The behavior of the more important oils, when tested in 
the foregoing manner, is described by A. H. Allen as fol- 
lows : 

A hard mass is yielded, among others, by olive, almond, 
lard, and sometimes arachis oils. 

A product of the consistency of butter is given by mustard, 
and sometimes by arachis and rape oils. 

A pasty or buttery mass which separates from a fluid portion 



FATS AND OILS 157 

is yielded by rape, sesame, cottonseed, sunflower, and some- 
times mustard oils. Liquid products are yielded by linseed, 
hempseed, walnut, and other drying oils. 

The results of the elaidin test must be accepted with cau- 
tion, since it is affected by many conditions, such as tempera- 
ture, shape of the containing vessel, and the mode of prepa- 
ration of the nitrous acid. The extent to which the sample 
has been exposed to light and air is a still more important 
factor ; it has been shown that olive oil after exposure to sun- 
light for two weeks may fail to respond to the test. 

Index of Refraction. This datum differs notably in differ- 
ent oils, but it is not of much value in detecting adulteration 
unless considerable of the adulterant be present. Several in- 
struments have been devised for making refraction determina- 
tion ; the familiar ones are the refractometer of Abbe, the 
oleorefractometer of Amagat and Jean, and the butyrorefrac- 
tometer of Zeiss. 

The oleorefractometer consists essentially of a collimator, a 
view-telescope, and a vessel* to contain the oil. The last is 
provided with parallel glass slides, and in the center is a vessel 
with two plate glass sides, inclined to each other at an angle 
of 107. An arbitrary scale is placed in the focus of the 
eye-piece, and the reading is made by means of a semicircular 
stop in the collimator, the image of which is thrown on the 
scale and divides the field into a dark and a light portion. If 
the outer vessel and inner prism be filled with the same oil, 
the light which passes through will not be refracted, and con- 
sequently no alteration of the position of the image will take 
place. If, however, the inner prism be filled with a different 
oil, refraction will take place and the line dividing the field 
will be displaced to the right or left. The instrument is fur- 
nished with a standard oil, said to be sheepsfoot oil, for use in 
the outer vessel. Instead of this, the oil may be compared 
with a sample of the same kind known to be pure. 



158 FOOD ANALYSIS 

The butyrorefractometer has been strongly recommended 
for the examination of butter. It is equally adapted for the 
examination of fats and oils, and maybe used for the determ- 
ination of the index of refraction as well. 

Drying Property. Livache's Test. The so-called drying 
of oils (a process of oxidation) is hastened by admixture with 
finely divided lead. This is prepared by precipitating lead 
acetate by zinc, washing the precipitate rapidly with water, 
alcohol, and ether in succession, and drying at very low pres- 
sure. (Probably drying in nitrogen gas would be preferable.) 
i gram of the dried lead is mixed on a watch-glass with not 
more than 0.7 gram of the sample by dropping the latter so 
that it is distributed over the mass of the lead. The glass is 
allowed to stand at room temperature exposed to light, but 
reasonably protected from dust. 

Drying oils absorb the maximum quantity of oxygen after 
from 1 8 hours to 3 days, but non-drying oils do not begin to 
gain weight until after 4 or 5 days. Fat-acids, except those 
from cottonseed oil, behave the same as the fats. Livache's 
results are given in the following table. The figures show the 
percentage of increase in weight after the time specified. A 
drying oil (linseed) is added for comparison with the food oils. 
The figure for maize oil is given by Vulte and Gibson. 

OIL. 2 DAYS. 7 DAYS. 10 DAYS. 

Olive O 1.7 

Cottonseed, 5.9 

Maize, 5.0 

Arachis, o 1.8 

Sesame, O 2.4 

Rape, o 2.9 

Linseed, 14.3 

Soluble and Insoluble Acids. This method, due to O. 
Hehner and A. Angell, has been much modified by other in- 
vestigators. The proportion of acids insoluble in water is 
often called the Hehner value. The following method, de- 



FATS AND OILS I 59 

scribed by A. H. Allen, is somewhat different from that rec- 
ommended by the A. O. A. C, but will serve for practical 
purposes, it being understood that blank tests and tests with 
standard oils should be made for comparison : About 5 grams 
of the sample, accurately weighed, are placed in a saponifica- 
tion flask, 50 c.c. of a solution of 40 grams of sodium hy- 
droxid to 1000 c.c. of strong alcohol added, the flask closed, 
and the mixture heated in a steam-bath until complete saponi- 
fication has occurred. The flask is cooled, the soap solution 
acidulated with sulfuric acid, the aqueous liquid separated 
from the layer of fatty acids, and the latter several times 
boiled with a considerable quantity of water in a flask fur- 
nished with a reflux condenser. The liquids resulting from 
these operations are separated from the insoluble fatty acids, 
which it is desirable to boil again with a moderate quantity of 
water, while driving a current of steam through the flask in 
which they are contained, collecting the distillate, and treating 
it like the washings. The acidulated aqueous liquid first sep- 
arated from the layer of fatty acids is then distilled to a small 
bulk, and the distillate exactly neutralized with standard so- 
dium hydroxid, using phenolphthaltin as an indicator. The 
first washings from the insoluble fatty acids are then added to 
the contents of the distilling flask, and the liquid again dis- 
tilled to a small bulk, the process being repeated with the 
succeeding washings. The different distillates should be 
titrated separately with decinormal alkali and phenolphthalcin, 
so that the progress and completion of the washing may be 
followed, and some information obtained as to the nature and 
relative proportions of the lower fatty acids present. 

The neutralized distillates should be united and evaporated 
gently to dryness, and the residue dried at 100 until the 
weight is constant. It consists of the sodium salts of the 
acids that passed over in the distillation. If the number of 
cubic centimeters of N sodium hydroxid employed for neu- 



l6o FOOD ANALYSIS 

tralization be multiplied by 0.22, and the product be sub- 
tracted from the weight of the dry residue, the difference 
will be weight of the volatile acids. 

When coconut oil and palmnut oil are treated in this man- 
ner, the distillate will be found to contain lauric acid, which, 
though almost insoluble in water, is volatile in a current of 
steam. It may be separated from the more soluble volatile 
fatty acids by filtering the distillate. 

Cholesterol and Phytosterol. Most vegetable oils, with 
the notable exception of olive oil and palm oil, contain a 
small proportion of phytosterol. Animal oils and olive oil, 
on the other hand, contain cholesterol, and it is thought to 
be possible to distinguish a vegetable oil from one of animal 
origin by the isolation and identification of one or the other 
of these bodies. A method for the extraction of cholesterol 
and phytosterol is that of A. Foster & R. Riechelmann : 50 
grams of the fat are twice boiled, for about 30 minutes at a 
time, with 75 c.c. of 95 per cent, alcohol in a flask fitted 
with a reflux condenser, the flask being meanwhile well 
shaken. The alcoholic solution is mixed with 15 c.c. of 30 
per cent, sodium hydroxid solution, and boiled on the water- 
bath in a flask fitted with a condensation tube until about one- 
fourth of the alcohol is evaporated. The fluid is then evap- 
orated nearly to dryness in a porcelain basin and the residue 
shaken with ether. The ethereal solution is evaporajted to 
dryness, the residue treated with a little ether, filtered, evap- 
orated, and the residue crystallized from 95 per cent, alcohol. 

Von Raumer determines the amount of crude cholesterol 
and phytosterol in fats as follows : 50 gram's of the oil are 
saponified with alcoholic potassium hydroxid. The resulting 
soap is evaporated to dryness, reduced to powder, and ex- 
tracted with 50 to 75 c.c. of ether in a Soxhlet apparatus, 
plugs of fat-free cotton being placed above and below the 
layer of soap. The residue is saponified again with 10 c.c. 



FATS AND OILS l6l 

of half normal alkali, evaporated to dryness with sand, and 
re-extracted as before during two hours. When the work is 
carefully done, the second saponification and extraction is un- 
necessary. 

The following amounts of residue were obtained from 100 
grams of oil : Cottonseed oil, 0.719 gram ; sesame oil, 1.314 
grams to 1.325 grams ; lard, 0.217 gram. 

Pure cholesterol can easily be distinguished from phyto- 
sterol by the form and grouping of the crystals. If both 
bodies are present, the mixture crystallizes in one form only, 
the crystals either approximating to the form of phytosterol 
or, if cholesterol be present in the greater quantity, differing 
from the pure crystals of either body. 

Cholesterol is insoluble in water, sparingly soluble in cold 
alcohol, but dissolves readily in ether, chloroform, petro- 
leum spirit, and carbon disulfid. It crystallizes in anhydrous 
needles of melting-point 147, but from its hot alcoholic 
solution it is deposited in lamina,' composed of extremely thin 
rhombic plates, often shoxving reentering angles. A delicate 
test for cholesterol is that of Hager, as modified by Salkow- 
ski : A few centigrams of cholesterol are dissolved in 2 c.c. 
of chloroform, an equal volume of sulfuric acid is added, 
and the mixture shaken. The chloroform solution immedi- 
ately becomes blood-red, afterward cherry-red and purple ; 
this last tint remains for several days. The sulfuric acid 
layer under the chloroform shows a strong green fluorescence. 
On pouring a few drops of the purple chloroform layer into 
a porcelain basin, the red color changes rapidly to blue, green, 
and finally to yellow. On diluting the purple chloroform 
solution with more chloroform, it becomes nearly colorless, 
or acquires an intense blue ; if it now be shaken again with 
the sulfuric acid layer, the former coloration appears. These 
changes of color are due to traces of water in the chloro- 
form. 



1 62 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Phytosterol resembles cholesterol, but differs from it in crys- 
talline form and in melting-point. From a hot alcoholic solu- 
tion phytosterol crystallizes in solid needles grouped in tufts. 
Under the microscope these appear as long solid needles 
arranged in star or bunch-like groups. Like the cholesterol 
crystals, these contain a molecule of water, but they melt at 
132 to 134. (Bomer gives a mean melting-point of 137, 
but this figure requires confirmation.) 

The solution of phytosterol in chloroform gives the same 
reaction with sulfuric acid as does cholesterol, but there is the 
slight difference that the coloration obtained with the former 
passes after a few days into a bluish-red, whereas the choles- 
terol solution remains more of a cherry-red. 

Acetyl Value. This determination, originally suggested 
by Benedikt, is most conveniently carried out by the method 
of J. Lewkowitsch 20 : 10 grams of the sample are boiled for 
two hours with an equal volume of acetic anhydrid in a flask 
provided with an inverted condenser ; the mass is then trans- 
ferred to a larger beaker, diluted with several hundred cubic 
centimeters of water, and boiled for 30 minutes, with a slow 
current of carbon dioxid passed through by means of a tube 
drawn out at the lower end to a fine opening. This prevents 
bumping. On cooling, two layers are formed. The water- 
layer is drawn off by a siphon and the other portion washed 
three times by boiling with convenient measures of water. 
Prolonged washing should be avoided. The acetylated prod- 
uct is freed from water by filtration through a dry filter in a 
water-oven at 100. 

5 grams of the substance are saponified as noted on page 
148, the alcohol is evaporated, and the soap dissolved in 
water. The subsequent operations may now be completed by 
two methods, "distillation" or "filtration." The latter is 
the shorter and more convenient. 

Distillation Method. The liquid is made up to a volume of 



FATS AND OILS 163 

several hundred cubic centimeters in a flask fitted with an 
arrangement for passing in steam or for adding water from 
time to time. Sufficient dilute sulfuric acid (i part of acid 
to 10 of water) is added to make the liquid slightly acid, and 
distillation is carried on until about 700 c.c. are collected. 
The distillate is filtered and titrated with decinormal alkali. 
Phenolphthalein is recommended as an indicator, but probably 
methyl-orange will serve as well. The number of cubic cen- 
timeters of solution required to neutralize the distillate, mul- 
tiplied by 5.61 and the product divided by the weight of the 
acetylated material, gives the: acctyl number. 

Filtration Method. The solution of the saponified acetyl- 
ated substance is mixed with sufficient standard sulfuric acid 
just sufficient to neutralize the alkali added for saponification, 
and the mixture warmed gently. The acids will separate as 
an oily layer. The layer is removed, washed with boiling 
water until the washings are not acid, titrated with decinormal 
alkali, and the acetyl number calculated as above. 

The acetyl number is the number of milligrams of potas- 
sium hydroxid required for neutralizing the acetic acid ob- 
tained from i gram of the acetylated substance. 

In this process cholesterol and phytosterol are included in 
the acetylization. 

Substances yielding volatile acids give an acetyl number 
too high ; this condition will affect the distillation method 
more than the filtration method. To eliminate most of this 
error, the percentage of volatile acid should be determined 
and the figures obtained deducted from the acetyl number. 

The water used in both methods should be freed as far as 
possible from carbon dioxid. Even the water used in pro- 
ducing the open steam should be brought to active boiling 
before the steam is let into the flask. Waters rich in car- 
bonate are especially objectionable. A slight excess of sul- 
furic acid causes the insoluble acids to separate better, but 



164 FOOD ANALYSIS 

this must, of course, be known accurately and allowance 
made for it. 

It is possible that the data elucidated by H. D. Richmond 
with regard to the rate of distillation of acids of the acetic 
series could be applied to the distillation method with advan- 
tage, but a special investigation will be needed to determine 
the point. 

Viscosity. Practical determinations of viscosity are com- 
parative only and are of little value unless uniform methods 
are employed. Many forms of viscosimeter have been de- 
vised. The only form we can recommend for general use is 
the torsion viscosimeter devised by O. S. Doolittle. A de- 
scription of the instrument and its use is unnecessary, as it is 
made according to standard patterns and full working direc- 
tions are furnished with it. 

W..C. Blasdale investigated the relative viscosities of solu- 
tions of soap from different grades of olive oils and found the 
figures of much value. He used the torsion viscosimeter. 
The preparation of the solution is as follows : 1 5 grams of 
the sample are saponified with a mixture of 10 c.c. of alcohol 
and 30 c.c. of water containing 7.5 grams of potassium hy- 
droxid. The mass is washed into a large dish, heated until 
the alcohol is removed, diluted to 500 c.c. at 20, and the 
viscosity determined. The result is expressed by Blasdale in 
the number of grams of sugar that it would be necessary to 
add to a liter of water to get the same readings. With some 
oils it would be necessary to dilute the solution to 1000 c.c. 

Blasdale's results were as follows : 

OILS. VISCOSITY. 

Olive (California), 573-655 

Cottonseed, 280 

Arachis, 220 

Sesame 415 

Rape 670 

Sweet almond, 645 



FATS AND OILS 



I6 5 



Mustard-seed oils give high viscosity figures, and a mixture 
of these with cottonseed oil in some proportions would 
escape recognition by this test. 

Unsaponifiable Matter. Most fats and oils contain ap- 
preciable amounts of unsaponifiable substances, but the 
determination of them is of value principally in detecting 
adulteration with mineral oil and paraffin. In many cases 
saponification and solution of the soap in water will not 
suffice for separation, and the routine method 
devised by A. H. Allen must be followed : 

5 grams of the sample are saponified, the 
solution freed from alcohol if any has been 
used, and transferred to a stoppered separator 
(Fig. 44) of 200 c.c. capacity, the exit tube 
of which is cut off obliquely. The mass is 
diluted with water to about 80 c.c., 60 c.c. of 
ether added, the vessel closed, well shaken, 
and allowed to rest. Separation does not 
always occur readily, but may often be induced 
by cooling the contents, by adding a little 
sodium hydroxid solution, more ether, or a 
few cubic centimeters of alcohol and rotating 
the mass gently. The aqueous liquid is run 
out, a few drops of sodium hydroxid solution 
and 10 c.c. of water are added, gently agitated, and run off. 
This treatment is repeated, after which the ether is run off in 
a tared flask, the aqueous liquid is agitated with a fresh por- 
tion of ether, which is washed and poured into the tared vessel 
as before. This process is again performed, when it will be 
complete. The ethereal solution will often be fluorescent. 
The greater portion of the ether should be distilled off in a 
recovering apparatus and the rest evaporated in the water- 
bath. If the mass retains globules of water, the flask should 
be held horizontally and rotated rapidly so as to spread the 




FIG. 44. 



1 66 FOOD ANALYSIS 

residue in a thin layer. When no more water is visible and 
the odor of ether is very slight, the flask is placed on its side 
in the water-oven for I 5 minutes, cooled, and weighed. 

Long heating should be avoided, as some hydrocarbons are 
sensibly volatile at 100. Spermaceti and waxes yield in 
this process a large percentage of unsaponifiable matter, hence 
it is not available for the detection of paraffin in such sub- 
stances. 

In ordinary cases the distribution of the bodies will be as 
follows. Many resins will pass into the water in the form of 
sodium salts : 



IN THK ETHER : IN THE WATER : 

Hydrocarbons. Sodium salts. 

Mineral oils. Glycerol. 

Paraffin. Sodium hydroxid. 

Neutral resins. 

Coloring-matters from palm oil. 
Phytosterol. 
Cholesterol. 



ANALYTIC DATA. The data, commonly termed " con- 
stants," obtained by the processes described in the preceding 
pages, are subject to uncertainty, owing to the want of abso- 
lute standards. Fats and oils, especially the latter, being 
mixtures of several ingredients, will vary with conditions of 
growth of the animals or plants yielding them, methods of 
extracting and refining, exposure to light, heat, and air, and, 
doubtless, from unrecognized causes. Samples prepared in 
the laboratory do not necessarily serve as standards for com- 
mercial products. Errors of observation from defective ap- 
paratus, especially inaccurate thermometers, are by no means 
uncommon. 

The data for specific gravity and for melting and solidifying 
points given in the following tables have been compiled from 
the best accessible sources, and will give a general idea of the 
range of figures in commercial samples : 



FATS AND OILS 



16 7 



SPECIFIC GRAVITIES OF FATS AND OILS AND OF ACIDS 
DERIVED FROM THEM 

OILS. ACIDS. 

(15-5.) (loo*.) (iooP.) 

Olive, 0.914-0.918 0.875 

Cottonseed, 0.922-0.930 0.8725 0.882 

Maize, 0.916-0.926 0.8711 

Coconut 0.925 (at 18) 0.868-0.874 0.844 

Arachis, 0.916-0.922 0.847 

Sesame, 0.921-0.924 

Rape, 0.913-0.917 0.875-0.879 

Cacao-butter, 0.945-0.976 0.857 

Lard 0.931-0.938 0.859-0.864 0.837-0.840 

Tallow, 0.893-0.898 0.870 

Butter-fat, 0.926-0.940 0.909-0.914 

Coconut olein, 0.926 0.907 



MELTING AND SOLIDIFYING POINTS OF FATS AND OILS. 
MELTING-POINTS AND TITER-TESTS OF ACIDS 

The tiler-tests were determined by J. Lewkowitsch. 



OIL OR FAT. 



ACIDS. 



Melting- 
point. 

Olive 

Cottonseed 

Maize 

Coconut, 20 to 28 

Arachis, 

Sesame, 

Rape, 

Cacao-butter, . . . 30 to 34 

Lard 28 to 45 

Butter-fat, ... . 29 to 35 
Beef tallow, . . . . 36 to 49 
Mutton tallow, . . . 36 to 49 



Solidifying- 






point. 


Melting-point. 


Titer-te*t. 


4 to 2 


24 to 27 


16.9 to 26.4 


I to 10 


35 to 40 


32.2 to 37.6 


not above IO 


18 to 20 




14 to 23 


24 to 27 


21.2 to 25.2 


5 


28 to 33 


28.1 to 29.2 


4 to 6 


23 to 31 


21.2 to 23.8 


6 to 10 


l8 to 22 


II.7 to 13.6 


20 to 27 


48 to 52 


48.0 to 48.2 


27 to 44 


35 to.47 


41.4 to 42.0 


20 to 30 


36 to 46 (insol.) 




33 to 48 


43 t 47 


37.91046.2 


33 to 48 


46 to 54 


40.1 1048.3 



IODIN NUMBERS OF FATTY ACIDS 
OIL OR FAT. MIXED ACIDS. LIQUID ACIDS. 

Olive 86-90 

Cottonseed, 111-116 147 

Maize "3-125 140 

Arachis 95-103 128 

Sesame, 109-112 

Rape 99-105 

Coconut 8.5-9 54 

Cacao butter 32-5-39 

Butter-fat 28-31 

Lard, 64-81 104 



i68 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



Q 














t a 2<" 


M 


ON 


TJ- t^ ro 




ON 


ON 


ffiif 


f 


oo 

J. o 


fC J X 




<k 


J 


hH h ^a 


oo 


tx OO 


tx ON tx 






ON 






oo "^ 




CO 






cl 






vO 1 




N 00 

7 N 


VO 

00 


VO 
C1 


<> 




tN. 






n 




< j gj 


1 


t 


, , 


oo 





t 


"> 


rt 


rt "^ 


o3 fl3 


1 


CO 


C3 


yj 


S 


S oo 


6 S 


vo vo 


1 


1 


* 


w 


(fl 


tn tn 


tx ro 


N 


w 


U < 2* 







t^ * 










o\ 


^ vo 


CO T^- 








^ S D U 


i 


1 ,_, 


1 1 








ftt n 2 


ON 




vo \o 








<H 


00 


vO 


O M 








Mil? 


O 


^ ^ 


^ 




VO 


VO 


aswSj? 


vo 


ON 


00 




vo 


O 


<aa 

t- H 














. I _; 














pge| 


I 


I 


tX CO M 

vO vo ON 

f^x VO ^^ 








K Hn 




^ ^ 


TJ- \O vn 








<g 


ON 


rh 

ON 


t^ r^ ON 
ON ON tx 


OO M 

VO O 


ro 


ON 










N M 






z> 

2 Z 


1 


1 1 

00 


A i ' 

O tx vo 




t 4 


1 


oj P 


00 


ON oo 


ON oo tN. 


-t ON 


^ 


ON 


pi 

Z 4 


00 


HH CO 


O* 


vo ^ 


00 






00 


1 1 
M 


vo ' AN 


ON Y- 

00 M 




5 


55 




O 


oo O ON 


ro 


N 


5r 














































. 


^ 


. 


V 








. 


<u 





4-1 

*- s 


rt" 








n 


t/) r 


^ -9 


**r 






aT 

5 


| .^ 
'J 

U ^ 


^g | o 

5 s f 

< C/5 M 


% 6 

O rt 



O rt 
U U 


<u 
C 

3 

PQ 


1 



FATS AND OILS 169 

SPECIAL TESTS. Several tests are of value for recognizing 
particular oils or fats. The indications for their use will be 
given in connection with them. 

Carbon Disulfid-snlfur Test. Halphois Test. This is in- 
tended for the recognition of cottonseed oil. It is applicable 
both to oils and to the separated acids. The operation is as 
follows : 

Carbon disulfid containing about I per cent, of sulfur in 
solution is mixed with an equal volume of fusel oil. Equal 
volumes of this reagent and the sample (about 3 c.c. of each) 
are jnixed and heated in a bath of boiling brine for I 5 min- 
utes. If no red or orange tint is produced, I c.c. of the re- 
agent is added, and if after 5 or 10 minutes more heating no 
color is shown, a third addition of I c.c. may be made. It is 
possible to detect very small quantities of cottonseed oil by 
this test. Lard and lard oil derived from animals fed on cot- 
tonseed meal will often give a faint reaction. 

Silver Nitrate Test. Bechi's Test. This is a test for cotton- 
seed oil. Several modifications are in use. According to Del 
Torre, the following reagents are required : 

I. 

Silver nitrate, . . l.o gram. 

Alcohol, 98 per cent, (by vol.), 200.0 c.c. 

Ether, 40.0 c.c. 

Nitric acid, o. I gram. 

II. 

Fusel oil, loo.o c.c. 

Rapeseed oil, 15.0 c.c. 

10 c.c. of the oil to be examined are mixed in a test-tube 
with i c.c. of reagent I, and then shaken with 10 c.c. of re- 
agent II. The mixture is next divided into two equal por- 
tions, one of which is immersed in boiling water for 1 5 min- 
utes. The heated sample is then removed from the water- 
bath, and its color compared with the unheated half. Cotton- 



I/O FOOD ANALYSIS 

seed oil is indicated by the reddish-brown of the heated 
portion. Only the purest alcohol should be used, and the 
rapeseed oil used should be " cold drawn," and only slightly 
colored ; it should be filtered in a hot-water oven before pre- 
paring the reagent. To guard against errors from impurity 
of the reagents, a blank test should be made. 

It is stated that old and rancid samples will not react unless 
the rape oil be present. Most chemists, however, do not use 
it, especially in testing lard. O. Hehner uses reagent I, add- 
ing i volume to 2 volumes of oil and heating for 15 minutes. 
Milliau applies the silver solution (No. I) to the mixed fatty 
acids ; but experience has shown that in some cases, in which 
cottonseed oil was present and responded to the test, the fatty 
acids failed to give a similar reaction. After heating to 240 
or on long keeping, the oil or fatty acids fail to respond to 
the test. 

Furfural Test. Baudouin's Test. This is a test for sesame 
oil. In its original form, the sample was shaken with a mix- 
ture of sucrose and strong hydrochloric acid, when a crimson 
is produced if sesame oil be present. As furfural is a prod- 
uct of the action of hydrochloric acid on sucrose, and is the 
active agent in the test, Villavecchia and Fabris have substi- 
tuted an alcoholic solution of the latter for the sugar. The 
solution is made dilute (2 per cent.), as furfural itself gives a 
violet tint with hydrochloric acid. The modified test is 
applied in one or the other of the following forms : 

(tf) o. I c.c. of the 2 per cent, furfural solution is placed in 
a test-tube, 10 c.c. of the sample and 10 c.c. of hydrochloric 
acid (sp. gr. 1.19) added, the mixture shaken for half a min- 
ute, and allowed to settle. In the presence of even less than 
i per cent, of sesame oil, the aqueous layer will become 
crimson. In the absence of sesame oil the lower layer is 
either colorless or, at most, becomes, as in the case of very 
rancid though pure olive oil, dirty yellow. 



OLIVE OIL 171 

() O.I c.c. of the furfural solution is mixed with 10 c.c. of 
the sample and I c.c. only of hydrochloric acid added ; the 
mass shaken thoroughly and separation brought about by 
addition of 10 c.c. of chloroform, or by a centrifuge, when 
the aqueous layer will be crimson with even less than i per 
cent, of sesame oil. 



OLIVE OIL 

Olive oil is obtained from the fruit of the Olca curopiea L. 
Its color ranges from light yellow to golden yellow, but some 
forms are deep green from presence of chlorophyl. The quality 
of the oil depends on many conditions ; that intended for food 
is always expressed cold. 

Olive oil contains about 28 per cent, of solid fat, consisting 
of palmitin and a little arachidin. The remainder is mostly 
olein, with a little linolin. O. Hehner and C. A. Mitchell 
found no stearin. Appreciable amounts of cholesterol are 
present, differing from most vegetable oils, which contain 
phytosterol. The unsaponifiable matter ranges from I to 1.5 
per cent. Free fatty acid is always present, amounting in the 
best grades to about 1.5 per cent, and in the lowest grades 
to 25 per cent. 

Adulteration. Olive oil is very liable to adulteration. In 
this country, cottonseed oil and arachis oil are the additions 
most commonly employed. In many cases the article con- 
tains no olive oil, cottonseed oil or a mixture of cottonseed 
and arachis oil being substituted. Other adulterants are 
sesame, rape, poppyseed, and lard oil. Still more rarely, 
curcas oil, and even castor oil have been employed. It is 
stated that 15 or 20 per cent, of the latter may be present 
without affecting the taste. In the lower grades of oil, not 
intended for table use, any ordinary oil, including refined 
petroleum, may be present. 



172 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Specific Gravity. The specific gravity of olive oil usually 
ranges from 0.914 to 0.917, or even 0.918 in the case of 
California oils. Commercial, usually brown, oils, expressed 
at a high temperature, and containing a higher proportion of 
palmitin, may range as high as 0.925. A specific gravity of 
0.918 or over, in a sample of light color, would give rise to 
suspicion of adulteration with cottonseed, poppyseed, or 
sesame oil. 

Solidifying-point, Olive oil has usually a higher solidifying- 
point than any other of the vegetable oils. Mixtures of olive 
with other oils have, as a rule, a lower melting-point than 
either constituent alone. The melting and solidifying points 
of the mixed acids are also of some value, but, according to 
Dieterich, less than 25 per cent, of adulteration cannot be 
detected with certainty. 

Saponification Value. This determination is of use only in 
the case of adulteration with a considerable proportion of 
rape oil. 

lodin Number. This determination furnishes the most 
valuable indications of the purity of olive oil. The figure 
for pure oil usually ranges between 81.5 and 85 per cent. 
Values as high as 88.6 have been reported from some Cali- 
fornia oils, but such samples are exceptional, and a figure 
above 85 should give rise to suspicion of adulteration. 

Heat of Bromination. Specific Temperature Reaction. The 
thermal values of olive oil are lower than those of other vege- 
table oils and the determination is frequently of use. The 
following is a list of determinations adapted to detection of 
the particular adulterants noted : 

COTTONSEED OIL. Halphen's test ; nitric acid color test; 
Bechi's test ; iodin number ; Livache's test ; temperature re- 
actions ; viscosity of soap solution. 

ARACHIS OIL. Viscosity of soap solution ; determination 
of arachidic acid ; iodin number. 



OLIVE OIL 1/3 

RAPE OIL. lodin number ; melting and solidifying of 
acids ; acetic acid test ; refractive power. 

SESAME OIL. Furfural test (p. 170); iodin absorption; 
temperature reactions ; saponification value. 

LARD OIL. Melting-point of fatty acids ; odor of lard on 
warming. 

Seed Oils Generally. Separation of phytosterol. 

CASTOR OIL. Solubility in acetic acid in the cold ; solubil- 
ity in absolute alcohol ; specific gravity. 

CURCAS OIL. Iodin value ; saponification value ; treated 
with nitric acid and copper, intense reddish-brown is pro- 
duced in presence of even 10 per cent, of curcas oil. 

HYDROCARBON OILS. Determination of unsaponifiable mat- 
ter (p. 165). 

Green olive oil has been imitated by coloring other oils 
with copper acetate. All green oils should be tested for cop- 
per by boiling with hydrochloric acid and testing the acid 
solution, as described on p. 70. 

Elaidin Test. Olive oil yields the hardest elaidin of all the 
oils, and in the shortest time, but, as noted on page 1 56, too 
much reliance must not be placed upon the indications of 
this test. The following figures, obtained by Blasdale from 
California oils, serve to show the extent to which time re- 
quired to form a solid product may vary in even fresh sam- 
ples of known purity : 



VARIETY OF OIL RK <? UI " U) FOR 

\AKIETYOF UIL. ELAII>IN TEST. 

Uvaria, ................ 6 hours 

1'endulina, ................. 4 

Redding Peclioline .............. 3 " 

Nevadillo bianco ............... 2 " 

Manzanillo, ................ 30 minutes 



Refractive Power. The refractive power of olive oils is 
less than that of any other of the vegetable oils. The deter- 
mination of the refractive index gives reliable indications only 



FOOD ANALYSIS 

in the presence of a considerable proportion of the adul- 
terant. More satisfactory results are said to be obtained by 
the use of the oleorefractometer of Amagat and Jean, or 
of the Zeiss butyrorefractometer. Oliveri has determined 
the degree of refraction (in the oleorefractometer) of 106 pure 
olive oils, and compared the results with those from other 
oils, as follows : 

DEGREE OF REFRACTION. 

Olive oil o to 2 

Cottonseed oil, 18.0 

Sesame oil, I 5-5 

Colza oil, 26. 5 

Arachis oil, 7.5 

Poppyseed oil, 28.5 

Oliveri concludes from his figures that admixtures of not 
too small quantities of any of the above oils can be detected, 
as the degree of refraction would be above 2. Arachis oil 
might, however, easily escape detection. 

Nitric Acid Test. This will detect as little as 3 per cent, of 
cottonseed oil in olive oil. Some operators employ acid of 
1.41 specific gravity, but, according to J. Lewkowitsch, one 
of 1.375 gives better results. He recommends that the mix- 
ture be allowed to stand about 24 hours, when olive oil con- 
taining cottonseed oil becomes pure brown ; but if rape oil 
be present, the mixture becomes more yellowish. Attention 
has been called to the fact that some highly purified cotton- 
seed oils react so faintly with nitric acid that samples contain- 
ing as much as 10 per cent, showed no reaction. 

Halplien's Test. This is a characteristic test for detecting 
cottonseed oil, and is applicable to oils that have been heated 
for a short time to 240, also to the fatty acids. Oils that 
have been exposed for a long time to light and air may fail 
to respond to the test. 



COTTONSEED OIL 175 

COTTONSEED OIL 

Cottonseed oil is obtained from seeds of several species of 
Gossypium. The crude product is dark red. It is refined by 
treatment with alkali, by which some soap is formed that 
carries with it the coloring-matter. The refined oil is pale 
yellow, of pleasant flavor, and neutral, but becomes rancid 
gradually, when free acid is also formed and a so-called 
"stearin " deposited. The better grades of oil are sold after 
being freed from stearin by chilling or long standing. The 
refined oil is much used for cooking purposes and as a salad 
oil, but its chief uses are as an adulterant for olive oil, butter, 
lard, and lard oil, and in the manufacture of butter substitutes. 
It is so cheap that it is but little liable to adulteration, except 
possibly with mineral oils. 

Cottonseed oil contains stearin, palmitin, olein, and linolin. 
A small proportion of a hydroxy-ester is said to be present. 

Cottonseed Stearin. This is a commercial name of the solid 
fat deposited on standing or by cooling the oil and pressing. 
The product so obtained varies according to the completeness 
with which the oil has been separated. The proportion of 
true stearin appears to be very low. A sample examined by 
O. Hehner and C. A. Mitchell yielded only 3 per cent, of 
stearic acid. As ordinarily obtained the fat is light yellow 
and of the consistency of butter. It is largely used in the 
preparation of substitutes for butter and lard. 

Another variety of so-called cottonseed stearin is the solid 
portion of the fatty acids separated from the oil in the pro- 
cess of purification by alkali. It consists chiefly of stearic 
acid and is employed in soap-making. 

The following are some of the physical and chemical con- 
stants of the neutral fat first described : 



Specific gravity, jf = 0.923 = 0.864100.869 
Solidifying point, . 26 to 40 ; tiler test, 16. 
Saponification value, 194-195. 
lodin value, .... 89-104. 



FOOD ANALYSIS 

MIXED FATTY ACIDS. 

Solidifying-point, 35. 

Melting-point, 27 to 30. 

lodin number, 94. 

Cottonseed stearin responds to the color tests for cottonseed 
oil. 

MAIZE OIL CORN OIL 

Maize oil is obtained by expression from the seeds of the 
Zea mays L., either directly or after they have been used 
for the preparation of alcohol. The latter product contains 
much free acid. The most recent and extended investi- 
gation of this oil is that made by H. T. Vulte and H. W. 
Gibson. 2 l Data furnished by them, together with some from 
other sources, have been incorporated in the tables on pages 
167 and 1 68. The following additional figures are all from 
the paper of Vulte and Gibson : 

Index of refraction (Abbe refractometer) , . 1.4766 

Acid value, 2.25 

Free acid (percentage), 1. 12 

Insoluble acid, 92.2 

Elaidin test, Orange-yellow deposit. 

Bechi s test, Dark brown. 

Many esters are present, as the following acids have been 
obtained from the saponified material : Formic, acetic, stearic, 
palmitic, arachidic, hypogeic, oleic, linolic, ricinolic (probably), 
and, according to some investigators, caproic, caprylic, and 
capric. The results of different investigators do not agree in 
some points. O. Hehner and C. A. Mitchell were unable to 
find stearin in a sample examined by them. J. C. Smith found 
volatile acids equivalent to a Reichert number between 2 and 
3. C. G. Hopkins found no volatile acids in the sample exam- 
ined by him. 

The oil is practicably without drying power at the ordinary 
temperature. According to J. C. Smith, no decided siccative 



ARACHIS OIL 177 

properties are communicated to it by simply " boiling " or by 
the addition of litharge. On passing a current of air through 
it for an hour at a temperature of 150, it becomes slightly 
darker and rather more viscous, but not to the same extent as 
cottonseed oil. If to the oil so treated a small quantity of 
manganese borate be added, slight siccative properties are ac- 
quired, and a thin film on lead dries in from 10 to 20 hours, 
but not completely. C. G. Hopkins found that on heating the 
untreated oil in the water-oven, a small amount of oxygen 
was absorbed, the increase in weight amounting to about I 
per cent, at the end of 24 hours. 

The unsaponifiable matter was high in the samples exam- 
ined by Vulte and Gibson, the phytosterol being 1.4 percent, 
and lecithin about i.i per cent. 

The most characteristic reaction for the oil is due to the 
phytosterol. The oil is dissolved in carbon disulfid, a drop of 
strong sulfuric acid added, and the liquid allowed to stand 
for 24 hours. A fine violet coloration will be produced with 
maize oil. 

ARACHIS OIL 

.Arachis oil also called peanut, ground-nut, and earth-nut 
oil is obtained from the seed of the Arachis hyf>ogtea L. 
The cold expressed oil from the first runnings is nearly color- 
less, and that of the second expression usually of a pale 
greenish-yellow. It has an agreeable odor and flavor, but may 
be obtained nearly odorless and tasteless. It contains olein, 
palmitin, stearin, arachin, lignocerin, and probably hypogein. 
It is used as a salad oil. So-called "peanut butter" consists 
simply of the ground roasted nuts. The principal use of the oil 
is as an adulterant for olive oil. The specific gravity and chemi- 
cal constants of the two oils are so nearly alike that the detec- 
tion of the admixture by these data is hardly possible. The 
determination of the iodin value is occasionally of use, but 
16 



178 FOOD ANALYSIS 

the only reliable method is that of Renard, depending upon 
the estimation of the amount of arachidic acid, or, more 
properly speaking, of the arachidic and lignoceric acids, since 
later investigation has shown that the body separated and 
weighed as arachidic acid consists of both, lignoceric acid 
being in larger proportion. The method is laborious, and 
requires considerable care in its performance ; many shorter 
methods have been proposed, none of which are as satis- 
factory as the original method, which in its most improved 
form is described by L. Archbutt, as follows : 

10 grams of the oil are saponified in a deep porcelain 
basin, using 8 c.c. of aqueous sodium hydroxid solution (50 
grams in 100 c.c.) and 70 c.c. of rectified alcohol. The 
basin is covered, the mass gently evaporated to about 20 c.c., 
rinsed with hot water into a separating funnel, decomposed 
with HC1 in excess, and shaken with ether to dissolve the 
fatty acids. Two extractions with ether are sufficient. After 
washing the ethereal solution with water it is distilled in a 
250 c.c. flask, the fatty acids dried by heating the flask on a 
steam-bath and sucking out the vapor, and then dissolved in 
the hot flask in 50 c.c. of 90 per cent, alcohol. The solution 
must not be allowed to cool below about 38, lest crystals of 
lignoceric or arachidic acid should separate. 5 c.c. of a 20 
per cent, aqueous solution of lead acetate are added and the 
mixture cooled to about 15, shaken, allowed to stand for 
half an hour, washed only once with ether, the mass rinsed 
back into the flask with a spray of ether, and digested with 
ether for a short time ; then again filtered and again rinsed 
back. After doing this about four times, the lead oleate will 
be dissolved. 

The filter is opened in a large plain funnel placed in the 
neck of a separating funnel, and the soaps at once rinsed into 
the separator with a jet of ether. The material that adheres 
to the paper and flask is decomposed and transferred by rins- 



ARACHIS OIL 179 

ing with hot dilute hydrochloric acid, followed by ether. 
About 20 c.c. of hydrochloric acid (i.io sp. gr.) are poured 
into the separator, shaken well to decompose the lead soaps, 
the aqueous liquid drawn off, the ether repeatedly washed 
with small quantities of cold water until the lead chlorid is 
removed, distilled in a 250 c.c. flask, and the residual fatty 
acids thoroughly dried by heating on a steam-bath. 50 c.c. 
of ethyl alcohol of exactly 90 per cent, strength (sp. gr. 
0.834) are poured into the flask, which is then closed with 
a cork carrying a thermometer, heated cautiously until the 
fatty acids have completely dissolved, and cooled to 15, 
when lignoceric and arachidic acids, if present, will crystal- 
lize out, either at once or shortly. 

To estimate the amount, the flask should be kept for one 
hour, with occasional agitation, in a water-bath at either 15 
or 20, or at some intermediate fixed temperature which is 
nearest to that of the laboratory, the crystals collected on a 
small filter, using only the filtrate to rinse the flask, and 
washed with three portions of 10 c.c. each of 90 per cent, 
alcohol, at the same fixed temperature. A paper filter may 
be used, but a Gooch filter, used with gentle suction, is 
better, as the mother liquor is more j>eifectly removed and 
the washing more thorough. The filtrate and washings with 
90 per cent, alcohol are poured into a measuring cylinder, 
and the acids thoroughly washed with 70 per cent, alcohol, 
in which arachidic and lignoceric acids are quite insoluble, 
until some of the washings give no precipitate when diluted 
with water. These washings are thrown away. It is not 
absolutely necessary, but it is advisable to redissolve the fatty 
acids thus obtained in 50 c.c. of 90 per cent, alcohol, and 
recrystallize thorn, filtering and washing as before, adding the 
filtrate and washings with 90 per cent, alcohol to the first 
quantity in the measuring clyinder. Pure arachidic and lig- 
noceric acids are thus obtained, and are dissolved off the filter 



l8o FOOD ANALYSIS 

with boiling ether, distilled down, and weighed in a tared 
flask after drying at 100 for an hour. To the weight 
obtained is to be added the amount dissolved by the 90 per 
cent, alcohol, which is calculated from the following table, 
based on determinations made by Tortelli and Ruggeri, and 
confirmed by L. Archbutt. It will be noticed that the 
amount dissolved varies according to the weight of mixed 
acids obtained : 

WEIGHT OF ARACHIDIC AND CORRECTION PER 100 c.c. OF 90 PER CENT. 

LIGNOCERIC ACIDS ALCOHOL USED FOR CRYSTALLIZATION 

(Gram). AND WASHING (Gram). 



o.l or 

0.2 

o-3 
0.4 

0-5 
0.6 
0.7 
0.8 
0.9 an 


(15 C.) 
less o 071 


(17-5 C.) 
0.039 
0.056 
0.064 
0.070 
0.074 
0.077 
0.079 
0.080 
0.08 1 


(20 C.) 
0.046 
O.O64 
0.074 
O.080 
0.085 
0.088 
0.090 
O.09I 
0.091 


. 0.048 


. O.O";? 


0.061 


. 0.064. 


. 0.067 


. 0.060 


. O.O7O 


d upward, 0.071 



The proportion of arachidic and lignoceric acids which has 
been obtained by different observers from arachis oil is very 
fairly constant, averaging about 5 per cent., so that the amount 
of these acids found in any given mixture of oils, multiplied 
by 20, will give a close approximation to the amount of 
arachis oil present. 

SESAME OIL 

Sesame oil (also called Gingli and Teel oil) is obtained from 
the seeds of the Sesamum orientals L. and 5. indicnm L. 
The cold expressed oil is yellow and of pleasant taste. It 
consists of stearin, palmitin, olein, and linolin, with other bodies 
not clearly understood. 

Sesame oil has been used as a compulsory addition to 
butter-substitutes, in order to facilitate the detection of these. 
It is readily recognized by the furfural test (page 170). 
Another test, devised by Tocher, is as follows : 



RAPE OIL l8l 

1 5 c.c. of the oil are shaken in a separating bulb with a 
solution of i gram of pyrogallol in 1 5 c.c. of concentrated 
hydrochloric acid. The aqueous liquid is drawn off and 
boiled for about five minutes ; in the presence of sesame oil it 
becomes colored, appearing red by transmitted and blue by 
reflected light. 

Adulteration. Sesame oil is liable to adulteration, more 
especially with cottonseed, arachis, poppyseed, and rape oils. 
These may be detected as follows : 

Cottonseed oil. Halphen's, nitric acid, and Bechi's tests ; 
Livache's test ; melting-point of the fatty acids. 

Rape oil. Saponification value ; specific gravity ; solidifying 
and melting points of the fatty acids. 

Poppyseed oil. lodin value ; temperature reactions. 

Arachis oil. Specific gravity ; determination of arachidic 
acid. 

RAPE OIL 

Rape oil is obtained from several varieties of the Rrassica 
campestris L. The oils derived from all of these are, as a rule, 
described indiscriminately as rape oil or col/a oil ; but on the 
continent of Europe " colza oil " is sometimes taken to mean 
only that from a particular variety (napus). The physical and 
chemical characters of all the varieties appear to be practically 
identical. 

Rape oil is pale yellow, has a peculiar smell, and rather an 
unpleasant taste. It consists chiefly of stearin, olein, and 
erucin. It also contains a small proportion of arachidin. 
About 0.4 per cent, of arachidic acid is said to have been 
separated from it. It is very liable to adulteration, but is of 
interest here only as an adulterant of olive oil. The physical 
and chemical characters are given in the tables on pages 167 
and 168. 



1 82 FOOD ANALYSIS 

COCONUT OIL 

Coconut oil is obtained from kernels of the coconut, 
especially Cocos nucifera L. and C. bntyracea L., being usu- 
ally expressed with aid of heat. It is nearly white and about 
the consistency of butter ; has the taste and odor of the coco- 
nut. It contains palmitin and stearin, much myristin and 
laurin, with .some caprin, caproin, and caprylin. It gives, 
therefore, a notable amount of volatile acids and soluble acids. 
By treatment with alcohol and animal charcoal, a white neutral 
product of agreeable flavor and good keeping qualities is 
obtained, which is sold for food purposes under fanciful names, 
such as "vegetable butter," " vegetaline," " laureol," "nuco- 
line." By submitting the oil to pressure products termed 
"coconut olein " and "coconut stearin" are obtained. 
From samples of these, A. H. Allen has obtained the follow- 
ing data : 

SP. GR. (water at 15.5= i) SOLIDIFYING- MELTING- REICHKRT 

AT 15.5; AT 98-99. POINT. POINT. NUMBER. 

Olein, 0.926 0.871 4risingto8 5.6 

Stearin, solid 0.869 21.5 rising to 26 28.5 3.1 



CACAO-BUTTER 

Cacao-butter is the fat expressed from cacao beans. It is 
yellowish-white, becoming paler on keeping, possesses the 
pleasant odor and flavor of chocolate, is solid at ordinary 
temperatures, but easily melts in the mouth. It consists 
chiefly of stearin, palmitin, and laurin, with small proportions 
of arachidin, linolin, formin, acetin, and butyrin. It is insolu- 
ble in 90 per cent, alcohol, but dissolves in 5 parts of boiling 
absolute alcohol. 

Adulteration. The common adulterants of cacao-butter 
are tallow, stearic acid, lard, paraffin wax, beeswax, coconut, 
and arachis oils. The quantitative reactions will usually suffice 
for their detection. 



CACAO- BUTTER 183 

Stearic acid is indicated by the high acid value ; 

Paraffin or beeswax, by the low saponification value and 
high proportion of unsaponifiable matter; 

Vegetable oils, by the increased iodin value and lower 
melting-point of the fatty acids ; 

Coconut oil by the low iodin value, high saponification 
value, and moderately high Reichert number. 

The following special tests are also useful : 

Bjorkland's Test. 3 grams of the fat are mixed in a test- 
tube with 6 grams of ether, the test-tube closed with a cork, 
and solution effected, if possible by shaking. When wax 
is present, a cloudy liquid results which is not changed on 
warming. If the solution is clear, the tube is placed in 
melting ice and the time observed after which the solution 
begins to become milky or to deposit white flakes ; then 
the temperature is noted at which the mixture becomes clear 
on removing from the ice-water. Pure cacao-butter solution 
becomes cloudy in 10 or I 5 minutes, and becomes clear again 
at 19 to 20. With cacao-butter containing 5 per cent, of 
tallow, these figures are 8 minutes and 22 respectively ; 10 
per cent, of tallow, 7 minutes and 25. 

Filsinger suggests a modified ether test : 2 grams of the fat 
are melted in a graduated tube with 6 c.c. of .a mixture of 4 
volumes of ether (sp. gr. 0.725) and 2 volumes of alcohol 
(sp. gr. 0.810), shaken, and set aside. The pure fat gives a 
solution that remains clear, even on cooling to o. 

Hager recommends the following test : About I gram of 
the fat is warmed with 2 to 8 grams of anilin until dissolved ; 
the mixture is allowed to stand one hour at 15 or one and a 
half hours at 17 to 20. Pure cacao-butter floats as a liquid 
layer on the anilin. If the sample contain tallow, stearic acid, 
or a little paraffin, particles, which remain hanging on the 
upper wall on gentle agitation, are formed in the oily layer. 
If wax or much paraffin be present, the layer solidifies. If 



184 FOOD ANALYSIS 

much stearic acid be present, layers will not form, but the 
whole will solidify to a crystalline mass. The oily layer from 
pure cacao-butter hardens only after many hours. A parallel 
test should be made with a sample of known purity. 



LARD 

Strictly speaking, lard is the fat obtained from the mem- 
branes about the kidneys and intestines of the common hog. 
Commercial lard consists of the mixed fat from various parts 
of the animal. The following classification of American lard 
is given by H. W. Wiley : 

Neutral Lard. Fats derived from the leaf in a fresh state. 
The fat is rendered at a temperature between 40 and 50. 
Only a part of the lard is separated at this temperature. The 
product is almost neutral, containing not more than 0.25 
per cent, free acid, but it may contain much water and some 
salt. 

Leaf Lard. The residue unrendered in the above process 
is subjected to steam heat under pressure. 

Choice Kef tie-rendered Lard. Choice Lard. Portions of the 
leaf, together with the fat cut from the backs, are rendered in 
steam-jacketed open kettles. The hide is removed from the 
back-fat before rendering. 

Prime Steam Lard. The whole head of the hog, after the 
removal of the jowl, is used for rendering. The fat from the 
small intestines and fat attached to the heart are also used. 
The back-fat and trimmings and the leaf may also be used. 
Prime steam lard, therefore, may represent the fat of the whole 
animal, or only portions. 

A lower grade is made from intestines. The definition of 
the term as used by hog-packers is : everything inside of a 
hog except the lungs and the heart, or, in other words, the ab- 
dominal viscera complete. 



LARD 185 

Lard consists of stearin, palmitin, and olein, with a small 
amount of linolin. O. Hehner and C. A. Mitchell obtained 
stearic acid in proportions varying from 6 to 16 per cent. It 
contains but a small amount of unsaponifiable matter ; Allen 
and Thomson found 0.23 per cent. 

American and European lards differ appreciably in some 
analytic characters, as exhibited in the following table : 

SP.GR.-. 

15 lODIN NUMBKR. 

American Lards: 

From head, 0.8632 65.9 

" back, 0.8616 63.8 

" leaf, 0.8626 61.4 

European Lards: 

From back, 0.8607 6-5 

" kidney, 0.8590 52.6 

" leaf, 0.8588 53.1 

More marked differences in the iodin value of fat from dif- 
ferent parts of the animal have been noted by other observers. 

Fresh lard usually contains little free acid, generally from 
O.I to 0.4 per cent., but the proportion may rise above I per 
cent. On exposure to the air the amount increases consider- 
ably. Spaeth has made a number of determinations of free 
acid of samples kept in loosely -corked flasks. The following 
is a summary of the results obtained : 

FRESH. i YEAH OLD. 3 YEARS OLD. 

Free acid calculated as oleic, 0.01310 0.45 0.51(0 6.05 2.8(014.2 
Iodin number, . ...... 63.2 1051.7 554 1036.7 41.1(021.5 

Adulteration. I^rd is much adulterated, especially with 
cottonseed oil, cottonseed-stearin, beef-stearin, and excess of 
water. Articles containing no lard have often been sold 
under the name " refined lard." More recently such prep- 
arations have been designated "lard compound" or "com- 
pound lard." Maize, sesame, and arachis oils may be present 
in these articles. Much attention has been given to the exam- 



1 86 FOOD ANALYSIS 

ination of commercial lards, and the following is a summary 
of the more trustworthy of the methods. A comparison of 
constants will be found on pages 167 and 168. 

Specific Gravity, The specific gravity of lard is usually be- 
tween 0.860 and 0.861. The usual adulterants, except beef- 
stearin, tend to raise the specific gravity, but they may be 
corrected by addition of vegetable oils. J. H. Wainwright 
obtained valuable data by compressing the sample in muslin 
or linen at ordinary temperatures and examining the more 
fluid portion. 

Melting-point. This datum is usually of little value. A. 
Goske obtained some useful results by applying the titer-test 
(p. 20). Pure lards gave figures ranging from 23 to 30 ; 
lard adulterated with tallow and lard oil, from 29.7 to 36. 
The solidifying-point of the fatty acids may be of value in 
detecting maize oil. 

lodin Number. This differs considerably according to the 
part of the animal from which the sample is derived. The 
following table has been compiled from the results of many 
observers : 

AMERICAN LARDS. 

Head, 63. to 85 ; average, 75. 

Foot, 63. to 77 ; average, 70. 

Ham, 66. 1069; average, 67.8. 

Back, 61.51066.7; average, 64. 1. 

Leaf, 52.5 to 66.7; average, 59.6. 

Intestines, 60. 

English lards may give figures 6 or 8 units lower. 

American steam-lard derived from different parts of the 
animal has an iodin value of about 59 to 66, but the effect of 
age on this must not be forgotten (see page 185). As a 
rule, the iodin value of mixtures of lard, beef-stearin, and 
lard oil is well within these limits, so that a normal iodin 
value is not proof of purity. The addition of vegetable oils 
raises the figure notably, but, according to J. Lewkowitsch, 



LARD 187 

the iodin value of the liquid fatty acids is the best method of 
detecting admixture of vegetable fats. With American lard, 
the figure is between 97 and 106; and with European lards, 
between 90 and 96. Should a sample give a value within the 
above limits, it must be further examined for beef-stearin and 
coconut oil, since these may be added with a vegetable oil to 
bring the figure within the limits of normal lard. 

Thermal Test. The rise of temperature with sulfuric acid, 
and more especially the heat of bromination, is of service 
in the detection of cottonseed products. The results with 
Maumene's test, as reported, differ greatly. It is advisable 
to perform tests with samples of pure lard and cottonseed 
oil side by side with the suspected sample. The initial tem- 
perature may be about 35 or 40. Care should be taken 
that the sample contains no water. 

Refractometric Examination. The examination of lard by 
the oleorefractometer or the butyrorefractometer is of value. 
Vegetable oils are readily detected, but the indications in 
the case of beef tallow and .stearin are not so satisfactory. 
According to F. Jean, better results are obtained by operating 
on the liquid fatty acids. The following table is compiled 
from the results of Jean, Dupont, and other observers. The 
liquid fatty acids may be prepared as described on page 144. 
Jean, whose figures are given in the table, prepares them by 
Srar's process : 50 grams of the lard are saponified, the 
fatty acids separated by addition of acid, washed with hot 
water, and mixed in a flask together with 250 c.c. of carbon 
disulfid and 8 to 10 grams of x.inc oxid. The zinc salts of 
the liquid fatty acids dissolve in the carbon disulfid, and can 
thus be separated from the solid fatty acids. The carbon 
disulfid is evaporated, the fatty acids liberated with hydro- 
chloric acid, well washed with hot water, and dried at a tem- 
perature of 1 20. 



i88 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



DEGREES IN OLBOREFRACTOMETER. 
Fa , 



American lard, mixed, .............. 7 

' leaf, .............. 11.5 

" ' foot, back, head, etc., ........ 4 to n 

European ' ................ 12 to 13 30 

" ' stearin, .............. 10 to n 

Beef tallow .................. 16 to 17 40 

" stearin .................. 34 

Veal " .................. 19 

Coconut oil, ................. 54 

Cottonseed oil, ...... . .......... -j- 12 to -|- 23 

usually -f 20 4- 10 

" stearin, ............... + 2 5 +20 

Arachis oil, .................. -(- 3.5 to -f 7 15 

Sesame " .................. -j- 13 to + 18 18 

European lard with 20 per cent, cottonseed oil, ... 6 

10 " stearin, . 7 

30 " " . 3 

50 +i 

20 sesame oil, ..... 20 

20 arachis "..... 8 23 

50 beef tallow, .... 14 33 

40 ; beef fat, 40 ; cottonseed oil, 20 per 
cent., ................. 24 

European lard 60 ; mutton tallow, 25 ; arachis oil, 15 

per cent. , ..... .......... 13 22 

European steam lard, 60; beef tallow, 15 ; arachis oil, 

25 per cent., ................ 8 

SPECIAL TESTS. 

Seed Oils (cottonseed, sesame, arachis, and maize) ; iodin 
number of the liquid fatty acids. These are further specifically 
identified as follows : 

Cottonseed Oil. Lard from animals fed liberally on cotton- 
seed products may give faint reactions for cottonseed oil by 
the qualitative tests. Halphen's test is the most satisfactory. 
The nitric acid and Bechi's tests may also be applied. Pure lard 
that has been exposed to the air may respond to Bechi's test, 
so that the sample should be carefully taken from the interior 
of the mass. On the other hand, cottonseed oil that has been 
heated for a short time to 240 no longer responds to this 
test, and reacts to Halphen's test with diminished intensity. 



LARD 189 

B. W. Jones suggested sulfur chlorid as a test for cottonseed 
oil, which forms with it a hard mass partly insoluble in carbon 
disulfid. J. Lewkowitsch has found the method useful, and 
applies it as follows : 5 grams of the fat are dissolved in 2 c.c. 
of carbon disulfid, 2 c.c. of sulfur chlorid are added, and the 
mixture heated on the water-bath. The following results were 
obtained with mixtures of lard and cottonseed oil : 

COTTONSEED OIL PER- SOLUBILITY OK PRODUCT 

CENTAGR. IN CARBON Disci Ml>. 

None No reaction. Completely soluble. 

IO Thickens after 35 minutes. 



20 "30 

30 " "26 

40 " " 18 

50 Solid after 10 minutes. 



60 
70 
80 
90 
100 



52.0 per cent, soluble. 
39.6 " 
34-8 

37.4 per cent, soluble. 
30.6 " " 

32.6 " 

30.0 " " 

24.0 " " 



It is recommended to test the sample side by side with pure 
lard, or with mixtures of known composition. 

Cottonseed Stearin. For the detection of this the above 
tests for cottonseed oil should be applied, also specific gravity 
determination. 

Arachic Oil. Renard's test should be applied (page 178). 

Sesame Oil. Baudouin's test should be applied (page 170). 

Maize Oil. In the absence of other seed oils, the melting- 
point of the mixed fatty acids is of use. 

Coconut Oil. The iodin number, saponification value, and 
Reichert number are useful data. 

Tallow. Beef-stearin. Belfield proposed to use the follow- 
ing : The sample is dissolved in warm ether and the solution 
is cooled slowly and the crystals deposited arq examined under 
the microscope. Crystallization should take place as slowly 
as possible. A good method is to place a cotton plug in the 
mouth of the tube, and allow the ether to evaporate slowly. 



I9O FOOD ANALYSIS 

The crystals from pure lard are usually in the form of plates 
with oblique terminals. 

C. B. Cochran 2 2 finds the following method satisfactory : 
2 c.c. of the melted fat are mixed with 22 c.c. of fusel oil 
and the mixture warmed to about blood heat, and when com- 
plete solution is effected it is allowed to cool slowly to 16 or 
17 and maintained at this temperature for several hours, dur- 
ing which a crystalline deposit forms. This is transferred to 
a filter, the fusel oil drained off as far as possible, and a part 
or whole of the residue dissolved in ether in a test-tube, the 
mouth of .the tube being plugged with cotton. The crystals 
which form on standing may be mounted in cottonseed oil 
and examined under the microscope. 

The proportion of beef-stearin present may be approxi- 
mately estimated by W. F. K. Stock's modification of Bel- 
field's test. It consists in comparing the crystals obtained 
from an ethereal solution with those from two standard sets 
of mixtures, the first consisting of pure lard melting at 34 to 
35, with 5, 10, 15, and 20 per cent, of beef-stearin melting 
at 56; the second of pure lard, of melting-point of 39 to 
40, with 5, 10, 15, and 20 per cent, of beef-stearin melting 
at 50. The process is as follows : The melting-point of the 
sample is determined by the capillary tube method. Suppose 
the melting-point be found at 34, 3 c.c. of the melted fat are 
run into a graduated cylinder of about 25 c.c. capacity; 21 
c.c. of ether are added, and the fat dissolved at 20 to 25 ; 3 
c.c. of each of the first set of mixtures are treated in exactly 
the same way. The five cylinders are cooled down to 13, 
and allowed to remain at that temperature for 24 hours. An 
approximate estimate as to the amount of the adulterant is 
arrived at by reading off the apparent volume of the deposited 
crystals. The ether is then poured off as far as possible, and 
10 c.c. of fresh ether at 13 are added in each case. The cyl- 
inders are again shaken, cooled as before, and the proportion 



BUTTER-FAT 1 9! 

of crystals read off as before. Finally, the contents are 
emptied into weighed shallow beakers, the ether drained off 
carefully, the mass allowed to dry for i 5 minutes at ioo,and 
weighed. The weight obtained for the sample under exami- 
nation is compared with the weight of the crystals obtained 
from the standard nearest to it. The second set of mixtures 
is used for samples of higher melting-point. The actual 
presence of beef-fat must be proved by microscopic examina- 
tion, when the characteristic tufts are seen. No sample of 
pure lard melting below 39 yielded more thano.oii gram 
of crystals under the above conditions. A sample of the 
melting-point 45.8 gave, however, o. I46gram ofcrystajs. - 

Beef-fat crystallizing from ether forms spherical masses, 
which when pressed under a cover-glass become fan-shaped 
tufts. Under high magnification the individual crystals still 
appear in needle-like form quite distinct from the plates pro- 
duced by lard. In samples of lard containing beef-fat the 
crystals obtained are not a mixture of those typical of the 
two substances, but usually uniform and resemble those of 
lard somewhat modified. In some cases the manner of 
aggregation is similar to that of beef-fat crystals, but the 
individual crystals, instead of being needle-shaped, have more 
the apper.rance of those from lard. It will often be necessary 
to recrystallize repeatedly under varying conditions, to get 
characteristic crystals. 



BUTTER-FAT 

The fat of cow's milk is the only one of importance, and 
this is only known commercially in the form of butter, a 
mixture of the fat with varying proportions of water, salt, curd, 
coloring-matter, sometimes boric acid, and other fats. For 
methods of analysis and distinction of butter-fat from other 
fats, see under " Milk Products." 



192 FOOD ANALYSIS 

MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 

Milk, the nutritive secretion of nursing mammals, consists 
of water, fat, proteids, sugar, and mineral matters. Cow's 
milk is meant in all cases, unless otherwise stated. 

The chemistry of milk formation is not entirely understood. 

Fat. This occurs in globules varying from 0.0015 mm. to 
0.005 mm - m diameter, in a condition which prevents spon- 
taneous coalescence. This property has been regarded as 
indicating a surrounding membrane, but may be explained 
without such an assumption. 

According to V. Storch, each globule of milk is coated with 
a membrane of mucoid substance. These membranes or semi- 
fluid envelopes are retained when the fat globules are washed 
free from milk serum ; they may be stained and seen under 
the microscope. 

The fat of milk is peculiar among animal fats in containing 
a notable proportion of acid radicles with a small number of 
carbon atoms. 

Proteids. The nature of the proteids of milk has been much 
discussed, but it is now generally conceded that there are at 
least three forms, casein, albumin, and globulin, the casein 
being present in by far the greatest amount, and the globulin as 
traces only. V. Storch found a fourth proteid, which he re- 
gards as an envelope surrounding the fat globules, but H. D. 
Richmond, while confirming the existence of this body, doubts 
that it is connected with the fat. 

CASEIN. Casein is, in part, at least, probably in combination 
with phosphates. It is precipitated by acids, rennet, magnesium 
sulfate, and many other substances. Acids precipitate it by 
breaking up the combination with phosphates. The action of 
rennet is more complex. Hammersten's investigations indicate 
that it is dependent upon the presence of calcium salts ; thus, 
if the curd precipitated by dilute acid be dissolved in dilute 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 193 

alkali and the solution neutralized, it is unaffected by rennet, 
but regains its coagulability by the addition of a solution of a 
calcium salt or, what amounts to the same thing, a little of the 
whey from which the casein was precipitated. It appears that 
rennet splits the casein into two proteids, one of which is 
precipitated in the curd. 

The results of some experiments made by Hardach indicate 
that the coagulation of milk on heating is due to the alteration 
of the casein into such a state that it can be precipitated by the 
small amount of acid derived from the lactose, which is other- 
wise incapable of affecting it. 

Films of proteid matter occur abundantly in milk, for which 
reason it is distinctly opaque, even when all but a trace of the 
fat has been removed by centrifugal action. 

The albumin of milk appears to be a distinct form, and is 
called lactalbumin. It is not precipitated by dilute acids, but 
is coagulated by heating to 7O-75. The proportion in 
cow's milk is usually from 0.35 to 0.50 per cent., but colos- 
trum may contain much larger proportions. 

Globulin is present only in minute amounts in normal milk, 
but colostrum may contain as much as 8 per cent. It is 
coagulated on heating. 

Lactcse. This is peculiar to milk. Richmond discovered 
in the milk of the gamoose a sugar not identical with lactose. 

Citric acid is a normal constituent of the milk of various 
animals. In human milk, the quantity is about 0.5 gram to 
the liter; in cow's milk, from I to 1.5 grams. It is not de- 
pendent on the citric acid present in the food. 

Minute amounts of nitrogenous bases and a starch -liquefying 
enzym also occur. 

Mineral Matter. The ash of milk contains calcium, mag- 
nesium, iron, potassium, and sodium as chlorids, carbonates, 
sulfates, and phosphates. It does not correctly represent tbe 
salts present in milk. On ignition of the organic salts, car- 



194 FOOD ANALYSIS 

bonates are formed, which in turn are decomposed by the 
phosphoric acid formed by the oxidation of the phosphorus 
of the casein. 

H. D. Richmond has determined the ratio of the ash to the 
solids not fat of 135 samples of milk. This was found to 
range from 7.8 to 9.4 per cent., but more usually from 7.8 to 
8.5 (average 8.2) per cent. A considerable proportion were 
found to be alkaline to turmeric, litmus, and phenolphthalein, 
the maximum alkalinity being 0.025 per cent., calculated as 
sodium carbonate. 

The following table gives the general composition of some 
milks. Analyses of the milk of less important animals have 
been published, but the figures are of uncertain value, because 
it is not sure that the samples were of average character or the 
methods of analysis accurate : 

HUMAN. Cow. MARE. GOAT. Ass. GAMOOSE. 



Fat, 


. "?"? 


4-O 


1. 1 


4-3 


1.6 


5-6 


Sugar, 
Proteids, . . . 
Ash, 


. . . 6.8 
. . . 1.8 
. . . O.2 


4.8 

3-5 
0.7 


6.7 
1.9 

O. j 


4.0 
4.6 

0.6 


6.1 

2.2 
0.5 


5-4 
3-8 

I.O 

















12. 1 13.0 10.0 13.5 IQ-4 15.8 

Normal milk is an opaque white or yellowish-white fluid, 
with an odor recalling that of the animal, and a faint sweet 
taste. The opacity is due largely to the fat globules, but when 
these are entirely removed the liquid does not become trans- 
parent. The reaction of freshly drawn milk to litmus is 
usually alkaline, but is sometimes amphoteric ; that is, it turns 
the red paper blue and the blue paper red. The specific 
gravity varies between 1.028 and 1.035. I* usually undergoes 
a gradual augmentation (sometimes termed Recknagel's phe- 
nomenon) for a considerable time after the sample has been 
drawn. The increase may amount to two units (water being 
1 .000). The specific gravity becomes stationary in about 5 
hours if the milk be maintained at a temperature below 15, 



M1I.K AND MILK PRODUCTS 195 

but at a higher temperature it may require 24 hours to acquire 
constancy. The change is not dependent on the escape of 
gases, and is believed to be due to some molecular modifica- 
tion of the casein, possibly under the influence of an enzym. 

Unless collected with special care and under conditions of 
extreme cleanliness, milk always contains bacteria and animal 
matter of an offensive character, such as epithelium, blood and 
pus cells, particles of feces, and soil. 

At ordinary temperature milk soon undergoes decomposition, 
by which the milk-sugar is converted principally into lactic acid, 
and the proteids partly decomposed and partly coagulated. 
The liquid becomes sour and the fat is inclosed in the coagu- 
lated casein. 

In the initial stages of decomposition the proteids frequently 
undergo transformations into substances which are the cause 
of the violent poisonous effects occasionally produced by ice- 
cream and other articles of food into the preparation of which 
milk enters. 

Boiling produces coagulation of the albumin, some caramel- 
ization of the sugar, and develops a greater facility of coales- 
cence on the part of the fat globules. Enzyms and most 
microbes are destroyed. The skin which forms on the 
surface of boiling milk is composed largely of casein. It 
is due probably to the more rapid evaporation at the surface 
of the liquid. 

When milk is allowed to stand, some of the fat rises 
gradually and forms a rich layer, constituting cream. The 
proportion of cream depends on several conditions. The 
amount formed in a given time cannot be taken as a measure 
of the richness of the milk. Water added to milk causes a 
more rapid separation of the cream. 

When milk is subjected to centrifugal action, a larger pro- 
portion of cream is quickly obtained, nearly all of the fat being 



196 FOOD ANALYSIS 

removed. The following figures, given by D'Hout as 
averages, show the effect of the centrifugal action : 

WHOLE MILK. SEPARATED MILK. CREAM. 

Specific gravity, . . . 1032 1034 1015 

Total solids 14.10 9.6 26.98 

Sugar, 4.70 5.05 3.32 

Casein, 3.50 3.62 2.02 

Ash 0.79 0.78 0.58 

Fat 5.05 0.20 2I -95 

Buttermilk is the residue after removal of the butter by 
churning. P. Vieth gives the following analyses : 

TOTAL SOLIDS. FAT. SOLIDS NOT FAT. ASH. 

9.03 0.63 8.40 0.70 

8.02 0.65 7.37 1.29 

10.70 0.54 10. 16 0.82 

The whey left after the precipitation of the curd by rennet 
or acid still contains a notable amount of proteids. The 
following analyses are by C. B. Cochran : 

MILK. WHEY. 

Total solids. Solids not fat. Total solids. Proteids removed. 

9.27 9.13 6.62 2.51 

9.27 9.13 6.1 3.03 

14.05 8.35 6.62 2.33 

7.71 7.61 5.98 1.63 

8.91 8.71 6.50 2.21 

The whey of any given milk has the same composition, 
whether taken from the original milk, skimmed milk, or cream. 

Average Proportion of Solids in Milk. The most extensive 
data on this point are those obtained by P. Vieth. The total 
number of samples was 120,540. The averages of the entire 
series are as follows : 

Fat, 4. 1 per cent 

Non-fatty solids, . . . 8.8 " 

Total solids 129 " 

H. t). Richmond's results for several years have confirmed 
these figures. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 197 

Seasonal Variations in the Composition of Milk. Victh's 
results show that poorest quality occurs during the first half 
of the year, especially in April. A low figure is also fre- 
quently noted about July. In autumn the quality rises, being 
highest in October and November. 

Deficient Solids. The following are some instances of 
deficiency of solids in milk known to be genuine : 

TOTAL 
SP. GR. FAT. S. N. K. SOLIDS. ANALYST. 



1029.6 3.38 7.35 H-33 C. B. Cochran 

1030.0 3.62 8.31 H-93 C. N- Cochran 

1029.3 3- 6 3 8 - 02 II - 6 S C. B. Cochran 

. . . 3.99 8.36 12.35 I.erTmann and Iteam 

. . . 3.11 8.33 U-44) Monthly Averages 

. . . 3.05 8.33 11.38 V N.J. State Agricul- 

. . . 3.23 8.44 11-67] tural Exp. Station. 



The following analyses of milk from individual cows were 
made by C. B. Cochran. The samples were taken under pre- 
cautions which insured their genuineness. The data are all 
direct determinations. The total solids were obtained by 
drying in the usual manner, and the fat by the L-B. method. 
Low milks have been often noted in the vicinity of Phila- 
delphia. . 

SP. GR. FAT. S. N. F. TOTAL SOLIDS. 

1026.6 2.35 6.78 9.13 

IO28.8 2.95 7.56 10.51 

1028.8 2.40 7.56 9.96 

1033.5 2 -9 8 - 68 ll. $8 

* 

In a herd of 60 cows, H. D. Richmond found 19 per cent, 
of the samples to contain between 8.38 and 8.50 per cent, 
solids not fat. From an examination of the records of 
analyses made in the laboratory of the Aylesbury Dairy 
Company for many years past Richmond finds that the milks 
believed to be genuine which contained less than 8.3 per cent, 
of solids not fat numbered 59 per 100,000; and those with 
less than 8.1 per cent., 10 per 100,000. Such results are 



198 FOOD ANALYSIS 

only obtained with milk of individual cows. The mixed milk 
from a herd of any considerable number will rarely, if ever, 
show a proportion of non-fatty solids less than 8.5 per cent, 
nor less than 3.5 per cent, of fat. Cochran examined the 
milk from each cow of a herd of 59, with the following 
results : 

Fat, 2. 60 to 5.40 

Total solids, 9.8610 13.78 

The average milk of the entire herd was : 

Fat, 3. 76 per cent. 

Total solids 12.33 per cent. 

The average of nearly 100 determinations at the University 
of Wisconsin creamery during a protracted drought in 1895 
gave but a trifle over 8.5 per cent, solids not fat. The casein 
was low in this milk, while the sugar was about normal in 
amount. Similar conditions have been observed by L. L. 
Van Slyke at the New York Station. 

Colostrum. This is the secretion in the early stages of 
lactation, and differs from ordinary milk. It contains char- 
acteristic structures, known as colostrum corpuscles, and 
usually contains much less fat than fully developed milk, but 
a larger proportion of proteids. Colostrum coagulates on 
boiling. Lactose is in small amount. 

Analytic Processes. 

As already noted, the specific gravity of milk rises 
gradually for some time after it has been drawn, and the 
determination is to be made only after this action has ceased. 
This will require about 5 hours after the milk is drawn, if it 
has been kept below 15, but at a higher temperature it 
will be necessary to allow at least 12 hours. For all other 
determinations the milk must be analyzed as soon as possible. 
The following figures, published by Bevan, show that a con- 
siderable loss in total solids may occur in 24 hours : 



MILK AND MILK PKODUCTS 199 

TOTAL SOLIDS. Loss. 

Kvaporated immediately, n .73 

Evajx>rated after 24 hours, 1O-79 0.94 

Evaporated after 48 hours, 10.38 1.35 

Evaporated after 1 20 hours, 9.42 2.31 

The decomposition is very irregular, and it is not possible 
to determine, by estimation of the lactic acid or other 
products, the original composition of the milk. The pipet 
used for taking a portion for analysis should have a wide 
opening, that no cream may be retained when the pipet is dis- 
charged. 

When rigid accuracy is not essential, it will suffice to 
measure the portion of milk taken for the determinations. 
P. Vieth uses a pipet graduated to deliver 5 grams, and finds 
that, working with whole and skimmed milk, under the 
ordinary variations of temperature, the error will not exceed 
o. i on the total solids and is less on the fat. 

A good plan is to use a 5 c.c. pipet and to wash out that 
which adheres to the glass with a little water. The specific 
gravity of the milk being known, the amount taken can be 
calculated. The milk shoulll be as near 15.5 as possible. 

Specific Gravity. Air-bubbles are held rather tenaciously 
by milk, and care must be taken in mixing, preparatory to 
taking the specific gravity, to avoid as far as possible the in- 
closure of air, and to allow sufficient time for the escape of 
any bubbles that may be present. The specific gravity of 
milk is understood to be taken at 15.5 ; samples should be 
brought near to this. If at a few degrees above or below, it 
will suffice to make the determination at once and obtain the 
correct figure by reference to the annexed table. The spe- 
cific gravity of normal milk varies between 1.028 and 1.035. 
The figure alone does not indicate the character of the sample, 
but taken in conjunction with the figure for fat or for total 
solids, it is of value as a check on the results furnished by 
other determinations. 



200 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



The simplest method of determining specific gravity is by 
the lactodensimeter, a delicate and accurately graduated hydro- 
meter. The instrument must be immersed carefully so as not 
to wet the stem above the point at which it will rest. The 
instrument should be tested by immersion in distilled water 
at 15.5 and milks of known specific gravity. 

The indications furnished by the lactodensimeter are suffi- 
ciently accurate for most purposes, but its employment neces- 
sitates a considerable amount of the sample. 



Find the temperature of the niilk in one of the horizontal lines and the specific 
gravity in the first vertical column. In the same line with this and the tempera- 
ture the corrected specific gravity is given. 



F. 


So 


51 


52 


53 


54 


55 


56 


57 


58 


59 


60 


61 


62 


SP. 
GR. 
21 


2O. 2 


20.3 


20.3 


20.4 


20.5 


20.6 


20.7 


20.8 


20.9 


20.9 


21. 


21. 1 


21.2 


22 


21.2 


21.3 


21.3 


21.4 


21-5 


21.6 


21.7 


21.8 


21.9 


21.9 


22.0 


22.1 


22.2 


23 


22.2 


22.3 


22.3 


22.4 


22.5 


22.6 


22.7 


22.8 


22.8 


22.9 


23.0 


23.1 


23.2 


24 


23.2 


23-3 


23-3 


23-4 


23-5 


23.6 


23.6 


23-7 


23-8 


23-9 


24.0 


24.1 


24.2 


25 


24.1 


24.2 


24-3 


24.4 


24-5 


24.6 


24.6 


24.7 


24.8 


24-9 


25.O 


25-1 


25.2 


26 


25-1 


25.2 


25.2 


25-3 


25-4 


25-5 


25.6 


25-7 


25-8 


25-9 


26.O 


26.1 


26.2 


27 


26,1 


26.2 


26.2 


26.3 


26.4 


26.5 


26.6 


26.7 


26.8 


26.9 


27.0 


27.1 


27-3 


28 


27.0 


27.1 


27.2 


27-3 


27.4 


27-5 


27.6 


27.7 


27.8 


27.9 


28.0 


28.1 


28.3 


29 


28.0 


28.1 


28.2 


28.3 


28.4 


28.5 


28.6 


28.7 


28.8 


28.9 


29.0 


29.1 


29.3 


30 


29.O 


29.1 


29.1 


29.2 


29-3 


29.4 


29.6 


29.7 


29.8 


29.9 


30.0 


30.1 


30-3 


31 


29-9 


30.0 


30-1 


30.2 


3-3 


30.4 


30-5 


30.6 


30.8 


30-9 


31.0 


31.2 


31-3 


32 


30.9 


31.0 


3i-i 


31-2 


31-3 


31-4 


3-5 


31.6 


31-7 


31-9 


32.O 


32.2 


32.3 


33 


31-8 


3i-9 


32.0 


32.1 


32.3 


3 2 -4 


32-5 


32.6 


32.7 


32.9 


33-o 


33-2 


33-3 


34 


32.7 


32.9 


33-o 


33-i 


33-2 


33-3 


33-5 


33-6 


33-7 


33-9 


34-0 


34-2 


34-3 


35 


33-6 


33-8 


33-9 


34-0 


34-2 


34-3 


34-5 


34-6 


34-7 


34-9 


35- 


35-2 


35-3 


C. 


10 


10.5 


ii. i 


n.6 


12.2 


12.7 


13-3 


13-8 


14.4 


15.0 


15-5 


16.1 


16.6 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



201 



More accurate determination can be made by the methods 
detailed in the introductory part (page 41), the most suitable 
being the Sprengel tube. According to H. D. Richmond, the 
pyknometer is less suitable for rigidly accurate work, on ac- 
count of the tendency of the cream to separate before the 
mass has acquired the standard temperature. 

Total Solids. This determination may often be made 
with sufficient accuracy for practical purposes by evaporating 
a measured volume (t. g., 3 or 5 c.c.) in a shallow nickel 



63 


64 


65 


66 


67 


68 


69 


70 


_1 


72 


73 


74 


75 


21. 3 


21.4 


21.5 


21.6 


21.7 


21.8 


22.0 


22.1 


22.2 


22.3 


22.4 


22.5 


22.6 


22. 3 


22.4 


22-5 


22.6 


22.7 


22.8 


23.0 


23' 


2j.2 


23-3 


23-4 


23-5 


23-7 


23-3 


234 


23-5 


23.6 


23-7 


23-8 


24.0 


24 I 


24.2 


24-3 


24-4 


24.6 


24.7 


24-3 


24-4 


24-5 


24.6 


24.7 


24.9 


25.0 25.1 


25-2 25.3 


25-5 


25.6 


25-7 


25-3 


25-4 


25-5 


2 5 .6 


25-7 


25.9 26.0 


26.1 


26.2 


26.4 


26.5 


26.6 


26.8 


26. 3 


26.5 


26.6 


26.7 


26.8 


27.0 


27.1 


27.2 


27-3 


27-4 


27-5 


27.7 


2 7 .8 


27-4 


27-5 


27.6 


27-7 


27.8 


28.0 


28.1 


28.2 


28.3 


28.4 


28.6 


28.7 


28.9 


28.4 


28. 5 


28.6 


28.7 


28.8 


29.0 


29.1 


29.2 


29.4 


29-5 


29.7 


29.8 


29-9 


29-4 


29-5 


29.6 


29.8 


29.9 


30.1 30.2 


3-3 


30-4 


30.5 


37 


3-9 


3'-o 


30-4 


30-5 


3-7 


30-8 


30-9 


3I.I 31.2 


3i-3 


3' 5 


31-6 


31-8 


31-9 


32-1 


3-4 


3' 5 


31-7 


31-8 


32.0 


32.2 32.2 


32-4 


ja 5 


32.6 


32-8 


33-o 


33 i 


32-5 


32.6 


32-7 


32-9 


33-o 


33- 2 4 33- 3 


33-4 


33-6 


33-7 


339 


34-0 


34-2 


33-5 


336 


33-8 


33-9 


34-o 


34-2 34-3 


34-5 


34-6 


34-7 


34-9 


35-1 


35-2 


34-5 


34-6 


348 


34-9 


35-o 


352 35-3 


35-5 


35-6 


35-8 


36.0 


36.1 


36-3 


35-5 


35-6 


35-8 


35-9 


36-1 


36.2 36.4 


36-5 


36.7 


36.8 


370 


37-2 


37-3 


17-2 


17-7 


18.3 


18.8 


19.4 


20 


^^^^M 

20.5 


21.1 


21.6 


22.2 


22.7 


23-3 


23-8 



18 



2O2 FOOD ANALYSIS 

dish from 5 to 8 cm. in diameter. Nickel crucible-covers are 
suitable. When greater accuracy is required, and especially 
when the ash is to be determined, platinum dishes must be 
used. Satisfactory results may be secured by the following 
simple method: A flat platinum dish, 3.5 cm. in diameter, 
with sides 0.5 cm. high, is provided with a thin flat watch- 
glass cover that fits rather closely. The total weight of the 
cover and dish is noted. 2 or 3 c.c. of the sample are run 
into the dish from the pipet, the watch-glass placed on, and 
the weight taken as rapidly as possible. The glass prevents 
appreciable loss from evaporation during an ordinary weighing. 
The cover is removed, the dish heated on the water-bath or 
in the water-oven, and weighed from time to time (with cover 
on it) until the weight is sensibly constant. The percentage 
of residue can be easily calculated. About three hours may 
be required to secure constant weight. 

The following are the methods adopted by the A. O. A. C. : 

1. Heat to constant weight at the temperature of boiling 
water from I to 2 grams of milk in a tared flat dish of not less 
than 5 cm. diameter. If desired, from 15 to 20 grams of 
pure dry sand may be previously placed in the dish. 

2. Babcock Asbestos Method. Provide a hollow cylinder of 
perforated sheet metal 60 mm. long and 20 mm. in diameter, 
closed 5 mm. from one end by a disk of the same material. 
The perforations should be about 0.7 mm. in diameter and 0.7 
mm. apart. Fill the cylinder loosely with from 1.5 to 2.5 
grams of freshly ignited woolly asbestos free from fine or brittle 
material. Cool in a desiccator and weigh. Introduce a 
weighed quantity of milk (about 4 grams) and dry at 100 to 
constant weight. The residue may be employed for the 
determination of the fat. 

Ash. The residue from the determination of total solids is 
heated cautiously over the Bunsen burner, until a white ash 
is left. The result obtained in this manner is apt to be slightly 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 2O3 

low from loss of sodium chlorid. This may be avoided by 
heating the residue sufficiently to char it, extracting the sol- 
uble matter with a few cubic centimeters of water, and filtering 
(using paper extracted with hydrofluoric acid). The filter is 
added to the residue, the whole ashed, the filtrate then added, 
and the liquid evaporated carefully to dryness. The ash of 
normal milk is about 0.7 per cent, and faintly alkaline. A 
marked degree of alkalinity and effervescence with hydro- 
chloric acid will suggest the addition of a carbonate. 

The method of the A. O. A. C. is as follows : In a 
weighed dish put 20 c.c. of milk from a weighing bottle ; add 
6 c.c. of nitric acid, evaporate to dryness, and burn at a low 
red heat till the ash is free from carbon. 

Fat. Many methods for fat determination have been 
devised. The following will suffice for all practical work : 

Adams' Mctliod. This consists essentially in spreading the 
milk over absorbent paper, drying, and extracting the fat in an 
extraction apparatus ; the milk is distributed in an extremely 
thin layer, and by a selective action of the paper the larger 
portion of the fat is left on the surface. A paper, manufac- 
tured especially for this purpose by Schleicher & Schuell, is 
obtainable in strips of suitable size. ICach of these yields to 
ether only from o.ooi to O.OO2 gram of extract. 

The procedure recommended by the A. O. A. C. is as fol- 
lows : 

Coils made of thick filter-paper, cut into strips 6.25 by 
62.5 cm., are thoroughly extracted with ether and alcohol, 
or the weight of the extract corrected by a constant obtained 
for the paper. From a weighing bottle about 5 grams of the 
milk are transferred to the coil by means of a pipet, care 
being taken to keep dry the end of the coil held in the 
fingers. The coil is placed, dry end down, on a piece of 
glass and dried at the temperature of boiling water for one 
hour, preferably in an atmosphere of hydrogen ; it is then 



2O4 FOOD ANALYSIS 

transferred to an extraction apparatus and extracted with ab- 
solute ether or petroleum spirit of boiling-point about 45. 
The extracted fat is dried in hydrogen and weighed. 

The above procedure is very satisfactory, but the drying 
in hydrogen may usually be omitted. After the coil has 
received at least ten or twelve washings, the flask is detached, 
the ether removed by distillation, and the fat dried by heating 
in an air-oven at about 105, and occasionally blowing air 
through the flask. After cooling, the flask is wiped with a 
piece of silk, allowed to stand ten minutes, and weighed. 

H. D. Richmond states that to perform a rigidly accurate 
determination attention to the following points is necessary : 
The ether must be anhydrous (drying over calcium chlorid 
and distilling is sufficient). Schleicher & Schuell's fat-free 
papers should be used, and one should be extracted without 
any milk on it, as a tare for the others. Four or five hours' 
extraction is necessary, and the coils should be well dried 
before extraction is begun. 

Thimble-shaped cases made of fat-free paper are now 
obtainable and are convenient for holding the absorbent 
material on w.hich the milk is spread. The fine texture pre- 
vents undissolved matter escaping. A case may be used 
repeatedly. Sour milk must be thinned with ammonium 
hydroxid before taking the portion for analysis. 

Babcoctts extraction method is also recommended by the 

A. O. A. C. The cylinder containing the residue fronj the 

determination of total solids (page 202) is placed in the 

extraction tube and extracted with ether in the usual way. 

The ether is evaporated and the fat weighed, or the extracted 

cylinder may be dried at 100 and the fat determined by the 

loss in weight. As before, a higher degree of accuracy is 

secured by performing the drying operation in hydrogen. 

Werner- Schmid Method. This is suitable for sour milk. 

loc.c. of the milk are measured into a long test-tube of 50 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



205 



c.c. capacity, and 10 c.c. of strong hydrochloric acid added, 
or the milk may be weighed in a small beaker and washed 
into the tube with the acid. After mixing, the liquid is boiled 
I y<i minutes, or the tube may be corked and heated in the 
water-bath from 5 to 10 minutes, until the liquid turns dark 
brown. It must not be allowed to turn black. The tube 
and contents are cooled in water, 30 c.c. of well-washed ether 
added, shaken, and allowed to stand until the line of acid and 
ether is distinct. The cork is taken out, 
and a double-tube arrangement, like that 
of the ordinary wash-bottle, inserted. The 
stopper of this should be of cork and not 
of rubber, since it is difficult to slide the 
glass tube in rubber, and there is a possi- 
bility, also, of the ether acting on the 
rubber and dissolving it. The lower end 
of the exit-tube is adjusted so as to rest 
immediately above the junction of the 
two liquids. The ethereal solution of the 
fat is then blown out and received in a 
weighed flask. Two more portions of 
ether, 10 c.c. each, are shaken with the 
acid liquid, blown out, and added to the 
first. The ether is then distilled off and FIG. 45. 

the fat dried and weighed as above. 

Centrifugal Mettiods. Among the processes for the rapid 
determination of fat, those employing centrifugal action have 
been found most convenient. The following method, devised 
by H. Lefifmann and W. Beam in 1889, has proved satisfac- 
tory on the score of accuracy, simplicity, and ease of manipu- 
lation. The distinctive feature is the use of fusel oil, the 
effect of which is to produce a greater difference in surface 
tension between the fat and the liquid in which it is sus- 
pended, and thus promote its readier separation. This effect 



2O6 FOOD ANALYSIS 

has been found to be heightened by the presence of a small 
amount of hydrochloric acid. 

The test-bottles have a capacity of about 30 c.c. and are 
provided with a graduated neck, each division of which repre- 
sents o. i per cent, by weight of butter fat. 

15 c.c. of the milk are measured into the bottle, 3 c.c. of a 
mixture of equal parts of amyl alcohol and strong hydro- 
chloric acid added, mixed, the bottle filled nearly to the neck 
with concentrated sulfuric acid, and the liquids mixed by 
holding the bottle by the neck and giving it a gyratory mo- 
tion. The neck is now filled to about the zero point with a 
mixture of sulfuric acid and water prepared at the time. It 
is then placed in the centrifugal machine, which is so arranged 
that when at rest the bottles are in a vertical position. If 
only one test is to be made, the equilibrium of the machine is 
maintained by means of a test-bottle, or bottles, filled with a 
mixture of equal parts of sulfuric acid and water. After rota- 
tion for from one to two minutes, the fat will collect in the 
neck of the bottle and the percentage may be read off. It is 
convenient to use a pair of dividers in making the reading. 
The legs of these are placed at the upper and lower limits 
respectively of the fat, allowance being made for the menis- 
cus ; one leg is then placed at the zero point and the reading 
made with the other. Experience by analysts in various 
parts of the world has shown that with properly graduated 
bottles the results are reliable. As a rule, they do not differ 
more than o. I of I per cent, from those obtained by the 
Adams process, and are generally even closer. 

For accurate work, the factor for correcting the reading on 
each of the bottles should be determined by comparison with 
the figures obtained by the Adams or other standard process. 

Cream is to be diluted to exactly ten times its volume, 
the specific gravity taken, and the liquid treated as a milk. 
Since in the graduation of the test-bottles a specific gravity 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 2O7 

of 1.030 is assumed, the reading must be increased in pro- 
portion. 

A more accurate result may be obtained by weighing in the 
test-bottle about 2 c.c. of the cream and diluting to about 
15 c.c. The reading obtained is to be multiplied by 1545 
and divided by the weight in grams of cream taken. 

The mixture of fusel oil and hydrochloric acid seems to be- 
come less satisfactory when long kept. It is best, therefore, 
not to make up large amounts at once. The mixture should 
be clear and not very dark in color. It is best kept in a bottle 
provided with a pipet which can be filled to the mark by 
dipping. Rigid accuracy in the measurement is not needed. 

Calculation Methods. Several investigators have proposed 
formulae by which when any two of the data, specific gravity, 
fat, and total solids, are known, the third can be calculated. 
These vary according to the method of analysis employed. 
That of O. Hehner and H. D. Richmond, as corrected by 
Richmond, was deduced from results by the Adams method 
of fat extraction, and has beeu found to be the most satisfactory. 
It is as follows : 

7 = 0.25 G -f 1.2 F-f 0.14; 

in which Tis the total solids, G the last two figures of the 
specific gravity (water being 1000), and /" the fat. A table 
based upon this formula is annexed (p. 208). 

A formula has been devised by Richmond by which the 
lactose and proteids may be calculated (approximately), the 
specific gravity, fat, total solids, and ash being known. Thus : 

P = 2.8 T + 2.5 A - 3.33 F 0.7 -g- 

in which P is the proteids, Tthe total solids, A the ash, /"the 
fat, D specific gravity (water at 15.5 being taken as i), and 
G 1000 D looo. 23 



208 



FOOD ANALYSIS 





ON 


: 


& 


o 


I? 


?T 


T- 


1O 


NO t^ ON O x 


PJ Tf to 




* 


M 


PI 


ro 


fO 


PO 


ro 


PO 


*** *** ^ "* * 


Tj- t rr 




OO 


X* 

NO 


oo 


"8N 





? 


8 





PO 10 00 Q PO 

vo vO r^. ON O 


to 00. O 




* 


Pi 


p 


N 


ro 


PO 


PO 


ro 


? T JT ^ "*" 


* Tj- Tj- 




f- 


In 


NO 


R. 


ON 


PO 


NO 


00 


x ro NO OO x 


o 5 'S % 




* 


PI 


N 


p< 


PI 


PO 


PO 


PO 


ro ro ro PO ro 


* *t Tj- 




NO 


5- 





8 


R 


ON 


"J 


x 1 


p? 5- 5; ^ 


SN ? < S 




* 


PI 


PI 




p< 


PJ 


I? 


i? 


22222 


? 2" x* 




io 

4 


PJ 


PI 


N 


N 


PJ 


PJ 


ro 


ro ro r^ S ^ 






* 





ft 


4 


E 


VO" 


0? 


PI 


o* -* ft 4 Io 


NO S SN 




4 


N 


PI 


PI 


p< 


PJ 


PJ 


PJ 








CO 





x 1 


ft 


PO 

Tj- 


IO 

>o 


OO 

NO 


eg 


ro to OO O **) 


to oo O 




TJ- 


PI 


PI 


P4 


Pl 


PJ 


PJ 


PJ 


PJ ro ro ro ro 


ro PO ro 




PJ 


PO 

ON 


S 


oo 


X 


PO 


NO 


s 


W 8 x ro 


5 




~ 


M 


N 


N 


M 


N 


PJ 


PJ 


M X i? "* "^ 


ro ro ro 




x 


oo 


SN 


"o 


ON 


ro 


$ 





ON x Tj- NO ON 
NO 00 ON O x 


Jo ? 'Si 




* 


x 


w 


N 


PJ 


PJ 


PJ 


p 


PI PJ PJ ro ro 


ro ro ro 




O 


NO 


oo 


a 





x 


fo 


5 


g w s; o" 


? ro ? 


jj 


"* 





w 


2 


PJ 


N 


N 


PJ 


X X X X "* 


ro ro ro 


Ex, 


ON 





R 


w 


ON 


O 


X 


PO 


r? J^ NO" 00 0? 


t> O PJ 
O PJ ro 




ro 


2 


w 


JJ 


M 


N 


PJ 


PJ 


PJ PJ PJ PJ PJ 


ro ro ro 




00 


VO 


oo 


o 





ON* 


o 

PJ 


PJ 


ro to t~- O ro 
N PJ PJ PJ PJ 


to oo O 
PJ PO ro 




^ 


ro 


NO 


oo 


, 


0? 


8 


< 


X PO to OO x 


ro vo 00 

OO ON O 




CO 


2 


M 


2 


1-1 


x 


~ 


PJ 


x x N x x 


P* PI ro 




NO 


PI 


s 


NO 


S5 


rL 


PO 


^ 


ON x ro vO O 
O PJ ro TJ- ui 


3 * 




rO 





M 


2 


M 


M 


- 


- 


x x x N N 


N PJ PJ 




ro 


S 1 


a 


PO 


5 


SJ 


g. 


c? 


ON O PJ PO Th 


to r>. oo 




* 

PO 


t>. 

ON 



o 




p 
PI 


X 


| 


a 


s. 


*O t" ON PJ *O 
OO ON O PI PO 


tx PI 

T(- NO t^ 




s 


oo 




< 

o 





d 








NO" 


l^ 00 ON x PJ 


ro ^5- S 




N 


r~. 

O 


00 



'ON 

O 


M 


j? 


PO 


^ 


NO f- OO ON x 


PJ PO Tj- 
PJ PJ PJ 




_ 


X 


TJ- 


NO 


^ 


M 


ro 


VO 


? S E'$ 8 


** T^ NO 




PO 


O 





o 





JJ 


** 


- 


- X - X X 


PJ PJ PI 




O 


ON 





t^ 


oo 


s 


" 


pt 


Ix Ov N ^ 1^ 

ro Tf NO 1^ 00 


ON N * 

ON x PJ 




PO 








o 








JJ 





X X X X X 


x PJ P) 




i: 


o 


to 


o 


VO 


o 


to 


o 


to O o O o 


i/-i O 


C 
C 


1 

5 


PJ 





OO 
N 





ON 
PJ 


O 





O x O N O 


3 d 4 
o 

M 



MILK AM) MILK PRODUCTS 2OQ 

The difference between the total solids and the fat, proteids, 
and ash gives the lactose. In this formula it has been assumed 
that everything that is not fat, proteids, nor ash is milk-sugar ; 
an assumption which is not strictly correct, and which intro- 
duces a small error. Another error is introduced by the fact 
that the ash in milk is not the same as the salts existing in the 
milk. The errors between the proteids and lactose found and 
calculated vary between 0.4. 

Total Proteids. For practical purposes the total pro- 
teids are best estimated by calculation from the total nitrogen 
obtained by the Kjeldahl-Gunning method. Milk contains, 
however, a sensible proportion of non-proteid nitrogen. Ac- 
cording to Munk, this may range, in cows' milk, from 0.022 
to 0.034 per cent., and from 0.014 to 0.026 per cent, in 
human milk. According to these figures, the average pro- 
teid nitrogen in cows' milk would be 94 per cent., and in 
human milk 91 per cent., of the total nitrogen. 

The determination of total nitrogen as recommended by 
the A. O. A. C. is to place, in the digestion flask a known 
weight (about 5 grams) of the sample and proceed, without 
evaporation, as described on page 44. The factor used to 
convert nitrogen to proteids is 6.25. 

Ritthaitsen Method. This method depends on precipitation 
by copper sulfate and sodium hydroxid. It is applicable 
only to fully developed milks ; the proteids of colostrum and 
whey are only partially precipitated. The reagents are given 
on page 1 1 6. 

10 grams of milk are placed in a beaker, diluted with 
100 c.c. of distilled water, 5 c.c. of copper sulfate solution 
added, and thoroughly mixed. The sodium hydroxid solu- 
tion is then added drop by drop, with constant stirring, 
until the precipitate settles quickly and the liquid is neutral, 
or at most very feebly acid. An excess of alkali will prevent 
the precipitation of some of the proteids. 



2IO FOOD ANALYSIS 

The reaction should be tested on a drop of the clear liquid, 
withdrawing it by means of a rod, taking care not to include 
any solid particles. When the operation is correctly per- 
formed, the precipitate, which includes the fat, settles quickly, 
and carries down all of the copper. It is washed by decanta- 
tion with about 100 c.c. of water, and collected on a filter 
(previously dried at 130 and weighed in a weighing bottle). 
The portions adhering to the sides of the beaker are dis- 
lodged with the aid of a rubber-tipped rod. The contents of 
the filter are washed with water until 250 c.c. are collected, 
which are mixed and reserved for the determination of the 
sugar as described below. The water in the precipitate is 
removed by washing once with strong alcohol, and the fat by 
six or eight washings with ether. An extraction apparatus 
may be used for this purpose. The washings being received 
in a weighed flask, the determination of the fat may be made 
by evaporating the ether, with the usual precautions. 

The residue on the filter, which consists of the proteids in 
association with copper hydroxid, is washed with absolute 
alcohol, which renders it more granular, and then dried at 
130 in the air-bath. It is weighed in a weighing bottle, 
transferred to a porcelain crucible, incinerated, and the resi- 
due again weighed. The weight of the filter and contents, 
less that of the filter and residue after ignition, gives the 
weight of the proteids. The results by this method are 
slightly high, since copper hydroxid does not become com- 
pletely converted into copper oxid at 130. 

Casein and Albumin. The most accurate separation of 
casein and albumin is made by Sebelein's method, as follows : 
20 c.c. of the sample are mixed with 40 c.c. of a saturated 
solution of magnesium sulfate and powered magnesium sul- 
fate stirred in until no more will dissolve. The precipitate 
of casein and fat, including the trace of globulin, is allowed to 
settle, filtered, and washed several times with a saturated 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 211 

solution of magnesium sulfate. The filtrate and washings 
are saved for the determination of albumin. The filter and 
contents are transferred to a flask and the nitrogen deter- 
mined by the method described above. The nitrogen so 
found, multiplied by 6.38, gives the casein. 

The filtrate and washings from the determination of casein 
are mixed, the albumin precipitated by A/men's tannin reagent, 
filtered, and the nitrogen in the precipitate determined as 
above. The same factor is used. 

Almcn's reagent is prepared by dissolving 4 grams of tan- 
nin -in 190 c.c. of 50 per cent, alcohol and adding 8 c.c. of 
acetic acid of 25 per cent. 

H. D. Richmond and L. K. Boseley have modified the Ritt- 
hausen process by diluting the milk to 200 c.c., adding a little 
phenolphthalein, and neutralizing any acidity by the cautious 
addition of dilute sodium hydroxid solution, then adding from 
2.0 to 2.5 c.c. of the copper sulfate solution. The precipitate 
is allowed to settle, washed, and estimated as above. 

This modification was found to give good results with all 
milk products except whey, which contains albumoses pro- 
duced by the action of rennet. In a mixture of milk and 
whey in about equal parts, Richmond and Boseley found about 
0.3 per cent, of albumoses not precipitated by the copper sul- 
fate nor by magnesium sulfate, but precipitable, along with the 
albumin, by a solution of tannin. The separation may be 
effected by diluting the filtrate from the magnesium sulfate 
precipitation, acidifying slightly with acetic acid, and boiling, 
when the albumin will be coagulated and precipitated. The 
albumoses may be separated by filtering the solution and pre- 
cipitating with tannin solution. The precipitated proteids are 
best estimated by determining the nitrogen in the moist pre- 
cipitate. The separation of the proteids may be effected, though 
less accurately, by the use of acetic acid, as recommended by 



212 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Hoppe-Seyler and Ritthausen. The following methods have 
been provisionally adopted by the A. O. A. C. : 

i. Provisional Method for the Determination of Casein in 
Cows' Milk. The determination should be made when the 
milk is fresh. When it is not practicable to make the deter- 
mination within 24 hours, add one part of formaldehyde to 
2500 parts of milk and keep in a cool place. 10 grams of the 
sample are diluted with about 90 c.c. of water at between 40 
and 42 and 1.5 c.c. of a solution containing 10 per cent, of 
acetic acid by weight, allowed to stand for five minutes, 
washed three times by decantation, pouring the washings 
through a filter, and the precipitate transferred completely to 
the filter. If the filtrate is not clear at first, it will generally 
become so in two or three filtrations, after which the washing 
can be completed. The nitrogen in the washed precipitate 
and filter is determined by the Kjeldahl-Gunning method. 
The nitrogen, multiplied by 6.25, gives the casein. 

In working with milk which has been kept with preserva- 
tives, the acetic acid should be added in small portions, a few 
drops at a time with stirring, and the addition continued until 
the liquid above the precipitate becomes clear or nearly so. 

2. Provision a! Method for the Determination of Albumin in 
J///. The filtrate obtained in the above operation is neutral- 
ized with sodium hydroxid, 0.3 c.c. of the 10 per cent, solu- 
tion of acetic acid added, and the mixture heated for 15 
minutes. The precipitate is collected on a filter, washed, and 
the nitrogen determined. 

We have found the following method satisfactory, avoiding 
the difficulty of washing the precipitate : 10 c.c. of the milk 
are mixed with saturated magnesium sulfate solution and the 
powdered salt added to saturation. The mixture is washed 
into a graduated measure with a small amount of the saturated 
solution, made up to 100 c.c. with the same solution, mixed, 
and allowed to stand until the separation takes place. As 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 213 

much as possible of the clear portion is drawn off with a pipet 
and passed through a dry filter. An aliquot portion of the 
filtrate is taken, the albumin precipitated by a solution of 
tannin, and the nitrogen in the precipitate determined as 
above. 

The casein is found by subtracting the figure for albumin 
from that for total proteids. 

Lactose. Soxhlet's method, adopted by the A. O. A. C., 
is as follows: 25 c.c. of the sample in a 500 c.c. flask are 
diluted with 400 c.c. of water and 10 c.c. of copper sulfate 
solution (34.639 grams crystallized copper sulfate in 500 c.c.) 
and 8.8 c.c. ^ sodium hydroxid solution added. (The mix- 
ture should still have an acid reaction and contain copper in 
solution. If this is not the case, the experiment must be 
repeated, using a little less of the alkali.) The flask is filled 
to the mark with water, shaken, and the liquid passed through 
a dry filter. 50 c.c. of the mixed copper reagent (page 1 16) 
are heated to brisk boiling in a 300 c.c. beaker, 100 c.c. of 
the filtrate obtained as above added, and boiling continued for 
six minutes ; the liquid then promptly filtered, and treated ac- 
cording to methods given on pages 120 to 122. The amount 
of lactose is calculated from the copper obtained by the table 
on page 214. The figures for weights of copper between any 
two data given in the table may be calculated with sufficient 
accuracy for practical purposes by allowing 0.0008 gram of 
lactose for each o.ooi gram of copper. 

Lactose may be determined by the polarimeter after re- 
moval of the fat and proteids, which is best effected, as recom - 
mended by H. W. Wiley, by a mercuric nitrate solution, pre- 
pared by dissolving mercury in twice its weight of nitric acid 
of 1.42 sp gr. and adding to the solution five volumes of 
water. 

60 c.c. of the milk are placed in a 100 c.c. flask and IO c.c. 
of the mercuric solution added. The flask is filled to the 



214 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



mark with water, well shaken, and the liquid filtered through 
a dry filter. The filtrate, which will be perfectly clear, may 
be examined at once in the polarimeter. Several readings 
should be made and the average taken. 



COPPER. 


LACTOSE. 


COPPER. 


LACTOSE. 


COPPER. 


LACTOSE. 


o. 100 0.072 


0.205 


0.151 


0.305 


0.228 


0.105 


0-075 


0.210 


0.154 


0.310 


0.232 


O.IIO 


0.079 0.215 


0.158 


o-35 


0.236 


0.115 0.0.83 o. 220 


0.162 


0.320 


0.240 


O.I 2O 


o 086 0.225 


0.165 


0-325 


0.244 


0.125 


0.090 0.230 


0.169 


0.330 


0.248 


0.130 


0.094 


0.235 


0.173 


0-335 


0.252 


-'35 


0.097 


O.24O 


0.177 


0.340 


0.256 


0.140 


O.IOI 


0.245 


0.181 


0-345 


0.260 


0.145 


0.105 


O.25O 


0.185 


o.35o 


0.264 


0.150 


o. 109 


0-255 


0.189 


0-355 


0.268 


o.iSS 


0. 112 


0.260 


0.192 


0.360 


0.272 


o. 160 


o. 116 


0.265 


0.196 


0.365 


0.276 


0.165 


0.120 


0.270 


0.200 


0.370 


0.280 


0.170 


0.124 


0.275 


0.204 


0-375 


0.285 


0.175 


0.128 


O.28O 


0.208 


0.380 


0.289 


0.180 


0.132 


0.285 


0.212 


0.385 


0.293 


0.185 


0.134 


0.290 


0.216 


0.390 


0.298 


0.190 


O.I3 9 


0.295 


0.221 


0-395 


0.302 


0.195 


O.I4I 


0.300 


8.224 


0.400 


0.306 


0.200 


0.147 











It is to be noted that the actual volume of the sugar-con- 
taining solution is 100 c.c., less the space occupied by the 
precipitated proteids and fat. The volume of fat is found by 
multiplying the weight in grams by 1.075 an< ^ the proteids by 
multiplying the weight by O.8. 

P. Vieth recommends adding mercuric solution in the pro- 
portion of 3 c.c. to 100 c.c. of the milk, when the whey will oc- 
cupy the same volume as the original milk, less that of the 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 215 

fat, since, for all practical purposes, 3 c.c. may be taken as 
the volume of the albuminoids precipitated. 

The employment of a factor for correcting for the volume 
of precipitate may be avoided by Scheibler's method of" double 
dilution" (see page 30). in which two solutions of different 
volume are compared. The following is a summary of the 
method given by H. W. Wiley and E. K. Ewell 24 : The polari- 
meter used in this experiment was adapted to a normal weight 
of 26.048 sucrose, and 32.91 grams of lactose in 100 c.c. gave 
a reading of 100. The amount of milk taken was double this 
quantity, 65.82 grams, which were placed in a looc.c. flask, 10 
c.c. of the acid mercuric nitrate added, the flask filled to the mark 
the contents well mixed, filtered, and polarized. A similar quan- 
tity of the milk was placed in a 200 c.c. flask and treated in 
the same way. The true polarization is obtained by dividing 
the product of the readings in the two flasks by their difference. 
The following experiments are given by Wiley and Kwell : 

READING IN aoo READING IN too APPARKNT PKRCENT- TRUE PERCKNT- 
c.c. FI.ASK. c.c. FLASK. AGE LACTOSE. AGE LACTOSE. 

10.15 20.84 5-21 4-95 

The polarimeter used had a tube 4 decimeters long. The 
figure for apparent percentage is obtained by dividing the 
reading of the small flask by 4. The true percentage is 
obtained by multiplying 10.15 by 20.84, dividing by their 
difference (10.69), and taking one-fourth this quotient. 

Unless the instrument be highly accurate, and great care be 
taken in the work, the results are less satisfactory than by the 
method first described, in which an allowance is made for the 
volume of the precipitate. 

Birotation. When freshly dissolved in cold water, milk 
sugar shows a higher rotation than that given above. By 
standing, or immediately on boiling, the rotatory power falls 
to the point mentioned. In preparing solutions from the solid 
milk-sugar, care must be taken to bring them to the boiling- 



2l6 FOOD ANALYSIS 

point previous to making up a definite volume. This pre- 
caution is unnecessary when operating upon milk. 

Adulterations. The addition of water to milk is usually 
detected by the diminution in the amount of solids. 

The addition of water decreases the specific gravity, while 
abstraction of fat increases it. 

P. Vieth has pointed out that in normal milks the ratio 
sugar : proteids : ash =13:9:2 exists, and a determination 
of these ratios may aid in the attempt to distinguish genuine 
but abnormal milks from watered milks. In the case of a 
watered milk the proportion would remain unchanged, but in 
abnormal milk it has been found to vary. H. D. Richmond 
finds that " the most constant figure in normal milks is the 
proportion of ash to solids not fat, which averages 8.3 per 
cent, and very rarely passes outside of the limits of 8.O per 
cent, and 8.5 per cent. In cases of low solids not fat this 
proportion has been disturbed, and the ash has had a higher 
ratio to the solids not fat." Other observers have found the 
same. 

Richmond also states that when unadulterated milk is 
notably deficient in solids not fat, the deficiency is principally 
in the lactose. 

According to Richmond, the determination of the amount 
of water that has been added to milk is best calculated 
from the figures obtained by adding the difference be- 
tween the specific gravity of the sample and 1000 to the 
figure representing the percentage of the fat. Thus, if a milk 
have the specific gravity of 1029.2 and contain 3.27 per cent, 
of fat, the figure from which the water is calculated is 29.2 -f- 
3.27 = 3 2 -47- The mean figure from unadulterated milks 
was found to be 36.0, but 34.5 is considered to be a safer 
limit. Accepting this figure, the percentage of added water 
in the sample given above would be found by the proportion : 

34.5 : 32.47 : : loo : 94.1 ; 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 

/'. c., the sample would contain 5.9 per cent, of water. Ex- 
periments on milks which had been diluted with known 
proportions of water showed that this method of calculating 
the added water gave nearer approximations to the truth than 
by calculating from the figure for non-fatty solids. 

For ordinary milk control it will suffice to take the specific 
gravity by the lactodensimetcr (see page 200) and the fat by 
the Leffmann-Beam method. From the figures thus obtained 
the total solids can be ascertained by the table or Richmond's 
slide-rule. 

Coloring and Thickening Agents. Several instances of the 
use of brain-matter, dextrin, and gelatin have been recorded. 
It is also stated that sugar, salt, and starch have been added. 
Coloring-matters are used to conceal inferiority in quality. 
At the present time preparations of annatto, turmeric, and 
some coal-tar colors are mostly used, especially the latter. 
Caramel is occasionally used, saffron and carotin but rarely. 
Annatto may be detected by rendering the sample slightly 
alkaline by acid sodium carbonate, immersing a slip of filter- 
paper, and allowing it to remain overnight. Annatto will 
cause a reddish-yellow stain on the paper. 

A. Leys gives the following method for detecting annatto: 
50 c.c. of the sample are shaken with 40 c.c. of 95 per cent, 
alcohol, 50 c.c. of ether, 3 c.c. of water, and 1.5 c.c. of 
ammonium hydroxid solution (sp. gr. 0.900), and allowed to 
stand for 20 minutes. The lower layer, which in presence of 
annatto will have a* greenish-yellow tint, is tapped off" and 
gradually treated with half its measure of 10 per cent, solu- 
tion of sodium sulfate, the separator being inverted without 
shaking, after each addition. By this treatment the casein 
separates in flakes, which conglomerate and rise to the sur- 
face, when the adjacent liquid is tapped off", strained through 
wire gauze, and placed in four test-tubes. To each of these 
amyl alcohol is added, and the tubes shaken and immersed 
19 



218 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



in cold water, which is gradually raised to 80. This causes 
the emulsion to break up, and the alcohol, holding the 
annatto in solution, to come to the surface. The alcoholic 
layer is separated from the lower stratum, evaporated to dry- 
ness, and the residue dissolved in warm water containing 
a little common alcohol and ammonia. A bundle of white 
cotton fibers is introduced and the liquid evaporated nearly to 
dryness on the water-bath. The fiber, which is colored a 
pale yellow, even with pure milk, is washed and immersed in 
a solution of citric acid, when it will be immediately colored 
rose-red if the milk contained annatto. Saffron, turmeric, 
and the coloring-matter of marigolds do not give a similar 
reaction. 

General Method for Colors in Milk. A. E. Leach 2 5 has 
devised a general method for detecting colors in milk. 1 50 
c.c. of the sample are coagulated in a porcelain basin, with 
the addition of acetic acid and heating, and the curd separated 
from the whey. The curd will often collect in a mass ; but 
if this does not occur, it must be freed from whey by strain- 
ing through muslin. The curd is macerated for several hours 
in a closed flask, with occasional shaking, with ether to 
extract fat. Annatto will also be removed by it. The ether 
and curd are separated and treated as follows : 



The ether is evaporated, the residue 
mixed with some weak solution of 
sodium hydioxid.and passed through 
a wet filter ; and when this has 
drained, the fat is washed off and the 
paper dried. An orange tint shows 
annatto, which may be confirmed by 
a drop of solution of stannous chlorid, 
which makes a pink spot. 



If the curd be colorless, no foreign color- 
ing matter is in it ; if orange or brown, 
it should be shaken with strong hydro- 
chloric acid in a test-tube. 



If the mass turns 
blue g> actually, 
caramel is proba- 
bly present. The 
whey should be 
examined for 
caramel ( see 
page 130). 



If the mass turns 
pink at once, an 
azo-color is indi- 
cated. 



M1I.K AND MILK PRODUCTS 2IQ 

Coal-tar colors may often be detected by the wool-test (p. 
77), but H. C. Lythgoe has devised the following method, 
which he finds very satisfactory : 1 5 c.c. of the sample are 
mixed in a porcelain basin with an equal volume of hydro- 
chloric acid (sp. gr. 1.20), and the mass shaken gently so as 
to break the curd into coarse lumps. If the milk contains an 
azo-color, the curd will be pink ; with normal milk the curd 
will be white or yellowish. (See also under " Butter.") 

Starch may be detected by the blue color developed on the 
addition of solution of iodin to the milk. 

Salt and cane-sugar are occasionally added to milk that 
has been diluted with water. The former is detected by the 
taste, the increased proportion of ash and of chlorin. Cane- 
sugar may be detected, if in considerable quantity, by the 
taste. Cotton devised the following test : 10 c.c. of the 
sample are mixed with 0.5 gram of powdered ammonium 
molybdate, and 10 c.c. of dilute hydrochloric acid (i to 10) 
are added. In a second tube 10 c.c. of milk of known purity 
or 10 c.c. of a 6 per cent, solution of milk-sugar are similarly 
treated. The tubes are then placed in the water-bath and the 
temperature gradually raised to about 80. If sucrose be 
present, the milk will assume an intense blue color, while 
genuine milk or milk-sugar remains unaltered unless the 
temperature be raised to the boiling-point. According to 
Cotton, the reaction is well marked in the presence of as little 
as i gram of sucrose to a liter of the milk, and 6 grams 
and over per liter are usually found in adulterated samples. 
(See also page 1 14.) 

The quantitative determination is made by the methods 
described in connection with condensed milk. 

GELATIN. A. W. Stokes detects the presence of gelatin in 
cream or milk as follows : 10 c.c. of the sample, 20 c.c. of 
cold water, and 10 c.c. of acid mercuric nitrate solution 
(page 213) are mixed, shaken vigorously, allowed to stand for 



22O FOOD ANALYSIS 

five minutes, and filtered. If much gelatin be present, it 
will be impossible to get a clear filtrate. A portion of the 
filtrate is mixed with an equal bulk of saturated aqueous solu- 
tion of picric acid. If any gelatin be present, a yellow pre- 
cipitate will be immediately produced. Picric acid will detect 
the presence of one part of gelatin in 10,000 parts of water. 

Antiseptic substances are largely used, especially in the 
warmer season, as a substitute for refrigeration. Many of 
these are sold under proprietary names which give no indica- 
tion of their composition. Preparations of boric acid and 
borax were at one time the most frequent in use, but lately 
formalin, a 40 per cent, solution of formaldehyde (methyl 
aldehyde), has come into favor. Sodium benzoate is now in 
common use as a preservative of cider, fruit-jellies, and simi- 
lar articles, and may, therefore, be found in milk. Salicylic 
acid is not so much employed as in former years. Sodium 
carbonate is occasionally used to prevent coagulation due to 
slight souring. 

R. T. Thomson has studied the comparative value of milk 
preservatives. He finds that a mixture of boric acid and 
borax is more efficient than the acid alone. The quantity 
generally used is equivalent to about 0.5 gram of boric acid 
per liter. Formalin was shown to be by far the most efficient 
antiseptic. In the proportion of 0.125 gram to the liter, it 
kept milk sweet for eight days. 

Formaldehyde. The presence of this body may sometimes 
be detected by the odor developed on warming the milk. O. 
Hehner's method, the most characteristic for its detection, 
depends upon the fact that when milk containing it is mixed 
with sulfuric acid containing a trace of ferric salt a blue color 
appears. H. D. Richmond & L. K. Boseley showed that the 
delicacy of the test is much increased by diluting the milk 
with an equal bulk of water and adding sulfuric acid of 90 to 
94 per cent., so that it forms a layer underneath the milk. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 221 

Under these conditions, milk, in the absence of formaldehyde, 
gives a slight greenish tinge at the junction of the two liquids, 
while a violet ring is formed when formaldehyde is present 
even in so small a quantity as i part in 200,000 of milk. The 
color is permanent for two or three days. In the absence of 
formaldehyde, a brownish color is developed after some 
hours, not at the junction of the two liquids, but lower down 
in the acid. 

Hydrochloric acid containing a small amount of ferric 
chlorid gives a characteristic violet with quantities of formal- 
dehyde not over i part per 1000. The test is applied by 
heating i c.c. of the sample with 4 c.c. of strong hydrochloric 
acid. If a yellow liquid is formed, the sample should be 
diluted two or three times and the test repeated. Hydro- 
chloric acid often contains sufficient ferric chlorid to give the 
test. The addition of 0.25 gram of ferric chlorid to 1000 
c.c. of pure acid will be sufficient. 

The following test has been found satisfactory by some 
observers : 5 c.c. of the sample are boiled with 0.05 gram of 
resorcinol, to which 3 c.c. of a strong solution of sodium 
hydroxid have been added. If formaldehyde be present, the 
yellow solution changes to a fine red. 

O. Hehner also gives the following test: Some of the milk 
is distilled and to the distillate one drop of a dilute aqueous 
solution of phenol is added and the mixture poured on strong 
sulfuric acid contained in a test-tube. A bright crimson zone 
appears at the line of contact. This color is readily seen with 
I part of formaldehyde in 200,000 of water. If there is more 
than i part in loo.ooo, there is seen above the red ring a 
white, milky zone, while in stronger solutions a copious white 
or slightly pink, curdy precipitate is obtained. 

The reaction succeeds only when carried out as described 
above ; the phenol must first be mixed with the solution to be 
tested, and the mixture poured upon the sulfuric acid. Only 



222 FOOD ANALYSIS 

a trace of phenol must be used, and if it be first dissolved in 
the acid and the formaldehyde solution added, no color is 
obtained. 

The precipitate might be utilized for the determination of 
the strength of dilute formalin solutions. 

The rate at which formaldehyde disappears from milk has 
been investigated by Hehner, who found that at the end of a 
week none could be detected in a sample to which had been 
added I part in 100,000; after two weeks none could be de- 
tected in a sample of I part in 50,000 ; and after three weeks 
only a faint trace could be detected in a sample of I part in 
25,000. 

Determination of Formaldehyde. G. J. Romijn examined 
several of the quantitative methods and found the following to 
be satisfactory when no other aldehyde is present in appre- 
ciable amount : 

10 c.c. of the solution are mixed with 25 c.c. N iodin solu- 

* 10 

tion and sufficient strong sodium hydroxid solution added to 
make the liquid bright yellow. After standing 10 minutes, 
hydrochloric acid is slowly added until a marked brown liquid 
is produced. The iodin is then titrated with thiosulfate in the 
usual way. The amount of iodin that has been taken up, 
multiplied by o. 1 18, will give the amount of formaldehyde. 

Sodium Carbonate. The following method, due to E. 
Schmidt, is stated to be capable of detecting o. I per cent, of 
sodium carbonate or of sodium acid carbonate : 

10 c.c. of the milk are mixed with an equal volume of 
alcohol, and a few drops of a I per cent, solution of rosolic 
acid added. Pure milk shows merely a brownish-yellow 
color, but in the presence of sodium carbonate a more or less 
marked rose-red appears. The delicacy of the test is en- 
hanced by making a comparison cylinder with the same 
amount of milk known to be pure. If the salt is present in 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 223 

considerable amount, it may be detected by the increase in 
the ash, its marked alkalinity and effervescence with acid. 

Preservation of Milk-samples. Formaldehyde is now gen- 
erally used ; 0.05 per cent, will keep milk for a month and 
larger quantities for an indefinite period. 

K. J. Bevan has, however, noted the fact that the total 
solids of milk containing formaldehyde are always higher, 
and that the increase is much greater than can be accounted 
for, even assuming that the whole of the formaldehyde re- 
mains in the residue. Experiments on pure solutions of 
albumin, milk-sugar, and cane-sugar showed in each case an 
increase in residue when evaporated with formaldehyde. 

Detection of Boiled Milk. R. Dupouy proposed the fol- 
lowing method : A few drops of a solution of 1-4 diamido- 
benzene in water are added to 5 c.c. of the sample, and then 
a few drops of hydrogen dioxid solution. Raw milk gives a 
blue color ; milk that has been heated over about 79 gives 
no color. The solution of diamidobenzene must be freshly 
prepared. C. H. Rosier has found that 1-3 diamidobenzene 
will serve, and that if the blue milk be shaken with amyl 
alcohol, the blue color passes into the latter and is more 
stable. These tests are applicable for distinguishing between 
pasteurized and sterilized milks. 

H. Faber has shown that raw milk may be distinguished 
from boiled milk or milk that has been heated above 75 by 
the fact that such treatment coagulates or alters the albumin 
so that if the liquid be saturated with magnesium sulfate, 
the albumin is separated along with the albumin casein. 

H. D. Richmond and L. K. Boseley recommend the fol- 
lowing methods to distinguish new milk from milk which has 
been sterilized : 

(a) 100 c.c. of the sample are allowed to stand in a gradu- 
ated cylinder for six hours at 15.5 and the percentage of 
cream noted. If less than 2.5 per cent, of cream has risen 



224 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



for each I per cent, of fat in the milk, the milk may be con- 
sidered suspicious ; if the quantity of cream falls decidedly 
below 2 per cent, for each I per cent, of fat, it is probable 
that sterilized milk is present. 

(b) The albumin is determined by means of magnesium 
sulfate. If less than 0.35 per cent, is found, sterilized milk 
may be considered to be present. 

(c] The milk-sugar is determined by the polarimeter, and 
also gravimetrically, in duplicate. If the difference between 
the two estimations be more than 0.2 per cent, it will be cor- 
roborative evidence of the presence of sterilized milk. It is 
doubtful whether a proportion of sterilized milk much below 
30 per cent, can be detected. 

The following figures, by C. H. Stewart, show the per- 
centage of soluble albumin found in milk raised to various 
temperatures : 





SOLUBLE ALBUMIN IN 


SOLUBLE ALBUMIN IN 


TIMH OF HEATING. 


FRESH MILK. 


HEATED MILK. 


lo minutes at 60 


0.423 


0.418 


30 60 


0-435 


0.427 


10 65 


0-395 


0.362 


30 65 


0-395 


0-333 


10 70 


0.422 


0.269 


30 70 


0.421 


0.253 


10 75 


0.380 


0.07 


3 75 


0.380 


0.05 


10 80 


0-375 


none. 


30 80 


0-375 


none. 



INFECTED MILKS 

Blue Milk. Milk occasionally becomes blue on the sur- 
face, the color forming in patches in proportion as the cream 
rises. The condition is due to the development of a chromo- 
genic bacillus. The condition sometimes prevails in epidemic 
form. The butter prepared from such milk possesses a 
greenish color and a disagreeable butyric odor. 

Red milk is due to accidental contamination with the Ba- 



CONDENSED MILK 225 

cillns prodigiosus and several other forms. The spores of 
these microbes exist in the atmosphere and rapidly develop 
when they fall upon any nutritive medium. 

Ropy Milk. This condition is caused by a special bacillus, 
and is usually seen during moist warm weather. The milk 
when drawn may not show any unusual properties, but in a 
few hours becomes so viscid that a spoonful of it may be 
lifted several inches without breaking the connection between 
the two portions. 

CONDENSED MILK 

The form of condensed milk called " evaporated cream " con- 
sists merely of whole milk concentrated to about two-fifths 
of its bulk, but most condensed milks contain a considerable 
amount of cane-sugar. These samples represent, usually, 
whole milk concentrated to about one-third or two-sevenths 
of its original volume. A small amount of invert-sugar may 
be present. Portions of the lactose may crystallize from con- 
densed milk, and when solutions are prepared for analysis, 
abnormal polarimetric reading will result unless the liquid 
stands for some hours or is heated for a short time to 100. 
The most common defect in condensed milks is deficiency in 
fat, due to preparation from closely-skimmed milks. Preser- 
vatives (other than cane-sugar) and coloring-matters are rarely, 
if ever, used, nor is it likely that foreign fats will be present. 

ANALYSES OF COMMERCIAL CONDENSED MILKS 



TOTAL 
SOLIDS. 


FAT. 


PROTBIDS. 


LACTOSK. 


SUCROSE. 


ASH. 


ANALYST. 


36.7 


10.5 


9-7 


14.2 


none 


2.1 


I'earmain and Moor 


31-2 


9.6 


9.2 


10.9 


none 


I.J 


F. J. Aschm.in 


28.1 


8.8 


8.5 


9.8 


none 


1.8 


F. J. Aschman 


78.4 


93 


9-1 


13-4 


40.4 


2.0 


F. J. Aschman 


74.2 


9.0 


9-3 


IO. 2 


43-7 


'9 


F. I Aschman 


70.9 


1-4 


n .4 


14.6 


41.9 


1.6 


Fearmain and Moor 



The sucrose in the last sample was determined by difference. 



226 FOOD ANALYSIS 

The analysis of unsweetened condensed milks is conducted 
as with ordinary milk, the sample having been previously 
diluted with several times its weight of water heated to boil- 
ing, cooled, and made up to a definite volume. The fat may 
be readily estimated by the L-B. process. 

The full analysis of sweetened condensed milk is difficult, 
and many of the published figures are probably erroneous. 
The large amount of cane-sugar interferes with the extraction 
of the fat by solvents. The same difficulty occurs in the 
analysis of some prepared infant-foods, such as mixtures of 
milk with malt and glucose. 

For the general operations, a portion of the well-mixed 
contents of a freshly-opened can should be accurately 
weighed, diluted with a known amount of water, and well 
mixed, from which mass the portions for analysis may be 
taken and the results calculated to the original sample. 50 
grams mixed with 100 c.c. of water will be a convenient 
quantity. For the polarimetric determination of lactose, a 
special procedure will be necessary ; but for determination of 
solids, ash, total proteids, and total reducing sugars, the ex- 
amination may be made as with ordinary milk upon this 
diluted sample. 

Fat. The Adams method is usually employed. J. F. 
Geisler has investigated its application to condensed milks 
and devised the following method : A quantity of the dilute 
solution equal to not more than I gram of the sample is dis- 
tributed on a fat-free paper coil as described on page 203 and 
extracted for five hours with petroleum spirit or a mixture of 
petroleum spirit and anhydrous ether containing 15 per cent, 
of the latter. 

The Werner-Schmid method may be employed, but the fat 
is apt to be contaminated with caramel. It should be dissolved 
in anhydrous ether, by which the caramel will be left adher- 
ing to the glass ; and after washing this with a little more 



CONDENSED MILK 

ether, it should be dried and weighed and the fat determined 
by difference. 

The estimation of fat by centrifugal method is seriously 
impeded by the carbonization of the sucrose, and various 
methods have been proposed for overcoming this difficulty. 
A. E. Leach devised the following method, which he finds to 
be more trustworthy than ordinary extractions with solvents. 
Leach applied the process to a centrifugal method not identical 
with the one described on page 206, but this is not important : 

15 c.c. of diluted material are measured into the test-bottle, 
water added sufficient to fill it to the beginning of the stem, 
and then 4 c.c. of the copper sulfate solution used for sugar 
determination, the mixture shaken well, and the precipitate 
settled by whirling the bottle in the machine. The super- 
natant liquid is drawn off with a slender-stemmed pipet the 
opening of which is covered with a small piece of absorbent 
cotton. On withdrawing the pipet this cotton is dislodged by 
pressing it against the neck so that it remains in the bottle. 
The precipitate is washed twice with water by the same 
method, settling the precipitate in each case by the use of the 
centrifuge, taking care that the mass is well stirred with the 
water in each operation. After the second washing, about 
1 5 c.c. of water are put in, the precipitate stirred up, the 
amyl alcohol mixture added, then the sulfuric acid, as directed 
on page 206, the mixture whirled, and the fat measured. The 
percentage of fat will be that based on the 15 c.c. used, and 
the amount in the original sample may be calculated from the 
dilution. 

Sugars. If regard is to be given to the presence of invert- 
sugar, a special method must be followed. The processes first 
given consider lactose and sucrose only. 

Lactose. The he.iting employed in the manufacture of con- 
densed milk may reduce the rotatory power of the sugar 
sufficiently to cause error in the polarimetric method. The 



228 FOOD ANALYSIS 

reducing power with alkaline copper solutions is not seriously 
affected. 

Sucrose. This determination may be made by difference ; 
that is, subtracting the sum of the other ingredients from 
the total solids. This will serve for ordinary inspection pur- 
poses, since the amount present is almost always large, gen- 
erally more than the total of milk-solids, and an error even of 
several per cent, does not affect the judgment as to the 
wholesomeness of the sample. Exact work requires, how- 
ever, that the cane-sugar be determined directly, and several 
processes have been devised for the purpose. Sucrose exerts 
but little action on Fehling's solution, but invert-sugar acts 
powerfully, and some processes depend on determining the 
reducing power before and after inversion. Since the polari- 
metric reading is also markedly changed by the inversion, the 
difference in polarization may be employed. Processes of 
fermentation may be so conducted as to remove the sucrose 
(also any form of glucose) while the lactose is unaffected. 
This method is chiefly valuable for recognizing invert-sugar 
or either of its constituents. 

When inversion methods are used, they must be such as to 
secure prompt inversion of the sucrose without affecting the 
lactose. Experiment shows that citric acid and invertase are 
the most suitable agents. A. W. Stokes and R. Bodmer have 
worked out the citric acid method substantially as follows : 

25 c.c. of the diluted sample are coagulated by addition of 
i per cent, of citric acid, without heating, and made up to 
200 c.c. plus the volume of the precipitated fat and proteids (see 
p. 214). The liquid portion, which now measures 200 c.c., is 
passed through a dry filter. The reducing power with alka- 
line copper solutions is determined at once upon 50 c.c. of 
this filtrate. To another 50 c.c., i per cent, of citric acid 
is added and the solution boiled for 10 minutes and the 
reducing power also determined. The increase over that of 



CONDENSED MILK 22Q 

the first solution is due to the invert-sugar formed by the 
action of the citric acid on the sucrose. It is necessary to 
bear in mind that the reducing equivalents of lactose and 
invert-sugar are not the same. If a volumetric method be 
employed, it is probable that the Gerrard-Allen method 
(page 1 1 8) will be satisfactory. 

The following method is based on the difference in polari- 
metric reading before and after action of invertase. About 
75 grams of the sample are accurately weighed in a 100 c.c. 
flask, diluted to about 80 c.c., heated to boiling, cooled, and 
7.5 c.c. of acid mercuric nitrate solution added. The mixture 
is made up to 100 c.c., well shaken, filtered through a dry 
filter, and the polarimetric reading taken at once. It will be 
the sum of the effect of the two sugars. The volume of the 
sugar-containing liquid is calculated by allowing for the pre- 
cipitated proteids and fat, as described on page 214. 

50 c.c. of the filtrate are placed in a flask marked at 5 5 c.c., 
a piece of litmus paper dropped in, and the excess of nitric 
acid cautiously neutralized by sodium hydroxid solution. 
The liquid is then faintly acidified by a single drop of acetic 
acid (it must not be alkaline), a few drops of an alcoholic 
solution of thymol are added, and then 2 c.c. of a solution of 
invertase, prepared by grinding half a cake of ordinary com- 
pressed yeast with 10 c.c. of water and filtering. The flask is 
corked and allowed to remain at a temperature of 35 to 40 
for 24 hours. The cane-sugar will be inverted, while the 
milk-sugar will be unaffected. The flask is filled to the mark 
(55 c.c.) with washed aluminum hydroxid and water, mixed, 
filtered, and the polarimetric reading taken. The amount of 
cane-sugar can be determined from the difference in the two 
readings by the formula on page 125. 

A powerful solution of invertase may be prepared by the 
method recommended by O'Sullivan and Tompson. Brewer's 
yeast is allowed to stand at a temperature of 15 fora month. 



23O FOOD ANALYSIS 

The liquid is filtered and sufficient alcohol added to give 
about 12 per cent, of absolute alcohol. After a few days the 
liquid is filtered and is ready for use. The alcohol acts as a 
preservative. 

W. D. Bigelow and K. P. McElroy propose the following 
routine method for the determination of the sugars, including 
invert-sugar, in condensed milk. The solutions used are : 

Acid Mercuric lodid. Mercuric chlorid, 1.35 grams; potas- 
sium iodid, 3.32 grams; glacial acetic acid, 2 c.c. ; water, 
64 c.c. 

Alumina-cream. See page 123. 

The entire contents of the can are transferred to a porcelain 
dish and thoroughly mixed. A number of portions of about 
25 grams are weighed carefully in 100 c.c. flasks. Water is 
added to two of the portions, and the solutions boiled. The 
flasks are then cooled, clarified by means of a small amount 
of the acid mercuric iodid and alumina-cream, made up to 
mark, filtered, and the polarimetric reading noted. Other 
portions of the milk are heated in the water-bath to 55 ; one- 
half of a cake of compressed yeast is added to each flask and 
the temperature maintained at 55 for five hours. Acid mer- 
curic iodid and alumina-cream are then added, the solution 
cooled to room temperature, made up to mark, mixed, fil- 
tered, and polarized. The amount of cane-sugar is deter- 
mined by formula on page 125. Correction for the volume of 
precipitated solids may be made by the double-dilution 
method (p. 30). The total reducing sugar is estimated in 
one of the portions by one of the reducing methods, and if 
the sum of it and the amount of cane-sugar obtained by in- 
version is equal to, that obtained by the direct reading of both 
sugars before inveftsjon, no invert-sugar is present. If the 
amount of reducing sugar seems to be too great, the milk- 
sugar must be re-determined as follows : 250 grams of the 
condensed milk are dissolved in water, the solution boiled, 



BUTTER 231 

cooled to 80, a solution of about 4 grams of glacial phos- 
phoric acid added, the mixture kept at 80 for a few minutes, 
then cooled to room temperature, made up to mark, shaken, 
and filtered. It may be assumed that the volume of the pre- 
cipitate is equal to that obtained by mercuric iodid solution. 
Enough sodium hydroxid is then added to not quite neutral- 
ize the free acid, and sufficient water to make up for the vol- 
ume of the solids precipitated by the phosphoric acid. The 
mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is measured in portions 
of 100 c.c. into 200 c.c. flasks. A solution containing 20 
milligrams of potassium fluorid and half a cake of compressed 
yeast is added to each flask, and the mixture allowed to stand 
for 10 days at a temperature between 25 and 30. The 
invert-sugar and cane-sugar are fermented and removed by 
the yeast in the presence of a fluorid, while milk-sugar is 
unaffected. The flasks are filled to the mark and the milk- 
sugar determined either by reducing or by the polariscope. 
The amount of copper solution reduced by the lactose and 
invert-sugar, less the equivalent of lactose remaining after 
fermentation, is due to invert-sugar. 



BUTTER 

Butter is a mixture of fat, water, and curd. The water contains 
milk-sugar and the salts of the milk. Common salt is usually 
present, being added after the churning. Artificial coloring 
is frequently used. 

Butter-fat is distinguished from other animal fats in that it 
contains a notable proportion of acid radicles with a small 
number of carbon atoms. Thus, about 91 per cent, consists 
of palmitin and olein and the remainder of butyrin and ca- 
proin, along with small amounts of caprylin, caprin, myristin, 
and some others. According to the experiments of Hehner 
and Mitchell, stearin is present only in very small quantity. 
The exact arrangement of these constituents is unknown. 



FOOD ANALYSIS 

The composition of commercial butter usually varies within 
the following limits : 

Fat, . . 78 per cent, to 94 per cent. 

Curd, I " "3 " 

Water, 5 " "14 " 

Salt, O " "7 " 

Batter containing over 40 per cent, of water is sometimes 
sold. Such samples are pale and spongy, tose weight, and 
become rancid rapidly. 

The official methods of the A. O. A. C. for the analysis of 
butter are as follows : 

Preparation of the Sample. If large quantities of butter 
are to be sampled, a butter trier or sampler may be used. 
The portions thus drawn, about 500 grams, are to be per- 
fectly melted in a closed vessel at as low a temperature as 
possible, and when melted the whole is to be shaken violently 
for some minutes until the mass is homogeneous and suffici- 
ently solidified to prevent the separation of the water and fat. 
A portion is then poured into the vessel from which it is to be 
weighed for analysis, and should nearly or quite fill it. This 
sample should be kept in a cold place till analyzed. 

Water. From 1.5 to 2.5 grams are dried to constant 
weight at the temperature of boiling water, in a dish with flat 
bottom, having a surface of at least 20 sq. cm. The use of 
clean dry sand or asbestos with the butter is admissible, and is 
necessary if a dish with round bottom be employed. 

Fat. The dry butter from the water determination is dis- 
solved in the dish with absolute ether or with petroleum 
spirit (sp. gr. 0.680). The contents of the dish .are then 
transferred to a weighed Gooch crucible with the aid of a 
wash-bottle filled with the solvent, and are washed until free 
from fat. The crucible and contents are heated at the tem- 
perature of boiling water till the weight is constant. 



BUTTER 233 

The fat may also be determined by drying the butter on 
asbestos or sand, and extracting by anhydrous alcohol-free 
ether. After evaporation of the ether the extract is heated 
to constant weight at the temperature of boiling water and 
weighed. 

Casein, Ash, and Cltlorin. The crucible containing the 
residue from the fat determination is covered and heated, 
gently at first, gradually raising the temperature to just below 
redness. The cover is removed and the heat continued until 
the material is white. The loss in weight represents casein, 
and the residue mineral matter. In this mineral matter dis- 
solved in water slightly acidulated with nitric acid, chlorin 
may be determined gravimetrically with silver nitrate, or, after 
neutralization with calcium carbonate, volumetrically, using 
potassium chromate as indicator. 

Salt. About 10 grams are weighed in a beaker in por- 
tions of about i gram at a time taken from different parts of 
the sample. Hot water (about 20 c.c.) is now added to the 
beaker, and after the butter Jias melted, the mass is poured 
into the bulb of a separating funnel, which is then closed and 
shaken for a few moments. After standing until the fat has 
all collected, the water is allowed to run into an Erlenmeyer 
flask, with care not to let fat globules pass. Hot water is 
again added to the beaker, and the extraction is repeated from 
ten to fifteen times, using each time from 10 to 20 c.c. of 
water. The resulting washings contain all but a mere trace 
of the salt originally present in the butter. The chlorin is 
determined volumetrically in the filtrate by means of standard 
silver nitrate and potassium chromate indicator and calculated 
to sodium, chlorid. 

Adulteration with Foreign Fats. The chief adulteration of 
butter consists in the substitution of foreign fats, especially the 
product known as oleomargarin. 

When fats are saponified and the soap treated with acid, the 



254 FOOD ANALYSIS 

individual fatty acids are obtained. It is upon the recognition 
of the peculiar acid radicles existing in butter that the most 
satisfactory method of distinguishing it from other fats is 
based. Since the relative proportion of these radicles differs 
in different samples, the quantitative estimation cannot be made 
with accuracy ; but when the foreign fats are substituted to 
the extent of 20 per cent, or more, the adulteration can be 
detected with certainty and an approximate quantitative deter- 
mination made. 

The detection of adulteration of butter-fat by other fats is 
generally carried out by the determination of the volatile acid, 
but some other confirmatory processes are occasionally em- 
ployed. The data for interpreting results will be found in the 
table on page 168. 

Volatile Acids. The glycerol-soda method (page 146) is 
sufficient for the purpose. No advantage will result from 
using the tedious method with alcoholic solution ; indeed, 
under ordinary circumstances the latter is probably less accu- 
rate. 

Butter (5 grams) yields a distillate requiring from 24 to 34 
c.c. of decinormal alkali. Several instances have been pub- 
lished in which genuine butter has given a figure as low as 
22.5 c.c., but such results are uncommon. The materials 
employed in the preparation of oleomargarin yield a distillate 
requiring less than i c.c. of alkali. Commercial oleomargarin 
is usually churned with milk in order to secure a butter 
flavor, and, thus acquiring a small amount of butter-fat, 
yields distillates capable of neutralizing from I to 2 c.c. of 
alkali. 

If coconut oil (see page 168) has been used in the prepara- 
tion of the oleomargarin, the figure will be higher, but there 
will still be no difficulty in distinguishing pure butter. 

Saponification Value. ^ In the absence of coconut oil, the 
saponification value will give valuable indications as to the 



BUTTER 235 

purity of a butter sample. It is possible to make oleomar- 
garin, by the addition of coconut oil, which would have the 
same saponification value as pure butter. 

Specific Gravity. According to Skalweit, the greatest 
differences between the specific gravity of butter and its 
adulterants are found at a temperature of 35, but the deter- 
mination is more conveniently made at the temperature of 
boiling water. The Sprengel tube or Westphal balance may 
be employed for the purpose. 

The determination of the Reichert number will usually give 
sufficient information as to the nature of a butter sample. In 
doubtful cases it may be of advantage to apply other tests as 
corroborative evidence. The determination of soluble and 
insoluble acids may be employed, but Valenta's test and the 
refractometric examination are especially mentioned as fur- 
nishing results with little trouble in a short time. 

Soluble and Insoluble Acids. The proportion of insoluble 
acids in butter is usually about 87.5 per cent, and of soluble 
acids, calculated as butyric, about 5 per cent. The insoluble 
acids may be present to the extent of 88.5 per cent., but, 
according to most authorities, they will only reach 90 per 
cent, in the presence of adulterants. These figures apply to 
fresh samples. After keeping until rancidity has developed 
the proportion of insoluble acids may be increased I per cent, 
or more. 

Mixtures of butter, oleomargarin, and coconut oil may have 
the same proportion of insoluble acids as butter. 

Valenta's Test. Jones recommends the employment of a 
standard butter with which to standardize each fresh batch of 
acid, and dilution of the acid to such a point that the turbidity 
tem|>erature with this butter-fat is 60 In this way the results 
arc comparable with those of previous tests. 

With such acid oleomargarin gave temperatures from 95 
to 1 06, and generally from 100 to 1O2. 



236 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Refractowetric Examination. This is most satisfactorily 
made by the oleorefractometer or the butyrorefractometer. 
F. Jean prepares the sample for examination in the former as 
follows : 30 grams of butter are melted in a porcelain dish at 
a temperature not exceeding 50, stirred well with a pinch or 
two of gypsum, and allowed to settle out at the same temper- 
ature. The supernatant fat is decanted through a hot-water 
funnel plugged with cotton and poured while warm into the 
prism of the apparatus, stirred with the thermometer until the 
fat has cooled to 45, and the deviation observed. Ether must 
not be used for the solvent, as minute traces of it seriously 
influence the result. 

The following table is a summary of the results obtained 
by several observers, including F. Jean and T. M. Pearmain : 

DEGREES IN 
OLEORKFRACTOMETER. 

Butter 25 to 34, usually 30 

Oleomargarin, 13 to 18 

Butter with 10 p. c. oleomargarin ( 17), . 28 
Butter with 50 p. c. oleomargarin, . . . 23 

Lard, 8 to 14 

Coconut oil, .... 59 

Arachis oil, 3.5 to 7 

Cottonseed oil, 12 to 23 

Cottonseed "stearin," 25 

De Bruyn found as low as 21 in butter from animals fed 
on linseed cakes. A mixture of coconut oil and oleomargarin 
may be made having the same refractive power as pure butter 
Evidently, therefore, it is not possible from this datum alone 
to state that a given sample is pure butter, but a sample ex- 
hibiting a refraction of 20 or under may be pronounced 
adulterated. 

The results obtained by examination in Zeiss's butyrore- 
fractometer are in the main the same as those just given. 
The instrument is said to be superior to the oleorefractometer, 
and is less costly. 

Commercial forms of oleomargarin and butter exhibit char- 



BUTTER 237 

acteristic differences on heating, which may be utilized for 
rapidly sorting a collection of samples. When butter is 
heated in a small tin dish directly over a gas flame, it melts 
quietly, foams, and may run over the dish. Oleomargarin, 
under the same conditions, sputters noisily as soon as heated 
and foams but little. Even mixtures of butter and other fats 
show this sputtering action to a considerable extent. The 
effect depends upon the condition in which the admixed water 
exists, and the test is not applicable to butter which has been 
melted and reworked (renovated or process butter). 

An alcoholic solution of sodium hydroxid, heated for a 
moment with butter, and then emptied into cold water, gives 
a distinct odor of pineapples, while oleomargarin gives only 
the alcoholic odor. 

Butter Colors. Most of the butter and practically all but- 
ter substitutes are colored either with preparations of turmeric 
and annatto or azo-colors allied to methyl-orange. The lat- 
ter forms are now most largely used. They may be detected 
by the test devised by J. F. Geisler. 26 A small amount of 
the sample, or, better, the fat filtered from it, is mixed on a 
porcelain plate with a little fuller's earth. Azo-colors give 
promptly a red mass, while if they are not present, the mix- 
ture becomes only yellow or light brown. All samples of 
fuller's earth are not equally active, and tests should be made 
with different samples by using fat known to contain the azo- 
compound until a good specimen of the earth is secured. 

The precipitate obtained by Geisler by mixing fuller's earth 
with a sample of highly colored butter was washed with light 
petroleum to remove the fat and gave a violet-red powder on 
drying. Alcohol immediately decolorized it, but the color 
reappeared on evaporation of the alcohol. Boiling alcohol 
extracted the color from the earth, producing a yellow solu- 
tion. The color so extracted dissolved in sulfuric acid to a 



238 FOOD ANALYSIS 

yellow solution, which, on dilution, developed a bright pink 
or red color. 

For the detection of veiy minute quantities of the color, the 
sample may be dissolved in light petroleum, and the fuller's 
earth added to the solution, when the pink color will appear 
as a distinct ring or zone at the edge of the deposited layer of 
the reagent. 

According to Geisler, the yellow azo-dye is generally used 
in conjunction with an orange variety which does not respond 
to the above test. 

A. H. Low has proposed the following test for the yellow 
azo-color : A few cubic centimeters of the filtered fat are 
mixed in a large test-tube with an equal volume of a mixture 
of one part strong sulfuric acid and four parts glacial acetic 
acid. The contents of the tube are then heated almost to 
boiling and thoroughly mixed by violently agitating the bot- 
tom of the tube. When now allowed to stand and separate, 
the lower layer of mixed acids will be strongly colored 
wine-red if the azo-color be present. Pure butter-fat imparts 
no color to the acids, or, at most, only a faint brownish 
tinge. 

For turmeric and annatto mixtures, E. W. Martin's test 
will usually be satisfactory : 2 c.c. carbon disulfid are mixed 
with 1 5 c.c. of alcohol, by adding small portions of the disul- 
fid to the alcohol and shaking gently ; 5 grams of the butter- 
fat are added to this mixture in a test-tube and shaken. The 
disulfid falls to the bottom of the tube, carrying with it the 
fatty matter, while any artificial coloring-matter remains in 
the alcohol. The separation takes place in from one to three 
minutes. If the amount of the coloring-matter is small, 
more of the fat may be used. If the alcoholic solution be 
evaporated to dryness and the residue treated with concen- 
trated sulfuric acid, annatto will be indicated by the produc- 
tion of a greenish-blue color. With many samples of oleo- 



CHEESE 239 

margarin a pink tint will be obtained, which indicates an 
azo-color. 

Preservatives. The preservatives used in milk may be 
found in limited amount in butter, but boric acid is now 
sometimes added as a substitute for salt. It will be detected 
by the method given on page 89 in the water obtained by 
melting the butter and allowing the mass to settle. 

Glucose 27 is now used as a preservative, especially in butter 
intended for export to tropical countries. C. A. Crampton 
found as much as 10 per cent, in a sample of Bcurre rouge (a 
highly colored butter) intended for exportation to Guadeloupe. 
For the detection of glucose the phenylhydrazin test might be 
used. For determination of glucose, Crampton used the fol- 
lowing method : 10 grams of the sample were washed with 
successive portions of convenient bulk, the solution made up 
to 250 c.c., and an aliquot portion determined, as given on page 
1 1 6. The solution may also be clarified by alumina-cream or 
acid mercuric nitrate and examined in the polarimeter. 



CHEESE 

Cheese is the curd of milk which has been separated from 
it, pressed, and undergone some fermentation. The precipita- 
tion is produced either by allowing the milk to become sour 
when the lactic acid is the agent or by rennet. The first- 
named method is mainly applied to the manufacture of so- 
called Dutch or sour-milk cheese, green Swiss cheese, and 
cottage cheese. More commonly cheese is obtained by means 
of rennet derived from the fourth stomach of the calf. The 
action is due to an enzym which acts directly on the proteids 
and does not produce its effect through the intervention of 
acids. The curd (cheese) undergoes, by keeping, various 
decompositions, some essentially putrefactive, and due to the 



24O FOOD ANALYSIS 

action of microbes. The decomposition of the cheese is 
termed "ripening." 

In the sour-milk cheeses, ripening is restricted intention- 
ally, since there is liability to an irregular and miscellaneous 
bacterial growth by which the fermentations may be carried 
too far, undesirable and even harmful products being formed. 
Such cheeses are intended for prompt use. 

Cheese contains no casein, if by this term is meant the 
proteid as it exists in milk, or when precipitated from milk by 
acids. When milk is coagulated by rennet, only a part of the 
proteids enter into the curd; true casein contains about 15.7 
per cent, of nitrogen, but the proteid matter of cheese con- 
tains about 14.3 per cent. Under the process of ripening 
this is further decomposed, amido- and ammonium com- 
pounds, peptones and albumoses, being formed. 

The following figures, obtained by L. L. Van Slyke, will 
serve to give some idea of the extent to which the curd is 
changed in ripening. The figures represent average percent- 
age on the total nitrogen. The cheese was an American 
cheddar : 

GREEN CHEESE. AFTER FIVE MONTHS. 

Soluble nitrogen compounds, ... 4.23 35. 5 2 

" amido " ... none 11.66 

" ammonium " ... none 2.92 

Van Slyke's experiments seem also to indicate that the 
cheese ripened more rapidly when the curd was precipitated 
by a larger quantity of rennet and, especially, that cheese rich 
in fat ripened more rapidly than skim-milk cheese. 

In addition to the fat and nitrogenous compounds just 
mentioned, cheese may contain a small amount of milk-sugar 
and of lactic and other organic acids. There is present also 
a certain proportion of mineral matter, alkaline and earthy 
phosphates, along with any salt that has been added. Traces 
of nitrates have been found. 



CHEESE 241 

Skimmed milk is not infrequently used for the production 
of cheese. Partially- skimmed milk is used in the preparation 
of certain Dutch cheeses. Foreign fats, such as are used in 
the manufacture of oleomargarin, are sometimes incorporated, 
the article being known as " filled cheese." 

The ash of cheese consists largely of calcium phosphate 
and salt. G. Mariani and E. Tasselli have* estimated the total 
ash, chlorin, calcium, and phosphoric acid in 15 samples of 
cheese. The amounts of salt (calculated from the chlorin) de- 
pend on the mode of salting. The proportion of phosphoric 
oxid was always greater than that necessary to form trical- 
cium phosphate, ranging from 1.07 and 1. 08 equivalents of 
phosphoric anhydrid to calcium oxid in cheese made from 
sour milk to 1.56 to I in Gorgonzola, 1.67 to I in skim-milk 
cheese, and 1.75 to I in Edam cheese. The largest quanti- 
ties of calcium and phosphoric oxid were found in sheep's- 
milk cheese and in cheese made from sour milk, whence it 
follows that acidity does not prevent the precipitation of cal- 
cium phosphate in the curds. The excess of phosphoric oxid 
obtained was attributed to acid phosphates. 

The salt in cheese usually ranges between I and 4 per 
cent. 

Analytic Methods. The analytic points usually deter- 
mined in regard to cheese are water, fat, casein, ash, the pres- 
ence of fats other than butter-fat, and coloring-matters. 

In addition to this, especially in comparing the qualities of 
genuine cheeses, the proportion of proteic, amidic, and ammo- 
niacal nitrogen is of value. 

Care should be taken to select for analysis a sample which 
represents the average composition of the entire cheese. 

The following methods for the determination of water, fat, 
ash, total nitrogen, and acidity have been adopted by the 
A. O. A. C. : 

Sampling. When the cheese can be cut, a narrow wedge- 



242 FOOD ANALYSIS 

shaped segment, reaching from the outer edge to the center 
of the cheese, is taken. This is to be cut into strips and 
passed through a sausage-grinding machine three times. 
When the cheese cannot be cut, samples are taken by a 
cheese trier. If only one plug can be obtained, this should 
be perpendicular to the surface, at a point one-third of the 
distance from the edge to the center of the cheese. The 
plug should reach entirely through, or only half-way through, 
the cheese. When possible, draw three plugs one from the 
center, one from a point near the outer edge, and one from a 
point half-way between the other two. For inspection pur- 
poses, the rind may be rejected ; but for investigations requir- 
ing the absolute amount of fat in the cheese, the rind is 
included in the sample. It is preferable to grind the plugs in 
a sausage machine, but when this is not done, they should be 
cut very fine and carefully mixed. 

Wafer. Between 2 and 5 grams of the sample should be 
placed in a weighed platinum or porcelain dish which con- 
tains a small amount of material, such as freshly ignited as- 
bestos or sand, to absorb the fat which may run out. This 
is then heated in a water-oven for 10 hours and weighed ; the 
loss in weight is considered as water. If preferred, the dish 
may be placed in a desiccator over concentrated sulfuric acid 
and dried to constant weight, but this may require many days. 
The acid should be renewed when the cheese has become 
nearly dry. 

Fat. The extraction-tube described on page 202 is prepared 
as follows : Cover the perforations in the bottom of the tube 
with asbestos, and on this place a mixture containing equal 
parts of anhydrous copper sulfate and pure dry sand to the 
depth of about 5 cm., packing loosely, and cover the upper 
surface with a film of asbestos. On this are placed from 2 to 5 
grams of the sample, the mass extracted for 5 hours with anhy- 
drous ether, then removed and ground to fine powder with pure 






CHEESE 243 

sand in a mortar. The mixture is placed in the extraction 
tube, the mortar washed free from all matters with ether, the 
washings being added to the tube, and the extraction is con- 
tinued for 10 hours. The fat so obtained is dried at 100 to 
constant weight. 

Total Nitrogen. This is determined by the Kjeldahl-Gun- 
ning method, using 2 grams of the sample. The percentage, 
multiplied by 6.25, gives the nitrogen compounds. 

Ash. The dry residue from the water determination may 
be taken for the ash. If the cheese be rich, the asbestos will 
be saturated therewith. This mass may be ignited carefully, 
and the fat allowed to burn off, the asbestos acting as a wick. 
No extra heating should be applied during the operation, as 
there is danger of spurting. When the flame has died out, 
the burning may be completed in a muffle at low redness. 
When desired, the salt may be determined in the ash by titra- 
tion with silver nitrate and potassium chromate. 

Proi'isional Method for the Determination of the Acidity in 
Cheese. Water at a temperature of 40 is added to 10 grams 
of finely divided cheese until the volume equals 105 c.c., 
agitated vigorously, and filtered. Portions of 25 c.c. of the 
filtrate corresponding to 2.5 grams of the cheese are titrated 
with decinormal solution of sodium hydroxid, using phenol- 
phthalein as indicator. The amount of acid is expressed as 
lactic acid. 

The above processes may be advantageously modified in 
some respects. The determination of water may be made by 
the extraction of the cheese with alcohol and ether and 
drying of the alcohol-ether extract and fat-free solids sep- 
arately. A. W. Blyth recommends this method as more 
accurate and less tedious than the direct drying. In 
the determination of ash, it will be better to extract the 
charred mass with water and proceed as described in the de- 
termination of the ash of milk. 



244 FOOD ANALYSIS 

The fat extracted by ether may be examined for other than 
butter-fat by the distillation method in the usual way. When 
the composition of the fat is alone desired, it may often be 
extracted by simpler methods. T. M. Pearmain and C. G. 
Moor recommend that 50 grams be chopped fine and tied up in 
a muslin bag, which is placed in a water-bath. When the 
water is heated, the fat will generally run out clear. If not 
clear, it can be filtered through paper. 

O. Henzold suggests the following : 300 grams of the 
powdered cheese are agitated in a wide-neck flask with 700 
c.c. of 5 per cent, solution of potassium hydroxid previously 
warmed to 20. In about 10 minutes the cheese dissolves, 
the fat floats, and by cautious shaking may be collected in 
lumps. The liquid is diluted, the fat removed, washed in very 
cold water, kneaded as dry as possible, melted, and filtered. 
It is claimed that the fat is not altered in composition by the 
process. 

The fat of cheese may be estimated by the centrifugal 
method, as follows : 

About 3 grams of the mixed cheese in small fragments are 
weighed and transferred to the bottle, the last portions being 
washed in with the aid of water. A few drops of ammonium 
hydroxid are added, and sufficient water to make the liquid 
about 15 c.c. The liquid is warmed with occasional shaking 
until the cheese is well disintegrated, and then treated as a 
sample of milk. The percentage of fat is found by multiply- 
ing the percentage reading by 15.45 and dividing by the num- 
ber of grams of cheese taken for analysis. 

W. A. Chattaway, T. M. Pearmain, and C. G. Moor use the 
following modification : 2 grams of the cheese are placed in a 
small dish and heated on the water-bath with 30 c.c. of con- 
centrated hydrochloric acid until a dark, purplish-colored 
solution is produced. The mixture is now poured into the 
test bottle, portions of solution remaining in the dish rinsed 



CHEESE 245 

with the hydrochloric acid fusel-oil mixture into the bottle, 
and, finally, enough strong hot acid added to fill the bottle up 
to the mark. It is then whirled for about a minute. The 
difficulty in this method is to get all the fat into the bottle. 
It is best to weigh the cheese in the bottle. 

Bondzynski applies the Werner- Schmid method to the de- 
termination of fat in cheese, as follows : A weighed quantity 
of the finely-shredded cheese is placed in the tube and decom- 
posed with 20 c.c. hydrochloric acid of specific gravity I.I, 
containing about 19 per cent. HC1. On cautiously warming 
over wire gauze, the melted fat rises to the surface. After 
cooling, 30 c.c. of ether are added and the tube warmed very 
gently until the acid and ethereal solution of fat separate 
sharply. Centrifugal force helps this, but is not essential. 
After the volume of ether has been read off, 20 c.c. are 
pipetted off into a weighed Erlenmeyer flask. From this, 
the quantity of fat in the entire solution may be calculated. 

Lactose. This may be estimated by boiling the finely di- 
vided cheese with water, filtering, and determining the reduc- 
ing power of the filtrate on Fehling's solution. 

Determination of Proteid Nitrogen (Stutzer's Method). 0.7 
to 0.8 gram of the cheese are placed in a beaker, heated to 
boiling, 2 or 3 c.c. of saturated alum solution added to decom- 
pose alkaline phosphate, then copper hydroxi'd mixture (see 
page 46) containing about 0.5 gram of the hydroxid, and 
stirred in thoroughly ; when cold, the mass is filtered, washed 
with cold water, and, without removing the precipitate from 
the filter, the nitrogen determined by the Kjeldahl-Gunning 
method. Before distillation, sufficient potassium sulfid solu- 
tion must be added to precipitate the copper. 

Ammonium Compounds. About 5 grams of cheese are 
rubbed up in a mortar with water, transferred to a filter, and 
washed with a liter of cold water. The filtrate is concentrated 
by boiling (if alkaline, it must be neutralized before heating), 



246 FOOD ANALYSIS 

barium carbonate added, the liquid distilled, and the ammonium 
hydroxid in the distillate estimated by titration with standard 
acid. 

According to Stutzer, magnesia or magnesium carbonate 
(the latter usually contains some magnesia) should not be 
used to free the ammonia, as some of the amido-compounds 
may be decomposed. 

Amido-compounds. The nitrogen as amido-compounds is 
estimated by subtracting from the figure for total nitrogen 
the sum of the proteid and ammoniacal nitrogen. If nitrates 
are present, the nitrogen as such should also be determined 
and subtracted. 

Van Ketel and Antusch propose the following methods for 
estimating the nitrogen compounds : 

Ammonium Compounds. The sample, powdered with the 
addition of sand, is distilled with water and barium carbonate, 
and the distillate received in a measured quantity of standard 
sulfuric acid, and, after boiling, the excess of acid is neutral- 
ized with standard sodium hydroxid, using rosolic acid as 
indicator. 

Amido-compounds. These are estimated by macerating the 
powdered cheese in water for I 5 hours at the ordinary tem- 
perature. After adding a little dilute sulfuric acid (i : 4), the 
proteids and peptones are precipitated by phosphotungstic 
acid. The precipitate is filtered off and washed with water 
containing a little sulfuric acid. The filtrate is made up to a 
definite bulk, and the nitrogen is determined in an aliquot por- 
tion of the liquid by the Kjeldahl-Gunning process, allow- 
ance being made for the nitrogen existing as ammonium. 

Peptones and Albumoses. These are determined jointly by 
boiling the powdered cheese (mixed with sand as before) with 
water and filtering from the un dissolved casein and albumin. 
In an aliquot portion of the filtrate the peptones and albu- 
moses are precipitated by adding dilute sulfuric acid and 



CHEESE 247 

phosphotungstic acid. After washing with acidulated water 
the nitrogen in the precipitate is determined by the Kjeldahl- 
Gunning process. 

The total nitrogen of the cheese is also determined, and 
after allowing for the nitrogen existing as other forms, the 
balance is calculated to casein. 

Poisonous Metals. Lead chromate has been found in the 
rind of cheese, and finely divided lead in a number of Cana- 
dian cheeses. In England zinc sulfate has been employed 
under the name of cheese spice to prevent the heading and 
cracking. Arsenic has also been found ; it may be detected 
by Reinsch's test. Lead, zinc, and chromium may be 
detected by ashing a portion of the sample in a porcelain cru- 
cible and proceeding as on page 68. 

ANALYSES OF VARIOUS CHEESES 
(Reports by W. A. Chaltaway, T. M. Pearmain, and C. G. Moor) 

REICHKKT-.MKISSL 
NAME. WATER. ASH. FAT. NUMBER. N. 

Cheddar, 33.0 4.3 29.5 24.2 4.31 

( irgonzola, . . . .40.3'- 5.3 26.1 22.1 4.36 

Dutch, 41.8 6.3 10.6 27.0 5.11 

(Jruyere, 28.2 4.7 28.6 30.0 4.93 

Stilton, 19.4 2.6 42.2 29.0 4.73 

Cheshire, 37.8 4.2 31.3 31.6 4.03 

Gloucester, 33.1 5.0 23.5 31.4 4.99 

Camembert, . . 47.9 4.7 41.9 31.0 3.83 

Parmesan, 32.5 6.2 17.1 28.0 6.86 

Roquefort, ... 29.6 6.7 30.3 36.8 4.45 

Double Cream, . . .57.6 3.4 39.3 31.2 3.14 

Filled (United States), 30.6 3.6 27.7 3.0 4.84 

The common American cheese is known as Cheddar. 
According to L. L. Van Slyke, this has, when ripe, about the 
following average composition : 

Water 31.50 per cent. 

Fat, 37.00 " 

Proteids 26.25 " 

Ash, sugar, etc. 5.25 " 



248 FOOD ANALYSIS 

FERMENTED MILK PRODUCTS 

The usual fermentation of milk is the conversion of the 
lactose into lactic acid, but by special methods other changes 
may be substituted. These modified fermentations are of 
rather ancient origin, and being produced by mixture of 
organisms, the products are complex and irregular. The 
proteids are more or less changed into proteoses and pep- 
tones. 

Kumiss is milk which has undergone alcoholic fermentation. 
The inhabitants of the steppes of Russia prepare it from 
mare's milk. When cow's milk is used, cane-sugar must be 
added. It is often made by adding cane-sugar and yeast to 
skim-milk. 

P. Vieth gives the following analyses of kumiss at succes- 
sive stages of fermentation : 



THREE 
MONTHS. 

I.I 
8-5 
i-5 
1.7 

O.I 

1-7 
1.9 
0.9 

0.2 

o-3 

The item " lactoproteid and peptone " refers to the sub- 
stances precipitated by tannin after removal of the casein and 
albumin. 

KUMISS FROM MARE'S MILK 



Alcohol, . . 


KUMISS FROM 

ONE DA 
. . II 


COW'S MILK 

ONE ONE 
.Y. WEEK. MONTH. 

0.9 i.o 
8.9 86 
1-4 i-5 

2.0 1.9 
0. 2 0. 2 
3.1 2.2 

0.9 i-3 

0.5 0.7 

O.2 O.2 
0. 1 O. I 


Solids, . . 


. II. ? 


Fat, 


1.6 


Casein, . . 


2.O 


Albumin, 


. 0. 7 


Sugar, 


6.1 


Lactic acid, 
Lactoproteid 
Soluble ash, 
Insoluble ash 


0. 2 


and peptone, 0.3 
o. I 


. O.4 



AT THE 






NITROGENOUS 


LACTIC 






END OF : 


ALCOHOL. 


FAT. 


MATTERS. 


ACID. 


SUGAR. 


ASH. 


I day, . 


2.47 


1. 08 


2.25 


0.64 


2.21 


0.36 


8 days, . 


. 2.70 


I-I3 


2.00 


1.16 


0.69 


0-37 


22 " 


.2.84 


1.27 


1.97 


1.26 


0.51 


0.36 



FERMENTED MILK PRODUCTS 249 

AV/jr. This is usually made fro.n cow's milk. It has 
been used in the Caucasus for centuries. For its preparation 
a peculiar ferment is used, which is contained in the kefyr 
grains. These are first soaked in water, by which they are 
caused to swell, and are rendered more active and then added 
to the milk. If taken out of the milk and dried, the grains 
may be used repeatedly. 

The following are analyses of kefyr : 

KONIG. HAMMARSTEN. 

Alcohol 0.75 o 72 

Fat, 1.44 3.08 

Casein, .2.88 2.94 

Albumin, 0.36 o. 18 

Hemialbumose, 0.26 0.07 

Peptone, 0.04 

Sugar, 2.41 2.68 

Lactic Acid, 1.02 0.73 

Ash 0.68 0.71 

According to Konig, good kefyr will not contain more than 
i per cent, of lactic acid. 

Analytic Methods. Fixed solids and ash are determined 
by evaporations of a weighed amount in a platinum basin as 
described on page 36. Acidity is determined by filtration 
with N alkali, using phenolphthalein or methyl-orange as an 
indicator. The amount of acidity is expressed in terms of 
lactic acid. The Kjeldahl-Gunning method will give the total 
nitrogen. For further examination of the nitrogenous bodies, 
the methods given on pages 245 and 246 may be applied. Total 
reducing sugars may be estimated as given on page 1 16. If 
sucrose and common yeast have been added, the fermented 
material will be likely to contain invert-sugar, with unchanged 
lactose and sucrose, and the method of examination of sweet- 
ened condensed milk may be applicable. Fat can, probably 
in all cases, be determined with sufficient accuracy by the L- 
H. process. If it be desired to make polarimetric readings, 
the liquid should be clarified with acid mercuric nitrate solu- 
22 



25O FOOD ANALYSIS 

tion (page 2 1 3), as some partly hydolyzed proteids which have 
rotatory power may not be precipitated by other reagents. The 
determination of alcohol accurately is difficult, as the quan- 
tity is usually small. The cautious distillation of a consider- 
able volume of the material previously neutralized with a little 
sodium hydroxid will yield a distillate in which alcohol may 
be determined by specific gravity. 

Preservatives are not likely to be used, since they would 
interfere with the fermentation, but attempts may be made to 
secure better keeping by adding some preservative after the 
fermentation has occurred. In some cases, therefore, tests 
for boric acid, formaldehyde, and salicylic acid should be made, 
as these will be most likely to be used. 



TEA 



2 5 I 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

TEA 

Tea is the prepared leaf of several species of Tkea. Black 
and green tea are derived from the same plant, the difference 
being due to the preparation. The quality of tea depends 




FIG. 46. 

<7, Klowery pekoe ; b t orange pekoe ; c, pekoe ; d, souchong 1st ; e, souchong 2d ; 
/, congou; a and b (mixed), pekoe; a, b, c, J, e (mixed), pekoe souchong. 

much upon the age of the leaf and the time of picking. 
Many pickings are made in a season, the first being of the 
finer quality. The above figure, due to Money, 28 indicates 
the leaves that constitute the different kinds of tea, classified 
according to age. 



252 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Black tea is prepared by exposing the leaves to the sun 
until they have withered. They are then rolled and again set 
aside, usually in the sun, covered with a white cloth until fer- 
mentation takes place. They are then exposed in a thin 
layer until they have become quite dark, and are finally dried 
by heat. 

Green tea undergoes no fermentation. In Japan, the leaves 
are steamed until soft, rolled, and dried ; in China, they are 
heated in pans. 

In addition to tannin and the usual plant constituents, tea 
contains a notable proportion of caffein. In a given variety 
of tea, the proportion of caffein usually, but not always, 
bears some relation to the quality, and so does the soluble 
ash and water-extract. 

Caffein (thcin), trimethylxanthin, has been found in tea, 
coffee, mate (Paraguay tea), guarana, and kola. When 
slowly crystallized from its solution in chloroform or water, it 
forms light, silky, flexible needles. These are said to con- 
tain one molecule of water, but the proportion actually found 
by experiment corresponds to rather less, owing probably to 
loss by efflorescence. On heating to 100 the alkaloid 
becomes anhydrous. If the heating be long continued, a 
little caffein is volatilized, but it does not volatilize with 
steam. It melts at 231-233, and at 384 boils with partial 
decomposition. It is slightly soluble in cold water, but dis- 
solves readily in hot, giving a bitter solution. It is somewhat 
soluble in rectified spirit, less so in absolute alcohol, only 
sparingly in cold ether, nearly insoluble in petroleum spirit, 
and freely soluble in chloroform and benzene. It is decom- 
posed by heating with dilute solution of sodium hydroxid, 
barium hydroxid, or calcium hydroxid. 

The following analyses by Kozai indicate the difference in 
composition between green and black Japan teas. The 
figures represent percentage on the dry material : 



TEA 253 

ORIGINAL LEAVES. GREKN TEA. BLACK TKA. 

Crude fiber, 10.44 10.06 10.07 

protein 37.33 37.43 38.90 

I-'.ther extract, 6.49 5.52 5.82 

Other nitrogen-free extract, . . . .27.86 3' 43 35-39 

Ash, 4.97 4.92 4.93 

Caffein, 3.30 3.20 3.30 

Tannin 12.91 10.64 4.89 

Water-extract 50.97 53-74 47-23 

Nitrogen, total 5.97 5.90 6.22 

" of albuminoid, . .... 4.11 3-94 4- 1 1 

" of caffein 0.96 0.93 0.96 

" of ainido-compounds, ..0.91 1.13 I.l6 

The proportion of tannin found in black tea is only about 
one-half that of the green tea. 

Comparing the same varieties of tea, it will be seen that 
the commercial value is proportional to the percentage ot 
soluble ash, extract, tannin, and caffcin. 

Indian teas. Results from a great number of examinations ; 

Moisture, 5.83 to 6.32 per cent. 



Insoluble leaf, . 47.12 

Extract, 37-8o 

Tannin, 13.04 

Caffein, - 1.88 

Ash, total, . . . 5.05 

" soluble in water, 3-' 2 

4 insoluble in acid, 0.12 



55-87 
40.35 
18.87 

3-24 

6.02 

4.28 
0.30 



It is probable that the proportion of cafiein in the above 
analyses is slightly underestimated. The determination was 
made by treating the watery extract with magnesia, evapo- 
rating to dryness, and extracting with ether. 

As is evident from the proportion of tannin noted above, 
Indian teas are much more astringent than Japan or China 
teas. 

The tea-leaf is ovate-lanceolate with short stem not sharply 
distinguished from the blade. The distal two-thirds of the 
leaf is marked by serrations with slightly curved spines. At 
the insertion of these spines the leaf tissue is thickened. This 
structure is wanting in young leaf buds (flowery pekoe). The 



254 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



i Z 












Z h " J c O 





J O t^x - ^- 


OO 


o 


t> 


^- 


<!*! 





vo cs 

a. 


c^, 


$ 


^> 


rs 


- 1 u 












S 2 - a H < 


- O oo tx 


^ 


_ 


w 


VO 


3 & 8 - 2 


VO N O 


vO 


r>^ 


oo 


M 


O ^ O M *** 




CN 


^O 


VO 


N ^ 




(_>""> 2 eu 














^g*S H te a * * -* 


rj 


oo 


ON 


vo 


Z a* 2 2 $ * X "~> "^ O 


ON 


vO ' 


M 


M 


S^,u fc ,r 




ro 


10 


CN 




M 





CJ . . 


vo 


t^ 





^ 


5 5 f 3 


v/-> ro O 


ON 


VO 


O 


^^ 


gg|Z* 





C 1 ) CO vo 


^ 


ON 


ON 





Illll ? 


vO ro O 

a. 





vS 


^ 


1-1 


g 

2g|p 


oa 


j N vq vo 

VO CO O 


vq 


vo 


o 

00 


-i 


fc> =5l 


00 




* 


vo 


M 




1 
J 




M 


y VO 00 O 

vo r i i 

Q. 


vd 


00 

vO 


s 


ro 


g'i 





r^ vo vo 


VO 


^ 


00 


M 


I X 


* 

w o 


vO co O 


S 


O 

vO 


4 


PO 


y 


<o 












< a: - 














"i o w ^. . 





j ON oo ON 


^t- 


VO 


CO 


M 


INl5 


00 


d vo N 


CO 


ON 

VO 


vO 


M 


t ^ u 














o a . . 

C Z O fe a. 

125-2 


u 


d vo vq oo 
vO co O 


q 


4 


VO 

oo 


t 


O S ^ (j 






* 










. 


u 13* 


* 


* 








jj 


'o 












I 


rt rt 












"o 


* .2 





























i 


* *" ^ 




* - * 








a 


OJ JO 




rt 









c 


- 3 ^ 


. 


-^ 


. 


. 




o 


rt 3 




<u 








i 

V 

u 


c 

-4-1 C/) .S 

<f> I - 


Extract 


Insolub 


c 

'5 

OJ 

H 


c" 

i 

<3 



TKA 



255 



venation is a midrib running to the extreme end of the leaf 
with frequent lateral nearly opposite branchings anastomosing 
near the edge and sending off secondary branches to the ex- 
treme ,edge. The apex of the tea leaf is often distinctly 
notched, whereas most other leaves are pointed. 

The stomata and hairs are fairly characteristic ; the annexed 
figure is from J. Moeller's work. 




Fin. 47. 
sf, Stomata; //, hair; /, cells containing chlorophyl. (X 1 60.) 

Adulteration. The substitution of inferior grades of tea 
for those of finer aroma and strength is the common adulter- 
ation of tea. Other forms are : additions, such as sand, ex- 
hausted leaves, foreign leaves, and materials to increase astrin- 
gency, especially catechu. Green tea is often colored or 
" faced " with Prussian blue, indigo, or turmeric, and black 
tea with graphite. Lie tea is an imitation made of dust and 
sweepings of tea or other leaves along with mineral matter of 
various kinds and held together by means of starch or gum. 
It is readily detected by the addition of hot water, when the 
mass breaks down into the fragments of which it is composed. 



256 FOOD ANALYSIS 

The following analyses of spurious teas, received from the 
United States Consuls at Canton and Nagasaki (Japan), were 
made by J. B. Rattershall : ' 29 

I. 2. 3. 4. 

Total ash, 8.62 8.90 7.95 12.58 

Ash insoluble in water, . . 7.98 6.04 4.95 8.74 

Ash soluble in water, ... 0.64 1.86 3.00 3.84 

Ash insoluble in acid, . . 3.92 3.18 1.88 6.60 

Extract, 7-73 14.00 12.76 22.10 

Gum, 10.67 7.30 n.oo 11.40 

Insoluble leaf, 70.60 70.55 67.00 60. 10 

Tannin, 3.13 8.01 14-5 l S-^>4 

Caffein, ... 0.58 none 0:16 0.12 

1. Partially exhausted and refired tea leaves, known as 
" Citing Sney " (clear water), which name doubtless has refer- 
ence to the weakness of a beverage prepared from the article. 

2. " Lie tea," made from Wampan leaves. 

3. A mixture of 10 per cent, green tea and 90 per cent, 
"lie tea," sometimes sold as "Imperial" or "Gunpowder" 
tea. 

4. " Scented caper tea," consisting of tea dust made up 
into little shot-like pellets by means of " Congou paste " (/'. e., 
boiled rice). 

ANALYTIC METHODS. 

Water. This is determined as on page 36. A slight 
amount of caffein may be lost in the drying and counted as 
water, but the error so introduced is negligible. 

Ash. Soluble ash and alkalinity of soluble ash. (See 
page 48.) 

Extract. 2 grams of the finely powdered tea are boiled for 
an hour in a flask provided with a reflux condenser. The 
liquid is decanted and the residue boiled for a short time 
with successive portions of 50 c.c. of water until this is no 
longer colored. The solutions are mixed, heated, filtered 
through a tared filter, to which the insoluble leaf is also 
transferred. After washing with boiling water, the filter and 



TEA 257 

contents are dried to constant weight. The extract is deter- 
mined by difference, or, if desired, the filtrate is made up to a 
definite volume, and an aliquot portion evaporated and dried 
at 1 00 and weighed. 

Nitrogen. The total nitrogen is determined by the method 
described on page 41. Albuminoid nitrogen is determined 
by Stutxer's method (page 46). 

Caffcin. This is best determined by A. H. Allen's method : 
6 grams of the finely powdered tea and 600 c.c. of water are 
boiled under a reflux condenser for six or eight hours ; 4 
grams of lead acetate in powder are then added and the liquid 
again boiled for ten minutes. If, on removing the source of 
heat, the precipitate does not curdle and settle readily, leaving 
the liquor colorless or nearly so, a further addition of lead 
acetate must be made and the boiling repeated. When 
clarification is effected, the liquid is passed through a dry 
filter, 500 c.c. of the filtrate (5 grams of the tea) are evapo- 
rated to about 50 c.c., and a little disodium hydrogen phos- 
phate is added to precipitate. the remaining lead. The liquid 
is filtered, the precipitate washed, and the filtrate further con- 
centrated to about 40 c.c., when the caffein is extracted by 
at least four agitations with chloroform. The separated 
chloroform solutions are mixed, and distilled in a tared flask 
immersed in boiling water. While the flask is still hot the 
last traces of chloroform are removed by a current of air, and 
the residual alkaloid is weighed. 

Determinations of caffein based upon the treatment of the 
leaves with boiling lime water or other alkali are valueless, as 
the alkaloid is decomposed by such treatment. The process 
of Paul and Cownley, by which the leaves are treated with 
magnesia and the dried mixture exhausted by alcohol, has 
been shown to furnish results below the truth. 

The following volumetric method, due to II . Gomberg, has 
In i M reported upon favorably by K. F. Ladd : 



258 FOOD ANALYSIS 

A weighed quantity of the tea is boiled with water as above, 
the solution made up to a known volume, and filtered. An 
aliquot portion of the filtrate is treated with lead subacetate 
so long as a precipitate is formed. After standing, the pre- 
cipitate is filtered off, the excess of lead carefully removed by 
hydrogen sulfid, the filtrate from the lead sulfid boiled to 
remove hydrogen sulfid, and divided into two equal parts. 
One portion is acidified with sulfuric or hydrochloric acid and 
excess of decinormal iodin solution added ; after standing 5 
to 10 minutes it is filtered and the filtrate titrated with deci- 
normal thiosulfate solution. If, in the other portion, potas- 
sium iodid-iodin solution (page 35) produces a precipitate, a 
correction is necessary, i c.c. of decinormal thiosulfate cor- 
responds to 0.00485 gram of caffein. 

Facing. The coloring-matter used in facing is usually 
present in minute amount, and is best detected by the micro- 
scope, the leaf being examined by reflected light. A good plan 
is to shake some of the leaves with water, allow the suspended 
matter to settle, and examine the sediment by the microscope 
and chemically. Prussian blue may be distinguished from 
indigo by the fact that the color of the former is discharged 
by addition of sodium hydroxid. Indigo forms a deep blue 
solution with sulfuric acid. Turmeric is detected as noted 
under " Mace." Graphite may be detected by examination 
under the microscope. 

Added Mineral Matter. Any considerable addition of 
mineral matter will be shown by the increased proportion of 
ash, which usually ranges from 5 to 6.5 per cent., and only 
in exceptional cases rises to 7.5 per cent. Magnetic iron 
oxid and particles of iron have been found in tea, and may be 
readily separated from it by the magnet. Sand and powdered 
brick have also been found. The former may be accidental. 

Exhausted Tea Leaves. The detection of admixture of 
moderate proportion of added tea leaves is difficult. Con- 



TEA 259 

siderable addition will be indicated by the decreased propor- 
tion of extract and caffein, and especially of soluble ash and 
its alkalinity. The soluble ash of pure tea is from 2.5 to 4 
per cent., and is usually over 3 per cent., whereas that ot 
exhausted tea is generally not over 0.8 per cent. The alka- 
linity of the soluble ash expressed as potassium oxid is from 
1.25 to 2 per cent, (calculated on the dry tea). In exhausted 
tea the alkalinity is likely to be less than 0.3 per cent. 

The soluble ash is best calculated to percentage of total ash. 
The interference of sand may be eliminated by calculating the 
proportion of ash soluble in water to that soluble in acid. 
Wigner obtained the following average results from the ex- 
amination of 67 samples of tea : 

Siliceous matter, 7.96 per cent 

Soluble in acid, 37-54 " 

" " water, 54-5 " 

Alkalinity of soluble ash, 25.09 per cent. 

Excluding the portion insoluble in acid, the figures become : 

Soluble in water, 59-2' percent. 

Alkalinity of soluble ash, 27.26 " 

A proportion of soluble ash to total ash less than 40 per 
cent. (45 per cent., excluding siliceous matter) gives rise to 
suspicion of adulteration with exhausted leaves. 

The minimum proportion of extract yielded by pure tea is, 
according to the standard fixed by the Society of Public 
Analysts in 1874, not less than 30 per cent. The proportion 
usually found much exceeds this figure, but congou may 
contain less. The proportion of caffein found by different 
observers ranges from 1.8 to 4 per cent, the lower propor- 
tions being found in Japan teas. 

Exhausted leaves have in some instances been found to be 
partly unrolled or much frayed and broken, and more posi- 



26O FOOD ANALYSIS 

tive indications might be had by the examination of selected 
leaves of suspicious appearance. 

Foreign Astringents. Catechu is sometimes added, especi- 
ally to " lie " or " caper " tea, or to mask the presence of 
exhausted leaves. It may be detected by Hager's test : 
About a gram of the sample is boiled with water, the extract 
treated with excess of lead monoxid, and filtered. A solu- 
tion of silver nitrate is added to clear the filtrate ; in the 
presence of catechu, a yellow flocculent precipitate, which rap- 
idly becomes dark, is formed. Pure tea gives only a slight 
grayish precipitate of silver. A. H. Allen recommends the 
following process, which should be applied to the suspected 
tea, side by side with a genuine sample : I gram of the pure 
tea, and an equal weight of the suspected sample, are infused 
in separate portions of 100 c.c. each of boiling water, and the 
strained liquid precipitated while boiling with a slight excess 
of neutral lead acetate. 20 c.c. of the filtrate from the pure 
tea (which should be colorless), when cautiously heated and 
treated with a few drops of silver nitrate solution, avoiding 
excess, gives only a very slight grayish cloud or precipitate 
of reduced silver ; but the same tea containing 2 per cent, of 
added catechu gives a copious brownish precipitate, the liquid 
acquiring a distinctly yellowish tinge. With a somewhat 
larger proportion of catechu, the filtrate from the lead precipi- 
tate gives a bright green color on adding one drop of dilute 
ferric chlorid, while the solution from pure tea gives only a 
slight reddish color, due to the presence of acetate. On 
allowing the liquid to stand, the adulterated tea gives a pre- 
cipitate of a grayish or olive-green color, the pure tea under- 
going no change. 

Foreign Leaves. A small proportion of foreign leaves, 
such as those of the rose, jasmine, and orange, are sometimes 
added to impart bouquet, but these are usually removed be- 
fore packing. Other foreign leaves, especially the sloe, wil- 



TEA 26l 

low, elder, CJiloranthns inconspicuus, Camellia sasanqua, and 
J'jiryti chincnsis, have been added in considerable quantity, but 
the practice, so far as concerns the tea shipped to the United 
States, seems to be less common than formerly. The detec- 
tion of such additions is best made by the appearance of the 
leaf and the microscopic examination, but a few chemical tests 
have been proposed which may be of some assistance. A. 
W. Blyth proposes to utilize the presence of manganese, 
which is a constant constituent of the ash of tea. The sus- 
pected leaf is ashed and the ash treated on fused platinum foil 
with potassium nitrate and carbonate. The distinct green 
color due to a manganate is readily recognized. Allen has 
applied the test to various leaves and found manganese to be 
present in the following : Species of The a (tea), Camellia sa- 
sanqua, C. japonica, coffee, beech, blackberry, and sycamore. 
Manganese was absent from the leaves of the hawthorn, ash, 
raspberry, cherry, plum, and rose, and only faint traces were 
detected in the leaves of the Ilex paraguayensis, elm, birch, 
lime, sloe, elder, willow herb, and willow. Blyth has also 
proposed the following test, depending upon the isolation of caf- 
fein and recognition by its crystalline form under the micro- 
scope : The leaf or fragment is boiled for a minute in a watch- 
glass with a very little water, an equal bulk of calcined mag- 
nesia is added, and the whole heated to boiling and rapidly 
evaporated to a large-sized drop. This drop is transferred to 
a subliming cell, and if, after heating to about 1 10, no crys- 
talline sublimate of cafiein is obtained, the leaf cannot be a 
tea leaf. If, however, a sublimate of caffein is obtained, it is 
not conclusive evidence, since other plants contain the alka- 
loid. 

More satisfactory results are obtained by the examination 
of the shape and venation of the leaf. The sample should be 
softened by soaking in hot water, carefully unrolled, trans- 
ferred to a microscope slide, and examined with a hand lens. 



262 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Such examination will usually be sufficient, but in doubtful 
cases it may be necessary to use higher powers. (See plates 
in Appendix.) 

COFFEE 

COFFEE is the seed of species of Coffea, especially C. ara- 
bica L., cultivated in tropical countries. The fruit usually 
consists of two seeds surrounded by a pulp, which is removed 
by fermenting and washing. The membranous pericarp re- 
moved by machinery is sometimes roasted and used as a sub- 
stitute for coffee. 

The following are the more important constituents of raw 
coffee : An essential oil, fat, caffetannates, caffein, and caf- 
fearin. The essential oil has been little studied. The fat of 
coffee is soluble in alcohol, but its composition is not yet 
clearly ascertained. 

Caffetannic acid may be obtained by diluting the alcoholic 
infusion of coffee with water, filtering from the precipitated 
fatty matter, and adding lead acetate to the boiling filtrate. 
On decomposing the washed filtrate with hydrogen sulfid the 
acid is obtained. It is crystalline, astringent, soluble in 
water, less soluble in alcohol, and very sparingly in ether. 
It gives a dark green coloration with ferric chlorid, and does 
not precipitate gelatin. 

Coffee contains a fairly constant proportion of caffein (see 
next page). According to Paladino, there is also present a 
narcotic alkaloid, which he calls caffearin. Paladino's results 
seem to be corroborated by those of Forster and Riechel- 
mann, who found an alkaloid distinguished from caffein by 
the following characteristics : failure to respond to the mu- 
rexid test, precipitability by picric acid, and insolubility in 
chloroform. 

Roasted coffee contains a small amount of sugar, which, 
according to Spencer, consists largely of sucrose. It appears 



COFFEE 263 

to be absent from raw coffee and is derived from the decom- 
position of the glucosids (tannins). 

The aroma of roasted coffee is clue to caffeol, which may be 
separated by distilling with water, agitating the distillate with 
ether, and evaporating. It is an oily liquid, slightly soluble 
in hot water, but easily soluble in alcohol and ether. By fu- 
sion with caustic soda it yields sodium salicylate. The phy- 
siological effects of coffee are attributed to the caffeol, caffein, 
and caffearin. 

The roasting of coffee results in a notable reduction of 
some of the constituents, especially the caffein, fat, and sugar. 
When properly conducted, the total loss in weight amounts 
to from 12 to 1 8 per cent., of which about 8 per cent, repre- 
sents moisture. Konig gives the following figures, calculated 
as percentage of moisture-free material : 

RAW. ROASTED. 

Soluble in water, 3-93 28.36 

Total nitrogen, 2.21 2.38 

Cafiein, 1.33 1.42 

Fat, >. I4-9I 16.14 

Sugar, 3.66 1.35 

Fiber, 31.24 25.07 

Other nitrogen-free matter, 34-55 39-^4 

Ash 3.92 3.87 

Coffee is sometimes glazed with sugar before roasting. 
According to Konig, when so treated it retains much more 
moisture. According to Hilger and Juckenack, glazed coffee 
requires to be heated to a much higher temperature, which 
results in about double the usual loss of caffein and fat. 

ADULTERATION. Raw coffee is subject to less adulteration 
than roasted and especially ground coffee. Coffee beans differ 
considerably in size and quality according to their origin, and 
the inferior kinds are sometimes so treated as to give them the 
appearance of the better qualities. 3 

West India coffee is for the most part even-sized, pale and 



264 FOOD ANALYSIS 

yellowish, firm and heavy, with fine aroma, losing little 
weight by the roasting process. 

Brazil coffee is larger, less solid, greenish or white, usually 
styled by the brokers " low " or " low middlings." 

Java coffee is smaller, slightly elongated, pale in color, 
light and deficient in essential oil. 

Ceylon coffee is of all descriptions, but the ordinary planta- 
tion products are even-colored, slightly canoe-shaped, strong 
in aroma and flavor, heavy, and permit of adulteration more 
than other kinds. 

Mocha coffee is usually considered the best, but very little 
reaches the United States. Porto Rico coffee often is called 
Mocha. The grains of Mocha coffee are small and dark 
yellow. 

Java coffee, when new, is pale yellow, and is then cheaper 
than when old and brown. This color is partly the effect of 
curing as well as the result of age. 

The variation in the size of coffee beans is shown in the 
following table, due to Thorpe : 

NUMBFR OF SEEDS CONTAINED 
IN A 50 c.c. MKASUKE. 

Fine brown Java 187 

Fine Mysore, 198 

Fine Neilgherry, 203 

Costa Rica, 203 

Good ordinary Guatem. la, 207 

Good Laguayra, 210 

Good average Santos, . ... 213 

Fine long-berry Mocha, 217 

Good ordinary Java, 223 

Fine Ceylon plantation, . 225 

Good average Rio, 236 

Medium plantation (Ceylon), . ^ ....... 238 

Manila, 248 

Ordinary Mocha, 270 

West African, 313 

Java coffee, being of high price, has been imitated by color- 
ing the cheaper grades with dyes or mineral pigments. 

According to Waller, Java coffee is imitated by exposing 



COFFEE 265 

South American coffee to a high moist heat, by which the 
color is changed from green to brown. 

Raw coffee is heavier than water. Fade gives the specific 
gravity of raw coffee berries at from 1.041 to 1.368. Dam- 
aged coffee that has been washed and partially roasted to 
improve the color may have a specific gravity less than I. 
Roasted coffee has a specific gravity of from 0.500 to 0.635, 
but samples that have been made to take up much water by 
steaming and then coating with glycerol or sugar (see page 
263) may possess a specific gravity appreciably higher (0.650 
to 0.770). Implicit reliance should not be placed upon these 
figures, since over-roasted coffees may be heavier than water. 
The specific gravity of raw coffee may be determined by im- 
mersing the beans in strong brine and cautiously adding 
water until they remain suspended in the liquid. The specific 
gravity of the liquid is then determined as usual. In the 
case of roasted coffee the brine is replaced by petroleum spirit 
to which is gradually added ordinary petroleum. 

Adulteration with exhausted coffee beans is reported by 
Roos. The samples examined yielded only I per cent, of 
ether extract. 

Facing. The following are reported to have been used as 
"facing" for coffee. Scheele's green, chrome yellow, ochre, 
silesian blue, burnt umber, Venetian red, charcoal, indigo, 
ultramarine blue, clay, gypsum. A blue color is also said to 
be produced by shaking the beans with finely powdered iron. 
The beans are sometimes polished by rotating in a cylinder 
with soapstone. 

The examination for facing should be made with the micro- 
scope, and also by shaking with water and examining the 
sediment, as described under tea (page 258). Artificial colors 
may usually be detected by treating the beans with strong 
alcohol, evaporating to dryness, and testing the residue (see 
pages 77 and 79). 
23 



266 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Imitation beans have frequently been sold for use in mixing 
with coffee. In some cases these are molded in close imita- 
tion of the true beans. The material used for the purpose is 
sometimes clay, but more frequently one or more of the fol- 
lowing : Wheat flour, chicory, bran, rye, peas, and acorns. 
These are often mixed with molasses. Ferrous sulfate has 
also been found. 

Most imitation coffee is heavier than water, but the readiest 
means of detection is by means of the microscope, the appli- 
cation of the iodin test for starch, and determination of the ash. 

Many substances have been used as substitutes for coffee as 
well as for its adulteration ; among these are chicory, Mogdad 
and Mussaenda coffee, roasted cereals and leguminous seeds, 
cocoa husks, and figs. 

Coffee contains no starch, a constituent of many adulter- 
ants, such as cereals and acorns. It may be detected by 
Allen's method : The coffee is boiled for a few minutes with 
about ten parts of water. When the liquid has become per- 
fectly cold, some dilute sulfuric acid is added, a strong solution 
of potassium permanganate is dropped in cautiously, with 
agitation, until the coloring-matter is nearly destroyed, when 
the liquid is strained or decanted from the insoluble matter 
and iodin added. A distinct reaction occurs in the presence 
of even I per cent, of starch. In identifying the starch 
granules with the microscope it is advisable to make a pre- 
liminary extraction of the sample with ether, and subsequently 
with alcohol. 

Chicory is the root of the Cichoriitm intybus L. It is distin- 
guished from coffee by the microscope. The cells of the 
parenchyma are large, smooth-walled, and regular. Thte 
milk ducts are branched and filled with a coarsely granular 
material. The body of the root contains long, pointed cells 
presenting a characteristic dotted appearance. (See Fig. 48.) 
Dandelion and other sweet roots present a somewhat similar 



COFFEE 



267 



structure, but the ducts are scaliform, the cells larger, and 
milk vessels are absent. It contains no starch. Rimmington 
recommends the following method for the detection of 
chicory : The sample is boiled for a short time with water 
containing a little sodium carbonate ; the solution is decanted 
and the residue treated with a solution of bleaching powder 
for several hours, when decolorization will be effected. The 
coffee will be found as a 
dark stratum at the bottom 
of the beaker and the chic- 
ory as a light stratum 
above it. 

The following prelimin- 
ary tests may be of value 
in the detection of adultera- 
tion. A small quantity of 
the ground material is 
sprinkled on cold water. 
Coffee will usually float, 
and impart very little color 
to the water. Chicory and 
most other additions sink, 
and the caramel contained 
in them dissolves quickly, 
forming a dark and usually 
turbid solution. Coffee 
grains are hard, whereas 

chicory and some other adulterants, after maceration for 
some hours in water, are quite soft. At the end of this time, 
if the mixture be transferred to a piece of stretched cloth and 
rubbed with a pestle, the chicory will pass through. 

The proportion of the adulterant which has been detected 
by the microscope or the preliminary tests just mentioned may 
often be determined with a fair degree of accuracy by chemi- 




FIG. 48. 

Vascular tissue ; A/>, parenchyma ; /, 
fibers ; m, medullary rays. 



268 FOOD ANALYSIS 

cal examination, especially by the determinations of fat, 
caffein, water extract, and ash. 

The actual amount of coffee present may be determined 
by calculation from the caftein present. Paul and Cownley 
have shown that most of the published methods for determin- 
ing caffein give results below the truth. They have proposed 
the following method, and recommend that it be carried out 
on the material dried at 100 in order to eliminate the error 
due to variable proportions of moisture and at the same time 
allow better grinding of the sample and better extraction : 
5 grams of the finely powdered dry material are mixed in a 
mortar with 2 grams of ignited magnesia, the mixture thor- 
oughly moistened with hot water, again triturated, dried at 
100, extracted with boiling alcohol, and the resultant liquid 
evaporated nearly to dryness, boiled with 50 c.c. of water, 
and treated with a few drops of dilute sulfuric acid. When 
cold, the liquid is filtered and repeatedly shaken with chloro- 
form until exhausted. The chloroform solution is then 
agitated with a very dilute solution of sodium hydroxid, 
which removes a little coloring-matter. The chloroform is 
distilled off" in a weighed flask and the residue weighed. The 
caffein so obtained may contain a small quantity of waxy or 
resinous matter and may be purified by solution in boiling 
water, filtration, and evaporation of the filtrate. 

The greatest care should be taken that the treatment with 
alcohol and chloroform be continued until no more material 
is extracted. The complete extraction by alcohol is es- 
pecially difficult, and for this reason it may be preferable to 
make the determinations as described under tea (page 257), 
employing 10 or 12 grams of the material. In the presence 
of chicory the extracted alkaloid is liable to be strongly 
colored, and Allen recommends that it be redissolved in water, 
a few drops of sodium hydroxid added, and the liquid again 
extracted with chloroform. 



COFFEE 269 

The proportion of caffein in various coffees, as determined 
by Paul and Cownley, was found to be fairly constant, the 
limits being usually from 1.2 to 1.29 per cent., or, in the case 
of Liberian coffee, 1.39 per cent. A proportion of 1.2 per 
cent, might be taken as a basis of calculation. 

I : at. The fat of coffee may be determined by extracting 
with petroleum spirit the material dried at 100. According 
to Macfarlane, the petroleum spirit extract from previously 
dried coffee usually ranges from 10 to 12 per cent. Only one 
sample out of nearly fifty showed less than 10, and 12.5 per 
cent, was reached only in a few cases. 

Water-extract. Valuable indications are often furnished by 
the determination of the amount of water-extract, which is 
fairly uniform and little affected by the usual variations in 
extent of roasting. The determination is simplified by the ob- 
servation of the specific gravity of the watery solution, as rec- 
ommended by Graham, Stenhouse, and Campbell. 3 l One part 
of the sample is treated with ten parts of water, the liquid 
heated to boiling, cooled to 15.5, and the specific gravity 
taken. The following figures were obtained in this manner : 

Mocha coffee, . . 1008.0 Turnips, 1021.4 

Neilgherry coffee, . 1008.4 Dandelion, 1021.9 

Plantation Ceylon Red beet, 1022.1 

coffee, .... 1008.7 Marigold wurzel, IO2 3-5 

Native Ceylon cof- Lupins, 1005.7 

fee, 1009.0 Peas, 1007.3 

Java coffee, . . . 1008.7 Beans 1008.4 

Jamaica coffee, . . 1 008. 8 Brown malt, 1010.9 

Costa Rica coffee . 1009.0 Black " 1021.2 

average, 1008.7 Rye meal, 1021.6 

Chicory, . . 1019.1 to 1023.6 Mai/.e, i 2 5-3 

average, . 1021.0 Bread raspings, 1026.3 

Parsnips 1014.3 Acorns 1007.3 

Carrots, 1017.1 Spent tan, 1002.1 

According to McGill, the specific gravity of the infusions ot 
coffee and chicory are materially affected by the fineness of 
powder and the time occupied in heating the solution to boiling, 
and the duration of the boiling. The following process is 



2/O FOOD ANALYSIS 

recommended : 10 grams of the dried, finely powdered sample 
are heated with 100 c.c. of distilled water in a flask provided 
with a reflux condenser. The heat is adjusted so that ebulli- 
tion commences in 10 to 15 minutes, and the boiling continued 
for exactly one hour ; the liquid is allowed to stand for 1 5 
minutes, and then passed through a dry filter. The average 
specific gravity of the decoction from pure coffee was found to 
be 1009.86 at 17, and that of chicory, 1028.21. Theamount 
of coffee present in a mixture of coffee and chicory might be 
approximately calculated from the following formula, in which 
C is the percentage of coffee and d the observed specific 

gravity at 17: 

__ 1028.21 d 



0.1835 

J. Macfarlane has determined the water-extract by boiling 
with water the dried residue from the determination of fat 
(page 269) and redrying and weighing the residue. The 
water-extract is determined by difference. The following 
results were obtained : 

Coffee (Santos, Mocha, and Java), . . . 20.4-22.4 per cent. 
Chicory, .............. 77.7 " " 

Hehner has found highly roasted chicory to give a water- 
extract as low as 54. 1 per cent, and a specific gravity of the 
loper cent, solution of 1019. 

Cassal has found genuine coffee to give a water-extract as 
high as 29 per cent. More recently several observers have 
called attention to the fact that the proportion of water-soluble 
matter in commercial chicory may be markedly greater than 
that found in the above samples, examined years ago. This 
appears to be due, as pointed out by B. Dyer, to the less 
roasting to which it is subjected. The following results, due 
to Dyer, were obtained by boiling the sample with water, 
washing, drying, and weighing the insoluble residue, and 



COFFEE 27 1 

determining the soluble matters by difference. The moisture 
varied in extreme cases from I to 4 per cent., but the results 
were calculated as percentage of the dried material : 

INSOLUBLE ASH 

IN ETHER- NITRO- TOTAL SOLUBLE IN 
WATER. KXTRACT. GEN. ASH. WATER. SAND. 

Chicory "nibs" described 

as " medium roast," . . 22.40 2.57 1.53 4.63 2.50 0.70 
Chicory "nibs" described 

as " dark roast," . . . . 50.30 2.43 1.67 4.70 2.99 0.30 

Ground chicory, 9 samples, 21.50 1.90 1.23 5.33 1.60 0.77 

to 37.80 to 3.87 to 1.52 to 8.23 to 3.30 to 3.97 

In eight out of the eleven samples the matter insoluble in 
water ranged from 21.50 to 23.50 per cent. One sample 
contained 35.50, one 37.80, and one 50.30 per cent. 

Graham, Stenhouse, and Campbell have suggested the tinc- 
torial power of the infusion as a means of determining adul- 
terants in coffee. As a rule, the coloring power of chicory is 
about three times as great as that of coffee. The method 
may be useful in the detection of added caramel or of added 
sugar which has been caramelized in roasting. The infusion 
should be compared with that made from pure coffee. 

The ash of coffee is usually 3.5 to 4.5 per cent., and 
rarely, if ever, 5 per cent. Of this, about 80 per cent, is 
soluble in water. It contains no silica, or, at most, mere 
traces, and is almost invariably white. A red ash usually 
indicates adulteration. A notable amount of potassium is 
present, but sodium may be present in small amount. Analy- 
ses by Ludwig indicate that the composition of coffee ash is 
subject to marked variation according to soil. Chicory con- 
tains about 6 per cent, of ash, of which only from 30 to 40 
per cent, is soluble in water. It may contain several per cent, 
of silica and usually carries considerable admixed sand. So- 
dium is always present, often to a considerable extent. 

The ash of cereals and leguminous seeds is usually less 
than that of coffee (see page 99). 



2/2 FOOD ANALYSIS 

The following table, due to Konig, gives some results 
obtained from the examination of various coffee adulterants : 

WATER- 
EXTRACT 
CALCU- 
LATED 

NITRO- ETHER- ON THE 

GENOUS EX- N-FREE DRY MA- 

WATER. MATTER. TRACT. SUGAR. MATTER. FIBER. ASH. TERIAL. 



Chicory, roasted, . 
Figs, roasted, . . . 
St. John's bread 
(Carob bean), 
Cereals (rye, etc ), . 
Malt, 
Mogdad coffee ( Cas- 
sia occidenta Us ) , 
"Congo" coffee, 
raw, 


13 

I 2 

5 

12 

7 

1 1. 
i 


.16 

So 

35 
So 
.08 

09 

72 


6-53 

4-57 

8-93 
12.15 

13-05 

15-13 

30.82 


2 
2 

3 
3 

2 
2. 
I. 


74 
.96 

65 
57 
25 

55 
26 


'7 
32 

4 
'5 


.89 41 
5 31 

69.83 
12 55 
67 5* 

46.69 

27 OQ 


42 
.92 

.66 
74 


12.07 
12.34 

10.15 

8.45 
7.38 

21.21 
44.1 


6.19 
5.21 

2.09 

3-55 
2.83 

4-33 

1 7O 


70.50 
82.50 

63-7I 
48.53 
65.00 

30.00 


"Congo" coffee, 
roasted, . . . . 
Acorns, shelled and 
roasted, .... 
Date stones (Phx- 
nix dactylifera), 
Fruit of ,wax palm, 
raw, 


j 1 
4- 

12. 

9- 
q 


/ 

22 

50 
27 
77 


j? 
27.06 
6.78 
5-46 

6. 54 


I. 

4- 
8. 

IO, 


9 
35 
5o 
57 


3 
i. 


J / <w :7 

2 5 39 
69.27 
52.86 

67 25 


74 
48 


*T L 
19.28 
5.O2 
23-97 

44. 11 


J' / ** 

4-63 
2.07 
1.44 
2.O6 


22.5O 
28.88 
12.87 
I ? 41 


Fruit of wax palm, 
roasted, . . . . 


y 

3 


J i 
.76 


v - jt 
6.99 


M 


j i 
06 


i. 


vyy AJ. 

25 33 


T"" 

25 


*tt- o* 
38.45 


2.24 


O-4* 
I4-03 



A number of methods have been proposed for the deter- 
mination of the caramel in coffee roasted with sugar. A 
method due to Hilger is as follows : 10 grams of the whole 
coffee are shaken for half an hour each time with three suc- 
cessive portions of 100 c.c. of a mixture of equal parts ot 
water and 85 per cent, alcohol. The united solutions are 
made up to 500 c.c., filtered, the residue dried at 100, 
weighed, and the ash determined and deducted. It is neces- 
sary to decant the liquid from the berries before filtering, 
since the extra time considerably increases the relative amount 
of ash in the extract, due to the more complete extraction of 
the constituents of the berry itself. Fresenius and Griinhut 
consider that the best results are had by deducting from the 
result a mean constant for the materials extracted from the 
coffee itself. 



COFFEE 



273 



The following results were obtained. The roasting of the 
coffee without sugar was performed in the normal manner ; 
/. (., the loss on roasting was about 18 per cent. : 

SOLUBLE RESIDUE 
(LESS ASH). 

Yellow Java 0.71 

Green " 0.62 

Blue " 1.39 

Maracaibo, 0.60 

Average 0.83 



Yellow Java roasted with "J l / z per cent, of sugar, 

9 
Green " 

' 9 

Blue r/2 

<i ti 

Maracail-o 



PERCHNTAGK OF ASH- 

FRKE SOLUBLE MATTER 

LESS 0.83. 

. 2.21 
.2.83 
. 2.06 

3-46 

2-55 
4.OO 
2. 7 8 

3-39 



Coffee Extracts. Many attempts have been made to pre- 
pare a concentrated infusion of coffee, but the results have 
not been satisfactory. In most cases preservatives are neces- 
sary. Some preparations contain excessive proportions of 
sugar, and occasionally caffein is added to enrich the mixture. 
C. G. Moor and M. Priest 32 give the following analyses of 
English preparations : 



Co 


fee ext 


ract, 


. 30- Q 




. 27.0 


with chicory, 


. 30.0 
. 14.8 




4^-4 


with chicory, 


37-6 
. so. 6 


with chicory, 
" sugar, . 
" chicory, 


. 48.6 

5i-5 
.48.5 



TOTAL SOLIDS. ASH. 

4.25 
0.95 
0.36 
1.28 

0-43 
0.36 

o-55 
1.87 
2.50 
1.14 



NITROGEN. CAFFEIN. 

0.96 1.98 

0.15 0.47 

. . 0.32 

0.23 0.54 

0.06 0.57 

. . 0.02 

0.41 0.56 

0.37 0.26 

0.38 o.6l 

0.30 0.28 



In the first sample caffein has probably been added. 
Essence of Coffee. Coarsely broken cereals roasted with 
24 



2/4 FOOD ANALYSIS 

molasses have sold under this title. The nature of the 
material may usually be determined by simple inspection. Of 
late years, the term " essence for coffee " has been substituted. 



CACAO AND CHOCOLATE 

Cacao is prepared from the seeds of Theobroma cacao L. 
The fruit contains from 25 to 40 slightly flattened ovate 
seeds, 1.5 to 2.5 cm. long and 0.6 to 1.5 cm. broad, which 
are colorless when first removed from the pulp, but become 
yellow, red, or brown on exposure. They are dried in the 
sun, either at once or after being subjected to fermentation 
(brought about in some cases by burial), which removes the 
pulp and much of the acridity and bitterness. 

Cacao seeds contain theobromin, caffein, fat, tannin, starch, 
gum, proteids, and tartrates. The taste and odor are due to 
volatile materials developed in roasting. 

Theobromin, dimethylxanthin, crystallizes in colorless, 
minute, rhombic needles. One part is soluble in the follow- 
ing parts of solvents : cold water, 1600 ; boiling water, 148 ; 
cold alcohol, 4280 ; boiling alcohol, 400 ; cold ether, 1700; 
boiling ether, 600 ; boiling chloroform, 105. It is insoluble 
in petroleum spirit. It dissolves in acid and alkaline solu- 
tions, especially in ammonium hydroxid, and is completely 
extracted from alkaline solution by chloroform. When the 
solution in ammonium hydroxid is mixed with silver nitrate 
and heated for a considerable time, a silver compound is pre- 
cipitated. 

W. E. Kunze has examined the methods for the separation 
of the alkaloids, and found all defective. In estimating the 
alkaloids of cacao previous removal of the fat is not advisable, 
as some alkaloid is extracted. Kunze recommends the fol- 
lowing process : The material is boiled for 30 minutes with 
normal sulfuric acid, filtered, and a large amount of a solu- 



CACAO AND CHOCOLATE 275 

tion of sodium phosphomolybdate in nitric acid added. The 
precipitate, which usually settles rapidly, is removed by filtra- 
tion after 24 hours, washed with dilute sulfuric acid, and at 
once decomposed by treatment with barium hydroxid solu- 
tion, the excess of barium hydroxid being removed by carbon 
dioxid. The liquid and precipitate are evaporated to dryness 
and the residue extracted with boiling chloroform. The 
chloroform solution, on evaporation, leaves the alkaloids 
almost perfectly pure, and containing only a trace of ash. 

Separation of the alkaloids may be effected by converting 
the theobromin into a silver compound. The mixture of alka- 
loids is dissolved in ammonium hydroxid, a considerable ex- 
cess of nitrate is added, the solution boiled down to small bulk, 
and until all free ammonia is expelled. The crystalline pre- 
cipitate is collected, washed with boiling water, ignited, and 
the metallic silver weighed. The process may be made vol- 
umetric by titrating the excess of silver in the filtrate by 
Volhard's method. In the latter case the alkaloids may be 
readily isolated from the precipitate and the filtrate (after titra- 
tion), and tested as to their purity, identity, etc. The sepa- 
ration of caffein from theobromin by means of benzene is 
imperfect. 3 3 

The proportions of theobromin given by different observers 
differ greatly, owing in part to the methods employed. The 
average of the reported data is about 1.5 per cent. Kunze 
found by his method 1.2 per cent, total alkaloids. Weigmann 
obtained the following results : 

BEANS. HUSKS. 

Theobromin, percent, 1.26 0.50 

Cafiein, per cent., 0.17 0.15 

Sodium phosphomolybdate solution is prepared as follows : 
A warm solution of disodium hydrogen phosphate is acidu- 
lated with nitric acid and an excess of ammonium molybdate 
solution added. The precipitate is washed with water con- 



2/6 FOOD ANALYSIS 

taining nitric acid and dissolved in a hot solution of sodium 
carbonate. The liquid is evaporated to dry ness, the residue 
ignited at a low red heat until all ammonium is volatilized, 
moistened with nitric acid, and again ignited. I gram of the 
product is dissolved in 10 c.c. of water and I c.c. of nitric 
acid (sp. gr. 1.42) added. 

According to Stutzer, the nitrogenous constituents of cacao 
are of three types : 

1. Non-proteids, not precipitated by copper hydroxid 
(theobromin, caffein, and amido-compounds). 

2. Digestible albumin, insoluble in pure water in presence 
of copper hydroxid, but soluble when treated successively 
with acid gastric juice and alkaline pancreatic extract. 

3. Insoluble and indigestible nitrogenous matter. 

He gives analyses of three samples, showing the relative 
proportion of these forms : 

Nitrogen as soluble compounds, in- 
cluding that of alkaloids, . . .31.43 26.95 29.79 
Nitrogen as digestible albumin, . .33.34 40.61 22.62 
Nitrogen as indigestible matter, . . 35.33 32.44 47.83 



100.00 100.00 



Fat. The so-called cacao-butter is a yellowish-white solid, 
of pleasant odor, melting between 28 and 30. Further 
data in regard to it are given in connection with the fats. 

Cacao-red. This appears to be an oxidation product of the 
tannin. It does not exist as such in the cacao. It may be 
prepared from the aqueous or alcoholic decoction by pre- 
cipitating with lead acetate and decomposing the washed 
precipitate with hydrogen sulfid. The colorless liquid so 
obtained becomes red on evaporation. Cacao-red is slightly 
soluble in cold water, much more so in hot. 

Gum. About 2 per cent, of gum is present. It is pre- 
cipitated by alcohol from the watery extract of the fat-free 
cacao. It resembles gum arabic, but is dextrorotatory. 



CACAO AND CHOCOLATE 



277 



Tartaric Acid. This has been found to be present to the 
extent of several per cent. Weigmann estimates it by neu- 
tralizing the aqueous extract with ammonium hydroxid, add- 
ing calcium chlorid, redissolving the precipitate in hydro- 
chloric acid, and reprecipitating with sodium hydroxid. From 
4.34 to 5.82 per cent, of tartaric acid were found in this way. 

Starch. The granules of cacao-starch are very small ; 
their microscopic characters are given on page 95. Samples 
of cacao examined by E. E. Ewell contained from 5.78 to 
15.13 per cent, of starch. 

Mineral Matter. The ash of cacao consists largely of 
phosphates with but little chlorids and carbonates. The 
amount of magnesium exceeds notably that of the calcium. 
The proportion of sodium is small, and traces of copper are 
usually present. The following are some analyses. The 
proportion of husk ranges from 8 to 1 5 per cent. : 

ANALYSES BY J. BELL 





PER 100 OF 
CACAO. 


PER loo OF ASH. 


Water. 


Ash (on 
Dry 
Sub- 
stance). 


Soluble 
in 
Water. 


Insol. 
in 
Acid. 


Phos- 
phoric 
Oxid. 


Carbon 
Dioxid. 


Potas- 
sium 
Oxid. 


Fer- 
rous 
Oxid. 


Guayaquil nibs (i. 
f., husked), . . 


5.06 


3.63 


56.3 


None 


49-4 


0.69 


23-4 


0.21 


Surinam nibs, . . 


4-55 


2.90 


43-5 


None 


378 


3-31 


28.0 


0.38 


Grenada nibs, . . 


5.71 


2.82 


48.6 


None 


39-2 


2.92 


27.6 


0.15 


Finest Trinidad 
nibs, .... 


4-47 


2.75 


46.6 


None 


36.2 


4.19 


29-3 


O.I I 


Finest Trinidad 
husks, .... 


10.19 


8.63 


54-9 


5-9* 


17.2 


10.8 


37-9 


0.63 



The important commercial cacao preparations are : 

Plain chocolate, which consists of the roasted and husked 



2 7 8 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



seeds, ground to a paste while quite hot and pressed into cakes. 
This is known in Europe as "cacao masse." 



ANALYSES BY H. WEIGMANN 





Mois- 

TURK. 


NlTRO- 
GKNOt'S 

MATTER. 


THEO- 

BROMIN. 


FAT. 


STARCH. 


OTHER 
NITRO- 
GEN-FREE 
MATTKR. 


FIBER. 


ASH. 


Raw,unhusked, 


7-93 


14.19 


I 49 


45-57 


5-85 


17.07 


4.78 


4.61 


Roasted, " 


6.79 


14.13 


1.58 


46.19 


6.06 


18.04 


4-63 


4.16 


" husked 


















(nibs), . . . 


5.58 


I4.I3 


1-55 


50.09 


8. 77 


I3-9I 


3-93 


3-59 


Cacao masse, 


















(plain choco- 
late), ... 


4.16 


13-97 


1-56 


53-03 


9.02 


12.79 


3-40 


3-63 


Husks (contained 


















4.06 per cent, 
sand), .... 


H-73 


13-95 


0-73 


4.66 


43-29 


16.02 


10.71 



Szveet chocolate is the mixture of the above with 50 per cent, 
or more of sugar, and flavoring materials, such as spices and 
vanilla. 

Cacao essence, or cacao powder, is prepared by removing 
from the husked and roasted bean, by means of heat and 
pressure, a portion (usually about one-half) of the fat. 

The so-called soluble " cocoas " are prepared by treating the 
above with ammonium hydroxid, sodium carbonate, or steam 
to destroy the cellular structure, to convert the proteids into 
more soluble modifications, but more especially to emulsify 
the fat so that it may not come to the surface when the 
decoction is made. The treatment with sodium carbonate is 
practised by the Dutch manufacturers. The term soluble in 
connection with such preparations is not justified, as is evident 
from the following analyses made by Stutzer : 

I. Made from a mixture of Ariba, Machala, and Bahia 
cacao without the use of chemicals. 



CACAO AND CHOCOLATE 279 

II. Dutch cacao. 

Ill and IV. German cacao prepared, in Stutzer's opinion, 
by the use of ammonium hydroxid. 

I. II. III. IV. 

Water, 4.30 3.83 6.56 5.41 

Fat 27.83 30.51 27.34 33.85 

NUrogen-free extract,' '.I'.'.'.'. jt] 37-48 39.99 36.06 

Total nitrogenous substances (I ), 20.84 19.88 20.93 I 9- 2 5 

Ash (2), 5.05 8.30 5 18 5.43 

(1) Total nitrogen 3.68 3.30 3.95 3.57 

Theobromin, 1.92 1.73 1.98 1. 80 

Ammonia 0.06 0.03 0.46 0.33 

Amido-compounds, 1.43 1.25 0.31 I. ;i 

Digestible albumin, . . . 10.25 7-^ 10.50 7.81 

Indigestible nitrogenous matters, . 7.18 9.19 7.68 8.00 

Containing nitrogen, 1.15 1.47 1.23 1.28 

Proportion of total nitrogen indi- 
gestible, 31.2 44.5 32.2 35.8 

(2) Phosphoric oxid, 1.85 2.52 2.14 2.05 

" " soluble in water, . 1.43 0.50 0.74 0.77 

Ash soluble in water, 3.76 4.76 2.86 2.76 



Stutzer considers that the addition of alkalies is unneces- 
sary, since the best results -may be had from the untreated 
bean, if the preparation and roasting be properly conducted. 

ADULTERATIONS. The finest grades of cacao are made 
from the cotyledons only. The husks are occasionally added 
to the cheaper grades of chocolate. On account of the large 
proportion of fat in cacao (usually about 50 per cent.), it is 
impossible to prepare from it a permanent powder unless a 
part of the fat be removed or a diluent such as starch or 
sugar be added. In many cases more than half of the fat is 
allowed to remain. The common adulterants of cacao pow- 
der are sugar, starches, and flours. The color of the diluted 
material may be improved by the addition of ferruginous 
mixture or artificial colors. Copper sulfate, potassium chro- 
mate, and nickel sulfate are said to have been added. Choc- 
olate is often adulterated with ground peanuts, almond cake, 
and similar material. In some cases a portion of the fat is 



28O FOOD ANALYSIS 

removed and foreign fat substituted. Finely divided tin is 
stated to have been added in order to impart a metallic luster. 

ANALYTIC METHODS. A careful examination under the 
microscope should be made in order to determine the pres- 
ence of husks, foreign starches, peanut, almond, or other ad- 
ditions. A determination of the ash, and of its solubility and 
alkalinity, should be made. The ash of pure cacao is white, 
and usually under 4 per cent., if prepared from the cotyledons 
only. A higher proportion may point to the presence of 
husks, added mineral matter, or the use of alkali in the 
manufacture. (See tables, pp. 278 and 279.) The moisture 
and fat should be determined as on pages 36 and 50. The 
extraction of the fat should be performed by means of petro- 
leum spirit. The material extracted may be examined for 
foreign fats as described on page 183. In the case of cacao 
prepared by the use of alkali an appreciable amount of soap 
will be present, which will remain undissolved by the petro- 
leum spirit. It may be separated by treating the residue 
with alcohol acidified with hydrochloric acid, evaporating to 
dryness, and shaking with water and ether. The fatty acids 
are recovered from the ether by evaporation. 

The determination of the theobromin and caffein may be 
made as described on page 274. The determination of total 
nitrogen is easier. The following analyses by A. Bitteryst 
show the use of such determination : 

PERCENTAGE OF PROTEIDS. 

Pure chocolate, 9.10 

" cacao, 17-57 

Peanuts, 28.18 

Peanut-cake, 46.90 

Pure chocolate -f I o per cent, of peanuts, I2 -53 

" " + Io " peanut-cake, 15- 70 

" cacao -j- 10 " " 21.18 

Sugar. Exact determinations of sugar are difficult, but 
approximations quite sufficient for practical purposes may be 
made by the polarimeter. The gum introduces an error 



CACAO AND CHOCOLATE 28 I 

ranging from 0.3 to 2.0 per cent. To avoid interference from 
starch, the solution must be made with cold water. E. E. 
Ewell has found that it is necessary to use about 40 c.c. of 
water for each gram of sample. The following process, 
described by Ewell, 34 is adapted to a polarimeter requiring 
a concentration of 26.048 grams: 13.024 grams of material 
are triturated with alcohol to a smooth paste, which is trans- 
ferred to a 500 c.c. flask, diluted with 400 to 450 c.c. of 
water, and shaken occasionally during four hours ; after which 
IO c.c. of a saturated solution of lead acetate are added, the 
volume brought to 500 c.c., and allowed to stand for one hour, 
with occasional shaking. The solution is filtered and the 
polarimetric reading taken in a 4-decimeter tube. Under 
these conditions the reading is reduced to one-fifth, and if the 
instrument is graduated in ordinary sugar degrees the read- 
ing, multiplied by 5, will give results close enough, since 
there is, as noted above, an indefinite error from the gum in 
solution. Ewell prefers to allow for the volume of the pre- 
cipitate, and has given a formula which, reduced to a simpler 
form than as he presents it, is : 

Percentage of sugar = 4.88 R -f- 0.0065 R 2 ; R being the observed reading. 

Starch. This is determined by the method given on page 
97, the sugar being first removed by cold water. 

Crude Fiber. This is determined as on page 46. Little 
reliance can be placed upon many published figures for this 
datum, on account of the differences in methods employed. 

As a means of detecting the use of alkalies in the manu- 
facture of cacao the following data may be determined : 
Total ash, water-soluble ash, total phosphate and that in the 
cold water solution, expressed as phosphoric oxid. The 
relative proportions of these constituents in the ash of normal 
cacao and of cacao treated with fixed alkalies and ammonia 
are given in the table on page 279. Additional evidence of the 
use of ammonia is obtained by distillation of the sample with 



282 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



magnesia and determination of the ammonia in the distillate. 
If this process yields more than o. I per cent, of nitrogen in 
the form of ammonia, Stutzer considers the result certain 
evidence of the use of ammonia or ammonium salts in the 
manufacture. 

The following table gives some of the results obtained by 
E. E Ewell from an examination of cacao preparations as 
found in the American market : 

















N 
















- ACID 




FOREIGN 
STARCHES. 


WATER 


FAT. 


CANE- 
SUGAR 

BY 


CRUDE 
FIBER. 


TOTAL 
ASH. 


10 
REQ. TO 
NEU- 

TR AL~ 










POLAR. 






IZE 
















ASH OF 
















i GRAM. 


Plain Chocolates : 




p. c. 


p. c. 


p. c. 


p. c. 


p. c. 


c.c. 


Chocolate, . . 


None. 


3-18 


50.84 





2.91 


3-44 


2-55 




Much wheat 
















starch. 


3-09 


49.81 





2.63 


3.08 


2.12 




Much wheat 
















flour. 


3-82 


49.40 




2.74 


3-18 


2.30 


Sweet Chocolates : 
















"Instantaneous 
















Chocolate,' ' . 


None. 


1.88 


24.04 


53 


1.32 


1.69 


1-45 


" Powdered,' ' . 


None. 


i-55 


17-73 


65 


0.94 


1. 21 


0.75 


" Princess," . . 


None. 


1.46 


25-74 


55 


I.I4 


1-54 


0.92 


"Vanilla," . . 


None. 


0.65 


22.49 


57 


1.23 


1.52 


1. 00 


Cocoas and Bromas: 
















Breakfast Cocoa, 


None. 




25-83 




4-23 


5-05 


3.65 


Cocoa Extract, . 


None. 




30-95 




3-8 9 


4.24 


2.9 


Dutch Cocoa, . 


None. 





31.48 




3-76 


6.06 


4.8 


Breakfast Cocoa, 


Wheat flour 
















and arrow- 
















root. 





35.85 




3.08 


3-84 


2.6 


Prepared Cocoa, 


Much arrow- 
















root. 




25.94 


26 


I 51 


3-15 


i-3 



VINEGAR 283 



CONDIMENTS AND SPICES 

VINEGAR 

Vinegar is the acid liquid resulting from the acetous fer- 
mentation of various decoctions or fruit juices. Acetic acid 
is the prominent constituent, but small amounts of alcohol, 
aldehyde, and ethyl acetate are usually present, together with 
extractive matters depending upon the nature of the material 
used. Very dilute solutions of acetic acid do not keep well, 
and the presence of a little alcohol is regarded as desirable, 
improving the flavor and keeping qualities. Some mineral 
acid was formerly thought to be necessary as a preservative. 
Such addition is not needed, and is now sometimes practised 
as an adulteration. Sulfuric acid is usually employed, rarely 
hydrochloric. 

Vinegar is often made by spontaneous fermentation, but 
malt and spirit vinegars are mostly made by passing a dilute 
alcohol over beech-shavings- or birch-twigs, impregnated with 
the acetic ferment, principally Mycodcrma aceti, a regulated 
supply of air being maintained at the same time. The con- 
version of the alcohol into acetic acid takes place rapidly. 

Wine, cider, malt, and spirit vinegar are the chief forms. 

]\"iiic Vinegar. That from white wine is most esteemed. 
It usually contains between 5 and 10 per cent, of acetic acid, 
1.5 and 3 per cent, of solids, and 0.2 and O.6 per cent, of ash. 
The extract contains from 0.25 to 0.5 per cent, of acid potas- 
sium tartrate. The following analyses of true vinegar result- 
ing from four months' fermentation are by K. Farnsteiner : 



i. a. 3- 

Alcohol, 3.75 o.oo 1.23 

Acid, 3.56 7.60 6.OO 

Solids, 2.03 3.64 2.56 

Ash 0.28 0.30 0.34 

Alkalinity of ash in c.c. of normal alkali, 1.78 2.90 2.85 



284 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



Small amounts of sugar, glycerol, and tartaric acid are pres- 
ent in each sample. 

In the United States, spirit vinegar made from the dilute 
alcohol called " low wine " is commonly sold as white wine 
vinegar. 

Cider vinegar is a brownish liquid containing about 4 per 
cent, of acetic acid and 2 per cent, of solid matter which has 
the odor and taste of apples. It is frequently imitated by 
spirit vinegar or diluted acetic acid colored with caramel. G. 
S. Cox and A. W. Smith have published analyses of commer- 
cial cider vinegars. The former found in 20 samples a per- 
centage range of acidity from 2.3 to 8.4, solids 1.34 to 4, ash 
0.25 to 0.52. Smith examined 51 samples, 22 of which were 
genuine, 27 diluted with water or spirit vinegar, one made from 
dried apples and glucose, and one made from cider and grape- 
juice. The following table shows the differences in important 
data : 



GRAMS PER 
100 GRAMS OF VINEGAR : 



MILLIGRAMS PER 
too GRAMS OF VINEGAR: 



_ A j Phosphoric Phosphoric 
- Acld Oxid in Oxid ! - 





-_^^ - 




Required 


Soluble 


Insoluble 


Acid. 


Solids. 


AsrT. 


for Ash. 


Ash. 


Ash. 


Maximum, . . 7.61 


4-45 


0.51 


55-2 


22.7 


19.4 


Minimum, . . . 3.24 


2.OO 


0.31 


28.4 


136 


4-2 


Average, . . . 4.46 


2.83 


o-39 


38.8 


I 9 .I 


10. 1 


Cider vinegar di- 












luted with 












water or 












spirit vine- 












gar: 












Maximum, . 4.83 


3-41 


0-53 


29.6 


15-2 


20.2 


Minimum, . 3.01 


I.I 9 


0.14 


M 


o.oo 


3-o 


Average, . . 4.00 


2.03 


0.24 


18.4 


5-2 


5-7 


Sample from 












dried apples 












and glucose, . 4.29 


3.89 


0.25 


21. 






Sample from 












cider and 












grape-juice, . 4.54 


2.77 


0.30 


34-o 







Smith finds that the ash of cider vinegar begins to melt and 
volatilize at a comparatively low temperature and gives to 



VINEGAR 285 

flame the potassium color unobscured by that of sodium. It 
is low in chlorids and sulfates and high in carbonates and 
phosphates ; about two-thirds of the phosphates are soluble 
in water. In the ash of other vinegars a much lower propor- 
tion of phosphates is soluble in water. The dilution of vine- 
gar by natural water will be apt to reduce the soluble matter 
by the formation of calcium and magnesium phosphates. 
Manufacturers occasionally add potassium phosphate to di- 
luted cider vinegars to correct deficiency. 

Pure cider vinegar gives no polarimetric rotation after clari- 
fication with lead acetate. The addition of this reagent de- 
colorizes the liquid, producing a flocculent brownish precipi- 
tate. 

Spirit Vinegar. This is made by distilling a fermented 
.mash of grain so as to obtain a very dilute alcohol, techni- 
cally called " low wine," which is converted without rectifica- 
tion or concentration into vinegar by the " quick " method 
above described. Spirit vinegar is often colored with cara- 
mel to simulate cider or wine vinegar. Pure spirit vinegar 
on evaporation leaves but a small amount of solids and a 
trace of ash. The following is a summary of the results 
obtained by A. VV. Smith in the examination of 65 samples 
of spirit vinegar : 

AVERAGE. 

Acetic acid 2.87 to 5.99 3.84 

Total solids, 0.14 " 0.78 0.38 

Ash o.oi " 0.15 0.06 

The ash had a very slight alkalinity and only traces ot 
phosphates. 

Malt Vinegar. This is characterized by a comparatively 
large amount of nitrogenous matter. The following table 
exhibits the usual composition as contrasted with vinegar 
prepared from glucose and sucrose. The water used in the 
preparation of the mash may have much influence on the com- 



286 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



position of the ash. According to Sykes, various yeast-foods 
containing phosphates are often added to the wort with a view 
to stimulate the yeast and secure a higher production of 
alcohol. 



ANALYST, 


A. W. SMITH. 


A H ALLEN 








CHARACTER OF 
VINEGAR. 


MALT, 
4 SAMPLES. 


MALT, 
4 SAMPLES. 


CHIEFLY FROM RICE 
HYDROLYZED BY 
SULFURIC ACID. 


FROM 
SUGAR. 


Per 100 parts of vinegar : 


Per Cent. 


Grams per 
100 c.c. 


Grams per loo c.c. 


Gms. per 

100 C.C. 


Acetic acid, .... 


4.01 to 5.90 


4.86 to 6.61 


5.58 


5.70 


4.92 


Total solids, . . . 


1.75 to 2.67 


2.31 to 3.96 


2.98 


2.09 


I. 7 6 


Ash 


0. 20 to 0.28 


O.34. to O CC 


O. 7O 


O.4. 7 


o 278 


" alkalinity, 


O.O2 to O.O26 


0.091 to 0.118 


0.13 






Phosphoric oxid, . . 


0.09 to 0.125 


0.057 to 0093 


0.017 


O.O24 


0.016 


Nitrogen, .... 


Not del. 


0.095 to o.i 20 


0.104 


O.O62 


0.016 


" Original solids," . 


7.76 to II. 06 


9.60 to 12 73 


"35 


10.64 


10.02 



A form of malt vinegar often sold is made by acidifying 
dilute alcohol by the quick process and coloring the liquid by 
steeping in it a strongly scorched malt. This form contains 
less phosphates and solid matter than the true malt vinegar. 
Another method is the use of so-called "malt acid," "vine- 
gar extract," or "vinegar essence," obtained by fermenting 
potato spirit with the Mycodcrma aceti, neutralizing the acetic 
acid with lime, and distilling the resulting calcium acetate with 
an acid. This product may contain from 40 to 90 per cent, 
of acetic acid. The fermented potato spirit, containing as 
much as 13 per cent, of acetic acid, is also sold under the 
name " Essig sprit" or "spirit vinegar." The following 
analyses are due to A. H. Allen and C. G. Moor : 



VINEGAR 



28 7 





" Essie 
SPRIT." 


" MALT ACID." 




Gr 
11.26 
0.64 
0.06 


ims per 100 < 
88.02 
2.77 
0.15 


.c. 
45-4 
12.14 
0.18 

0.017 
0.113 
0.074 


Total solids ... 


Ash, 


Alkalinity of ash as potassium oxid . . . 




Trace 
0.014 




Sulfuric acid (free) . 







Commercial vinegars are made from these products by 
dilution with water and adding coloring and flavoring 
materials. According to Allen and Moor, it is the practice 
of some manufacturers to distil a portion of the product, 
reserve the stronger portion of the distillate for sale as distilled 
vinegar, and add the weaker fractions to some of the undis- 
tilled article. Distilled malt vinegar contains appreciable 
amounts of alcohol, ethyl acetate, furfural, and aldehyde, and 
has a highly characteristic taste and odor. 

" Original Solids." O. Hehner has called attention to the 
fact that additional information as to the nature of a vinegar 
may be obtained by calculating the weight of materials prior 
to fermentation. 90 parts of glucose should produce 60 
parts of acetic acid ; therefore the amount of acetic acid in 
the sample, multiplied by 1.5 and added to the solids, will 
give the figure termed by Hehner " original solids." The 
loss of acetic acid during fermentation may, however, be as 
much as 50 per cent, and the figure, therefore, will be only 
an approximation, but it is often instructive. The following 
table shows the method applied to the twenty-two samples 
of cider vinegar given on page 284. 



288 FOOD ANALYSIS 

MILLIGRAMS OF 

MILLIGRAMS OF PHOSPHORIC OXID 
SOLIDS + 1.5 ASH PER 100 GRAMS PER 100 GRAMS 
ACKTIC ACID. ORIGINAL SOLID. OF O. S. 

Maximum, . . . 14.38 6.09 3.77 

Minimum, .... 7.63 2 -73 1.72 

Average, 9.65 4.11 3.10 

ANALYTIC METHODS. 

Acetic Acid. This may be determined with sufficient accur- 
acy by diluting 5 c.c. of the vinegar with 50 c.c. of water 
and titrating with standard alkali, using phenolphthalein as 
indicator. 

Total Solids. 5 c.c. of the vinegar are evaporated to con- 
stant weight in a platinum dish in the water-oven or on a 
water-bath. 

Ask. A. W. Smith makes the following suggestions for 
its examination and determination : 10 grams of the sample 
should be evaporated and ashed by small portions (not more 
than 10 c.c.) at not above a low red heat. The residue is 
dissolved and tested qualitatively by the flame-test and for 
chlorids and sulfates. Unless the latter are present in excess 
of the amount usually found in pure samples, they need not 
be determined quantitatively. For alkalinity of the ash and 
proportion of phosphates, 25 grams of the sample are dried 
and burned, the ash extracted repeatedly with hot water, and 
the aqueous solution titrated with standard acid, using methyl- 
orange as indicator. The un dissolved residue is treated with 
nitric acid, the solution partially neutralized, and the phos- 
phates in each solution determined. 

Nitrogen. 50 c.c. are evaporated to small bulk and treated 
by the Kjeldahl-Gunning method. 

Mineral Acid. If the ash be alkaline, no mineral acid can 
have been present except nitric acid ; but if neutral, A. Ash- 
by's test should be applied. A drop of solution of logwood 
extract in water (0.5 gram to 100 c.c.) is dried on a porcelain 
plate, a drop of the vinegar added, and again dried. The 



VINEGAR 289 

residue from pure vinegar will be yellow, but will be red if min- 
eral acid be present. If the proportion of acid be small, the 
red color is destroyed by the addition of water, but is restored 
on evaporation, except in the case of nitric acid, which does 
not appear to be used for adulteration. 

The amount of free mineral acid is determined by O. Heh- 
ner's method as follows : 50 c.c. of the sample are mixed 
with a measured amount of decinormal alkali, preferably less 
than sufficient to neutralize all the acid, but rather more than 
sufficient to neutralize the mineral and fixed organic acids 
present. The mixture is evaporated to dryness, ashed at a 
low red heat, and titrated with standard acid. In the absence 
of mineral acid, the ash will have an alkalinity equal to the 
standard alkali added. Any deficiency in alkalinity will be 
due to the presence of mineral acid. 

Vinegar containing sulfurfc acid usually leaves a charred 
.residue on evaporation in the water-bath. For samples con- 
taining but little organic solids the test may be made applicable 
by adding a little sucrose. ulfuric acid as distinguished from 
sulfate may be determined by A. H. Allen's method as follows : 
100 c.c. of the vinegar are evaporated to 10 c.c., and to the 
colcj concentrated liquid 50 c.c. of alcohol are added. Sulfates 
are precipitated, but sulfuric acid remains in solution. The 
filtered liquid is diluted, the alcohol boiled off, and the sul- 
furic acid determined by precipitation with barium chlorid. 
In vinegar free from chlorids this process gives results in 
accordance with Hehner's process, but when chlorids are 
present the mineral acid found is deficient by the amount 
required to decompose the chlorids. This difficulty may be 
overcome by treating the sample with excess of solution of 
silver sulfate before evaporation, by which any free hydro- 
chloric acid will also be estimated as sulfuric acid. 

Caramel may be detected by the method given on page 1 30. 

Potassium acid tartrate, which occurs in true wine vinegar, 
25 



FOOD ANALYSIS 

may be detected by dissolving the solid residue in a little 
water, adding alcohol and stirring the mixture with a glass 
rod ; the tartrate will be deposited in crystals along the lines 
touched by the rods. 

Poisonous metals may be encountered, especially in vinegar 
containing free mineral acid. Arsenic may be detected by 
Reinsch's test (p. 71). Lead, copper, tin, and zinc may be 
tested for directly in light-colored vinegars, but in most cases 
it will be necessary to examine the ash in accordance with the 
methods given on page 69. 



SPICES 

Spices, being generally sold for household uses in finely 
powdered form, are very liable to adulteration, and much 
attention has been given the Mature and detection of the 
adulterants. Microscopic and chemical methods are needed, 
and successful application of these tests to samples of un- 
known origin can only be safely made after considerable 
experience with materials of known purity. Standards should 
be prepared from the unground material properly identified. 
The mounting, dissolving, and staining agents described, on 
page 35 should be employed. In some cases adulteration 
may be identified by form of starch granules, but this often 
requires great care and patience. 

More attention has been given to the chemistry and 
microscopy of pepper, on account of use of this spice and its 
frequent adulteration. Cream of tartar is classified as a 
spice in the grocery trade. 



PEPPER 

Pepper is the fruit of the Piper nigrum L., of the order 
Piperacea. Black pepper is the unripe fruit, dried in the 



PEPPER 

sun ; white pepper is obtained by soaking the ripe fruit in 
water and removing the husks by friction. 

Pepper contains alkaloid, piperin, an acrid resin, a volatile 
oil, starch, a small amount of nitrates, and the usual plant 
constituents. 

Piperin exists in a number of plants belonging to the Piper- 
acete. The proportion present in pepper ranges between 4 
and 8 per cent. Piperin forms colorless four-sided monoclinic 
prisms, melting at 128 and decomposing at a slightly higher 
temperature. It is insoluble in cold and but slightly soluble 
in hot water, dissolves in alcohol, forming a neutral solution 
of pungent taste, is freely soluble in chloroform, benzene, and 
petroleum spirit, but less so in ether. It is extracted even 
from acid solutions by chloroform. Boiled with strong alkali, 
it is converted into piperidin and a piperate. 

Piperidin is a colorless liquid with an odor recalling both 
ammonium hydroxid and pepper. It boils at 106, is strongly 
basic, and may be estimated by titration with standard acid, 
using methyl-orange as indicator. Small proportions are 
found in pepper. According to Johnstone, black pepper con- 
tains from 0.39 to 0.77 per cent, and white pepper from 0.21 
to 0.42 per cent. 

The resin of pepper is dark green and has a hot pungent 
taste. It is soluble in alcohol, ether, and sodium hydroxid 
solution, and also in water in the presence of the other con- 
stituents of pepper. 

The volatile oil of pepper is a terpene having a boiling- 
point of 167-! 70. It has the smell of pepper, but not its 
pungency. It is usually present to the extent of about I per 
cent. 

Starch. Pepper-starch is in minute granules, not more 
than 0.005 mm - m diameter, round or polygonal, and often 
in clusters. Under a high power they show a central nucleus 
or vesicle. 



292 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



The microscopic appearance of ground pepper is shown in 
the annexed cut, from a drawing by Moeller. 35 

Adulteration of Pepper. The following are some of the 
adulterants which may be looked for in pepper : Pepper 



am 



ep 



ist--- 




as 



FIG. 49. 

A, Starch granules (X 600) ; am, cell containing starch ; /, parenchyma with 
resin ; bf, bast fibers ; bp, bast parenchyma ; sp, spiral vessels ; ep, epider- 
mis; ast, stony parenchyma; as and it, seed membrane in two layers; 
ist, inner stone-cell layer with horseshoe-shaped cells. The structures ist, 
as, and is are more characteristic, especially the two latter, consisting of a 
light and a dark layer. All (except A, as above) X Io - 

husks, long-pepper, wheat, buckwheat, cayenne pepper, mus- 
tard husks, ground olive stones (poivrette or pepperette), 
almond and coconut shells (often roasted or charred), Egyp- 
tian corn, spent ginger, and coriander seed. Of mineral 



I'KPPKR 293 

additions, sand, clay, brick dust, chalk, barium sulfate, and 
lead chromate arc known to have been used. 

In the examination of pepper, considerable reliance must 
be placed upon the microscopic characters. Numerous chemi- 
cal examinations have been made, but the results in many 
cases have been conflicting, and the uncertainty has been 
increased by the fact that, until quite recently, hardly any two 
workers have employed the same methods. 

The chemical examination should be directed especially to 
the determination of moisture, ash, ether-extract, and crude 
fiber. The alcohol and water-extract have been shown to be 
valueless in this connection. 

Moisture. This is determined as on page 38. The drying 
in hydrogen may require to be continued 8 hours before 
constant weight is attained. The loss in weight will represent 
a small amount' of volatile oil as well as water. 

Ether-extract. This will contain piperin, resin, and some 
volatile oil, and for the purpose of detecting adulteration is 
more convenient and satisfactory than the determination ol 
piperin alone. If desired, the piperin may be determined as 
follows : The mixture of piperin and resin obtained by extrac- 
tion is treated with sodium hydroxid, by which the resin is 
dissolved ; the residue is dissolved in alcohol, the solution 
filtered, evaporated, and' the residue (piperin) weighed. An- 
other method is to mix a weighed portion of the powdered 
pepper with slaked lime and water, dry at 100, and thoroughly 
extract with ether. The residue left on the evaporation of 
the ether is purified by solution in alcohol, filtration, and 
crystallization. 

The proportion of ether-extract is usually not less than 7 per 
cent., but may fall below this figure even in pure peppers. 
(See results page 296.) 

Crude Fiber. This should be determined on the ether- 
extracted material as described on page 46. C. Richardson's 



294 FOOD ANALYSIS 

figures and those of Winton in the following table were 
obtained in this way. Those ofStpkes were made without 
previous exhaustion with ether^Tieisch reported " cellulose," 
but the method of determination is not stated. Using the 
method as recommended by the A. O. A. C., it is probable 
that pepper will not yield more than 16 per cent, of fiber. 

. ANALYST, C. RICHARDSON. WINTON. 7*-. STOKES. HEISCH. 

^ ^'TBlack pepper, . 8.0 ton. o 8.571015.41 21.61026.3 11.51027.8 

White pepper, . .4.110 8.0 3.3210 4.16 12.71013.8 3.4 to 6.7 

Long pepper, . . . . 7.38 2001022.3 1.141012.9 
Pepper shells or 

dust, 22.8 

Olive stones, . . . . . . 62.21064.2 61.91068.8 

Ash. In unadulterated black pepper the proportion of ash 
rarely exceeds 5 per cent.; over 65 per cent, may be taken as 
positive evidence of adulteration. The ash of white pepper 
should not exceed 3 per cent. If long pepper be present, the 
ash is apt to be high, for the reason given below. Stock has 
published the following determinations in genuine peppers : 

TELLICHERRY. SIAM. LAMPONG. PENANG. 

Ash, 1.05 1.45 2.20 2.75 

Fiber 4.86 . 4.43 4.90 5.06 

Calc. carb. in pepper, . o 58 0.62 o.8l 1.67 

" " " ash, . . 55.20 42.70 36.80 60.70 

TELLICHERRY PEPPER. UNHULLED. HULLED. 

Total ash, 4.02 1.64 

Fiber, 10.40 6.80 

Ratio of calcium (as carbonate) to ash, . 27.30 62.00 

It is thus seen that calcium compounds are more abundant 
in pepper. Excess of hulls results in a lowering of this ratio, 
but the proportion may be altered in samples that have been 
bleached or faced with mineral matter. Stock considers that 
in pure pepper the proportion of calcium carbonate to total 
ash is never greater than 60 per cent. 

It is advisable to shake up a portion of the pepper-sample 



PEPPER 295 

with chloroform in a tapped separator. The heavier mineral 
additions will sink, along with more or less husk, and may be 
removed by means of the tap and examined with the micro- 
scope and chemically. In this way it may be possible to 
distinguish between added mineral matter and that naturally 
present. 

From the results of examination of samples, either known 
to be pure, or in which the microscope failed to show any 
structure except that natural to pepper, A. L. Winton has 
proposed the following limits of composition for black 
pepper : 

Ether-extract dried at 100, . . not less than 6.5 per cent. 

Fiber not more than 16.0 " 

Ash " 6.5 " 

Sand, " " 2.0 " 

The methods of the A. O. A. C. were used in the examina- 
tions. The same observer has called attention to the fact 
that in the ether-extract of pure pepper the piperin invariably 
crystallizes out from the resin on cooling, but that when 
pepper is adulterated with material containing fat or oil, the 
latter may conceal the crystals or prevent their formation. 
Absence of piperin crystals is regarded as positive evidence of 
adulteration. If the fat or oil introduced by the adulterant 
increases the weight of the extract to the amount which is 
found in pure pepper, a determination of the nitrogen in the 
extract from 10 grams will often disclose its real nature. A 
sample of pure white pepper gave an extract containing 3.25 
percent, of nitrogen, and that from pure black pepper 2.64 
per cent. In adulterated samples the proportion will often 
fall considerably below 2 per cent. A sample of pepper shells 
(pepper dust) examined by Winton gave the following results : 
Water, 8.36 ; ether-extract, 6.98'; fiber, 22. 88 ; total ash, 9. 19 ; 
sand, 2.28. 

According to the figures given by the A. O. A. C., the 



296 FOOD ANALYSIS 

following limits of composition will probably include all good 
pepper. All samples having over 5 per cent, of ash or over 
1 1 per cent, of fiber are regarded with suspicion : 

BLACK PEPPER. WHITE PEPPER. 

Moisture, 8 to 12 12 to 15 

Ash, 2.75106.5 0.8102.9 

Starch (direct inversion by hydro- 
chloric acid), ....... 32 to 38 40 to 53 

Fiber, 9 to 16 4 to 8 

Albuminoids, 7 to 12 8 to 12 

Non-volatile ether extract, not less 

than, 6.5 7 to 8 

Starch. Many determinations have been made, but the 
methods used have been faulty and the indications often un- 
satisfactory. C. Heisch boiled the pepper for three hours 
with 10 per cent, hydrochloric acid and measured the optic 
activity of the resulting liquid. The gum and other soluble 
matters were found to cause a rotation equivalent to about I 
per cent, of starch. Lenz extracted the pepper with water, 
boiled the residue with hydrochloric acid, and determined the 
reducing sugar. All the samples of pepper examined gave 
a reducing sugar equivalent of over 50 per cent., while the 
adulterants, except those containing starch, gave under 30 per 
cent. Rottger, however, found Lampong pepper to give a 
" reducing-sugar equivalent " of only 41.7 per cent. Richard- 
son found the starch in 5 samples of black pepper to vary 
between 34 and 38 per cent, of the dry ash-free material. In 
two samples of white pepper the figures were about 40 and 43 
per cent, respectively. 

Substances other than starch are converted into sugar by 
the above processes, and more satisfactory conclusions might 
be drawn from an accurate determination of the starch by the 
diastase method, as described on page 97. 

Total Nitrogen. This is determined by the Kjeldahl-Gun- 
ning method. Richardson found 1.83 and 1.90 per cent, of 



PEPPER 297 

nitrogen in two samples of white pepper and from 1.57 to 
2. 10 per cent, in five samples of black pepper. 

Busse considers that the true value of a pepper is best 
shown by a quantitative estimation of the brown coloring- 
matter, which is only found in the husk. He proposes the 
following method : 5 grams of the sifted and dried pepper are 
treated with boiling absolute alcohol. . The extract, after 
being freed from alcohol in the drying oven, is ground up 
with a little water in a basin, and then washed into a flask with 
50 to 60 c.c. of boiling water. 25 c.c. of a 10 per cent, solu- 
tion of sodium hydroxid are added and the flask warmed on 
the water-bath for five hours, with frequent shaking. Con- 
centrated acetic acid is added until the liquid is only feebly 
alkaline, then 250 c.c. of water, and the flask well shaken. 
After 12 hours the liquid is filtered with the aid of a filter 
pump. To 50 c.c. of the filtrate concentrated acetic acid is 
added to acid reaction and 20 c.c. of a 10 per cent, solution 
of lead acetate in dilute acetic acid. After mixing, the liquid 
is diluted to 100 c.c. with water, well shaken, and filtered. 
10 c.c. of the filtrate are decomposed with 5 c.c. of sulfuric 
acid (1:3) and 30 c.c. of alcohol, the precipitate filtered after 
some time, washed with alcohol, the lead sulfate ignited in 
the usual manner, and the amount of lead calculated. The 
amount of lead in grams which has been obtained by the pro- 
cess from I gram of the dried pepper is designated as the 
" lead number." The following figures are given : 

LEAD NUMBER. 

White pepper 0.006 to 0.027 

Hlack pepper 0.054 to 0.075 

Husks, 0.129100.157 

Pepper dust, 0.109100.122 

Ground olive-stones, termed " poivrette " and " pepperette," 
have been much used to adulterate pepper. J. Campbell 
Brown, who first called attention to this use, has given the 
results of analysis of samples : 
26 



298 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



ASH. 



White pepperette, 1.33 

Black pepperette, 2.47 

Ground olive-stones, l.6l 

Ground almond-shells, 2.05 



FIBER. 
48.48 
47.69 

45-3* 
51.68 



None of the samples contained starch. 
Poivrette is a pale buff or cream-colored powder, which 
cannot be distinguished from the materials of genuine pepper 




FIG. 50. 

a, Cells associated with the vascular bundles, also some stone-cells ; ', inner layer 
of hard cells, with endothelium en ; p, cells from the fleshy portion of the 
fruit; ep, epidermis of the seed wall, with brown parenchyma showing 
through it ; ea, exterior layer of the endosperm. Some spiral vessels are also 
shown. X Io - 

by simple inspection. The particles are, however, tough and 
hard, and may be sometimes detected by crushing the sample 
between the teeth. Under the microscope the powder shows 
dense ligneous cells, some entire, with linear air-spaces, others 
torn and indistinct. Figure 50 shows some structures of olive 
seed and figure 5 I some structures of nut-shells. Both are 
from J. Moeller's work. 36 



PEPPER 



299 



By treatment with dilute sodium hydroxid solution and 
washing by decantation poivrette will appear yellow and 
pepper husk dark. Although poivrette contains no starch, it 
yields a reducing substance on boiling with hydrochloric acid. 

Bleached pepper husks are distinguished from poivrette by 
the microscopic appearance. An incomplete separation of 
poivrette may be effected by shaking the sample in a mixture 
of equal parts of glycerol and water, in which poivrette sinks 
more rapidly. 

Several color tests have been proposed. Gillet advises 
the use of a 7 per cent, alcoholic solution of iodin, which 
stains pepper brown and poiv- 
rette bright yellow. Chevreau 
uses a solution of anilin in three 
parts of acetic acid. Pure pep- 
per is almost unaffected, but 
poivrette becomes bright yel- 
low, and under the microscope 
the stone cells exhibit a pure 
gamboge yellow. Pabst uses a 
solution of dimethyl- 1 -4-di- 
amidobenzene, prepared as fol- 
lows : I gram of commercial di- 
methylanilin is mixed in a por- 
celain dish with 2 grams of strong pure hydrochloric acid, 10 
grams of broken ice are added, and, little by little, with con- 
stant stirring, a solution of 0.7 gram of sodium nitrate in loc.c. 
of water. After half an hour 3 to 4 grams of hydrochloric 
acid and 2 grams of tin-foil are added. The reduction is allowed 
to go on for an hour, when the tin in solution is precipitated 
by means of zinc. The decanted and filtered liquid is treated 
with a slight excess of sodium carbonate and the precipitate 
thus produced redissolved by the addition of acetic acid. I 
gram of sodium acid sulfite is added and the liquid diluted 




FIG. 51. 

a, Exterior layer; m, intermediate 
layer ; ', inner layer. 



3OO FOOD ANALYSIS 

to 200 c.c. In testing pepper, 2 c.c. of the solution are 
placed in a shallow dish and a pinch of the pepper sprinkled 
into it. In a few minutes the particles of olive stones become 
a brilliant carmine, while the grains of pepper remain unal- 
tered or become only faintly pink. If some water be now 
added, the heavy particles of olive stones fall to the bottom 
and are detected with ease. Ground nut-shells are colored in 
the same way. 

The phloroglucol-hydrochloric acid solution (page 35) pro- 
duces with olive stones and nut-shells a deep crimson stain 
which is very characteristic. The action is obtained promptly 
on moistening the sample with a few dYops of the reagent. 
Under a magnifying power of about 200 diameters the stained 
stone-cells are clearly seen. 

Dhoura Corn. This is a variety of sorghum, known in 
England as Turkish millet and in America as Egyptian corn. 
J. Campbell Brown has called attention to its use as an 
adulterant for pepper, and gives the following analyses and 
description. The samples examined contained 1 1 per cent, 
of moisture, and the figures given are percentages of the dry 
material : 

Ash, 1.31 1.69 

Starch, 73.20 73.20 

Cellulose 2.56 4.19 

Ether-extract, Ii.io 7.30 

Nitrogen, 1.82 1.78 

The material designated " cellulose " is probably crude 
fiber, obtained by using stronger solutions than directed in 
the A. O. A. C. method. The grain is roundish, oval, or some- 
what flattened, 2 to 5 mm. in diameter. The body is white and 
consists mainly of roundish starch granules, ranging from 
1.5 to 2.5 microns in diameter, showing a cross under polar- 
ized light, and larger granules, ranging from 12.5 to 32.5 



PEPPER 3OI 

microns in diameter, showing almost no cross. Some of 
the smaller granules have a star-like central hilum. 

Coriander Seed. Hanausek has called attention to the 
adulteration of pepper with ground coriander seed. The 
following peculiarities were observed under the microscope : 
(rt) bundles of corrugated bent fibrous cells ; (6) coarse 
parenchyma overlaid with narrow cells of a yellow color, with 
parallel walls ; (c) colorless cellular parenchyma firm in the 
walls and inclosing numerous crystalline rosettes and granules. 
The last two peculiarities were recognized as characteristic of 
a fruit of the order Umbellifera, the bundles of fibers, as well 
as the absence of vittae (oil cavities), pointing to coriander. 

Cayenne pepper is often added to adulterated pepper to 
restore pungency. It may be detected by the characteristic 
irritating vapor produced on heating some of the separated 
red particles. An alcoholic or ethereal solution also gives off 
such vapors. 

LONG PEPPER 

Long pepper is the fruit "of at least two species, formerly 
included under the genus Piper L. (Piperacece), now included 
under the genus Chavica Miq. It consists of long, nearly 
cylindrical spikes, covered with closely packed coalesced 
fruit, which are picked unripe. The Chavica officinarum, 
from Java, consists of spikes about 4 to 6 cm. in length. 
The spikes of the Chavica Roxbiirghii are about half as long. 
The latter is the more common form. 

Long pepper usually contains a considerable proportion of 
extraneous matter (clay and soil) embedded in the crevices 
and irregularities of the fruit. The outer husk and central 
woody stem are not readily removed, as in the case of black 
pepper, so that the proportion of woody fiber is larger than 
in ground black pepper of the same shade, but not so high as 
in most husky black pepper. Long pepper contains less 
piperin than most black pepper, and has a disagreeable odor 



ASH. 


IN HC1. 


INTO SUGAR. 


FIBER. 


EXTRACT. 


NlTROC 


8.91 


1.2 


44.04 


15-7 


5-5 


2.1 


8.98 


I.I 


49-34 


10.5 


4-9 


2.O 


9.61 


1-5 


4461 


10.7 


86 


2-3 


8.10 






7.28 


7.24 





3<D2 FOOD ANALYSIS 

and flavor ; in the ground state, it is not a recognized article 
of commerce. It is used whole in pickles and has been 
employed to adulterate ground black and white pepper. The 
following are some results of analysis of long pepper : 

STARCH AND- 
MATTKR CON- 
TOTAL ASH INSOL. VERTIBLE ETHER- 
ANALYST. 

J. C. Brown 
(i 


A. L. Winton 

Winton's figures were obtained by the A. O. A. C. methods. 

According to J. Campbell Brown, long pepper may be 
detected in ground pepper by the following characters : The 
presence of any considerable quantity of long pepper will 
impart to the ground material its peculiar slaty color ; but 
this is made much lighter by the practice of sifting out much 
of the darker or husky portions of the long pepper before 
mixing. Bleaching is also resorted to. The odor of the 
mixture when warmed is unmistakable, even if the quantity 
is comparatively moderate. The ether- or alcohol-extract 
also, if the solvent has been evaporated at a low temperature, 
yields the characteristic odor when warmed. 

Long pepper often introduces a considerable amount of 
mineral matter, especially sand and other material insoluble 
in acid. This fact is important in examining white peppers, in 
which the proportion of ash is low. Long pepper, even if the 
husk particles have been sifted out, will still introduce some 
sand, as well as spent bleach, if an attempt has been made to 
bleach it. 

The woody matter in ground long-pepper is always con- 
siderable. If the sample be spread out in a smooth thin layer 
on paper by means of an ivory paper-knife, pieces of fluffy 
woody fiber will be detected especially if the smooth thin 
layer be tapped from below. '"'ie-e pieces come from the 



CAYENNE PEPPER 303 

central part of the indurated catkin, which cannot be com- 
pletely ground fine, and are very characteristic. 

Some of the starch granules of long pepper are of larger 
size (0.005 mm.) than those of ordinary pepper, which are 
but slightly smaller than those of rice. 

According to Stokes, long pepper may be detected by 
placing a small portion on a microscope slide, adding a drop 
of glycerol, and examining under a power of about 50 diam- 
eters and crossed Nicols. If ordinary pepper only be pres- 
ent, the field will remain dark, but long pepper presents a 
luminous white appearance. The same is true of particles of 
rice. By treating the finely powdered material for 24 hours 
with chloral solution, it is rendered more transparent, and 
more satisfactory examination may be made. Rimmington 
recommends shaking the material several times, first with 
alcohol and then with water in a test-tube, and allowing to 
subside. Several strata are usually formed, the uppermost of 
which should be removed by means of a pipet and examined 
with a power of 250 diameters. Every particle will be seen 
clear and well defined and foreign bodies easily recognized. 



CAYENNE PEPPER 

Cayenne pepper is the ground pods of several species of 
Capsicum, usually C. annmim L. or C. fastigiatum Blum. The 
latter is official in the United States and British pharma- 
copeias. It is known in commerce as African or bird pepper, 
and in Great Britain as Guinea pepper and as chillies. The 
pods are bright scarlet and from 12 to 18 mm. in length. 
Those of C. annuum are much larger, 5 to 10 cm., yellowish 
or red, and, when dry, brownish ; in other respects they 
resemble those of C.fastigiatnm. 

Cayenne pepper is a brick-red powder of intensely pungent 
taste and characteristic odor. When heated, an acrid, irritat- 



304 FOOD ANALYSIS 

ing vapor is given off, the production of which maybe utilized 
as a test for the pepper, even on a minute quantity of the 
material. This is due to a crystalline body, " capsaicin." 
It melts at 59 and volatilizes at 115. It may be obtained 
by extracting the pepper with petroleum spirit, evaporating, 
and treating the dry extract with a dilute solution of potassium 
hydroxid. On saturating the liquid with carbon dioxid the 
capsaicin is precipitated in small crystals, readily soluble in 
alcohol, ether, amyl alcohol, and fixed oils, but less so in 
petroleum spirit and carbon disulfid. Capsaicin is more 
abundant in the pods than in the seeds, in which it exists 
dissolved in the fixed oil. It was discovered by Thresh, who 
found also a small quantity of an alkaloid resembling conin. 
The coloring-matter of cayenne pepper is but slightly soluble 
in alcohol, but dissolves readily in oils, carbon disulfid, 
petroleum spirit, ether, and chloroform. The odor is due, at 
least in part, to the presence of a minute quantity of volatile 
oil. 

Cayenne pepper contains no starch. 
The following are some published analyses : 
Fruit of Capsicum annuum, grown in Hungary (C. Richard- 
son) : 

WHOLE 
SEED. POD. FRUIT. 

Wateratioo , . 8.12 14-75 JI -94 

Albuminoids, 18.31 10.69 13-88 

Ether-extract, 28.54 5.48 15.26 

Nitrogen-free matter by difference, . 24.33 3^-73 32.63 

Crude fi er, 17-5 23.73 21.09 

Ash, 3.20 6.62 5.20 

Nitrogen, 2.93 1.71 2.22 



Average of several analyses by Blyth : 

Water-extract, 32.10 

Alcohol-extract, 25.79 

Benzene-extract, ' 20.00 

Ether-extract, 10.73 

Nitrogen, . . 2.04 

Ash, 5.69 



GINGER 305 

Two analyses by C. Richardson : 

ETHKR- ALBUM- NITRO- 

WATKR. ASH. EXTRACT. FIBKR. i NO IDS. CRN. 

Zanzibar, 2.35 9.06 26.99 1 6. 88 13. 13 2.10 

Crosse and Hlackwell, . .5.74 5.24 17.90 18.10 11.20 1.79 

Adulteration. The adulterant most commonly added to 
cayenne pepper is rice flour or similar material. Brick dust 
is also used. A. H. Allen found iron oxid, salt, and red 
lead. Starch-containing materials are readily detected by the 
microscope or by the iodin test. 

Results obtained at the Connecticut Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station indicate that pure cayenne pepper will contain 
not less than 16 per cent, of non-volatile ether-extract and 
between 4.5 and 8 per cent, of ash. 

The determinations of extract, ash, nitrogen, and moisture 
are made by the methods elsewhere given. Barium com- 
pounds have been found in some samples, and it has been al- 
leged that they are normal, but this seems to be a mistake. 

An artificial red, containing barium, is sometimes used to 
color inferior samples, and possibly barium sulfate has been 
added as a make-weight. 

The following data have been furnished as the range of 
composition in cayenne pepper. An ether-extract of less 
than 1 8 per cent, is suspicious : 

Moisture, 2 to 10 per cent. 

Ash, 5 to 10 

Fil>er, 16 to 18 

Nitrogen, 1.7 to 2.2 

Ktlier-extract, 1 6 to 30 

Alcohol-extract, 25 to 45 

GINGER 

Ginger is the rhizome of the Zingibcr officinale Roscoe, of 
the order ZixgiberactB. It exists in commerce in two 
forms, either with the outer integument present, called 



3C>6 FOOD ANALYSIS 

"coated ginger," or removed by scraping, as in " uncoated " 
or " scraped ginger." Scraped ginger is sometimes known 
as white ginger, and the same name is applied to samples that 
have been bleached either with sulfurous acid or hyposulfites. 
It is also sometimes coated with lime or gypsum. Jamaica 
ginger is preferred in the United States. It forms a lighter 
colored powder than the other varieties. Ginger contains a 
volatile oil, a pungent resin, starch, gum, and the usual plant 
constituents. The volatile oil has the odor but not the pun- 
gency of ginger. 

Adulteration. The most common adulteration of ginger is 
admixture with ginger that has been exhausted with dilute 
alcohol or water. For the detection of this, indications are 
furnished by the determination of the cold-water extract taken 
in conjunction with the soluble ash, as suggested by A. H. 
Allen and C. G. Moor. The following are some results ob- 
tained : 

JAMAICA. 
a. b. COCHIN. AFRICAN. 

Moisture 13.9 12.7 13.5 15.9 

Total ash, 3.9 3.2 3.8 3.6 

Soluble ash, .... 3.0 1.7 2.0 2.2 

Cold-water extract, . 14.4 12.2 8.6 10.8 

Neither the soluble ash nor the cold-water extract alone 
will afford a means of deciding as to the presence of exhausted 
ginger, but by a combination of the two data it is possible 
to arrive at a positive conclusion. Thus, there is no diffi- 
culty in ascertaining the presence of the adulterant when it 
has been added in such quantities as to bring the soluble ash 
down to about I per cent, and the cold-water extract to less 
than 8 per cent. Stock recommends also a determination of 
the amount of potassium. The following are some results 
obtained by him : 

SOLUBLE ASH. POTASSIUM. 

Pure ground ginger (94 samples), . 1.7 to 3.6 0.7 to 1.5 
Exhausted ginger 0.2 to 1.6 0.016100.7 



NUTMEG 



307 



Turmeric, flour, ground husks and shells, seeds, or seed- 
cake are possible adulterants of ginger, and are best detected 
by means of the microscope. The form of the starch granules 
present will often furnish valuable indications. 

Comparison with the following figures, obtained by the 
examination of pure samples, may also aid in some cases : 

RICHARDSON. 

Water, 9.0 to ll.o 

Ash 3.39 

Volatile oil, 0.96 

Fixed ether-extract, . . 2.29 

Starch, 46.16 

Crude fiber, 1.70 

Proteids, 5.25 



iRDSON. 


KONIG. 


II. 


10.17 to 12.08 


7.02 


3-79 


6.74 


2.54 


1.68 


2.70 


4.58 


3-44 


3-53 


53-33 


45-70 


54.60 


7.65 


4-36 


8.88 


10.85 


7.12 


8-34 



NUTMEG 

Nutmeg is the kernel of the seed of the Myristica fragrans 
Houttyn, of the order Myristicaccic. The fruit is gathered 
and dried by slow heating, after which the shell is removed 
and the inclosed nutmeg usually is coated by dipping in thick 
milk of lime. The nutmeg is oval or elliptical and about an 
inch in length. It has a strong, pleasant odor and warm, 
aromatic, somewhat bitter taste. Nutmegs contain between 
3 and 5 per cent, of volatile oil, considerable fat, starch, and 
proteids. The volatile oil is colorless or pale yellow and of 
specific gravity 0.92 to 0.95. It is freely soluble in alcohol 
and commences to boil at 160. It is dextrorotatory. 
According to Cloez, the most volatile portion is a terpene and 
is levorotatory. There is present also myristicol, dextro- 
rotatory and boiling at 224. On standing, myristic acid 
sometimes separates from the volatile oil. 

Adulteration. Nutmeg is little subject to adulteration, 
being almost exclusively sold unground. Artificial nutmegs, 
containing some nutmeg oil, are said to have been prepared 
from starchy or mineral matter, but such imitation would 



308 FOOD ANALYSIS 

readily be detected by the appearance of the cross-section 
compared with that of a genuine sample. 

The following are the results of some analyses by Richard- 
son : 

FIXED ETHER- 
DKSCRIPTION. WATER. ASH. VOL. OIL. EXTRACT. FIBER. NITROGEN. 

Whole 6.08 3.27 2.84 34-37 H-3O 0.83 

Ground 4.19 2.22 3.97 37-3O 6.78 0.87 

6.40 3.15 2.90 30.98 9.55 0.84 



For methods of analysis, see under " Cloves." 



MACE 

Mace is the dried mantle or arillus of the nutmeg. It 
consists of smooth branching bands about 40 mm. long, 
2 mm. at the base, and thinner above. It is brownish, has an 
odor like nutmeg, and a warm aromatic taste. Mace contains 
a volatile oil and a resin. It is stated that it contains no fat, 
but this does not accord with Spath's statement, given below. 
According to Fliickiger, there is also present an uncrystal- 
lizable sugar and a body that turns blue with iodin, and, after 
drying, reddish-violet. It appears to be intermediate between 
starch and mucilage. 

Adulteration. In addition to the usual spice adulterants, 
mace is liable to contain Bombay mace, a variety which 
contains neither the fragrance nor the taste of true mace. 
Starch-containing adulterants may be detected by the fact that 
pure mace, boiled with water, yields an easily filtered solution, 
which is not blued by iodin. Determination of the amount 
of starch will furnish a rough indication of the proportion of 
adulterant present. False or Bombay mace may be distin- 
guished by the altered proportion of volatile oil and of ether- 
extract. The following are some results obtained from true 
or Java mace compared with a sample of false mace : 



MACE 309 



True mace, . 

it 

it ii 

it ii 
Bombay mace, 

E. Spath extracted a number of samples of mace with 
petroleum spirit and determined the constants of the material 
obtained. The figures obtained from mace from Banda, 
Menado, Penang, Macassar, and Zanzibar closely agreed with 
each other : 









FIXED 
F.THKR- 






WATER. 


ASH. VOL. OIL. 


BXTKACT. 


FIBER. 


NITROGEN. 


. 5-67 


4.10 


4.04 


27.50 


8-93 


0-73 


4.86 


2.65 


8.66 


29.08 


4.48 


0.98 


10.47 


2.20 


8.68 


23-33 


6.88 


oil 


. 18.21 


1.62 


337 


21.90 


3-70 




. 7.04 


1.36 


0.27 


56.75 


8.17 


. . 





MELTING- 


ZRISS 


MEISSI. 




POINT 


SAPONI- 


REFRACTO- COEFFICIENT 


NUMBER 




IN OPEN 


FICATION 


IODIN 




METF.R 


OF 




(BANDA 


( 


TUBE. 


Nl'MBER. 


NUMBER 




AT 40. 


REFRACTION. 


MACE). 


True mace, . . 


25-26 


169.9-173 


75.6-80.8 


76-85 


1.480-1. 


487 


4.1-4.2 


Bombay mace, . 


3I-3I-5 


189.4-191.4 


50-4-53- 


5 


48-49 


1.463-1 


.464 


I.O-I.I 


From mace- 


















scales, i.e., 


















"the covering 


















i n s i cl e t h e 


















seed-mantle," 


28.5-29 


I48.2-I48.8 


71-3-73 


4 


. . 









According to Konig, a sample containing less than 3 per 
cent, of volatile oil or more than 35 per cent, of extract on the 
dry substance cannot be regarded as true mace. False mace 
is also distinguished by the presence of a peculiar coloring- 
matter, analogous to that of turmeric, rather freely soluble in 
alcohol and but slightly soluble in ether. The large oil cells 
of the false mace contain, according to Hanausek, a resinous 
body with which alcohol produces a yellow or greenish-yellow 
solution, turned orange-red by alkalies. If 10 to 20 c.c. of 
alcohol are shaken with 2 or 3 grams of powdered mace for 
a few minutes and the liquid filtered, the filtrate, but not the 
filter-paper, becomes colored. In the case of false mace the 
strongly colored filtrate dyes the paper a fixed yellow. If the 
filter is dried, freed from the attached powder, and touched 
with a weak alkaline solution, the presence of turmeric is indi- 



3IO FOOD ANALYSIS 

Gated by a brown, and of false mace by a blood-red, color. 
If the alkali be removed by washing the filter with water, 
a trace of acid will be sufficient to bring back the yellow. 
Hefelman suggests decomposing an alcoholic extract with 
lead acetate. Genuine mace gives a milk-white turbidity ; 
false mace, even when mixed with a large proportion of true 
mace, gives a red flocculent precipitate. Turmeric produces 
a somewhat similar color. If a strip of filter-paper be dipped 
into the alcoholic extract, gently dried, and then drawn 
through a cold saturated solution of boric acid in water, the 
presence of a very small quantity of turmeric will be indicated 
by an orange or red-brown tint. With false mace, on the 
other hand, the yellow color of the paper will remain un- 
changed. 

P. Soltsien has called attention to the difference between 
Bombay and Banda mace as regards the quantity of matter 
extracted by ether after removal of the fat-like bodies by 
petroleum spirit, and suggests that advantage be taken of the 
fact in order to distinguish between the two. The difference 
is very considerable, the quantity being about ten times as 
great with Bombay mace as with true mace. Soltsien has 
never found more than 4.8 per cent, of matter extracted by 
ether in a pure Banda mace and suggested 5.5 per cent, as a 
maximum. 

The manipulation is carried out as follows: 10 grams of 
powdered mace are exhausted by boiling petroleum spirit in 
an extraction apparatus. On cooling, an oily portion tends 
to separate at the bottom of the vessel, and this belongs prop- 
erly to the extractive matter soluble in ether. The petroleum 
extract is poured off, the separated oily portion in the flask 
washed with petroleum spirit and dissolved in absolute ether, 
and then a second extraction is made with boiling ether. In 
the ether-extract there is also a tendency for a portion to sep- 
arate out. The extract is poured off, the separated matter 



ALLSPICE 3 I I 

washed with ether, and the washing added to the extract, 
which is then filtered, evaporated, and dried in the water- 
bath, the residue being weighed. 



ALLSPICE 

Allspice or pimento is the dried, nearly ripe fruit of the 
Eugenia pimenta DeC. It is nearly globular, 6 mm. or less 
in diameter. Allspice contains volatile oil, fixed oil, resin, 
tannin, starch, sugar, and mucilage. The volatile oil is simi- 
lar in composition and general properties to oil of cloves. The 
yield is usually between 3 and 4 per cent. 

Adulteration. On account of its cheapness, allspice is less 
subject to adulteration than other spices. In addition to the 
usual spice admixtures, clove stems and the lowest grades of 
cloves are sometimes added. These latter may be detected 
by the microscope, and also, in some cases, by the greatly 
increased proportion of volatile oil. 

The following results from a sample of whole allspice are 
given by Richardson : 

FIXED ETHKR 
WATER. ASH. VOL. OIL. KKSIDIK. CRUDE FIBER. NITROGEN. 

6.19 4.01 5.15 6.15 14-83 0.70 

According to figures published by the A. O. A. C., the 
variations in composition of pure samples will usually range 
within the following limits : 

PER CENT. 

Moisture, 5.5 to 12 * 

Ash 3 to 5 

Volatile oil, 2 to 5 

Ether extract, 7 to 13 

Fiber, 13 to 22 

A sample of pure, whole Jamaica allspice examined by A. 
L. \Vinton gave the following results : 

Volatile oil, 3.52; non-volatile ether extract, 6.48; ash, 4.57. 



3 I 2 FOOD ANALYSIS 

12 samples of commercial ground allspice, in which no 
adulterant could be detected, gave results as follows : 

Volatile oil, 2.05 to 2.84 

Non-volatile ether-extract, 3.98 to 5.62 

Ash, 4.62 to 5.50 

Analytic Methods. Moisture, volatile oil, and fixed ether- 
extract are determined as described under cloves (p. 316). 



CINNAMON 

Cinnamon is the inner bark of several species of Cinnamo- 
mum, of the order Lauracece. Commercial cinnamon may be 
divided into three classes, as follows : 

1. True or Ceylon cinnamon, from C. Zeylanicum Nees. 
This is the finest quality, and is the one which is official in 
most pharmacopeias. It is rarely found in the grocery trade, 
and is used as a drug. In its preparation for the market it is 
deprived entirely of the outer coating and inner cortical lay- 
ers, and forms long strips, usually not above the thickness of 
stout writing-paper. 

2. Common or Chinese cinnamon, C. cassia Blum., and 
known as cinnamon cassia or cassia bark. It is thicker than 
true cinnamon and generally covered with patches of cork. 
It has a less delicate and more astringent taste than true cin- 
namon. The variety of cassia known as Saigon cassia is 
said to have greater strength than true cinnamon. 

3. .Cinnamon barks from various unidentified species or 
varieties, including inferior qualities obtained in the East 
Indies and adjacent mainlands. It is from these that the 
common ground cinnamon of the retail trade is usually 
prepared. 

Microscopically, true cinnamon may be distinguished from 
cassia by the presence in the former of long cells of woody 
fiber, which are especially well shown under polarized light 



CINNAMON 313 

The following are some analyses of pure samples : 



ANALYST. 




WATER 


ETHE- 

RKAL 

OIL. 


FIXED 
ETHER 
EX- 
TRACT. 


CRUDB 
FIBER. 


NITRO- 
GEN. 


ASH. 


Kdnig and Krauch 


Ceylon cinna- 
mon, . . . 


12.44 




1-45 


35-46 


0.64 


3-28 


C. Richardson 


Ceylon cinna- 
mon, . . . 


IO.OO 


3-14 


3-30 


16.18 


0.6l 


3-70 


H 


Ceylon cinna- 
mon, . . . 


5.40 


1.05 


1.66 


33-08 


0.48 


4-55 


li 


Ceylon cinna- 
mon, . . . 


7-93 


0.82 


1.58 


25.63 


0.62 


340 


Kdnig and Krauch 


Cassia bark, . 


13-95 




3.26 


17.72 


0.62 


2.22 


' ii 


ii ii 


14.44 




1.24 


17.76 


0.46 


1.96 


C. Richardson 


it ii 


9.42 


58 


1.40 


17-73 


0.45 


2-35 


it 


ii ii 


11.04 


1. 21 


1.86 


'5-45 


0.72 


2.48 


it 


ii ii 


17-45 


o-55 


0.74 


14-33 


0.64 


525 



The ash of pure cinnamon is usually white, while that of 
cassia is often brown, due to the larger proportion of man- 
ganese oxid. 

The following results were obtained by Dyer and Gilbard, 
on 5 samples of pure cinnamon : 



ALCO- 
FIXED HOL Ex- TOTAL 



ASH 



ASH 



MOISTURE VOLATILE ETHER TRACT ASH, SOLUBLK INSOL. 



;,oss AT 


OIL 


EX- 


AFTER 


LESS 


IN 


IN 




NITRO- 


100). 


(APPROX.). 


TRACT. 


ETHER. 


SAND. 


WATER. 


WATER. 


FIBER. 


GEN. 


"33 


0.77 


1.8 7 


II. O 


2.97 


O. IO 


2.07 


32.90 


0.42 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


13.00 


1-93 


2.30 


I3-27 


5.00 


0.90 


4.70 


35-67 


0.54 



Ground walnut shells gave following results : 

9.97 0.27 i. 60 3.67 0.87 0.37 0.50 47.67 0.20 

The items volatile oil, alcohol-extract, insoluble ash, and 
27 



314 FOOD ANALYSIS 

nitrogen appear to furnish the most assistance in determining 
the proportion of admixture. 

The chemical composition of cinnamon and cassia is in the 
main the same. Each contains a volatile oil, tannin, sugar, 
mannite, starch, and mucilage. The essential oil of C. Zeylan- 
icum is pale yellow or reddish, becoming darker and thicker 
on exposure, and finally depositing crystals of cinnamic acid. 
It has a strong odor of cinnamon and a sweet, warm, aromatic 
taste. The specific gravity of the fresh oil is 1.035. ^ n som e 
cases it is slightly levorotatory. The essential oil of cassia 
has similar properties, but its color is more brownish, taste 
less sweet, odor less delicate, specific gravity greater (1.055 to 
1.065), and is sometimes slightly dextrorotatory. Both oils 
contain variable quantities of hydrocarbons, but consist chiefly 
of cinnamic aldehyde, and, when old, contain resin and cinna- 
mic acid. 

Adulteration. The chief adulteration consists in the substi- 
tution of the inferior cassia for the true cinnamon. As noted 
above, the true cinnamon is now only obtained as a drug. 
They may be distinguished by the difference in their micro- 
scopic characters. Aside from this, the most important 
adulteration consists in the partial abstraction of the ethereal 
oil, on which the value of the spice depends, either by alcohol 
or by distillation with water. Sophistication of this kind is 
difficult to detect, by reason of the variations of the original 
bark in composition. The lower grades of ground cinnamon 
are also adulterated with barks of allied species, refuse found 
in the bundles of cinnamon as imported, mahogany and other 
woods, flours of various kinds, oil-cake, and similar materials. 
These are often readily detected by the microscope. 

In Austria, Bavaria, and Switzerland, cinnamon or cassia 
containing more than 5 per cent, of ash or I per cent, of 
sand is held to be adulterated. 



CLOVES 3 I 5 

CLOVES 

Cloves are the unexpanded flower of the Eugenia aromatica 
O. Kuntze, of the order Myrtace<s. They consist of a dark 
brown, cylindrical calyx, 3 to 4 mm. thick, bearing a several- 
celled ovary and a globular head of four petals. Many oil 
glands are under the epidermis. 

Cloves contain a volatile oil, resin, tannin, and gum, but no 
starch. The volatile oil is thicker than most essential oils and 
becomes still thicker and darker with age. It has the odor of 
cloves and a burning aromatic taste. Its specific gravity is 
from 1.034 to 1.056 ; it boils at 240. The oil obtained from 
clove stalks has a specific gravity of 1.009. Oil of cloves 
dissolves freely in alcohol. Strong solution of potassium 
hydroxid converts it into a crystalline mass of potassium 
eugenate. It is sometimes slightly dextrorotatory. It con- 
sists principally of a hydrocarbon and eugenol (eugenic 
acid). On distilling a mixture of cloves and potassium hy- 
droxid solution, the hydrocarbon is obtained as an oil of 
specific gravity 0.918, boiling at 251. By decomposing 
potassium eugenate with sulfuric acid and distilling, eugenic 
acid is obtained as a colorless oil of specific gravity from 1.076 
to 1.078, boiling at 247.5. Caryophyllin and a salicylic ester 
have also been found. 

Adulterations. In addition to the adulterants usually em- 
ployed for ground spices, clove stems and the fruit of the clove, 
the so-called " mother cloves," may be added. The analysis 
of a sample of clove stems is given below. They may be 
detected by the microscope by the presence of numerous 
stone cells, bast fibers, and scaliform ducts. The form of the 
stone cells varies greatly; the walls are thick and the interior 
cavity may be simple or ramifying. The bast fibers are usually 
long, spindle-shaped, and thick. The scaliform ducts, together 
with the stone cells, are the best evidence of the presence of 



FOOD ANALYSIS 

clove stems. In mother-cloves, the stone cells are very thick- 
walled and have a nodulated exterior, which enables them to 
be distinguished easily. The seeds contain starch and 
raphides. The starch granules resemble those of some kinds 
of arrow- root ; they are principally pear-shaped, or, rather, 
slender and slightly curved, generally single, and show a well- 
marked cross under polarized light. There is a small hilum 
at the broad end. The resemblance to arrowroot starch is 
not likely to cause confusion, as the latter is too costly for use 
as an adulterant. 

Cloves are also adulterated by the addition of samples from 
which a portion of the essential oil has been removed. This 
is usually difficult of detection on account of the great varia- 
tion in the amount of oil found in pure samples. 



ANALYSES OF CLOVES AND STEMS 





WHOLE CLOVES. 


STEMS. 


Water 


16.39 
4.84 
16.98 

6.20 

10.56 

o-95 
Laube and 
Allendorf 


2.9010 10.67 

5-25 ' I3-05 
10.23 ' 18.89 
7.12' 10.24 
6.18' 9.75 

0.76' 1. 12 

Richardson, 
7 samples 


9 to 21 
Dietsch 


10.18 
6.96 
4.40 
4-03 
1358 
0.92 
Richardson 


Ash 


Volatile Oil, 


Fixed ether-residue, .... 
Crude fiber, 


Nitrogen, 


Analyst, . .... 





In 20 samples, either known to be pure, or in which no 
adulteration could be detected by the microscope, A. L. Win- 
ton found the following range in composition : 

PER CENT. 

Volatile oil, 10.01 to 18 32 

Fixed ether-extract, 4.90 " 6.20 

Ash, 6.50 " 7.95 

ANALYTIC METHODS. The presence of a large amount of 
volatile oil necessitates a departure from the methods usually 



MUSTARD 317 

employed for spices. The following method for non-volatile 
ether-extract and volatile oil is practically the same as that 
adopted by C. Richardson and A. L. Winton : 2 grams of 
the material are weighed into a fat-free paper thimble, which, 
with its contents, is dried by standing in a desiccator over sul- 
furic acid for 16 hours, after which the ether-soluble matters 
are extracted as described on page 49. The ethereal solu- 
tion is transferred to a tared receptacle and allowed to evapo- 
rate at the ordinary temperature. After standing 18 hours 
over sulfuric acid, the total ether-extract is weighed. It is 
then heated first at 100 for 6 hours, and then at 110, 
until the weight becomes constant, the loss being volatile 
oil, and the residue the fat and resin. The fiber may be 
determined as usual on the residue insoluble in ether (p. 46). 



MUSTARD 

Mustard is prepared from the seeds of the Brassica nigra 
Koch (black mustard) and B. alba Hkr. f. (white mustard). 
Commercial mustard may be a mixture of the two forms. The 
seeds are finely powdered and passed through a sieve in order 
to remove husks. Both forms contain a fixed oil in fairly con- 
stant proportion, albuminous matter, gum, sinapin thiocyanate, 
and an enzym, myrosin, but no starch. White mustard con- 
tains also the glucosid, sinalbin ; and black mustard the glu- 
cosid, potassium myronate. These glucosids are decomposed 
by the enzym, on addition of water, but the action is not 
hyclrolytic. 

Allyl isothiocyanate, volatile oil of mustard, is a colorless 
liquid, specific gravity -* 1.018, boiling at 148-150, and 
volatile in a current of steam. It has a strong mustard-like 
odor and the vapor excites a flow of tears. It is slightly sol- 
uble in water and much more so in alcohol, ether, petroleum 



3l8 FOOD ANALYSIS 

spirit, and carbon disulfid. It is a powerful rubefacient and 
vesicant. 

Acrinyl isothiocyanate is a yellow liquid of pungent burning 
taste. It is a less powerful vesicant than the oil from black 
mustard and is but slightly volatile in steam. It is insoluble 
in water, but soluble in alcohol and ether. 

Black mustard seeds do not contain sufficient myrosin to 
convert all of the potassium myronate present. White mus- 
tard seeds, on the contrary, contain more myrosin than is 
required to convert the sinalbin, so that by a judicious mixture 
of the two a greater yield of allyl isothiocyanate is secured. 
White mustard yields only traces. 

Myrosin is coagulated by heat, so that if mustard be intro- 
duced into boiling water, no volatile oil is produced. It is 
said to recover its converting power by immersion in water 
for some days. 

The fixed oil of mustard has the following physical and 
chemical constants : Sp. gr., -j|o, 0.914 to 0.920 ; saponifica- 
tion value, 170 to i/5; iodin value, 92 to 106. About 35 
per cent, is usually present. Commercial samples of good 
quality may contain much less, a portion having been ex- 
pressed in the manufacture of the mustard flour. 

The following are some results of examination of pure 
samples : 

Mean of three closely concordant analyses of white mustard 
by Leeds and Everhart : 

Water, 6.83 per cent. 

Potassium myronate, 0.64 

Sinapin thiocyanate, 1 1. 12 

Myrosin and albumin, 28.48 

Fixed oil, 29.21 

Ash, 3.75 

Variations in composition of ground mustard seeds, accord- 
ing to figures published by A. O. A. C. : 



FLAVORING EXTRACTS 319 

PER CBNT. 

Moisture, 3 to 8 

Ash, 4 to 7 

Ether-extract, 31 to 37 

Fiber 4 to 6.5 

Aqueous extract, . 30 to 38 

Sulfur, I to 1.6 

When prepared from partially expressed seeds, the mustard 
will contain less oil (ether-extract) and a correspondingly 
larger proportion of the other ingredients. 

Adulteration. The most common adulterant for mustard is 
rice flour or wheat flour. These are readily detected by the 
microscope and by the presence of starch. This may also be 
present as a constituent of turmeric, added to color pale 
samples. Starch may be detected by boiling a portion of the 
sample with water, filtering, and adding iodin to the filtrate. 
It is estimated as on page 97. The proportion of starch in 
wheat flour is about 72 per cent. A. H. Allen suggests the 
determination of the amount of fixed oil, which is usually about 
35 per cent., and calculating from its deficiency the proportion 
of diluent present. In view of the practice of some manu- 
facturers of pressing the seed, such a method is no longer 
reliable, but may often be of value as corroborative evidence. 

Of mineral additions, calcium sulfate, chalk, and lead 
chromate have been employed. These are detected in the 
ash. 

Yellow coloring-matters are frequently employed, the most 
common being turmeric, Martius' yellow, and naphthol yel- 
low S. Coal-tar colors may be detected by methods given 
on pages 7782 ; turmeric, by the test given under " Mace " 
or by the principle of the test for boric acid, page 89. 

FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

Vanilla Extract. The highest grade of this preparation 
is obtained by macerating vanilla beans with alcohol of 50 per 



32O FOOD ANALYSIS 

cent. The cheaper grades contain cumarin, artificial vanillin, 
some glycerol, and caramel or coal-tar colors. The cumarin 
may be either added as such or obtained by macerating tonka 
beans in the solvent. In cheap extracts a very dilute alcohol 
is used and the solvent action aided by some alkaline substance, 
generally acid potassium carbonate. The following is a pub- 
lished formula for a very cheap imitation extract : 

Vanillin, I gram 

Cumarin, I gram 

Alcohol, 125 c.c. 

Glycerol, 65 c.c. 

Water, I liter 

Caramel to color. 

Commercial vanilla extracts have been examined by W. H. 
Hess. He gives the following test as a critical one in dis- 
tinguishing true from imitation extracts : A portion of the 
sample should be mixed with a few drops of lead acetate 
solution ; if a bulky flocculent precipitate does not form, the 
extract is not of high quality. The process given by Hess 
may then be applied to establish its general character : 

5 c.c. of the extract are diluted slowly with 10 c.c. of 
water and the mixture shaken. A flocculent reddish-brown 
precipitate shows that no alkali has been added. A milky 
solution indicates a foreign resin. Hydrochloric acid is added 
drop by drop to a portion of the diluted liquid ; only a slight 
turbidity should result. If the turbidity is considerable and 
the color fades, alkali has been employed in making the 
extract. 

25 c.c. of the sample are concentrated on a water-bath 
until the alcohol is removed and made up to the original 
volume with water. The vanilla resin will appear as an 
amorphous, flocculent, reddish-brown mass if alkali be absent. 
The cold solution is acidified with hydrochloric acid, when 
the whole of the resin will separate, leaving the liquid nearly 
colorless. After standing several hours the residue may be 



FLAVORING EXTRACTS 321 

collected on a filter, washed with water, and the filtrate and 
precipitate further tested. 

A piece of the filter with resin attached is placed in sodium 
hydroxid solution. A deep red solution should be formed. 
A solution of a portion of the precipitate in alcohol should 
not give any marked reaction with ferric chlorid or hydro- 
chloric acid. 

A portion of the filtrate is concentrated at a low tempera- 
ture until its color approximates that of the original sample, 
a few drops of strong hydrochloric acid are added, and gently 
heated. Caramel will produce a yellowish-red flocculent pre- 
cipitate. The liquid is allowed to cool, filtered, and the 
precipitate washed with water ; if from caramel, the precipitate 
will be insoluble in water, alcohol, and ether, soluble in 
sodium hydroxid, glacial acetic acid, and dilute alcohol. 

A small portion of the filtrate is made alkaline with am- 
monium hydroxid ; natural color is much deepened. Zinc 
dust is added, and the liquid warmed gently. The color 
should return to about the tint it possessed before the am- 
monium hydroxid was added, but azo-colors will be com- 
pletely bleached. If the latter effect occurs, some of the 
liquid should be mixed with hydrogen dioxid, when the color 
will return. 

The caramel test described on page 1 30 will probably be of 
service in these examinations. 

Detection of Cumatin and Vanillin. 50 c.c. of the sample 
are evaporated at low temperature, with addition of water 
from time to time, until the alcohol is removed. Lead acetate 
solution is added slowly, with constant stirring, until precipi- 
tation ceases. The liquid is filtered, the precipitate washed 
with a few c.c. of hot water, the filtrate cooled, and agitated 
with successive portions, 20 c.c. each, of chloroform until a 
few drops of the latter leave no residue when evaporated on 
a watch-glass. Four extractions will usually be sufficient. 
28 



322 FOOD ANALYSIS 

The chloroform extracts are mixed and shaken with successive 
portions, 2 c.c. each, of ammonium hydroxid solution, sp. gr. 
0.960, until the latter no longer becomes yellow. Vanillin 
dissolves in the ammoniacal solution, while the cumarin 
/emains in the chloroform. 

The chloroform is evaporated, best under reduced pressure, 
and the residue dried, either at low pressure over sulfuric 
acid, or in an air-bath not over 45, is repeatedly extracted 
with very light petroleum (so-called ligroin), boiling about 
35, until a drop of the solvent leaves no residue. The col- 
lected ligroin solutions are evaporated and (best at low 
pressure) dried at not above 45. The residue is cumarin. 
The melting-point (67) and odor will serve to confirm the 
analysis. 

The ammonium hydroxid solution is rendered slightly acid 
with hydrochloric acid and the vanillin removed by repeated 
agitation with chloroform. The chloroform is evaporated, the 
residue dried at not above 55, and washed repeatedly with 
small portions of ligroin, the portions collected evaporated as 
before, and the residue, vanillin, is weighed. It may be 
identified by melting-point (8o 81) and the other tests. 
The process may be simplified if merely the qualitative 
recognition of cumarin in commercial vanilla extracts be re- 
quired. 

Lemon Juice and Lemon Sirup. A. Borntrager fur- 
nishes the following analyses of lemon juice : 

RIPE FRUIT. UNRIPE FRUIT. 

Citric acid, 7.25 7.70 

Reducing sugar, 0.75 0.21 

Sucrose, 0.19 0.78 

Ash, 0.39 0.49 

Total solids, 8.87 9.30 

Borntrager also examined several samples of lemon 
sirup giving the following results. No. 2 has been sophis- 
ticated : 



CATSUP AND TABLE ACCESSORIES 323 

No. i. No. a. 

Citric acid 14-4 5-42 

Tartaric acid o.oo 10.70 

Reducing sugar expressed as dextrose, . 30.10 y s -I- 

Sucrose, o.oo o.oo 

Ash, . 0.32 0.72 

Total solids, 81.92 80.56 

The reducing sugar may result from the inversion of the 
cane-sugar. The following formula for a cheap lemon-extract 
is quoted from a trade circular : 

Lemon oil, .... I gram 

Lemon grass oil o. I c.c. 

Citric acid, 0.5 c.c. 

Alcohol, 16.0 c.c. 

Water, iio.oc.c. 

Turmeric tincture to color. 

Magnesium carbonate is used as a clarifying agent, but is 
removed by filtration. Artificial colors, especially naphthol 
yellow S, are often used as coloring agents. 

Analytic examinations will be usually directed to determine 
the presence of artificial colors, glucose, and preservatives, for 
which see pages 77, 115, and 86. 

Tartaric acid may be determined as follows : 20 grams of 
the sirup are mixed with 5 grams of potassium chlorid, the 
solution neutralized with potassium hydroxid and made up to 
50 c.c. with water. 5 grams of citric acid are added, the 
solution well stirred, and allowed to stand overnight. The 
precipitated acid potassium tartrate is washed first with a satur- 
ated solution of the same substance, then twice with a 10 
per cent, solution of potassium chlorid, and titrated hot with 
standard alkali. 

CATSUP AND TABLE ACCESSORIES 

Catsup is prepared from the pulp of tomatoes with addition 
of vinegar and various spices. The bottled catSups almost 
always contain artificial colors and preservatives. The pre- 



324 FOOD ANALYSIS 

servative is usually salicylic acid or sodium benzoate, but 
boric acid may be used. It must be borne in mind that small 
amounts of boric acid may exist in some of the materials 
used in making the catsup, and also that some manufacturers 
buy the tomato pulp from canning establishments, and this 
may be treated with a little salicylic acid to prevent it spoiling 
in warm weather. The detection of artificial colors and pre- 
servatives will be attained by the general processes given in 
the sections on those subjects. 

Many other articles, such as pickles, pickled onions, chow- 
chow, horseradish, and sauces, are now sold in bottles or cans. 
These are rarely colored, but may contain preservatives, 
especially salicylic acid or sodium benzoate, detected as noted 
above. 

Desserts. Under this head will be included ice-cream, 
water-ices, jams, jellies, marmalades, fruit sirups, fancy cakes, 
pies, and custards. The component parts of the higher grades 
of these articles will be found in cook-books. The analytic 
investigations will be limited to the detection of preservatives, 
artificial colors, starch, gelatin, and substitutes for cane-sugar. 
The detection of these substances is given elsewhere, except as 
to gelatin, for which the following process has been proposed : 
The material is boiled with water, filtered, the filtrate boiled 
with excess of potassium dichromate, cooled, and a few drops 
of sulfuric acid added. If gelatin is present, a flocculent pre- 
cipitate will be formed. 

It is probable that the reaction of gelatin with formaldehyde 
could be utilized in these examinations. 

Ice-cream is not subject to serious adulteration. The 
cheaper grades contain much starch, and often artificial fla- 
vors and colors. In hot weather, milk and milk products 
are liable to become very poisonous by the development of 
bacteria, and such cases are often wrongly charged to adul- 
teration. Ice-cream and similar refreshments hawked about 



CATSUP AND TABLE ACCESSORIES 325 

the streets of large cities are very apt to be dirty, containing 
bodies of insects and other filth. 

The method employed by L. K. Boseley for the analysis 
of marmalade will be applicable in many cases to jams, 
jellies, and similar articles. 

Water. Several grams of the well-mixed sample are 
weighed in a flat basin with a glass rod. The mass is warmed 
and 5 c.c. of 40 per cent, alcohol added. 15 grams of dry 
quartz sand are stirred in. The dish is heated on a water- 
bath for one hour, 5 c.c. of absolute alcohol added, and again 
heated for one hour, and then in an air-bath until the weight 
is practically constant, which may require more than 24 
hours. 

Polarimctric Examination. A weight of the well-mixed 
sample equal to 2.5 times the normal weight of the instru- 
ment to be used (*. e., 65.12 for instruments adapted to a con- 
centration of 26.048) is dissolved in about 50 c.c. of cold 
water, added in small portions with stirring, transferred to a 
250 c.c. flask, the residue Avashed, and the washings added 
to the contents of the flask. Lead subacetate is added in 
amount not quite sufficient to remove the acidity, the flask 
filled to the mark and the liquid passed through a dry filter, 
the first 20 c.c. rejected, and the polarimetric reading of a por- 
tion of the remainder of the filtrate taken in the usual man- 
ner. It will be almost always decidedly positive. 50 c.c. of 
the filtrate are inverted as described on page 124 and the 
reading again taken at a temperature as near as possible to 
that of the first reading. For the calculation of sucrose see 
rules on page 125. 



326 FOOD ANALYSIS 



ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

CIDER 

Cider is the juice of apples either before or after ferment- 
ing ; when the alcohol is in considerable amount, the liquid is 
often called "hard cider." Cider differs from wine in con- 
taining no tartrates, and larger amounts of malates and 
calcium compounds. Pear cider, often called " perry," 
contains more sugar than apple cider, and therefore, yields 
more alcohol when fully fermented. The following analyses 
of apple cider by R. Kayser, quoted by A. H. Allen, represent 
the same sample before and after fermentation. The figures 
are grams per 100 c.c.: 

UNFER- 
MENTED. FERMENTED. 

Total solids, 16.25 2.36 

Alcohol, 4.6 (5.8 c.c.) 

Ash, 0.35 0.31 

Malic acid, -33 -3 

Acetic acid, . . 0.08 

Sugar, 12.50 0.75 

Glycerol, 0.68 

G. S. Cox obtained the following results from unfermented 
cider : 

Total solids, . . . . 14-83 13 36 

Ash, .... 0.525 0.286 

Percentage of ash to solids, 3.54 2.14 

The following are some analyses, by J. Embrey, of English 
and American ciders : 

VOL. ACID FIXED ACID 

ALCOHOL. EXTRACT. ASH. SUGAR. AS ACETIC. AS MALIC. 
American : 

I, 2.91 9.2 0.3 7.91 0.096 0.33 

2, 3.49 9.6 0.32 8.2 0.048 0.671 

3, 2.45 8.96 0.24 6.93 0.128 0.712 

English : 

Unfermented juice 

from choice apples, 0.21 12.06 0.3 10.84 0.024 -549 

New English cider, . 3.32 6.7 0.34 3.86 0.144 0.244 

Old English perry, . . 3.64 4.5 0.3 0.36 0.222 0.244 



SPIRITS 327 

From the above and other examinations Embrey is of the 
opinion that unwatered cider will not contain less than 0.25 
per cent, of ash. 

ADULTERATIONS. The usual adulterations of cider are 
dilution with water, addition of soda or lime in order to correct 
acidity, and addition of preservatives. The ash of cider con- 
tains no sodium. When heated, it volatilizes at a compara- 
tively low temperature, and imparts to flame a pure potassium 
color. The dilution of cider with ordinary water containing 
even a small proportion of sodium may be detected by this 
test. The proportion of ash to the original solids may furnish 
some indication of the nature of a sample under examination. 
In unfermcnted cider the proportion of ash to total solids will 
range from 2 to 6 per cent. If the sample be fermented, an 
allowance must be made for the loss in solids. (See under 
" Cider Vinegar.") 

According to the recommendations made to the A. O. A. 
C. in 1897 by the referee on food adulterations, pure cider 
will have the following composition : 

GRAMS PER 100 c.c. 

Alcohol, below 7 

Extract, 2.0 to 8.0 

Sugar, 0.4 to 4.0 

Total acidity, calc. as sulfuric acid, 0.2 100.5 

Fixed acids, calc. as sulfuric acid o. I 100.27 

Ash, 0.17 to 0.35 

Potassium carbonate, 0.14100.23 

The preservatives used are commonly salicylic acid and 
sulfites, but formaldehyde is now sometimes used. The 
analysis of cider is to be conducted according to the methods 
given for alcoholic beverages proper. 



SPIRITS 

Spirits are the liquors obtained by the distillation of alcoholic 
liquids. The latter are the results of fermentation of saccha- 



328 FOOD ANALYSIS 

rine infusions derived from barley, oats, wheat, maize, rice, 
potatoes, or from the juice of fruits, sugar-cane, beet-root, etc. 
The distilled liquor contains water and ethyl alcohol along 
with a small proportion of its homologues (fusel oil), aldehyde, 
acetic acid, and various esters. The amount and nature of 
these associated bodies will depend upon the nature of the 
fermented material and the method of manufacture. The 
character of the distilled spirit is further modified by the addi- 
tion of various flavoring materials. 



WHISKEY 

Whiskey is the spirit distilled from fermented grain. In 
some cases malted grain is used, but more usually a mixture 
of malted and unmalted grain is employed. Spirit from raw 
grain usually contains a larger proportion of fusel oil. The 
grain commonly employed in the United States is rye, but 
wheat and maize are also used to a considerable extent and 
glucose is a frequent addition. The weak spirit (so-called 
" low wine ") which is obtained by distillation is usually re- 
distilled, by which it is obtained stronger and less charged 
with fusel oil. When only malted grain is used, the liquid is 
sometimes distilled in small stills, called "pot heads," and at 
once set aside to age without redistillation. 

Freshly distilled whiskey is colorless and of disagreeable 
flavor. It is usually stored in sherry casks, where it is allowed 
to remain for a considerable time until it has aged or ripened, 
the process consisting in the conversion of the fusel oil into 
various esters of agreeable smell and taste. At the same 
time a small amount of tannin and other matters are extracted 
from the cask, and the whiskey acquires an amber or yellow 
color, which is frequently heightened by the addition of caramel, 
logwood, catechu, tea infusions, etc. Old whiskey has an 
acid reaction, due to the presence of a small amount of acetic 



WHISKEY 329 

and possibly other acids. The acidity increases with age, but 
is rarely over o. I per cent, expressed as acetic acid. 

The U. S. Pharmacopeia defines whiskey to be "a distillate 
from the mash of fermented grain, as maize, wheat, or rye. 
It is an amber-colored, slightly acid liquid. The specific 
gravity should be not more than 0.930 nor less than 0.917, 
corresponding to an alcoholic strength of from 44 to 50 per 
cent, by weight or 50 to 58 per cent, by volume. If 100 c.c. 
be slowly evaporated in a tared capsule in a steam-bath, the 
last portion should not have a harsh or disagreeable odor (ab- 
sence of more than mere traces of fusel oil.) The residue, 
dried at ioo, should not weigh more than O.2I gram, have 
no sweet or distinctly spicy taste, should dissolve almost com- 
pletely in 10 c.c. of cold water to form a solution not more 
deeply colored than light green by a few drops of ferric chlorid 
solution (absence of more than traces of oak tannin). 100 c.c. 
of whiskey should not require more than 12 c.c. ^ sodium hy- 
droxid to render it distinctly alkaline." 

In Scotland and Ireland the drying of the malt takes place 
in kilns in which peat is used as fuel, and the spirit whiskey 
made from it has a strong smoky flavor. This is often im- 
itated by the addition of two drops of creasote to the gallon of 
spirits. A variety of whiskey is sometimes made by distilling 
cider, and is known as apple-whiskey or apple-brandy. 

English whiskies are occasionally adulterated with methyl 
alcohol. Cayenne pepper is also said to be added in order to 
give greater warmth of taste, and thus enable a weak spirit to 
be sold for a strong one. In some cases it appears to have 
been added simply as a flavor. 

Lead, copper, and xiiic have been found in whiskey, and are 
probably derived from the apparatus employed in the dis- 
tillery. They are also said to have been added directly. 

The following are some results of analyses of commercial 
whiskey by A. H. Allen : 



33O FOOD ANALYSIS 

COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL 

SCOTCH WHISKEY. IRISH WHISKEY. 

Specific gravity 0.9416 0.9408 

Alcohol (percentage by weight) 39-5 39-3 

Secondary constituents, expressed in grains 
per imp. proof-gallon : 

Free acid, as acetic, 10.2 6.8 

Ethers in terms of acetic ether, . . . .46.5 23.1 

Higher alcohols in terms of amyl alcohol, 89.6 78.8 

Aldehyde, Trace. Trace. 

Furfural, " " 



BRANDY 

Brandy, also called French brandy or " cognac," is the 
spirit obtained by distilling wine. An inferior quality is 
manufactured from skins and stalks (" marc ") of the grapes. 
Such brandy usually contains more fusel oil than that made 
from wine. So-called British brandy is made from grain 
spirit to which is added flavoring esters, such as ethyl acetate, 
pelargonate and nitrate, bitter almonds, spices, and caramel. 
Freshly distilled brandy is colorless, but on standing in casks 
it dissolves a minute' quantity of tannin and other bodies and 
acquires an amber tint. It is also frequently colored with 
caramel. 

Ordonneau obtained the following results from a French 
brandy, 25 years old, by fractional distillation : 

GRAMS PER 100 LITERS. 

Normal propyl alcohol, 40.0 

Normal butyl alcohol 218.6 

Amyl alcohol, ... 83.8 

Hexyl alcohol 0.6 

Heptyl alcohol, 1.5 

Ethyl acetate 35.0 

Ethyl propionate, butyrate, and caproate, 3.0 

CEnanthic ether, 4.0 

Aldehyde, 3.0 

The ferment of grape skins, Saccharomyces ellipsoides, pro- 
duces normal butyl (tetryl) alcohol, but in fermentation by 
brewer's yeast (S. cerevisice) isobutyl alcohol is formed. By 



MALT LIQUORS 331 

the use of the former ferment, with saccharine solutions other 
than grape-juice, a spirit may be produced having characters 
similar to French brandy. 

GIN 

Gin, and the varieties known as Hollands or Schnapps, are 
usually prepared by redistilling grain spirit which has been fla- 
vored with various bodies, among which may be mentioned 
juniper berries or oil of juniper, turpentine, coriander and car- 
damon seeds, capsicum, orris, angelica, and calamus roots. 
Gin is without color and is comparatively free from fusel oil 
and the associated bodies found in brandy and whiskey. 

RUM 

Rum is the spirit obtained by distilling the fermented juice 
of the sugar-cane, or, more commonly, by distilling fermented 
molasses. The flavor of rum is due largely to the presence 
of ethyl butyrate and ethyl formate. It is colored either by 
long keeping in casks, or by the addition of burnt sugar. 
Much of the commercial article is made from grain spirit to 
which has been added butyric acid or butyric or acetic esters. 
Pineapple and tannin-containing materials are also added. 
According to A. H. Allen, the presence of formates might 
serve to distinguish genuine rum from the factitious product. 
The rum should be evaporated almost to dryness with a 
slight excess of sodium hydroxid and the residue treated with 
phosphoric acid and distilled. The distillate from genuine 
rum will strongly reduce silver nitrate, and give the other 
reactions for formic acid. 

MALT LIQUORS 

These are, strictly speaking, infusions of malt, fermented 
by yeast, and rendered bitter by the addition of hops. Hop- 



332 FOOD ANALYSIS 

substitutes are little used unless the price of hops advances, 
when quassia, chiretta, and aloes may be employed. The 
common substitutes for malt are unmalted cereals, glucose, 
and starch. 

Two methods of fermentation are in use for the prepara- 
tion of beers. The "high" or "surface" fermentation, em- 
ployed for English beers, takes place at a temperature of 15 
to 20, and is completed in from 4 to 8 days. The "low" 
or "bottom" fermentation, employed in Germany, takes 
place at a temperature of from 4 to 8, and requires from 
20 to 24 days for completion. In this process the yeast 
remains at the bottom of the vat. In each of these there is 
a predominance of particular species of yeasts, and unless 
carefully selected and cultivated, the yeast mass will contain 
species producing irregular and often objectionable fermenta- 
tion-products. In this way malt liquors may acquire unpleas- 
ant bitterness or odor, or troublesome turbidity. 

The following are the principal varieties of malt liquors : 

ALE, made from a light-colored malt, usually with addition 
of glucose, and a large proportion of hops. So-called "mild 
ales " are usually sweeter, contain a larger proportion of 
alcohol, and are less bitter. 

PORTER and STOUT are principally distinguished from the 
above by their flavor, derived from the use of a certain pro- 
portion of roasted malt. They also contain less hops. 

Ale, porter, and stout are made by the high fermentation 
process. LAGER or GERMAN BEER is prepared by the low 
fermentation process and contains less alcohol, more sugar, 
dextrin, and nitrogeneous matter, and is more highly charged 
with gas. Lager beers are liable to undergo a second fer- 
mentation unless kept at a low temperature. 

So-called WEISSBIER is light-colored and about half the 
strength of lager beer. Rice is often used in its manufac- 
ture. 



MALT LIQUORS 



333 





u 

5 

2 

a. X 


S'o' o*? o* 'o o" 




3 


|c 

JE 


o o o o o o o 


.2* 

*-> 
13 


5! 


fOQ ^ t*} ON 

N M tM M f*} rO 






O O O O O O O 




en 

flj 


2 2 


Su 

vO t^ tovO ON t^OO ^ M ** ^ O 
i- K ro MM gO'-'NN 


_o 
' _ 
rt 


s t 


d d d d d do a < d d o' 


> 
1, 


3-"u 


^-^3. -oo. 





Is" 


N rororON ro 


0, 


o: 
U 


O 3O *^> *^> N t" N 

N 00 O^OO vO O "O 


*j 


H 


NN O O ^ ^^ **) 




o 


S 

I 


--_.-.- f^oo ^^ u^ 


'J 


o 
1 

C 


O O O O O O O 


E 




t 



^S^n?; ^s^^^- ^=^? 




| 
U 


\O u-> ir> t^ ir> ^\O '0 AI 10 vO o t- 





o 
5 


O^NOOvro J R'S. *^ "*" JCo^NO 


rt 


a 


irrorotN Tj--*vOoA vo vO 


4-> 






cn 




w 


> 




2, 
















"o 




O*>D \f) ^\O OO O 


1 




- N N 


tuo 




-" ' -=" 
g ^^^ 3 2 


j5 

o 




" 8 i Bi"" 1 "*--, 
-^-=^3 -. ',- C^SS 

8 m * ^ > ^ t!o 

1 S-SciU-B |jr = : : ||| 

5:-<cjJ;O'^ (r O 3 33 
W UJ _J Q Q3 ^ < : *'J 2 C3 CS O O 

^5 -vi 



334 FOOD ANALYSIS 

ROOT BEERS and MEAD. Solutions of cane-sugar flavored 
with herbs and roots are much used for the manufacture of 
home-brewed beers. These are subjected to a brief fermenta- 
tion in closed vessels, and, as a rule, but insignificant propor- 
tions of alcohol are formed. 

The principal constituents of beer are as follows : 
Volatile. Water, alcohol, acetic and other acids. 

Fixed. (Extract.) Sugar, chiefly maltose, dextrin, and 
similar bodies, proteids, glycerol, lactic acid, succinic acid, 
bitter principles, and mineral matters, chiefly phosphates. 

ADULTERATION. The chief adulteration of malt liquors 
consists in the addition of substances other than malt and of 
preservatives. The use of glucose is very common, and may 
possibly be detected by the presence of gallisin, which is a 
usual constituent of the commercial article. The substitu- 
tion of any considerable proportion of glucose, rice, or starch 
for the barley will be indicated by the lowered proportion of 
proteids, ash, and phosphates. 

The addition of preservatives, especially salicylic acid, 
sodium fluorid, sodium silicofluorid, and of sulfites is very 
common. Sodium bicarbonate is also added in order to cor- 
rect acidity. The quantity of chlorids may, at times, be con- 
siderable, due either to the addition of salt, or to the presence 
of chlorids in the water used in making the mash. The direct 
addition of salt is probably infrequent. 

The following recommendations as to standards of composi- 
tion of beer were made in 1897 to the Association of Official 
Agricultural Chemists by the referee on food adulteration : 

" The glycerol content of beer should not be less than 0.4 
gram per 100 c.c. The ash should not be less than 0.12 nor 
greater than 0.30 gram per 100 c.c. The presence of less 
than o. 10 gram indicates that some malt substitute low in ash, 
such as starch, has been used in the preparation of the beer, 
while if the ash content be greater than 0.30 gram per 100 



WINE 335 

c.c., and the volatile acids, calculated to acetic acid, less than 
0.075 gram P er IOO c.c., it is probable that an excess of acid 
has been neutralized by sodium carbonate, and the ash of the 
beer should be examined for both sodium and carbonic acid. 
The phosphoric acid should not be less than 0.05 gram nor 
greater than o. 10 gram per 100 c.c. If less than 0.05 gram, 
it is probable that a portion of the malt has been replaced by 
starch or similar substance." 



WINE 

Wine has been defined to be the fermented juice of the 
grape with such additions as are essential to the stability or 
keeping of the liquid. The method of preparation is, briefly, 
as follows : The grapes are crushed, the stems being removed 
in the case of the better grades of wine, and the juice ex- 
pressed. The juice or "must" is sometimes allowed to 
stand in contact with the skins for several days in order to 
extract additional "bouquet."- In the case of red wines, the 
expression of the juice and removal of the skins do not 
take place until the fermentation is practically completed. 
The juice of most varieties of grapes are colorless, but in the 
presence of alcohol formed by the fermentation the red color- 
ing-matter of the skin is extracted ; red wine contains a 
greater proportion of tannin than white wine. The chief fer- 
mentation of the wine usually takes place in from four days 
to several weeks, according to the temperature at which it is 
conducted. After this, the liquid is drawn off into casks, 
where a secondary quiet fermentation takes place. The wine 
is then allowed to age or ripen, a process which involves 
chiefly direct oxidation, and during which potassium acid tar- 
trate is deposited, along with a considerable proportion of the 
coloring-matter, and, by the interaction of the alcohols with 



336 FOOD ANALYSIS 

the acids and other constituents present, various esters are 
formed which give flavor and bouquet. 

The yeast that ferments the must is found on grape skins. 
There are many varieties, some of which produce special 
flavors, and by the application of these in special cases the 
flavor of the wine may be modified. 

Wines prepared as above usually contain very little sugar, 
and are termed dry wines, as distinguished from " full- 
bodied " or sweet wines. Some wines are prepared by adding 
to the must a certain proportion of alcohol, which causes the 
fermentation to cease before the complete conversion of the 
sugar is effected. Port and sherry are manufactured in this 
way. 

Champagne is usually prepared as follows : The pressed 
grapes are fermented as rapidly as possible until but little 
sugar is left. The clarified wine is blended with other wine 
to bring it to the quality desired, and pure sugar (about 2 per 
cent.) is added and the liquid placed in strong bottles, which 
are tightly stoppered and placed horizontally until fermenta- 
tion is completed, and then with the necks downward, and, 
as the wine clarifies, the yeast-sediment collects on the stop- 
per. This is promoted by frequent turning and manipula- 
tion of the bottle. The bottle is then skilfully uncorked and 
a small portion of the wine, carrying with it the sediment, 
removed. The space so emptied is filled by the addition of 
wine and a certain proportion of so-called liqueur, and the 
bottle recorked and wired. These operations are performed 
so quickly that there is but little loss of carbon dioxid. The 
liqueur consists of a mixture of sugar, wine, and cognac. 
Champagne is sometimes prepared by adding the liqueur to 
the fermented wine and charging the liquid with carbon dioxid 
under pressure. 

The normal constituents of wine are water, alcohol and its 
homologues, acetic acid, succinic acid, various compound 



WINE 337 

ethers, sugar, gum, pectin, glycerol, tannin, coloring-matters 
(in red wine), tartaric acid, calcium or potassium tartrates, 
phosphates, and other mineral matter. 

The sugar in wine is apt to be chiefly levulose, dextrose 
being more readily fermentable. 

The table on page 338 gives the composition of must and 
wines from various sources expressed in grams per 100 c.c. 
The data are derived in most cases from the examination of a 
great many samples. 

ADULTERATION. The fact that the composition of wine 
varies within notable limits renders it impossible to assign ab- 
solute standards and allow a margin for the addition of water 
and other substances without so far changing the composition 
as to enable the chemist to determine whether a given sample 
is or is not genuine. Usually it can only be stated that the 
sample conforms in composition to that of genuine wine. 

In some cases additions to the wine or must are regarded 
as legitimate. Thus, it has been found that a certain propor- 
tion of acid to sugar in the must is best adapted to the pro- 
duction of good wine ; and in cases in which this proportion 
does not obtain, it is the practice, in some localities, to make 
such additions as are necessaiy to bring these constituents 
within the proper limits. 

The following conclusions were arrived at by an official 
German commission : 

The total extract of wines should not be below 1.5 grams 
per 100 c.c. After deducting the non-volatile acids, the ex- 
tract should be at least i.i grams per 100 c.c. 

Natural wines usually contain a close approximation of I 
part ash to 10 parts of extract. 

The proportion of free acid calculated as tartaric acid ap- 
pears not to exceed one-sixth of the total volatile acid. 

Genuine wines will not contain less than 0.14 gram of ash 
nor more than 0.05 gram of sodium chlorid in 100 c.c. 
29 



338 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



z 
5 


to 
4) 

u 

S 


M O 

M ro 


00 00 t^ 
O fl O 






ro\O 
rfOO 


3 


H 





o o o 








y 

5 Q 

5* 


o 


N vO 
O O 


^ N IH tO 

o m o o 


vr> vr> N 10 

<* M O 
O TJ- 


OO (^ 


Is 










O 


o o o o 





J^ 


s 

3 . 

S5 o 
x 




Ul 

00 M 


N 10 ^O O 

OO O\ OO f 


w> r<^ vO OO 
O M ?3- 


l-vO 

N4 ^4 


11 Ul 


hO 

,2 







O O 


d d d o* 


O O 


d d 


gox 


* 


o "8 


o o o c? 


o o 1 o o 1 


o^ 


sf 


OH =O 







o o o o 


O O 





o o 




Stf* 


?& 


5-? S^'S^'iS^ 


SSSSx 


3- 


2? 


< 


000 





O- OO OO OO 


O 





o o 



M 

U 




i^> O 


^00; 00,^ 


cT^S 


** 


JJ2 


J 

O 







QI-I -11 OO OO 


O O O 


O M 





M 

< 


<# o> 


s=^ 


o < S, % 


^2 00 





+ ** 


(/I 


H j5> " 





2 6 o" d 2 d 2 d 


TOO O * 


fO 


vO OO 


Q a 


N 1-1 o\ 


ro r^ 


rocc f) I s ** rooo ^ r^* 


^y- 


ON 


vOO 


SS 5 * 


0-0 





00 OO OO OO 


O O O 


o o 


O 


u 

< 
B. 


00 


vO 00 

^ ON 


<o xy$ff*? 


.OgOCO 


s- 


?, 


H 
X 

H 


" 


** ^ 


N 10 N Tj- M N -N 


vO OS 00 


*VO 


00 O 


ALCOHOL. 




CO CO 


|9^^S|g 


S"* 


00*1-. 
M M 


06 d 




o S 


c x 


c - M B >< e x* d x* 


s S S 


d * 


d 2 


SOURCE. 


vT/wj/ .- 

Rhine wine must, < 
( m 

Various musts, average 


S 

rf 

S 

| 

c 

s B 

| 


ES SS EE SS 

V 

o" '. 
. 2 > 

"g c c 
H 

,s '5 '5 

s | | I 

01 ca os 
W n5 U U 


E E E S 

a 

s 

' t 

v. U V 

jj,e s 


E S 

i 

'v 

3 

2 


Champagne, . . | 



WINE 339 

The following recommendations as to standards were made 
in 1897 to the A. O. A. C. by the referee on food adultera- 
tion : 

" The composition of dry wines and sweet wines, calcu- 
lated to sugar-free substances, should not vary far from the 
following figures : 

GRAMS PER 100 c.c. 
Red. White. 

Alcohol (by volume), 12.00 11.50 

Extract, less sugar, 2.80 2.00 

Total acidity, 0.50 0.55 

Tannin and coloring-matter, 0.25 0.96 

Ash, 0.28 0.20 

These figures are for new wines. After standing for two 
or three years the proportion of extract will decrease about 
10 per cent. Wine should be regarded with suspicion which 
contain less than 2.4 grams or more than 3.2 grams of ex- 
tract per 100 c.c., or which contain less than 0.2 gram or 
more than 0.35 gram of ash per 100 c.c., or if the total 
acidity is less than 0.45 gram hydrochloric acid per 100 c.c., 
the ash less than one-eighth .or more than one-half of the 
sugar-free extract, the sulfates correspond to more than 0.2 
gram potassium sulfate per 100 c.c., and thechlorin calculated 
to sodium chlorid, over 0.2 gram per 100 c.c. 

" With American wines the presence of volatile acid, calcu- 
lated to acetic acid, in excess of one-fourth of the total acid, 
may be considered evidence of adulteration, though with 
European wines the ratio is somewhat larger." 

The plastering of wines consists in sprinkling the grape or 
must with plaster-of- Paris, with a view of securing a quicker 
fermentation, better color, and keeping qualities. Plastered 
wine shows but a small increase in ash, but the wine from 
plastered must shows a large increase in the form of po- 
tassium sulfate rather than calcium sulfate. If a wine un- 
usually rich in sulfates and potassium compounds contains 



34O FOOD ANALYSIS 

little or no tartar, it must have been plastered, and the 
absence of alkalinity in the ash will confirm this. 

Sulfurous acid is often present in new wines, from the use of 
sulfites or burning sulfur for the purpose of disinfecting the 
casks. 

The additions to wine commonly detected are sugar, glu- 
cose, honey, glycerol, tartaric acid and other vegetable acids, 
gums, tannin, vegetable astringents, coloring-matters, flavor- 
ing ethers, salicylic acid and other preservatives. In order to 
increase the sugar, total extract and free acid, figs, dates, 
tamarinds, and St. John's bread are frequently employed. 
Dried raisins are largely used for the manufacture of imita- 
tion wines. 

A form of adulteration is the decolorization of red wine by 
the use of charcoal or possibly potassium permanganate, the 
product being sold as a genuine white wine. H. Astruc has 
made a number of experiments on the effect of decolorizing by 
means of various forms of charcoal, including crude and puri- 
fied bone-black, lamp-blacks, and vegetable charcoal. All 
the decolorizers absorbed a little alcohol (0.4 to 1.5 per cent, 
of a total of 7.8) ; a small proportion of the total acidity ; 0.5 
to 2.65 per cent, of the glycerol (out of a total of 4.5 per 
cent.) ; and 0.95 to 2.65 per cent, out of a total of 3.45 per 
cent, of tannin, besides extracting the coloring-matter. The 
crude bone-blacks are distinguished from the purified blacks 
and vegetable charcoals by the fact that they remove almost 
the whole of the tartrates and a larger proportion of glycerol, 
and especially double the proportion of mineral matter in 
solution, the increase being entirely in insoluble ash constit- 
uents (chiefly calcium phosphates), whereas the soluble por- 
tion is diminished. The decolorizing power of the vegetable 
blacks is low and a much larger quantity is required, the 
effect of which on the chemical constitution is greater than 
that of a suitable amount of bone-black. 



WINE 341 

The following is an analysis by Hougounenq of a white 
wine supposed to have been prepared from red wine by the 
addition of potassium permanganate and charcoal : 

Alcohol, 7. 13 per cent. 

Extract (in vacuo) 22.27 grams per liter. 

Ash, 3-59 

Alkalinity of ash as potassium carbonate, I.l6 

Potassium sulfate, 1.14 

Acidity, total, as sulfuric acid, .... 4. 25 

" volatile, as acetic acid, .... 1.23 

Reducing substances as glucose, . . . 1.47 

Glycerol, 1.07 

The ash was red and porous. The sample contained 0.59 
gram of manganous oxid per liter. 

Analyses of pure Ohio wines by A. W. Smith and Norman 
Parks are of interest as indicating a composition in some 
respects different from European wines. The average of 
solids is slightly lower than that of foreign wines, but the 
most important differences are the percentages of glycerol 
and ash. Published reports from European samples give ash 
usually above o. I per cent., and from 0.5 to 0.8 per cent, of 
glycerol, while the maximum and minimum found with the 
Ohio samples are 0.15 to o. 10 for ash, and 0.95 and 0.29 for 
glycerol. Since these two constituents, together with the 
solids, are of much value in determining the genuineness and 
purity of a sample of wine, the differences are most important. 
Many authorities state that in the natural process of alcoholic 
fermentation, glycerol and alcohol are produced in the ratio 
of from 7 to 1 4 parts of the former to i oo parts of the latter, 
from which would be drawn the inference, when this maximum 
is exceeded, that glycerol had been added ; while in case the 
ratio of glycerol to alcohol is below 7 : 100, the inference would 
be drawn that the sample has been fortified by the addition 
of alcohol. Such conclusions in the case of Ohio wines would 
be quite misleading. Smith and Parks also call attention to 
the fact that care must be exercised, when these wines are 



342 FOOD ANALYSIS 

under consideration, in drawing conclusions as to the addition 
of water from the fact of low ash and solids. 

Appreciable amounts of copper, zinc, lead, and arsenic are 
occasionally found in wine. These are probably introduced 
along with crude glucose, anilin colors, or other materials 
which have been added. Lead has been introduced by the 
use of bottles that have been cleaned with shot. 

ANALYTIC METHODS. 

For the detection of alcohol when present in very small 
amount several tests have been devised, but the reactions are 
produced by other substances. The following are the most 
satisfactory. They should be applied to samples containing 
no active ingredients but water and alcohol ; ordinary mix- 
tures should, therefore, be distilled and the distillate tested. 

J. Hardy 's Test, A small quantity of powdered guaiacum 
resin taken from the interior of a lump is shaken with a few 
c.c. of the sample, the liquid filtered, and a few drops of hy- 
drogen cyanid solution and a drop of very dilute copper sul- 
fate solution added. In the presence of alcohol a blue tint 
much deeper than that due to the copper sulfate will appear. 

E. Merck's Modification of E, W. Davy 1 s Test. Pure mol- 
ybdenum trioxid is dissolved in warm sulfuric acid, and the 
mixture poured through the solution to be tested, keeping 
the mess as nearly as possible at 60. Alcohol produces a 
blue ring at the junction of the liquids. 

Hager's Modification of Lieben's Test. -10 c.c. of the 
sample are mixed with 5 drops of a 10 per cent, solution of 
sodium hydroxid and the liquid heated to about 50. Potas- 
sium iodid-iodin solution is added drop by drop with shaking 
until the liquid is permanently yellowish-brown. It is then 
decolorized by the cautious addition of more sodium hy- 
droxid. If alcohol is present, iodoform will be produced 
as a yellow precipitate of characteristic odor and crystalline 



NVINE 343 

form. Under rather high magnifying power (200 diameters) 
these are seen to consist of hexagonal plates or six-pointed 
stars. This is a good test, but requires care. The iodin so- 
lution should be strong and the directions should be followed 
closely. The reaction is given by many bodies, but not by 
methyl alcohol, fusel oil, common ether, chloral, chloroform, 
or glycerol. 

Specific gravity determinations of commercial liquors are 
occasionally made, but, as a rule, the figures have little prac- 
tical bearing. 

Alcohol may be determined directly in spirits and other 
mixtures containing but little solid matter by taking the 
specific gravity and correcting for temperature. This is the 
method used by revenue officers. 

For determining the alcohol in samples containing appre- 
ciable amounts of solid matters, several methods have been 
devised, of which only two deserve mention here : distilla- 
tion and observation of boiling-point. 

For distillation 200 c.c. of tbe sample should be taken, 100 
c.c. of water added, the mixture distilled until 200 c.c. are 
collected. The specific gravity of this is taken at standard 
temperature and the percentage of alcohol ascertained by the 
annexed tables. 

The following tables are condensed from those recalculated 
by Edgar Richards from the determinations of Gilpin, Drink- 
water and Squibb, and published by the A. O. A. C. All data 
are given at ~^ . The figures in columns designated volume 
(V) or weight (W) are percentages of absolute alcohol, by 
volume or weight respectively, corresponding to the specific 
gravity indicated. When the percentage in two lines is the 
same, the actual difference is in the second decimal place, 
which has been omitted in this condensed table : 



344 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



SPECI- 
FIC 
GRAV- 
ITY. 


VOL- 
UME. 


WEIGHT 


SPECI- 
FIC 
GRAV- 
ITY. 


VOL- 
UME 


WEIGHT 


SPECI- 
FIC 
GRAV- 
ITY. 


VOL- 
UME. 


WEIGHT 


SPECI- 
FIC 
GRAV- 
ITY. 


VOL- 
UME 


WEIGHT 


1. 0000 


O.O 


0.0 


0.9928 


5-0 


4.0 


0.9866 


10.0 


8.0 


0.9811 


15-0 


I2.I 


0.9998 


I 


o 


26 


I 


o 


64 


I 


i 


IO 


I 


2 


96 


2 


i 


25 


2 


i 


63 


2 


2 


09 


2 


2 


95 


3 


2 


24 


3 


2 


62 


3 


2 


08 


3 


3 


93 


4 


3 


22 


4 


3 


61 


4 


3 


07 


4 


4 


0.9992 0.5 


0.4 


0.9921 


5-5 


4-4 


0.9860 


10.5 


8. 4 


0.9806 


15.5 


12.5 


90 6 


4 


20 


6 


4 


59 


6 


5 


05 


6 


6 


89 7 


5 


18 


7 


5 


58 


7 


6 


04 


7 


7 


87 8 


6 


17 


8 


6 


56 


8 


7 


3 


8 


7 


86 9 


7 


16 


Q 


7 


55 


9 


9 


O2 


9 


8 


0.9984 i.o 


0.7 


0.9914 


6.0 


4.8 


0.9854 


II. 


8.8 


0.9801 


16.0 


12.9 


83 i 


8 


13 


I 


8 


53 


i 


9 


oo 


i 


13.0 


si 2 


9 


12 


2 


9 


52 


2 


90 


0.9799 


2 


i 


80 3 


I.O 


II 


3 


5.0 


5i 


3 


i 


98 


3 


2 


79 


4 


i 


09 


4 


i 


5o 


4 


i 


97 


4 


2 


0.9977 


i-5 


i.i 


0.9908 


6-5 


5-2 


0.9849 


"5 


9-2 


0.9796 


16.5 


13-3 


76 6 


2 


07 


6 


2 


47 


6 


3 


95 


6 


4 


74 7 


3 


05 


7 


3 


46 


7 


4 


94 


7 


5 


73 8 


4 


04 


8 


4 


45 


8 


5 


92 


8 


6 


71 9 


5 


3 


9 


5 


44 


9 


5 


91 


9 


7 


0.9970 


2.0 


i-5 


0.9902 


7.0 


5-6 


0.9843 


12.0 


9.6 


0.9790 


17.0 


13-7 


68 


I 


6 


00 


i 


6 


42 


I 


7 


89 


i 


8 


67 


2 


7 


0.9899 


2 


7 


4i 


2 


8 


88 


2 


9 


65 


3 


8 


98 


3 


8 


40 


3 


9 


87 


3 


14.0 


64 


4 


9 


97 


4 


9 


39 


4 


10.0 


86 


4 


i 


0.9962 


2-5 


1.9 


0.9895 


7-5 


6.0 


0.9838 


".5 


IO.O 


09785 


17-5 


14.1 


61 


6 


2.O 


94 


6 


i 


37 


6 


I 


84 


6 


2 


60 


7 


I 


93 


7 


i 


35 


7 


2 


83 


7 


3 


58 


8 


2 


92 


8 


2 


34 


8 


3 


82 


8 


4 


57 


9 


3 


90 


9 


3 


33 


9 


4 


81 


9 


5 


0.9955 


3-0 


2.3 


0.9889 


8.0 


6.4 


0.9832 


13-0 


10.4 


0.9780 


18.0 


14.6 


54 


i 


4 


88 


i 


5 


3i 


i 


5 


79 


I 


6 


52 


2 


5 


87 


2 


5 


30 


2 


6 


78 


2 


7 


5 


3 


6 


86 


3 


6 


29 


3 


7 


77 


3 


8 


So 


4 


7 


84 


4 


7 


28 


4 


8 


76 


4 


9 


0.9948 


3-5 


2.8 


0.9883 


8-5 


6.8 


6.9827 


13-5 


10.9 


0-9775 


18.5 


15-0 


47 


6 


8 


82 


6 


9 


26 


6 


9 


74 


6 


i 


45 


7 


9 


81 


7 


9 


25 


7 


II. O 


73 


7 


i 


44 


8 


3-0 


80 


8 


7.0 


24 


8 


i 


72 


8 


2 


43 


9 


i 


78 


9 


i 


23 


9 


2 


7i 


9 


3 


0.9941 


4.0 


3-2 


0.9877 


9-o 


7-2 


0.9821 


14.0 


"3 


0.9770 


19.0 


i5-4 


40 


i 


2 


76 


i 


3 


20 


I 


3 


69 


i 


5 


39 


2 


3 


75 


2 


3 


19 


2 


4 


68 


2 


5 


37 


3 


4 


74 


3 


4 


18 


3 


5 


67 


3 


6 


36 


4 


5 


73 


4 


5 


17 


4 


6 


66 


4 


7 


0.9934 


4-5 


3-6 


0.9871 


9-5 


7.6 


0.9816 


14-5 


11.7 


0.9765 


19-5 


15-8 


33 


6 


6 


70 


6 


7 


15 


6 


8 


64 


6 


9 


32 


7 


7 


69 


7 


8 


14 


7 


8 


63 


7 


16.0 


3 


8 


8 


68 


8 


8 


3 


8 


9 


62 


8 





29 


9 


9 


67 


9 


9 


12 


9 


I2.O 


61 


9 


i 



ANALYTIC METHODS 



345 



S.G. 


V. 


W. 


S.G. 


V. 


w. 


S.G. 


V. 


w. 


S.G. 


V. 


w. 


0.9760 


zo.o 


16.2 


0.9709 


z5-o 


20.4 


0.9654 


30.0 


24.6 


0.9591 


35-o 


28.9 


59 


3 


08 i 5 


S 2 


i 7 


89 I 


29.0 


5 


2 


4 


07 2 6 


5 


2 


8 


ss 


2 


i 


57 


3 


5 


06 3 6 


50 


3 


9 


86 


3 


2 


5" 4| 5 


5 4 7 


49 


4 250 


85 4 


3 


0.9755 20.5 16.6 


0.9704 25.5 20.8 


0.964830.5 25.0 


0958435.5 


29-3 


54 o| 7 


03 6 9 


46 


6 i 


82 


6 


4 


53 


7 8 


02 7 


21. 


45 


7 2 


8l 


7 


5 


52 


9 


01 8j i 


44 


8! 3 


80 


8 


6 


5' 


9 


17.0 


oo 9 i 


43 


9 4 


78 


9 


7 


0.9750 


21.0 


17.0 


O 9699 26.O 21.2 


0.964231.0 25.5 


0.957736-0 


29.8 


49 


I 


i 


9* 


i 


3 


40 


I 6 


75 


I 


9 


48 


2 


2 


96 


2 


4 


39 


2 6 


74 


2 


30.0 


47 


3 3 


95 3 5 


38 


3 7 


73 


; 


o 


46 


4 4 


94! 4 6 


37 


4 8 


71 4 


i 


0-9745 


ai.s 17.5 


0.969326.5 21.6 


0.963631.5 25.9 


0.9570 36.5 


30.2 


44 


6 5 


92 


6 


7 


34 


6 26.0 


68 6 


3 


43 


7 6 


9 


7 


8 


33 


7 i 


67 7 


4 


42 


8 


7 


90 


8 


9 


32 


8 


2 


66 


8 


5 


4i 


9 


b 


8 9 


9 


22 O 


3 


9 


2 


64 


9 


6 


0.974022.0 17.9 


0.9688 27.0 22.1 


0.962932.0 26.3 


0956337-0 


30.7 


39 i 18.0 


87! I 2 


28 


i 4 


i.i I 


7 


3 


2 


o 


86 2 


2 


27 


2 


5 


60 2 


8 


37 


3 


i 


85 


3 


i 


26 


3 6 


58 3 


9 


3<> 


4 2 


83 4 


4 


24 


4 7 


57 4 


31-0 


0.9735 2 2 -5 18.3 


0.9682 27.5 22.5 


0.9623 32.5 26.8 


0.955637-5 


3i-i 


34 6 4 


8l 6| 6 


22 


6 


54 6 


2 


33 


7 


5 


80 7 


7 


21 


7 


9 


53 7 


3 


32 


5 


79 8 


7 


19 


8 


27.0 


5 1 8 


4 


3i 9 6 


78 9 8 


18 9 


i 


So 9 


4 


0.973023.0 18.7 


0.9677 28.0 22.9 


0.9617 33.0 


27.2 


0.954838.0 


3i-5 


29 I 8 


76 


i| 23.0 


5 


I 


j 


47 i 


6 


28 2 9 


74 


2 


i 


14 


2 


4 


45 2 


7 


2 7 3 iQ-o 


73 3 2 


13 3 4 


44 3 


8 


26 4 o 


72 4 3 


12 4 


42| 4 


9 


0.9725235 ig- 


0.9671 28.5 23.3 


0.961033.5 27.6 


0-9541 38.5 


32.0 


24 




70 


6 


^ 


09 6 7 


39 6 


i 


2 3 


7 3 


69 


7 


i 


08 7 8 


38 


7 


2 


22 


8 4 


68 


8 


6 


06 8 


9 


3^ 


8 


2 


21 


9 5 


66 


S 





5 9 


28.0 


35 


9 


3 


0.972024.0 19.5 


0.9665 29.0 23.8 


0.960434.0 28.0 


0-9533 39-o 3-4 


19 I 


64 i 8 


3 * * 


32 1 5 


(8J 1 7 


63 


2 9 


01 2 2 


30 2 6 


IJ 


3 8 


62 


3 24.0 


oo 3 ^ 


29, 3 


7 


'54 9 


61 


- 


i 


0-9599 4 4 


27 A 


8 


9.971424.5 20.0 


0.966029.5 24.2 


0-959734-5 28.5 


0.952639.5 32.9 


13 6 o 


5 s 6 i 3 


96 o 6 


24 t 


9 


11 


t ' 


- 


57 


: 


^ 


95 5 


7 


2; 


> : 





i 


l I 


2 


5< 


> i 


4 


93 


7 


21 


i 


i 


K 


> < 


' 3 


5! 


. < 


) 5 


9 


t ( 


) 8 


2C 


> < 


) 2 



346 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



S. G. 


V. 


W. 


S. G. 


V. 


W. 


S. G. 


V. 


W. 


S. G. 


V. 


W. 


0.9518 


40-oj 33-3 


0.9478 


42.5 


35-5 


0.9436 


45-o 


37-8 


0.9391 


47.5 


40.1 


16 


I 4 


77 6 


6 


34 


I 


9 


89 


6 


2 


15 


2 


5 


75 


7 


7 


32 


2 


38.0 


87 


7 


3 


13 


3 


6 


73 


8 


8 


3 


3 


i 


86 


8 


4 


12 


4 


7 


72 


9 


9 


29 


4 


2 


84 


9 


5 


0.9510 


40-5 33-7 


0.9470 


43-o 


36.0 


0.942745.5 38.3 


0.9382 48.0 


40.6 


09 


6: 8 


68 


i 


i 


25 


6 


3 


80 


i 


6 


O? 


7 


9 


6 7 2 


2 


24 


7 


4 


78 


2 


7 


05 


8 


34-o 


65 3 


3 


22 


8 


5 


76 


3 


8 


04 


9 


i 


63 


4 


3 


20 


9 


6 


74 


4 


9 


0.9502 


41.0 


34-2 


0.9462 


43-5 


36.4 


0.9418 


46.0 


38-7 


09373 


48.5 


41.0 


01 


i 


3 


60 


6 


5 


17 


i 


8 


71 


6 


i 


0.9499 


2 


4 


5* 


7 


6 


15 


2 


9 


69 


7 


2 


9 8 


3 


5 


57 


8 


7 


3 


3 


39-0 


67 


8 


3 


9 6 


4 


5 


55 


9 


8 


II 


4 


i 


65 


9 


4 


0.9494 


41-5 


34-6 


0-9453 


44-0 


36.9 


0.9409 


46.5 


39-2 


0.9363 


49.0 


4i-5 


93 


6 


7 


5' 


i 


37-0 


08 


6 


3 


61 


i 


6 


9i 


7 


8 


So 


2 


i 


06 


7 


3 


59 


2 


7 


9 


8 


9 


48 


3 


2 


04 


8 


4 


57 


3 


8 


88 


9 


35-o 


46 


4| 3 


O2 


9 


5 


55 


4 


9 


0.9486 42.0 


35-i 


0-9445 


44-5 37-3 


0.9400 


47-0 


39-6 


0-9354 


49-5 


41.9 


8 5 ; I 


2 


43 


6 


4 


0.9399 


i 


7 


52 


6 


42.0 


83 2 


3 


4i 


7 


5 


97 


2 


8 


5 


7 


i 


8' 3 


4 


39 


8 


6 


95 


3 


9 


48 


8 


. 2 


80 


4 


4 


38 


9 


7 


93 


4 


40.0 


46 


9 


3 



Alcohol may be determined by noting the temperature of 
the vapor from the boiling liquid. Wiley has described a 
form of apparatus (Fig. 52) for this purpose. It consists of 
the flask, F, which is closed by the rubber stopper, carrying 
the large thermometer, B, and a tube leading to the con- 
denser, D. The vapors which are given off during ebullition 
are condensed in D and return to the flask through the tube, 
as indicated in the figure, entering the flask below the surface 
of the liquid. 

The flask is heated by a gas-lamp and is placed upon a per- 
forated disk of asbestos in such a way as to entirely cover the 
hole in the center of the asbestos disk, which is a little 
smaller than the bottom of the flask. The whole apparatus 
is protected from external influences of temperature by the 



ANALYTIC METHODS 



347 



glass cylinder, K, which rests upon the asbestos disk below 
and is covered with a detachable, stiff rubber-cloth disk above. 

The thermometer, C, indicates the temperature of the air 
between F and E. The 
re.uling of the thermom- 
eter, B, should always 
be made at a given tem- 
perature of this sur- 
rounding air. The tube 
leading from the con- 
denser, D, to the left is 
made long and is left 
open at its lower ex- 
tremity in order to main- 
tain atmospheric pres- 
sure in F and at the 
same time prevent the 
diffusion of the alcoholic 
vapors through D. 

The flame of the lamp 
is so regulated as to 
bring the temperature in- 
dicated by the thermom- 
eter C to about 90 in 
ten minutes, for sub- 
stances containing not 
over 5 per cent, of alco- 
hol. After boiling for a 

few minutes, the tern- FlG _ 2 

perature, as indicated in 

the thermometer B, is constant, and the readings of the ther- 
mometer should be made at intervals of about half a minute, 
for ten minutes. Some pieces of scrap platinum placed in 
the flask will prevent bumping and secure a more uniform 




348 FOOD ANALYSIS 

evolution of vapor. Slight variations, due to the changes 
in temperature of the vapors, are thus reduced to a minimum 
effect upon the final results. The apparatus is easily oper- 
ated, is quickly charged and discharged, and with it at least 
three determinations of alcohol can be made in an hour. 

The thermometer used is the same that is employed for the 
freezing and boiling points in the determination of molecular 
weights. The reading of the thermometer is arbitrary, but 
the degrees indicated are centigrade. The thermometer is set 
in the first place by putting the bulb in water containing 16 
grams of common salt to 100 c.c.; when the water is fully 
boiling, the excess of mercury is removed from the column in 
the receptacle at the top, and then, on placing in boiling 
water, the column of mercury will be found a little above the 
5 mark. This will allow a variation in all of 5 in the tem- 
perature, and a thermometer thus set can be used for the esti- 
mation of percentages of alcohol from one to five and a half, 
by volume. When the liquor contains a larger percentage of 
alcohol than this, it is advisable to dilute it until it reaches the 
limit. 

In order to avoid frequent checking of the thermometer, 
rendered necessary by changes in barometric pressure, a 
second apparatus, made exactly like the one described, is 
used, in which water is kept constantly boiling. It is only 
necessary, in this case, to read the two thermometers at the 
same instant, in order to make the necessary correction re- 
quired by changes in barometric pressure. 

Each 0.8 corresponds to about I per cent, by volume of 
alcohol in liquors containing not more than 5.5 per cent. 
For example, if, in a given case, the temperature of the vapor 
of boiling water, as marked by the thermometer, is 5.155 
and the temperature of that from a sample of beer is 2.345, 
the difference is equivalent to 2.810, and the percentage of 
alcohol by volume is, therefore, 2.81 divided by 0.80 - 3.51. 



ANALYTIC METHODS 349 

The thermometer used is graduated to hundredth! of a 

degree, and may be read by a cathetometer to 0.005. 

The thermometer is protected and its reading facilitated by 
covering the bulb with a test-tube containing water. 

lixtract is determined as indicated on page 36. When the 
amount exceeds 6 per cent., it will be best to dilute the 
sample with an equal volume of water, making allowance for 
this in calculating results. Some operators advise the use of 
50 c.c. for this determination, but it is likely that equally 
good results can be obtained in small dishes with 10 c.c. 

Ash. The residue from the extract determination is incin- 
erated at as low a heat as possible. Repeated moistening, 
drying, and heating to redness are advisable to get rid of car- 
bon. 

(iiim and Dextrin (in wine). 4 c.c. of the sample are 
mixed with 10 c.c. of 96 per cent, alcohol. If gum arabic or 
dextrin is present, a lumpy, thick, and stringy precipitate is 
produced ; pure wine becomes at first opalescent and then 
gives a flocculent precipitate. 

Total Acidity. Any carbonic acid present is removed by 
shaking a portion of the sample ; 25 c.c. are transferred to a 
beaker and, with white wines, 10 drops of neutral litmus 
solution added. Decinormal sodium hydroxid solution is 
added until the red color changes to violet, and then in small 
amounts until a drop of the liquid placed on delicate red lit- 
mus-paper shows an alkaline reaction. The result is ex- 
pressed in terms of tartaric acid : 

I c.c. N sodium hydroxid solution = 0.0075 gram tartaric acid. 
10 

Determination of Volatile Adds. 50 c.c. of wine to which a 
little tannin has been added, to prevent foaming, are distilled 
in a current of steam. The flask is heated until the liquid 
boils, the lamp turned down, and the steam passed through 



35O FOOD ANALYSIS 

until 200 c.c. have been collected in the receiver. The dis- 
tillate is titrated with " sodium hydroxid solution, and the 
result expressed as acetic acid : 

I c.c. - N sodium hydroxid solution = 0.006 gram acetic acid. 
10 

Total Sulfitcs. 25 c.c. of normal potassium hydroxid are 
placed in a 200 c.c. flask, 50 c.c. of the sample added, best 
by means of a pipet, the liquids mixed and allowed to stand 
15 minutes with occasional shaking. 10 c.c. of dilute (25 
percent.) sulfuricacid are added, with 3 c.c. of starch solution, 
and the mixture titrated with N iodin solution introduced as 

10 

rapidly as possible. The number of c.c. of iodin required to 
secure a blue color lasting for some minutes, multiplied by 
0.00128, will give the equivalent of sulfurous acid in grams per 
100 c.c. The sulfurous acid existing as such is estimated by 
treating 50 c.c. of the sample in a 200 c.c. flask with 5 c.c. of 
the dilute sulfuric acid, adding a small piece of sodium carbonate 
to expel air, and titrating with N iodin as before, using the same 
multiplier to obtain grams per 100 c.c. 

Glycerol. 100 c.c. of wine are evaporated in a porcelain 
dish to about zoc.c., I gram of quartz sand and 2 grams of 
milk of lime containing 40 per cent, calcium hydroxid added, 
and the evaporation cautiously carried almost to dryness. 
The residue is mixed with 50 c.c. of alcohol, 90 per cent, by 
weight, using a glass .pestle or spatula to break up any solid 
particles, heated just to boiling on the water-bath, allowed to 
settle, and the liquid filtered into a flask graduated at 100 and 
1 10 c.c. The residue is repeatedly extracted in a similar 
manner with 10 c.c. portions of hot alcohol. The contents 
of the flask are cooled to 15, diluted with alcohol to the 
100 c.c. mark, and filtered rapidly. 50 c.c. of the filtrate 
are evaporated to a sirup in a porcelain dish on hot, but not 
boiling water, the residue transferred to a small glass-stop- 



ANALYTIC METHODS 351 

pered graduated cylinder, with the aid of 2O c.c. absolute 
alcohol, and three portions of 20 c.c. of pure ether added, 
shaking well between each addition. The mixture is allowed 
to stand until clear, decanted through a filter, the cylinder 
washed at least three times with a mixture of I part abso- 
lute alcohol and 1.5 parts of pure ether, the washings being 
added to the filtrate. The latter is evaporated to a sirup, 
dried for one hour at 100, and weighed. The weight 
doubled gives the grams of glycerol per 100 c.c. of sample. 

Artificial Colors. Arata's wool-test {page 77) will serve in 
many cases. The following additional tests are taken from 
publications of the A. O. A. C. : 

o. 2 gram of precipitated mercuric oxid are added to loc.c. 
of the sample, the mixture shaken for one minute, and filtered. 
Natural colors give a colorless or light yellow filtrate. A fil- 
trate showing a red tint indicates that an artificial color is 
present. 

200 c.c. of wine are freed from alcohol by concentration, 
2 to 4 c.c. of 10 per cent, hydrochloric acid added, and some 
threads of fat-free wool immersed and boiled for five minutes. 
The threads are removed, washed with cold water, acidified 
with hydrochloric acid, then with hot water similarly acidified, 
then with pure water. The coloring-matter is dissolved from 
the threads by immersion in a boiling mixture of 50 c.c. water 
ami 2 c.c. of strong ammonium hydroxid. This liquid is 
then acidified with hydrochloric acid, new threads immersed 
and boiled for five minutes. It is stated that in the presence 
of artificial colors to an amount of 0.002 gram per 1000 c.c. 
the threads are affected as follows : 

Safranin, ... light rose-red. 

Bordeaux red, rose-red to violet. 

Ponceau red, rose-red. 

Fuchsin, dirty white. 

Tropeolin OO, straw yellow. 

Tropeolin OCX), light orange. 

Corallin, dirty white. 



352 



FOOD ANALYSIS 




Special method for fuchsin and archil : 20 c.c. of wine are 
mixed with 10 c.c. of lead acetate solution, heated slightly, 
well mixed, filtered, 2 c.c. of fusel oil added, and the mixture 
shaken. If the fusel oil be colored red, it is removed and 
divided into two portions. To one portion hydrochloric acid 
is added ; to the other, ammonium hydroxid. If fuchsin was 
present, the liquor will be decolorized in both 
cases, but with archil the ammonium hydroxid 
will produce a purple violet. 

An extraction method for detecting caramel or 
prune juice in spirits has been devised by Crampton 
and Simons : 

50 c.c. of the sample are evaporated on the 
water-bath nearly to dryness, the residue washed 
into a 50 c.c. flask, 25 c.c. of absolute alcohol 
added, and the solution, after cooling to standard 
temperature, made up to the 50 c.c. mark and 
mixed. 25 c.c. are transferred to a separating ap- 
paratus and agitated with 50 c.c. of ether at inter- 
vals for about thirty minutes. When the layers 
are separated, the watery layer is diluted to 25 c.c., 
the contents of the flask are shaken, and the liquids 
again allowed to separate. The water-layer will 
be increased slightly, and 25 c.c. of it should be 
drawn off for. comparison with the 25 c.c. of solu- 
tion which has not been treated with ether. By 
comparing the two liquids in a tintometer, quantitative obser- 
vations may be made. The coloring-matter of oak-wood is 
soluble in ether, and, therefore, spirits not artificially colored 
become lighter when treated by this method. 

Crampton and Simons advise the use of Bramwell's modi- 
fication of Rose's apparatus for the operation. It is shown 
in figure 53. The upper bulb should have a capacity of 
about I5OC.C.; the lower bulb should have a capacity of 25 



FIG. 53. 



ANALYTIC METHODS 353 

c.c., including a portion of the connecting stem. This stem 
should have a caliber about 4 mm. and it is graduated in 
0.02 c.c. from 20 c.c. to 25 c.c., the upper mark only being 
shown in the figure. For diluting the watery layer as di- 
rected in the process, it is best to attach a rubber tube to 
the lower opening and connect the other end of the rubber 
tube to a flask of water. By elevating the flask and con- 
trolling the flow of water by the stopcock, any amount of 
liquid may be introduced. 

Fusel Oil. Of the many processes devised for this deter- 
mination, the following is selected. It is transcribed as given 
in the Bulletin of the A. O. A. C. The separator (Fig. 53) 
is used ; the reagents are : 

Alcohol free from fusel oil prepared by fractional distillation 
over sodium hydroxid and diluted so as to contain exactly 
30 per cent, of absolute alcohol by volume (sp. gr., 0.96541 
at 15.6). 

. \nhy drous chloroform redistilled. 

Diluted sit If uric acid (sp. gr."; 1.2857 at 15.6). 

To dilute any sample of alcohol to a given percentage mix 
a volumes of the alcohol with sufficient water to make b vol- 
umes of the product, a being the volume-percentage desired 
and b the volume-percentage of the original liquid. Allow 
the mixture to stand until full contraction has occurred and 
the original temperature reached and make up any deficiency 
with water. For example, if it be desired to dilute a distil- 
late containing 50 per cent, of alcohol by volume until it 
contains 30 per cent. : 30 volumes of the 50 per cent, alco- 
hol are mixed with enough water to make 50 volumes. 

Analytic operation : 200 c.c. of the sample are distilled 
until about 25 are left, the flask is allowed to cool, 25 c.c. 
of water added to the contents, and distilled again until the 
total distillate measures 200 c.c. The volume-percentage of 



354 FOOD ANALYSIS 

this is ascertained and it is diluted to 30 per cent, by the rule 
above given. 

The special tube and separate flasks containing sufficient of 
the various reagents and the properly diluted distillate are im- 
mersed in water at I 5 until all have attained that temperature. 
The tube should have a rubber cap over the lower end to 
prevent entrance of water. When the temperature is reached, 
the tube is filled to the 20 c.c. mark with chloroform, 
drawing it through the lower end by suction ; then 100 c.c. 
of the purified alcohol are added and i c.c. of the diluted 
sulfuric acid, the apparatus inverted, and shaken vigorously 
for 3 minutes. The stopcock should be opened a couple of 
times to equalize pressure. The tube is placed for i 5 minutes 
in water at 15, turning occasionally to hasten the separation 
of the reagents, and then the volume of the chloroform 
noted. After thoroughly cleansing and drying the apparatus, 
the operation is repeated, using the diluted distillate from the 
sample under examination, in place of the purified alcohol. 
The increase in the chloroform volume with the sample under 
examination over that with the standard alcohol is due to fusel 
oil, and this difference (expressed in c.c.), multiplied by 
0-663, gives the volume of fusel oil in 100 c.c., which is equal 
to the percentage of fusel oil by volume in the 30 per cent, 
distillate. This must be calculated to the percentage of fusel 
oil by volume in the original liquor. 

Gallisin and Foreign Bitters. For the detection of gallisin, 
indicating the use of commercial glucose, the following method, 
due to Haarstick, is recommended : i liter of the beer is 
evaporated to a thin sirup, and 300 c.c. of 90 per cent, alco- 
hol gradually added in quantities of i to 2 c.c., and finally 95 
per cent, alcohol until the filtrate does not give the slightest 
turbidity with 95 per cent, alcohol. The liquid is filtered 
after standing for twelve hours, most of the alcohol distilled 
off, and the remainder evaporated. The residue is dissolved 



ANALYTIC METHODS 



355 



in water, diluted to IOOO c.c.,and fermented at 20 with well- 
\\ashed beer yeast. After two or three days a little fresh 
yeast is added, and on the fourth day fermentation is complete. 
The concentrated liquor will show no dextrorotation if no gal- 
lisin was present. 

The following outline process for the detection of foreign 
bitter principles in beer is due to A. H. Allen : 37 



icooc.c. are evaporated half and precipitated boiling with lead acetate, the liquid boiled 
for fifteen minutes and filtered hot. If any precipitate occur on cooling, the liquid is 
again filtered. 



PRECIPITATE 


FILTRATE. The excess of lead is removed by .hydrogen sulfid, and the 


contains hof>- 
bitter, cara- 


filtered liquid concentrated to about 150 c.c. and tasted. If bitter, the 
liquid is slightly acidulated with dilute sulfuric acid, and shaken re- 


mel- bitter, 


peatedly with chloroform. 


of>helic acid 




(from rliir- 






etta), phos- 


CHLOROFORM LAYKR, on 


AQUEOUS LIQUID is shaken with ether. 


phates, albu- 
minous mat- 


evaporation, leaves a bit- 
ter extract in the case of 






ters, etc. 


gentian, calumba, quas- 


AQUEOUS LI- 




sia, and old hops (only 


a bitter residue in the 1 QUID, if 


slightlv or doubtfully bit- 
ter in the case of chiretta). The residue i\ 


case of chiretta, gen- ] still bitter. 
tian. or calumba. It is is rendered 


dissolved in a little alcohol, hot water 


dissolved in a little al- alkaline 


added, and the hot solution treated with 


cohol, hot water addvd, i and 


ammoniacal basic lead acetate and filtered. 


and the hot solution 


shaken 




treated with ammoni- 


with ether- 






acal basic lead acetate 


c hloro- 


PRECIPITATE contains old 


FILTRATE is 


and filtered. 


form. A 


hots, gentian, and traces 


boiled to re- 




bitter ex- 


off aramel products. It is 


move ammo- 






tract may- 


suspended in water, de- 
composed by hydrogen 


nia, and 
treated with 


P R K C I P I- 

TATE is 


FILTRATE 
is treated 


be due to 
berberin 


sulfid, and the solution 


a slight ex- 


treated 


with a 


(calumba) 


agitated with chloroform. 


cess of sul- 


with 


slight ex- 


or strych- 




furic acid, fil- 


water 


cess of di- 


nin. 






tered and 


and de- 


lute sul- 




CHLOROFORM 
I.AVKR is ex- 
amined by 
special tests 
for gentian 
and old hof>- 
bitter. 


AQUKOI s 

LI Q 1 1 1) 

contains 
traces of 
caramel- 
bitter. 


tasted. I f 
bitter, it is 
agitated 
with chloro- 
form, and 
the residue 
examined 
for calumba 


composed 
by hydro- 
gen sul- 
fid. The 
filtered 
liquid is 
bitter in 
presence 


furic 
acid, fil- 
tered and 
lasted. 
Bitter- 
ness indi- 
cates cal- 
umba or 


The aqueous 
liquid, 
separated 
from the 
ether-chlo- 
rofor m , 






and quassia. 


of gen- 


chiretta, 


may con- 








tian. 


which 


tain i in n- 












mel-bitter 










may be 
re-ex- 


or cholin. 










tracted 












withether 












and fur- 












ther ex- 












amined. 





356 FOOD ANALYSIS 

Methyl Alcohol. Crude methyl alcohol is sometimes added 
to ethyl alcohol to unfit it for use as a beverage. This prac- 
tice is not followed in the United States, but the invention of 
methods for refining methyl alcohol by which a nearly pure 
article is produced, has led to its use in adulterating ethyl 
alcohol and alcoholic beverages. S. P. Mulliken and H. 
Scudder have devised the following test. 

If the sample be a concentrated spirit, it should be diluted 
three or four times before taking a portion for test. When 
various organic bodies are present, as in malt liquors and 
tinctures, the sample should be distilled and the portion pass- 
ing over between 50 and 100 collected. This distillate 
should give a clear colorless solution when shaken with 
water. In some cases, as when acids or phenolic bodies are 
present, it will be advisable to add sodium hydroxid before 
distilling. 

A close spiral of about 2 cm. long is made by winding 
light copper wire around a lead-pencil. The metal is super- 
ficially oxidized by heating in the upper part of a burner 
flame, and while red hot plunged in 3 c.c. of the sample, 
diluted, if necessary, as above. The treatment is repeated at 
least once ; if the percentage of methyl alcohol is supposed 
to be small, the treatment should be repeated several times, 
cooling the liquid between each immersion. One drop of o. 5 
per cent, aqueous solution of resorcinol is added and the 
mixture poured cautiously upon strong sulfuric acid. A 
rose-red zone will be promptly developed if methyl alcohol 
was originally present. The hot wire converts the methyl 
alcohol into formaldehyde, which gives the color. Care must 
be taken not to use much resorcinol. If much ethyl alde- 
hyde be present in the sample, it will be of advantage to boil 
the liquid, after the hot wire treatment, in a flask attached to 
an inverted condenser, as ethyl aldehyde evaporates more 
readily under these conditions than formaldehyde. It is also 



ANALYTIC METHODS 357 

well to make a blank test with the resorcinol solution, sulfuric 
acid, and the untreated sample to determine if any bodies are 
present that simulate or mask the color reaction. 

I\>l<iri metric Examination. In the routine examination of 
wine polarimetric readings are taken directly (after clarifica- 
tion, if necessary). Sweet wines are examined directly, also 
after inversion and fermentation. The following are the direc- 
tions for these processes given by the A. O. A. C. : 

Clarification. For white wines, 60 c.c. of the sample- 
are mixed with 3 c.c. of lead subacetate solution and 3 c.c. 
of water and filtered. 33 c.c. of the filtrate are mixed with 
1. 5 c.c. of a saturated solution of sodium carbonate and 1.5 c.c. 
of water, again filtered, and examined in the polarimeter. 
The reading must be multiplied by 1.2 to compensate for the 
dilution. For red wines the same amount of sample is taken, 
and 6 c.c. of lead subacetate solution are used without addi- 
tion of water. 33 c.c. of the filtrate are treated with 3 c.c. 
saturated sodium carbonate solution, filtered, and the reading 
multiplied by 1.2. With sweeif wines 100 c.c. are mixed with 
2 c.c. of lead subacetate solution and 8 c.c. of water and fil- 
tered. 55 c.c. of the filtrate are mixed with 0.5 c.c. of satu- 
rated sodium carbonate solution and 4.5 c.c. of water, filtered, 
and the reading multiplied by 1.2 ; 33 c.c. of the filtrate, prior 
to the addition of the sodium carbonate, are mixed with 3 c.c. 
of hydrochloric acid and the liquid inverted according to the 
method on page 1 24. The liquid is cooled quickly, filtered, the 
reading taken at known temperature, and multiplied by 1.2. 
50 c.c. of the sample are freed from alcohol by concentration, 
made up to the original volume with water, mixed with some 
Well-washed beer yeast, and the mass kept at 30 until fer- 
mentation is complete, which will usually require from 48 to 
72 hours. The liquid is then transferred to 100 c.c. flask, a 
few drops of acid mercuric nitrate added (p. 213), then some 
lead subacetate solution, followed by the saturated sodium 



358 FOOD ANALYSIS 

carbonate solution. The flask is filled to the mark, the liquid 
mixed, filtered, and the reading multiplied by 2. 

The polari metric data obtained in the above examinations 
are interpreted according to the following schedule : 

If the direct examination shows no rotation, the sample may 
nevertheless contain invert-sugar associated with the dextro- 
rotatory unfermentable impurities of glucose or with sucrose. 
If inversion results in a levorotation, sucrose was present. If 
fermentation results in dextrorotation, it shows that invert- 
sugar (or some other levorotatory fermentable carbohydrate) 
and the unfermentable constituents of glucose were present. 
If the inversion or fermentation produces no change, sucrose, 
unfermentable constituents of glucose, and levorotatory sugars 
are absent. 

If the direct examination shows dextrorotation, sucrose and 
the unfermentable constituents of glucose may be present. 
If after inversion it is levorotatory, sucrose was present ; if 
dextrorotatory to more than 2.3 divisions of the sugar scale, 
the unfermentable impurities of glucose were present ; if the 
dextrorotation is less than 2.3 divisions and more than 0.9, a 
portion of the original specimen must be submitted to the 
following treatment: 210 c.c. are mixed with o.i gram of 
potassium acetate and evaporated to a thin sirup, which is 
mixed with 200 c.c. of 90 per cent, alcohol, with constant 
stirring, the solution is filtered, the alcohol removed by distil- 
lation until about 5 c.c. remain, the residue is mixed with 
washed bone-black, filtered into a graduated cylinder, and 
washed until the filtrate amounts to 30 c.c. If this filtrate 
shows a dextrorotation of more than 1.5 divisions on the 
sugar scale, the impurities of glucose were present. 

If the direct examination shows levorotation, and this is 
increased by inversion, sucrose and levorotatory sugar were 
present. If the sample after fermentation shows levorotation 
of 3 divisions, it contains only levorotatory sugars. If after 



MALT-EXTRACTS 359 

fermentation it rotates to the right, levorotatory sugars and 
the unfermentable impurities of glucose were present. 

MALT-EXTRACTS 

Some commercial malt-extracts are semi-solid mixtures of 
diastase with hydrolyzed starch, /. c., maltose, dextrose, and 
dextrin. No alcohol is present ; preservatives and coloring- 
matters are not Ijkely to be used. Other extracts are dark- 
colored liquids, containing from 3 to 7 per cent, of alcohol, 5 
to 15 per cent, of solids, mostly organic, but little, if any, 
active diastase. Preservatives are liable to be used in this 
class, salicylic acid being the most common. 

The usual examination of malt-extracts will involve detec- 
tion of preservatives (page 86), determination of alcohol, solid 
matter, and diastatic power. Qualitative tests for diastase 
may be made as follows : 50 c.c. of a solution of 5 grams 
arrowroot starch in 1000 c.c. of water are mixed with I gram 
of the extract to be tested, and the mixture heated in a 
water-bath within the limits of 35 and 45. Every few 
minutes a drop of the liquid is tested on a porcelain plate 
with a drop of iodin solution (page 35), until the blue color 
ceases. to appear. It is not worth while to continue the ex- 
periment beyond a half hour, as a malt-extract that will not 
transform the starch in that time is of little value. The solu- 
tion should not be acid. This method is of no value for 
quantitative measurement. For such purpose, it is necessary 
to estimate the reducing sugar formed in presence of a large 
amount of starch. 10 grams of arrowroot starch are stirred 
into about 100 c.c. of cold water, the mixture added, with 
constant stirring, to 250 c.c. of boiling water, -and the boiling 
continued until the starch is well diffused through the mass. 
The solution is diluted to 500 c.c. when cold. 50 c.c. of this 
solution are mixed with 0.5 gram of the sample and the mix- 
ture kept at a temperature between 35 and 45 for half an 



360 FOOD ANALYSIS 

hour. The reducing sugar is measured by the volumetric 
method described on page 1 16, care being taken that the liquid 
is sufficiently diluted. An experiment without addition of 
starch must be made to determine the amount of reducing 
substance in the extract. 

In some cases rough comparative approximations may be 
made by comparing the color produced by iodin at the end of 
the heating, but the liquid must be largely diluted, and the 
indications are merely suggestive. 



FLESH-FOODS 

Descriptions of anatomic and histologic characters of flesh- 
foods need not be given here. The following table, from data 
compiled by A. H. Allen, will show the principal constituents 
of meats from different classes of animals. The figures are 
percentages ; they must be regarded as approximations, as the 
analytic processes are still imperfect : 

MEAT FROM : WATKR. PROTEID. FAT. * ASH. 

Ox (lean), 76.7 20.7 1.5 .2 

Ox (fat), , 55.4 17.1 26.3 .1 

Mutton, . 76.0 17.1 5.7 .3 

Mutton (fat), 48.0 14.8 36.4 0.8 

Pig, 72.6 19.9 6.2 .1 

Horse, 74.3 21 6 2.5 .o 

Hare, 74.1 23.3 I.I .1 

Peer, . 75.7 19.7 1.9 .1 

Chicken, 76.2 19.7 1.4 .3 

Pigeon, 75.1 22.1 l.o .o 

Lobster, 76.6 19.1 i.i .1 

Oyster, 80.3 14.1 1.5 .7 

Herring, 74.6 14.5 9.0 .7 

Mackerel, 71.2 19.4 8.O .3 

Salmon 64.3 21.6 12.7 .3 

Cod, 82.2 16.2 0.3 .3 

ANALYTIC METHODS. 

Water. 5 grams of the finely divided material are dried 
according to the methods described on pages 37-41, Parsons' 
method being especially worth trial in this connection. 



FLESH-FOODS 361 

Ash. The dry residue obtained in the water determina- 
tion is incinerated according to the methods given on pages 

47-49- 

Total Nitrogen. The Kjeldahl-Gunning process is em- 
ployed. The nitrogen, multiplied by 6.25, will give an 
approximation to the proteids present. If nitrates are present, 
as will be the case with some preserved meats, the modified 
process, page 45, must be used. 

I : (jf. Much of the fat in meat-samples can be removed by 
mechanical methods, but some adheres obstinately to the 
muscle-tissue, and it is probable that errors have been made 
in this respect, as with condensed milk. It has been suggested 
that the muscle-tissue be digested with pepsin and hydro- 
chloric acid and the fat extracted from the mass. Good 
results have been claimed for the following process : 2 grams 
of the material are shaken frequently for six hours with 200 
c.c. of ether and 2 c.c. of mercury and the fat determined in 
an aliquot part of the mixture. 

Most investigators use too. much material. It is probable 
that results near enough for practical purposes could be 
obtained by continuous extraction for some hours of a few 
grams of the material, but care should be taken that the 
sample represents a fair average of the specimen and that it is 
very finely divided without loss of fat. If the fat is to be 
examined, a large amount of it should be extracted by 
mechanical means, and not with solvents, unless there are 
special reasons to the contrary. 

Adulteration. Meats are not adulterated in the sense in 
which that word is commonly used, but cheap meats are sub- 
stituted for dear (e. g., horse meat in sausages and mince- 
meat), the meat of diseased and immature animals is often 
sold, preservatives are employed, and applications made to 
improve color or texture. The detection of entozoa is a 
matter of importance. Tests for incipient and actual decom- 
31 



362 FOOD ANALYSIS 

position may be required. A large amount of canned meat 
is now sold. Much of it is free from adulteration. 

Horscflcsh.^-T\\Q detection of horseflesh is difficult. Many 
processes have been proposed, but they are all open to objec- 
tion. The principal reliance is upon the detection of glycogen, 
which is present in horseflesh in much greater proportion than 
in most other flesh. The following process, by Courlay and 
Coremons, seems to be the most trustworthy : 50 grams of 
the material, as fresh as possible, are finely divided and boiled 
for thirty minutes with 200 c.c. of water. The liquid is filtered 
when cold and tested with a few drops of potassium iodid- 
iodin solution (page 35). A brown tint, disappearing at 80 
and returning on cooling, indicates horseflesh. If starch be 
present, the original broth should be treated with several 
times its measure of strong acetic acid, and the test applied 
to the filtrate. The above test has been modified by T. Bas- 
tien, by increasing the time of boiling to one hour and allow- 
ing the liquid to concentrate to one-third of its original bulk. 
The quantity of iodin solution should be quite small, in which 
case it is said that horseflesh will give only a transient reddish- 
violet. The strength of the acetic acid is not given in the 
report of the method. 

H. Bremer states that the most definite test for horseflesh 
is the character of the intramuscular fat. For this test, all 
visible fat is removed from a sample, the mass finely minced, 
and heated in water for an hour at 100. The fat that floats 
is poured off with the water, the flesh washed several times 
with boiling water, dried for twelve hours at 100, and the 
material then extracted for several hours with petroleum 
spirit of low boiling-point. Part of the fat thus obtained may 
be set aside for the determination of iodin number, but most 
of it should be saponified, the excess of alkali carefully neu- 
tralized with acetic acid, and any alcohol that may have been 
used in the saponification removed by evaporation on the 



FLESH-FOODS 363 

water-bath. The glycerol-soda method would seem to be 
applicable here. The soap is dissolved in water, a hot solu- 
tion of zinc acetate added in the proportion of I part of the 
salt to 2 of fat, the precipitate washed with hot water and 
alcohol, pressed between folds of filter-paper, and heated with 
ten times its volume of anhydrous ether 'for thirty minutes 
under a reflux condenser. The solution is cooled, filtered 
into a separating funnel, mixed with dilute hydrochloric acid, 
the ethereal layer, which contains the acids, washed with 
water, and parts of it filtered into weighed flasks, the ether 
evaporated, and the iodin number determined. 

It is stated that horseflesh always gives a reddish- brown 
tint to the petroleum spirit solution, but bull's flesh also gives 
such a tint. If, however, glycogen has been detected by 
the tests already mentioned, the petroleum spirit solution is 
reddish-brown, the iodin number of the fat exceeds 65 and 
that of the liquid acids, obtained as above, is considerably 
over 95, the presence of horseflesh may be inferred. 

Coloring-matter. Meats are'-not infrequently colored to 
give them a fresh look or to improve naturally pale samples. 
Sausage meats are often colored. Carmine and coal-tar 
colors, especially the latter, are often employed. Fuchsin 
and eosin are among these, but Allen states that benzo- 
purpurin is the most common. The detection of artificial 
colors will generally be accomplished satisfactorily by the test 
on page 77. K. Spath has found that heating the material 
for a short time on the water-bath with a 5 per cent, solu- 
tion of sodium salicylate will often dissolve out colors not 
otherwise soluble. Ordinarily, water or alcohol will take out 
sufficient for the wool-test. For the detection of carmine, 
the method of Klinger and Hujard, modified by Bremer, 
should be used : 20 grams of the minced material are heated 
for several hours with a mixture of equal parts of glycerol 
and water slightly acidulated with tartaric acid. The yellow 



364 FOOD ANALYSIS 

liquid is freed from fat, filtered, and the coloring-matter pre- 
cipitated as a lake by the addition of alum and ammonium 
hydroxid. This is washed, dissolved in a little tartaric acid, 
and examined in the spectroscope. Absorption bands lying 
between the position of b and D of the solar spectrum are 
characteristic of carmine. 

Improvers and Preservatives. Mixtures of potassium ni- 
trate, sodium chlorid, and other mineral preservatives with a 
little coloring-matter the latter almost always a coal-tar 
color are sold for improving the appearance of meat. Sali- 
cylic acid, boric acid, and sulfites are also apt to be used, and 
should be sought for according to the methods given on pages 
86 to 91. As they are all soluble in cold water, they may 
be extracted by simple maceration, the watery solution being 
concentrated at a low temperature and treated as directed at 
the above reference. Formaldehyde is not likely to be used 
in meat on account of its hardening action on proteids. 

Putrefaction. To detect incipient putrefaction, Ebers pro- 
posed the following test : A rod moistened with a mixture of 
hydrochloric acid I c.c., alcohol 3 c.c., and ether I c.c. is 
held over the suspected material. The formation of fumes of 
ammonium chlorid shows that putrefaction has begun. Care 
must be taken not to mistake the fumes of the hydrochloric 
acid for those of ammonium chlorid. 

It has been proposed to detect putrefaction by macerating 
the finely divided material in water, cautiously distilling the 
liquid, best probably in a current of steam, and testing the 
distillate for phenol. The reactions noted on page 91 would 
probably be useful. In the early stages of decay phosphor- 
escent microbes are sometimes developed which render the 
meat luminous in the dark, but this is not common. 

Diseased and Immature Meats. The detection of these 
conditions are questions of pathology and veterinary medi- 
cine. Ebers attempted to devise a scheme for the detection 



FLESH-FOODS 365 

and estimation of the hydrogen sulfid evolved by diseased 
meat, but the work did not pass beyond the experimental 
stage. 

Infected Meats. The lower animals are subject to para- 
sitic diseases communicable to human beings. The most 
important are two species of so-called tapeworm and the 
Trichina spiralis. One species of tapeworm, Tienia saginata, 
is found in one stage of development in beef; another species, 
T. solinm, is found in pork. This condition is often termed 
" measles." Trichina spiralis is principally found in pork. 
Many other animal parasites are known, but recognition of 
them belongs to pathology and biology. 

Tienia saginata Goeze, also called T. mcdiocanncllata, occurs 
in beef as little white cysts among the muscular fibers, like 
knots in wood. The mature animal is developed from the 
cysts when the meat is eaten. It is the common tapeworm 
of the United States. 

Ttsnia so/turn L. occurs in the flesh of the hog. It differs 
from 7! saginata in the important fact that the latter can not 
pass through all its stages of development in the same ani- 
mal, while T. solinm can extend its infection to various 
organs of the host. 

Trichina spiralis Owen is a worm that occurs in hog-flesh 
as light-colored cysts, smaller than a pin's head, and usually 
lying with the long diameter in the direction of the muscular 
fiber. The cysts contain immature worms, which are released 
when the cyst is digested ; the worm quickly reaches matur- 
ity, muliplies rapidly, and distributes itself through various 
tissues of the host. 

The detection of the various parasites of meat can often be 
attained by examining with a good hand-glass. With higher 
powers, the organism can be seen in more detail. 

Canned Meats. These are now usually prepared on a 



366 FOOD ANALYSIS 

very large scale at establishments under inspection and hence 
are but little liable to adulteration. Preservatives, except 
common salt and niter, are not likely to be employed. If any 
other preservative should be used it will probably be boric acid 
or possibly salicylic acid, either of which can be easily detected 
in the extract with cold water by methods given elsewhere. 
Tin and sometimes lead are absorbed in small amounts from 
the can or solder. These may be tested for by the methods 
given on page 69. Careful examination under moderate 
magnifying power will detect parasitic infection. 

Meat-extracts. These are now offered in great variety. 
Some contain partly digested proteids (proteoses and peptones), 
but in many cases the most abundant nitrogenous ingredients 
are the so-called meat-bases, a class of amido-derivatives of 
which kreatin, kreatinin, and xanthin are examples. 

Many investigations of these preparations have been made, 
but the processes of analysis are still in dispute and the 
results obtained by different observers are often discordant. 
The following methods are compiled from the works of 
A. H. Allen 38 and C. A. Mitchell. 39 

Water, Ash, and Total Nitrogen are determined as indicated 
under those titles in the introductory part. 

Fat is usually present in but small amount, and is extracted 
more accurately by petroleum spirit than by ether, applying 
the methods described on pages 49 to 53. 

Insoluble matter, which may include some meat-fiber, is 
determined by treating from 5 to 25 grams (depending on 
whether the preparation is solid or liquid) with cold water, 
filtering, and drying the residue at 100. A microscopic 
examination of this should be made. 

Proteids, Peptones, and Meat-bases. The following method 
has been suggested by A. H. Allen, partly from his own 
experiments and partly from those of A. Bomer : 



FLESH-FOODS 367 

50 c.c. of a solution of a known weight of the sample, of 
such strength as to contain about 1.5 grams of nitrogenous 
bodies, are freed from insoluble material, mixed with I c.c. of 
diluted sulfuric acid (i to 4), and saturated with zinc sulfate 
by stirring in the powdered salt until no more dissolves. Zinc 
sulfate containing the full amount of water of crystallization 
dissolves in about half its weight of water at room tempera- 
ture, but the commercial salt is usually partly effloresced, and 
will often cake when added to the solution. When the liquid 
is saturated with zinc sulfate, the precipitate is assumed to 
contain all the albumin and gelatin and immediate derivatives 
(proteoses), but no peptone. It is separated by filtration, 
washed with a saturated solution of zinc sulfate, and the filter 
and precipitate treated by the Kjcldahl-Gunning method. The 
nitrogen obtained, multiplied by 6.25, will give approximately 
the amount of nitrogenous bodies precipitated. 

The filtrate and washings are made up to 200 c.c., mixed, 
and loo c.c. transferred to a flask of the larger form described 
on page 42, enough hydrochloric acid added to make the liquid 
strongly acid to litmus, and then bromin water by moderate 
portions, with active shaking or stirring, until there is an 
excess of bromin present. The precipitate may be flocculent 
at first, but most of it soon becomes viscous and adherent. It 
is allowed to stand until the free portions have settled, when 
it is decanted through an asbestos filter either in a Gooch cru- 
cible or in an apparatus similar to that described on page 1 20. 
The precipitate is washed several times with cold water con- 
taining some hydrochloric acid and bromin, but it is advisable 
to keep the washings at first separate from the main filtrate. 
The contents of the filter-tube are returned to the vessel in 
which the precipitation was made, 10 c.c. of sulfuric acid 
added, and the mass cautiously treated until it chars and 
vapors of bromin are evolved, after which 10 grams of potas- 
sium sulfate are added and the operation conducted as 



368 FOOD ANALYSIS 

described on pages 44 and 45. The nitrogen, multiplied by 
6.33, will give approximately the peptone. 

By deducting from the total nitrogen the sum of the nitro- 
gen figures obtained from the zinc sulfate and bromin precipi- 
tates, and multiplying the remainder by 3.12, an approxima- 
tion to the meat-bases will be obtained. These meat-bases 
are in the filtrate from the bromin precipitate, but the bromin, 
hydrochloric acid, and zinc sulfate will be likely to interfere 
with the determination of the nitrogen. The zinc sulfate can 
be removed by cautious addition of either potassium carbon- 
ate or barium hydroxid, but the bromin will be apt to form 
hypobromites, which will promptly decompose some of the 
amido-compounds, with evolution of nitrogen. 

A more satisfactory plan seems to be that outlined by 
K. Baumann and A. Bomer : The remaining portion, 100 c.c., 
from the zinc sulfate precipitate is mixed with excess of so- 
dium phosphomolybdate (see page 275), by which the meat- 
bases, peptones, and ammonium compounds are precipitated. 
This precipitate is removed by filtration under pressure, so as 
to draw out as much as possible of the mother-liquor, and 
the nitrogen determined as usual. The nitrogen due to pep- 
tone being known, that due to meat-bases and ammonium 
compounds can be calculated. To determine the ammonium 
compounds, a known weight of the original sample should be 
distilled with barium carbonate, the distillate being collected 
in a known quantity of standard acid, which is afterward 
titrated. 

Meat-extracts sometimes contain coagulable proteids. 
These may be estimated by rendering the filtered solution 
distinctly acid with acetic acid and boiling for five minutes. 
The coagulum may be weighed directly or the nitrogen in it 
estimated by the Kjeldahl-Gunning method and multiplied by 
6.25 for albumin. 



FLESH -FOODS 369 

As solutions of protcids, proteoses, and peptones are strongly 
levorotatory, while most of the meat-bases that occur in these 
extracts are inactive, some information might be gained by 
examining the liquid from the zinc sulfate precipitate in the 
polarimeter. A solution that had no appreciable optic activity 
would not be likely to contain much peptone. Another 
special test that may be applied to this liquid is the so-called 
biuret reaction. A. Homer applies this as follows : The filtrate 
from the zinc sulfate precipitation is decolorized by shaking 
with animal charcoal and the zinc sulfate decomposed by excess 
of sodium carbonate or cautious addition of barium hydroxid. 
The filtered solution is rendered alkaline with sodium hydroxid 
and a drop or two of very dilute solution of copper sulfate 
added. Peptones give a rose-red tint. 

Preservatives may be added to meat-extracts, although this 
is not usual. Boric acid will be most likely to be used, and 
the methods on page 89 will suffice for its detection. Pois- 
onous metals are* not likely to be present, but may be sought 
for, if deemed necessary, by the methods given on pages 68 
to 72. 



APPENDIX 



ADDENDA 

To page 237 : 

So-called "process" or "renovated" butter, made by 
rendering old or inferior samples, purifying the fat, coloring, 
salting, and molding it, is now a familiar commercial article. 
Process butter when heated in a dish sputters with but little 
foaming, as does oleomargarin ; but yields with alcoholic 
soda the pineapple odor, as does butter. The fat of process 
butter gives refractometric data and Reichert-Meissl number 
similar to those of ordinary dairy butter, but is said to give a 
different figure with Valenta's test. Precise information on 
the last point is not at hand. If, therefore, a sample sputters in 
the pan, but gives the other reactions for butter, as just noted, 
it may be assumed to be process butter. W. H. Hess and 
R. E. Doolittle have ascertained that the curd of process but- 
ter has characteristic qualities, and have devised the following 
method for detecting it : 

50 grams of the sample are melted in a beaker at about 
50. Ordinary butter yields a clear fat almost as soon as 
melted, while with process butter the fat may remain turbid 
for a long while. When the curd has largely settled, as much 
of the fat is poured off as possible, and the remaining mix- 
ture is thrown on a wet filter, by which the water will drain 
away, carrying the soluble proteids and salt. A few drops 
of acetic acid are added to the filtrate and the mixture is 
boiled. The filtrate from ordinary butter gives but a slight 
milkiness, but that from process gives a flocculent precipitate. 

Quantitative examination is made by dissolving 50 grams 



ADDENDA 371 

of the sample in ether; if it is ordinary butter, the curd is so 
finely divided that it remains suspended for some time. As 
much as possible of the solution is decanted and the mass 
transferred to a separator, the casein, water, and salt removed, 
and the remainder washed three times, at least, with ether to 
remove the fat. The curd is collected on a filter, washed 
with water, and the nitrogen determined by treating the pre- 
cipitate with the filter by the Kjeldahl-Gunning method. The 
filtrate from the curd is made slightly acid with acetic acid, 
boiled, the precipitated proteids collected on a filter, and the 
total nitrogen determined. The factor 6.25 may be used in 
each case for converting the nitrogen into proteids. 

A distinction between ordinary and process butter may 
often be made by microscopic examination under polarized 
light with crossed nicols (i. e., dark field), when the process 
butter appears mottled, owing to the presence of crystals. 

To page 239 : 

J. F. Geisler found paraffin in oleomargarin ; his observa- 
tion has been confirmed by several other chemists. Geisler 
uses the specific gravity of the rendered fat as a sorting test, 
making special examination only of samples that show below 
0.9018 at 3!^- Microscopic examination under polarized 
light, with and without selenite, will often show amorphous 
masses of paraffin mixed with the crystals of fat. To isolate 
the paraffin, Geisler saponifies 2.5 grams of the fat with 20 
c.c. of alcohol and I gram of potassium hydroxid, and dilutes 
the liquid with an equal bulk of water. By alternately heat- 
ing and cooling the liquid much of the unsaponifiable matter 
may be collected. It is also possible to isolate it by the pro- 
cess given on page 165, or by destroying the fat by strong 
sulfuric acid. It must be borne in mind that most fats contain 
notable amounts of unsaponifiable matter, and hence the 
material must be identified as paraffin. 



372 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF 
Water at o = 0.99987 



WATER FROM 
Water at 4 = 



TO 100 

= I.OOOOO 



I 0.99992 


26 0.99686 


51 0.98772 


76 0.97438 


2 96 


27 60 


52 25 


77 0.97377 


3 99 


28 33 


53 0.98677 


78 16 


4 i.ooooo 


29 05 


54 29 


79 0.97255 


5 0.99999 


3 -99576 


55 0.98581 


80 0.97194 


6 97 


3i 77 


56 34 


81 32 


7 93 


32 47 


57 0.98486 


82 0.97070 


8 88 


33 0.99485 


58 37 


83 07 


9 82 


34 52 


59 0.98388 


84 0.96943 


10 74 


35 18 


60 38 


85 0.96879 


TI 65 


36 0.99383 


6 i 0.98286 


86 15 


12 54 


37 47 


62 34 


87 0.96751 


13 43 


38 10 


63 0.98182 88 0.96687 


14 29 


39 0.99273 


64 28 89 22 


15 16 


40 35 


65 0.98074 


90 0.96556 


16 oo 


41 0.99197 


66 19 


91 0.96490 


17 0.99884 


42 58 


67 0.97964 


92 23 


18 65 


43 18 


68 08 


93 0.96356 


19 46 


44 0.99078 


69 0.97851 


94 0.96288 


20 25 


45 37 


70 0.97794 


95 '9 


21 04 


46 0.98996 


71 36 


96 0.96149 


22 0.99782 


47 54 


72 0.97677 


97 0.96079 


23 60 


48 10 


73 18 


98 08 


24 36 


49 0.98865 


74 0.97558 


99 0.95937 


25 12 


50 19 


75 0.97498 


100 0.95866 



THERMOMETKIC TABLE 373 

CORRESPONDENCE OF CENTIGRADE AND FAHRENHEIT DEGREES 








I 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


20 


392.0 


393-8 


395-6 


397-4 


399-2 


401.0 


402.8 


404.6 


406.4 


408.2 


19 


374-0 


375-8 


377-6 


379-4 


381.2 


383-0 


384.8 


386.6 


388.4 


390.2 


18 


356.0 


357-8 


359-6 


361-4 


363-2 


365.0 


366.8 


368.6 


370-4 


372.2 


17 


338-0 


339-8 


341.6 


3434 


345-2 


347-0 


348.8 


350-6 


352-4 


354-2 


16 


320.0 


321.8 


323-6 


325-4 


327-2 


329.0 


330.8 


332-6 


334-4 


336.2 


15 


302.0 


303-8 


305.6 


307-4 


309.2 


311.0 


312.8 


3M.6 


316.4 


318.2 


14 


284.0 


285.8 


287.6 


289.4 


291.2 


293.0 


294.8 


296.6 


298.4 


300.2 


'3 


266.0 


267.8 


269.6 


271.4 


273.2 


275.0 


276.8 


278.6 


280.4 


282.2 


12 


248.0 


249.8 


257-6 


253-4 


255-2 


257.0 


258.8 


260.6 


262.4 


264.2 


II 


230.0 


231.8 


233-6 


235-4 


237.2 


239.0 


240.8 


242.6 


244.4 


246.2 


10 


212.0 


213.8 


215.6 


217.4 


219.2 


221.0 


222.8 


224.6 


226.4 


228.2 


9 


194.0 


195.8 


197.6 


199.4 


201.2 


203.0 


204.8 


206.6 


208.4 


210.2 


8 


176.0 


177.8 


179.6 


181.4 


183.2 


185.0 


186.8 


188.6 


190.4 


192.2 


7 


158.0 


159.8 


161.6 


163-4 


1.65.2 


167.0 


168.8 


170.6 


172.4 


174.2 


6 


I4O.O 


141.8 


1436 


145-4 


147.2 


149-0 


150.8 


152.6 


"54-4 


156.2 


5 


122.0 


123.8 


125.6 


127.4 


129.2 


I3I.O 


132.8 


134-6 


136-4 


138.2 


4 


I04.O 


105.8 


107.6 


109.4 


III. 2 


H3.0 


II4.8 


116.6 


118.4 


120.2 


3 


86.0 


87.8 


89.6 


91.4 


93-2 


95-P 


96.8 


98.6 


100.4 


102.2 


2 


68.0 


69.8 


716 


73-4 


75-2 


77-o 


78.8 


80.6 


82.4 


84.2 


I 


50.0 


51-8 


53-6 


55-4 


57-2 


59.0 


60.8 


62.6 


64-4 


66.2 





32.0 


33-8 


35-6 


37-4 


39-2 


41.0 


42.8 


44-6 


46-4 


48.2 


15.55 c - = 6 F - 







-I 


-2 


-3 


-4 


-5 


-6 


-7 


-8 


-9 





32.0 


30.2 


28.4 


26.6 


4.8 


23.0 


21.2 


19.4 


17.6 


15.8 


-I 


14.0 


12.2 


10.4 


8.6 


6.8 


5-o 


3-2 


M 


-0.4 


-2.2 


-2 


-4.0 


5-8 


-7.6 


-94 


-II. 2 


-13-0 


-14-8 


-16.6 


-18.4 


-20. 2 


-3 


-22.0 


-23-8 


-25.6 


-27-4 


-29.2 


-31.0 


-32.8 


-34-6 


-36.4 


-38.2 



-40 C. = -40 F. 



374 



FOOD ANALYSIS 



ELEMENTS, SYMBOLS, AND ATOMIC WEIGHTS 

Corrected according to list published in the Journal of the American Chemical Society t 

February, 1901. 



Aluminum, .... 
Antimony, .... 


Al 
Sb 


27.1 
120.4 


Needy mium, . . . 
Neon, 


Nd 
Ne 


143-6 
20 


Argon, 


A 


jq.q 


Nickel, 


Ni 


c8 7 


Arsenicum, . . 
Barium, 


As 
Ba 


75-0 
177.4 


Nitrogen, .... 
Osmium, . . 


N 
Os 


14.04 

IOI 


Bismuth, . ... 
Boron, 


Bi 
B 


208. 1 
II 


i Oxygen, .... 
Palladium, .... 



Pd 


16 

IO7 


Bromin, 


Br 


7Q.Q 


Phosphorus, 


p 


7T 


Cadmium, .... 
Calcium, .... 


Cd 
Ca 


112.4 
40. 1 


Platinum, .... 
Potassium, .... 


Pt 
K 


194.9 

7Q I I 


Carbon, 


c 


12 


Praseodymium, . . 


Pr 


IAO C 


Cerium 
Cesium, 


Ce 
Cs 


139 
I !2.Q 


Rhodium, .... 
Rubidium, . . 


Rh 
Rb 


103 

8s 4 


Chlorin 


Cl 


75.41; 


Ruthenium, . . . 


Ru 


101 7 


Chromium, .... 
Cobalt, 


Cr 
Co 


52-1 

so 


Samarium, .... 
Scandium, .... 


Sm 
Sc 


150-3 

AA \ 


Columbium, . . . 
Copper. 


Cb 
Cu 


93-7 
6^.6 


Selenium, .... 
Silicon, . . . 


Se 
Si 


79-2 

28 4 


Erbium, .... 


p 


1 66 


Silver, 


Ag 


IO7.Q2 


Fluorin, 


F 


IQ.O? 


Sodium, . ... 


Na 


27. OS 


Gadolinium, . . . 
Gallium, 


Gd 
Ga 


157 
7O 


Strontium, .... 
Sulfur, 


Sr 

s 


87.6 
32 O7 


Germanium, . . . 
Glucinum, .... 
Gold, 


Ge 
Be 
Au 


72-5 
9 .I 
IQ7 2 


Tantalum, .... 
Tellurium, .... 


Ta 
Te 
Tb 


182.8 
127-5 

160 


Helium, 


He 


4.O 


Thallium, 


Tl 


204 is 


Hydrogen, .... 
Indium 


T_T 

In 


1.008 
114 


Thorium, .... 
Thulium, . . 


Th 
Tm 


232.6 

I7O.7 


lodin, 


I 


126 85 


Tin 


Sn 


I IQ 


Iridium, ..... 
Iron, 


Ir 
Fe 


I93-I 

ce Q 


Titanium, .... 


Ti 
W 


48.15 
184 


Krypton, . . 


Kr 


8l 8 




u 


2 TO 6 


Lanthanum, . . . 
Lead, 


La 
Pb 


138.6 
206 92 


Vanadium, .... 


V 

x 


51-4 
128 


Lithium, .... 


Li 


7 O1 




Yb 


1772 


Magnesium, .... 


Mg 


24.7 


Yttrium, 


Y 


80 


Manganese 


Mn 


55 


Zinc, 


Zn 


6*5.4 


Mercury, .... 


He 


2OO 




Zr 




Molybdenum, . . . 


Mo 


9 6 









REFERENCES 



Laurent. Das optische DrehungsvermOgen. 
Hull. 46, Rev. Kd., U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 
Hull. 176, U. S. Geological Survey. 
Dingler's Polyt. Jour., iJ32 (1879), 461. 
J. A. C. S., 1899, 258. 
J. C. S., 1883, 551. 
J. A. C. S., 1901, 12. 
Com'l Org. Anal., I, 66. 

' III, 1, 497-8-9- 

10 Bull. 59, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

1 1 n u < (i 

12 " 13.5," 

13 l< 

14 <> 

18 J. A. C. S., 1901, 60-1. 
18 Com'l Org. Anal., I, 371-2. 

17 Bull. 123 (1896), Connecticut Agric. Exp. Station. 

18 Analyst, 1897, 287. (The reference is misplaced ; see list of corrections.) 

19 Com'l Org. Anal., II, 1, 85. 

20 Chem. Anal. Oils, Fats, and Waxes, 165. 
' J. A. C. S., 1900,453; 1901, l. 

22 J. A. C. S., 1897, 796. 
28 Analyst, 1890, 170. 
J. A. C. S., 1896,428. 
25 J. A. C. S., 1900, 207. 
8 J. A. C. S., 1898, no. 

27 J. A. C. S., 1898, 207. 

28 Bull. 13, 7, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

29 Food Adulteration and its Detection. 

80 Bull. 13, 7, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

81 Com'l Org. Anal., Ill, 2, 547. 

82 Analyst, 1899, 281. 

88 See Zeit. Anal. Chem., Jan., 1901, fora new process for separating theo 

bromin and caffein from cacao. 
84 Bull. 13, 7, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

88 Mikroskopie der Nahrungs und Genussmitlel. 
i K < < <( 

87 Com'l Org. Anal., I, 545. 
as t iv. 

89 Flesh -Foods. 



375 





Potato. 



Arrowroot. 



Wheat. 









Bean. 



Pea. 



Barley. 







* 






0G 




Rye. 






Rice. 



Maize. 



Ginger. 








Sago. 



V 










Buckwheat. 




Oat. 



1. Tea ( Thea chinensis Link.). 

2. Mate (Ilex faragitayensis Lam- 
bert). 

3. Thea japonica Baillon. 

4. Hawthorn (Crat&gus sp.). 

5. Box elder (Negundo aceroides 
Moench.). 

6. Horse chestnut (^Esculus hippocas- 
tanum L. ). 

7. Sycamore (Platanus occidentalis 
L.). 

8. Rose (Rosa sp.). 

9. Plum (Prunus sp.). 

10. Elm (U/musfulva Michx.). 



11. Ash (Fra xinus sp. ). 

12. Willow (Salix sp.). 

13. Willow (Sa/ixsp.). 

14. Beech (Fagus ferruginea Ait.). 

15. Oak ( Quercus sp. ) . 

1 6. Missouri currant (Kibes aureum 
Pursh.). 

17. Ash (Fraxinus sp. ). 

18. Red currant (Ribes rubrum L.). 

19. Birch (Betula lenta L.). 

20. Poplar (Populus alba L.). 

21. Raspberry (Rubus sp.). 

22. New Jersey Tea ( Ceanothus Ameri- 
canus L. ). 



INDEX 



ABRASTOI., 84 
Acetyl number, 162 

value, 162 

Acidity, total, 349 
Acid mercuric iodid, 230 

nitrate, 213 



value, 150 



Acorn starch. 95 
Acrinyl isothiocyanate, 318 
Adams' method, 203 
African pepper, 303 
Albumin, 193, 210, 212 
Albuminoid nitrogen, 46 
Alcohol, detection, 342 

determination, 343 

ethyl, 64 

methyl, 65 

-detection, 356 



tables, 344-5-6 



Alcoholic beverages, 326 

Ale. 332. 333 

Allen, A. H.,9,17, 28,31, 68,69,78, 
109, 118, 140, 141, 182, 260, 261, 
286, 287, 289, 305, 306, 319, 326, 

333. 355. 36o. 363, 366 
Allihn's method, 119, 121 
Allspice. 311 
Allyl isothiocyanate, 317 
Almen's reagent, 21 1 
Alum in bread, 107 
in flour, IOI 
Alumina-cream, 123 
Ammonium in baking powders, 113 
Amphoteric milk, 194 
Angell, A., 145 
Annatto, detection, 217, 220 
Apple brandy, 329 

whiskey, 329 

Arata's test, 77 
Arachidic acid, 178 
ArachiHin, 177 
Arachis oil, 177 
Arclibutt, 1.., 151, 178, 180 



377 



Archil in wine, 352 
.Arrow-root starch, 94 
Arsenic, detection, 71 
Asaprol, 84 
Aschmann F. J. , 225 
Ash, 47 

Ashby, A., 288 
Astruc, H., 340 
Axtell, F. C.,58 



BABCOCK'S method, 202, 204 
Baking powders, IIO 

soda, 109 

Ballantyne, H., 152 
I l.uian a starcl), 94 
Barium in pepper, 305 
Barley, 101, 103 

starch, 95 

Bases, meat-, 366 
Battershall, J. B., 254, 256 
Baudouin's test, 170 
Baumann, A., 368 
Beam, W., 146, 205 
Bean Hour, 103 

starch, 95 
Bechi's test, 169 
Beckmann, E. O., 135-137 
Beef fat, 191 

stearin, 189 
Beer, 332 

- root, 334 
Bell,]., 277 
Benzene, 65 
Benzoates, 88 
Benzoic acid, 84, 88 
Berthelot.M., 21, 148 
Beurre rouge, 239 
Bevan, E. J., 223 
Bigelow, W. D., 89, 103, 230 
Bird pepper, 303 
Birotation, 215 
Bitters in beer, 355 



378 



INDEX 



Bitteryst, A., 280 

Hiuret reaction, 369 

Bjorkland's test, 183 

Blue milk, 224 

Blytb, A. W., 107, 243, 261, 304 

Hodmer, R., 70 

Boiled milk, detection, 223 

Boiling-point, 21 

Bomer, A., 366, 368 

Borax, 85, 89 

Boric acid, 85, 89 

Borntrager, A , 312 

Borofluorids, 86, 90 

Boseley, L. K., 211, 223, 325 

Bouquet, 335 

Brandy, 330 

apple. 33 
Bread, 105 

commercial, 106 
Bremer, H., 362 
Bromas, 282 

Bromin, thermal value, 152 
Brown, J. C., 297, 300, 302 
Buckwheat, 101, 104 

starch, 96 

Bumping, prevention, 54, 59 
Burners, 62, 63 
Batter, 231 
cacao-, 182 

colors, 237 

composition, 232 

fat, 191 

milk, 196 

peanut, f77 

vegetable, 182 

Butyrorefractometer, 157 



CACAO, 274 

butter, 18.2 

essence, 278 

husks, 278 

masse, 278 

red, 276 

starch, 95 
Caffearin, 262 
Caffein, 252, 263, 271, 275 

determination, 257, 268 

Caffetannic acid, 262 

Caldwell, G. C., 37 

Candies, 138 

Cane-sugar, 113, 126, 219 

Canna starch, 94 

Caper tea, 256 

Caramel, 127, 129, 272, 352 



Carr, O., 39 
Caryophyllin, 315 
Casein, 192, 210, 212 
Cassal, C. A., 270 
Cassia, 312 

- ore, 314 
Catsup, 323 
Centrifuge, 61 
Cereals, 99 
Champagne, 3 ]6 
Chandler, C. F., 27 
Chattaway, W. A., 151, 244, 247 



Chicory, 266 
Chillies, 303 
Ching suey, 256 
Chittendcn, R. II., loo 
Chocolate, 274 

nuts, 277 
Cholesterol, 1 60 
Chromium, detection, 69 
Cider, 326 

- vinegar, 284 
Cinnamon, 312 

oil, 314 

- starch, 95 
Clove oil, 315 
Cloves, 315 

Cobalt nitrate test, 1 13 

Cochineal, 67 

Cochran, C. B , 190, 196, 197, 198 

Cocoa, 274 

Cocoas, soluble, 278 

Coconut oil, 182 

olein, 182 

- stearin, 182 
Coffee, 262 

- essence, 273 

- extracts, 273 
Colors, 72-82 

- in butter, 237 

- in candies, 139 

- in meat, 363 

- in milk, 217, 218 

- in wine, 351 

- test for oiU, 141 
Colostrum, 198 

Colza oil, 181 
Condensed milk, 225 
Condenser, 42, 57 
Condiments, 283 
Confections, 138 
Congou paste, 256 

- tea, 254 
Constants for oils, 168 



INDEX 



379 



('upper, detection, 69 

by < I n >x i<l mixture, 46 

in bread, 108 

in flour, 102 

< >ri;inder seed, 301 
Corn, Dhoura, 300 

oil, 170 

Cottonseed oil, 175 

stearin, 175 
Counley, A. T., 70, 257 
Cox, G. S., 204, 326 
Crampton, C. A., Ill, 130, 239,352 
Cream, 196 

evaporated, 225 

of tartar, 109 

Crude fiber, 46 
Cumarin, 321 



DAVY, E. W., 342 
De Koningb, L. , 144 
Delican's liter-test, 20 
Desserts, 324 
Dextrin in boney, 135 

in wine, 349 
Dextrosazone, 114 
Dextrose, determination, 116 
Dhoura corn, 300 

starch , 300 

Distillation, 54 
Doolittle, R. E., 370 
Drying of oils, 158 
ovens, 37 

property, 158 

Dry wine, 336 
Dupouy, R., 223 
Dyer, B., 270, 313 



ELEAUIN test, 156 
Electrolytic apparatus, 122 

methods, 65 

Elements. 374 
Ergot, 102 
Erucin, 181 
Essence of cacao, 278 

of coffee, 273 

Ether purification, 50 

Eugenic acid, 315 

Eugenol, 315 

Evaporated cream, 225 

Ewell, E. E., 215, 217, 281, 282 

Extract, 36 

Extraction apparatus, 49, 52 



Extracts, coflee, 273 

malt, 359 

meat, 366 

FACING coffee, 265 

tea, 255, 258 

Farnsteiner, K., 283 

Fat of milk, 192 

Fats, 140 

Fehling's solution, Il6 

Fermented milk, 248 

Fiber, crude, 46 

Filter-tubes, 117, 1 20 

Flesh-foods, 360 

Flour, 98, 101 

Fluorescence, 31 

Fluorids, 86, 90 

Foreign leaves in tea, 260 

Formaldehyde, 84, 90, 220 

Formalin, 84, 220 

Fractional distillation, 60 

Fuchsin in wine, 352 

Furfural test, 170 

Fusel oil, determination, 353 



GALACTOSAZONK, 115 
Gallisin, 130, 354 
Geisler, J. F., 226, 237, 371 
Gelatin, detection, 219, 324 
German beer, 332 
Gerrard, A. W., 118 
Gin, 331 
Ginger, 305 

starch, 94 

Gingli oil, 180 
Gliatlin, 98 
Globulin, 193 
Glucose, 130 

vinegar, 284 

Glutenin. 98, 
Glycerol in wine, 350 

soda, 146 
Glycogen, 362 
Gomberg, H., 257 
Graham flour, loi 
< li ape-juice vinegar, 284 
Grape-sugar, 130 
Gum in wine, 349 
Gutzert's test, 72 
Gypsum in bread, 108 

HAOKR, H., 9, 183, 260, 342 
Halphen's test, 169 



380 



INDEX 



Hardy, J., 342 

Hehner, O., 145, 152, 185, 207, 221, 
231, 270, 286, 289 

value, 158 
Heisch, C., 294, 296 
Henzold, O., 294 

Hess, W. H., 54, 320, 370 

Hollands, 331 

Honey, 132 

Hopkins, C. G., 176, 177 

Horseflesh, detection, 362 

Hilbl's reagent, 142 

Hydrometers, 15 

ICE-CREAM,*324 

Immiscible solvents, 53 
Improvers, meat, 364 
Index of refraction, 157 
Infected milks, 224 
Insoluble acids, 158 
Inversion methods, 124, 228 
Invert-sugar, 113, 119, 230 
lodin number, 142 

value, 142 
Irish whiskey, 330 

JAMS, 324 

Jean, F., 236 

Jellies, 324 

Jones, B. W., 189, 235 

KAYSER, R., 326 

Kefyr, 249 

Kjeldahl-Gunning method, 41 

Knorr, A. E., 52, in, 117 

Konig, J., 138, 249, 263, 272, 307, 

3^3 

Kottstorfer number, 148 

Kraemer, H , 103, 105 

Kreatin, 366 

Kreatinin, 366 

Krug, W. H., 96 

Kumiss, 248 

Kunze, W. E., 274, 275 

LACTOSAZONE, 115 
Lactose, l^r, 193, 213 
Ladd, E. F., 257 
Lager beer, 332 
Lard, 184 

Laurent polarimeter, 29 . 
Laureol, 182 
Laurin, 182 



Leach, A. E., 218, 227 
Lead, detection, 69 

number, 297 

subacetate, 123 

Leavening materials, 109 
Leffmann-Beam method, 205 
Leguminous flours, 103 
Lemon juice, 322 

sirup, 322 

Lentil starch, 95 
Leonard, N., 91 
Levulosazone, 214 
Lewkowitsch, J., 141, 189 
Lieben's test, 342 
Lie tea, 255 
Lignoceric acid, 178 
Litmus, 66 
Livache's test, 158 
Long pepper, 301 
Low, A. H., 238 
Low-pressure distillation, 58 
Low wine, 284, 328 
Lubricants, 59 
Lythgoe, H. C. , 219 



MACE, 308 

false, 310 
Maize, 101, 103, 105 

oil, 176 

starch, 96 

Malt extract, 97, 359 

liquors, 331 
Maltosazone, 115 
Malt vinegar, 284 
Maple sugar, 132 

syrup, 132 

Maranta starch, 94 
Marmalade, 325 
Matthews, J. M., 78 
Maumene's test, 151 
McElvoy, K. P., 112,230 
McGill, A., 13, 269 
Mead, 334 

Meade, R. K., 65 

Meal, 98 

Meat bases, 366 

extracts, 366 

Meats, canned, 365 

infected, 365 

Meissl, E., 146 
Melting-point, 16 
Mercuric iodid, acid, 230 
nitrate acid, 213 



Metals, poisonous, 68 



INDEX 



381 



Methyl alcohol, 65 

detection, 356 



orange, t6 
Microscope, 32 
Milk, 192 

boiled, 195 
Miscihle solvents, 49 

Mitchell, C. A., 152, 185, 231, 366 

Mixed Hours, 103 

Moeller, J., 255, 298 

Mohr's cubic centimeters, 29 

Molasses, 128 

Moor, C. G., 70, 151, 225, 244, 247, 

273, 286, 287, 306 
Mother cloves, 315 

starch, 94 

Mulliken, S. P., 356 
Must, 335 
Mustaul, 317 

oil, 317 

Muter, T., 93, 144 
Myristic acid, 307 
Myronic acid, 317 
Myrosin, 317 



NAPHTHOI., 84, 91 
Nickel detection, 69 
Nitric acid test, 141 
Nitrogen, albuminoid, 46 

total, 41 
Normal weight, 29 
Nucoline, 182 
Nutmeg, 307 

oil, 307 

Nutshells, 299 



OATS, 101, 103 
Oat starch, 96 
Ogden, A. W., 132 
Oil, arachis, 177 

cassia, 314 

cinnamon, 314 

cloves, 315 

coconut, 182 

colza, 181 
corn, 176 

cottonseed, 175 

gingli, 1 80 

maize, 176 

mustard, 317 

nutmeg, 307 

olive, 171 
pepper, 292 



Oil, rape, 181 

sesame, 180 
teel, 

Oleomargarin, 234 
Oleorefractometer, 157 
Olive oil, 172 

stones, 297 

Original solids, 286 
Osborne, T. B., 39, 98, 100 
Ovens, 37, 39 



PARAFFIN in oleomargarin, 370 

Parsons, C. C. , 41 

Paul, B. II., 70, 257, 268, 269 

Pea (lour, 103 

Peanut butter, 177 

Pearmain, T. M., 151, 225, 236, 244, 

247 

Pea starch, 95 
Pekoe tea, 254 
Pepper, 290 

African, 303 

- bird, 303 

cayenne, 303 

Pepperette, 297 
Pepper, long, 301 
starch, 96 

Peptones, determination, 366 
Perry, 326 
Petroleum spirit, 65 
Phenol, 91 
Phenolphthalein, 66 
Phenylhydrazin test, 114 
Phillips, F. C., 59 
Phytosterol, 160 
Piperidin, 291 
Piperin, 291 
Plastering of wine, 339 
Platinum, care of, 63 
Poisonous metals, 68 
Poivrette, 297 
Polarimetry, 22, 123, 357 
Porter, 332 
Potato flour, 104 

starch, 94 

Prescott, A. B., 55 
Preservaline, 85 
Preservatives, 83, 86, 223 
Priest, M., 273 
Process butter, 370 
Proteids, determination, 209, 366 
Proteoses, determination, 366 
Prune juice, detection, 352 
Prussian blue, detection, 258 



INDEX 



Putrefaction, detection, 364 
Pyknometer, lo 



RAPE oil, 181 

Recknagel's phenomenon, 194 
Red milk, 224 
Reduction, 121 
Refraction index, 157 
Refractometer, 157 
Reichert, K., 145 
Reichert-Meissl number, 146 
Reichert number, 146 
Reinsch's test, 71 
Renovated butter, 370 
Rex magnus, 85 
Rice, 101-4 

starch, 96 

Richardson, C. , 294, 296, 304, 307, 

308, 311,313. 316, 317 
Richmond, H. D., 91, 194, 196, 201, 

204, 207, 211, 216, 223 
Ricketts, P. de P., 27 
Ritthausen method, 209 
Rock and rye drops, 139 
Romijn, G. J., 222 
Root beer, 334 
Ropy milk, 225 
Rosier, C. II., 223 
Rum, 331 

Rye flour, 99, 101, 104 
starch, 95 



SACCHARIN, 84, 88 

Sago starch, 95 

Salicylic acid, 83, 87 

Salol, 91 

Sand, 65 ' 

Saponification equivalent, 150 

value, 148 
Sawdust in flour, 105 
Scales for polarimeter, 29 
Scheibler's method, 30 
Schmidt and Hansch scale, 29 
Schnapps, 331 
Schumann, O., 21 
Scotch whiskey, 330 
Scudder, H., 356 
Separated milk, 196 
Sesame oil, 180 
Silicofluorids, 86, 90 
Simons, F. D. , 130, 352 
Sinalbin, 317 
Sinapin thiocyanate, 317 



Sirup, 128 

Smith, A. W., 284, 288, 341 
Smith, H. M., 91 
Sodium benzoate, 83, 88 

phosphomolybdate, 275 

Solidifying-points, 16 
Solids, original, 286 
Soluble acids, 158 

cocoas, 278 

Solpents, immiscible, 53 

misciUe, 49 

Souchong tea, 254 
Soxhlet, F, 49, 116, 119 
Spaih, E., 309, 363 
Specific gravity, 9, 140 

bottle, 10 

rotatory power, 28 

temperature react on, 152 

Spectroscope, 30 

Spirit, essig, 287 

Spirits, 327 

Sprengel tube, 1 1 

Standard solutions, 65 

Stannous chlorid in bread, 108 

Starch, 92 

Starches, characters of, 94-6 

Stearin, beef, 189 

coconut, 182 

cottonseed, 176 

Stock, W. F. K., 190, 294, 306 

Stokes, A. W., 219, 228, 294, 303 

Stout, 332 

Stutzer's method, 46, 245 

Sucrose, 113, 219 

Sublimation, 54, 60 

Sugar, cane-, 113,219 

Sugars, Il6 

Sulfates in baking powders, 113 

Sulfites, 85, 350 

Sulfur chlorid test, 189 

Sulfuric acid in vi-negar, 289 

Sulfurous acid determination, 350 

Sweetser, W. S., 103 

Symbols, 374 



TAHLE accessories, 323 
Taenia, forms of, 365 
Tallow, 189 
Tapeworm, 365 
Tapioca starch, 95 
Tartaric acid, 277, 313 
Tea, 251 
Teel oil, 180 
Terra alba in bread, 108 



INDEX 



383 



Thein, 252 

Theobromin, 274, 275, 280 
Thermal reactions, 151, 152 
Thompson, R. T., 85, 152, 220 
Thome, L. T., 58 
Tin detection, 69, 70 
in bread, 108 
Titer test, 20 
Trichina, 365 
Turmeric, 310 
starch, 94 



ULTRAMARINE blue, 126 
Unsaponitiable matter, 165 



VALENTA'S test, 150 
Vanilla extract, 320 
Vanillin, 321 

Van Slyke, L. L. , 198, 240, 247 
Vegetable butter, 182 
Vegetaline, 182 
Vieth, P., 196, 214, 216, 248 
Vinegar, 283 
cider, 284 

malt, 285 

spirit, 284 

wine, 283 
Viscosity, 164 
Volatile acid, 145, 234 



Voorhees, E. ^.,98, 100 
Vulte, II. T., 177 



WATER determination, 36 

specific gravity of, 372 
Weigmann, H., 275 
Weissbier, 332 
Werner-Schmid method, 204 
Weston distillation apparatus, 56 
Weslphal balance, 13 

Wheat, 98, 99, 101, 103 

starch, 95 

Whey, 196 
Whiskey, 328 

apple, 329 

Irish, 330 

Scotch, 330 

Wild's scale, 29 

Wiley, H. W., 27, 34, 52, 70, 96, 113, 

117, 184, 213, 215 
Wine, 335 

low, 284, 328 

vinegar, 283 

Winton, A. L., 284, 295, 302, 311, 

316,317 
Wool test, 77, 127 



XANTHIN, 366 

ZINC, detection, 69, 70 




Unirersity of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref . Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



