





. - 



. 




r/l 



THE 



OF 




MILITARY HYGIENE 



BY 



EDWARD n MUNSON, A.M., M.D. 

Captain, Medical Department, United States Army 



ILLUSTRATED BY EIGHT PLATES AND NEARLY FOUR HUNDRED ENGRAVINGS 




NEW YORK 
WILLIAM WOOD AND COMPANY 

MDCCCCI 



COPYRIGHT, 1901, 
BY WILLIAM WOOD AND COMPANY 



PUBLISHERS' PRINTING COMPANY 
32-34 LAFAYETTE PLACE, NEW YORK 



BRIGADIER-GENERAL GEORGE M. STERNBERG 

Burgeon- General, United States Army 

WHOSE PROFESSIONAL LABORS HAVE SO MATERIALLY CONTRIBUTED TO THE 
ADVANCEMENT OP SANITARY SCIENCE, AND WHOSE OFFICIAL ADMINISTRA- 
TION HAS SO GREATLY PROMOTED THE WELFARE OF THE ARMY 
AND THE EFFICIENCY OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 

Cbfs Boofc 

IS KESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY THE AUTHOR 

IN GRATEFUL APPRECIATION OF MANY 
ACTS OF KINDNESS 



PREFACE. 



FOR the preparation of a work on the subject of military hygiene, the 
author has no apologies to offer. Save a small collection of sanitary pre- 
cepts,, intended for the use of officers of the line, no book exclusively 
devoted to the preservation of the health of troops has been published in 
the English language in more than a generation. The more complete 
works on general hygiene contain much material which has no applicabil- 
ity to the military service, and, on the other hand, they leave unnoticed a 
large number of subjects a knowledge of which is of the highest impor- 
tance to the military sanitarian. For these reasons, many of the lessons 
learned by bitter experience in camp and garrison, during a period in which 
sanitary science has made its greatest progress, have been practically lost 
to medical officers of the present day, and the experience of the past few 
years has demonstrated the need of a text-book dealing directly with 
the sanitary problems peculiar to the military service. This it has 
been the endeavor of the author to supply in the present volume, which 
it is hoped will be found available not only as a book of reference 
for medical officers, in connection with their sanitary duties, but also as a 
practical guide to officers of the line, with, respect to the care of troops 
over whom they have control. In view of the fact that this book is in- 
tended for use under conditions in which recourse tcra library of reference 
will rarely be practicable, it has been thought best not to increase the size 
of an already large volume by including a bibliographical index of the 
authorities, some twenty-seven hundred in number, referred to in the text 
or consulted in its preparation. A list of these authorities has, however, 
been preserved, and may be placed at the disposal of those who desire to 
go more fully into the vast subject of military hygiene. 

In conclusion, the author desires to express his great indebtedness to 
Colonel Charles Smart, Assistant Surgeon-General, United States Army, at 
whose suggestion and through whose kindness the preparation of this work 
was undertaken, and whose encouragement and assistance rendered its com- 
pletion possible. Possessed of an infinite knowledge of sanitary affairs, it 
is the misfortune of the military service that pressure of public business 
made it necessary for him to delegate the writing of this book to a less 
worthy pen 

The author has received much valuable aid from his wife in the prepar- 
ation of notes and of the index. 

E. JL M. 

WASHINGTON BARRACKS, D. C., January 1st, 1901. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTEE I. 

PACK 

THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT, 1 

Geueral considerations Defectives Nativity of recruits for the United States 
army Previous status of recruits Age Height Weight Chest measure- 
ments Average proportions of the recruit Examination of the recruit Gen- 
eral qualifications for mjlitary service Causes for rejection in the recruit 
Mental infirmities Moral infirmities Constitutional disqualifications The 
skin The head The spine The ears The eyes The face The mouth and 
fauces The neck The chest The abdomen The genito-urinary organs Af- 
fections common to both upper and lower extremities The upper extremities 
The lower extremities Re-enlistments Proportion of rejections Causes of 
rejection. 

CHAPTEK II. 

THE DEVELOPMENT OP THE RECRUIT, 33 

I. General considerations of physical training The untrained recruit Determi- 
nation of physical deficiencies in the recruit Exercise in relation to muscular 
development and power Exercise as affecting the nervous system Influence 
of exercise upon the heart Exercise in relation to the chest and lungs Exer- 
cise as affecting the kidneys Weight as affected by exercise Exercise as af- 
fecting the functions General results of systematic exercise Exercise as influ- 
encing the occurrence of disease Government of exercise Division of exercise 
Training Exhaustion Over-training Proper physical proportions Devel- 
opment of special parts General plan for physical development Physical 
training in foreign services Physical training in the United States service- 
Schools of instruction. 

II. Consideration of special exercises Attention Manual of arms Setting-up 
exercises Fencing Bayonet exercise Target practice Practice marches 
Running drill Equitation Natation Gymnasium exercise Applied gym- 
nastics Guard duty Other exercises Athletic sports. 

III. Mental and moral education. 



CHAPTER III. 

THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN, 74 

General considerations of the march The march step Work done on the 
march Position of troops on the march Time Rapidity Length Meteoro- 
logical conditions Terrain Equipment Forced marches Night marches- 
Delays Rests Use of fluids Straggling Convalescents Mental occupation 
Accidents of the march Blisters and excoriations Pied force Heart strain 
Health of troops. 



viii CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER IV. . 

WATEB, 

I. Quantity Permanency of supply Rain-water Surface-waters Ground- 
water Search for water Transportation of water. 

II. Relation of drinking-water to disease Quality as inferred from physical ex- 
amination Color Clearness Lustre Taste Odor Other considerations 
Chemical analysis of water The water-sample Total solids Hardness 
Chlorine Organic material Nitrites Nitrates Ammonia Oxygen-consum- 
ing capacity Dissolved oxygen Lead and copper Microscopical examina- 
tion of water Bacteriological examination of water. 

III. Purification of drinking-water Purification by physical means Purification 
by mechanical means Improvised filters Maignen filters Berkefeld filters 
Pasteur-Chamberland filters Purification by chemical means. 



CHAPTER V. 

THE RATION, 155 

I. General considerations of food Relation of food to the work of the soldier 
Requirements of the soldier's dietary and ration Quantity of United States 
army ration Quality of ration Variety in ration "Wastage of ration Savings 
from ration Additions to ration Cooking of ration Means of cooking the 
ration Meals Service of ration General messes Foraging Billeting Req- 
uisitions as a means of supply. 

II. Subsistence and messing in foreign armies. 

III. The several articles of the ration Meat and ^sh components Fresh meat 
Meat contracts Military abattoirs Beef Beef -cattle Weight Age Condi- 
tion Health Dressed beef Age Sex Quality Cysticercus disease Tuber- 
culosis Anthrax Actinomycosis Other diseases Mutton Pork Pork 
measles Trichinosis Bacon Salt-pork Horse-meat Slaughter-houses 
Preservation of meat Method of slaughter Refrigerated and frozen meat 
Preservation by heat Desiccation Smoking Canning Salting Chemical 
preservatives The cooking of meat Boiling Stewing Roasting Broiling 
Baking Frying Fresh fish Dried fish Pickled fish Canned fish The 
bread and vegetable components Flour Bread Hard bread Pain de Guerre 
Fresh vegetables Potatoes Onions Tomatoes Other vegetables Cooking 
of fresh vegetables Dried vegetable components Beans and peas Rice 
Hominy Oatmeal Cornmeal Dried fruits The sugar, coffee, and condiment 
components Sugar Molasses [Saccharin Coffee Tea Chocolate Salt 
Pepper Vinegar. 

IV. Emergency or reserve rations General considerations The emergency ration 
Emergency rations of foreign armies Special preserved or concentrated 
foods The travel ration. 



CHAPTER VI. 

MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT, 292 

I. General consideration of clothing Uniformity Cut Grade Material Color 
Permeability Absorption and conduction of heat, Absorption of moisture 
Water-proofing Special articles of the uniform The head-covering The 
outer clothing The underclothing The coverings of the extremities. 

II. Equipment Weight of equipment Reduction of weight Disposition of 
the equipment Carrying apparatus The mess outfit. 



CONTENTS. ix 

CHAPTEK VII. 

PAOK 

CAMP SITES AND CAMPS, 886 

I. General consideration of camp sites Topography Soil Soil-moisture and 
ground- water Soil temperature Bacteriology of soil Vegetation. 

II. General consideration of camps Plan of the camp Area of the camp Biv- 
ouacs Cantonments Shelter-tents Tentage in general United States army 
tentage Tentage of foreign armies Improvised huts Frame quarters 
Portable barracks Permanent camps of instruction. 

CHAPTEK VIII. 

THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OP THE CAMP 874 

The camp space Habitations Beds and bedding The excreta Garbage and 
refuse Camp-police. 

CHAPTER IX. 

POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS, AND HOSPITALS, 403 

General consideration Location and arrangement of posts Arrangement and 
plans of barracks General principles of barrack construction Barrack furni- 
ture and the care of barracks Casemates Guard-houses Quarters Hospitals 
Occupancy of new buildings. 

CHAPTER X. 

VENTILATION, 446 

General consideration of ventilation Influence of ventilation on health Ven- 
tilation in the United States service Vitiation of air Drafts, and the rate of 
ventilating air-currents Superficial and cubic space Amount of fresh air re- 
quired Natural ventilation Location and size of ventilating openings In- 
take apparatus Combined inlets and outlets Extraction by heat Ventila- 
tion by aspiration Other means of ventilation Examination of ventilation 
Examination of air. 

CHAPTER XL 

HEATING AND LIGHTING 491 

I. General consideration of heating Fuel Local heating Open fire-places- 
Stoves Chimneys Central heating Heating by hot air Heating by hot 
water Heating by steam. 

II. Lighting by natural means Lighting by artificial means Unit of light- 
Mineral oil Coal-gas Acetylene Electricity Vitiation and heating of air by 
lights Conclusions. 

CHAPTER XII. 

DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE .583 

General considerations Cess-pit system Pail system Dry -earth system 
Goux system Sewerage Sanitary value of sewers Sewerage systems Con- 
struction of sewers Size of sewers Velocity of flow in sewers Gradient of 
sewers Discharge from sewers Sewer-air Ventilation and disconnection of 
sewers Care of sewers Drainage and plumbing Drains Soil-pipes Traps 
Testing of plumbing General considerations of plumbing Water-closets 
and water-closet apparatus Location and arrangement of water-closets 



x CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Night-latrines Water-closet fixtures Urinals Flush-tanks Disposal of 
liquid wastes Disposal of sewage and refuse Disposal of sewage into cess- 
pools Discharge of sewage into bodies of water Sewage-farms and ground 
filtration of sewage Bacterial treatment of sewage Disposal of garbage and 
refuse. 

CHAPTEE XIII. 

THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER, . . . . . 588 

General consideration of cleanliness in the military service Lavatories Baths 
and bathing Rain-bath systems Post bath-houses Care of the person in the 
field The care of the feet The care of the mouth The care of the hair and 
beard Insect parasites Cleanliness of the clothing. 



CHAPTEE XIV. 

MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY, 610 

General consideration Army medical statistics Comparative loss in campaign 
from sickness and wounds Death rates in civil and military life Loss of time 
from sickness Race as influencing military mortality and morbidity Sickness 
and death rate as affected by season Locality as affecting health Branch of 
service as affecting health Influence of length of service upon morbidity and 
mortality Age as influencing sickness and mortality Influence of military 
rank as affecting health Health of troops during peace Decrease in rates 
under conditions of peace War as affecting the health of armies Comparison 
of military medical statistics. , 

CHAPTEE XV. 

DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER, 648 

I. General consideration and classification The infective diseases. Cerebro-spinal 
meningitis Cause Infection and dissemination Prophylaxis; Cholera Oc- 
currence Cause Dissemination and infection Predisposing causes Prophy- 
laxis Preventive inoculation; Dengue; Diarrhrea and diarrhreal diseases 
Prophylaxis ; Diphtheria Occurrence Cause Dissemination and infection 
Predisposing causes Prophylaxis Preventive inoculation ; Dysentery Oc- 
currence Cause Predisposing causes Method of infection Prophylaxis; 
Enteric or typhoid fever Occurrence Cause Elimination of infectious ma- 
terial by the sick Methods of dissemination among troops Predisposing causes 
to typhoid among troops Prophylaxis Preventive inoculation ; Influenza 
Occurrence Cause Dissemination and infection Prophylaxis; Malarial fevers 
Occurrence Cause Method of infection Predisposing causes Prophy- 
laxis ; Measles Occurrence Infection and . dissemination Prophylaxis ; 
Mumps ; Plague Occurrence Cause Predisposing causes Propagation and 
dissemination Prophylaxis Preventive inoculation ; Pneumonia Occurrence 
Cause Dissemination and infection Predisposing causes Prophylaxis; 
Sacrlet fever; Smallpox Occurrence Infection and dissemination Prophy- 
laxis Vaccine material Vaccinia ; Tuberculosis Occurrence Cause Dis- 
semination and infection Predisposing causes Prophylaxis; Typhus fever 
Occurrence Direct and predisposing causes Prophylaxis; Yellow fever 
Occurrence Cause and mode of dissemination Prophylaxis; General princi- 
ples of prophylaxis against infectious disease Early diagnosis Isolation 
Quarantine Avoidance Abandonment Individual hygiene Artificial im- 
munization. 



CONTENTS. X i 

II. Diseases largely dependent upon exposure. Bronchitis; Rheumatism and 
myalgia; Acute articular rheumatism. 

III. Disease produced by an improper dietary. Scurvy Occurrence Cause- 
Prophylaxis. 

IV. Diseases largely dependent on military service. Affections of the circulatory 
system. 

CHAPTER XVI. 

DISINFECTION, 766 

General considerationDisinfection by physical processes Desiccation Sun- 
light Incineration Dry heat Moist heat Boiling Streaming steam Super- 
heated steam Chemical disinfectants Bichloride of mercury Carbolic acid" 
Tricresol Lime Chlorinated lime The hypochlorites Ferrous sulphate 
Chemical disinfection by the use of sprays Gaseous disinfectants Chlorine- 
Sulphur dioxide Formaldehyde Special applications of the disinfective proc- 
esses Room disinfection Disinfection of stables Disinfection of wells and 
cisterns Disinfection of tentage Disinfection of clothing Disinfection of 
excreta Miscellaneous The sanitary officer and his assistants. 

CHAPTER XVII. 

THE HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING His EFFICIENCY 807 

Alcoholism Classification of military drunkards, and causes of alcoholism 
Prevalence of alcoholism among soldiers Results of alcoholism Use of alco- 
hol in the military service Prevention of alcoholism The army canteen, and 
its influence on the welfare of the soldier Temperance clubs Venereal dis- 
eases Amount of venereal disease in the armies of the world compared Syph- 
ilis Gonorrhoea All venereal infections Causes affecting the prevalence of 
venereal disease among troops Prevention of venereal disease Effect of offi- 
cial control of prostitution Measures of prevention of venereal applied to the 
soldier The use of tobacco Tattooing The amusements of the soldier in 
relation to his health and efficiency Insanity and suicide. 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES, 850 

General consideration of climate. 

I. The hygiene of the tropics. Effects of tropical climates The physiology 
of the tropics Acclimation of soldiers Composition of military forces for 
tropical service Season for arrival Food The tropical dietary Drink Ar- 
tificial refrigeration Shelters Clothing Cleanliness Habits and personal 
hygiene Conduction of marches Sunstroke Necessity for sanitaria Dura- 
tion of service in the tropics. 

II. The hygiene of cold climates. General consideration Selection of troops 
for winter service in cold climates Clothing Food Shelter Frost-bite 
Snow-blindness General sanitary rules for field service in cold climates. 

CHAPTER XIX. 

THE HYGIENE OF THE TROOP-SHIP, 

Ventilation Cubic space Exposure to winds Dryness of ship and decks- 
Condensation of moisture The bilge Location and arrangement of quarters 
for troops Bedding Cleanliness of person and surroundings Clothing- 
Water Food Disposal of excreta Sea-sickness Exercise and amusements 
on board ship. 



xii CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER XX. 

PAG* 

THE DISPOSAL, OP THE DEAD, 934 

Interment Method of Embalming Transportation of the dead, with special 
reference to infectious disease Sanitation of the field of battle Cremation 
of bodies after action. 

CHAPTER XXI. 

SANITARY INSPECTIONS IN THE MILITARY ESTABLISHMENT, 943 

Responsibilities and duties of the sanitary officer Methods of sanitary inspec- 
tion Special qualifications required of sanitary inspectors in the military ser- 
vice Relations between the sanitary inspector and line officers Recapitu- 
lation of the most important points to be noted by sanitary inspectors with 
relation to camp and garrison Sites Shelters Water-supply Food 
Clothing Bedding Means of cleanliness General police Habits Methods 
of exercise and amusements of the men The physical condition of the men 
The prevalence of diseases, etc. 

INDEX. . 949 




CHAPTER I. 

THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 

RECRUITMENT being the first necessity in the organization of military 
forces the examining officer should bear in mind that upon the faithfulness 
and intelligence with which his duties are performed depend in great 
degree the future health, efficiency, and mobility of an army. He should 
consider that war and not peace affords the theoretically normal conditions 
governing the military establishment, that physically sound troops are 
essential to success both in sudden emergencies and prolonged campaign, 
and that the soldier may be called upon at any time to sustain the maxi- 
mum of fatigue and privation of which the human being is capable. Ac- 
cording to the first Napoleon, " the most important quality of the soldier is 
his ability to support fatigue and privation ; physical courage is only thy 
second " and it should not be forgotten that the effectiveness of a force 
depends upon its vigor rather than upon its size. The strength and health 
of a military organization is based upon the physical character of the indi- 
viduals composing it, and celerity of movement and the ability to bear hard- 
ship are imperatively demanded in the successful manipulation of armies. 
Recruits must be of trustworthy physique and sound constitution before 
the military character can be developed, and the physically, mentally, and 
morally defective are hence to be uniformly rejected as unfit for service. 
Perfunctory performance of duty or inattention in this respect will often 
admit as recruits men whose physical faults render them unfit for duty 
and susceptible to disease, whose undetected affections may be transmitted 
to others or whose moral obliquities induce malingering and desertion. 
Such defects will early become evident in the company organization, and 
the eventual discharge of the soldier on account of pre-existing disability 
cannot fail to bring discredit on the skill and carefulness of the examiner. 
Little argument seems required to demonstrate the necessity for careful 
physical examination before enlistment ; but it may be well to remember 
that during the war with Mexico the regular troops, who bore the brunt of 
the campaign, lost about two-thirds as many from disease and by discharge 
for disability as did the volunteer troops, the former having been physi- 
cally examined where the latter had not. In the Civil War the annual 
mortality from disease was 32 per 1,000 in the case of the regular army, 
and 55 per 1,000 from the less carefully examined volunteers. At the 
same time the annual loss by discharge on certificate of disability was 68 
1 



2 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

per 1,000 for the regulars and 91 per 1,000 for volunteers. In all foreign 
armies in which the physical standard required of the recruits is high, as 
in the German army, the rates for sickness and death are proportionately 
low. 

While military hygiene can do much to preserve the health of the 
originally sound and robust, in the military service as in the struggle for 
existence elsewhere it is the weak and physically defective which are the 
first to succumb to hardship and disease. Hence, in the prompt rejection 
of the unfit, the future cares of the medical officer and the liability to epi- 
demics are proportionately diminished. It should be remembered that the 
evils resulting from a high sicl^-rate are not confined to the hospitals, the 
number and size of which, in an army of theoretically sound men, should 
be largely determined by probable casualty rather than sickness. The effi- 
ciency of the army is impaired not only proportionately to the number of 
absentees, but is also reduced through the extra expenditure of energy re- 
quired on the part of the effective force in performing the additional duties 
which thus devolve upon them. The general efficiency is thus not only 
weakened, but it is weakened in such a way as to seriously, interfere with 
the process of repair. The places of the dead may be promptly filled with 
recruits ; but those cumbering the hospitals with their chronic disabilities 
are still borne on their regimental muster rolls and cannot be replaced by 
more vigorous individuals so long as they are sick and are permitted to 
remain in the service. The ineffective man therefore weakens the ranks 
he was intended to strengthen. He serves but to fill the hospitals, load 
the trains on the march, consume supplies, and require the care of the 
effective and able-bodied to minister to his infirmities and this at a time 
when his own services are wanted in the field. As expressed by Tripler, 
if the examiner keeps in mind that the. strength of an army is determined 
by the number of rifles in the field rather than the number of names upon 
the rolls, he will be less desirous of accepting numbers of recruits than that 
those whom he shall have certified to be free from defect shall not fail in 
the hour of trial. Particular care is necessary in the examination of men 
for the volunteer service. The volunteer officers themselves are largely 
ignorant of the vital importance of rejecting the unfit and desire their 
regiments to be filled as soon as possible ; while patriotic motives inspire 
applicants for enlistment to conceal their defects from the examining 
officer. On being assigned to duty with newly raised troops, undergoing 
organization, the first duty of the sanitary officer is, therefore to institute 
such re-examination of the personnel as will result in the elimination of 
all those unsuited to the profession of arms by reason of physical disability 
or mental infirmity. 

Defectives. Weak or poorly developed men spend a large part of 
their time in hospitals, and in time of war are usually unable to render 
any service. As expressed by Greenleaf : "There is probably no one class 
of men which furnishes such large numbers to the hospitals, the guard- 
house, and the list of deserters as this, designated by military men as 
' poor physique,' 'feeble constitution,' or ' general unfitness.' " This opinion 
is shared by Notter and Firth, they believing also that a close correlation 
exists between the physical and moral development of men ; in fact, low- 
ering the physical means lowering the moral standard of recruits. Where 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 



3 



a service dips too low for its material it will be liable to get men not only 
small but unsteady, wanting in mental ballast as well as physical strength 
and resistance to disease. The nerves and muscles are built up by the 
same process of nutrition, and the weighing machine is probably the best 
of all means available for testing the general fitness of the recruit. 

Nativity. This, as subsequently shown, exerts a certain influence 
upon sick-rates and physical development. Contrary to the opinion en- 
tertained by the general public, the standing army of the United States 
contains no large proportion of men of foreign birth. Of 52,077 recruits 
accepted during the six years 1892-97, a period of peace, 70.69 per cent, 
were bom in the United States. To still further insure that the army 
should represent the country at large and be in sympathy with republican 
institutions, Congressional action has recently provided that no applicant 
should be enlisted unless he was a citizen of the United States or had 
legally declared his desire for naturalization. 

TABLE SHOWING NATIVITY OF 52,077 RECRUITS ACCEPTED FOR SERVICE IN THE 
UNITED STATES ARMY FOR THE Six YEARS 1892r97. 





1892. 


1883. 


1894. 


1895. 


1896. 


1897. 


Total. 


United States ... ... 


6 346 


5 789 


5 040 


6 285 


6 498 


6 850 


36 808 


England 


300 


338 


237 


197 


218 


214 


1 504 


Scotland 


53 


65 


58 


50 


37 


49 


312 


Wales 


9 


8 


13 


9 


7 


4 


50 


Ireland 


897 


841 


708 


652 


643 


713 


4454 


Canada 


218 


189 


129 


141 


133 


122 


932 


Other British Possessions 
France 


8 
21 


14 
22 


8 
21 


12 
22 


6 
14 


6 

23 


54 
123 


Belgium 


8 


9 


5 


9 


5 


7 


43 


Holland 


11 


12 


13 


17 


13 


9 


75 


Denmark 


96 


112 


89 


78 


70 


69 


514 


Norway 


67 


73 


53 


46 


46 


49 


334 


Sweden 


153 


139 


116 


116 


101 


129 


754 


Germany 


880 


812 


706 


769 


645 


743 


4,555 


Switzerland 


72 


64 


45 


38 


40 


63 


322 




80 


71 


84 


88 


62 


65 


445 


Bohemia 


15 


22 


4 


10 


14 


20 


88 




19 


9 


8 


11 


7 


10 


64 


Poland 


22 


33 


9 


6 


14 


12 


96 


Russia 


71 


80 


47 


59 


49 


41 


347 


Italy 


19 


13 


15 


14 


13 


10 


84 


Other countries 


23 


17 


26 


10 


19 


18 


122 


















Total 


9,388 


8,732 


7,434 


8.643 


8.654 


9,226 


52,077 










i 









Previous Status. Class and occupation exert a marked and often 
characteristic influence upon susceptibility to disease, the physical devel- 
opment, and, in the latter case, the conformation of recruits. In our own 
service, enlistments for the regular army are usually made from the lower 
walks of life and the laboring classes ; but in time of war, and particularly 
in the volunteer forces, all sorts and conditions of men are attracted to 
the colors through motives.of patriotism and love of adventure. This was 
especially noteworthy in the case of one of the cavalry regiments organized 
for service during the war with Spain. No figures affording a means of 
comparing the physical qualifications of the several social classes have ever 
been compiled from our military records, but this has been done to some 



4 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

extent in foreign services. In a recent report of the British War Office 
the physique of officers and enlisted men is compared, and it is shown 
that the " better classes " of society are also better physically. Officers, on 
entering the British army, average two inches taller, are from two to five 
pounds heavier, and have two or three inches greater chest girth than 
recruits ; and this in spite of the fact that the men average nearly two 
years older than the officers at enlistment. In the French army a similar 
comparison is greatly to the advantage of the officers; and it may be ac- 
cepted that generations of breeding, unconscious selection, and more favor- 
able environment tell on the human animal like any other. As regards 
the one matter of vision, however, the recruiting officers of the British 
service have found that imperfect or defective eyesight increases with 
ascent in the social scale. It is, on the whole, less perfect among the 
better than the lower class of recruits ; and also, naturally, among those 
drawn from towns than those enlisted in the rural districts. The unequal 
physical development induced by occupation is so well recognized that no 
discussion of the subject is here required. 

In peace the United States army is recruited largely from the ranks of 
unskilled labor, with a fair proportion of clerks and mechanics. As a rule, 
these soldiers are men more of brawn than brain who enlist at first from 
no particular liking for the military profession but merely as a means of 
securing a present support those who develop an aptitude for arms re- 
enlisting at the expiration of their term of service. The number of men 
enlisting in any one year from each class is naturally largely dependent 
upon the industrial conditions affecting their trade or handicraft. In 
periods of profound business depression an unusually desirable type of men 
become applicants for enlistment. 

OCCUPATION OF 9,585 RECRUITS ACCEPTED IN THE UNITED STATES 
ARMY IN THE YEAR 1892. 

Unskilled laborers 2,270 

Soldiers and sailors, re-enlistments 2,130 

Agriculture and stock-raising 1,235 

Professional and commercial 899 

Building trades 592 

Workers with horses 496 

Mines, metals and machinery 481 

Dealers and workers in food products 336 

Electricity and transportation 304 

Workers in cloth and clothing 155 

Unclassified 151 

Personal service and attendance 148 

Printing trades 121 

Workers in leather 117 

Makers of furniture and other workers in wood. ... 101 

Workers in liquors and tobacco .' 34 

Jewelry 20 

Hatters. . .' 9 

No occupation given 86 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 5 

In time of war, as above mentioned, the classes from which the vol- 
unteer regiments are recruited differ somewhat from those from which 
the regular forces, in time of peace, are drawn. It is evident, of course, that 
a regiment raised in a large city will differ considerably from one raised in 
the country in respect to the previous avocations of the enlisted strength. 
The 161st Indiana Infantry, recruited during the war with Spain from 
country districts and small towns in that State, may, however, be accepted 
as generally typical in its constituency of volunteer forces. This regiment 
was composed as follows : 

Skilled laborers 413 

Unskilled laborers 362 

Farmers . . . . , 296 

Clerks 118 

Students 58 

Professional men 47 

Merchants ... 25 



Total 1,319 

The average age of this regiment was 24 years, the average weight 149 
pounds and the average height 5 feet 8 inches. Of the total number, 
1,265 men were of American birth while 54 were of foreign nativity 
1,191 being single and 128 married. 

The military forces of Great Britain, the only European power in which 
the system of recruitment by voluntary enlistment prevails, are similar in 
their personnel to our own; laborers, servants, and farmers furnishing 
about sixty-five per cent, of the whole, artisans about fifteen per cent., and 
the remainder scattering. 

Physically, the regular troops are picked men while the volunteers are 
liable not to be so well selected in that respect. 

As might be expected, also, the city-bred applicants for enlistment are 
not physically equal to those from the country ; but, on the other hand, the 
consensus of opinion is that men from -the rural districts break down more 
readily under military conditions than do those from cities. As stated by 
Woodhull, "the agricultural recruit will be tetter nourished and at first 
may appear the most vigorous, due to his previous life of moderate exercise 
in the open air, uninterrupted nightly sleep, and of stated and sufficient 
meals. His mind and body work slowly and generally best in accustomed 
grooves. To him the plain and more scanty food, the garrison exercises, 
or the more fatiguing marches, the prompt obedience without discussion 
and the sharp movements without voluntary rest, the excitement of active 
service, the lack of comfortable surroundings when the day's work is over, 
and especially the exposure at night marching on guard in all weathers 
with broken and insufficient rest all these are conditions that disturb 
and lower his physical estate until he becomes inured to them. On the 
other hand, the young man from the city lias been accustomed to all 
grades of physical and mental excitement, he has probably eaten spare, 
irregular, and poorly cooked meals, and has lived in crowded and ill-venti- 
lated rooms. He may have been insufficiently clothed, and has certainly 



6 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

been used to late and irregular hours and to spasmodic physical exertion. 
Both mind and body are more active, and, although the body may appear 
less stalwart, he represents .the survivors in a struggle for existence which 
has not beset his companions from the country. Discipline is distasteful, 
but its methods and aims are more readily grasped. To him the military 
life is physical promotion, in that it substitutes regularity, system, and 
sufficiency for irregularity and inadequacy in meals, exercise, clothing, 
hours, and amount of rest and atmospheric purity. The new conditions 
disturb both classes, but to the city man less inconvenience follows. 
This is distinctly tested where city and country regiments lie side by side 
or where a city company has been incorporated in a country regiment, 
After elimination by length of service the country regiments rival those 
from the city in endurance, and generally excel them in the familiarity in 
the ways and with the implements of outdoor life." 

Age. In time of peace age exerts a strong influence upon military 
morbidity and mortality, and during campaign its effect becomes much 
more apparent. It should be borne in mind that the real hardships of 
war happen during the performance of long and harassing marches with 
the incidental privations which precede actual conflict, and it is under 
these latter circumstances that the physical difference between the old 
campaigner and the young soldier becomes most manifest. All military 
experience is opposed to the enlistment of minors for active service, and 
lowering the age is well recognized as lowering the effectiveness of an 
army. In referring to the Indian Mutiny it was said by Gordon that " old 
regiments marched in the most trying season of the year with compara- 
tively little loss by disease other than by epidemic cholera, while the 
young soldiers sent to their relief were literally dying by scores." It has 
long been known that " in campaign the young men succumb while the 
old soldiers become more hardy and stronger every day." In the Crimea, 
when notified that recruits were ready, Lord Raglan replied that "those 
last sent were so young and unformed that they fell victims to disease and 
were swept away like flies," so he preferred to wait rather than have young 
lads sent out as soldiers. The Duke of Wellington looked upon old sol- 
diers as the " soul and strength of the army ; " and Napoleon, in calling for 
300,000 men in 1813, desired that they be "men and not boys, who serve 
only to encumber the hospitals." As stated by Marshall, "to accept re- 
cruits before they have acquired sufficient strength to qualify them to 
execute their duties and to undergo the fatigues of a military life is to 
multiply the victims of disease and vexation and to augment the expense 
of an army without adding to its strength." The French army which 
gained the day at Austerlitz contained no men below the age of twenty- 
two years, and marched upward of 400 leagues, leaving but few sick en 
route ; on the other hand, the army victorious at Wagram was mainly 
composed of young soldiers, who are said to have filled the hospitals 
and marked the roads with their corpses. In the Franco-Prussian war the 
later French levies suffered the most; and, in time of peace, in 1891, the 
hospital admissions of French soldiers were 219 per 1,000 for those having 
more than one year of service, and 316 per 1,000 for those less than 
twelve months with the colors. Soldiers in the German army in the first 
two years of service furnish three-quarters of all the cases of typhoid 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 7 

fever. In 1883, of the British army in India, according to Eyre and 
Spottiswoode, 41 per cent, was under twenty-five years of age, and among 
them the death-rate from typhoid fever was 4.34 per 1,000; while among 
men twenty-five to twenty-nine years of age, forming 35 per cent, of the 
army, the mortality from this cause was only 1.50 per 1,000. According 
to Aitken, a large proportion of such soldiers as are discharged for disa- 
bility from the British service are under twenty years of age. Of our own 
service it is stated by Rosse that a decade ago the greater proportion of 
sickness occurred in the younger soldiers ; while up to the age of twenty- 
four the rate proved so much above the mean for the whole army that in 
1881 the surgeon-general concluded that "it may fairly be questioned 
whether the services of these young men are equal to the cost of their 
maintenance." Laveran observed that during campaign in hot climates 
the young recruits furnish a disproportionately large share of the sickness 
and deaths ; and Coustan is convinced that soldiers under the age of thirty 
years should never be sent to tropical countries. Rough states that 
"young men are more readily fatigued and much more liable to nostalgia, 
a condition which not only predisposes to sickness but aggravates its 
effects." Parkes considered the enlistment of boys of sixteen to twenty- 
one years a cruel waste, so great is the mortality at that age, and says 
that "although a recruit may be usefully trained at an early age no man 
under twenty can be regarded as an efficient soldier fit for service." Ex- 
perience has sufficiently proved the fact that the soldier must have attained 
a considerable degree of maturity before he is able properly to execute the 
arduous duties and undergo the privations incident to military life. On 
this point a lesson may be profitably learned from the Franco-Prussian 
War, when the German authorities, instead of filling the ranks with the 
young and untrained lads included in the contingent for the year, preferred 
to send into active service the married men of thirty-five years and up- 
ward. Fallot, quoted by Ewing, states that "conscripts at the age of 
eighteen have not attained their full growth, and medical men are well 
aware that the complete development of the human body requires an ex- 
emption from great fatigue, abundance of healthy nourishment, undis- 
turbed sleep, and a tranquil mind a concurrence of circumstances which 
never occurs in the army." 

From the standpoint of developmental anatomy the soldier should cer- 
tainly not be enlisted before the age of twenty-one years, and a delay of an 
additional twelve months would be not undesirable. At eighteen years the 
bones are not fully formed and their actual growth continues until the 
twenty-fifth year, osseous development preserving a distinct and definite 
sequence. The epiphyses of the transverse and spinous processes of the 
vertebrae hardly commence to ossify before sixteen years of age, and it is 
not until after twenty years that the two thin circular plates form on the 
bodies of the vertebrae, while the whole process is not completed until the 
thirtieth year. The sacrum commences to consolidate at the eighteenth 
year and the process is completed from the twenty-fifth to the thirtieth 
year. The fourth and third bones of the sternum are united between the 
twentieth and twenty-fifth years, and the second is not united to the third 
bone before the thirty-fifth year. The epiphyses of the ribs commence 
to grow between the fifteenth and twentieth and are not completely joined 



8 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



to the bone until the twenty-fifth year. The epiphyses of the scapulae 
join between the ages of twenty-two and twenty-five ; while the epiphysis 
of the clavicle begins to form between the ages of eighteen and twenty 
years. The internal condyle of the humerus unites at eighteen, but the 
upper epiphysis does not join until the twentieth year. The epiphyses of 
the radius, ulna, femur, tibia, and fibula are all unjoined at eighteen years 
and are not completely united until the twenty-fifth year. The epiphyses 
of the pelvic bones (crest of the ilium and tuberosity of ischium) begin to 
form at puberty and are completed by the twenty-fifth year. The greatest 
growth of the heart takes place between eighteen and twenty-five years, and 
even at the latter age has not attained its maximum. When cardiac de- 
velopment is deficient, heart failure is liable to occur under unwonted 
exercise and in emergencies, and irritable heart, unfitting for military ser- 
vice, is thus favored. 

Great importance must also be attached to age in relation to the gen- 
eral physical development of the individual. In height, weight, and chest 
measure the records kept of students at Amherst College show an increase 
up to the twenty-sixth year. Aitken states that the white American male 
grows 1.15 inches between the ages of nineteen and twenty-five. Robert 
found that in French soldiers, observed during the period between the 
ages of twenty-one and twenty-five, the average increase in height was 20 
mm. (.8 of an inch), while this increase of stature in some instances was 
as much as 40 or 45 mm. Baxter noted that during the Civil War the 
native-born white recruits between the ages of thirty and thirty-five had an 
average greater height of .53 of an inch when compared with the stature of 
the whole army, ranging from eighteen to forty -five years. Audral found 
that the maximum lung capacity is not attained until the thirtieth year, 
and that it diminishes after that time ; while Quetelet showed that the 
adult male does not acquire his greatest strength before twenty-five, his 
muscular power being stationary for the five years from twenty-five to 
thirty, and then diminishing. 

The results obtained by Quetelet are as follows : 



Age. 


Lumbar 
strength. 
Kilograms. 


Strength 
of both hands. 
Kilograms. 


Age. 


Lumbar 
strength. 
Kilograms. 


Strength 
of both hands. 
Kilograms. 


16... . 


102 


63 


30 


154 


89 


18 


130 


79 


40 


122 


87 


20 


138 


84 


50 


101 


74 


25 


155 


88 





















Statistics would seem to show that the maximum physical develop- 
ment is found in Americans between the twenty-fifth and thirtieth year; 
although it is estimated by Gould that the white native of the United 
States does not attain his full growth until between thirty-one and thirty- 
four years of age. It may be safely concluded, therefore, that the maxi- 
mum physical development is not attained before the twenty -fifth year, 
and that continuance of the present practice of allowing the enlistment of 
certain recruits as young as the age of eighteen years is, in this country of 
small military establishment and vast population, as undesirable as it is 
unnecessary. 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 9 

Where a minor offers the written consent of parent or guardian, the 
question then presents itself whether so young a person possesses the vigor 
and physical development necessary for the performance of all the duties 
of a soldier. Young men are more easily trained and moulded than are 
their elders, especially for cavalry, and when well led fight as well as far 
as mere physical courage goes. Young recruits, however, have not only 
to work but also to grow and develop, and hence should have precisely 
the quantity and quality of exercise best fitted for their needs. Under 
the conditions incident to campaign the staying power of the immature 
youth is found wanting. His undeveloped body often yields to the strain 
and a consequent permanent disability leads to his discharge from the 
army and application for a pension. It is useless to expect any long- 
continued energy or exertion from the undeveloped and immature, and if 
such are to be enlisted this fact should be recognized and the work suited 
to their strength. " If the young man of twenty years has the maximum 
of suppleness and facility of accommodation to conditions, it is the man of 
twenty-five or thirty years who possesses the greatest vigor and stamina." 
The history of the past is full of evidence that too young men are not fit 
for such duty as soldiers are called upon to perform, and hence their en- 
listment should be discouraged where it cannot be actually prohibited. 

The minimum age under regulations at which the recruit might be 
enlisted in our service has been practically constant at eighteen years ; 
while the maximum has varied from the peace standard of thirty-five to 
forty-five in the early part of the century and fifty during the second war 
with Great Britain. In the Civil War volunteers were accepted between 
the ages of eighteen and forty-five, but no drafts were made below the age 
of twenty years. In time of peace nearly all the original enlistments are 
under thirty years of age; in 1897, of the recruits enlisted, 43.5 per cent. 
were between the ages of twenty and twenty-five years. According to 
Baxter, out of 190,621 whites, Union soldiers enrolled during the Civil 
War, the average age was 26.241 years. At the same time the proportion 
under twenty-one years of age, according to strength, was: 

18 years. . . 159.773 per 1,000 

19 78.659 

20 " 74.210 " 



Total under 21 years 380.479 

The following are the minimum requirements as to age, as given by 
Onslow, for recruits in various European armies : 

Great Britain ' 18 years 

France ' 

Austria a 

Germany 20 

. * 91 

Kussia ^ x 

Italy 2 20 

' It is distinctly provided that recruits not arrived at their majority shall satisfy 
through their unusual development, the physical requirements provided I 
twenty-one years of age. 

8 The year the recruit becomes twenty. 



10 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

In this connection the following figures given by Aitken for the British 
army in India, for the decade 1876-1885, are of interest: 



Under 


18 


years, 


per 


1,000 


strength. 


7. 


C> 




18-19 


" 


" 


a 


" 


5. 


1 




19-20 


" 


a 


u 


u 


15. 


G 




20-21 


" 


a 


u 


u 


50. 


9 




21-22 


" 


u 


u 


" 


70. 


4 




22-23 


H 


u 


" 


" 


'87. 


8 




23-24 


(( 


u 


" 


" 


94. 


3 




24-25 


It 


a 


" 


tt 


91. 


3 


Over 


25 


(( 


tt 


U 


a 


. 577. 


1 



In foreign services the necessity of maintaining large standing armies 
has caused a lowering of physical standards which need not be adopted in 
our own army. With an abundance of material upon which to draw there 
is no reason for the enlistment of recruits who have not attained their full 
physical powers. It would conduce greatly to the efficiency of the service 
if no enlistments were made among men of less than twenty -two years of 
age. 

Although immature men should never be accepted, it would be equally 
unfortunate to enlist those who are too old, and, with regard to the maxi- 
mum age for military service, it is probable that after thirty-five years of 
age the untrained recruit does not possess that flexibility and freedom of 
motion of the joints and that power of ready co-ordination which is neces- 
sary for acquiring the military education. Kirkhoff noted that after forty 
years the infantry soldier soon becomes unfit for service; and this fact 
is tacitly recognized in our army in the law which permits the retirement 
of enlisted men after thirty years with the colors. The legal limit for 
enlistment of thirty-five years of age is the very extreme for recruits under 
ordinary circumstances, and the nearer common laborers approach that age 
the more unlikely are they to be acceptable. It has been observed that 
for desirable colored recruits the age of twenty-five or twenty-six is prac- 
tically the maximum, since after that time they are liable to be physically 
stiffened and mentally dulled. 

For the determination of age in the recruit, as stated by Greenleaf, 
"certain well-known and clearly marked physical characteristics will 
enable the recruiting officer to decide at a glance whether or not an appli- 
cant for enlistment shall be placed in the broad mean as to age between 
the minimum and maximum fixed by law, although to determine in an 
individual either the age of majority i.e., twenty-one years or the max- 
imum age for enlistment, is always difficult and often impossible. The 
desire to enter the military service is sometimes, from varying causes, so 
strong as to prompt certain youths or middle-aged men to resort to any 
deceit for the purpose of concealing the truth. Boys will announce them- 
selves as of age with unblushing effrontery, and men who are over the 
maximum will add to falsehood the most ingenious artifices to disguise the 
evidences of advancing age. The development of the body does not neces- 
sarily keep pace with its years of existence. Youths of eighteen or nine- 
teen years occasionally present many physical characteristics of maturity, 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. H 

while some men pass the age of thirty-five without showing well-marked 
indications of it. Little importance need be attached to this latter phase, 
because the maximum limit does not apply to soldiers who re-enlist, and 
during peace but few civilians present themselves after that age. The 
former condition is, however, an important one and demands close atten- 
tion. The evidences of maturity which usually accompany the period of 
legal majority are as follows : At twenty-one years of age the wisdom 
teeth are usually cut, and on each side of both jaws there should be found 
five grinders, viz., three large double or molar teeth and two smaller 
double or bicuspid teeth. Under twenty-one years of age the wisdom 
teeth are seldom to be found. At maturity there should be some beard 
upon the face, and hair under the arms, a full growth around and above 
the genital organs, and some scattered hairs in the neighborhood of the 
anus. The hair of the body is generally fine and silky; while after 
maturity it is thick and coarse in the various places mentioned. After 
maturity the skin of the scrotum is somewhat darker in color than the 
surrounding parts, is opaque, and is marked in various directions by wrin- 
kles or folds. Before this period such skin retains the soft, velvety con- 
dition of youth, its pink or flesh color, and is more or less translucent, 
while the wrinkles or folds are not well pronounced, or are entirely absent, 
particularly at the sides'. This condition of the scrotum is the most valu- 
able of the signs of maturity." 

Height. That stature is largely a question of race lias long been 
demonstrated; yet within racial lines it is a matter of class and, among 
classes, of age, occupation, diet, and environment. According to Kil- 
bourne, the following is the average height of the various classes from 
which the material for our army must be chiefly recruited : 

Feet. Indies. 

North American Indians 5 7.93 

United States whites (Union soldiers in Civil War) 5 7.67 

Norwegians 5 7.66 

Scotch, United States immigrants 5 7.06 

Canadians 5 

Swedes, United States immigrants 5 

Irish, United States immigrants 5 6.74 

Welsh 5 

American negroes 5 

English, United States immigrants 5 

Hungarians, United States immigrants 5 

Germans, United States rmmigrants 5 

Swiss, United States immigrants 5 

French, United States immigrants 5 

Poles, United States immigrants 5 

Italians, United States immigrants 5 

Austrians, United States immigrants 5 

From the above table it is evident that in our service, the recruits for 
which are drawn from all classes of foreign immigrant stock, the observ- 
ance of rules establishing a fixed minimum is less desirable than in a 
country possessing a more physically homogeneous population. Deficient 
stature, when estimated according to the standard for each race, implies 
a lack of osseous growth which, in a large majority of cases, is accom- 
panied by proportionately defective muscular development and power, to- 
gether with lowered vital resistance. Mean height for different races, 



12 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

however, is comparative and not absolute, and the height of sixty-two or 
sixty -three inches indicates degeneracy in the native American where the 
Latin of the same stature is not far removed in this respect from his racial 
normal. While with peace conditions an abundance of recruits can be ob- 
tained under existing restrictions as to height excellent when applied to 
native-born recruits there should be some provision by which, for war 
service, the rejection of the comparatively undersized but muscular Slav and 
Latin, both notoriously hardy in campaign and in the performance of 
heavy manual labor, should not be obligatory upon the recruiting officer. 

While height has been accepted by some as being a physiological ex- 
pression of constitutional force, the vital resistance and endurance of the 
individual, as well as the maximum strength, is based rather upon the 
symmetrical development of all parts of the body. Beyer, however, con- 
siders that increase in height is a factor of the greatest importance in de- 
termining the ultimate degree of development in young men under physi- 
cal training, in which instance he considers that increased height means 
also increased strength; but the strongest individuals are not usually of 
great stature, and excessive height rarely implies a corresponding increase 
of general physical development and muscular power. Many centuries 
ago Vegetius wrote that "it is of much more importance that the soldier 
should be strong than that he should be tall," and in the military service 
of the present day an even less necessity exists for men above the mean 
in size. The average stature of a youth of eighteen years of age, a "grow- 
ing lad," is a little over 5 feet 4 inches, and this increases gradually until he 
reaches the age of twenty-five years about the stage of physical maturity 
or manhood when his average height is between 5 feet 7 inches and 5 
feet 8 inches. During the growing period the framework and vital organs 
receive the*rr proper development, and considerable departures from the 
given average of proportionate height to weight indicate an impairment of 
these organs which may and probably will develop into positive disease 
after exposure to the hardships incident to the life of a soldier ; hence they 
are of greater significance in men of these heights than in taller men, who 
are presumably of greater age and more mature growth. During the Civil 
War the average height, age and chest girth of 190,621 native white 
Americans, examined and accepted for the military service of the United 
States, was found by Baxter to be as follows : 



Height. Number. 

Under 61 inches 609 

61 to 63 " 4,929 



63 to 65 
65 to 67 
67 to 69 
69 to 71 
71 to 73 



21,712 
47,731 

58,348 
38,935 
14,858 



73 and over 3,499 



Mean age 26.96 years. 

Mean chest girth 85.25 inches. 

Mean height 67.35 " 



The minimum limit of stature for the recruit has varied greatly in our 
service. Shortly after the Eevolution it was fixed at 5 feet 6 inches, and 
in 1835 a minimum of 5 feet 8 inches for infantry was required. In 
1838 it was reduced to 5 feet, but this was increased by 5 inches three 
years later. Before the end of the Civil War it was again reduced to 5 
feet. At present it is placed at 5 feet 4 inches for all branches of the 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 



13 



service, although recruiting officers are allowed to exercise their discre- 
tion as to the enlistment of desirable recruits (such as band musicians, 
school-teachers, tailors, etc.) who may fall not more than a fraction of an 
inch below the minimum standard of height. The above requirement for 
height is, however, subject to change, instructions to that effect being 
issued from the adjutant-general's office "from time to time as the re- 
quirements of the service may dictate." In foreign armies the minimum 
height of the soldier is at present fixed as follows : 



Meters. 

English 1.62 (64 inches). 

Swedish 1.60 

German 1.57 

Belgian 1.57 

Italian 1.56 

Austrian. . .1.56 



Meters. 

Swiss 1.55 

French 1.54 

Russian 1.53 

Spanish 1.50 

Portuguese 1.50 (59 inches). 



It is a demonstrated fact that very tall men cannot for long support 
the fatigues of arduous military service ; and excess of height, in the ab- 
sence of proper and proportionate general physical development, is cause 
for rejection the same as a deficiency in stature. In men of great height 
the chief development is usually in the lower limbs, and in young and 
very tall recruits the excess of their growth becomes obvious by contrast 
with the narrow fiat chest, in which the apices of the lungs closely ap- 
proach each other. Aitken noticed that the majority of cases of tubercu- 
losis in soldiers were found in tall men, and believed that the taller the 
recruit the more his lungs should be tested with the spirometer while 
Baxter found that during the Civil War the ratio of rejections increased 
with increase of height. According to Viry, the French grenadiers are 
notoriously inferior as marchers to the voltigeurs or infantry of the line. 
Men of large size require proportionately more food than do those of 
smaller stature, besides presenting larger surface to the bullets of the 
enemy. It is obviously an advantage to exclude men of great height from 
the mounted service and thus avoid the carriage of an unnecessary weight 
by the horses. For all arms of the service the enlistment of stocky, mus- 
cular men of medium height is most desirable. In our cavalry and light 
artillery establishment the maximum height is 5 feet 10 inches; that for 
infantry and heavy artillery being governed by the maximum of weight, 
to which should be applied the rule for the proportion of height. 

Weight. Weight, to be effective, should be chiefly in bone and mus- 
cle, since fat, more than is necessary for tilling in and rounding out the 
figure, is dead weight and diminishes capacity to perform work. Weight 
varies directly with age and height and, according to Aitken, good weight 
for height is of even more importance than an ample chest measure. As 
a result of his investigations, Quetelet obtained the following figures : 



Age. 


Height. 
Meters. 


Body 
Weight. 
Kilograms. 


Age. 


Height. 
Meters. 


Body 
Weight. 
Kilograms. 


17 


1.634 


52.85 


25 


1.680 


62.96 


18 


1 658 


57.85 


80 


1.684 


r,:; i;.-, 


20 


1 674 


60.06 


40 


1.684 


64.67 















14 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

The most important point to consider in regard to weight is the min- 
imum compatible with military efficiency. Parkes placed the weight of 
115 pounds as the minimum for the recruit of eighteen years of age, but 
at the same time advised against the enlistment of such a class of men ; 
while, according to Fetzer, it is rare to find among men having a height 
of 1.57 meters those who, weighing less than 60 kgm. (132 pounds), 
would make good soldiers. Vallin believed that men of a height of 1.70 
meters should weigh not less than 60 kgm. and those of 1.80 meters not 
less than 70 kgm. Morache concluded that the weight, based upon the 
height, should be as follows : 

Meters. Kgm. Meters. Kgm. 

1.55 56 1.65 61-62 

1.60 58-60 1.78 63-64 

The minimum weight for all recruits in our service is 125 pounds, ex- 
cept for cavalry, in which arm enlistment may be made without regard to 
a minimum standard, provided the chest measurement and chest mobility 
are satisfactory. Foreign standards place the average increase of weight 
with the height at about 0.75 kgm. for each centimeter of stature. The 
rule in use in our own service considers that up to 5 feet 7 inches twice the 
height in inches should represent the weight in pounds, adding 7 pounds 
for each inch above 5 feet 7 inches. This standard of weight may, with 
experienced examiners, be advantageously varied ; since many young men 
of excellent bone may be temporarily under weight through defective nour- 
ishment, hard labor, or sojourn in hot climates, but be none the less vigor- 
ous and physically adapted to military service. The weakness of such 
men is apparent rather than actual. 

After twenty-five years of age, the body being fully developed, the 
excess of nutritive material over and above that required for its mainte- 
nance in health is deposited in the tissues as fat, and it will be found that 
a disproportion of weight over height occurs usually in adults or men 
in middle life. It is rare to meet in the recruiting rendezvous with 
very fleshy young men. Huxley regards the proper weight of man as 
154 pounds. This, however, is much in excess of the mean for our 
military service, which, for men of twenty to thirty years, is about 145 
pounds. 

It is better that recruits, if muscular, be over than under weight. 
Marked disproportion of weight over height does not disqualify for the 
military service, but positively obese men should be rejected. All things 
considered, the maximum United States army weight of 190 pounds for 
foot service is well placed, since the overweight man is handicapped by 
his superfluous flesh ; but it is well to remember that a sedentary occupa- 
tion may favor a temporary inclination toward obesity which yields 
promptly to military conditions. In this connection the history of the 
recruit should be given some consideration, particularly in time of war, 
when men are urgently needed, and cases should not be judged too hastily 
on the basis of overweight alone. For cavalry and light artillery the 
maximum weight is wisely established at 165 pounds. 

Chest Measure. The thorax, containing the heart and lungs, is the 
most important division of the body. It contains the vital machinery and 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 



15 



represents the staying power of the man. It must, therefore, be ample. 
The function of the legs is to transport the body ; they should be well 
formed and sufficient, but not unduly long for length of limb at the ex- 
pense of the chest is a disadvantage. A long-legged, long-necked man 
with a short chest is objectionable as a recruit. The size of the chest is 
an excellent indication of the vital resistance of the individual. It should 
be large, well formed, and inclined to rotundity rather than flatness. As 
to chest measure, Leeland and Stolaroff concluded from their researches 
that in the properly proportioned individual this should exceed the half 
height by from 25 to 40 mm. Seggel, as the result of a large number of 
measurements, arrived at the opinion that if the width of the shoulders 
and the diameter of the chest should together equal or exceed the demi- 
height the recruit might be considered as acceptable. He believed that 
the width of the shoulders in connection with the chest measure should 
be recognized as an important factor in the selection of the soldier, placing 
this width, in the properly built man, at two-ninths of the height. Fetzer 
considered that a chest measure of 0.76 meter (30 inches) indicated the 
lowest limit of physical aptitude for military service; but this standard, 
based on the necessity for a large number of men and on the comparatively 
undersized population of southern and eastern Europe, is much too low for 
the native-born American recruit. Bernard showed that the frequence of 
respiratory and circulatory disease was in inverse ratio to the chest meas- 
urements ; while Mackiewicz, from the weight and measurement of seven 
hundred and seventy-one men invalided from consumption, demonstrated 
that among weak men, as determined by weight and chest measure, tuber- 
culosis occurred four times as often as among sound men. These results 
are borne out by common experience. 

According to Onslow, the minimum chest measurement for the recruit 
in various European armies is as follows : 



England 38 inches. 

France 80.86 " 

Austria.. 30.06 " 



Russia No limit. 

Germany No limit. 1 

Italy 81.5 inches. 



In Switzerland the chest measure of the recruit is required to exceed 
half the height. In our service the rule is that "a man whose chest 
measures less than thirty-two inches in circumference at expiration should 
be rejected, unless he be considered specially desirable, when the case may 
be reported to higher authority." 

The quantity of air introduced into the lungs at each inspiration is 
certainly one of the most important elements determining the vital force 
and physical fitness of the recruit ; and the mobility of the chest is in this 
respect one of the data most necessary to consider, especially with refer- 
ence to its relation with height and weight. Chest mobility does not nec- 
essarily mean chest capacity, however; but where mobility is good capac- 
ity is usually satisfactory. Hutchinson states that the breathing capacity 
normally increases eight cubic inches for each inch of height between five and 
six feet. The vital capacity attains its maximum at thirty-live years of 
age, there being an average annual decrease of 1.21 cubic inches from that 

1 But the mobility and conformation are considered in connection with the general 
physique. 



16 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

point backward to fifteen and forward to sixty-three years of age. In 
general, the respiratory processes bear a close relation to the standard of 
nutrition of the organism. From a large number of observations in the 
British service the maximum chest expansion of a man of average size, 
eighteen to twenty-five years, was found to be two to two and one-half 
inches; rarely three inches. In our army "the chest mobility, i.e., the 
difference between the measurement at inspiration and expiration, should be 
at least two inches in men below five feet seven inches in height, and two 
and one-half inches in those above that height. It is not necessary that 
the applicant should conform exactly to the figures indicated in the rules, 
a variation of a fraction of an inch in chest measure being permissible if 
the applicant is otherwise in good health and desirable as a recruit. " Of 
9,901 men examined in Illinois for volunteer service during the war with 
Spain, the chest expansion was found unexpectedly high. The average 
in their case was 3.67 inches where Baxter found that during the Civil 
War 315,620 native-born whites had an average expansion of but 2.807 
inches. Among the volunteers above mentioned 4,067 men had a chest 
expansion of over four inches, and 801 of five inches or over. 

In examining the recruit the circumference of the chest is measured 
by passing the tape around it immediately at the point of the shoulder 
blade, the arm hanging down. Generally the tape will then be found to 
fall below the nipple. In taking this measure contortions of the body 
should be avoided. For the determination of the vital capacity the spiro- 
meter naturally gives more exact results than does the tape, but resort to 
this apparatus is unnecessary in practice. 

In the field, ill-adjusted packs tend materially to derange the chest 
organs. Even the canteen and haversack straps may press on the immature 
recruit to his lasting detriment, and, next to the inspiration of bad air, the 
imperfect or continuously obstructed expansion of the chest tends more 
than any other cause to bring about disease of the heart and lungs. In this 
respect, during campaign, the unformed chest of the recruit suffers much 
more severely than that of the seasoned soldier, and it is never advisable to 
accept the physically defective with the idea that the thorax will be devel- 
oped by a military life. As a general rule, large men are proportionately 
less developed as to chest than smaller men, but the influence of height on 
capacity of respiration is much greater than is that of weight. In obese 
individuals the chest mobility is never great. 

Average Proportions. It should be understood that age, weight, 
height, and chest measure are very closely correlated in the growth of the 
healthy human being to the full development of his strength and powers of 
endurance, and that the maintenance of due proportions in these factors is 
absolutely necessary in order to enable the soldier to sustain the fatigue 
and hardships incident to the profession of arms. All the conditions of 
military life are established on the basis of uniformity ; and as far as pos- 
sible average conditions of the above factors are required to co-exist. The 
march step is designed for men of mean height, not the very tall or short, 
while the weight of the equipment is proportioned to the average strength 
of the bearer. Hence the individuals above and below the normal line 
are at a physical disadvantage. All experience goes to show that the men 
most suitable for the military establishment are the typical men whose 



~5v 

111 



-j|dsui 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 

8 



-jfdsui 



-Jjdxg 



UOHB 
-jjdsui 



88 

33 



M TO ccc*5 

SS83 



CO C*5 TO C"3 C"S C*5 



TT r^ c*f ?* :T r^ 1 



co M cc W W 






8 33333 



8 



-.lids u i 



Uc il 11! 



paioioo 
pnB ajjq 



3SSS 



gaa 



'' 



S 33333 



"t re cc c^ 



17 

18 X* *, 



3333.3 
= = a s ?j 



IS i83S2f 



S 32 S 






a 5 
tete 



33333 a a< a 



?= .- 
S'L? 



at 5 



3 33333 13 






fc 



[2 2838S 



33333 



sssss 



33353 



^' 3SS5S 



" v5 . . ?t ft ft M S? ft ?C 



S.3TSSR R 



3 33383 I 3 



'-' 2 
i3s2 ar 

_rc_rg so 



3 3? 3 3w'i 5 



^'-: 'rf 



8. ^1 
33 3 



as s 



S3 : : 



S 8x2SVl 



S S2!; 



B35SS 



5SS53 



oioq 



re 35 S I.* u4 ^ 



S23S2 



Jj 5:55555 



8 S2s=L^ 



S S S Is s 



j.i 3 

"ii^7 

SS !j 



ttfi t 



paioioo 



essas 



ID 3533 



gsa 



SU 



fe fes b- 



E HEIGH 
INCHES). 



paioioo 



' g?3??S= 5 MS S 



13 
8858 hg 



I- in t- 



?;,= S 3 =S 3 



gtefeg 



fcfefcfcte 






IUIN) 



5 : i 



paioioo 



5S 28 
6 Jo'S 



5SS 



" " t^ ' 



1 Illll 






oioq 



il S 1^5^! 






jxr. r. 

K V h 
i 



1 



if* 

* ^| I 

c * J 

ill I 

S *"2 "S 

i 2= I 

3 SS 2 



2 



18 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



physical proportions vary the least from the common mean and who are 
naturally found in the great majority. 

The table on the preceding page shows the average height, weight, and 
chest measure of 9,226 recruits accepted for the United States military 
service in 1897 ; there being 6,062 native whites, 2,371 foreign-born whites, 
and 793 colored. 

The following standards for the United States service are based upon 
results obtained by skilled observers who, after careful study and the ex- 
amination of large numbers of men in civil and military life, have estab- 
lished the fact that there is an average proportion in healthy, fully devel- 
oped men between the height, weight, chest measurement, and chest 
mobility, which, however, will admit of slight variations without indicat- 
ing a departure from health. 



HEIGHT. 


WEIGHT. 


CHEST MEASUREMENT. 


Feet. 


Inches. 


Pounds. 


At expiration. 
Inches. 


.'Mobility. Inches. 


5A 


64 


128 


32 


2 




65 


130 


32 


2 


5A 


66 


132 


32* 


2 


5A- 


67 


134 


33 


2 


&g 


68 


141 


33J 


24 


5A 


69 


148 


334 


24 


5r 


70 


155 


34 


24 


*Hi 


71 


162 


94* 


24 


6 


72 


169 


34f 


3 


6A 


73 


176 


35i 


3 



In the British service, in 1886, of the men serving with the colors, 
901 per 1,000 had a height of five feet five inches and upward ; 931 per 1,000 
had a chest measure of thirty-four inches and upward, and 834 per 1,000 
were over twenty years of age. Similar data with regard to the total en- 
listed strength of our own service are not available, but as compared with 
our raw recruits the trained British soldier possesses a slight superiority in 
chest measure, but is inferior in both age and height. 

The Examination of the Recruit. The profession of arms is ardu- 
ous, and ample experience has shown the folly of attempting to conduct 
military operations unless such men as are affected with disease, predis- 
posed to its occurrence, or are unfitted to sustain fatigue and exposure are 
excluded and eliminated from the service. An effective or healthy mili- 
tary force cannot be made from imperfect or immature men ; nor is it true 
that every man who supports himself by hard manual labor will make an 
efficient soldier, since all his senses may not be keen, his joints not flexi- 
ble and he may not be sound. 

For determining the physical aptitude for military service many factors 
must be taken into consideration ; the requirements for recruitment neces- 
sarily varying with the social conditions of the different countries, as well 
as with the need for men. Some allowance may be made for blemishes, 
not affecting organic soundness, which have originated in the service in 
men who technically re-enlist, since their education in military matters 
and habits of discipline compensate for some minor weaknesses. In the 
foreign services, where conscription prevails, the lesser disabilities do not 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 19 

as readily disqualify as with us, and a man unfit for one branch of the ser- 
vice is assigned to another. 

The leading characteristics of a good constitution are thus enumerated 
by Tripler : " A tolerably just proportion between the different parts of the 
trunk and members ; a well-shaped head, thick hair, a countenance ex- 
pressive of health, with a lively eye, skin not too white, lips red, teeth 
white and in good condition, voice strong, skin firm, chest well formed, 
belly lank, parts of generation well developed, limbs muscular, feet arched 
and of a moderate length, hands large. The gait should be sprightly and 
springy, speech prompt and clear, and manner cheerful. All lank, slight, 
puny men, with contracted figures, whose development is, as it were, 
arrested, should be set aside. The reverse of the characteristics of a good 
constitution will indicate infirm health or a weakly habit of body. " In 
general, a weak constitution will be better recognized than described, by 
the softness of tissue, slightness of form, insufficient development of the 
skeleton and muscles, and want of harmony between different parts of the 
body. " The examiner should endeavor to judge from the eyes, from the 
whole expression of the countenance, from the conformation of the limbs of 
those who are capable of making the best soldiers ; there are as certain and 
as well understood indications for judging of the soldierly value of men 
as there are for ascertaining the qualities of a horse or a hunting-dog. " 

The room in which the examination is conducted should be well 
lighted and large enough for the men to exercise in walking, running, and 
jumping, as every organ directly concerned in locomotion should be sub- 
jected to inspection. Only those persons whose services are absolutely 
required should be present at the examination. The body of the recruit 
should be washed with soap and water before he is presented for inspec- 
tion. " It is not believed to be good policy to enlist men who, though 
able-bodied and intelligent, appear at recruiting rendezvous in ragged or 
filthy dress, as the chances are such men are tramps and vagabonds and 
will not make good soldiers. Men who, though attired in clean and re- 
spectable clothing, are found to be filthy in their persons should be 
promptly rejected for like reason." 

In the examination of the recruit he should, as advised by Greenleaf, 
take the position of the soldier in the best lighted part of the room, and 
be examined in the following order : 

1. The general physique, skin, scalp and cranium, ears, eyes, nose, 
mouth, face, neck, and chest should be examined and the chest measure- 
ments taken. 

2. The arms should be extended above the head, the backs of the 
hands being together, and the applicant required to cough vigorously ; any 
form of rupture is now readily discovered by the hand and eye. 

3. The hands remaining extended above the head, the man is required 
to take a long step forward with the right foot and bend the right knee ; 
the genital organs are conveniently exposed and varicocele or other defects 
in the scrotum may be recognized. 

4. Th-' arms are dropped and the man required to separate the but- 
tocks with his hands, at the same time bending forward ; this exposes the 
anus. 

5. The heart and lungs are examined. 



20 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

6. The elbows should be brought firmly to the sides of the body and 
the forearms extended to the front, palms of the hands uppermost ; extend 
and flex each finger separately ; bring the points of the thumbs to the base 
of the little fingers ; close the hands, with the thumb covering the fingers ; 
extend and flex the hands on the wrists ; rotate the hands so that the 
finger-nails will first be up and then down ; move the hand from side to 
side ; extend the arms and forearms fully to the front and rotate them at 
the shoulder ; flex the forearms on the arms sharply, striking the shoulders 
with the fists ; extend the arms at right angles with the body, place the 
thumbs on the points of the shoulders, raise and lower the arms, bring 
them sharply to the side at each motion ; let the arms hang loosely at the 
side ; swing the right arm in a circle rapidly from the shoulder, first to 
the front and then to the rear ; swing the left arm in the same manner ; 
extend the arms fully to the front, keeping the palms of the hands together 
and thumbs up ; carry the arms quickly back as far as possible, keeping 
the thumbs up, and at the same time raise the body on the toes ; extend 
the arms above the head, locking the thumbs, and bend over to touch the 
ground with the hands, keeping the knees straight. 

7. Extend one leg, lifting the heel from the floor, and move all the 
toes freely ; then move the foot up and down and from side to side, bend- 
ing the ankle-joint, the knee being kept rigid ; bend the knee freely ; kick 
forcibly backward and forward and then throw the leg out to the sides as 
far as possible, keeping the body squarely to the front ; repeat these mo- 
tions with the other foot and leg ; strike the breast first with one knee and 
then with the other ; stand upon the toes of both feet ; squat sharply sev- 
eral times ; kneel upon both knees at the same time (if the man comes 
down on one knee after the other there is reason to suspect infirmity). 
Take the position to " fire kneeling " ; present the back to the examiner 
and then hold up to view the sole of each foot ; leap directly up, striking 
the buttocks with the heels ; hop the length of the room on the ball of 
first one foot and then another; make a standing jump as far as possible 
and repeat it several times ; run the length of the room in double time 
several times. 

8. The heart and lungs are re-examined. 

9. The hearing of each ear is separately determined. 

10. The vision of each eye is separately determined. 

11. The test for color-blindness is made. 

The duties of the examining officer will be materially facilitated if his 
clerk or assistant be instructed in the positions of the examination, as the re- 
cruit will usually find no difficulty in imitating the necessary movements. 

THE GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS OF THE RECRUIT. 

The Manual for the Medical Department requires that " in passing a 
recruit the examining officer is to examine him stripped ; to see that he has 
the free use of his limbs ; that his chest is ample ; that his hearing, vision, 
and speech are perfect ; that he has no tumors or ulcerated or extensively 
cicatrized legs; no rupture or chronic cutaneous affection; that he has not 
received any contusion or wound of the head that may impair his facul- 
ties ; that he is not a drunkard ; is not subject to convulsions, and has no 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 21 

infectious or other disorder that may unfit him for military service " ; also 
that the recruit must be effective, able-bodied, sober, free from disease, 
and of good character and habits. 

The causes for rejection for service in the army of the United States, 
having relation to the efficiency of the soldier and his susceptibility to 
disease, have been well summarized by Greenleaf, whose admirable manual 
on the examination of the recruit, officially prescribed for the guidance of 
the examining officer, has been largely drawn upon in the preparation of 
this section. These defects, surgical as well as medical, may be enumer- 
ated as follows, a brief explanation being given to such abnormalities as 
are not self-evident disqualifications for military service even to the inex- 
perienced examiner: 

Mental Infirmities. INSANITY; IDIOCY; IMBECILITY; DEMENTIA. 

Moral Infirmities. INTEMPERANCE IN THE USE OF STIMULANTS OR 
NARCOTICS ; CONVICTION OF FELONY ; MASTURBATION ; SODOMY. The moral 
character should be scrutinized with care in order that enlistments from 
the vagrant and criminal classes may be avoided. The recruiting rendez- 
vous is a favorite haunt for these men and a study of their personal char- 
acteristics will well repay the recruiting officer for his labor. 

"The enlistment of . . . intoxicated persons ... is forbidden." 
This regulation is intended not only to prevent the admission to the ser- 
vice of men who at the time of enlistment are under the influence of stim- 
ulants or narcotics, but of those who are of intemperate habits. Long 
indulgence in habits of intemperance will almost .surely be indicated by 
persistent redness of the eyes, tremulousness of the hands, attenuation of 
the muscles particularly or the lower extremities sluggishness of the 
intellect, an eruption upon the face, and purple blotches upon the legs. 
Close and skilful questioning will often develop the facts connected with 
the antecedents of the applicant and materially assist the examiner in 
forming his opinion of the case. Even in time of war there should be no 
deviation from the rule that those who appear of undesirable character or 
personality, even if physically acceptable, should be promptly rejected. 
An army is always better without than with them. 

Cerebro-Spinal System. EPILEPSY; CHOREA; ALL FORMS OF PA- 
RALYSIS; TABES DORSALIS; NEURALGIA; STUTTERING. 

SPECIAL DISQUALIFICATIONS. 

FEEBLENESS OF CONSTITUTION (POOR PHYSIQUE) ; SCROFULOUS DIATH- 
ESIS; CANCEROUS DIATHESIS; SYPHILIS. The last disease, recognized by 
its characteristic symptoms, is at all times cause for rejection. It will be 
most convenient, while making the general examination of the surface of 
the body, to search for evidence of a syphilitic nature. In the detection of 
this no single sign will suffice, although the presence of two or more 
should determine the matter, especially if the man admits having had a 
sore on any part of his penis or a chancre on any other part of his body. 
The rejection of men oi poor physique, even if there be no definite lesion 
or abnormality, is of the greatest importance. Such men are the first to 
succumb to hardship and to contract disease, while their lack of vital re- 
sistance renders their case mortality unduly high. 



22 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

The Skin. ALL CHRONIC, CONTAGIOUS, AND PARASITIC DISEASES OF 
THE SKIN; N^EVI; EXTENSIVE, DEEP, AND ADHERENT CICATRICES ; CHRONIC 
ULCERS ; VERMIN. While skin disease of intractable nature is cause for 
rejection under usual conditions, in time of war exemption should be given 
only on account of long-standing or incurable diseases of the skin ; the 
milder forms may be treated with reasonable prospect of recovery in a 
short time, and the men should accordingly be held to service. A con- 
tagious skin disease should be cause for disqualification at any time. Ver- 
min indicate habits of uncleanliness which cannot be tolerated in the 
military service. 

Men whose constitutions have been broken down by poverty or vice 
are often the subjects of ulcerations of the legs, where the slight injuries 
to which so exposed a part is liable have failed to heal ; or if healed present 
large irregularly shaped scars, more or less discolored or adherent to the 
bone. These scars, being unhealthy, are liable upon slight irritation to be 
destroyed and the ulcer reproduced. Such men are unfitted for soldiers 
and should be rejected. Scars non-adherent, white and smooth, or even 
red, when recent, if apparently painless on manipulation; resulting from 
an incised or lacerated wound or a burn, not involving lesion of the sub- 
jacent organs, are not causes for rejection. In time of war conscripts may, 
with a design of evading service, purposely induce and keep open ulcers. 
Suspicion will naturally be aroused where a man, otherwise healthy, claims 
exemption from service on account of an ulcer of long standing ; as this 
lesion is seldom seen except in persons of broken-down constitution and 
generally in middle or advanced age. The appearance of the ulcer and the 
tissues surrounding it will furnish some evidence as to its age, active in- 
flammation pointing to voluntary irritation and a recent lesion, while an 
old ulcer presents reverse characteristics. 

The Head. ABNORMALLY LARGE HEAD ; CONSIDERABLE DEFORMITIES, 
THE CONSEQUENCE OF FRACTURES; SERIOUS LESIONS OF THE SKULL, THE 
CONSEQUENCE OF COMPLICATED WOUNDS OR THE OPERATION OF TREPHIN- 
ING ; CARIES AND EXFOLIATION OF THE BONE ; INJURIES OF CRANIAL NERVES ; 
TINEA CAPITIS ; ALOPECIA. The scalp should be examined very carefully, 
by running the fingers through the hair, for depressions in the skull. 
If any are found that are deep and abrupt in character, especially if covered 
by a scar, the applicant should be rejected the same applies to deformity 
of skull resulting from fracture. If the loss of hair is total, or if but a few 
tufts remain about the back of the head and the neighborhood of the ears, 
or if the scalp shows evidence of pre-existing disease, the applicant should 
be rejected. Considerable loss of the hair, either over the crown or above 
the forehead, is cause for rejection. The military head coverings are not 
of themselves sufficient protection against heat or cold ; there should be 
enough natural covering in the hairy scalp to provide against suffering) or 
disease from extremes of temperature. 

The Spine. CARIES; SPINA BIFIDA; LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE 
CERVICAL, DORSAL OR LUMBAR REGIONS; LUMBAR ABSCESS; RICKETS; 
FRACTURE AND DISLOCATION OF THE VERTEBRA; ANGULAR CURVATURES, 
INCLUDING GIBBOSITY OF THE ANTERIOR AND POSTERIOR PARTS OF THE 
THORAX. In lateral curvature of the spine rejection is demanded if an 
imaginary vertical line from the centre of the base of the skull falls one 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 23 

inch on either side of the spinal prominences. Arching o^the back, with 
flattening of the front part of the chest, are disqualifications when they 
exist to such a degree as to impede respiration or to interfere with the 
action of the heart. Men frequently present themselves for inspection 
with shoulders of unequal height. This is generally the result of habit, 
and is of no consequence unless connected with true curvature of the spine. 
The degree of this curvature, where it exists, will determine the eligibility 
of the recruit ; but, particularly in peace, recruits with rounded or unsym- 
inetrical shoulders are not desirable, although they may be accepted. 

The Ears. DEAFNESS OF ONE OR BOTH EARS; ALL CATARRHAL AND 
PURULENT FORMS OF ACUTE AND CHRONIC OTITIS MEDIA; POLYPI AND 
OTHER GROWTHS OR DISEASES OF THE TYMPANUM, LABYRINTH, OR MAS- 
TOID CELLS ; PERFORATION OF THE TYMPANUM ; CLOSURE OF THE AUDI- 
TORY CANAL, PARTIAL OR COMPLETE, EXCEPT FROM ACUTE ABSCESS OR 
FURUNCLE; MALFORMATION OR Loss OF THE EXTERNAL EAR AND ALL 
DISEASES THEREOF, EXCEPT THOSE WHICH ARE SLIGHT AND NON-PRO- 
GRESSIVE. As the distance at which the natural tone of voice may be 
heard in a closed room, when both ears are normal, is about fifty feet, the 
distance at which the applicant is to stand from the examiner in testing 
the hearing must be as great as the apartment will allow, not to exceed 
fifty feet. The applicant will stand with his back to the examiner, who 
is to address him in a natural tone of voice. When the distance is less 
than forty feet, it should be specified on the examination form, and the 
tone of voice lowered. Failure of the applicant to respond to the address 
of the examiner will demonstrate a defect. The personal attention of tbe 
recruiting officer or sergeant must be given to closing the entrance to eacli 
ear separately, by pressing with the thumb the lobe situated in front of 
the opening to the inner ear. Advantage should be taken of the absence 
of other sounds to make the examination. Recruiting officers should re- 
member that a man may be totally deaf in one ear, and yet may hear all 
ordinary conversation perfectly if the sound ear is not completely stopped. 
Deafness of one ear is a bar to enlistment, but in ordinary occupations it 
might not be observed. Deafness may be caused by an accumulation of 
hardened wax; therefore an otherwise desirable recruit should have his 
ears well cleansed before final action is taken in his case. All men enlisted 
for the artillery arm of the service at a military post or assigned to that 
arm from a depot are required, before such enlistment or assignment, be- 
sides undergoing the ordinary examination, to be examined especially with 
a view to establishing the fact of the patency of the Eustachian tubes and 
the integrity of the tympanic membranes, in default of which the men are 
unfit for that arm. 

The Eyes. Loss OF AN EYE; TOTAL Loss OF SIGHT OF EITHER EYE; 

CONJUNCTIVAL AFFECTIONS, INCLUDING TRACHOMA; ENTROPION J OPACITIES 

OF THE CORNEA, IF COVERING PART OF A MODERATELY DILATED PUPIL; 
PTERYGIUM, IF EXTENSIVE; STRABISMUS; HYDROPHTHALMIA; EXOPHTHAL- 
MIA; CONICAL CORNEA; CATARACT; Loss OF CRYSTALLINE LENS; DISEASES 
OF THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS ; ECTROPION ; PTOSIS ; INCESSANT SPASMODIC 
MOTION OF THE LIDS ; ADHESION OF THE LID ; LARGE ENCYSTED TUMORS ; 
ABSCESS OF THE ORBITS; MUSCULAR ASTHENOPIA; NYSTAGMUS; ANY 
AFFECTION OF THE GLOBE OF THE EYE OR ITS CONTENTS; DEFECTIVE 



24 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

VISION, INCLUDING ANOMALIES OF ACCOMMODATION AND BEFRACTION; 
MYOPIA ; HYPERMETROPIA, IF ACCOMPANIED BY ASTHENOPIA ; PRESBYOPIA ; 
ASTIGMATISM ; AMBLYOPIA ; GLAUCOMA ; DIPLOPIA ; COLOR-BLINDNESS (FOR 
THE SIGNAL SERVICE ONLY). The determination of vision requires the 
greatest care and patience on the part of the recruiting officer; it is made 
with cards bearing the twenty feet test types and test characters. To use 
the cards, a distance of twenty feet is measured off in a straight line ; place 
the applicant with his back to the light at one end of the line, while the 
examiner stands at the other and holds the card exhibiting the test types 
or characters in full view of the applicant and so that a good light falls on 
the card. Each eye is examined separately, and if the applicant fails to 
read the test types or describe the test characters correctly, with either eye, 
he must be rejected. This standard for vision may be departed from in 
the examination of candidates for appointment into the Medical Corps of 
the army and in the enlistment of members of the Hospital Corps, and 
applicants accepted who are the subjects of refractive errors, viz., myopia, 
hypermetropia, presbyopia, and astigmatism, provided these errors are not 
excessive, may be entirely corrected by glasses, and are not progressive or 
accompanied by ocular disease. The object of this test is to exclude from 
the service men whose visual defects are such as to prevent them from be- 
coming marksmen. Successful use by the soldier of long-range fire-arms 
demands that his vision shall be normal or so nearly normal that there 
need be no question of his ability to see the target at all ordinary ranges. 
A large percentage of men are the subjects of slight visual defects, not to 
such an extent as to disqualify them for military duty, but sufficient to 
cause a little blurring or indistinctness in some of the letters of the required 
test, which may be increased by the nervous apprehension of failure. 
Ignorance, stupidity, or fear on the part of an applicant are factors to be 
considered in making this examination, and unless the recruiting officer 
exercises sound judgment he will probably reject men whose vision is in 
reality good ; hence plenty of time should be taken and slight errors, such 
as misreading a P or T for an F, provided the majority of the letters or 
test characters are read with facility, need not be regarded as failure of 
the test. 

The Face. N.EVI ; UNSIGHTLY HAIRY SPOTS ; EXTENSIVE CICATRICES 
ON THE FACE*. Great deformities of the face large, livid, hairy, un- 
sightly spots, loss of substance of cheeks are so many reasons for rejection, 
as they are calculated to excite aversion and disgust in others ; they may 
prove prejudicial to the service by provoking discontent in the quarters and 
by exposing the sufferer to cruel and irritating sarcasms and jests that too 
often end in fatal quarrels. Loss of the nose disqualifies the recruit, not 
only because it may be the indication of a constitutional disease, but be- 
cause the consequent modification of voice renders speech unintelligible ; 
and the same objections apply in the case of perforation of the hard palate. 

The Mouth and Fauces. HARE-LIP, SIMPLE, DOUBLE OR COMPLI- 
CATED ; Loss OF THE WHOLE OR CONSIDERABLE PART OF EITHER LIP ; 
UNSIGHTLY MUTILATION OF THE LIPS FROM WOUNDS, BURNS, OR DIS- 
EASE; Loss OF THE WHOLE OR PART OF EITHER MAXILLA; UNUNITED 
FRACTURES; ANKYLOSIS; DEFORMITIES OF EITHER JAW INTERFERING 
WITH MASTICATION OR SPEECH; Loss OF CERTAIN TEETH; CANCEROUS 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 25 

OR ERECTILE TUMORS; HYPERTROPHY OR ATROPHY OF THE TONGUE; 
MUTILATION OF THE TONGUE ; ADHESION OF THE TONGUE TO ANY PARTS, 
PREVENTING ITS FREE MOTION; MALIGNANT DISEASES OF THE TONGUE; 
CHRONIC ULCERATIONS ; FISSURES OR PERFORATIONS OF THE HARD PALATE ; 
SALIVARY OR BUCCO-NASAL FISTULA; HYPERTROPHY OF THE TONSILS 
SUFFICIENT TO INTERFERE WITH RESPIRATION OR PHONATION. The con- 
dition of the teeth is to be considered solely with reference to the proper 
mastication of food. If there are not enough in the mouth for this purpose 
food is swallowed without the necessary preparation, and indigestion with 
imperfect nutrition and its consequent evils are the result. If several of 
the teeth are decayed, especially about the crown, it is probable that be- 
fore the expiration of an enlistment they will be so far destroyed as to ren- 
der mastication imperfect ; hence men who have lost the front teeth from 
decay and have many unsound back teeth should be rejected. The loss 
of the front teeth through accident is not cause for rejection, provided a 
sufficient number of back teeth are sound. Unless an applicant has at 
least four sound double teeth, one above and one below on each side of the 
mouth, and so opposed as to serve the purpose of mastication, he should be 
rejected. Exception may be made by the adjutant general in the case of 
a soldier who desires to re-enlist, if a report is made showing his age, 
physical condition as to nutrition, and the number and location of the 
sound teeth. If the front teeth remain and the double teeth are gone, re- 
jection is demanded. If the loss of the natural teeth is supplied by artifi- 
cial ones the fact should be noted on the enlistment papers ; but 'the artificial 
substitutes cannot be considered as equivalent in value to the natural teeth, 
or as removing the disability on this account for military service. 

The Neck. GOITRE; ULCERATIONS OF THE CERVICAL GLANDS; CICA- 
TRICES OF SCROFULOUS ULCERATIONS ; TRACHEAL OPENINGS; WRY-NECK; 
CHRONIC LARYNGITIS, OR ANY OTHER DISEASE OF THE LARYNX WHICH 
WOULD PRODUCE APHONIA ; STRICTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. Goitre dis- 
qualifies only when large enough to interfere with breathing or the hooking 
of the collar of the coat, or if recent or growing. 

The Chest. MALFORMATION OF THE CHEST OR BADLY UNITED 
FRACTURES OF RIBS OR STERNUM SUFFICIENT TO INTERFERE WITH RES- 
PIRATION ; CARIES OR NECROSIS OF RIBS ; DEFICIENT EXPANSIVE MOBILITY ; 
EVIDENT PREDISPOSITION TO PHTHISIS; PHTHISIS PULMONALIS; CHRONIC 
PNEUMONIA; EMPHYSEMA; CHRONIC PLEURISY; PLEURAL EFFUSIONS; 
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS; ASTHMA; ORGANIC DISEASE OF THE HEART OR 
LARGE ARTERIES; SERIOUS AND PROTRACTED FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENT 
OF THE HEART; DROPSY DEPENDENT UPON A DISEASE OF THE HEART. 
In measuring the chest the applicant should stand erect without muscular 
strain or rigidity. After the tape is placed in position and lies snugly and 
evenly upon the skin, and while the loose ends are held between the fingers 
of the examiner so that when the chest is expanded the tape will run 
readily through them, the applicant should be directed to draw in slowly 
and steadily a long breath until his chest is inflated to its utmost capacity, 
when the record of chest circumference at inspiration should be read from 
the tape. He is then to expel the air by counting slowly and steadily 
from one onward until he can no longer resist the urgent demand for in- 
spiration, when the record of chest circumference at expiration should be 



26 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

read. This should be repeated several times to insure accuracy. Many- 
men are extremely awkward in developing their chest capacity on demand,, 
and great care and patience are necessary in getting true measurements. 
It is sufficient to require rejection that the chest should be ill-formed, that 
its structure should appear to be too weak, and that the other parts of the 
organism should be stamped with signs "of debility and suffering." It is. 
true the risk is run of rejecting men who may afterward become very 
robust and who, by a long and successful life, may contradict the opinion 
that may have been pronounced in their cases; but the army is not a 
public sanitarium, and " one will be astonished at the number of men who, 
received because no determinate lesion of the chest was recognized when 
they were inspected, succumb afterward with consumption, or whom it was- 
necessary to send back to their families with broken health after their 
strength had been exhausted." A feeble man left at home may become 
strong; but sent into the ranks he perishes almost certainly. Recently, 
many cases of so-called " bicycle heart " have been found in applicants f or 
enlistment. These are characterized by hypertrophy, dislocation of apex 
beat, rapidity and irregularity of rhythm. Such cases are cause for rejec- 
tion, since under hard service they would probably develop the irritable 
heart so commonly found in the military service. 

The Abdomen. ALL CHKONIC INFLAMMATIONS OF THE GASTRO-!N- 
TESTINAL TRACT, INCLUDING DIARRHCEA AND DYSENTERY; DISEASES OF 
THE LIVER OR SPLEEN, INCLUDING THOSE CAUSED BY MALARIAL POISON- 
ING; ASCITES; OBESITY; DYSPEPSIA, IF CONFIRMED; HEMORRHOIDS; PRO- 
LAPSUS ANI; FISTULA IN ANO; CONSIDERABLE FISSURES OF THE ANUS; 
HERNIA IN ALL SITUATIONS. While hernia itself is a cause for rejection 
there is found in some men a condition of the parts through which the 
bowel would pass in the formation of a hernia that is known as " relaxed 
abdominal rings," and is considered by some surgeons as indicating a ten- 
dency to hernia. There is, however, no special evidence to show that hernia 
follows this condition with greater frequency than it does when the parts 
are normal. To exclude this class of cases would cause the loss to the 
service of many excellent men, and it should not, therefore, be considered 
a cause for rejection. Race exerts a marked tendency on the occurrence 
of hernia. According to Ssolomka, statistics gathered in the Russian army 
show that while among the Russians 1 man in every 250 was rejected 
for this cause, the proportion was 1 to 200 among the Poles, 1 to 175 
among the Germans, and 1 to 35 among the Hebrews. Applicants 
from the latter race are, therefore, to be examined with especial care in 
this respect. Bleeding or internal piles are always cause for rejection ; the 
external variety, if recent, or if they are old and single, and the applicant 
asserts that they have never been painful or troublesome, do not disqualify; 
but if there should be more than one old pile and they are larger than 
described, or if a single old pile is ulcerated or inflamed, or if there is a 
small pile associated with varicose veins of the legs, the applicant should 
be rejected. The flabby folds of skin are not cause for rejection unless 
very large. 

The Genito-Urinary Organs. ANY ACUTE AFFECTION OF THE 
GENITAL ORGANS, INCLUDING GONORRHOEA AND VENEREAL SORES; Loss 
OF THE PENIS; PHIMOSIS; STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA; Loss OF BOTH 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 27 

TESTICLES ; PERMANENT RETRACTION OF ONE OR BOTH TESTICLES WITH- 
IN THE EXTERNAL RING; ANY CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE; HY- 
DROCELE OF THE TUNIC AND CORD; ATROPHY OF THE TESTICLE; VARICO- 
CELE; MALFORMATIONS OF THE GENIT ALIA ; INCONTINENCE OF THE URINE; 
URINARY FISTULA; ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE; STONE IN THE 
BLADDER; CHRONIC CYSTITIS; ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. A sore 
upon the head of the penis, in the furrow immediately behind it or on the 
foreskin, is in the vast majority of instances venereal. This being the 
fact, the Government is entitled to the benefit of the doubt and these 
cases should be rejected. The same remarks apply to gonorrhoea. No 
individual can say positively that an attack of this disease, however mild, 
will not be followed by a stricture of the urethra. Stricture is frequently 
a sequence of gonorrhrea, for which reason all cases of this disease should 
be rejected. Further, it is a contagious disease which should always be 
excluded from barracks. Other acute diseases, such as swelled testicle, 
simple inflammation of the foreskin and head of penis, may or may not be 
of venereal origin ; but it is safer to reject the man than to accept him and 
afterward have him rejected at the second examination or discharged the 
service at a subsequent 'date. Phimosis, if marked, is cause for rejection. 
This condition, although apparently trivial, is occasionally the cause of 
serious reflex disorders. It interferes with the free discharge of urine and 
prevents a thorough cleansing of the parts from the natural secretions, 
which when retained act as an irritant, setting up inflammation and un- 
fitting the soldier for the performance of duty. 

Loss of both testicles by extirpation or disease, or marked atrophy of 
both or special sensitiveness of either, rejects. The absence of both testi- 
cles from their natural situation does not necessarily imply the loss of 
them from either of these causes, for they may never have descended into 
the scrotum. If the organs have been extirpated by accident or design the 
scar of the wound will reveal the fact ; if they have disappeared from 
atrophy some rudiment will still remain to show that they have descended. 
If neither of these signs be present and the testicles are not in the scrotum 
they are either still in the abdomen or are arrested in the groin, where 
they may be felt and possibly seen as tumors or lumps, and may be dis- 
tinguished by the peculiarly sickening pain felt when they are vigorously 
squeezed between the fingers. If they occupy any portion of the groin 
they incapacitate the man from their liability to be followed by rupture, 
and particularly from their exposure to painful injury and to strangulation ; 
but if they are within the abdomen, and the man appears vigorous other- 
wise, the condition may be disregarded. These remarks are also applicable 
to those cases in which only one testicle is present in the scrotum. 

Varicocele, when slight, is not a cause for rejection ; but it is presented 
to the examiner in so many degrees of development from an almost im- 
perceptible enlargement of a few of the veins to a condition in which all 
of them are swollen as large as goose quills and completely fill, by their 
mass, the scrotum that the determination of the cases would be most 
perplexing, even to a medical expert, but for the rule formulated by Tripler, 
which, if strictly followed, will exclude from the service men thus 
physically unfitted. This rule is as follows : " If the testicle upon that 
side is atrophied, whatever may be the volume of the cirsocele, or if the 



28 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

volume of the latter exceeds that of the former, the recruit should be 
rejected." Of 9,901 men examined for the volunteer service in 1898, 
varicocele, in varying gravity, was found in 21.17 per cent. Of all these 
cases only 6 caused rejection. It should be remembered that varicocele 
is markedly aggravated by service in hot climates. 

Affections Common to Both Upper and Lower Extremities. 
CHRONIC EHEUMATISM ; CHRONIC DISEASES OF THE JOINTS ; OLD OR IRRE- 
DUCIBLE DISLOCATIONS OR FALSE JOINTS ; SEVERE SPRAINS ; RELAXATION 
OF THE LIGAMENTS OR CAPSULES OF JOINTS; DISLOCATIONS; FISTULA 
CONNECTED WITH JOINTS OR ANY PART OF BONES; DROPSY OF JOINTS; 
BADLY UNITED FRACTURES; DEFECTIVE OR EXCESSIVE CURVATURE OF 
LONG BONES; EICKETS; CARIES; NECROSIS; EXOSTOSIS; ATROPHY OR 
PARALYSIS OF A LIMB; EXTENSIVE, DEEP, OR ADHERENT CICATRICES; 
CONTRACTION OR PERMANENT RETRACTION OF A LIMB OR PORTION THERE- 
OF; Loss OF LIMB OR PORTION THEREOF. It is a matter of primary 
importance that the soldier should have the perfect use of all his limbs, 
and that the completeness and integrity of these organs should be in no wise 
impaired. Careful inspection of the limbs, even to the most minute de- 
tail, will therefore not be neglected by the officer who feels a proper in- 
terest in the good of the service or in his own reputation. Old dislocations, 
usually occurring in the upper extremities, if attended by any impairment 
of motion or distortion of the joint are cause for rejection. The applicant 
for enlistment will, of course, put the best face on the results of these cases 
and stoutly assert that the joint is as good as ever; but he should in all 
cases be tried with a rifle, to see if he can perform quickly and easily the 
various motions required in the manual of arms and in the set-up drill. 
Even if motion is perfect it is doubtful policy to enlist a man who has any 
amount of distortion from a dislocated joint, because he has enough of a 
visible defect upon which at any time to hang an excuse for a discharge if 
from any cause the service becomes irksome to him. Fortunately, badly 
damaged joints are easily discovered, and the safest plan in such cases is 
to reject, even if the distortion or loss of motion be ever so slight. The 
same general remarks will apply to important fractures, especially if they 
have been in the neighborhood of joints. If followed by wasting of limb 
or paralysis there can be no doubt about the necessity for rejection. 

The Upper Extremities. FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE; FRAC- 
TURE OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA ; WEBBED FlNGERS ; PERMANENT FLEX- 
ION OR EXTENSION OF ONE OR MORE FINGERS, AS WELL AS IRREMEDI- 
ABLE Loss OF MOTION OF THESE PARTS; TOTAL Loss OF EITHER 
THUMB; MUTILATION OF EITHER THUMB; TOTAL Loss OF THE INDEX 
FINGER OF THE RIGHT HAND; Loss OF THE SECOND AND THIRD PHA- 
LANGES OF ALL THE FINGERS OF EITHER HAND; TOTAL Loss OF ANY 
Two FINGERS OF THE SAME HAND. Rejection is necessary when there 
is mutilation of either thumb to such an extent as to produce material 
loss of flexion or strength of the member. The common distortion of the 
extremity due to contusion or felon need not disqualify. Special care 
should be used in the examination of the thumbs with a view to the ability 
of the applicant to use them in cocking the rifle. Permanent partial 
flexions of the little finger of one or both hands, due to the effect of some 
particular varieties of labor, do not disqualify, as they in no wise interfere 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 29 

with the prompt aiid effective handling of arms. The permanent flexion 
of any other linger does, and should exclude from service. Redundant 
fingers are not always objections to a recruit. If the redundant 
finger is upon the outer border of the hand it is not usually in the way, 
and particularly if it be the left hand. 

The Lower Extremities. VARICOSE VEINS; KNOCK-KNEES; CLUB- 
FEET; SPLAY OR FLAT FEET; WEBBED TOES; THE TOES DduBLE OR 
BRANCHING; THE GREAT TOE CROSSING THE OTHER TOES; BUNIONS; 
CORNS; OVER-RIDING OR SUPERPOSITION OF ANY OF THE TOES TO AN EX- 
TREME DEGREE; Loss OF A GREAT TOE; Loss OF ANY Two TOES OF 
THE SAME FOOT; PERMANENT RETRACTION OF THE LAST PHALANX OF 
ANY OF THE TOES, OR FLEXION AT THE RIGHT ANGLE OF THE FIRST 
PHALANX OF A TOE UPON THE SECOND, WITH ANKYLOSIS OF THE AR- 
TICULATION; INGROWING OF THE NAIL OF THE GREAT TOE; STINKING 
FEET. In young men, the development of varicose veins to a degree of 
prominence that would wan-ant especial attention is rarely met with ; it is 
more commonly found in men of thirty years and upward, particularly in 
those of intemperate habits or of feeble constitution. Mechanical obstruc- 
tion to the flow of the blood through the veins may also be the cause. 
Moderate prominence of the veins in men who are otherwise healthy, and 
who are temperate, need not disqualify ; but it must be borne, in mind 
that the tendency of this affection is to become aggravated, particularly in 
tall men, and upon long marches with knapsacks and arms. The character, 
then, of the veins should be well noted. Sometimes the minute superfi- 
cial branches only are enlarged. This is particularly the case in the space 
behind the knee and on the inside of the thigh, and is in itself of no conse- 
quence; but when clusters of knots are seen, or one or more single knots, 
large and with thin walls, or a network of enlarged branches are found 
about the ankle, the back of the foot, the calf of the leg, the ham of the 
thigh, or distinctly enlarged veins exist, that are not necessarily knotted, 
especially if extending above the knee, the man should be rejected. In 
all cases when there is chronic tumefaction, dropsy of the limbs, or marks 
of ulceration, rejection is demanded. 

The condition known as " knock -knee " sometimes, though rarely, 
exists to such a degree as to unfit a man for military service. When dis- 
qualifying, it is impossible for the man to take the position of a soldier, 
and he is anatomically disabled from performing a long march. It would 
be said generally that if a recruit cannot bring the inner borders of the 
feet, from the heel to the ball of the great toe, within one inch of each 
other without passing the inner surface of the knees respectively in front 
of and behind each other, he is unfit for service. 

With regard to flat feet, the condition that renders a man unfit for 
service is that in which the arch is so far effaced that the entire inner 
border of the foot rests upon the ground ; the inner ankle is very promi- 
nent, as is also the bone of the foot articulating with it, and the axis of the 
leg does not fall upon the centre of the foot giving the effect that the 
ankle-joint has been dislocated and the foo t crushed down and outward. 
This extreme degree of splay or flat foot is not often seen ; a broad and flat 
sole is common to the laboring classes, and particularly so among negroes; 
but, unless an ill-fitting shoe is worn, this shape of the foot is not more 



30 



THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



likely to induce disability in long marches than is the arched foot of a 
more shapely mould. 

Rejection follows over-riding or superposition of any or all the toes to 
a degree that renders the wearing of a shoe painful; permanent flexion of 
the last joint of one of the toes (hammer toe) so that the free border of the 
nail bears upon the ground, or flexions at a right angle of the last joint of 
a toe (usually the second toe) upon the second, with stiffness of the joint ; 
ingrowing nail of the great toe, usually the outer side, if deep and accom- 
panied with signs of inflammation or ulceration. 

Re-Enlistments. When authorized by the War Department, the re- 
cruiting officer is permitted to accept men desiring to re-enlist and who 
present themselves for that purpose within the prescribed limit, " notwith- 
standing they may have some physical disqualification which would cause 
their rejection as recruits, provided they have no serious defect which 
would probably prevent the discharge of their duties as soldiers. In all 
such cases the defects and the fact that they existed prior to re-enlistment 
will be noted on the soldier's enlistment papers." In modifying its require- 
ments for. enlistments in this particular, it is the intention of the War De- 
partment to provide for the continuance in service of such faithful soldiers 
as have incurred disabilities during prior enlistments, which either do not 
or probably will not unfit them for duty in the future. 

Rejections. Of the applicants for enlistment a considerable proportion 
are summarily rejected by recruiting officers, prior to any physical exam- 
ination, by reason of intoxication, obvious defect of body or mind, or on 
account of apparently undesirable personality. Such rejections are not 
made a matter of official record. Of those admitted to the physical exam- 
ination only about one in four has been found in times past to be qualified 
for the military service. In the five years 1889-93, the total number of 
applicants physically examined was 101,432, and of this number 85,136 
were rejected, while 26,296, or 25.92 per cent., were accepted. 

During the past decade the physical attributes of the classes from which 
recruits were derived appear to have undergone steady improvement, the 
enlistments for the year 1897 showing the proportion of 702.19 accepted as 
fit for service per thousand examined. The colored applicants for enlist- 
ment have a somewhat higher physical average than the whites, the rate of 
acceptances per thousand examined being 786.71 for the former as against 
695.16 for the latter. 

The causes of rejection on the primary examination with ratio per 
thousand of the 62,029 men examined, covering the four years 1894-97, 
are as follows : 



Year. 


1894. 


1895. 


1896. 


1897. 


Average. 


Total number examined 


16586 


17,645 


14,659 


13,139 


15,507 


Venereal disease (rate per 1,000) 


14.89 


14.96 


16.10 


10.80 


14.19 


Other infectious diseases do. 


2.77 


6.97 


3.27 


1.75 


3.69 


Diseases of nutrition, general do. 


.36 


.68 


.27 


.30 


.39 


Diseases of the nervous system do. 


.78 


.74 


.48 


.61 


.65 


Diseases of the digestive system do. 
Diseases of the circulatory system ... do . 
Diseases of the respiratory organs. . ..do. 
Diseases of the geni to -urinary system . do . 


33.40 
36.47 
.84 
41.30 


37.75 

52.08 
2.83 
40.92 


21.15 
30.36 
1.02 
33.36 


12.48 
27.55 
1.52 
23.52 


26.19 
36.61 
1.55 
34.77 



THE SELECTION OF THE RECRUIT. 



31 



Year. 


1894. 


in!*',. 


]-'.;. 


1897. 


Average. 


Diseases of the lymphatic system and 
ductless glands (rate per 1 000) 


.72 
5.37 

8.80 
77.72 
5 25 


2.49 
5.44 

7.76 
59.67 
6.63 
.91 
11.50 
5.04 
.11 
8.50 
2.15 
36.50 
86.54 
1.53 
2.49 
14.39 
2.78 
9.80 
6.23 
1.19 
10.43 
7.88 
4.25 
20.01 
.17 
2.10 


1.84 
4.57 

8.53 
51.50 
4.09 
1.98 
6.75 
3.96 
.48 
5.46 
3.55 
44.00 
61.87 
1.30 
1.16 
11.94 
3.34 
5.93 
4.16 
.55 
7.37 
10.98 
1.91 
11.94 
1.91 
4.57 


1.83 
4.11 

5.10 
37.14 
4.26 
1.14 
5.33 
2.97 
.30 
4.19 
1.98 
26.41 
58.98 
.83 
.61 
4.64 
1.83 
1.37 
.23 
2.13 
5.10 
5.63 
.61 
7.15 
.53 
2.82 


1.72 

4.87 

7.55 
56.50 
5.05 
1.62 
7.82 
4.09 
.31 
9.48 
2.93 
38.26 
69.00 
1.26 
2.22 
11.31 
2.89 
5.96 
6.81 
1.80 
8.21 
11.49 
2.58 
17.61 
2.67 
3.26 


Diseases of muscles, bones, and joints do. 
Diseases of integument and subcuta- 
neous connective tissue do 


Diseases of the eye do 


Diseases of the ear do 


Diseases of the nose do 


2.47 
7.72 
4.40 
.36 
19.77 
4.04 
46.00 
68.61 
1.39 
4.64 
14.29 
3.62 
6.75 
16.64 
3.32 
9.95 
21.46 
3.56 
31.35 
8.08 
3.56 


Hernia do 


Other injuries do 


Over height do 


Under height do 


Overweight and obesity . ..do 


Under weight , do 


Imperfect physique do 


Mental insufficiency do 


Over age do . 


Minors do 


Married or having dependent relatives do. 
Illiteracy do 


Imperfect knowledge of English do. 
Re-enlistment disapproved do. 


Character bad or doubtful. .' do. 


References none or unsatisfactory do. 
Aliens do . 


deneral unfitness do. 


No vacancies ,do . 


Unclassified do . 


Total per thousand 


510.67 


473.45 


371.65 


265.77 


405.38 





During the war with Spain an unusually good class of young men 
presented themselves for enlistment in the volunteer service. Out of 9,901 
members of the Illinois National Guard who offered themselves for the 
United States service only 747, or less than 8 per cent., were rejected as 
being physically disqualified. It is proper to say that these men had 
already been examined for their militia service; which examination, though 
not rigid, had eliminated the more obviously unfit. The causes of rejec- 
tion, as compiled by Adams, were as follows: 

General Constitutional Conditions. Poor physique, 177; rheumatism, 
13; syphilis, 14; tubercular diathesis, 3; premature senility, 4; obesity, 
6; ancient sunstroke, 5 ; pediculosis, 2; chronic alcoholism, 1; chronic 
cutaneous affections, 3; asymmetry, 1; not stated, 6. 

Eyes. Myopia, 13; strabismus, 10; defective vision, precise condition 
not stated, 35 ; leucoma, 6 ; keratitis, 1 ; tumor of orbit, 1 ; purulent con- 
junctivitis, 2 ; trachoma, 1 ; artificial eye, 1 ; cataract, 1. 

Ears. Otitis purulenta, 21 ; defective hearing, 24; mastoid abscess, 2. 

Teeth. Extensive caries, 18; extensive loss of, 30. 

Nose. Rhinitis, chronic, 1 ; dermoid cyst, 1 ; deformity with obstruc- 
tion, 1 ; chronic pharyngitis, 2. 

Throt'f. Chronic laryngitis, 2. 

Neck. Tubercular adenitis, 3. 

Chest. Deficient expansion, 6 ; consolidation of lungs, 7 ; mitral lesions, 
15; weak heart, 1. Deformities: Flat chest, 6; rachitic, 14; muscular 
atrophy, 2; old gunshot wound, 3; deformity not specified, 2; chronic 
ulcer of, 1. 



32 THEOKY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Spinal Column. Curvature, 4. 

Upper Extremities. Ankylosis of shoulder, 2 ; ankylosis of elbow, 2 ; 
synovitis of elbow, 1 ; loss of fingers, 4 ; ankylosis of fingers, 4 ; drop-wrist, 
1; deformity not specified, 1. 

Abdomen. Hernia, oblique inguinal, 129; ventral following operation, 
2 ; recurrent and chronic appendicitis, 12 ; pot-belly, 3 ; chronic diarrhoea, 1. 

Genitals. Varicocele, large, 5 ; varicocele with atrophy of testis, 1 ; 
hydrocele, painful, 8; cryptorchid, partial, painful, 1; tubercular testis, 
2; epididymitis, 2. 

Venereal Disease. Gonorrhoea, 18 ; gleet, 1 ; suppurating bubo, 1 ; 
chronic orchitis, 1. 

Lower Extremities. Talipes, 3 ; flat feet, excessive or painful, 33 ; var- 
icose veins, 22 ; varicose ulcer, 3 ; unhealed gunshot wound, 1 ; deformed 
toes, 4 ; ununited fracture of great toe, 1 ; bunions, 1 ; corns, 1 ; ingrowing 
nail, 1 ; ankylosis of hip, 1 ; synovitis of knee, 3 ; loss of foot at ankle- 
joint, 1. 

Of the recruits examined for the British service in 1893 an average of 
405.54 per thousand were rejected. The most frequent cause for rejection 
was defective development the ratio being 181.78 per thousand; while 
impairment of vision was the next frequent disability and accounted for 
41.51 rejections per thousand. Heart affections, diseases of veins, loss of 
teeth, and defects of the lower extremities were among the other causes and 
were arranged in the order given. 

Marshall divides the causes on account of which recruits are rejected 
into three classes : 

1st. Diseases or deformities which a medical man from his professional 
training and acquaintance with the duties of the soldier considers are in- 
firmities which disqualify men for service in the army. 

2d. Slight blemishes which do not disqualify a man for the army but 
which an unwilling soldier may exaggerate, and allege that he is thereby 
rendered unfit for military duty. 

3d. Unimportant details or deviations from symmetry, or slight varia- 
tions from the usual form or condition of the body technical or nominal 
blemishes which do not incapacitate a man for the army or in the slightest 
degree impair his efficiency. 

As stated by Greenleaf, experienced surgeons will reject all recruits 
whose defects fall under the first two headings from a conviction that they 
render the men unfit or undesirable for the army ; but those under the 
third head are frequently rejected from fear of responsibility, a dread of 
official correspondence and to an ultimate damage to professional character. 
In time of war those coming under the first head should be excluded, 
while those coming under the second and third heads should be as rigidly 
held in the service. 



CHAPTER II. 

/ 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 
I. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

STRENGTH, activity, endurance and discipline, combined with sound 
bodily health, are the first requisites of the soldier; the foundation upon 
which the whole structure of military efficiency rests. These qualities 
may be largely obtained by a scientific system of physical training, regu- 
lated by the fitness of those who undergo it, progressive in character and 
calculated to develop tjie body to its full power and perfect conformation. 
As applied to the recruit, physical training has a special technical value ; 
since, in addition to the qualities enumerated above, it does much to per- 
fect him in military duties and exercises, instructs as to the best manner 
in which to overcome the possible contingencies of actual warfare, and 
greatly aids to bring about that peculiar state of endurance and habit by 
which the soldier is enabled to support the labors and requirements of the 
military service. "It is false economy on the part of the nation and 
cruelty to the men to expose them to the privations of war and the fatigue 
incident to campaign without fortifying their constitutions and providing 
that reserve of strength, vitality, and endurance upon which they must draw 
and without which they will break down." 

If to physical ability be added the faculties of quick perception and 
prompt execution, the combination is of infinitely more value than the 
same amount of sluggish muscle piled on the back of a listless and in- 
different mind and an irresolute and halting will ; these mental virtues 
being best developed by varied movements rapidly performed in obedience 
to the word of command. In the absence of such mental qualities it will 
prove of but little value to drill and instruct the soldier. 

The Untrained Recruit. In time of peace the methods of recruit ing 
employed in the army of the United States prevent the entrance into the 
service of men with muscles clearly undeveloped or such as are distinctly 
atrophied as the result of disease. Still, it is by no means uncommon 
that men are enlisted with defects or deficiencies sufficiently pronounced 
to exert a considerable influence on their health or value as soldiers during 
their term of service. Previous hard manual labor is far from being the 
equivalent of intelligent physical training. The deformities of occupation, 
due to the excessive use of one portion of the body and neglect of others, 
are well recognized ; and variations of structure from this cause are so 
frequent that but a trifling proportion of accepted recruits are fairly sym- 
metrically developed. The ideal soldier is a man of commanding pres- 
ence, erect stature, broad shoulders, strong, graceful and neat; and the 
3 



34 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

raw material from which these ideal conditions must be evolved is well 
shown in Prince Hohenlohe's graphic description of the men obtained 
in the recruitment of his own regiment : " The barracks were soon full of 
figures that \ould put to shame the most exaggerated cartoons of the 
comic papers. The awkward fellows, whose neglected carriage made them 
look like a set of botched-up images, tried hard, but in vain, to stand erect. 
Ill-made and ill-developed, their uniforms would not fit them, and if altered 
to suit their present figure would need to be remade when they should 
be remodelled by physical training. So, before teaching them a single 
movement of the military drill or providing them with uniforms other than 
their canvas fatigue suits, they were drilled in gymnastic exercises leading 
progressively and gently from the more easy to the more advanced, until 
finally they had reasonable command of themselves." 

In such lack of harmony between various parts of the body lies a source 
of marked physical weakness in the recruit. The well developed chest 
and arms in the average recruit are more than likely to be accompanied by 
spindling legs ; while the limbs of the left side are usually smaller than 
those of the right, an asymmetry which extends to numerous other details. 
As a general rule, weight, height and breadth may be said to be in direct 
proportion to the strength but exceptions are numerous and pronounced. 
Weight may be due to an excess of adipose tissue, tending to produce de- 
bility rather than strength. Height may be due to excessive length of 
legs or neck, both elements of weakness ; while breadth may unite with it 
fiabby muscles and fatty deposits. Few recruits, if indeed any, are enlisted 
in whom devleopmental deficiencies are not at once apparent. 

Determination of Defects. Accurate examination of the recruit 
will show his deviation from the normal type, from which the exercises 
necessary to assimilate him to the physical mean will be a natural deduc- 
tion. In this connection mensuration, inspection, and palpation are of 
particular importance ; but mensuration alone may lead to error in that 
one group of muscles may be over-developed so as to neutralize, in the 
measurement of a limb, the effect of the atrophy of another. The prelim- 
inary data upon which to base the physical training are, in the larger 
colleges, obtained by a considerable number of measurements; but this 
method, while eminently scientific and satisfactory in its results, is much 
too laborious and minute to be of practical application for the military 
service. In general, a proper course of training may be readily and satis- 
factorily outlined as a result of simple but careful inspection of the in- 
dividual. It should be remembered, however, that it requires most 
accurate anatomical knowledge to select the individual muscle to which 
a defective part owes its weakness or lack of symmetry. Not only is 
correct appreciation of its function necessary to understand the particular 
movement or combination of movements adapted to the development of a 
defective muscle, but to secur glhe best results there must be familiarity 
with its secondary and remote effects upon portions of the system. Hence 
proper physical training requires the careful supervision of an educated 
instructor to direct the exercises to the needs of the particular individual, 
and thus prevent the harm that may arise from the unintelligent and in- 
judicious use of what in well directed channels is a most important agent 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 36 

in the attainment and maintenance of structural development and physical 
health. 

Exercise in Relation to Muscular Development and Power. 
Exercise is usually regarded as implying action of the voluntary muscles 
alone, but in its effects it has a far wider range of application. Move- 
ment of the voluntary muscles is accompanied by corresj>onding action of 
the involuntary muscles; and the condition of these, their health, and the 
activity of their physiological processes, depends greatly upon the impulses 
excited by voluntary motion. Every organ in the txxly is capable of being 
exercised directly or indirectly, and in such as are not properly brought 
into action an abnormal state is certain to ensue ultimately. As remarked 
by Aitken, "All the parts of the organization of man are connected and 
correlated so that with the increased or diminished dimensions of the 
whole body, or any particular part of it, certain organs are increased, 
diminished, or modified ; and modifications which arise during the earlier 
stages of growth tend to influence the subsequent development of the whole 
man." 

Exercise increases the size and voluntary power of the muscles em- 
ployed. It accustoms these to unusual and extended effort and at the 
same time develops other muscles to assist in the execution of more com- 
plex movements. Under exercise against resistance the muscle increases 
in its nitrogenous constituents, growing by hyperplasia and becoming 
stronger. Such trained muscles are harder than the untrained, proliably 
because of the increased power of simultaneous contraction acquired by 
the fibrillae. 

Within a certain limit, resistance to the shortening of a muscle makes 
it more able to shorten, and greater extension of the muscle places it in a 
state in which it can contract more powerfully. Hence, to l>e of the most 
value, exercise should consist of movements of sufficient force to necessi- 
tate energetic muscular contraction. Actual work must be accomplished, 
and the muscles should be so used that the exercise is felt and fatigue is 
noticed. This requirement necessitates resistance as an element, and 
hence physical exercise may be defined as voluntary labor. Resistance is 
necessary to obtain proper contraction of the muscles, the contraction for 
their molecular disintegration and the disintegration for their renewal, 
since upon the constant destruction and breaking down of tissue depends 
the subsequent renovation upon which the strength and vigor of all parts of 
the body depend. 

Exercise as Affecting the Nervous System. In addition to its 
effect on muscle, exercise may be employed to produce prompt co-ordina- 
tion or for its effects on the nervous centres, which are quite as important 
as those upon the muscles. Proper physical training favors a symmetrical 
brain development, as exercise of the function of the centres governing the 
action of the muscles must favor the growth and development of those 
centres. Bodily exercise does not interfere with mental activity, and all 
nervous functions are by it improved in tone. 

Influence of Exercise Upon the Heart. As a result of exercise the 
action of the heart is increased in both force and frequency. ^ The heart 
stimulus is due to the increased amount of blood in its cavities, and the 
venous circulation supplying this blood is largely influenced by muscular 




36 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

action. "Every muscle is a little heart," and these by their contraction 
constantly tend to drive the blood on to the true heart and lungs. Exer- 
cise produces an enlarged heart ; this being due to the fact that it is a 
muscular organ, and shows with other muscles both the fatigue due to 
violent and prolonged exertion, and also the increase in size and power due 
to proper exercise and nutrition. " The fatigue results in dilatation, the in- 
creased power in hypertrophy, and one 
of the main objects of training is the 

A__Jjf 3 \^x ^ establishment of this hypertrophy." 

The degree of dilatation following 
severe exertion is more marked in the 
young and inexperienced than in those 
who are well trained, and it is in the 

FIG. L-Average Dilatation of Heart, Harvani former claSS that acute dilatation, Suffi- 

Boat crew after Race, i, Nippies ; z, before c ieiit to cause cyanosis, is sometimes ob- 

race : 3, after race. (After Darling.) . ' 

served. Such an accident, occurring in 

the untrained, may often result in permanent injury ; while under the same 
circumstances the experienced athlete might recover apparently complete 
compensation in a few hours or days. To over-exertion, as in forced 
marches, is ascribed the condition known as "irritable heart." Hypertro- 
phy, rather than dilatation, follows long-continued exertion of low grade ; 
while sudden effort, when severe, has been known to rupture a valve or 
weakened heart-wall. Hence the circulatory organs should be carefully 
trained before their powers and endurance are severely tested. The effect 
of continued and severe exercise being cardiac hypertrophy, persons who 
have such enlarged hearts frequently present symptoms of over-compensa- 
tion after the cessation of training. Under such circumstances the heart 
and arteries must re-adjust themselves to changed conditions, and there is 
some risk accompanying the degeneration by which this is accomplished. 

As a result of severe exercise, particularly when long sustained and 
carried to the point of extreme exhaustion, valvular murmurs of functional 
character are of frequent occurrence. The cause of these murmurs, in acutely 
dilated hearts, has been well studied by Williams and Arnold no evidence 
having been advanced contrary to their conclusion that the bruits are of 
mitral origin, and are due partly to a relaxation of the circular muscular 
fibres surrounding the orifice, and partly to fatigue of the papillary muscles 
which control the movements of the valve cusps. These observers found 
such cardiac murmurs in eleven out of thirteen contestants in a long-dis- 
tance run examined by them. 

As long as the heart is not overtaxed the pulse beats are regular and 
even, though suddenly increased exertion may make the rate very rapid ; 
but the ordinary military exercise, when properly conducted, should not, 
after a course of preliminary training, increase the pulse rate more than 
fifteen to thirty beats a minute. If at the beginning of a new exercise the 
heart action becomes irregular, the work should be discontinued and later 
recommenced in a more gradual way. Loss of breath is due to cardiac 
embarrassment together with fatigue of the respiratory muscles. After 
unusual effort, provided that the exercise be not too greatly prolonged, the 
pulse is invariably of high tension ; but if the exhaustion be extreme the 
arterial tension falls much below the normal. It is to be remembered that 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 37 

the physiological capabilities of the heart are enormous, and in judging of 
the effect of any undue exertion on it, the murmurs and irregularity must 
not be alone considered, but also the way in which the heart is doing its 
work, its strength, as shown by its ability to maintain a proper arterial 
tension, and its recuperative power. As with other muscles, not size but 
quality tells in the long run. 

Exercise in Relation to the Chest and Lungs. The chest is the 
most essential factor of a soldierly physique. Its development necessarily 
includes that of other portions of the body, for no one can perfect the 
capacity, bony frame and muscles of the thorax without also developing 
the back, loins and limbs. A capacious and mobile chest almost invari- 
ably means stout arms and, to a certain degree, good legs. 

During muscular action there is an increased demand for, and con- 
sumption of, oxygen and an increased production and elimination of carbon 
dioxide and other waste material. This demand for better aeration of the 
blood necessitates a considerably increased activity on the port of the 
respiratory organs a man marching at the rate of four miles per hour in- 
spiring five times as nmch air as when reclining at rest and this is one of 
the greatest advantages of physical exercise. Respirations are by it in- 
creased in frequency and depth, the lungs expanded, the air vesicles 
flushed out and refilled. Consequently the movements of any given 
exercise should be with speed and force enough to deepen and quicken the 
respiration ; and conversely, if any severe exercise is to be undertaken or a 
course of training begun, especial care must be had to develop the lung 
capacity. Since action of the muscles is checked and rendered less vigor- 
ous if the carbon dioxide produced by their action is not immediately 
carried off by the blood and eliminated by the lungs, it follows that during 
exercise there should be nothing to impede the circulation or action of the 
chest or lungs, and that all tightness of clothing, especially about the 
waist, chest and neck, should be avoided. Respirations fall during sleep 
and appear to bear some relation in their frequency to the energy liberated ; 
the production and elimination of carbon dioxide under exercise being 
particularly large in recruits inclined to obesity. 

Among recruits, even if the chest measurements be satisfactory, shallow 
respiration is a common defect. The lungs are habitually only partially 
expanded, and in consequence, through absence of reserve power and the 
lack of air in excess of actual ordinary needs the result of inadequate 
vesicular dilatation the individual becomes winded upon unusual or pro- 
longed exertion. Breathing exercises, with voluntary forced expansion and 
contraction of the chest, are most difficult of accomplishment by this class 
of men, they appearing to possess only to a limited degree the power of 
conscious control over the muscles of respiration. As the lungs contain 
little air beyond immediate respiratory needs, so the muscles of the chest 
are but little developed in excess of ordinary demands, and their free un- 
embarrassed action is the exception. The common and incorrect method 
of breathing among recruits consists in filling the upper and middle parts 
of the lungs at the partial expense of the lower. The collar bone and 
shoulders are raised, as is also the upper part of the chest. There is a 
slight movement upward and outward of the chest, while the lower part of 
the lungs remains passive, the diaphragm being but little used. As a re- 



38 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

suit of proper training a large portion of the lungs is utilized which is 
never used by persons of sedentary habits, the whole of the lungs and not 
merely the upper half being brought into action. When breathing is 
correctly performed there is no movement of the clavicles and shoulders, 
but merely an upward and forward action of the sternum, more especially 
the lower part, combined with elevation of the ribs and with abdominal 
contraction and relaxation. Abdominal breathing should be particularly 
cultivated ; it not being forgotten that the diaphragm is as amenable to 
training as is any other muscle. The lungs should be filled slowly and 
emptied forcibly, regularity in this exercise soon increasing expansion and 
serving as an excellent aid in securing an erect, manly carriage and digni- 
fied gait. The increase of lung capacity depends largely on thoracic 
mobility ; an originally mobile chest, even if of small dimensions, favoring 
it greatly. Generally speaking, the younger the recruit the better the 
results which may be anticipated in this respect. 

The habit of breathing properly is a great factor in longevity, and a 
roomy thorax and strong heart are no mean allies in resisting invasion by 
disease. When the latter has actually gained a foothold a few additional 
cubic inches of respiratory capacity or a small reserve of disciplined cardiac 
power may suffice to turn the scale in pneumonia or typhoid fever. It is 
true that many comparatively undeveloped persons enjoy fair organic health, 
but it is equally true that greater respiratory and muscular power would 
unquestionably make such lives more effective and of longer duration. The 
influence upon the system of enlargement of the chest cannot be overesti- 
mated. The greater expansion permitted to the lungs, the greater play 
allowed the heart, the greater amount of oxygen introduced into the system, 
the greater excretion of effete matter from the blood all these exert a 
powerful influence for well-being upon every cell of which the body is 
composed. To be truly strong the individual must be able to breathe 
deeply and well, and nothing is more certain in the military service than 
the dictum that " every inch a man adds to his chest measure adds to the 
measure of his days." 

Abel found in seventy-five out of one hundred soldiers, examined after 
a course in physical training, that the chest measure was increased from 
2.6 to 5 cm. Marey noted among the men under instruction at Join- 
ville-sur-Pont that while after a six months' course of training the fre- 
quency of the respiratory movements was actually decreased, there was a 
notable increase in the amount of air inspired in a given time ; the exami- 
nation of a large number of men by means of the spirometer showing an 
average increase of respiratory capacity of 500 c.c. rising from 3,800 to 
4,300 c.c. At the end of the course of instruction he observed that ex- 
ercises which at the outset had rapidly induced breathlessness and exhaus- 
tion were readily performed with little or no acceleration of breathing. 

In the British service the drill sergeant endeavors not only to expand 
the chest but to keep it expanded. The recruit is required to hold himself 
upright with the head well back and the chest inflated by the fullest in- 
spiration, and this artificial dilatation is sought to be maintained without 
giving place to a corresponding exhalation. In this condition, as analyzed 
by Davy, the expiration, being held in abeyance, obstructs the circulation 
and impedes the cardiac action. With imperfect respiration the aeration 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 39 

of the blood becomes imperfect, the abdominal muscles are weakened by 
overstrain and their action is impeded by forced depression of the diaphragm, 
while the increased measurement of the chest of the recruit is secured at 
the expense of its mobility and at the risk of emphysema. In this dis- 
tended chest the heart is displaced downward, the area of the impulse is 
increased, the beat is jerky and too powerful and may reach 110, with 
irregular force and time. This training is persevered in from day to day, 
making picturesque soldiers at the expense of their weakened vitality. 

Training for strength and training for wind are two different things, 
attainable by quite different means. Exercises which best favor develop- 
ment of the chest are those which relate to the upper extremities, and 
hence a course of gymnastic training is of particular value in the attain- 
ment of this object. All track athletics also must be considered as 
respiratory exercise, and rapidity of performance adds to any movement 
the element of respiratory effort. A light dumb-bell may 1 lifted and 
grounded so slowly as scarcely to quicken the respiration, or so rapidly as 
severely to test the wind. The voluntary muscles do no more work in 
one case than the other; but the involuntary muscles may do twice as much. 
Hence such efforts should always l>e preceded by scientific training. 

Exercise as Affecting the Kidneys. As regards the effect of hard 
exercise upon the kidneys, Darling noted the occurrence of a slight in- 
crease in the excretion of urea this probably Ixjing due to an increase in 
proteid digestion and not to an increase of muscular action. In his in- 
vestigations upon the Harvard University crew for 1898 he found that 
a small amount of albumin persisted during ordinary training, while after 
racing the quantity was greatly increased. Under the latter conditions 
the sediment contained large numbers of hyaline and finely granular casts, 
many having renal cells and blood corpuscles adherent. This sediment 
was in many cases exactly like that in the first stages of an acute nephritis. 
The renal conditions during severe exercise he believed might be interpreted 
as an active hypersemia, becoming intense during extraordinary effort, and 
probably dependent on increased arterial tension. Whether such hy] er- 
uemia ever leads to permanent changes in the kidneys is a matter to be de- 
termined by future investigation. Apparently opposed to the above are the 
results obtained by Forrest from an exhaustive examination of the urine of 
142 British soldiers, healthy and free from gonorrhoea, and marching from 
ten to twenty miles daily under full Held equipment. He found that out 
of the 142 men, 14 presented albumen in the urine prior to beginning the 
march. In 9 of these 14 cases albumen was not subsequently found, on 
testing for it both before and after the daily march. The invariable effect 
of the day's work was either to abolish the albumen found before the march 
or to lessen the amount excreted. Marching exercise, however, is pro- 
tracted, and in it the element of sudden and severe exertion is absent. 
Between the steady but low-grade expenditure of energy in the one, and 
the brief but supreme effort required in boat-racing, it is evident that 
legitimate comparisons are impossible. 

Weight as Affected by Exercise. It has long been recognized by 
athletic trainers that weight is one of the best indicators of condition. At 
the beginning of training a man always loses weight in fat, but it is usually 
more than regained later in increased muscular development, providnl 



40 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



sufficient food is given in proportion to the exercise taken. Ordinarily 
recruits gain weight, not lose it. Ammon, in a series of observations 
carried on upon a regiment of Baden grenadiers, found an increase in 
weight under exercise of about 2 kgm. ; almost identical results being 
obtained by Abel. At the gymnastic school of the French army at 
Joinville, as the result of the careful observation of eighty men, Burg 
saw the weight go up on an average of from 6 to 10 kgm., and be- 
lieved that this increase was due exclusively to muscular development. 
The results last mentioned, however, were obtained with selected men 
placed under conditions far more favorable to development than are found 
in ordinary military life, and such an unusual increase in weight is not 
ordinarily to be anticipated by the instructor. Eecruits as a class are not of 
an age or habit in which their weights can be greatly reduced by properly 
administered exercise,, the greatest loss of weight naturally occurring in 



172 
171 
170 
169 
1(>8 
IliT 
Ififi 
105 
.161 


MAY 


JUNE 


172 
171 
170 
169 
168 
167 
166 
165 
164 
163 


18 


1'J 


,'M 


22 


23 


24 


2f> 


M 


27 


H 


30 


31 


2 


:t 


4 


r, 


() 


7 


B 


9 


10 


12 


u 


Hi 


17 


1'J 


20 


21 


n 


2U 


24 


2(1 


27 


28 


29 














































i 










s 




















-*~ 








r-^ 


**S 






























"- 














































\ 









































































\. 












~~F 


**** 


^ 


^S 


S. 


~P~ 


*- 








2 




























i. 








: 




\ 












r 


**. 
























3 








% 






^s 


\ 




/ 












7 








V 


V 








V 


-* 


-^ 
















f 








f 
























y. 






















V 
















Hi 








c 






HO 


w 


AT 


ER 













"^. 










1 














1 














H 








P 
























z 










il 


,.. 












l 














































F 
























i 



FIG. 2. Average Dally Weight of Harvard Boat Crew under Training. (After Darling.) 

men of large girth and superabundant fat. Extraordinarily hard and 
exhausting exercise, even with conditioned athletes, when continued 'in- 
duces a certain loss of weight, as evidenced in the accompanying chart. 

Brief exercise, if severe, may 'result in considerable temporary diminu- 
tion of weight. Maclaren observed upon himself that as a result of an 
hour's energetic fencing the loss in weight amounted to about forty ounces, 
of which about thirty-six ounces remained in the clothing as perspiration. 
When the exercise is more protracted and the individuals are unused to 
such labor, the results are for the time similar. In the First Munster 
Regiment the weights in one company were taken by Barry before and 
after a six days' practice march at the Curragh. It was found that : 7 men 
did not vary in weight; 12 lost one pound; 4 lost two pounds; 6 lost 
three pounds ; 1 man lost four pounds ; 3 men lost five pounds ; 1 man 
gained one-half pound ; 8 men gained one pound ; 3 gained two pounds. 
The net loss of the 47 men was 42.5 pounds, or a trifle over three-fourths of 
a pound per man. 

A loss of several pounds during prolonged exertion does not by any 
means imply an undue degree of exhaustion, provided the individual is in 
good condition. The men who lose most are usually fully as vigorous as 
their companions. It is generally accepted on experimental grounds that 
during active exercise the energy is largely if not wholly derived from 
the oxidation of fat and glycogen, and that the muscles themselves are 
not used up in the process. The end-products of this combustion chiefly 
water and carbon dioxide are rapidly excreted through the lungs and 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 



41 



skin. The loss of weight represents very closely, therefore, the amount 
of fuel used up. Hence the man who has an adequate supply of reserve 
fuel in the form of fat and glycogen is in better condition to withstand a 
prolonged exertion than one who is deficient in those substances. This 
corresponds with the experience of all athletes. There is always a loss of 
weight during the early part of training, while a man is getting rid of the 
superfluous fat; but every athlete knows that when a certain point is 
reached his so-called " weight in training " any further reduction is ac- 
companied by a feeling of lassitude and an incapacity to sustain prolonged 
exertion without excessive fatigue. This form of over-training, known as 
" stateness," is in all probability due to a deficiency of reserve fuel. These 
facts emphasize the importance of maintaining at a proper proportion the 
fat and carbohydrate constituents of the dietary instead of sacrificing them 
for an excess of nitrogenous material a mistake which is undoubtedly 
often made. 

Exercise as Affecting the Functions. Exercise greatly increases 
the amount of perspiration, the evaporation of this surface moisture main- 



102 
101 


J'J 
If, 


-E 

17 


IS 


H 


?o 


D 


on 


"", 


2t 


| 


:Y, 


- 


1 































VI 






























00 




























/ 


ROMAl 

Ttr. 
98 

97 

M 


__ 


.... 





L_ 


^\ 


.... 


.... 


^ 


-. 


2 







^~ 


/ 


- \ 


7 


^ 

















































































FIG. 3. Temperature Chart of Harvard Boat Crew During Training and Immediately Before Race. (After 

Darling.) 

taining equability of the bodily temperature notwithstanding that heat is 
rapidly evolved. As soon as movement ceases the heat production is 
checked, the body cools off rapidly and the temperature may even become 
subnormal. Hence, following the cessation of exercise, there is great 
danger of chilling unless additional clothing be donned. After extremely 
exhausting exertion the temperature is markedly lowered. Williams and 
Arnold found the temperature of all the contestants in a long-distance 
run at least one degree below normal, while in three it fell two degrees 
and in one four degrees: Prolonged training also appears to reduce the 
average temperature as is shown in the accompanying temperature chart 
of the Harvard crew for the final fortnight of training such reduction by 
many being looked upon as evidence of overtraining. The rise of tempera- 
ture noted at the end of the accompanying chart occurred immediately 
before the race and was presumably of nervous origin. 

Exercise increases the appetite, partly because of the increased demand 
of the muscles for food and partly on account of the increased circulation 
of the blood through the liver and vessels of the alimentary tract, causing 
a more rapid assimilation of the nutrient material ingested. After severe 
exercise an increased amount of carbonaceous food and of water is indi- 
cated to replenish the system in place of what has been eliminated, 
increase of carbon is probably best given in the form of carbohydrates 



42 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



rather than fat; and of all fluids, water is the best. As a general rule, 
alcohol is harmful because it benumbs and deadens the nerves and will ; 
and, as every voluntary impulse must originate in the brain, anything that 
interferes with the communication between it and the muscles must lessen 
the promptness with which they respond and the consequent efficiency of 
their work. The use of a small quantity of malt liquor as a tonic during 
training for an athletic contest may not be harmful. 

Physical training, by lessening sexuality, conduces to morality and 
hence promotes military efficiency through the diminution of venereal 
affections. The positive value of exercise in diminishing genital irritabil- 
ity has long been recognized. 

General Results of Systematic Exercise. The physical benefits 
of systematic training of young soldiers are often very surprising. As 
stated by Rossignol : " Young men, whom one would consider very weak 
for supporting the hardships incident to military service, acquire in a short 
timeafter six months physical training a general development of the 
body which one would scarcely be bold enough to hope for; and become, 
under the influence of exercise, strong and robust soldiers." When physical 
training has been properly carried out, the men are educated to act with 
great cohesion, rapidity and accuracy ; each soldier having his individuality 
developed, his intelligence sharpened, his interest excited, and the general 
monotony of his work relieved. By such training, individual serviceability 
is increased, and hence also that of the whole military establishment; 
while, on the contrary, the diminution of future pension rolls is accom- 
plished. 

In the United States army, though but little in the way of systematic 
training has been done, the reports upon the results so far achieved are 
extremely favorable. With regard to the gymnastic exercises instituted 
some years since at recruiting depots, they were reported as being " severe 
and rapidly progressive, and giving noticeable physical development and 
elasticity of person, so that the individual is more quickly 'set up/ and 
sooner acquires good military carriage and movement." 

As a result of his work among recruits at Columbus Barracks, Butts- 
obtained the following figures after a course of instruction extending over 
an average period of three and one-half months. 



. ' 1 


'5 s 

ica 


, 
|1| 


Size when 
inflated, 
inches. 


II 


Upper arm, 
natural. 


Upper arm 
bent and 
muscled. 


Horizontal 
bar, times. 


Parallel 
bar. times. 


High jump 
in feet, 
standing. 




%H fl 

tc C 3 

5"' 


Iff 

- 2 

**f 


< *> 

1|| 


Average on arrival at depot 
Average at departure from depot. 
Average gains 


145.07 

147.88 
2.81 


2.804 
3.410 
.606 


36.53 
37.18 
.65 


30.18 
29.19 

'"99 
35 

33 

27 

2 
4.5 


10.4 
10.85 
.44 

12 

12.5 
9 

9.25 
1 


12.05 
12.66 
.61 

14 

14.5 
10.5 

11 
1.75 


3.87 
7.08 
3.21 

9 

12 


2 
9 


3.61 
7.23 
3.62 

10 

14 



1 
11 


2.76 
3.12 
.36 

3.5 

3.75 
2 

2.33 
1 


3.32 
3.71 
.39 

4.5 

4.67 

2.58 

2.83 
1.25 


6.50 

7.22 
.72 

9 

10 
4 

5 
2.25 


9.50 
10.99 
1.49 

14.5 

15 
5.83 

7.00 
5.25 


Largest measurement at arrival . . 
Largest measurement at depar- 
ture 


179 

184 
124 

126 
15 

1S..<i 


4.5 

6 
1.5 

2 
2 


41.5 

42 
32 

33 
3 


Smallest measurement at arrival. 
Smallest measurement at depar- 
ture 


Greatest gains 


Greatest losses 









Of the results obtained on cadets at West Point, a report from a former 




B. 




IMPROVEMENT UNDER PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

A. Condition at commencement of regular exercise. 

B. Condition of same man at the end of six months 

(After photographs by Way ) 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 



43 



superintendent of that institution stated that "the physical tests and 
measurements show marked average gain at the end of the first year's 
work of each class, in weight, wrist measurement, forearm measurement, 
upper arm extended and with biceps set, chest inflated and normal, and in 
tests with horizontal bars, parallel bars, and broad jump." 

Much valuable work has been done by Beyer, upon cadets at the United 
States Naval Academy, with regard to the influence of exercise upon nor- 
mal growth. His investigations are particularly important in that the 
system of record in vogue at that institution renders possible the careful 
comparison of physical development when unaidepl by systematic exercise 
with that which ensued upon the establishment of a comprehensive course 
of physical training. Not only did he tind a very marked increase in 
weight, strength, and lung capacity, as a result of physical training, but 
even the height of the cadets was much increased thereby, as shown in 
the following table recently officially submitted by him to the Navy De- 
partment. 

HEIGHT STANDING. 





AVERAGE INCREASE IN MILLIMETERS BETWEEN 
THE YEARS 


16-17. 


17-18. 


18-19. 


10-30. 


20-21. 


Total. 


1. From records of 4,537 naval cadets 1 , nor- 
mal values 


28 
28 
48 


6 
20 
26 


15 

12 
16 


19 
7 
12 


1 

2 
9 


69 

69 

111 


2. From records of 186 continuous individual 
cadets normal values 


3. From records of 243 cadets influenced by 
gymnastic exercise 





According to the above figures the total amount of increase in height, 
apparently due to exercise alone, and for the entire period of four yean, 
is 42 mm., or nearly one and three-fourths inches. This result is cer- 
tainly surprising, and shows that the results of physical training are more 
far-reaching than had until recently been suspected. The agent which 
can induce an actual growth of the skeleton of nearly two inches is surely 
profound in its effects ; and a gain in bone, as opposed to that of muscular 
tissue, can not subsequently be lost. It should be remembered that these 
cadets were trained during a period in which there is normally consider- 
able growth, and that no such increase in height could be expected with 
soldiers of more mature years, in whom the bony framework has almost 
completed its development. 

Beyer also noted that the taller the individual at the beginning of 
training, the greater also the increase in height, weight and strength 
induced by the exercise he is called upon to perform. Hence, in the 
selection of the recruit, he believes good height to be of prime importance. 
This can be accepted only within certain limits. 

Many accurate data from gymnasia and colleges are now available, 
which are of marked value to the military sanitarian. At Harvard the 
following average development, based upon a class of two hundred men, 
was obtained by Sargent. 

In this number are Included several hundred who left but the records of a rinjrte examination, were 
afterward rejected In the mental examination, and consequently never became 



44 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 





Average state of develop- 
ment upon entering 
gymnasium. 


Average state of growth 
and development after 
having practised in gym- 
nasium half an hour a 
day four times a week for 
a period of six months. 


Average increase in vari- 
ous measurements after 
working half an hour a 
day four times a week, 
for six months. 


Afire 


18.3 years. 






Height 


67. 974 inches. 


68.254 inches. 


J inch. 


"Weight 


134.981 pounds. 


137.123 pounds. 


2 pounds. 


Chest (inflated) 


35.067 inches. 


36.829 inches. 


inch. 


Chest (contracted) ., 
Forearm 


32.29 
10.03 


33.206 
10.760 " 


1 " 

i " 


Upper arm (flexed) . . 
Shoulders (width). . . 
Hips 


10.960 
15.602 
31.475 


11.903 
16.260 " 
33.875 " 


1 " 
* " 
2^- inches. 


Thigh 


19.612 


20.964 " 


H " 


Calf 


12.729 


13.232 " 


$ inch. 











The following table shows the effect of four hours' exercise a week for 
one year upon a youth of nineteen, working in the Harvard gymnasium. 
This was two hours' work more each week than was required of the regular 
class whose results are noted above. 





a? 
te 
< 


HEIGHT. 


Weight, 
pounds. 


IJ| 


Chest (con- 
tracted), 
inches. 


Forearm, 
inches. 


Upper arm, 
inches. 


Shoulders, 
inches. 


! 


1 

eg 


.So 

5 


Feet. 


Inches. 


Increase in one 
year 


19 
20 


5 
5 


8 
9 


145 
160 


364- 
40 


33 
34 


10i 
11 


12 
13J 


15f 
17 


35 
36i 


19f 
22 


13i 
15 






1 


15 


31 


1 


i 


li 


1 


H 


2i 


U 









In his work among the inmates of the New York State Reformatory, 
Way obtained most gratifying results from physical training ; the course 
of instruction being military marching and rifle drill supplemented by 
gymnastics and field athletics. Figures given by him are as follows : 

MEASUREMENTS SHOWING THE GAIN OF Six MEN, FOUB MONTHS' COURSE. 





h 










a 


S 




STRENGTH IN KILOGRAM OF 


Date. 


flS 


<B 

So 


i| 


+* 


^a 

41 ~ 


5s' 


fa 
a 


Is 


S' 


s 


. 




$ S3 







6 


] 


a 




** 


ga 


a 


I s 
P 


I 


a 


1 


w 


1 


|1 


eS 


June 10th .... 


3,716 


17 


1,612 


54.4 


880 


905 


310 


260 


7 


41. 


110 


90 


1 


17 


October 10th . 






1,620 


56.3 


880 


930 


310 


265 


8 


50 


161 


203 


12 


31 


June 12th .' ... 


4,011 


17 


1,569 


47.1 


770 


795 


264 


230 


3 


30 


90 


100 


5 


18 


October 12th.. 






1,575 


48.2 


830 


872 


280 


248 


6 


38 


145 


176 


9 


22 


June 16th 


3,639 


18 


1,637 


50.8 


800 


840 


220 


235 


3 


28 


75 


110 





14 


October 16th . 






1,646 


55.2 


890 


955 


280 


261 


5 


32 


107 


134 


7 


9 


June 17th 


2,681 


19 


1,769 


70.8 


870 


896 


308 


278 


2 


42 


150 


165 


1 


20 


October 17th . 






1,775 


76.9 


950 


986 


337 


289 


9 


42 


16d 


280 


9 


27 


June 12th 


3,530 


19 


1,736 


58.5 


830 


900 


284 


243 


1 


21 


100 


110 


2 


12 


October 12th . 






1,743 


62.8 


920 


956 


304 


261 


6 


50 


149 


260 


9 


33 


June 17th 


3,629 


20 


1,680 


59.1 


820 


860 


260 


244 


1 


29 


80 


130 





12 


October 17th . 






1,690 


64.9 


882 


930 


320 


280 


6 


40 


150 


232 


6 


22 



In addition to the above table the accompanying series of photographs 
by the same investigator show at a glance, and far more comprehensively 




B. 




IMPROVEMENT UNDER PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

A. Condition at commencement of regular exercise. 

B. Condition of same man at the end of six months. 

(After photographs by Way.) 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 46 

than could be done by figures, the pronounced changes readily induced by 
properly selected and controlled exercise. 

According to Onslow, of the 15,504 British soldiers that completed 
their full course of training in 1887 in the military gymnasia of the United 
Kingdom, the average increase was : Weight, two and one-half pounds ; 
chest measurement, one and one-eighth inches; forearm measurement, 
one-half inch ; upper arm measurement, three-fourths inch thus accom- 
plishing in chest girth in three months as much as had been gradually 
brought about, prior to the introduction of physical training, during the 
first five years of service witli the colors. 

At one time twelve non-commissioned officers, selected from all branches 
of the British service, were sent to Maclaren to qualify as instructors in mili- 
tary gymnastics. These men ranged between nineteen and twenty-nine 
years of age, between sixty-five and seventy-two inches in height, and be- 
tween one hundred and twenty -eight and one hundred and seventy-four 
pounds in weight. Of the results of the training of these men he says : " The 
muscular additions to the arms and shoulders and the expansion of the chest 
were so great as to have absolutely a ludicrous and embarrassing result ; 
for, before the fourth month, several of the men could not get into their 
uniforms, jackets, and tunics without assistance, and when they had got 
them on, they could not get them to meet down the middle by a hand's 
breadth. In a month more they could not get into them at all ; and new 
clothing had to be procured ; pending the arrival of which the men had 
to go to and from the gymnasium in their great-coats. One of these men 
gained five inches in actual girth of chest. " And Maclaren well adds : 
"Now who shall tell the value of these five inches of chest, five inches of 
additional space for the heart and lungs to work in ? " All these men in- 
creased decidedly in weight the smallest gain being five pounds, while 
the average was ten pounds. One man gained sixteen pounds in less than 
four months ; and it is unlikely that any of this increase was due to fat. 
Every man's chest enlarged decidedly; the smallest gain during the four 
months was one inch, the average two and seven-eighths, and the largest 
in a man twenty -eight years of age five inches. And he adds : " But the 
greatest of all changes, a change which I could not record, was the change 
in bodily activity, dexterity, presence of mind, and endurance of fatigue ; 
a change a hundred-fold more impressive than anything the tape measure 
and weighing-chair can reveal." 

Again, from the Eoyal Military Academy at Woolwich, Maclaren took 
twenty-one cadets having an average age of eighteen years, and in the brief 
period of four and one-half months obtained an average advance of one and 
three-fourths pounds in weight, two and one-half inches in chest, and one 
inch on the upper arm; while one slender youth of nineteen gained eight 
pounds in weight, and five and one-fourth inches around the chest. To 
gain five inches of chest girth and nearly that amount of lung, heart, and 
stomach room, with a consequent greater capacity for all the vital organs, 
is a matter, to any man, of almost immeasurable value. 

Rigal noted that chest capacity might increase even if the circum- 
ference diminished, a fact which he believed to be due to the absorption 
of fat. He found that among the weaker men at enlistment the greatest 
increase in weight ultimately resulted. Fetzer found that in the French 



46 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

army the chest capacity of 292 recruits had increased an average of half a 
liter after ten months of training. In a study of the Sixteenth Army 
Corps, Frilley noted that in .5, 999 recruits there was an average gain of 
5 millimeters in height, of 1.058 kilograms in weight, and of 12 milli- 
meters in chest measure. Mandoul, experimenting with two hundred and 
thirty men of the Twenty-second Infantry and a number of young men of 
the Third Hussars, arrived at analogous results, as follows: Increased 
height, after serving one year, 6 millimeters; increased chest measure, 15 
millimeters ; increased weight, 2 kilograms. 

In analyzing their results at the French military school of physical 
training at Joinville-sur-Pont, Chassagne and Dally found that 76 per 
cent of 401 men examined showed an increase in chest measure of 20 to 
30 millimeters. In the same number the circumference of the arm was 
increased in 332, forearm in 250, and thigh in 258. The dynamometric 
force of the two hands increased in 344 cases (86 per cent.), decreased in 
42 and remained stationary in 15. In the great majority the increase in 
strength was from 25 to 30 kilograms. As a result of physical training 
they found that " young men develop in chest-girth and muscle, the weak 
in strength, the awkward in agility, and the timid in confidence." 

In the military service the obvious results of exercise include develop- 
ment of the muscular system, increase of the respiratory capacity, stimula- 
tion of the nerves, and diminution of adipose deposits. Apart from these 
well recognized results, however, it should not be forgotten that the increased 
girth of the extremities is not the only indication of their added strength, 
since it does not take into the account their firmness and contractile power 
gained even before the growth began. " The quickened sympathy between 
brain and muscle is not readily demonstrable, nor are suppleness, agility, 
and self-confidence to be represented in figures." Although the effects of 
exercise are particularly notable in the former artisan or city-bred recruit, 
any man who has received judicious physical training as a soldier can 
readily be distinguished from his fellows who remain in civil life. He 
has a springy step, an erect and easy carriage, his abdomen is retracted, 
his head is mobile but well raised, his chest is expanded and his shoulders 
are squared. 

Exercise as Influencing the Occurrence of Disease. With regard 
to the part directly played by physical training in the prevention of 
disease but little investigation has been done, and sufficiently elaborate 
statistics are lacking. Hitchcock, however, in his observation of students 
at Amherst College, believed that systematic exercise redounded to the 
general health in that institution, the average sickness among the seniors 
being about half that constantly prevailing among the freshmen; and 
similar conclusions have been drawn by Sargent as a result of his work 
among the students of Harvard University. Of the correctness of these 
conclusions common experience is witness. A certain amount of muscular 
exercise has long been recognized as being highly beneficial in health, 
and as actually necessary to the proper performance of organic function. 
Life must be considered as essentially organization in action. Physical 
training undoubtedly promotes health as well as strength by quickening 
the circulation and increasing the respiratory powers. Systematic exercise 
aids in resisting disease, since, as a result of muscular action, healthy and 




B. 




IMPROVEMENT UNDER PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

A. Condition of youth 16 years of age, immediately prior to entering upon a 

systematized course of exercise. 

B. Physical condition of same youth at the end of three months. 

(After photographs by Way.) 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 47 

active tissues take the place of weak and sluggish ones, glandular and 
organic functions are stimulated and waste material is eliminated. Its 
directly favorable influence in the maintenance of health and the prevention 
of disease cannot be gainsaid. "A fine physique once gained is never 
wholly lost. He who has satisfied his physical obligations, whose credit 
with nature is good, is not visited by her heavy penalties for subsequent 
shortcomings. " 

Government of Exercise. Physical training should be begun and 
increased with moderation, and is not to be continued after great fatigue 
is manifest. Too violent exercise under any circumstances does more 
harm than good. The movements to be employed should be from time to 
time prescribed, and their execution systematized, in order to avoid injury 
arising from an unwisely selected and uniutelligently executed exercise, 
or the development to an abnormal degree of any particular portion of the 
body. 

Agility in the soldier is rather to be desired than great strength, and 
most recruits possess considerable muscular development and little activity. 
Hence the efforts of the instructor should be largely directed toward 
suppling the joints, and educating the men properly to use the strength 
they already possess. This is best done by light but continued exercise, 
for the trained use of an organ renders it more effective in the performance 
of its functions. While securing the modicum of agility and strength in 
the soldier the true aim of physical drill is to develop and keep in good 
health the whole body. 

To ensure the greatest advantage from physical training there should 
be a record book kept of each company, and an examination made each 
month by a medical officer with a view of noting the progress made, dis- 
covering the neglected parts which need strengthening and instituting 
such course in each individual case as will tend to gradually develop and 
perfect the entire system to a sound and healthy condition. Should a 
man have difficulty in executing an exercise, readily accomplished by his 
comrades, he should be carefully examined to ascertain if any physical 
cause can be found to account for it, especially as regards his heart. 

The best time for exercise is midway between meals, preferably in the 
forenoon from two to three hours after eating. Physical training in the 
early morning before breakfast is wrong in every respect, and may then 
result in as much harm as it is, when properly timed, capable of doing 
good. Men just risen from bed are wanting in nervous energy, have 
relaxed muscles, and are not physically prepared to undergo fatiguing 
exercise. If such a plan be long maintained a noticeable rise in the sick 
rate will surely follow, particularly in a malarious country. Early morning 
setting-up drill is a not infrequent fad of commanding officers which 
military sanitarians will do well to discourage. 

If exercise be taken too soon before meals, either the stomach, by 
calling the blood from the exhausted muscles, will prevent their proper 
repair and rest ; or the muscles, calling the blood from the stomach, will 
prevent the proper supply of gastric juice. If exercise be taken too soon 
after eating, it is apt to prevent the flow of blood to the stomach and the 
formation of gastric juice ; or by forcing the contents of the stomach into 
the intestines before gastric digestion is completed, and before the food 



48 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

has reached a condition in which the intestines can make use of it, to 
cause intestinal irritation and indigestion. 

As to duration, in beginning the physical training of the recruit not 
.more than fifteen minutes' gymnastic or setting-up exercise should be re- 
quired at any one time. Later the men can receive with advantage one 
hour's physical training daily, preferably half in the morning and half in 
the afternoon ; this being continued for five days during each week. The 
duration and severity of the exercise should be increased gradually, and in 
beginning or ending the daily period of instruction the lighter movements 
should be chosen. 

The exercise should be suspended whenever the men show signs of 
muscular weariness or of being out of breath. The pulse also is to be ob- 
served when necessary. If it become irregular or its rate rise to 130 or 
140, a rest should be required. It should not be forgotten that severe 
sudden effort may rupture a muscle, tendon, or even bone of attachment, 
and that hernia is liable to be caused by too violent gymnastic exercise. 

If drills or gymnastics must take place indoors, the room should be 
large and well ventilated ; but as a general rule men should be exercised 
in the open air rather than in buildings. In rainy or Very hot weather 
these drills are advantageously carried on in sheds or porches. 

During rests and after periods of work the men should not be chilled 
by exposure to currents of cold air. Whenever possible, the exercise 
should be followed by a cool shower bath for the maintenance of comfort 
and cleanliness. If this is not obtainable, the men, if heated, may rub 
themselves dry with towels before going into the cold air outside; and, 
after exercising, additional clothing should under all circumstances be 
donned to prevent chilling. Thirst may be satisfied by drinking cau- 
tiouslyif necessary at frequent intervals. 

The amount of energy to be expended should be intelligently con- 
trolled. The usual estimate of the minimum amount of daily muscu- 
lar exercise required to keep a man in healthful condition is that it 
should be about 150 foot-tons; or equal to a walk of about nine miles, 
without weight-carrying, on level ground. That this is no great amount 
will be readily appreciated if it is considered into how many appar- 
ently unimportant movements the daily expenditure of energy is divided. 
For the accomplishment of the physical development of the soldier a 
greater amount of exercise is required, and when this is properly distrib- 
uted over several groups of muscles, a daily average of 300 to 350 foot- 
tons as the total amount of work to be done is probably not too large an 
estimate. 

Without adequate preparation even the strongest man is unfit for great 
exertion. A young recruit cannot keep pace with a full grown and com- 
pletely trained man in the ranks, mainly because his heart and blood 
vessels are not fully developed nor specially trained. Failure arises usually 
from attempting too much at the outset ; and with excessive work at the 
beginning or with a sudden increase, as in forced marches, such youths 
rapidly break down. 

The taking of exercise merely for its own sake soon becomes to most 
men a task for which they grudge the time. Exercise should always be 
recreation. Unless it gives pleasure and relaxes mental tension at the 




B. 




IMPROVEMENT UNDER PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

A. Condition at commencement of regular exercise 

B. Condition of same man at the end of six months. 

(After photographs by Way.) 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 49 

same time that it occupies the limbs exercise becomes labor an added 
strain and not a diversion. The movements employed should be subjected 
to wide variation. Those giving general development as well as those 
educating special groups of muscles should be employed ; but such con- 
stant repetition as makes the work mechanical and tiresome should l>e 
avoided. When accompanied with music and perhaps varied by simple 
changes of formation, the object desired will be obtained without undue 
fatigue. Except in the purely military exercises, such as the setting-up 
and bayonet drills, the men should not be held under the strictest restraint 
and military discipline ; and too great severity during general gymnastics 
should not be used in repressing the signs of interest and pleasure which 
may be excited by competition and exercise. 

Purely mechanical movements, by their monotony, will become weari- 
some and lose their efficiency. Hence the best exercises for the soldier 
are those in which he does not simply obey a command mechanically, but 
employs his mind and body under the influence of present necessity 
fencing, wrestling, and boxing being of particular advantage. The best 
results of exertion are often obtained by directing the mind and efforts to- 
ward some other object ; and thus purely gymnastic exercises can scarcely 
be as satisfactory as out-of-door games and athletic contests. The instructor 
should render the work as agreeable as possible, and in taking due precau- 
tions against injury he should avoid exciting apprehension. Muscle ami 
mind must be gradually educated, and both undue tension and ill-regulated 
effort serve to retard development. It has long been noted that physical 
training in general, but particularly athletic sports, exerts a marked effect no 
the morale of troops as well as on their physical condition, rendering men 
more interested in their work and contented with their lot. This has its 
influence in diminishing the evils of desertion and drunkenness. 

Division of Exercise. Pilcher divides the physical training of the 
recruit into two parts. The first builds up to symmetry and muscular 
harmony men whose physique is below standard, imparts that ready com- 
mand over the muscular system which follows thorough training, and 
contributes to the quickness of mental apprehension only to be derived from 
exercising in response to frequently varied commands. The time during 
which the recruit should remain in this class is very variable, depending 
on the amount of deviation from the normal type and the readiness of re- 
sponse to treatment. The second class of training is purely conservative 
and aims at the maintenance of a well-balanced bodily condition. After 
this has once been secured, very little effort suffices to overcome the retro- 
grade tendency characteristic of all forms of life when stimulated to a higher 
grade ; but a certain degree of training must be constantly maintained, and 
the exercises, though not arduous, should be numerous and varied. During 
the first period the recruit should be held under medical supervision to 
ensure proper direction of the training and prevent excess of application 
but when he passes into the second class the medical inspection may be 
much less minute, though never to be entirely withdrawn. 

Training. In the technical sense, to " train " is to lead the most health- 
ful life possible while by appropriate exercise the body is prepared for some 
supreme effort. Diet is plain but otherwise unrestricted, but alcohol and 
tobacco are to be tabooed except on rare occasions. From eight to ten 
4 



50 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

hours' sleep should be prescribed. The methods of training employed of 
course vary according to the results desired. Under any circumstances it 
should be slow and progressive, nothing beyond the power of endurance 
being required and the heart and lungs being gradually adapted to the 
unusual labor they are called upon to perform. Training will not be 
employed in the military service save in the case of the few individuals 
who enter into department or other athletic competitions. 

Exhaustion. If the physical training of the soldier be not properly 
governed the condition known as exhaustion soon supervenes ; this being 
a guard against over-exertion as hunger is against inanition. Fatigue may 
be due to lack of sufficient contractile material in the muscles to do the 
work required or to the exhaustion of nerve force and the weakening of 
the motor impulses from the brain, but is undoubtedly largely determined 
by the accumulation of carbon dioxide and other waste products in the 
organism. In any case the sense of fatigue cannot be taken as the 
measure of actual muscular exhaustion, since under the influence of fear or 
excitement men frequently accomplish feats which, without such stimulus, 
they have previously declared themselves unable to perform. The will, in 
fact, rarely if ever calls forth the greatest contractions of which the muscles 
are capable. In general, the symptoms of fatigue are similar to those of 
fever. Muscles undergoing frequent contraction become painful, and if 
fatigue be great the heart becomes weak, the arterial tension falling from 
impaired cardiac action. Signs of exhaustion naturally occur first in the 
weak, young or illy developed ; and hence, as the personal equation varies 
so greatly, it is a difficult matter to determine other than by actual experi- 
ence the maximum amount of exercise which could be taken by a given 
individual. When a large number of men are being exercised together 
the capacity of the weaker rather than the stronger must be considered as 
the standard. Drill must be within the powers of endurance, and the 
young soldier, usually keeping up too long from pride, should be encouraged 
to fall out of ranks when distressed and- remain quiet until normal circula- 
tion and respiration are resumed. It is well, at first, to stop short of actual 
fatigue ; and hence recruits should be drilled with moderation, particular 
care in this respect being given the younger men. 

The results of exercise, beneficial if the task be moderate, are quite 
different if it be carried on to the point of exhaustion. Rigal noted among 
the Twelfth Chasseurs that following severe manoeuvres in a mountainous 
country the weight diminished, as did also the chest measure. He observed 
many cases of exhaustion, and noted that the men admitted to hospital had 
lost on an average six kilograms of their weight. Excessive exertion, espe- 
cially when combined with exposure to cold, is a fruitful source of nervous 
disease", and during winter campaigns nervous weakness, myelitis, and 
tabes are common maladies of soldiers. In hot countries excessive fatigue 
plays a most important, if not, indeed, essential part in the causation of 
sunstroke. Exhaustion, especially when frequently repeated, renders the 
soldier an easy prey to disease of an infectious nature. Le*ques noted that 
the French soldiers of the Alpine districts are particularly liable to typhoid 
fever, a fact which he attributed largely to the exhausting character of the 
duties required of these troops. All foreign military sanitarians appear to 
agree with Czernicki and Coustan that the increased sick rate from typhoid 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 51 

fever among troops during manoeuvres is krgely, though indirectly, depend- 
ent on physical exhaustion. 

Overtraining. The common symptoms of this condition are well 
known. They are, in brief, a loss of strength and endurance, so that a 
man previously strong becomes incapable of prolonged effort. This may 
be accompanied by a general nervous restlessness, listlessness, a lorn of 
weight, insomnia, and various digestive disturbances, such as anorexia 
and diarrhoea. These symptoms should not be confounded with the tem- 
porary collapse which is occasionally seen after a severe exertion, and 
which is more apt to be due to undertraining than to overwork. The con- 
dition known as overtraining may often be seen in soldiers engaged . in 
prolonged campaign and hard marching, particularly with poor food and 
frequent conflict with the enemy. 

The real condition at the bottom of overtraining is still somewhat ob- 
scure, but in the light of recent inquiry certain possibilities are suggested by 
Darling as factors which may have much to do with its causation. The first 
and most obvious one is the condition of the heart. A great increase in 
size and strength is demanded of this organ, and it may easily happen that 
it is called upon for more work than it is able to do, and that instead of 
establishing a compensatory hypertrophy it becomes dilated and weakened. 
A "broken-winded " athlete or soldier is probably one with a dilated, flabby 
heart. The second possible factor is the condition of nutrition. This is 
more difficult of demonstration than the first. The nutrition may be dis- 
turbed in two ways, either by an improper diet, in which the nutritive 
elements are not apportioned to the needs of the body, or by disturbed 
digestion, as a result of which the food taken into the body is not utilized. 
That both of these contingencies may occur has been sufficiently demon- 
strated. Further, as already stated, the influence of exhaustion of reserve 
fuel, in the form of fat and glycogen, in the production of overtraining, is 
undoubtedly of great importance. The third factor may be simple over- 
work. This is not so likely as the two preceding; for, when properly 
nourished, the capacity for work on the part of healthy young men is 
certainly much greater than that demanded in training. The peculiarity 
of severe training, however, is its concentration. It may be that the ex- 
cessive work accomplished in a brief space of time exhausts the muscles so 
that they do not recuperate before being called upon for a repetition of the 
work that there is, so to speak, an accumulation of fatigue, and that this 
constitutes overtraining. The fourth factor which suggests itself is a 
nervous one, and this, while more intangible than the others, is unques- 
tionably important. In the present state of our knowledge it can be only 
surmised, not proved. It is well known that there is a nervous fatigue 
entirely distinct from muscular fatigue and resulting from prolonged anxiety, 
from monotony of work, and from numerous other causes. It may be that 
anxiety leads to a condition of nervous exhaustion, and that this nervous 
exhaustion contributes to overtraining. 

No one of these factors will account for all cases of overtraining and 
probably more than one cause must be admitted. At any rate it is safe to 
suggest certain points which should be borne in mind in laying out any 
course of training. They are (1) not to throw too much work upon the 
muscles, and especially upon the heart, until they are strengthened by pre- 



52 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

liminary work; (2) to watch the nutrition carefully, and (3) to avoid 
nervous fatigue by providing a certain variety of exercise, and by not con- 
fining the attention too closely to the results to be attained. 

Proper Physical Proportions. While the physically perfect man 
is a figment of the imagination, the following comparative measurements, 
as given by Blaikie, show the ideal proportionate development which 
physical training endeavors to produce in soldiers. 

(1) The neck, muscled arms and legs around the calves should measure 
the same. 

(2) The upper arms relaxed should measure two to two and one-half 
inches more than the forearm. 

(3) The circumference of the shoulder should be about four inches more 
than that of the neck. 

(4) The circumference of the shoulders should be about four inches 
more than that of the muscular chest inflated. 

(5) The difference between the expanded and unexpanded respiratory 
chest should be about four inches. 

(6) The muscular chest expanded should be eight to ten inches larger 
than the smallest natural waist. 

(7) The chest width should be about two and one -half inches more 
than the chest depth. 

(8) The largest hip measurement should be four to five inches larger 
than the smallest natural waist measurement. 

(9) The thigh should measure six or seven inches more than the calf. 
Development of Special Parts. As summarized by Maclaren, 

"where the activity is, there will be the development." Bearing this fact 
in mind, the determination of muscular growth becomes at once simplified 
and readily accomplished. While the exercises which bring into action 
any given set of muscles are very numerous, a few may here be given, 
which, on account of their simplicity and the fact that either inexpensive 
apparatus, or none at all, is required for their accomplishment, are practi- 
cally adapted to the needs of the military service. A larger variety of 
movements, essential for the physical culture of the weak, dwarfed and 
undeveloped of civil life, are scarcely to be required in the case of the re- 
cruit, himself already free from blemish and selected under standards 
which ensure his general physical superiority to the class from which he is 
derived. The exercises may be conveniently arranged as follows : 

1. To develop the calf of the leg (a) the seventeenth exercise of the 
setting-up drill is unsurpassed. To this may be added, (J) running on the 
toes, (c) jumping both high and flat and (d) hopping. The fourteenth 
and fifteenth exercises of the setting-up drill are also valuable. 

2. To increase the size and power of the shin, muscles (a) the thirteenth 
exercise of the setting-up drill is probably the best. This exercise may be 
supplemented by (b) balancing on one foot, holding the other clear of* the 
floor and then drawing it up as nearly as possible to the front of its own 
ankle, (c) Walking on the heels serves the same purpose. 

3. To develop the anterior muscles of the thigh (a) the fourteenth 
exercise of the setting-up drill may be employed. A more severe tax is 
(&) by extending one foot either front or rear and then stooping down 
wholly on the other foot, (c) Jumping, either high or flat, is admirable 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 63 

for the thighs; as are also (d) fast walking and (*) running. (/) Hopping, 
excellent for the calves, is hardly less so for the front of the thighs, (g) 
Cycling and (h) horse exercise also enlarge these important musclei. 

4. To develop the thigh posteriorly (a) the eleventh setting-up exercise 
may be employed. (ft) Hill climbing is excellent; while (c) running with 
the foot thrown high behind is best of all. 

5. To add strength to the loins (a) the eighth, (ft) the eleventh and 
(c) the twelfth setting-up exercises may be employed, (d) Bending down, 

and touching the floor with light dumb-bells the knees being kept rigid 

is probably the best exercise for these muscles. 

6. The abdominal muscles are well brought into action by (a) the 
eighth setting-up exercise ; (b) the eleventh and (c) twelfth exercises having 
a less powerful influence in this respect. The best method consists (d) in 
lying on the back and drawing the straightened legs upward until the 
vertical position is readied and then lowering them until horizontal. 
Another method consists (e) in taking the same recumbent position, keep- 
ing the legs down and drawing up the body until sitting erect. (/) Running 
implies great activity of these muscles. 

7. To strengthen the" sides of the waist (a) the ninth setting-up exercise 
may be employed. A better method than this, however, consists (b) in 
extending one hand vertically above the head, while the other is brought 
down against the thigh, the arms rapidly alternating in position. 

8. To develop the trunk above the waist the (a) first, (b) second, (c) 
third, (d) fourth, (e) sixth and (/) seventh setting-up exercises are all ex- 
cellent and each should be briefly employed in its turn. For more severe 
exercise these motions may be carried out with light dumb-bells. 

9. To enlarge and strengthen the front of the chest (a) the exercises 
given below for the development of the biceps and triceps will be of 
advantage. Of particular value in this connection is (b) the second setting- 
up exercise, (c) Using dumb-bells witli the arms extended at right angles 
to the body, and moving them up or down for a foot or so, is one of the 
best exercises for the upper portion of the pectoral muscles. 

10. In filling out the shoulders and upper back (a) the arms, hanging 
at the sides, may be carried backward and upward, keeping the arms 
parallel and straight at the elbows. They are held in position a moment 
and then allowed to drop slowly back to the sides. Light weights or dumb- 
bells may be advantageously used in the execution of this movement, (ft) 
The second and (c) the fourth setting-up exercises are excellent for the 
development of this region. 

11. To bring up the muscles of the front and side of the shoulder (a) 
the holding of weights at arms' length is excellent. The weight of the 
hands, as in boxing, or the sabre or foil, falls directly at this point, (ft) 
With the elbows straightened and the arms held parallel the bells are raised 
vertically over the head and then returned to the original position, (c) 
Holding the bells at the side, they are raised l>ehind as far as possible and 
then lowered as before. 

12. To develop the neck (a) carry the head forward and back, and 
also move it laterally, (ft) Resting on the head and heels the so-called 
"wrestler's bridge " is an admirable exercise for this purpose. 

13. The triceps muscle is brought into action in (a) the first portion of 



54 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



the seventh setting-up exercise. A better exercise, however, is (b) to push 
up light dumb-bells vertically above the head. A more severe test is (c) 
to stand facing a wall and about two feet from it. The hands are placed 
on the wall a*bout three feet apart ; the body is allowed to fall slowly in 
until the chest nearly touches the wall and is then pushed back until the 
erect position is again assumed. 

14. To enlarge the biceps (a) .the use of light dumb-bells or other 
weights is desirable. Starting with these held at the sides, they should 
be raised slowly and steadily in front until they nearly touch the shoulder. 
The neck is held well back and the bells are lowered slowly to the sides. 
(b) Picking up weights or (c) holding weights at arms' length are valuable 
exercises in this connection. 

15. For the development of the forearm (a) the fifth setting-up exercise 
is admirable. It should, however, be assisted (b) by flexion and extension 
of the wrist and (c) by the motions of pronation and supination, preferably 
with light weights. 

16. The development of the muscles of the hand is provided for (a) in 
the fifth setting-up exercise. For improving the grasp of the hand (J) the 
simple squeezing of a rubber ball, a wad of any elastic material, or even 
paper, will soon tell. 

17. For the development of the lungs themselves deep breathing is 
essential; and, as this is induced by any active exertion, marked improve- 
ment will follow brisk general exercise irrespective of special physical 
training. Excellent lateral chest expansion follows the use of the first 
and fifth setting-up exercises. To deepen the chest employ the eleventh 
setting-up exercise, or (c) hold the arms horizontally in front and slowly 
raise them to the vertical position. The head should be held high, prefer- 
ably even back of the vertical line. 

General Plan for Physical Development. Maclaren suggests the 
following system of gymnastics as fitted to afford harmonious development. 
First : an introductory course of posturing and light exercise with dumb- 
bells and bar-bells. Second : leaping the horizontal bar, vaulting bar and 
horse. Third: parallel bars, swinging rings, ladder, horizontal bar and 
plank. Fourth : climbing the pole fixed, slanting, turning ropes, ros- 
ary and mast. 

A schedule for the varied instruction of a company where but little 
gymnastic apparatus is available, or only that which could be put up at 
any post, as given by Butts, is as follows : 



Lessor 


i. Ten minutes drill. 


Ten minutes drill. 


Ten minutes drill. 


1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 


Rifle drill 


Running and walking 


Calisthenics. 
Barbell. 
Medicine ball. 
Climbing ropes, planks, etc. 
Horizontal beams. 
Bar-bells. 
Medicine ball. 
Cock-fight. 
Carrying wounded. 
Wall scaling. 


Dumb-bells 
Calisthenics. 


Hurdling and sprinting 


Wall scaling 


Rifle drill . . 


Long and high jumping 


Rifle drill 


Running and passing obstacles. 
Hurdling and sprinting 


Calisthenics 
Indian clubs 
Dumb-bells 
Rifle drill 


Wall scaling 


Climbing ropes, planks, etc. . . . 
Long and high jumping 


Calisthenics 


Horizontal beams 





To the exercises as prescribed above by Butts may be advantageously 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 66 

added wrestling (the most generally valuable of all exercises), boxing, 
fencing, and broad-sword exercise, bayonet and sabre drill. "Where such 
apparatus is available, the use of the chest weights and rowing machine 
will be found of the greatest advantage. . 

At least once a week during the season field si>ort8 should be indulged 
in ; such general exercises as hurdling and running at the various distances 
being particularly encouraged. Where prizes are to be given they should 
not be awarded for excellence in any one sport or event, but should be 
reserved for the best all-around athletes the men who excel under any 
conditions which may be imposed upon them. It should always }>e remem- 
bered that the athletio specialist is of but little advantage in the military 
service. 

For the use of the trained soldier there should be, in every garrison, 
walls for practice in the escalade by mutual support, hurdles and ditches 
to leap, banks to jump off, and bars to vault. These exercises, at first 
practised without the equipment, should ultimately l>e done in heavy 
marching order. The changes should be rung on these exercises and they 
should be performed at least two hours weekly. 

Whatever be the course of instruction employed, a carefully prepared 
scheme possessing both the elements of pastime and instruction should 
always be developed. Such a scheme should not, however, be of too 
military a character ; and set movement should be largely avoided, as being 
too mechanical and monotonous to be attractive to the soldier. Under 
any circumstances the men should be divided into squads according to 
proficiency, so that such exercises may be selected as will give the best 
results. One set may need strength, while another shows the awkward 
powers of the laborer and requires agility. 

Hartwell thus enumerates the four conditions which physical educa- 
tion must meet in order to be successful: 

1. It must have a direct and large effect upon the health. It must 
build up vitality. The large muscular groups of the body, the muscles of 
the back, the waist, the chest, the thighs, must be made to contract with 
vigor a large number of times. It is through such vigorous contraction of 
these large groups that the heart is strengthened, the lungs are brought to 
their best condition of development, and the digestive system is stimulated 
to more perfect action. Upon the satisfactory working of these three 
systems health and vigor largely depend. 

2. There should be that training which will confer -skill in handling 
the body. The hands, arms, and body should be trained to act with skill 
and activity. 'A high degree of co-ordination should be rendered easily 
possible. The muscles of the trunk and the nerve centres governing them 
must be brought into that condition of discipline which will enable them 
to act with the greatest readiness and freedom. 

3. There should be secured that control of the body which we call good 
carriage, graceful, vigorous action, not merely in walking, but in all of the 
positions and exercises which are required of the soldier. 

4. The psychological elements courage, coolness, self-control and self- 
reliance should be prominently brought out. 

As summarized by Hyde : " That exercise is best which reaches the 
largest number and does most for the weakest men. That exercise is best 



56 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

which makes the hardest work attractive. That exercise is best which 
most co-ordinates body, mind, and will." 

Physical Training in Foreign Services. In France, Germany and 
Austria a compulsory system of physical training is in force in all educa- 
tional institutions, both civil and military, with resulting marked influence 
upon the national physical development. The soldier after his enrollment 
continues a course of physical training with which as a boy and youth 
he has already become familiar, and the main features of which still re- 
main the essentials in his military education. Among the schools of 
England, as in our own, no special gymnastic training is officially re- 
quired, the taking of proper exercise being left largely to the individual ; 
much to his physical disadvantage when compared with the corresponding 
classes of the countries just named, and to unnecessary detriment of the 
military service of which he may ultimately become a part. 

In most foreign services the physical training of the soldier begins 
immediately he joins, and is continued to the end of his service with the 
colors. There is no such thing as a man commencing a course of physical 
training and being taken away in the midst of it for military drill or target 
practice; to return after a lengthy absence to begin again, having forgotten 
much that he may have been taught and lost much of the benefit he may 
have derived. 'Once started, his training continues systematically and 
progressively to the day he is passed into the "Keserve," he getting the 
maximum of benefit without the waste of time, labor and expense. 

In 1842 the value of physical training for the military service was 
officially recognized in the German army, and schools were established for 
the education of instructors in this subject. The training in that army is 
at present comprehensive in scope, but particular importance is attached to 
practical and applied gymnastics, the men being continually exercised in 
them throughout their service. As illustrating the estimation in which 
gymnastic training is held in Germany it was said in a circular published 
in 1871: "It is acknowledged everywhere by soldiers and civilians that 
the astonishing accomplishments of our armies in the late war, especially 
their thorough discipline, exhibited in the most cheerful and self-sacrificing 
manner, their skill in overcoming natural and artificial obstacles in a hostile 
country, their courage and calmness in battle, the resolution with which 
they bore pain and privation, must, in large measure, be attributed to the 
gymnastic training of the rank and file." 

France has equalled Germany, and, if elaboration of exercise, number 
of apparatus and multiplication of detail is a criterion, she is even more 
advanced in physical training. In France attempts were made in 1847 to 
establish physical training in the army, but no good results were arrived 
at owing to imperfect organization. In 1869 the Government issued a 
decree making gymnastics compulsory at all schools, but the operation of 
this law was nullified by the war of 1870. At the termination of the war, 
however, France awoke to the necessity of cultivating a strong race of men 
and a large number of athletic societies were established. In 1878 the 
Government made physical training compulsory in all schools, and since 
that time immense improvement has been made in the physical de- 
velopment of the French. The instruction of the recruit begins with 
calisthenics and gymnastics, at first without the use of weapons. It in- 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BECRUlT. 67 

eludes the movements for suppling the arms, -flexions of the body and 
lower extremities, and also movements of jumping. These exercises are 
afterward repeated with arms, and later with arms and the full equipment. 
Following this training, a course in applied gymnastics is instituted, 
which include all exercises which bear on the accomplishment of feats of 
a peculiarly military nature. 

A comprehensive and carefully prepared system of training has been 
laid down in the British service; the character of the exercises being 
officially stated to be " so arranged that while the most advanced course is 
sufficient to test the powers of the strongest the preliminary course can be 
performed without injury to the weakest frame." According to Woodhull, 
gymnastic drill is required one and one-half hours daily in simple move- 
ments, the older soldiers having a more extensive course. This is augmented 
for the foot service by a one-hour running drill daily, the training beginning 
at the distance of three hundred yards, and ending with one thousand 
yards; mounted soldiers being given extra work in fencing and single 
stick. As in the various continental armies, swimming is taught at all 
stations where the facilities exist. Some of the gymnastic exercises are 
accompanied by music. Special schools have been established for the 
gymnastic instruction of officers and non-commissioned officers; and ex- 
cellent gymnasia, with simple though adequate appliances, are provided 
for all posts. It is officially prescribed that the exercises be not carried to 
the point of fatigue, and that they be varied sufficiently to avoid lack of 
interest. 

In Austria the highest importance is attached to the physical education 
of both soldiers and civilians, it being compulsory in schools for both 
classes; but as late as 1848 the educational spirit dominant in the country 
was absolutely hostile to it, and it was not until the year following their 
humiliating defeat by the Germans that a compulsory system of physical 
training was put in force in all educational institutions as well as the 
military service since which time it has rapidly and steadily grown to 
great importance. 

In Russia a system of physical training was not officially established 
until after the Crimean War, when on the termination of that campaign, 
so disastrous to Russia, it was established in every military school and 
corps, and has been increased and improved ever since. All recruits are 
under instruction for four months, and in time of war for two months. 
The system is progressive and commences with the simplest exercises, 
advancing by degrees to applied gymnastics, to which great importance is 
attached. 

In Italy, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Switzerland systems all more 
or less similar obtain, and physical culture is looked upon as necessary as, 
and also as being an aid to, the mental and military education of the in- 
dividual. 

Physical Training in the United States Service. The American 
soldieP cannot be regarded as an athlete or even well-trained physically. 
In time of peace the ordinary garrisons have been so small, and the work 
required of them so various, that there has been little lack of physical 
exercise in the sense of mere muscular exertion ; but there has been largely 
omitted from the military life that intelligent and comprehensive physical 



- 

58 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

instruction which is essential to the equable and physiological development 
of the body. As expressed by Pilcher : " While the medical department 
has devoted ample attention to the prevention of disease by the removal of 
threatening conditions it has almost entirely neglected prophylaxis by 
increasing the resistive power of the soldier himself. It is also true that 
the line has been equally unmindful of so potential an agency in securing 
efficiency in the soldier ; devoting centuries to the development of weapons 
of war, entirely regardless of the men who were to handle them. Having 
had a single object in view, the training of the soldier has been confined to 
the single direction of military exercise. This, having no break or variety 
of motion, becomes tiresome, is done in a perfunctory manner and failing 
in its hygienic function, leaves him overtrained in certain anatomical 
regions, expert only in specific muscular actions and generally but little 
better off physically than when he entered the service." It should be con- 
sidered that if physical training has been found necessary for soldiers of 
European armies, all of them msn who have been compelled to undergo an 
extended preparatory training while at school, it must be much more 
necessary for our men, recruited as they are from a population that has no 
such advantages. 

Physical training should not be merely tolerated as has been too largely 
the case in our service but should be officially prescribed rather than 
encouraged, and proper places and appliances provided for its execution. 
It should be carried out under orders from the War Department, since if 
physical training be left to the discretion of an indifferent commanding 
officer the exercises are apt to become both tedious and farcical In char- 
acter and scope they should be regulated as carefully as drill and tactics ; 
for if there be no definite requirements, no specific programme, no sufficient 
incentive to make of physical education the same serious business as is 
the case with target practice or other purely military functions, the 
results must always be unsatisfactory. 

As expressed by General Miles : " The physical training can be made 
injurious to the enlisted man or of great benefit, depending much upon the 
care and attention of the company officers and the interest taken by the 
individual" and to this might be added the necessity of intelligent 
medical supervision. Many zealous officers, largely unlearned in anatomy, 
physiology and hygiene, cannot appreciate the application of their govern- 
ing laws to the proper growth of the normal man ; and such, especially if 
lacking in experience, may illy direct or overtax the powers of the in- 
dividual. At present, also, the instructors not always themselves trained 
athletes are frequently changed during the physical education of a recruit, 
and the advantages of a systematic course of training are thus lost. Squads, 
too, are composed of the ignorant, the partially and the wholly-instructed 
a condition which cannot fail to be detrimenta 1 to the welfare of each 
individual and of the whole. 

The authorized exercises should be rational and simple. The present 
tendency is rather to induce excellence in feats of agility and athletic' sports 
than to develop the muscular system regularly by less interesting gymnastic 
training; but spectacular work should be discouraged, and the efforts 
limited to an honest endeavor to improve health, strength, endurance and 
muscular harmony. 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 69 

The War Department authorities have for some time permitted the 
expenditure of post and company funds for fixtures and appliances for 
athletic sports; and, in 1889, when the establishment of canteens was 
authorized, official announcement was made that one of their objects was 
to afford the troops "the requisite facilities for gymnastic exercises 
and other proper games." This plan, however, will always yield un- 
satisfactory results, and such an important factor in the military education 
should not be made dependent for its support upon meagre and infrequent 
allotments from unreliable sources. At each military station a suitable 
gymnasium should be provided and adequately equipped by the Quarter- 
master's Department the apparatus being not necessarily either elaborate 
or costly. If possible, the gymnasium should be so planned or located 
as to render the shower baths available for use after exercising. At 
posts where much of the physical training must be done under cover the 
issue of proper gymnasium shoes to troops should be authorized. A 
cinder track, for use in connection with athletic sports, is desirable 
although not absolutely essential. 

Schools of Instruction. Special schools for the training of instruc- 
* tors in gymnastics and physical exercise are maintained in all the more 
important foreign military services. In the German army particularly, 
great value is attached to physical training. All officers are required to be 
proficient teachers of certain designated exercises ; while one officer and 
several non-commissioned officers are yearly detached from each regiment 
and sent to large training-schools for an extended course of instruction. 
The central establishment is in Berlin, a section being set apart for the 
instruction of officers. In the British service special classes have been 
instituted at Aldershot and the Curragh for the training of non-commis- 
sioned officers as instructors in gymnastics. The French training-school at 
Joinville-sur-Pont graduates yearly from six hundred to eight hundred in- 
structors for the army. These graduates are non-commissioned officers 
drawn from the several branches of the service. They are given a course of 
six months' training calculated to produce general physical development, 
and are also exercised in applied gymnastics, in practice-marching and in 
the construction of fortifications and entrenchments. 

For the greater efficiency of our own army it is desirable that schools 
of the above character be established at suitable points, preferably as ad- 
juncts to the present service schools at Fort Leavenworth and Fort Monroe. 
In addition to the student officers already detailed in attendance on the 
general course of instruction, of which the work in physical training should 
be a part, each regiment should be required to send yearly two non- 
commissioned officers to this school, thus providing a sufficient number 
of officers and non-commissioned officers capable of competently un- 
dertaking the physical training of the men. 

II. 
CONSIDERATION OF SPECIAL EXERCISES. 

Attention. The position of attention is the basis of all martial bear- 
ing, showing its effects most conspicuously when the man is in motion. 
While not in general looked upon in the light of an exercise its mainten- 



60 THEOKY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ance nevertheless implies constant and symmetrical muscular action, 
which, when protracted, becomes one of the most severe tests of endur- 
ance which can be required of the soldier. When troops remain steadfast 
for a considerable time, as during a review, and particularly when equipped 
in heavy marching order, the constrained position and immobility may 
combine with the weight of the equipment to produce faintness and 
syncope. 

Manual of Arms. The manual of arms, while bringing into action 
the muscles of the arms and chest, is, when considered as a means of ex- 
ercise, both inadequate in character and injurious in effect. The move- 
ments are not sufficiently comprehensive, and their influence upon the 
body is such as to render it unsymmetrical, often inducing a marked 
drooping of the right shoulder and in some instances, in immature recruits, 
manifesting a tendency toward the production of lateral curvature of the 
spine. To combat this unequal development a special course of training 
becomes necessary, and this should be carried on concurrently with the 
drill of the recruit. 

The manual of arms does little or nothing to strengthen the soldier, but 
as regards certain muscles rather the reverse. These movements, limited 
in number as they are, require comparatively little skill in their execution 
when once acquired, and are performed automatically to a greater or less 
degree. Experience has shown that the lowest class of men learn these 
movements and acquire a degree 'of precision comparing favorably with 
those more highly endowed, and with practically no beneficial physical 
results. In this connection it may be emphasized that sound health and 
generally increased strength are not obtained through use and development 
of special muscles in the performance of specific acts, but in the synchron- 
ous and harmonious development of all muscles of the body. 

The constraint and discipline accompanying the execution of the 
manual of arms become in a sense mechanical thus rendering it of more 
advantage as a mental and moral exercise than as a means of physical 
training. 

Setting-Up Exercises. While every movement of the manual of 
arms and every evolution in drill or marching has its effect upon the 
muscular system, it is an error to presume that these alone are sufficient 
for bringing about and maintaining thorough physical efficiency. Not 
only by themselves are they inadequate for the maintenance of harmonious 
development, but, as already noted, they markedly tend to the origination 
and accentuation of bodily asymmetry. To remedy their serious deficien- 
cies and defects, and to correct the vicious attitudes and unequal muscular 
growth imposed by various phases of military duty, the setting-up drill, so 
far as it goes, is most efficient. For the proper development of all portions 
of the muscular system, however, it is not sufficiently comprehensive* in 
its scope, and hence might be advantageously amplified by the addition 
of certain of the simple movements and exercises detailed in the previous 
section. 

From a more spiritual aspect setting-up exercise does away with much 
of the heaviness and gaucherie noted in new recruits. Straightening up 
their bodies to a position of grace and manly erectness, it also insensibly 
communicates a similar uplifting tendency to the mind awakening the 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 61 

intellect, sharpening the wit, and keeping consciousness on the alert by 
its innumerable demands on the mind for obedience to new orders. Finally, 
it trains the body to work in harmony and conjointly with the mind an 
operation frequently of burdensome performance by recruits. 

Infantry tactics state that " in order to retain a proper set-up and to 
keep the muscles supple, all soldiers in garrison should be frequently 
practised in the following exercises. The arm, hand, trunk, leg, and foot 
exercises should be alternated, the drill interrupted by frequent rests and 
varied by instruction in the facings, marchings, etc. While exercising 
one part of the body care should be taken that the other parts remain 
quiet, as far as the conformation of the body will allow." 

FIRST EXERCISE. (1) Arm, (2) exercise, (3) head, (4) up, (5) down, 
(6) raise. At the command exercise, raise the arms laterally until hori- 
zontal, palms upward. Head : Raise the arms in a circular direction over 
the head, tips of fingers touching top of cap over the forehead, backs of 
fingers in contact their full length, thumbs pointing to the rear, elbows 
pressed back. Up : Extend the arms upward their full length, palms 
touching. Down : Force them obliquely back and gradually let them fall 
by the sides. liaise : 'Raise the arms laterally as prescribed for the second 
command. 

SECOND EXERCISE. (1) Arm, (2) exercise, (3) front, (4) rear. At the 
command exercise, raise the arms laterally as in the first exercise. Front : 
Swing the arms extended horizontally to the front, palms touching, heels 
on the ground. Rear : Swing the arms extended, well to the rear, in- 
clining them slightly downward, raising the body upon the toes. 

THIRD EXERCISE. (1) Arm, (2) exercise, (3) circle. At the command 
exercise, raise the arms laterally, as in the first exercise. Circle : Slowly 
describe a small circle with each arm, upward and backward, from front 
to rear ; the arms not passing in front of the line of the breast. 

FOURTH EXERCISE. (1) Arm, (2) exercise, (3) shoulder, (4) front, (5) 
rear. At the command exercise, raise the arms laterally as in the first 
exercise. Shoulder : Pkce the tips of the fingers lightly on the top of the 
shoulders, keeping upper arm horizontal. Front : Force the elbows to the 
front. Rear : Force the elbows back as far as possible. 

FIFTH EXERCISE. (1) Hand, (2) exercise, (3) close, (4) open. At the 
command exercise, raise the arms laterally as in the first exercise. Close : 
Close the hands with force. Open : Open the hands quickly, spreading 
the fingers and thumbs apart as much as possible. 

SIXTH EXERCISE. (1) Forearms vertical, (2) raise, (3) up, (4) down. 
At the command raise, raise the forearms until nearly vertical, fingers 
extended and joined, palms toward each other. Up : Thrust forward with 
force, extending the arms to their full length. Down : Force the arms 
obliquely back and gradually let them fall by the sides. 

SEVENTH EXERCISE. (1) Forearms horizontal, (2) raise, (3) front, (4) 
rear. At the command raise, raise the forearms to the front until hori- 
zontal, elbows forced back, hands tightly closed, backs down. Front : 
Thrust the arms forcibly to the front, turning the backs of the hands up, 
arms horizontal. Rear : Bring arms back quickly to the first position, 
forcing elbows and shoulders to the rear. 

EIGHTH EXERCISE. (1) Trunk, (2) exercise, (3) down, (4) back. At the 



62 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

command exercise, raise the hands and place them on the hips, fingers to 
the rear, thumbs to the front, elbows pressed back. Down : Bend the 
trunk forward at the hips as far as possible. Hack : Raise and bend the 
trunk to the rear as far as possible. Execute both motions slowly, without 
bending the knees. 

NINTH EXERCISE. (1) Trunk, (2) exercise, (3) right, (4) left. At the 
command exercise place the hands on the hips as in the preceding exer- 
cise. Right : Bend the trunk to the right without raising either heel. 
Left : Bend the trunk similarly to the left, executing both motions 
slowly. 

TENTH EXERCISE. (1) Trunk, (2) exercise, (3) circle right (or left). 
At the command exercise, place the hands on the hips as in the eighth 
exercise. Circle right : Bend the trunk to the right as in the ninth ex- 
ercise ; turn the trunk to the rear as in the eighth exercise, turn the trunk 
to the left and bend it to the left, as in the ninth exercise ; turn the trunk 
to the front and bend forward, as in the eighth exercise. 

ELEVENTH EXERCISE. (1) Arms vertical, palms to the front, (2) raise, 
(3) down, (4) up. At the command raise, raise the arms from the sides, 
extended to their full length, till the hands meet above the head, palms 
to the front, fingers pointed upward, thumbs locked, right thumb in front, 
shoulders pressed back. Down : Bend over till the hands, if possible, 
touch the ground, keeping arms and knees straight. Up : Straighten the 
body and swing the arms, extended to the vertical position. 

TWELFTH EXERCISE. (1) Arms forward, palms down, (2) raise, (3) 
down, (4) up. At the command raise, raise the arms to the front, extended 
their full length, till the hands are in front and at the height of the 
shoulders, palms down, fingers extended and joined, thumbs under fore- 
fingers. Down : Bend the trunk forward at the hips as far as possible and 
swing the arms backward, knees and arms straight. Up : Straighten the 
trunk and swing the arms to the upward position. 

THIRTEENTH EXERCISE. (1) Leg, (2) exercise, (3) half lend, (4) down, 
(5) up. At the command exercise, place the hands on the hips, as in the 
eighth exercise. Down : Lower the body, separating the knees and bend- 
ing them as much as possible, heels on the ground, head and trunk erect. 
Up : Raise the body, straightening and closing the knees. 

FOURTEENTH EXERCISE. (1) Leg, (2) exercise, (3) full bend, (4) down, 
(5) up. At the command exercise, place the hands on the hips as in the 
eighth exercise. Down : Lower the body, separating the knees and bend- 
ing them as much as possible, head and trunk erect, heels raised, weight 
of body resting on the balls of the feet. Up : Raise the body, straighten- 
ing and closing the knees, and lower the heels to the ground. 

FIFTEENTH EXERCISE. (1) Leg, (2) exercise, (3) left (or. right), (4) for- 
ward, (5) rear, or ground. At the command exercise, place the hands on 
the hips as in the eighth exercise. Forward : Move the left foot tt> the 
front, knee straight, so as to advance the foot about fifteen inches, toe 
turned out, sole nearly horizontal, body balanced on right foot. Rear: 
Move the leg to the rear, knee straight, toe on a line with the right 
heel, sole nearly horizontal. When the recruit has learned to balance 
himself the command forward is followed by ground. Throw the weight 
of the body forward by rising on the ball of the right foot, advance and 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 63 

plant the left, left heel thirty inches from the right, and advance the right 
leg quickly to the position of forward. 

SIXTEENTH EXERCISE. (1) Leg, (2) exercise, (3) up. At the command 
exercise, place the hands on the hips as in the eighth exercise. Vp : 
Raise the left leg to the front, bending and elevating the knee as much as 
possible, leg from knee to instep vertical, toe depressed. Up : Replace the 
left foot and raise the right leg as prescribed for the left. 

SEVENTEENTH EXERCISE. (1) Foot, (2) exercise, (3) up, (4) down. 
At the command exercise, place .the hands on the hips as in the eighth 
exercise. Up : Raise the body upon the toes, knees straight, heels together. 
Down : Lower the heels slowly to the ground. 

These exercises, though simple, are fatiguing; and the various groups 
of muscles are best brought into action for brief periods only. The Ex- 
ercises in general, and particularly any one movement, should never be 
carried to excess, since under such circumstances, especially when the heart 
is irritable, faintness is readily induced in untrained recruits. Particu- 
larly is this true of the third exercise. 

Fencing. This exercise is of particular value in producing chest de- 
velopment. It brings into play all the muscles of the body and ensures 
agility and soundness of wind as well as decision of character and rapid 
co-ordination. It has the disadvantage, if used to excess, of inducing an 
exaggerated development of the side holding the foil, together with scoliosis, 
the ooncavity of the spine corresponding with the sword arm. On the 
same side the shoulder is dropped and the chest flattened. These faults, 
however, may be avoided by fencing with each arm alternately. To avoid 
injuries the mask should be so rounded that the foil can scarcely strike 
perpendicularly; while the mesh of the mask itself should be small, as 
also the button on the foil. Due care should l>e taken to protect the hand 
of the sword arm from injury but constant exercise in fencing tends to 
produce contraction of the fingers. Both the faults and advantages of 
fencing exist in less degree in sabre exercise. 

Bayonet Exercise. The primary object of bayonet drill is to render 
the soldier quick and proficient in handling his piece, but it also serves as 
a most valuable physical exercise, expertness depending largely on quick- 
ness and accuracy of motion. Eleven movements are laid down in tactics; 
but the number is not restricted, the addition or selection of other exercises 
being left to the discretion and ingenuity of instructors. This drill 
supples the soldier, gives firmness of footing, increases muscular strength 
and removes awkwardness. It has, however, the general fault of all purely 
military exercises in that it favors unilateral development. 

Target Practice. This is important as a form of exercise. It has 
the advantage of being carried on in the open air; and constitutes, with 
its varying positions and movements, a species of gymnastics requiring 
for its performance the ready co-operation of vision, muscles and nei\>--, 
checking each shot with the immediate result. It is not, however, with- 
out drawbacks. When smokeless powder is used, and the shooting is 
done against the wind, the fumes, from its combustion, inhaled by the 
marksman, often induce cerebral congestion and severe headache. At the 
longer ranges, particularly if the sun be high and heat waves induce refrac- 
tion, eye strain is frequently developed. Banister states that the latter 



64 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF^MILITARY HYGIENE. 

affection is diminished in frequency, and that better scores are made, if 
the body of the target be black and the bulls-eye and rings be buff. This 
obviates the reflection of light, and at the same time produces a greater 
contrast between the color of the target and the face of the landscape. 
He also recommends that the prone position be the only one allowed in 
recumbent ^firing and that the side and back positions be excluded, as 
causing congestion of the intra-ocular tissues by compression of the blood 
vessels of the neck. 

In small-arms practice the markers are exposed to the dangers of gun- 
shot if due precautions for their safety are not carefully observed, and 
the same applies also in less degree to the marksmen themselves. 

In artillery practice the atmospheric vibrations often result in injury to 
the auditory apparatus. During the recent Anglo-Boer war, Miiller found 
marked changes in the auditory apparatus in forty-four out of ninety-six 
soldiers examined before and after a battle, while many of the artillerymen 
were made partially deaf or suffered from buzzing in the ears. To avoid pos- 
sible rupture of the tympanum, hemorrhages from the eyes and ears, deafness 
and subjective noises, the artillerymen should stand well behind the piece 
and habitually open the mouth at the moment of firing to equalize the air 
pressure on both sides of the tympanum. The use of cotton wadding in 
the ears, to break the force of the atmospheric waves, is always advisable. 
Leques noted that injuries to the tympanum became much less frequent 
after breech-loading ordnance was adopted ; on the other hand the use of 
nitro and smokeless powders appears to favor them. 

Practice Marches. Marching is the most important of military 
exercises. It has been laid down as an axiom that the soldier who cannot 
shoot is useless and an incumbrance to his battalion, and incontestably the 
same might be said with an even greater degree of truth as regards the 
soldier who cannot march ; for whereas the former may conceivably find 
himself in a position where accuracy of aim is unnecessary, the man 
unable to keep up with his comrades is not only an incumbrance but be- 
comes in an enemy's country a positive source of danger. Not only should 
troops be able to march rapidly, but they should be able to cover a con- 
siderable distance in full campaign order. It is also a desideratum that 
they should do this without undue fatigue ; and that not only should they 
be able to take part in an engagement, but should, in the event of necessity, 
have sufficient residual energy to take part in a pursuit. Napoleon has 
been credited with the dictum that the secret of success in war lies in being 
able to march ten leagues, fight a battle, and march ten leagues afterward. 
If this was true of his day, it is even truer of our own. 

To enable the recruit to fulfill the above requirements properly it is 
evident that careful training is necessary. According to Austin, of the 
defectively trained British troops in the field during the annual manoeuvres 
of 1895, a large number were found unable to sustain the task assigned 
them; and of one division, in a single day, eight hundred and thirty-five 
found it necessary to fall out. Since that time British regulations ex- 
plicitly provide that practice marches are to be progressive, beginning witli 
nine and gradually increasing to sixteen miles. The training culminates 
annually with a six days' march during which the battalion is required to 
cover one hundred miles. In the practice marches of the French army the 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 66 

recruit commences at the distance of 16 kilometers, and this is gradually 
increased to 30 kilometers. Finally he is given four successive days of 
marching under the full equipment, the distances being 22, 24, 26, and 28 
kilometers. With the French recruit, after some training, roads are aban- 
doned and the command marched over open country. The course of train- 
ing in vogue in the German and Russian armies is similar to that of the 
French. In our own service no special regulations as to this training ex- 
ist ; in this respect, as in others, too. much being left to the discretion of 
the local commanding officer. Troops are expected to make a practice 
march of mild character and not too long duration, annually ; but there are 
no requirements as to the course of training which properly leads up to such 
marching. This method is obviously faulty, and it is certainly unfortu- 
nate that the question of the systematic training of the soldier in this most 
important part of the military curriculum has not received more careful at- 
tention at the hands of the authorities. 

It cannot be said that free and graceful carriage, one of the essentials of 
correct physical training, is brought about by exercise in marching. In 
this drill the man is taught to march upright and stiffly, and look 
straight to the front. .Every movement is constrained, and natural motion 
of the trunk or upper limbs is denied, thus stopping the action of muscles 
necessary for their development and this at a period in the career of the 
soldier when every effort should be used for such development. Without 
correcting exercise, the individual undoubtedly acquires an accuracy of 
step and correct alignment in marching, but existing physical defects are 
unremedied and some are exaggerated. The effect of marching, when well 
regulated, is, as might be expected, unquestionably beneficial to the gen- 
eral health of the soldier. He gains -in weight, the muscles become firmer 
and well developed, the face becomes ruddy and free from all signs of an- 
aemia. When marching is injurious the effect is found to be precisely the 
reverse : there are loss of weight, muscular flabbiness, anxmia, and a hag- 
gard, drawn appearance. The several phases of marching, apart from its uses 
as a means of instruction or exercise, are fully discussed in the next chapter. 

Running Drill. Short drills in running are desirable from a military 
standpoint as well as excellent as a gymnastic exercise. They should not, 
however, be given too frequently, should commence with very short dis- 
tances, and even after very long practice should never exceed ten or fifteen 
minutes' duration. Drills at the double will first be without arms or 
accoutrements. After some practice, the armament, canteen and haver- 
sack may be added, but running with the full field equipment should at no 
time be indulged in. Commencing slowly, the pace should be increased 
to the middle of the run and then gradually decreased. The men should 
run entirely on the ball of the foot, striking the ground lightly, since 
running on the flat foot is both fatiguing and awkward and on rough 
ground sprained ankles frequently result. Men showing any evidences of 
cardiac weakness should never be allowed to run. In this drill recruits 
should be encouraged to fall out at will, for a heart may very easily be 
irreparably overstrained, and an exercise intended to strengthen the man 
may ruin him for life. Even when permitted to fall out the overtaxed 
soldier will frequently endeavor to complete his task ; being spurred on by 
a desire to excel, to hide his weakness and to escape the banter of his 
5 



66 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

comrades. Hence the instructor should observe the men carefully, and 
be alive to the first symptoms of cardiac and respiratory embarrassment, as 
well as those of actual exhaustion. 

Instruction in double time is given the importance it deserves in 
various foreign armies. In the English service the regulations prescribe a 
running drill, in addition to the general physical training, for all infantry 
regiments; it being intended that each man should ultimately be able to 
run one thousand yards without being too disturbed to use the bayonet, if 
it should be necessary. In the French army, running drill is given with 
and without the full equipment, is limited to two periods weekly, and the 
distance traversed must not exceed 120 meters. The distances prescribed 
for training are 60, 80, 100 and 120 meters respectively. 

Equitation. This is the most important exercise of the mounted 
service. It brings into use certain previously undeveloped muscles of the 
leg and thigh, increases the appetite, promotes assimilation of food and 
mechanically aids the action of the intestines. Horse exercise is produc- 
tive of hemorrhoids and frequently induces hernia. It has been accused 
of causing varicocele, atrophy of the testicles and impotence, but these 
claims have scarcely been substantiated. Excoriations from riding are 
somewhat common in recruits but are of less importance than blistered 
feet in the case of the infantryman, and are also much less frequent. To 
prevent such abrasions the painful spots should be washed and greased, 
while the drawers should be clean, soft, and well fitting. Furuncles are 
quite common among mounted troops. They usually occur on the buttocks, 
through pressure and irritation by unclean and sweaty clothing. When 
the pustules break, the pus and contained micro-organisms are frequently 
rubbed into other parts of the skin, thus forming new points of infection. 

On account of the uncleanly duties which the mounted soldier is re- 
quired to perform frequently, he must watch with care his bodily cleanli- 
ness, and washing after returning from stables, together with frequent 
bathing of the person, should be the rule. 

Work in the riding-hall is much less healthy than when carried out in 
the open air. The atmosphere of the riding-hall is charged with a fine 
dust composed chiefly of microscopical splinters of wood, dried fecal matter, 
urine, and bacteria ; and this, when inhaled, is both irritant and dangerous. 

Since some maladies of the horso can be transmitted to man, all sick 
animals should be promptly isolated, and the equipments thoroughly dis- 
infected. Such men as have charge of sick horses should change their 
outer clothes and wash themselves well with soap and a disinfectant solu- 
tion after performing their duties and before returning to barracks. 

Natation. As a military accomplishment, and apart from its hygienic 
advantages, all soldiers should be taught swimming; since they are thus 
rendered independent in case of accident or when it becomes necessary to 
cross a deep water-course during action. In every station near a suitable 
body of water, exercises in natation should be instituted during the proper 
season. 

Swimming combines the tonic and cleansing effect of the cold bath 
with general muscular exercise, without the disadvantage of being accom- 
panied by heat and perspiration. It should not be required in water hav- 
ing a lower temperature than 65 to 70 F., nor should it immediately 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 67 

follow eating or severe exercise. Soldiers en route to the bathing-place 
should march slowly and not arrive sweaty ; although if men swim or 
exercise vigorously and not merely bathe and paddle in the water, there is 
no harm in going into the water while moderately perspiring. Colds are 
caught by standing undressed waiting to cool off, and no time should 
usually be lost in wetting the head and then entering the water. Under 
ordinary conditions, remaining in the water more than half an hour is in- 
advisable, and under any circumstances the exercise should be concluded 
on the slightest feeling of chilliness. Most persons unable to swim do not 
take sufficient exercise, especially if the water be cool, and such are prone 
to chill the body by sitting or standing on the bank, undressed, after having 
been in the water. The exercise should be supervised by an officer, assisted 
by the best swimmers of the command, and these should require the 
maintenance of constant activity and effort on the part of all. Since 
swimming is a source of danger, instruction in the art requires careful 
surveillance, while the bathing-place should be carefully explored and 
the limits of safety for non-swimmers sounded out. In anticipation of 
possible asphyxiation by submersion, certain individuals of the command 
should always be proficient in the methods employed for the restoration of 
the apparently drowned, including Sylvester's method of artificial respira- 
tion and Laborde's tongue traction. Bathing is somewhat liable to in- 
duce ear trouble, and individuals so affected should not be allowed to 
participate in this exercise. The men should be cautioned against swim- 
ming under water on account of danger to the hearing, and on coming out 
should be instructed to incline the head to enable the water to escape from 
the ears. Certain individuals will often present a severe erythema as a 
result of cold bathing, and such should be excused by the medical officer, 
who should also fix the time and duration of the bath. 

Gymnasium Exercise. Infantry tactics prescribe that where there 
is a regular system of gymnastic instruction it may replace the setting-up 
exercises for well-trained soldiers ; it being recognized that with the latter 
movements it is impossible to obtain such muscular development and 
control as follows the intelligent use of gymnastics. Exercise in the open 
air is always preferable to that indoors ; but the gymnasium is the only 
place where every muscle can be most readily exercised, and has the great 
advantage of being available when drill and other military duties have to 
be suspended on account of inclement weather. Although a well-equipped 
gymnasium is naturally .desirable, yet its main advantages for the develop- 
ment of the recruit may be obtained where a large building is available, 
and at the expense of but a trifling outlay for dumb-bells, Indian clubs, 
and carpenter work. If to the kinds of apparatus just named, the 
parallel bars, vaulting horse, rings, hanging rope, horizontal bar, spring- 
board, and chest weights be added, the outfitting of the military gymnasium 
becomes practically complete, and the further multiplication of apparatus 
may be regarded as an unnecessary refinement. A few simple, well-select- 
ed exercises with these appliances, thoroughly carried out, leave little to 
be desired. 

The men must be taught how to exercise and use the apparatus ; since 
if not started in the light way they are liable to stand around helpless, 
imagining that as they cannot turn handsprings or perform other showy 



68 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

feats there is nothing left for them to do. Energy and life should 
instilled into the drill, and much better results will be obtained if instruc- 
tion be given more by example than verbal direction. For this reason 
the delegation of the gymnastic drills to younger officers is highly desir- 
able. 

Work in the gymnasium should be used to supplement the setting-up 
exercises, and not to their exclusion. General development should be 
aimed at rather than the enlargement of any special group of muscles a 
proceeding which, for military purposes, is of little or no value. The 
lighter and simpler exercises should be the compulsory ones, but encourage- 
ment should be extended to those men who show special aptitude for more 
difficult gymnastics. A few skilled gymnasts and athletes serve an ex- 
cellent purpose in a military command, since they are of use not only as 
instructors but also raise the standard to which the average man endeavors 
to conform. It should never be lost sight of, however, that in the military 
service the mass must be trained not the individual athletes. 

As a general rule, light gymnastics develop the muscles more uniformly 
and increase the capacity of the lungs much better than do acrobatic ex- 
ercises. After a certain amount of lung power and endurance has been 
obtained, it is only following the heavier work that frequent rests will 
be required ; since the exercises may be so varied that one part of the body 
can be rested while another is being exercised. 

When properly conducted the gymnastic work cannot fail to be attrac- 
tive, and the men will look forward to this feature of their life as a pleasure 
rather than an arduous duty, and as a welcome break in the monotony of 
the tactical drills. 

Men with hernia and a few old soldiers who, by reason of age or in- 
firmity, have lost their agility, to whom the gymnastic exercise would be of 
no benefit, should be excused altogether from the drill. Such men as have 
largely lost their suppleness of joints but are still fit for active service 
should be required to fall out before each drill and, under the charge of 
an instructor, be given a few minutes of light and entertaining exercise. 

Wherever practicable there should be five drills weekly, each drill to 
be of at least thirty to forty-five minutes' duration. 

Applied Gymnastics. Following a general course of physical train- 
ing, the French and Germans and to some extent the English accustom 
their troops to the overcoming of such obstacles as may often be encoun- 
tered in actual warfare. These exercises, known as "applied gymnastics," 
are practised first in light garb and without encumbrance, the soldier being 
gradually worked up to executing the movements under arms and with the 
full field equipment. The practical character and comprehensiveness of 
these exercises is well shown in the following description of the conditions 
under which the work is reported as being now carried on in the German 
service : " The course was U-shape, one hundred and ninety -five paces long 
and eighteen feet broad ; the obstructions being arranged in the following 
order : 

" 1. A ditch, six feet wide, for the running jump. 

" 2. A mound of earth, three feet high and four feet wide, for the high 
jump. 

" 3. A ditch, twelve feet wide, for the broad jump. 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 69 

"4. A mound, six feet high and ten feet wide at the base, on the edge 
of a ditch twelve feet wide, for the ' deep leap.' 

"5. A board fence, five feet high, to be vaulted over. 

"6. An escalading stage, twelve feet high and six feet wide at the top, 
to be climbed by ladders, ropes, or poles, and jumped or dropped from. 

" 7. A ditch, ten feet deep and nine feet wide, bridged by a shaky beam 
and with an escarpment wall rising four feet above the hither edge of the 
ditch. 

" 8. A palisade, seven feet high, built of sharpened planks. 

" 9. A glacis. 

"A section of twelve men in three ranks of four each, with muskets, 
side arms, and knapsacks, habitually made the entire course, from end to 
end, in three to three and one-half minutes. Without weapons or knap- 
sacks, four men usually covered the course in sixty to seventy seconds ; and 
a few individuals were able to surmount the obstacles in forty-five seconds." 

Of the advantages occurring from such exercises Mutel says : " The 
soldier well trained in (applied) gymnastics knows how to jump consider- 
able heights, with or without his arms. He is able to cross streams or 
precipices with the trunk of a tree for a bridge and can pass over walls, 
ditches, or ravines, aided or not by such instruments as may be available, 
either with free hands or carrying a burden. He is accustomed to the 
escalade with or without the use of the ladder or knotted rope ; to climb to 
the top of trees and to descend readily ; to carry weights with address and 
security without bodily suffering or inconvenience, and to transport the 
wounded." 

In our service but little work of this character has been done in spite 
of its obviously great practical advantages. Through the efforts of Butts 
a few soldiers have lately been trained in the escalade and kindred exer- 
cises, but the work has unfortunately been looked upon as spectacular 
rather than as possessed of actual military value. Besides greatly conduc- 
ing to general efficiency and a sound bodily development, such a system 
of training would in a short time disclose the latent defects of physically 
imperfect individuals and result in their early elimination from the service 
to which they are certain to be but a useless expense and encumbrance. 
It is much to be hoped that a course of exercises of this character may be 
officially incorporated into the military curriculum. 

Guard Duty. Whether in camp, garrison, or on picket, and particu- 
larly when superadded to the fatigue of the march, on account of the 
responsibility and vigilance which it imposes and the loss of sleep which 
it entails, guard duty is the most exacting and wearing that befalls the 
soldier. Ordinarily, guards are relieved every twenty-four hours, during 
which period the soldier may remove neither his clothing nor accoutrements ; 
while he is on post and alert for two hours, with an interval of four hours' 
rest, four times during the tour. While under ordinary conditions this 
plan is not seriously objectionable, during periods of severe cold or great 
heat the sentinels should be changed more frequently or else the system 
of running-guards instituted. In the latter case the whole period is so 
divided that any particular soldier goes on but once in his tour or once 
during the night, and is able to rest during the remainder of the time. 
The guard must be larger than usual in order not to keep one man on post 



70 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

too long a time, but the compensation lies in the uninterrupted rest before 
and afterward. As sufficient sleep is indispensable, so its loss is followed 
by a degree of lassitude and discomfort amounting in many to actual 
suffering, especially in the case of recruits; and there is no doubt but 
that deprivation of accustomed rest is a potent factor in the production of 
a lowered resistance through which invasion by disease is favored. 

While young soldiers must necessarily take their share of guard duty, 
their tours should preferably not be in the first hours of the night, when 
the mature are wakeful and the young are disposed to sleep. Under this 
plan the older men will also receive their rest at a time when nature most 
prompts them to seek it. In war, night guard is very frequent, and rest 
must be completely subordinated to the necessity of guarding against 
surprise this usually occurring at a time when the fatigues of campaign 
are greatest. In addition to the inclemencies of the weather, sentinels are 
unduly exposed to infection by disease, particularly that of a malarial 
nature. If hard-tack and a . bowl of hot coffee be served out to the men 
just before going on post late at night and this can usually be arranged 
it is of decided advantage in preventing sickness. Guards in a dis- 
tinctly malarial region should be given five grains of quinine at retreat, 
and should be required to wear flannel next the skin. Due care should 
be taken that the clothing worn should be suited to the duty and weather. 
The custom prevailing in many European countries of having the sentries 
belonging to the regiments of the guards posted in full dress uniform is a 
useless sacrifice of the hygienic to the aesthetic. 

It is the nights on guard in all kinds of weather and with heavy re- 
sponsibility which break men down most rapidly. A tour of guard duty 
for a seasoned soldier should not occur oftener than once in five days, nor 
for a recruit oftener than once a week and the longer the interval the 
better for the health. Too frequent guard duty is a potent factor in 
increasing desertions. 

Other Exercises. Soldiers of all branches of the service, especially of 
the engineers and artillery, should often be exercised in the throwing up 
of entrenchments, instructed in the building of roads, construction of 
mines, and similar duties. This kind of work, done in the open air, is 
very salutary if it be not carried to the point of extreme fatigue. In 
campaign, however, the work of fortifying becomes both laborious and 
dangerous, and it involves great exposure to fatigue, associated with the 
action of heat or cold. The opening of the ground in a malarial country 
offers dangers which are to be palliated by the prophylactic use of quinine, 
choice of hours for the work and attention to the location of the camp 
during the night. 

Skating affords excellent exercise, but is usually considered rather in 
the light of a pastime. In Holland and to some extent in Russia, how- 
ever, the troops are taught to drill and manoeuvre on skates. 

Snow-shoeing is valuable, and is included in the military training 
in the armies of Norway, Sweden, Austria and Russia. 

Athletic Sports. These, through the spirit of competition which 
they arouse, are a powerful factor in stimulating interest in physical 
exercise and do much to render even the hardest work attractive. Many 
sports, however, call for an irregular physical development; especial 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RECRUIT. 71 

proficiency requiring that certain muscles be cultivated to the exclusion of 
others. This class of exercises should not be encouraged in the military 
service, and hence such exercises as the pole vault or throwing the shot 
and hammer are undesirable. The tug of war, so popular among soldiers, 
is liable to induce heart strain, and is possessed of no particular advantage 
in the military education. Long-distance running as in "hare and 
hounds " much praised by some, is not to be advised in the physical train- 
ing of the soldier. Williams found that of eleven trained athletes who par- 
ticipated in a cross country run all had lost weight, one as much as six 
pounds, and all were exhausted, cyanotic, and presented weak cardiac action. 
Boxing and wrestling are admirable, the latter being the best of all single 
exercises. Besides developing every muscle in the body the last two exer- 
cises impart confidence and self-reliance, and may often be of direct value 
in the exigencies of military service. 

Interest in baseball, football and other manly games should be stimu- 
lated in every manner ; and as many men as possible should be encouraged 
to participate in the training. Football, above all other sports, is the 
game of the soldier, since it develops strength, agility, coolness, fearlessness, 
and determination, all subordinated to a leading mind in perfect discipline. 
Beyer found that the total strength of seventeen naval cadets, averaging 
nineteen and one-half years of age, and having an average height of 1.765 
meters, was increased, in one month of practice at football, no less than 
17.15 per cent. or nearly by one-fifth. When properly played by ade- 
quately trained men, this game is largely free from the danger of severe ac- 
cidents. Strains often occur and bruises are common ; but the severe and 
sometimes fatal injuries which are recorded are received practically only 
by the untrained and by immature and undeveloped boys. A recent in- 
vestigation of football, as played at the three great universities of Yale, 
Harvard, and Princeton, showed that in ten years less than a dozen broken 
bones had been incurred at those institutions. This showing emphasizes 
the fact that careful preliminary training, consisting of running, dodging, 
tackling, and, above all, of learning how to fall on the ball and to be 
thrown so as to receive no injury, practically eliminates all valid objec- 
tions to this admirable exercise for the soldier. 

It may be remarked, in passing, that the athletic spirit now so much 
cultivated in colleges, athletic clubs, and similar organizations is of peculiar 
value in connection with the military strength of the nation, in that it 
does much to render available, in case of an emergency, a large number of 
young men trained in bodily exercise and readily receptive of military 
instruction. 

III. 
MENTAL AND MORAL EDUCATION. 

To the training of the body should be joined that of the mind, to in- 
culcate the spirit of discipline in the soldier. Raw or ill-disciplined troops 
are always sickly as a result of their own ignorance and indiscretion, and 
hence the moral training has an important bearing on hygienic results. 

The soldier should be of manly character, willing, brave, steadfast, 
zealous, enthusiastic, of good humor, and possessed of initiative. At all 



72 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

times there should be exacted complete subordination, outward manifesta- 
tion of respect to superiors, precision and correctness in exercises, and that 
temporary effacement of the personality which makes the man in the ranks 
a part of an intelligent machine to act at the voice of the commander. 
The latter requirement has always met with opposition in this country and 
to it has undoubtedly been due a large proportion of our military calamities. 
Individuality of thought and action is jealously guarded as the heritage of 
a republican form of government ; and this idea, when carried into the 
army, constitutes a serious military defect. In the history of the United 
States Sanitary Commission, published in 1866, Stille* wrote : "This strange 
infatuation pervaded all ranks of the people, and, as it seemed a foregone 
conclusion that discipline such as that which existed in other armies 
could not be enforced in ours, of course little effort was made to introduce 
it in the volunteers. The effect was soon apparent. The ignorance of the 
officers concerning their duties was manifested at the first test. The injury 
to the health of the troops and, therefore, to their morale and efficiency, 
mainly due to the ignorance, incapacity, and carelessness of the officers, is 
now known to have been absolutely disastrous." These remarks might 
have truthfully been written of our volunteer troops during the Spanish- 
American War, carried on a full generation later. 

Tonnochy believes that the mental education of the soldier should 
include the blunting of the instinct of self-preservation so far as it can be 
attained in the living being, and that the individual should be so trained 
that he is not afraid to be destroyed if only his destruction cost the enemy 
dear. It is obviously true that the soldier must be taught to accept with 
resignation the misfortunes of war, and to support with composure the 
fatigue and privations which are always the price of victories. He should 
possess a desire for service and glory, should take pride in his uniform 
and duties, and, over all, entertain a patriotic love for his country. This 
idea of patriotic devotion and sacrifice serves as a powerful incentive to 
the soldier ; and moral force, according to Bugeaud, is equal from a military 
standpoint to the physical force, through the constant stimulus to activity 
which it engenders. 

Religious feeling, apart from its moral aspect, is a potent factor in 
military efficiency, and has been a dominating factor in many military 
movements. The most difficult peoples to conquer are those fanatics who 
believe themselves the inspired agents of the Deity, and whose religious 
teachings lead them to court death in the effort to destroy the unbelieving 
enemy. 

Education is of value from the military standpoint purely as it enables 
the soldier better to perform his duty. Hygienically considered, education 
is important since it broadens the character of the soldier, raises the 
standard under which he desires to live, and induces a better appreciation 
of the inevitable and disastrous results which must follow the commission 
of sanitary faults. Libraries in regiments or military posts are of great 
value. While containing standard fiction as well as science, they should 
include historical works, particularly such as express patriotic sentiments 
and relate the deeds of great commanders. Books pertaining to the care 
of the health in the military service, and especially those which are de- 
voted to physical development, will prove interesting and desirable reading. 



THE DEVELOPMEHT OF THE RECRUIT. 78 

In conclusion, it has been well written by Woodhull: "Asa conse- 
quence of efficient military hygiene, which involves moral as well as 
physical training, the average recruit at the conclusion of his enlistment is 
a better man in mind and body, if his company has any discipline worthy 
of the name. He has learned obedience, responsibility, promptness, order, 
the value of co-operation and attention to his own duty as moral qualities ; 
and the importance of cleanliness, of regular habits and sufficient bodily 
exercise as physical ones. The slouchy, dirty, careless and perhaps in- 
subordinate rough becomes the erect, neat, and disciplined man-at-arms, 
distinctly charged with the preservation of the peace." 



CHAPTER III. 

THE MAECH IN CAMPAIGN. 

IN the disposition of the march certain hygienic as well as strategic 
elements must enter, the former being those of season, weather, physical 
character of country and the condition of troops. It is evident that if 
the character of the march be so imprudently designed, in its length or 
detail, as to fatigue and harass troops, a commander will succeed in break- 
ing down the strength and spirits of his soldiers; so that the more he 
marches and the nearer he approaches the enemy the less fit he will be for 
the encounter: In a hostile country it is always advisable to keep troops 
fresh and make only short marches, for fatigue and exhaustion are as 
inimical to courage and initiative of action as they are to physical endur- 
ance. As far as possible military restrictions of an unnecessary nature are 
to be avoided, since in marching at ease the ordinary journey is relieved 
of much of its harassing character and becomes a salutary and stimulant 
exercise. The men are more cheerful, more contented and capable of 
higher measure of endurance. The movements of the individual soldier 
should not be restrained by precise military rules, but should occur more 
easily in the better maintainance of equilibrium. 

Preparation. Prior to active operations in a foreign country it is 
desirable to thoroughly understand the climatic conditions which will be 
encountered. Such knowledge will not only assist in the outlining of the 
campaign, but will render it possible, should such action be necessary, to 
alter plans with advantage. If an enemy be drawn into an unhealthful 
situation and compelled to stand on the defensive or remain under observa- 
tion under such conditions, more ultimate benefit may be derived from the 
depletion of his ranks by disease, and the filling of his hospitals, than by 
a victory dearly purchased in a doubtful conflict. On the other hand, a 
knowledge of the medical topography of the theatre of war will perhaps 
prevent the drawing, by a seasoned enemy, of troops unaccustomed to the 
country, to insalubrious regions where both disease and the enemy must 
be combated. 

In preparing for an active campaign or long march, all cases of slight 
illness or disability should be carefully segregated and left behind, since 
such soldiers may be considered as practically certain to break down at an 
early date and become an encumbrance to a marching column. Especially 
does this apply to the detection and elimination of concealed or partially 
cured venereal disease, the symptoms of which are notoriously aggravated 
by such prolonged and arduous exertion or exposure as are inevitable in 
campaign. Such cases, after recovery, may be later forwarded as reen- 
forcements, and thus become a source of strength instead of weakness to 
the command. It is well to remember, in this connection, the spirit of 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN. 75 

military ambition which prevails among such forces as are raised by vol- 
untary enlistment, as is the case in the armies of the United States and 
Great Britain. Such soldiers, particularly in time of war, are eager to 
participate in active service. Inspired by the desire to accompany their 
respective commands on campaign, and buoyed up by nervous excitement 
and fictitious energy, men carried on sick report will often, wilfully or 
innocently, favorably misrepresent their physical condition to the medical 
officer in order to obtain consent for their return to full duty. Great care 
must always be observed that such men, in spite of their praiseworthy de- 
sires, are not permitted to engage in a march for the accomplishment of 
which their strength is inadequate. Under the best of circumstances, ac- 
cording to Wolseley, in a division of infantry marching one hundred miles, 
the probable loss may be estimated at two to three per cent. This percent- 
age may, of course, be increased by climate, weather, condition of roads 
and other factors. 

Troops should never be marched fasting, for such action increases 
fatigue, lessens resistance and breaks down the barriers against disease. 
While European armies will make a march on merely bread and coffee, 
our troops require a much more substantial meal. Experience has shown 
that laborers in tropical countries, accustomed to work until late in the 
forenoon with no refreshment except a cup of black coffee, are capable of 
accomplishing much more if provided with a hearty breakfast before begin- 
ning their task. 

The Step. The military marching step, as a means of locomotion, 
must be considered as far more fatiguing than ordinary walking, since the 
movements of the soldier are, to a certain degree, unnatural and constrained ; 
the ease of the individual being somewhat sacrificed to precision of action. 
Hence the value of scientific computations as to the work performed by 
ordinary pedestrians is much diminished in the case of the soldier on 
service. 

Until within the past generation it was considered that military 
methods and customs must necessarily be artificial, and nothing was too 
constrained or even grotesque if it appeared to contribute to the precise 
manners which were supposed to characterize the military man. Hence it 
is not surprising to find that until only comparatively recently the left arm 
was held firmly against the side in marching, much to the interference with 
the equilibrium of the soldier ; and that, on account of its striking effect on 
parade, a peculiarly exaggerated high step, in which the thigh was elevated 
to almost a right angle with the body, was for a long time cultivated in 
certain European troops and only abandoned through the physical im- 
possibility of travelling any but the shortest distances in such a manner. 

Under present methods of marching the shoulders must be kept straight 
and the neck and body held erect. The knees are only slightly flexed, and 
the feet are thrown out well in advance of the body, but the free arm is 
allowed to swing naturally to better maintain the balance. Such a manner 
of progression is not that voluntarily employed by the individual, and 
hence, on long marches or campaigns or whenever energy is to be con- 
served, the use of the route step is always advisable. In ordinary walk- 
ing, the heel touches the ground first; the greatest weight being borne by 
the flat of the foot, and the toe leaving the ground last. Hence the prac- 



76 



tice in the German army, as well as our own, of training the marching 
soldier to place the foot almost flat upon the ground, increases the shock of 
impact and is more fatiguing to the individual, especially on a rough 








FIG. 4. Military or Straight-leg Marching. (After Bradford.) 

terrain. When the leg is at its greatest length, and is lifted from the 
ground, it is brought forward to a position under, or slightly in front of, 
the body, by the force of gravity and without muscular exertion; the 
action of gravity being also exerted to a certain degree outward. From 
this point the leg is advanced through the distance required for the next 
step by the action of the vasti muscles and the straightening of the limb. 
The foot acts like a lever of the second order, as shown in the accompany- 
ing diagram (Fig. 5), the fulcrum being at A, the resistance represented 
by the weight of the body at R, and the power at P, where the muscles 
are inserted into the calcaneum. 

In the ordinary military marching step, the toes should be directed 
well forward so that the thrust backward in the foot, and especially on the 
great toe, should be in the direction of 
its length rather than to a certain ex- 
tent across it; since the muscular 
action of the great toe is one of the 
most potent agents in the propulsion 
of the body forward. The foot is 
anatomically so constructed as to sup- 
port the body weight from the heel, 
the ball, and the outer portion of the 
sole ; the inner portion of the plantar 
surface being concave and not normally 
coming in contact with the surface over 
which the individual moves. The 

more the eversion of the foot, the less the body is supported by the outer 
surface of the sole and the greater the tendency to break down the plantar 
arch through the increased weight which must be borne upon its extremi- 
ties, the heel and ball of the foot. Marked eversion of the foot, such as 




FIG. 5. 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN. 77 

was formerly carefully inculcated in many European armies, could only 
result in placing the marching soldier at an anatomical disadvantage 
which increased his labor, fatigue and discomfort, and directly tended to 
permanently impair his efficiency by the production of flat feet. On the 
other hand, inclination of the foot outward to a slight extent favors the 
muscular action of the smaller toes and better preserves the equilibrium of 
the body by affording a broader basis of support over which the body [\nmrn 
in its advance to the front. A moderate inclination outward, of about ten 
or twelve degrees, probably best answers all requirements. The foot should 
be raised from the ground only so far as is necessary to clear obstacles. 

The marching step recently strongly advocated by de Raoul, of the 
French army, was previously unknown to civilized nations, but is com- 
monly employed in the Orient ; especially among the couriers and footmen 
of Japan, Ceylon, and India, who are able to cover their seventy-five miles 
daily for months at a time without great physical effort or serious effects. 
In this step, known in France as the "pas de flexion," the hips, knees, and 
ankle joints are slightly bent, the body is inclined forward and the feet 
are placed on the ground with little emphasis. According to de Raoul 
this method is far less fatiguing than the ordinary marching step, since in 
the latter the body rises and falls to an excessive degree and so unneces- 
sarily increases one of the principal ways in which muscular force is lost. 
It has been photographically demonstrated, also, that the vertical elevation 
of the body is more than two inches in the ordinary step, and less than 
one inch in the "pas de flexion." Such a difference at first sight appears 
to be trivial, but it has been shown by Marey that in marching a mile 
with the flexion step the energy saved in the lessening of the vertical 
oscillations of the body was sufficient to elevate the individual through 
the vertical distance of one hundred and fifty feet an economy of energy 
somewhat surprising and well worth consideration. In the Raoul method 
the body above the hips is inclined forward to such a degree that the 
centre of gravity is constantly on the point of being lost, and the only way 
to prevent falling forward is to keep in motion ; when, as the centre of 
gravity moves forward, it drags the weight of the body with it without 
muscular action. To keep pace with this movement with the least effort, 
the foot should be only slightly raised and should be brought into contact 
with the ground glancing rather than flat, thus lessening the shock of im- 
pact. The pressure on the ground is also said to be lessened. To train 
in this method, short, quick steps, one hundred and sixty to the minute, 
are at first required; their length being gradually increased. The step is 
noiseless, and the toes are directed toward the front. The distance trav- 
ersed, as practised in the French army, begins at three thousand yards and 
increases up to twelve thousand yards. Lessons are preferably given but 
two or three times weekly, and it is said that a three months' course of 
training is necessary for proficiency in this step. 

According to Viry, experiments in France have repeatedly demonstrated 
that the fully equipped soldier, if trained in this step, can easily attain a 
rate of eight miles per hour. Of two officers and thirty-two men who 
were put under training at Nantes it was recently reported that "after 
three months' instruction, they marched, carrying their rifles, bayonets, 
one hundred rounds of ammunition per man, and food for one meal, along 



78 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 






a hilly road, a distance of twelve and one-half miles, in an hour and 
forty-six minutes, which is at the rate of rather over seven miles an hour. 
Not one man fell out by the way. After a rest of two hours, they re- 
turned in three hours and five minutes, including two halts of ten min- 
utes each, which gives an average speed of over four and one-half miles 
an hour. Two days afterward these same men, in heavy marching order, 
covered a distance of six and seven-eighths miles across fields, on hilly 
ground, in an hour and twenty minutes, which works out at about five and 
one-half miles an hour. At the end of their march they were at once 
told off to target practice, 
when their shooting proved 
superior to that of the best 
company of marksmen in the 
regiment; this was done to 
determine whether the exer- 
tions of their rapid march had 
injured their capabilities as 
riflemen." 

It is said that in this 
method a man's endurance de- 
pends entirely on the strength 
of his legs and not on his 
wind, since the lower extre- 
mities give out first. The 
shoes must be very loose, low 
and comfortable. Long dis- 
tance pedestrians and soldiers, 
when tired, unconsciously fall 
into an imitation of this step, 
and so bring into action mus- 
cles which have not previously 
been used in ordinary loco- 
motion. The ability to per- 
form rapid and long marches 
without the expenditure of an 
undue amount of energy is a 

matter which concerns not only the sanitarian, but the tactician. The 
science of war has been defined as "getting there first with the most men," 
and this definition was never so applicable as it is to-day. The only 
objection to this step is that it lacks that rigidity and precision which is 
supposed to mark the soldier ; but questions of sentiment cannot be per- 
mitted to outweigh those of practical utility. A thorough trial of flexion 
marching should be made in our service. 

The length of the natural step varies with the height of the individual, 
and, according to Cortial, the proper step of the soldier on the march 
should not exceed six-sevenths of the height of his limbs. Since the 
marching step is assumed to be based on the average height and is some- 
what in excess of the length of the natural step of the smaller men, it is 
always advisable to let troops take their own step on long marches, for ex- 
perience amply demonstrates that many men can more easily increase the 







FIG. 8. Flexion or Bent-knee Marching, 
ford.) 



(After Brad- 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN. 



79 



number of their steps than they can their length. Should weights be 
carried the steps must necessarily be shorter, since the length of the step 

depends on the height to which the body is raised above the ground a 

condition against which a heavy burden is constantly operating. 

In the army of the United States the quick or marching step is 30 
inches, measured from heel to heel, and the rate is 120 per minute. In 
double time the step is 36 inches and the cadence 180 per minute. The 
short step, quick time, measures 15 inches, and the short step, double 
time, measures 18 inches. 

The marching step of various foreign armies, reduced to inches, is as 
follows : 

In the German army the length is 31.2 inches, and the rate 112-114 
per minute. The foot is brought down flat and with considerable 
emphasis, a method unnecessarily fatiguing and wasteful of energy. The 
German double quick step has a length of 39.4 inches and a cadence of 
165-170 per minute. The step of the English army has a length of 30 
inches and a rate of 112 per minute. In the French army the length of 
the step is 29.5 inches. The cadence at the beginning of the march is 
120, and the same during the last half hour of the journey. After the 
march is well established the rate is accelerated to 125 or even 135 per 
minute. According to Laveran, the length of the marching step in the 
Austrian, Belgian, Swiss, Swedish and Italian armies is 29.5 inches. 
In the Russian army the cadence is 120 per minute, but the length of the 
step is only 28 inches. This is extremely short when compared with the 
marching step adopted by other countries, but appears to be easy and 
comfortable for troops. The Russian soldier, according to Tonnochy, 
throws his weight in both standing and marching more on the heel than 
the sole of the foot. 

From a large number of elaborate experiments Marey concluded that 
for a man of average height (which he set at 65| inches) the length of the 
natural step was 31.7 inches and the cadence 120 per minute. If the 
same man carried a burden of forty-five pounds the length of the step was 
reduced several tenths of an inch. In experiments on a man untrained in 
marching he obtained the following results : 



Number of steps 
per minute. 


Length of pace. 
In Inches. 


Number of steps 
per minute. 


Length of pace. 
In Inches. 


Number of steps 
per minute. 


Length of pace, 
In Inches. 


110 
120 


28.89 
81.72 


180 
140 


32.48 
82.79 


150 
160 


:;:; ;; 
:w -'> 



This shows that there is no value in increasing the cadence beyond 
150 per minute; since what is gained in number, at the cost of increase of 
fatigue, is lost in the diminution in the length of the step. The above 
results would seem to show clearly the artificial nature of the military step 
of 30 inches as adopted in our own and some foreign armies, particularly 
since our soldiers are of greater average height, and vindicates the action 
of the Germans in selecting a step of 31.2 inches for their march on 
campaign. 

Unless guided by the will, the two steps are of unequal length, the 



80 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

step with the right foot being somewhat longer than the left. With the 
eyes closed or in darkness it is impossible to proceed in a straight line for 
any distance, a deviation toward the left being noted. 

In double time the distance traversed per minute is about one hundred 
and seventy-five yards, which rate, if prolonged, would mean the cover- 
ing of six miles during the hour. As a matter of fact the double time can 
scarcely be considered as a marching step, since it should be and is but 
rarely employed, and then only for very brief periods. A running step, 
in spite of all previous training, is quickly exhausting to the soldier, and in- 
fantry can rarely be justifiably brought into action under such conditions. 

Work Done on the March. The march should be considered as 
labor performed in addition to the daily routine of camp or garrison and 
not at all as the only drain upon the energies of the soldier. Still, it is 
of value to know the amount of work done by the soldier on the march, 
and this knowledge has been supplied by recent investigation. According 




FlO. 7. Positions of the Extremities of the Soldier During " Double Time." Photographs taken at the rate 
of sixty per second. (After Marey.) 

to Rubner, the amount of work performed in ordinary walking, expressed in 
kilogram-meters, may be calculated according to the formula 0.071 X W N, 
where the number 0.071 = the height of the step, W = the body 
weight, and N = the number of steps taken. For the French soldier 
weighing 64 kgm. (141 lb.), Marey calculated that the expenditure of 
muscular energy required for each step, the cadence of the march being 
120 per minute, was 12 kilogram-meters (1 kilogram-meter being equal 
to 7.2 foot-pounds). In double time, with a cadence of 180 per minute, 
the work done with each step was equal to 15.8 kilogram-meters; 0.3 
kilogram-meters being due to the movement of the limbs, 8.0 in the vertical 
movement of the body and 7.5 in the horizontal translation of the latter. 
The expenditure of labor in passing over a flat surface varies with the rate 
of motion, and, according to Marey's experiments, ranged from 25 kilo- 
gram-meters per second of time to 74 kilogram-meters for the same period. 
According to Notter and Firth, Coustan and others, the average daily 
work of the ordinary laborer is from 350 to 400 foot-tons, or about one-sixth 
or seventh the force theoretically obtainable from the food taken by the in- 
dividual. Walking on a level surface at the rate of three miles per hour 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN. 81 

is equivalent to raising one-twentieth of the combined weight of the 
walker and his burden through the distance jjassed over. For a soldier 
weighing 160 Ib. and carrying a burden of 60 lb., a march of ten miles 
over flat country amounts to 259.30 foot-tons, or what would be a rather 
small daily expenditure of energy for the civilian laborer. On the other 
hand, a march of 20 miles with a weight of 60 lb. is alone a very hard 
day's work for the soldier, without taking into consideration the labor 
necessarily involved in making and breaking camp and the other laborious 
duties incident to the field, and such severe labor could not long be con- 
tinued without injurious effects. If the ground be not level or the weight 
badly adjusted the expenditure of energy becomes greater, as is also the 
case if it be done in a shorter time. Velocity is also an important factor 
in determining the strain on the heart and lungs. For a soldier weighing 
160 lb. to march a distance equaling 300 foot-tons in work done, would 
mean a journey of 16.3 miles at the rate of three miles ]>er hour. Theo- 
retically, as in practice, if the burden be advantageously arranged and the 
rate of march not too great, the soldier should be able to easily accomplish 
a per diem of 12 miles with an occasional rest; but a daily march of 20 
miles, with full equipment, would not be 'possible for any great length of 
time. As a matter of fact, however, if very rapid or very long marches 
are required, the troops are usually sent out in light marching order, with 
the equipment reduced to the minimum; or they may later bring the labor 
within their powers of endurance by discarding portions of their equipment 
en route. 

Position on the March. Since marching in the rear of the column 
is comparatively much more fatiguing and disagreeable, each minor organi- 
zation should, in its daily turn, lead within its next higher command the 
same rule holding good for regiments, brigades, and divisions ; but newly 
raised organizations, in marching, should preferably be placed at the head 
of the column, as they march better in this position, and in case of a 
skirmish behave better from the knowledge of having the sii]i|)ort of 
seasoned troops. 

It may be laid down as a general rule that infantry, on the march, 
should preserve a wide front and as open a formation as may be practicable, 
in order to avoid the deleterious effects of crowd-poisoning. In marching 
in dust, close order becomes particularly harassing to infantry, although 
the reverse is true in regard to cavalry. Infantry should never march 
with cavalry or artillery, and if a meeting becomes at times unavoidable 
it is well to move infantry off the road until other troops have passed. 

Time. Except in cold weather the early morning is far preferable for 
marching. The men are fresh, the air is cool, the heat of the sun is not 
burdensome and the men appear to be less fatigued by their exertion. 
But for crossing a malarious country the time selected should be the 
forenoon in the temperate climates and afternoon in the tropics, since the 
danger of malarial infection is much greater in the early morning before 
the heat of the sun becomes powerful. 

Rapidity. The rate of speed and individual ease with which troops 

march depends largely upon the size of the command. An ordinary day's 

march will be done in six hours by a regiment, while a division will need 

eight hours for the same distance. An army corps will require ten or 

ft 



82 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

more hours to complete its day's march this being largely due to the 
delays and accidents of the march, which are proportionately increased in 
the case of large bodies of men. On the march, barring halts, a brigade 
moves its own length in about fifteen minutes. 

If no obstacles are to be overcome or especially unfavorable conditions 
of roads or weather are encountered, the ordinary rate of advance of an 
infantry column is about two and one-half miles per hour, including the 
halts necessary to bring the command to its destination in an effective 
condition and without stragglers. A day's march of fifteen miles is usually 
accomplished in about six hours. In large commands the rate of march 
of leading regiments should be carefully controlled, erring if anything on 
the side of slowness. The mounted officer of infantry, setting the pace for 
his command, should realize the limited capacity of foot troops. If a 
mixed column be necessary, the rate of march of the infantry must control 
the speed of the whole. 

Marches should begin and end slowly. The French have an excellent 
custom of reducing the rate of march during the last half hour in order to 
avoid bringing the command into camp in too heated a condition. 

Length. As to the length of a march any definite rules are impossible, 
since marching is necessarily largely influenced by the conditions of 
weather, roads and military necessity. 

Small groups of individuals, lightly burdened, can march very rapidly ; 
and military marches appear to be but short to the trained and unencum- 
bered pedestrian in civil life, he not stopping to consider the fact that work 
done by one is represented by weight carried plus distance marched, while 
in the other the same expenditure of energy is applied wholly to the gain- 
ing of distance. Further, the soldier cannot govern his own actions and 
must be considered merely as an individual unit of the moving army. His 
position in the ranks is fixed and must be constantly maintained in order 
to avoid interference with the space and movements of others. As this 
applies .to the soldier so does it also to the company, regiment or brigade. 
On the march the soldier is warmly clad for such severe exercise, is unable 
to stop at the first promptings of fatigue and is compelled to accomplish a 
certain per diem of locomotion. The weak must keep up with the strong, 
the man of short stride with the one of long, and the very regularity of 
the step, when prolonged, tends to make it wearisome and exhausting. It 
must be remembered also, in computing the length of the march, that the 
soldier's duties do not end upon his arrival at the camping ground, and 
that he must prepare his lodgment, procure wood and water, perhaps go 
on guard, and perform a number of small tasks that are a considerable 
additional tax upon his energies. As expressed by Smart, the severity of 
the march must be measured not so much by the number of miles traversed 
as by the number of hours elapsing between the breaking of camp in one 
position and its establishment in another. It is a generally admitted 
principle that for a complete rest after a sustained effort, such as a long 
march, at least twelve hours in the twenty-four are necessary for both man 
and horse. Deducting from the remainder an interval of three or four 
hours for preparation for the march and for duties at the close, there will 
ordinarily remain for actual marching an interval of five to seven and one- 
half hours. 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN. 83 

A long hard march at the outset may defeat the object of the journey 
by breaking down a large number of men and rendering them unfit for 
further marching; and hence, at the beginning of an extended march, 
unless the necessity be urgent, the distance traversed should be short. 
This affords an opportunity to the men to become gradually accustomed to 
the new conditions and the carriage of the equipment. The day's inarch 
may subsequently be increased until at the end vt a week or ten days the 
maximum is readied ; but in general, when a great distance is to be 
traversed, the daily marches should always be short rather than long. 

In the United States a fair day's march for infantry, under usual 
conditions, is considered to be from fifteen to sixteen miles, or slightly 
higher than the average in European armies. On long marches or in 
campaign, the daily march of the English soldier is about twelve miles, 
occasionally as much as eighteen or twenty. In the march from Cabul 
to Candahar the expedition, comprising ten thousand men, eight thousand 
native followers and eleven thousand animals, averaged over sixteen miles 
daily for twenty-three days. The longest day's march was twenty -one 
miles. In the French army the average daily march in campaign is 
twelve and one-half to fifteen miles. General Lewal considered that a 
continued march, averaging twelve and one-half miles daily and carrying a 
equipment weighing forty-five pounds, was an excellent result in campaign. 
Spanish infantry, said to have no superiors as marchers, regard a march of 
fifteen miles, under usual conditions, as a fair day's work. In the German 
army the daily average is fourteen miles, with a halt every fourth day; 
but, according to Aitken, the Eighteenth (Prussian) Division, in 1870, 
marched two hundred and sixty miles in nine days in October, and fifty- 
four miles on December Ib'th and 17th, heavily equipped and over ld 
roads. According to Grodekoff, in 1896 a force of about three thousand 
Russians made a continuous march of three thousand miles in eastern 
Siberia, averaging about fourteen miles a day for a large part of the dis- 
tance. On the entire journey it was found necessary to leave behind only 
four officers and twenty-nine men, and on arrival the command was in 
good condition and excellent spirits. 

It appears to be a well-demonstrated fact that good infantry will, in 
continuous march or long campaign, wear out and out-march cavalry; but 
a greater average than fifteen miles daily is rarely achieved, unless by 
small bodies of men and for short periods. In the case of the soldier, 
other conditions being equal, weight carried and rate of march must be 
considered correlative. Beyond the mean established by long experience 
any attempt at increase in the one must be accompanied by a correspond- 
ing diminution of the other, or exhaustion quickly supervenes. 

Meteorological Conditions. No forethought can guard against 
marked changes in the weather, and continued marching in long periods 
of excessive wet, great cold or heat may frequently be more destructive 
to the efficiency of a command than the results of actual fighting, which 
at most is of short duration. As a general rule, troops should not be 
marched in rainy weather, since wet clothing is always to be considered 
a potent factor in reducing the vital resistance of the soldier and in predis- 
posing to the occurrence of disease. Still, while actually exercising but 
little injury appears to be done to a moving command, and bad effects are 



84 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

largely to be attributed to the surface chilling resulting from the frequent 
failure to change damp clothing on arrival at camp. In marching during 
wet weather the camping ground should be reached by noon, so that 
troops may be able to shelter themselves, collect fuel for fires, don the 
change of clothing carried in the equipment and dry their wet garments 
before nightfall proper attention doing much to modify the untoward 
effects of exposure. 

The length of the march is largely affected by meteorological conditions. 
As the barometric pressure diminishes so does the oxygenation of the 
blood, and hence also the vital forces of the organism. If such pressure 
be greatly reduced, as in the case of considerable elevation, the condition 
known as " mountain sickness " supervenes ; but as usually observed in 
soldiers, the effects of rarefaction of the atmosphere are manifested only by 
hurried and difficult breathing. Temperature exerts a powerful influence 
on the march. If it be elevated the body is enervated, the muscular 
system is relaxed and the loss of fluid, through copious perspiration, 
interferes with the systemic equilibrium. Low temperature, on the con- 
trary, has a strong tonic effect and stimulates to arduous exertion. Hu- 
midity, fog and rain render muscular movement and the evaporation of 
perspiration less free, increase the discomfort of the soldier and therefore 
by so much impair his efficiency and power. Snow and rain considerably 
diminish the length and rapidity of the march, especially if the snow-fall 
amounts to several inches or if the mud produced be deep or tenacious. 
The moisture absorbed by the clothing and equipment also adds much to 
the weight to be carried. In dry weather the dust raised by a marching 
column may become almost insupportable and do much to impair its 
energies. Head winds greatly impede marching, sometimes to the extent 
of diminishing the day's march by one-fourth. 

Terrain. The soldier is unable to select his own ground for marching, 
but must maintain his place in the ranks and his rate of speed irrespec- 
tive of obstacles. Unless the ground be frozen he marches in the dust or 
mud created by the regiments which have preceded him; the discomfort 
and restriction of respiration caused by one, and the increased fatigue re- 
sulting from the other, being strong factors in the exhaustion of his 
energies and the curtailing of his capabilities. If the road be rough the 
foot is insecurely placed ; if sandy, it sinks ; if muddy or icy, it slips ; if 
stony, it is liable to hurt or bruise and all result in the increase of fatigue 
of the marcher, especially since he is obliged continually to modify his 
movements according to the nature of the surface and to keep his attention 
fixed upon the ground in front of him. On the other hand, marches over 
a smooth, gently rolling country are easier for troops than those made on 
a level, sandy surface; since muscles used in locomotion are rested by 
variety of action as well as by absolute inaction. It is in conformation 
with this principle that the tired couriers of the Orient walk backward to 
rest themselves and avoid the loss of time on the way. Whenever possible 
the movement of troops should occur parallel to the road and the latter be 
reserved for the use of the wagon trains. This permits the wagons to arrive- 
promptly at the camping grounds, and prevents the occurrence of a long, 
dispiriting wait, often in rain, heat, or snow. The extra labor in marching 
over a pathless and possibly broken country is more than neutralized by 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN s.-, 

the comfort and satisfaction which the prompt pitching of camp In in 
tired soldiers. 

Equipment. Soldiers on the march still are, during campaign, loaded 
down like beasts of burden, in spite of the efforts constantly made in all 
countries to reduce the weight of the personal equipment. Seasoned 
troops, wise through experience, will, when in the field, reduce the weight 
of their equipment to the minimum. Newly-raised troops, on the con- 
trary, always overload themselves at the outset; failing to appreciate the 
disproportionate amount of fatigue which the carriage of a few extra 
pounds entails on its bearer in the course of a long march and considering 
as necessities many articles which they later come to regard as purely 
superfluous luxuries. Until this latter desirable condition is reached, 
however, frequent inspections are required to eliminate all unnecessary and 
unauthorized articles. Eaw troops, when tired and j>erhaps overburdened 
on the march, will often l>e inclined to discard necessary jxjrtions of the 
equipment which will be required for their future comfort and health, and 
due care must be taken to prevent any such action on their part. 

Forced Marches. Such marches are fortunately but rarely required. 
From their nature they are accomplished under conditions involving scanty 
food and insufficient sleep, which, combined with the unusual fatigue, ojr- 
ate to produce early elimination of the less physically vigorous or untrained 
individuals of the command. Since the object of the march is not so 
much to transport men a given distance as it is, while marching, to con- 
stantly preserve their efficiency and fighting condition, commanding 
officers should not willingly undertake forced marches, as the risk of break- 
ing down new troops is too great to be incurred without careful deliberation. 
On concluding a forced march even the best and most seasoned troops are 
exhausted, and before being fit for further extended effort require rest and 
recuperation. Hence a temporary loss of efficiency and a diminution of 
the effective strength must l>e calculated in advance as being the price 
which is to be paid for the position secured. 

Anything above eighteen or twenty miles is practically a forced march, 
unless the conditions of the weather, temperature and terrain are extremely 
favorable. In Mexico, a French column is said to have travelled thirty 
miles in five hours at night, rested one hour and then marched nine miles 
further. According to Thomas, the grenadiers of Oudinot, in 1 805 , pursued 
the corps of Werneck for three consecutive days, the daily marches being 
thirty, forty and fifty miles respectively. 

Three regiments of British infantry, in July, 1809, marched sixty-two 
miles in twenty-six consecutive hours, carrying arms, ammunition and 
packs in all, a weight of between fifty and sixty pounds. This inarch 
implied an expenditure of energy equal to about six hundred foot-tons. 
One of these same regiments, during the Indian mutiny, marched forty- 
two miles in twenty hours, and on the following morning marched ten 
miles and engaged the mutineers. But marches of such character may be 
said practically to exceed the powers of any large military force under 
normal conditions. 

In a forced march, after four hours, the column should be halted for 
an hour, during which time the men should, if water be at hand and tin- 
weather permit, wash the face, hands, neck and feet; but discrimination 



86 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

as to the duration of the halt must be employed, since the men stiffen up 
if prolonged rests are permitted. A light lunch should preferably be issued 
at such a halt. Following a forced march a rest of a day will usually be 
necessary. Hence such a special effort, besides impairing the efficiency 
of the force, actually gains nothing in distance in a long journey. 

Night Marches. Marches at night are rarely necessary. Except 
under the stress of some imperative military necessity, the loss of sleep and 
general discomfort occasioned by such marches may be considered to far 
outweigh the ordinary advantages to be gained thereby. Many soldiers 
are unable to sleep as well during the day-time as during the darkness of 
the night, and for these such marches practically destroy all rest, A 
single night march is not an economy of time, since troops are required to 
rest the day before as well as the day after the effort. Under an attempt 
to continue such marching, troops may be expected to break down and 
an increase in sickness is the invariable result. This was well shown 
in a recent instance in which, of two French brigades arriving at the same 
depot, it was stated that the one made prolonged marches partly by night, 
while the marches of the other were short and slow and always by day. 
The result, as furnished by the hospital records, was as follows : 

MARCHING BY LONG STAGES, PARTLY BY NIGHT. 

Eegiment. Days of sickness. 
2nd. 60. 

4th. 41. 

6th (1st Battalion). 43. 

MARCHING BY SHORT STAGES, ALWAYS BY DAY. 

Kegiment. Days of sickness. 

1st. 32. 

6th (2nd and 3rd Battalions). 14. 

12th. 19. 

3rd Chasseurs. 23. 

Thus those who made long marches, partly by night, lost twice as 
much time by sickness as those who made short marches always by day, 
a significant commentary on the hygiene of exercise. 

Unless the night be very clear or bright, some attempt at the illumina- 
tion of the route should be attempted by means of lanterns or torches. 
Night-marching in mountains or rough country is particularly dangerous 
and fatiguing, and is always difficult. Despite the utmost caution of the 
soldier he is constantly stumbling, through miscalculation of distance in 
the deceiving light, and injuring his feet through contact with stones and 
surface inequalities. Drowsy, out of sorts and tired, he has not the mental 
stimulus to exertion which the constantly changing scenery of the day 
march affords. 

Delays. To avoid fatiguing delays in starting, the careful regulation 
of the march is necessary and each organization must be required to arrive 
at the designated point at the proper time. Having once started on the 
journey, troops should always be required to continue the march steadily 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN. s? 

and without hesitation, even when minor obstacles, such as mud or pools 
of water, are encountered ; for delay in advance is transmitted along the 
column and, the obstacle having been overcome, troops marching in the 
rear must increase their pace to regain their lost distance, or leading regi- 
ments must move slowly or halt to allow the rear to close up. Irregular 
progress is always particularly vexatious to marching troops. Time lost in 
waits of indefinite length probablv cost more nervous strain and actual 
fatigue to troops than the same time spent in marching; since the un- 
certainty of the delay maintains the soldier in a condition of constant un- 
easiness, prevents the temporary removal of the equipment and destroys 
much of the benefit which might otherwise result from such a jteriod of 
rest. Hence whenever occasional halts can be foreseen, they should be 
announced in the beginning and the whole column notified. Even in the 
case of accidental stops it may frequently be feasible to determine their 
probable duration, and to make such use of the delay as will best conserve 
the strength and temper of the command. 

Rests. In the prevention of exhaustion on the march from too con- 
tinuous effort, the column should be halted at suitable intervals for periods 
of rest, and for this purpose frequent short halts during the march give 
more satisfactory results than by marching with fewer and longer delays en 
route. Their duration and frequency is thought by Pourvoirville and 
others to be determined more by the nature of the country traversed than 
by the length of the march, and to be directly influenced by the size of 
the command, small bodies of troops not requiring as frequent rests. Under 
ordinary circumstances, halts for infantry should occur every fifty minutes 
and last ten minutes; but in a mountainous country more frequent stops 
are necessary, and a breathing time of five minutes should be allowed every 
twenty-five minutes. For these halts the commanding officer should select 
situations not too hot, too wet nor too much exposed to the wind. Deep, 
sandy ravines or places where there is not free circulation of air are to l>e 
avoided. 

A halt at the end of the first two miles enables the men to attend to 
the calls of nature and to adjust their equipment more satisfactorily. 
While resting, men should divest themselves of their jacks and, if the 
ground be not too muddy, they should sit down. According to Woodhull, 
the French make use of a method of resting during short halts which saves 
time, prevents straggling, keeps the soldier off the ground and relieves 
his fatigue. In this method twenty or thirty men form a circle and each 
man sits on the knees of the man behind him. If perspiring freely, and 
exposed to a breeze, soldiers should move about sufficiently to avoid 
chilling. Overheated or exhausted troops should never lie on the damp 
ground. If a poncho or blanket is not available to protect against the 
ground dampness, the soldier should sit on a log or stone, or, failing in 
this, he should remain standing. It is well, if the march exceed a dozen 
miles, to halt for half an hour when half way or about noon for a light 
lunch; and for this purpose a shady, sheltered locality, close to an abund- 
ance of good water, should be chosen. In addition to those required for 
resting purposes, halts, in a large command, will now and then be necessary 
to enable the rear of the column to close up with the main body. If the 
command has been widely separated, the halt should be continued until 



88 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

the rear organizations have been properly rested and are in condition to 
proceed on the journey. 

Since it is well understood that tired troops cannot march successfully, 
it will scarcely be necessary to say that laborious field exercise of any 
kind should mot usually be followed by a march without sufficient delay 
to allow of recuperation. In pressing the advantage of a victory such 
action is usually possible under the mental stimulus which is given by 
success ; but that great risk exists of overtaxing the men under such con- 
ditions cannot be denied. 

At the end of a march the feet should always be washed and dry stock- 
ings put on, and the men should take care not to expose themselves to the 
danger of chilling. If very warm, and they have no duties requiring phy- 
sical exercise, extra clothing should be donned. Every eight or ten days, 
besides Sundays, an all-day halt will be required for rest and necessary 
repairs. 

Use of Fluids. In campaign in arid regions, under usual conditions, 
it is well to estimate the minimum daily allowance of water as not less 
than one gallon per man. This is merely the amount required for drink- 
ing and culinary purposes, and makes no provision for the maintenance of 
personal cleanliness. Much of this water may have to be carried in wagons. 

Too free drinking of water on the march in temperate climates is inad- 
visable. Recruits are prone to drink as often during the day as they 
approach usable water, and such suffer greatly when restriction is 
necessitated by the absence of water en route, not marching with the same 
energy as men who drink in moderation. Soldiers who drink heartily 
before the start and then habitually refrain from drinking until the noon- 
day lunch, or until camp be reached, soon learn to feel no discomfort from 
their failure to drink and such a custom may be of the greatest service to 
them in campaign. While arbitrary control over the use of the canteen 
is unwise and impracticable, it is well to explain to the men the advan- 
tages of comparative abstinence. During a halt near a cold spring, over- 
heated soldiers should be prevented from making too free use of the water 
to then: own injury. 

Canteens should habitually be carried filled. The future cannot always 
be foreseen, and even if not used on the march the contents may be needed 
if no water be found at the camp. While the supply should always be 
replenished at frequent intervals, especially in hot weather, great care must 
be taken to prevent the use of water from suspicious sources, and men 
should not be permitted to leave the ranks to fill canteens except by spe- 
cial authority. In foreign countries the civil authorities of towns, through 
which marching troops are to pass, are obliged to supply an abundance of 
fresh water of good quality for this purpose on the request of the com- 
manding officer of the column. 

At the halt or in camp a guard placed over the source of supply will 
prevent local pollution by men and animals. Dogs should not be allowed 
to range with a marching column when approaching water, since, if the 
weather be warm, they will invariably run ahead to cool themselves in 
the water. Stock should be watered, and men should wash their persons 
and clothing, at designated places below the point from which water for 
cooking and drinking purposes is drawn. 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN. 89 

For use on the march, canteens may advantageously be filled with 
weak, unsweetened coffee, which appears to quench thirst better than 
pure water. The employment of tea, from its tendency to attack the 
metal of the canteen, is undesirable. The use of alcoholic liquors on the 
march is extremely injurious and provocative of sunstroke. If ever 
employed they should be used only toward the end of forced marches, to 
relieve exhaustion. The patronage of any neighboring saloons by the 
men, during halts, should be prohibited. 

Tobacco chewing, and to a less degree smoking, is inadvisable on the 
march, since it increases thirst and causes an additional drain on the fluids 
of the body through the necessarily frequent expectoration. 

The sensation of thirst may be largely prevented by carrying some 
small hard object in the mouth, as a twig or pebble, to excite the flow of 
the salivary glands and so moisten the fauces. The slow sipping of water 
is said to favor its absorption. 

Straggling. Nothing so much harasses troops as straggling on the 
line of march. Should a soldier find it necessary to fall out between halts 
for any purpose, special authority from his company commander should be 
obtained and his prompt return to his place required under pain of punish- 
ment, his piece being carried by another until his return. During a halt 
scattering should not be permitted, and the command under all circum- 
stances should be kept well together and in hand. Straggling is an evil 
which directly impairs the military efficiency of a command, and, like all 
infractions of discipline, may be expected to exert an unfavorable effect 
upon the general health and morale. Its prevention dejends upon 
careful determination and elimination of the sick, the encouragement 
and perhaps the assistance of the tired and the application of suitable 
measures to the lazy and undisciplined. The careful transportation of 
the sick will, with good troops, induce extra effort on the part of the 
latter ; they believing that they will be well cared for should they become 
exhausted. 

Convalescents are to be spared as much as possible on the march. 
Their equipment should, if possible, l>e carried with the baggage. Ever}' 
precaution should be taken to prevent their becoming wet, since such 
exposure, combined with fatigue, will often return them to hospital. 
With due precautions they will le actually strengthened by not too 
arduous marching and will shortly be able to return to their full duties 
in the ranks. 

Mouth-Breathing. During the march, breathing through the mouth 
is to be avoided. This pi-events the passage of unwarmed air or particles 
of dust into the lungs, with resulting possible irritation, and also diminishes 
the sensation of thirst and tendency toward breathlessneafc 

Mental Occupation. To occupy the mind of the soldier on the march 
is an excellent way of preventing fatigue and weariness. Absolute 
silence is depressing to the men, and should not be required; but frequent 
talking is undesirable and is to be discouraged. At high altitudes or on 
dusty roads marching soldiers are instinctively silent. 

Singing en route affords a pleasing mental occupation and does much 
to lessen the tedium of the inarch. Nevertheless, in the presence of fog, 
dust, inclement weather, or during the occurrence of epidemic influenza 



90 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

or bronchial affections, general singing on the march would seem inadvis- 
able. The Russians have recognized this fact to the extent of selecting 
beforehand certain soldiers to do the singing for their respective organiza- 
tions during the journey. Military music is a diversion and mental stimu- 
lant and hence is a positive aid on the march. Its rhythm materially 
assists in imparting and maintaining the proper step and swing, this being 
especially true of full bands or the fife and drum. As marching music 
that of the trumpet is distinctly inferior. 

Accidents of the March. In the conduction of the march various 
conditions may operate to imperil the safety or impair the efficiency of the 
command. Notably in the first class may be mentioned the disastrous 
effects wnich may result from exposure to extreme heat or cold, which, 
since they depend more upon temperature and climate than upon the? 
method in which the military march is conducted, receive attention else- 
where. The second class naturally includes such injuries to the individual 
which, though theoretically preventable and intrinsically of but slight im- 
portance, exert a serious and unfavorable influence upon the effective 
strength and mobility of marching troops. 

Blisters and Excoriations. Blisters and excoriations of the feet, in 
themselves of no importance, often require rest for their recovery. For 
this reason they possess a considerable interest from a military point of 
view, especially as they may rapidly render a large number of men unfit 
for military service and so diminish in large proportion the effective force 
at the beginning of campaign. Tourraine estimated that after several 
days' marching about one-fourth of an infantry command would present 
excoriations of the feet ; while military statistics in general show that from 
twenty-five to thirty per cent, of troops in campaign, as a result of the 
first few days' marching, sustain more or less injury to the feet. In the 
Army of the Potomac whole brigades are said to have been tempo- 
rarily disabled from this cause ; and it has been estimated that in European 
armies an average loss of ten per cent, of the effective force, directly 
due to the hard marching of campaign, must be anticipated among- 
unseasoned troops on taking the field. In the early part of the Franco- 
Prussian war, in the Tenth Army Corps, the constant ineffective from 
injury to the feet, as a result of marching, ranged from eight to ten per 
cent. ; and it is said that at one time not less than thirty thousand Ger- 
man soldiers were, from this cause alone, unfit to perform field service. 
Such results are partly to be explained by the fact that socks or stockings, 
which are of great value in preventing chafing by the hard leather, are not 
issued to their, troops by most European nations, and the soldier must 
either wrap his feet in small pieces of cloth, as a makeshift, or do without 
adequate protection. However, under the best circumstances and with 
all precautions, constant marching must be expected early to render a con- 
siderable proportion of an infantry command unfit for duty. It thus^ be- 
comes evident that care with regard to the feet of the infantry soldier is well, 
recompensed by his increased efficiency. 

Blisters are naturally produced on those points which support the 
greatest pressure and friction, these being generally the heel and top of 
the metatarsal bones. The most painful and serious abrasions usually 
occur on the heel at the level of the insertion of the tendo Achillis. 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN. 91 

These cause great suffering to the soldier and usually render his continu- 
ance on the march impossible. Blisters on the soles of the feet at once 
disable. In the production of the blister there is an elevation of the 
epidermis comparable to that which follows a bum of the first degree. 
Should the epidermal covering be torn off, the skin becomes inflamed and 
the discomfort of the individual considerably increased. Evacuation of 
the blister is best done by traversing it with a thread and allowing the 
oozing of its contents. The raised cuticle may then be greased, pressed 
into place and, if at night, lightly bandaged. 

Ill-fitting shoes combine with uucleanliness of the feet to disable the 
marching soldier. Hence it is well to use in daily rotation the two 
pairs of shoes included in the equipment of the soldier and so prevent a 
constant pressure upon the same points. On the march the feet are, if 
practicable, to be kept dry, since continuous moisture softens and loosens 
the epidermis and favors the formation of blisters. Shoes, when wet, 
become heavy and rapidly lose their shape ; while damp socks are liable 
to wrinkle and induce abrasions of the cuticle. The employment of soft, 
smooth, undarned socks, of good fit and excellent quality, will do much to 
prevent injury of the feet from marching. 

Cleanliness of the feet on the march is a prime military necessity. Its 
importance is fully understood in European armies, and during campaign 
each German soldier is required by regulations to wash his feet within 
two hours after arrival at camp or cantonment. The ablution of the feet, 
at least once daily, is imperative ; and an even more frequent cleaning is 
desirable during hard field service. Brief immersion in cold water after 
the daily march has a soothing effect and removes the sensation of burning 
and irritation ; but prolonged soaking of the feet is inadvisable as softening 
the cuticle and so tending to promote its injury. If facilities for the 
complete washing of the feet are not at hand, a thorough wiping with a 
wet cloth, particularly of the toes, answers an excellent purpose in the 
removal of grease and dirt. 

A large proportion of such soldiers as suffer from blisters and excoria- 
tions perhaps one half require medical attention and care, and should be 
encouraged to apply to the surgeon for relief; but such are not to be 
readily excused from the performance of full military duty. After the 
washing and drying of sore feet their careful greasing is advisable, 
particularly of painful localities, before the actual formation of blisters has 
occurred. For this purpose the fresh tallow of beef or mutton may be 
used, but the employment of rancid or salted fats is undesirable. Accord- 
ing to Laveran, an excellent plan is to saturate a pair of cotton stockings 
with grease. If worn on the march only, and the feet be cleansed and 
fresh socks donned when camp is reached, a single ]>air of greased stock- 
ings will serve admirably for a number of days without washing. A 
popular method among United States soldiers is to thoroughly soap the 
foot before beginning the day's journey, thus diminishing friction from the 
stocking. For hardening the epidermis, foot baths of strong brine or alum 
solution will be found of advantage as will also the application of alcohol, 
either full strength or diluted one-half with water. For excoriations, the 
use of astringent ointments, having a basis of lead, zinc or tannin, are 
often of service. In the German army a two-per-cent. ointment of salicylic 



92 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

acid, made up with mutton tallow, is much favored. An excellent pro- 
cedure, used in the French and German armies, consists in covering the 
abrasions with wadding soaked in a ten per cent, solution of chromic 
acid. In the beginning of treatment a strength of five per cent, is often 
sufficient. Excessive sweating of the feet may be relieved by bathing in 
weak solutions of perchloride of iron or of potassium permanganate. Re- 
cently weak solutions of formaldehyde have been used for the same pur- 
pose. The use of finely pulverized alum, dusted into the stockings, is said 
by Simonton to diminish secretion and harden the epidermis. For similar 
purposes a foot powder is employed in the German army containing the 
following ingredients : Salicylic acid, 3 parts; starch, 10 parts; powdered 
talcum, 87 parts. Of this powder about 5 gm. are used daily by each indi- 
vidual. Hard corns, if troublesome, may be temporarily removed by scrap- 
ing with a fragment of broken glass. In the prevention of injury to the 
feet by marching three factors must receive consideration : the elimination 
of soldiers with badly formed feet, the issue of a good quality and style of 
footwear, and the enforcement of cleanliness and such measures of pro- 
phylaxis as are above noted. 

Both foot and mounted troops, particularly in hot weather, are liable 
to suffer from chafing of the groins and naten as a result of the wearing of 
ill-fitting, irritating and, sweaty underclothing during the march. A 
knowledge of the cause of the injury suggests the remedy, and the same 
principles should be applied for this condition as have just been suggested 
with reference to the care of the feet of the soldier. 

Pied Force. The swelling of the feet, pain about the tarsal region 
and functional incapacity to some degree observed among large marching 
commands was long supposed to be due to a periostitis of traumatic origin. 
It remained for Boisson and Chapotot to demonstrate in 1899, from 
Eoentgen-ray photographs taken of a considerable number of cases, that 
the condition is due to fracture of the diaphysis of a metatarsal bone, 
usually the second. According to these investigators the fracture is induced 
by the carriage of heavy weights for long distances over rough roads. The 
second metatarsal is usually injured on account of its length, slenderness, 
and proximity to the inner border of the foot. Fixed as it is at its tarsal 
extremity, under the condition of a lever of the second order, It is in just 
the position to be fractured. The condition is naturally rarely bilateral. 
Stout and roomy shoes, with all possible reduction in the weight of the 
equipment, will do much to prevent the occurrence of this accident. 

Heart Strain. A well-defined group of symptoms, for want of a 
more scientific designation known as " irritable heart of the soldier " or 
"heart strain," has received considerable attention from military and medi- 
cal writers in this country notably from Taylor and Da Costa. 

These cardiac symptoms usually occur in young and untrained soldiers, 
especially when weakened by disease or privation, during the occurrence 
of forced marches and particularly in warm weather. The general symp- 
toms may be indefinite, but the soldier usually complains of pain in the 
chest and inability to carry his equipment on the march without losing 
his breath. The pulse is weak, intermittent and dicrotic, and there is the 
general appearance of exhaustion. Often there is dizziness, which may 
occur at night. The condition is brought on by great exertion, particu- 



THE MARCH IN CAMPAIGN. 93 

larly in the absence of proper preliminary training, and especially in such 
cases as may be affected with latent cardiac weakness, not discoverable 
upon ordinary physical examination. Since restricted respiratory function 
must be looked upon as an important exciting cause of heart strain, its 
occurrence will be largely favored by the mechanical compression of the 
chest wall by tight clothing, belts and the weight and mode of carriage 
of the equipment. Examination of the heart reveals no valvular lesions, 
but dilatation of the cardiac chambers, often excessive, may be noted. 
The right ventricle is the one usually dilated because of its thinner walls, 
and the greater proportionate strain to which it is subjected. As a result 
of the examination of a body of soldiers who had marched a distance of 
fifty miles, Teissier, in 1894, noted that the apex of the heart was dis- 
placed outward, that its breadth was increased and that the venous circu- 
lation was impaired. The action of the heart was short and irregular and 
a well-defined cardiac murmur was present. The arterial pressure was 
considerably lowered. The action of the heart may be seriously impaired 
or even paralyzed through the stretching and separation of its muscular 
fibrillse. Permanent and serious impairment of the cardiac function not 
rarely results, although the symptoms of heart strain may disappear as 
long as exertion is not required. A number of cases immediately fatal 
through cardiac paralysis have been noted, although the condition must l>e 
considered rather as chronic than acute. 

According to Taylor, at the battle of Corinth, during the Civil War, 
of two companies which had engaged in a lively reconnaissance, one-fourth 
of the men returned in a state of complete exhaustion, while three soldiers 
had dropped from the ranks from cardiac syncope and were supposed to 
be dead. Even under the most favorable conditions, heart strain dis- 
qualifies the soldier for hard military service ; for the same mode of life 
which originated the disease will operate even more powerfully for its return 
in the weakened organ. 

Should a^ soldier on the march present the symptoms of this affection 
any tight clothing should be loosened, his equipment removed and he 
be furnished with wheel transportation. Continuance of exertion in such 
a case can only result in serious permanent injury to the individual. 
The prophylaxis of this condition depends upon the prompt discharge 
from the military service of all soldiers who, at any time, present signs 
of cardiac weakness. Marches are to be carefully regulated, lest too great 
exertion induce strain and dilatation of the healthy heart and so create a 
condition permanently destructive to the efficiency of the soldier. 

Health. A marching column is proverbially a healthy column and, 
barring footsoreness, usually shows a much smaller rate of sickness than 
when in camp. Daily marching, however, in connection with the concen- 
trated food usually employed, has a tendency to lead men to neglect their 
bowels, in the production of constipation. It is of course desirable, in the 
remedying of this condition, that too strong catharsis be not produced 
while on the march. 

As remarked by Woodhull, for the proper conduction of the march 
either ample personal experience or careful attention to theoretical detail 
is required. 



CHAPTER IV. 

WATEE. 

I. 
aUANTITY, SOURCES, STORAGE AND SUPPLY. 

Quantity. The supply of a sufficient amount of wholesome water is 
, fundamental sanitary necessity. As a general rule, quantity of supply 
has a bearing on the health of troops chiefly through its relation to^ per- 
sonal cleanliness. It may, however, under certain conditions, be so scanty 
as to exert a directly deleterious effect upon the organism of the soldier. 

The determination of the quantity of water to be provided for troops 
depends to a considerable extent upon their manner of living and the 
presence or absence of an efficient system of drainage and sewerage. As 
far as the soldier is concerned, the results either of a limited supply of 
water, or of difficulty in removing water which has been used, are very 
similar. Hence an essential step, in securing the use of an abundance of 
water, is an adequate provision for its subsequent removal. Whatever the 
quantity of water which is to be allowed, the supply, considering the 
circumstances, should be liberal. There should be proper economy in 
use and avoidance of waste ; but any error in supply had far better be on 
the side of excess. For troops in barracks a fair allowance is fifteen gallons 
per capita for all purposes except baths and water closets ; of this amount 
about one and one-half gallons being required for drinking and cooking. 
A daily supply in garrison of five gallons is probably the minimum compat- 
ible with health, and with this quantity proper cleanliness of the person 
and surroundings cannot be maintained. Water closets require four to 
six gallons daily for efficient flushing, according to the pattern used ; and in 
this particular instance a false economy in the use of water is most undesir- 
able. A certain amount of water, when the post is sewered, about five gal- 
lons per capita, will advantageously be allowed to run to waste in each 
twenty-four hours in order to maintain due cleanliness of the sewer pipes. 
Where shower baths are used, an allowance of three or four gallons a head is 
sufficient for a daily bath. If the tub bath system is employed, the amount 
of water required for each bath is much greater forty to fifty gallons but 
such baths are less convenient and are probably taken less frequently. 
Taking all factors into consideration, together with the matter of un- 
avoidable wastage, it is probable that a daily allowance of not less 
than thirty-five gallons will be to the best interests of the soldier. In 
the British army each adult is entitled by regulations to receive twenty 
gallons, and each child ten gallons, per diem. According to Viry, 
the minimum allowance in the French service is seven and one-half 
gallons to the foot soldier, nine gallons to the cavalryman, and twenty- 



WATER. 95 

five gallons to each kitchen. In Germany, according to the same 
authority, the daily allowance is twelve and one-half gallons to each 
soldier. These amounts are obviously quite insufficient for the main- 
tenance of the standard of cleanliness, as regards person and surroundings, 
obtaining in the army of the United States. In hot climates a much 
greater quantity is required for washing and bathing; and probably a 
supply of fifty gallons per diem, under such circumstances, should be re- 
garded as the minimum. 

At certain western stations in the arid belt, where the water supply 
from rainfall is never very great and is somewhat uncertain, the supply of 
water available may be, at certain periods, insufficient to meet demands 
for all purposes. Nearly all posts of this character, however, have been 
abandoned during the last few years. 

For hospitals a much larger quantity of water must be provided than 
is required for barracks. Where possible the supply should be unlimited. 
There is necessarily much bathing and washing in such institutions, 
and with a considerable proportion of typhoid cases the average daily 
consumption, per capita, may readily reach two hundred and fifty gallons. 

The minimum quantity of water ordinarily to IKJ supplied during 
active campaign amounts to about two gallons daily, divided as follows: 
For drinking and cooking purposes, four and one-half quarts; for the 
maintenance of cleanliness, two and one-half quarts ; unavoidable wastage, 
one quart During great emergency the matter of bodily cleanliness 
may be disregarded, and the amount of water for drinking and cooking 
purposes reduced to about three or four quarts but such reduction must 
obviously be only temporary. During campaign in hot weather or in the 
tropics it is probable that a daily allowance of three gallons should be 
considered as the minimum compatible with a reasonable degree of comfort. 

During a march the water supply is limited, consisting for each man 
of what can be carried in the canteen. No dependence can often be placed 
on the probability of replenishing the supply while en route, and hence the 
guides for use should be the water level in the canteen and the length of 
the day or journey, rather than the desires of the individual. Experience 
shows the capacity of the canteen, one quart, to be often insufficient during 
long marches in hot weather; but it is especially under these conditions 
that the overloading of the foot soldier by an additional burden is highly 
inadvisable. For mounted troops no such objection obtains, and hence 
for long marches in a hot and waterless country the carriage of an extra 
canteen by the cavalryman will usually be of advantage. In certain 
regions, water is so scarce that judicious management is required to for- 
ward troops over the route. Some camping stations may have enough for 
only one or two companies or regiments, and the command, if larger, 
must pass in detachments. Where the distance between the nearest 
supplies of water is too great to be marched without rest, a dry camp 
must be made at some suitable intervening point, as much water as pos- 
sible being transported with the command. 

For stationary camps the minimum quantity of water to be supplied 
each soldier, for all purposes, should be placed at about five gallons. If 
the quantity be more than ten gallons per capita its proper disposal, in the 
absence of sewers, may become a serious problem. 



96 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Horses require, as a daily minimum, six to eight gallons of water for 
drinking purposes, according to season and work, with an additional 
allowance of about three gallons for the maintenance of cleanliness. If a 
horse be given free access to water, he will take eight to ten gallons daily, 
and sometimes more, drinking from one and one-half to two gallons at a 
time. Mules and cattle drink slightly less than horses. In the expedi- 
tion against Santiago, the official allowance of water for horses and mules 
was six gallons per capita, this appearing to be sufficient. In the Brit- 
ish service the maximum allowance for each public animal is twenty 
gallons. 

Where watering the streets of the camp or post is necessary, the dust 
may be laid by the use of two hundred and twenty-five gallons to each 
six hundred square yards of surface. In providing the amount of water 
required for this purpose, the probable number of dusty days, as well as 
the superficial space to be watered, should be taken into consideration. 

Permanency. In the establishment of a military post or standing 
camp, the importance of determining the permanence of the water supply 
is obvious. To this end any available evidence should be obtained; 
particularly with reference to the amount and period of rain, without 
which it is impossible to arrive at any safe conclusion. The country 
which forms the gathering-ground for the springs or rivers should be 
considered. If there be an extensive background of hills, the springs 
toward the foot of the hills will probably be permanent. In a flat country 
the permanency is doubtful unless there be evidence from the temperature 
of the spring that the water comes from some depth. In limestone regions, 
springs are often fed from subterranean reservoirs, caused by the gradual 
solution of the rocks by the water charged with carbonic acid, and such 
springs are very permanent. In the chalk districts there are few springs 
or streams, on account of the porosity of the soil, unless at points where 
the level is considerably below that of the country generally. The same 
may be said of the sandstone formations, both old and new; but deep 
wells in sandstone often yield largely, as the permeable rocks form a vast 
reservoir. In the granitic and trap districts small streams are liable to 
great variations, unless fed from lakes ; springs are more permanent when 
they exist. Much also depends upon the quantity and character of the 
vegetation of the watershed. Where the country is well wooded, the 
trees, undergrowth and especially the dead vegetable matter covering the 
ground do much to retain moisture and render its percolation to lower 
levels a gradual process. The roots of vegetation greatly promote absorp- 
tion of the rainfall. Further, in northern climates, heavy vegetation 
greatly delays the melting of snow in the spring, and thus assists in creat- 
ing a supply of water for the dryer summer months. If the watershed be 
cleared of timber and brushwood the volume of existing watercourses is 
materially altered, a steady supply at all seasons being replaced by alter- 
nating periods of freshet and drought. This is a matter of particular" im- 
portance in those regions, as in the arid belt of the west, where the annual 
precipitation is small, and is limited to certain seasons. Several military 
posts established on what had previously been perennial streams of ample 
volume have had their existence threatened as a result of the greatly de- 
creased water supply which followed the mistaken policy of permitting 



WATER. 97 

indiscriminate felling of timber and unchecked forest fires. In ..n,. 
instance the removal of a large number of beaver dams allowed the rapid 
escape of waters during the spring floods, none being retained to trickle 
down into the reservoir of the post during the dry season. 

In determining the sufficiency of a water supply for a proposed post, 
the decision should be obviously based upon estimates made during the 
period of least flow, and preferably for the dryest year. 

Rain Water. Rain water approaches nearer to purity than any 
other kind of natural water, receiving only such contamination as may be 
derived from the atmosphere. This water is highly ae'rated, containing a 
greater proportion of oxygen as regards nitrogen than does atmospheric 
air, through the readiness with which the former gas passes into aqueous 
solution. Through its purity and aeration it is both healthful and palat- 
able ; and when the supply from the surface or ground water is poor the 
use of rain water is desirable. Through the absence of earthy salts, rain 
water is very soft and admirably suited for purposes of cleanliness and 
cooking. Where proper arrangements for its storage in tanks or cisterns 
can be made, the use of such water is calculated to limit the diseases 
ordinarily transmitted by water. This is especially the case in time of 
epidemics, when infectious material so frequently finds its way into the 
general source of water supply for the community. The uncertainty of 
the rainfall from year to year, the length of the dry season in many 
localities and the large size of the cisterns which are then required are the 
disadvantages of using water from this source. The use of cisterns as a 
source of water supply for troops is still continued at Fort Stevens^ Fort 
St. Philip, Jackson Barracks, and other stations. At many small artillery 
posts no other method of supply is available, and it has happened, in 
periods of drought, that water has had to be brought in by boat and 
pumped into the cisterns. At certain western stations, notably old Fort 
Sisseton, established for military reasons away from an abundant water 
supply, cisterns were employed for the purpose of supplementing the 
scanty and uncertain local supply. 

In determining the amount of water available from the rainfall, the 
precipitation during the juried to be considered and the area of the re- 
ceiving surface must be known. The former can be determined only by 
a rain gauge ; the latter may be measured. To calculate the receiving sur- 
face of a roof, the slope should not be taken into account, but merely 
the flat surface actually covered by the roof. The external dimensions of 
the building, when multiplied together, give a superficies slightly less 
than the area of the roof, which also includes a certain space due to the 
projection of the eaves. For military purposes it is sufficient to multiply 
the area of the receiving surface by half the rainfall in inches, the result 
being in gallons. The error by this calculation is only about four per cent. 

In estimating the size of the cistern required, besides the amount of 
water to be used daily, the least, the greatest and the average annual rain- 
fall should be known ; together with the period when it falls, and the 
duration of the rainless season, when no replenishment of the supply, from 
time to time, may be expected. The average of twenty years, less one- 
third, gives very accurately the amount of rain in the driest year; and the 
same average, plus one-third, gives very nearly the amount in the wettest 
7 



98 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

year. The average of the three driest years in twenty is a safe basis for 
computation. It may be assumed that about six-tenths of the rainfall is 
ordinarily available for storage. 

For the construction of large cisterns the best material is brick or 
stone, thoroughly cemented inside. Common mortar should not be allowed 
to come in contact with the contained water, since lime is readily taken 
up and the water becomes hard. In the construction of small cisterns, 
slate may be advantageously employed, but is somewhat liable to leakage. 
For tanks above ground, galvanized iron is much used. Where common 
boiler iron is employed the metal corrodes and colors the water; in such 
instances the application of an interior coating of cement or asphaltum 
paint is advisable. Wooden tanks should not be used, especially in hot 
climates. Where there is great fluctuation in the water level of a wooden 
cistern, organic development is liable to occur and the tank itself readily 
falls out of repair. 

Receptacles for the storage of rain water should always be well covered 
to prevent pollution of their contents, and be thoroughly ventilated if of 




Fio. 8. Separating Tank for Rain Water. 

any great size. Light should be excluded to prevent the growth of 
vegetation. Care should always be taken that there is no leakage into 
them, a contingency impossible if the cisterns be above ground, \yhere 
the latter plan is adopted, a large iron tank, on a suitable platform, is per- 
haps the best reservoir; bearing in mind the fact that in addition to the 
weight of the tank each gallon of water stored at a temperature of 60 F. 
will weigh about ten pounds. It is important that the overflow pipe be not 
directly connected with a sewer thus allowing the absorption of sewer 
gases but be made to discharge above ground over a trapped grating. 

The amount of dust collected on a roof during periods of prolonged 
drought is by no means inconsiderable ; and to this may be added organic 
matter in the form of leaves, mossy growths and the excrement of birds. 
Such materials impart a peculiarly unpleasant taste to cistern water, as 
well as being a possible agent in the production of disease, and hence the 
separation and rejection of the first portion of the rainfall is desirable. 
This is readily accomplished by several forms of automatic apparatus, the 
most simple of which is a receiving tank operating a float, the latter mov- 
ing a plunger in a divided pipe so as to divert the stream of water from 
one pipe through the other after the tank is filled. According to Viry, it 



WATER. 



99 



has been determined that a rainfall of one liter on each two square meters of 
collecting space is ordinarily sufficient for securing cleanliness, and hence 
the dimensions of the separating tank may lie calculated accordingly. In 
the absence of automatic apparatus of this character, the rejection of the 
roof washings may be less conveniently accomplished by inserting a joint 
in the conductor, which, when in place, leads the water into a cistern, 
but when turned runs it to waste. 

It is always advisable to filter rain-water Ixjfore storage. This is 
preferably accomplished according to the plan shown in the accompany- 
ing illustration. Where this cannot be done, the cistern may be divided 
into two compartments by a tight partition having several openings near 
the bottom. In one compartment is placed the filtering material, usually 
composed of three or four feet of clean, coarse sand. The roof leadeV 
empties into this side, while the filtered water is drawn from the other 
compartment. Where the cistern is so large that it cannot well be covered, 
a second smaller tank, capable of holding a few days' supply, might be 




I __i 



FIG. 9. Method of Filtering Rain Water. (After I'arkes..) 

provided and fitted with a filter through which water from the larger 
reservoir could be led as required. 

Cisterns should be periodically inspected and cleaned. This is a 
matter of great importance ; since there are recorded many instances of the 
grossest kind of pollution of cistern water, arising from ignorant neglect 
of what would seem very evident and simple precautions. 

Surface Waters. The water of large lakes is usually excellent and 
free from any great impurity. The mineral matter present, in both nature 
and amount, largely depends upon the character of the soil over which the 
water rests ; but ordinarily, with the exception of lime salts, the quantity 
of dissolved mineral matter is small. The organic material present is 
chiefly of vegetable and not animal origin. In small surface ponds the 
water is frequently unwholesome from the high degree of vegetable im- 
pregnation and is largely exposed to animal contamination, while concen- 
tration by evaporation may render such water more deleterious. Water 
from such sources should ordinarily be regarded as unsafe. 

Marsh water should be unhesitatingly rejected as a source of supply 
for troops, being rich in organic matter and hence in the lower forms of 



100 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

animal life. It undoubtedly has a strong influence on the prevalence of 
dysentery, and is presumably a medium by which the causative agent of 
malaria finds its way into the organism. 

Fed from a variety of sources and directly influenced by season and 
meteorological conditions, river water is usually complex in its constitu- 
tion. Sometimes river water is almost as pure as rain water; or it may, 
on the other hand, contain a high proportion of mineral matter, or be foul 
from pollution by sewage or other impurities. An excellent index of the 
potability of river water is ordinarily given by the character of the country 
through which it flows, and the density of the population along its banks. 
In general, river water is both good and palatable ; but streams receiving 
the sewage of towns or undergoing pollution from the encampment of large 
bodies of troops along their banks are dangerous sources of supply for many 
miles below the point of contamination. It is true that surface, and espe- 
cially running, water undergoes self -purification ; but the factors bringing 
about this end are dependent upon such variable conditions that it is 
scarcely possible to determine both rapidly and accurately the point at 
which such water again becomes suitable for human consumption. As 
far as the military sanitarian is concerned, it is probably safe to consider 
all running water receiving a proportionately large amount of organic 
contamination within the distance of one day's march for foot troops, 
estimated on the meander line of the stream, as at least suspicious. 

This process of self -purification of surface waters varies greatly in 
rapidity, according, as stated above, to the presence or absence of varying 
factors. Solid sewage is soon deposited on the bed of the stream or be- 
comes food for fish and the lower forms of organic life. Dissolved or 
particulate organic material, in a rapid current, breaks up quickly under 
the influence of the large amount of oxygen held in solution in such 
highly aerated waters, and the same factor is inimical to the development 
and existence of pathogenic micro-organisms. The latter also are probably 
destroyed by the hard particles of sand or grit held in suspension in a 
turbid water and with which they constantly come in violent contact, 
while the sedimentation of such earthy particles in still waters results also 
in the mechanical entanglement and deposition of a considerable proportion 
of the germ life. Kruger, in investigating the influence of precipitating 
mud in hastening the fall of suspended bacteria, and using one-half gramme 
of fine sterilized potter's clay in each liter of water, obtained the following 
counts of bacteria in each cubic centimeter, the water being maintained at 
55 F. : 





WATER WITH CLAY. 


CONTROL WATER CONTAINING 
No CLAY. 


Top. 


Middle. 


Bottom. 


Top. 


Middle. 


Bottom. 


After standing two hours 
After standing twenty hours . . 
After standing fifty hours 


575 
521 
6,933 


887 
155 
6,190 


33,495 
43,595 
66,350 


5,340 
5,960 
7,230 


6,110 
6,710 

5,987 


5,480 
6,210 
6,924 



In addition, the solar rays are powerful factors in the destruction of 
bacteria, the blue and violet rays being particularly germicidal. This in- 
fluence of the solar rays has been ingeniously shown by Buchner, who 



WATER. 



101 



exposed a Petri dish, thickly sowed with the typhoid bacillus, to the sun- 
light ; certain parts of the dish being shaded by letters of the alphabet cut 
out of black paper. After six hours' exposure the dish was removed and 
placed in an incubator, subsequent examination showing no development 
of bacteria on the parts exposed to the sunlight, while a strikingly luxuriant 
* and well-defined growth occurred on the parts shaded by the black letters. 
Buchner also found that the germicidal effect of sunlight was pronounced 
even at considerable depths of water, plates of nutrient gelatin inoculated 
with the typhoid bacillus being sterilized by exposure during four and one- 
half hours at a depth of five feet three inches in kke water. Similar 
plates, however, exposed at a distance of ten feet below the surface, ex- 
hibited but little diminution of vitality. It is obvious that the degree of 
turbidity in a water markedly influences the action of sunlight on the 
contained micro-organisms. 

Where a considerable body of troops is to be encamped or stationed on 
a small watercourse, it is often important that the sufficiency of supply 




FIG. 10. -Side View of Weir. 

furnished by the stream should be determined. Should it be required 
to ascertain the yield with great exactness, the plan most generally adopted 
by engineers consists in the use of a carefully leveled weir of thin board 
or metal in which a rectangular notch has been cut, having a width of one 
foot. The water flows over this weir in a thin sheet, the difference in 
height between the apex of the notch and the level of the water flowing 
through the notch being measured. If the weir is more or less than a 
foot, the quantity in the table opposite the given depth should be multi- 
plied by the length of the weir in feet, or decimals of a foot. If the weir 
measure one foot, and the depth of water falling over be two inches, the 
delivery is read at once, viz., 13.63 cubic feet, or 84. 9 gallons, per minute. 
The following table of reference is given by Notter and Firth : 



Depth falling 
over, inches. 


Discharge 
per minute, 
cubic feet. 


Depth falling 
over, Inches 


Discharge 
per minute, 
cubic feet. 


Depth falling 
over, inches. 


Discharge 
per minute, 
cubic feeC 


i 


1.70 


2 


13.63 


3* 


KM 




4.82 


2i 


19.70 


4 


40.71 


H 


8.84 


3 


26.62 







For the purposes of the military sanitarian, however, sufficient accuracy 
may be attained by selecting a portion of the stream where the channel is 



102 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

fairly uniform, and presents no eddies for a distance of fifteen to twenty 
yards. The sectional area is obtained by measuring the breadth and depth 
in several places. A chip, cork or other light object is then floated over 
a certain distance of the portion of channel chosen, the surface velocity in 
feet per second being thus obtained. The surface velocity, however, is 
greater than the bottom or mean velocity, and hence four-fifths of the sur- * 
face velocity being nearly the. proportion of mean to surface velocity- 
multiplied by the sectional area, will give the yield of the stream per 
second. It may sometimes be worth while, if labor be available, to remove 
some of the irregularities in the channel before calculating the yield of a 
watercourse. For greater nicety the stream may be dammed, and the 
water passed through an artificial channel, as a wooden trough, of known 
dimensions. 

Where a stream which serves as a source of supply is small, it is 
frequently desirable to accumulate during the night and hours of non-use 
the water which would otherwise run to waste, and thus provide a 
sufficiency for the great demands made upon it at certain periods during 




FIG. 11. Front"View of Weir. 

the day. The storage of surface water occurs naturally in depressions of 
the ground surface, and its collection by artificial means consists almost 
entirely in imitating these natural processes. Special arrangements are 
necessarily required in each case. In hilly countries a reservoir is 
usually formed by carrying a dam across a valley receiving the tribu- 
tary waters of adjacent hills; or on a flatter surface, trenches may be 
arranged, leading finally to an excavated tank. In form, a reservoir should 
be deep rather than extended, so as to diminish evaporation and secure 
coolness. Previous to collecting the water the bottom of a proposed 
reservoir should be policed, and, as far as possible, be cleared of all vege- 
table material. Decomposition of recently killed vegetation takes place 
under water quite rapidly at first, but the process is soon converted into 
one of exceeding slowness, particularly when the covering water is deep. 
Alternate flooding and exposure to sun and air is quickly destructive of 
vegetable matter ; and as a result, a reservoir with very gently sloping sides 
furnishes conditions favorable to a contaminated water supply, particularly 
if the water be liable at times to considerable reduction in depth. * Even 
though the level of the contents be maintained at high-water mark, sloping 
sides permit thin layers of water to be overheated by the summer sun ; thus 
encouraging a growth of aquatic plants which subsequently decay, to the 
damage of the water. The reservoir and its vicinity should be kept 
scrupulously clean, and no possible source of contamination should be per- 



WATER. 



108 



mitted to exist. For temporary encampments, the quantity of water to In- 
stored depends usually only on the quantity used, hut for permanent 
garrisons the ease of replenishing must also 1m taken into consideration. 
There are also losses incidental to storage which must not 1*3 overlooked, 
these being chiefly due to the processes of percolation and evaporation! 

The formula for storage given bv Xotterand Firth is- as follows- n. 



where F represents the mean annual rainfall in inches and I) the iiunitier of 
days' supply to be stored. 

It should not be forgotten that surface water is extremely liable to 
pollution, and hence a careful inspection of the surroundings of a proposed 
source of supply is of the greatest importance, the question of the probable 
healthfulness of such water being often necessarily decided, in the military 
service, by such inspection. Surface water is particularly liable to con- 
tamination by sewage, manufacturing waste or organic refuse; ly manure 
washed down from cultivated lands of the watershed ; by animals pastured 
on the gathering ground or having direct access to such water supply ; by 




FIG. 12. Method of Forming Reservoir for Camps. 

dead animals in such situations; by refuse from encampments and by 
persons bathing or washing clothing. Of these, contamination by sewage 
and organic refuse is the most important in its relation to health, and with 
the settling up of sparsely settled districts such later contamination of the 
water supply has forced the abandonment of garrisoned posts, recently that 
of Fort Ouster. 

Where surface waters are used as a source of supply by a marching 
command, great care is necessary to prevent a supply, originally pure, 
from rapidly becoming contaminated and unfit for use as a result of lax 
sanitary administration; the danger being less in the case of ground 
waters. To this end the officer entrusted with the duty of forming an en- 
campment for troops in the tield will promptly place a guard over the 
water supply, taking the sentries from the first troops that arrive on the 
ground. When the camp is completely formed, the regular guard should 
take charge of the supply. Under such circumstances every effort should 
be made against waste, against pollution, and against the turbidity which 
results from trampling the margin of a surface supply into mud. If the 
camp is of any permanency and the water is derived from a small stream, 
the approach should be paved and so located that the water may be dipped 
from the main current and not from a foul eddy. Where the supply is 



104 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

taken from such a source, the water used for drinking should be drawn 
from a part well above the camp ; for watering animals a place should be 
selected below this, and the lowest part devoted to bathing and the wash- 
ing of clothing and utensils. Where an encampment is located on a large 
body of water, as a lake, the points at which water may be drawn, animals 
watered and washing carried on should be widely separated and specially 
designated. Where a camp is of any permanency, water will be best 
given to animals, if the supply is limited, by receiving it first in troughs, 
as by so doing less disturbance of the stream results. As a general rule, 
the less the water supply the greater the care necessary to maintain its 
purity. 

An essay for the use of volunteers, published in 1861, advised placing 
latrines over running water when possible. Fortunately this was corrected 
in the next edition ; but the same mistake was made by raw troops during 
the war with Spain, and the incident is cited to show that the importance 
of guarding the water supply is sometimes strangely overlooked. Noth- 
ing is better established than that no refuse, and especially no fecal matter, 
should be discharged so as to follow a stream, either directly or indirectly, 
unless it be one of the great rivers, and then only when .it is certain that 
the water is to be used by no one within a reasonable distance. It is 
suicidal to pollute small streams which may possibly supply our own forces 
sooner or later, and it is nothing less than criminal to spread disease in 
that way among a civil population, or even among an enemy. In hard soil 
especially, a water supply at a lower level even if it be at some distance 
is liable to be sooner or later polluted in spite of ordinary care and give 
rise to enteric fever and other water-borne infections. 

Ice used in the military service within the United States may be con- 
sidered as wholly derived from the congelation of surface waters due to 
natural processes. In freezing, water becomes much purer, losing a large 
portion of its saline contents, even calcium carbonate and sulphate being 
largely reduced in quantity. Air at the same time is expelled. Water 
produced by the melting of ice is thus usually pure but heavy and non- 
aerated. Snow water contains less ammonia, carbon dioxide and dissolved 
oxygen than rain water. Clear ice is much purer, as regards both mineral 
and organic matter, than snow ice ; the former containing only six per 
cent, where the latter contains twelve per cent, of the organic matter in 
the water from which they were derived. As to bacterial life, Notter and 
Firth state that snow ice has been found to contain as much as eighty-one 
per cent, of the amount present in the water, while clear ice contains only 
two per cent. Prudden found the number of bacteria, per cubic centimeter, 
in water derived from several samples of melted ice cut from the same cake, 
to be as follows: Transparent ice, 2,322; bubbly-streak ice, 26,049; snow 
ice, 55,062. 

It is thus obviously much safer to use clear ice for cooling drinking- 
water, and for placing in contact with food. If distilled water is employed 
in its manufacture, artificial ice made by the can system is extremely 
pure. Where ordinary water is used, the outer portion of the cake is pro- 
portionately free from impurity, but the centre of the cake, through 
concentration, is highly impure. Prolonged freezing has no marked effect 
upon the vitality of the typhoid bacillus, though alternate freezing and 



WATER. 



106 



thawing have. It should, therefore, be an unvarying rule that ice should 
never be cut from bodies of water which are not in every way suited for 
drinking purposes, and due care should be taken to prevent its contamina- 
tion during the operation of harvesting and storage. Ice may be fairly 
well preserved in cool climates, for use in warmer weather, by heaping it 
up in layers, protected by sawdust, under an ordinary shed; or by storing 
it in the same manner in properly drained excavations in the ground. 
For permanent posts, ice-houses should be constructed on the general plan 
detailed in the section on tropical hygiene. 

Ground Water. Spring water is both pure and impure in different 
cases ; and the mere fact of water being derived from a spring is not, as 
sometimes imagined, necessarily an evidence of goodness. As a general 
rule, however, water derived from such a source may be regarded as of 
excellent quality and well adapted for use by troops. No small number 
of stations in this country are supplied with water from springs, among 
them being such important posts as Angel Island, and Forts Huachuca, 
Snelling, and Eobiusou. For standing camps, springs have the greater 
merit of being a source of supply the contamination of which can be 
readily prevented. Pasteur and Joubert long since found that spring 
water, on emerging' from the soil, usually contained but few micro- 
organisms, while after comparatively brief contact with the surface it con- 
tained vast numbers. Spring water is clear and bright, in consequence of 
the great degree of filtration which it naturally undergoes in percolating 
through the strata which it may have traversed between the gathering 
ground and the point from which it issues again from the earth. For the 
same reason it is generally cool, unless coming from a depth much above 
two hundred feet ; and by the reason of the gas it contains, is sparkling 
and brisk to the taste. The temperature of spring water varies, and is 
generally regulated by the depth. 

The yield of a spring is determined most readily by receiving the water 
into a vessel of known capacity and timing the rate of filling. The spring 
should have previously been opened up and the receptacle employed 
should be of large size. The capacity of the vessel used as a standard may 
l>e found by filling it by means of a known measure or by determining its 
several dimensions, capacity in cubic feet being reduced to gallons by 
multiplying by 6.23. If a tub or cask only be procurable, its capacity may 
be determined by measuring the diameter midway between the bung and 
the head, designating this measurement M. The bung diameter is called 
B, the head diameter H and the length of the barrel L; then (H* -f- B f -f 4 
M s ) X L X 0.0004721 willgive the contents in gallons. Should a spring 
be steady but small in volume an increased supply may frequently be ob- 
tained by digging out the spring head. 

A box or barrel, from which the bottom has been removed, should 
always be sunk in a spring head, to prevent fouling of the water through its 
disturbance during removal. Where used for any length of time a spring 
should be enclosed, its level raised and the ground made to slope away 
from rather than toward it. If this is impracticable, the vicinity should 
be so ditched that all surface drainage from higher ground is intercepted 
and conducted to a point below the level of the spring. The latter should 
be frequently cleansed and all accumulations of leaves or debris removed. 



106 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Artesian wells are practically springs of artificial origin. They are 
generally of great depth and tap a sheet of water held under high pressure 
between two impermeable strata, both of which crop up elsewhere at a 
higher level. In the military service, artesian wells will only rarely serve 
as a source of water supply. During the war with Spain, however, wells 
of this character furnished the water consumed by troops at several of the 
large camps in Florida; and they are also in use at the garrisoned posts of 
Forts Logan, McPherson, St. Francis Barracks and Vancouver Barracks. 
Water from such a source is usually of excellent quality and contains only 
a very minute quantity of organic matter. In some cases, however, 
it is so charged with saline matter as to be undrinkable. The waters 
of the artesian wells in Florida, above mentioned, were highly charged 
with sulphur dioxide; this gas, however, being rapidly dissipated on ex- 
posure to the air. As a general rule, artesian water is not well aerated 
and is by no means as paktable as spring water. Laveran states that 
water furnished by artesian wells is usually quite sterile. 

Excavated wells, while properly to be rarely employed as a source of 
water supply in garrison, may frequently be called upon to supplement a 




PIG. 13. Diagram Showing how an Impermeable Stratum, d. May Permit Water in Wells, a, b, and c, to 
be derived from different levels. (After Mason.) 

deficient water supply in the field. Such wells are usually classified as 
deep or shallow, according as the depth is greater or less than fifty feet. 
Deep wells, rarely found in the military service, are usually good sources 
of supply ; the great efficiency of the filtration which most of these well 
waters have undergone being attested by their freedom from suspended 
material, either mineral or organic. Water from such wells is usually 
pure, and, unless extremely hard, excellent for drinking purposes. Shallow 
wells, on the contrary, are readily exposed to contamination by surface 
drainage or soakage, and the water from such wells is always to be re- 
garded with suspicion. The amount of organic matter in shallow wells is 
usually large, and is too often of animal origin. In locating such wells 
in the field the ground for a radius of one hundred yards should not be 
camped upon and a site should be selected entirely free from the danger 
of overflow by storm water. If possible, the mouth of the well should be 
sheltered, and a sufficient coping to prevent possible accident and limit 
contamination is always necessary the level of the surrounding ground 
being made to slope from and not toward the mouth to prevent the en- 
trance of surface water. Precaution should be taken for the conduction to 
a short distance of such water as may be spilled after being drawn, so 
that it is not immediately returned to the well saturated with the organic 



WATER. 



107 



a light 
reach the 



material dissolved during percolation through the necessarily polluted 
soil around the well site. When used in garrison, wells should be 
stoned and rendered impervious to surface soakage by an interior 'rat- 
ing of cement; but in the field this precaution is obviously impossible. 
For very shallow, temporary wells, an excellent plan to prevent cav- 
ing of the walls and facilitate the drawing of water consists in a frame- 
work of plank, set in the excavation, the earth previously removed being 
packed around this frame. For wells not greater than "twenty-five feet 
in depth, in soft soil, the removal of eartli during the process of ex- 
cavation may be accompanied by the forcing down or building of a 
protecting frame, these frames being necessarily made progressively 
smaller as the depth of the well is increased. For such well- 
pump provided with a rubber pipe of sufficient length to 
water level can be used with ad- 
vantage. A pump is always much 
superior to the rope and bucket 
system, through the lessened danger 
of pollution by the former means. 

A well drains an extent of 
ground around it nearly in the shape 
of an inverted cone. The area 
must, of course, depend upon the 
soil ; but it has been demonstrated 
that the radius of the surface area 
drained is ordinarily at least equal 
to four times the depth, and that it 
often exceeds this. The curve of 
the subterranean water-level rises 
suddenly near the well and becomes 
gradually flatter as it extends under 
the ground surface, the distance to 
which it reaches depending on the lowering of the level of the water 
in the well. Thus a shallow well heavily pumped may drain a wider 
area than a deeper well under moderate pumping this fact being of great 
significance in connection with wells in a densely populated eneanu;>- 
ment, where soil pollution is both extensive and rapid and where the with- 
drawal of water is constant and great. The distance to which the 
influence of pumping is felt on the ground water is very variable, ranging 
from fifteen to one hundred and sixty times the depression of the water 
in the well. A well which yields a moderate quantity of good water may 
thus, if the demand on it be increased, draw water from the surrounding 
parts to meet the demand, and thus tap sources of impurity which a 
moderate demand left untouched. A sudden rise in the ground water may 
also lead to communication between a cesspit and a well, by the water 
tapping the former in its flow. The trend of the sub-soil water at any 
given point being always in the direction of the nearest natural out let, 
\\ hen such exists as a spring, stream, or sheet of water it is evident 
that the purer water will be found before it passes such possible point of 
pollution. For this reason it is possible, in the case of two wells situated 
only a short distance from each other, that one may yield a pure water 




Fio. H. Temporary Well for Encampment*. 



108 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



and its neighbor one highly contaminated. This point should not be 
overlooked in the respective location of wells and latrines or other sources 
of pollution. 

Where pollution of a well from a latrine or similar source of contamina- 
tion is suspected, a large amount of salt dissolved in a considerable bulk 

of water may be poured into the vault and 
the water in the well repeatedly examined 
quantitatively for chlorides. Many color- 
ing substances have also been employed for 
this purpose, and among these fluorescin and 
methylene blue have been found to be the 
most satisfactory. According to Trillat, 
fluorescin may be detected in a strength of 
one part in two billions of water. All 
colors are removed by peat. Clay and sand 
let colors pass freely, but humus and garden 
soil retain all but fluorescin and acid fuchsin. 
The yield of wells can be determined 
only by lowering the water to a certain 
level and noting the length of time required 
for refilling,as well as measuring the quan- 
tity removed; the complete removal of the 
water is unnecessary for a sufficiently ac- 
FIO. is. Method of sinking Temporary curate estimate in this respect. 

Well for Camps, Showing Portable TTT1 r n . ni , 

pump and Filter. Where the water supply, especially for 

encampments, must be derived from existing 

wells, a careful inspection of their character, and particularly of their sur- 
roundings, should be made. The water of those located in the vicinity of 
refuse heaps or privy vaults should be carefully avoided. It is said 
by Bashore that in the state of Pennsylvania the proportion of typhoid 
fever is fifteen times greater in the country districts than it is in cities ; 
this being explained by the fact that the population in the former case 
is obliged to depend upon well water, drawn from ground water often 
infected from privies which at one time or other have contained typhoid 
excreta. Unless properly protected at the top, wells are liable to con- 





FIG. 16. Diagram Showing Pollution of Well from Latrine through Trend of Ground Water. 

tamination by small animals and refuse which may fall in through the 
open mouth. In porous soil, surface waters readily percolate into wells 
with unprotected sides, frequently following the course of the suction pipe 
if this be carried out through the wall. In wells of long standing, rat-runs, 



WATER. 

the burrows of small animals and earthworms and the roots of dead trees 
frequently increase the danger of such contamination, by allowing direct 
access of surface water without it being first filtered through the soil 
Excavated wells are still used as important sources of supply at certain 
Western posts. Among these are Forts Riley, Bayard, Keogh, Yates and 
San Carlos. Their use should be discontinued. 

Driven wells, commonly known as Norton's tube wells, were much 
used during the Civil War and have been generally adopted in foreign 
military services. In the British expeditious in Abyssinia and the Soudan 
they gave excellent results, and they are now successfully employed at 
Forts Monroe, Assinniboine, Reno, Barrancas and other stations. At 
most of these stations water is found at no 
great depth, not more than fifteen or twenty 
feet. At Barrancas, however, the wells which 
supply the post are driven much deeper. 

These wells are made readily available 
where a temporary supply is required, and are 
far superior to dug wells as being much less 
liable to surface pollution. Fraenkel found, 
in a central district of the city of Berlin, that 
water drawn from a driven well sunk to a dis- 
tance of four meters below the surface was 
germ-free. Where the driven well is used it 
is obvious that direct contamination of the 
ground water from the surface is avoided ; and 
it is important to remember in this connection 
that bacterial life diminishes as the depth be- 
low the surface increases, due to excess of car- 
bon dioxide, deficiency of oxygen and a degree 
of coolness unfavorable to the development of 
micro-organisms. Concerning the purity of 
water afforded by driven wells, the commission 
investigating this subject for the London 
Lancet, in 1899, reported that while such 
water " is not wholly free from risk, yet where the tube passes through an 
impermeable stratum the risk is reduced to a minimum. " 

To establish a driven well, a section of iron pipe, shod with a perfor- 
ated steel point, is forced into the ground by a mallet or adjustable weight, 
additional lengths of pipe being screwed on as required. After being 
driven down to the water-level a common pump is attached. On pumping 
a short time the water becomes clear and a cavity is formed around the 
lower end of the pipe, through removal of the finer particles of soil by suc- 
tion. Where the water is not more than twenty to twenty-five feet below the 
surface a supply can be obtained with little trouble, the yield being about 
seven gallons per minute. If the water lies at a lower level, a special pump 
becomes necessary. In the British army the Bastein pump is used fr 
this purpose, having an endless chain and worked by two men at a wheel; 
the yield, from a depth of forty-five feet, being said to be about twenty- 
two hundred and fifty gallons per hour. If necessary, the pipes can be 
driven to a depth of as much as one hundred and fifty feet below the sur- 




Fio. 17. A, Apparatus for Driving ; 
B, Driven Well. 



110 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

face. Driven wells are used to best advantage in gravel, coarse sand and 
chalk ; their use in clay, marl or fine sand being less satisfactory through 
the greater liability of the pipe to become blocked. The pipes naturally 
cannot be driven through rock. 

Koch recommends that tubes be placed in all dug wells the surround- 
ing space to be filled in with clean gravel and sand and the water raised 
by a pump fixed at the surface. 

Search for Water. Occasionally the sanitary officer will be in a 
position in which he has to search for water, but for this procedure few 
precise rules can be laid down. On plains, the depth at which water will 
be found naturally depends on the permeability of the soil and the depth 
at which a stratum of hard rock or clay will support the ground water. 
The plain may be surveyed, and if any part seems below the general level 
it should be selected for excavation or trial by means of driven wells. The 
part with the most luxuriant herbage is likely to present water nearest the 
surface, while morning mists or swarming insects are said sometimes to 
mark the vicinity of water below. In a rough country the search for 
water is easier. Hills store up water, which seeks a low level at their 
base. Wells should be sunk at the foot of hills, not on a spur but at the 
lowest point ; and if there are any indications of a former watercourse, as 
near to it as possible. The junction of two long valleys will, especially if 
there is any narrowing, generally give water. The outlet of the longest 
valleys should be chosen, and if there is any trace of the junction of the 
two watercourses the well should be sunk at their union. In a long 
valley with a contraction, water should be sought for on the mountain side 
of the contraction. In digging at the side of a valley, the side with the 
highest hill should be chosen. Before commencing to dig, the country 
should be as carefully looked over as time and opportunity permit and the 
dip of the strata made out if possible. A little search will sometimes 
show which is the direction of fall from high grounds or a watershed. If 
moist ground only is reached, the insertion of a tube, pierced with holes, 
deep in the moist ground will sometimes cause a good deal of water to be 
collected. Near the sea, water is generally found ; even close to the sea it 
may be fresh if a large body of fresh water flowing from higher ground 
holds back the salt water. But usually wells sunk near the sea are brack- 
ish and it is necessary to sink several, passing farther and farther inland 
till the point is reached where the fresh water has the predominance. 

Transportation of Water. Under certain military conditions the 
carriage of water over considerable distances becomes necessary, creat- 
ing a problem as important from the military and sanitary standpoints 
as it is difficult of solution. Where transported in water-carts, barrels or 
other receptacles the supply is necessarily inadequate for all purposes, and 
is moreover exposed to the constant danger of pollution. In the British 
service special water-carts are employed during campaign. The French 
commonly use metallic barrels for this purpose, carried in wagons or by 
pack animals. During the autumn maneuvers in France in 1892, when 
an outbreak of cholera was anticipated, the experiment was tried of pro- 
viding sterile water in wagons, at certain points, for the use of troops. 
Sentinels were posted over all other available sources of supply to prevent 
their use. In Algeria, the French colonial forces use water-skins. To ac- 



WATER. 



Ill 



company the British force which went to Hasheen, during the operations 
in Egypt' thirteen thousand gallons of water were loaded on seven hundred 
camels. The water was carried in galvanised iron tanks, made in three 
sizes. Two twelve and one-half gallon tanks, exclusive of the saddle, 
weighed three hundred and sixteen pounds. This question of weight is a 
matter of serious importance in the transportation of water. One gallon 
weighs about ten pounds, and on this basis estimates may be made. 

In our service, twenty years ago, a supply of wholesome water on tap 
in the kitchens and lavatories of garrisoned posts was a luxury found only 
in certain permanent garrisons near large cities. At Western stations the 
water used was frequently hauled in wagons over long distances, and 
within the past ten years it was reported that the water used at Fort Sisse- 
ton, since abandoned, had all to be transported in wagons from points three 
and nine miles distant respectively. Of late years, however, the water 




-.- AfuJll ''</- 
"*. 

FIG. 18. Field Water-wagon Used in the British Service, with Malffnen Filter Attachment 

wagon has become practically a thing of the past, existing only at the small 
posts of Forts DuChesne and Eagle Pass. 

During the war with Spain, at several of the large volunteer camps in 
this country, the absence of a properly piped water supply necessitated the 
transportation of water from distant sources. This was usually accom- 
plished by the aid of wooden barrels, too often covered by dirty gunny- 
sacks. The results were highly unsatisfactory in all respects. Where re- 
ceptacles of such character must unavoidably be used, they should be pro- 
vided with tightly fitting covers and be daily scrubbed and scalded. If 
this precaution is not taken, the dirty receptacle, especially in warm 
weather, will promptly contaminate water originally pure. Inspection of 
the source from which such water is derived, and the manner in which 
loading and handling are performed, should be frequently made. * A wisp 
of clean grass or hay, or something floating on the surface of the water, 
will prevent splashing. Where a supply of pure water is sufficient only 
for drinking and an additional supply of an inferior quality is provided for 
other purposes, great care and constant oversight on the part of officers are 
required to ensure that each grade of water is pmjierly utilized by troops. 
It need scarcely be said that a piped water supply for all garrisoned posts 
is a fundamental sanitary necessity. 



112 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

For summer camps of mobilization and instruction, where surface pipes 
can be employed without danger of freezing, pipe lines for the supply and 
distribution of water can readily be put down, this procedure implying but 
a small amount of labor and comparatively slight expense. Beckurts states 
that five or six inch pipe can be laid at the rate of a mile a day by a gang 
of twelve men, and that a four-inch pipe can be laid fifty miles in a day 
by a gang of one thousand unskilled laborers; provided the pipe be first 
delivered along the line where needed and the country to be traversed 
presents no unusual difficulties to the engineer. If necessary, as in desert 
campaigns, pipes may even be laid by advancing troops at the rate of eight 
or ten miles daily. Such pipes should be laid in successive curves the 
plane of the curves being parallel to the surface of the ground to allow 
for expansion and contraction due to variation of temperature and to permit 
of settling without breakage. Where the supply of water by means of 
gravity is not possible a small pumping engine is necessary. To pump 
thirty-six thousand gallons of water in twenty-four hours against a press- 
ure of one thousand pounds per square inch would require an improved 




FIG. 19. Beady Means of Transporting Water in Camps. 



pump of about seven thousand five hundred pounds weight with a thirty 
horse-power engine. The total weight of such a pumping plant need not 
exceed thirteen thousand five hundred pounds, the fuel consumption being 
about two hundred pounds of coal per hour. 

For semi-fixed camps or encampments of instruction or mobilization, 
it is evident that the selection and retention of camp sites in close prox- 
imity to the water-supply are by no means absolutely necessary. By the 
use of pipe lines of no very great length, damp and unhealthful locations 
may readily be avoided and the practical difficulties in the way of a fre- 
quent change of camping grounds, over short distances, are largely over- 
come. There is no reason why the location of all encampments of the 
above character, at least within the limits of the United States, should not 
be determined largely by the salubrity of the site itself, and to a consid- 
erable degree irrespective of the immediate vicinity of the source of water- 
supply. This is a practical sanitary question which has received too little 
attention from military authorities. 

For permanent garrisons, all water mains should be made of cast iron. 
Where placed on soft or made ground they should be kid on a bed of 
cement or concrete to prevent cracking by settling, and should also be pro- 
tected from contact with brick or plaster rubbish containing lime, which 
is liable to corrode the pipe. Where laid under roads they should be 



WATER. 11: , 

bridged over to avoid damage by heavy traffic. The mains should U- 
kept at least three feet below the surface of the ground, in warm or tea- 
perate climates, to secure an equable temperature, and under all circum- 
stances they should be kid well below the frost line. Where long lengths 
of iron pipe are employed it is usually necessary to provide expansion boxes 
In laying large cast-iron mains the joints are made tight by packing them 
with yarn and then running in molten lead, afterward driving this home 
with an iron caulking tool; care is required that none of the yarn is allowed 
to get inside the main, and as little should be used in each joint as possible. 
Water passing through very long mains may become contaminated through 
the decay of the yarn used in the joints. For many reasons it is desirable 
to tar or otherwise protect all mains internally in the prevention of rust ; 
and for this purpose Smith's process is excellent, the pipes being coated' 
internally with a form of black enamel, while hot, immediately after cast- 
ing. Owing to the large amount of oxygen present in very soft water, rust 
will frequently form in masses that greatly diminish the discharge from the 
pipes. Difficulties frequently present themselves in laying long mains, 
owing to the contour of the ground, and levels in all cases must first be 
carefully taken. No loss of head will arise through the pij>es following the 
contour line, provided they do not rise above the level of a line drawn from 
the highest to the lowest point the so-called hydraulic mean gradient. 
Should they do so, air will accumulate at this point and loss of head will 
result. It should not be forgotten that a slight loss of head is caused by 
every bend, in proportion as it is more or less acute. In deciding the size 
and thickness of iron mains the following points liave to be taken into 
consideration: (1) The quantity of water required per minute; (2) the 
height of head; (3) the length of main for friction; (4) the height to 
which a jet of water is required to be thrown. The enormous loss of 
pressure by friction, in long lengths of small pipes, is a point too fre- 
quently disregarded. 

In certain instances the distribution of water is possible through gravity 
alone, but usually it is required to be raised to an elevated tank or reser- 
voir for subsequent distribution. For small detachments this may be 
done by wind-mills, but the supply so obtained is both small and precari- 
ous. Steam power is usually employed for this purpose in large isolated 
garrisons, and presents numerous advantages. For small commands, 
where the water supply is derived from a stream, a water ram is at once 
the simplest and most economical engine to use, provided the height to 
which the water is to be raised does not exceed some one hundred and fifty 
feet. With any height much above this, the amount of water wasted, in 
proportion to that raised, is excessive. A ram cannot be used with a less 
fall tlian twelve inches, and one greater than six feet is not desirable , 
owing to the strain and constant wear of the apparatus. A ram will not 
raise water to a greater height than that of twenty-five times the height of 
the fall given ; in practice it is usual to keep well within this limit. The 
fall necessary to raise a given quantity of water depends upon the volume 
available in the stream or reservoir, the friction due to the length of the 
delivery pipe and the height to which the water has to be raised. Bams 
are ordinarily capable of utilizing from fifty to eighty per cent, of the 
available power. 
8 



114 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Wherever troops are stationed in or near large centres of population 
the use of the water supply provided for the civil community will almost 
uniformly be of advantage. Experience, however, has shown that the 
water question at posts is not invariably settled by connection with the 
city supply, although satisfactory quality is ordinarily insured. At Van- 
couver Barracks the needs of the rapidly growing civil population, located 
on a lower level, produced a serious deficiency of water in the post, which 
was finally relieved by sinking an artesian well. At Jefferson Barracks, 
also, the quantity of water used in the city of St. Louis so reduced the 
pressure in the pipes at the post as to render the supply of water quite in- 
adequate at times. In the east, the larger posts nearly all draw their water 
supply from the mains of the civil communities to which they are adjacent. 



II. 

DRINKING-WATER IX ITS RELATION TO DISEASE; AND THE 
METHODS EMPLOYED FOB, THE DETERMINATION OF ITS 

QUALITY. 

While quantity is an accident which gives concern only in occasional 
cases, the quality of water used by troops is an essential which must receive 
consideration in each instance. Not only may the organic or inorganic 
substances held in suspension or solution in an impure water have an un- 
favorable influence, either mechanical or toxic, upon the bodily functions, 
but certain pathogenic micro-organisms find in it a vehicle by which an 
.entrance into the organism may be readily effected. Further, water fre- 
quently serves as a carrier to various animal parasites which, through their 
subsequent development, may seriously impair health. 

Diarrhoaa not uncommonly results from the mechanical irritation due 
to suspended earthy matter, and may follow the use of water containing 
large quantities of microscopical plant life. Water containing much 
hydrogen sulphide has a laxative effect; and the cathartic influence of 
waters containing much saline matter in solution as calcium nitrate and 
the sulphates of calcium and magnesium is well known. The, alkaline 
carbonates, however, generally favor constipation. Brackish water pro- 
duces diarrhoaa in a large number of persons, particularly those unaccus- 
tomed to its use. Lead, on the contrary, when present in solution, is 
usually provocative of constipation; and, when occurring in quantities 
larger than the proportion of one-twentieth of a grain per gallon, is ordi- 
narily followed by the well known symptoms which characterize lead- 
poisoning. Many outbreaks of lead-poisoning have been observed in 
foreign armies. Copper and zinc, when dissolved in water, may exert a 
markedly detrimental effect upon the organism. Dyspeptic symptoms 
may follow the use of water containing calcium, iron, and magnesian 
salts, and hard waters frequently induce renal or cystic irritation. 

Dysentery is produced by impure water containing certain micro- 
organisms which are now recognized as being specific, and the instances in 
which outbreaks of this disease have been traced to the use of water con- 
taminated with faecal discharges are very numerous. One form of dysentery 
is caused by the amoeba coli, the life history of which is not at present 



WATER. 115 

known, but which presumably finds favorable conditions for its existence 
and development in marshy soil and stagnant water. 

Diarrhoea is a common symptom resulting from the use of water con- 
taining a high proportion of bacterial life, the introduction of many varie- 
ties of micro-organisms into the intestinal tract being followed by diar- 
rhoea of more or less severity. Laveran states that dkrrhoea and dysentery 
have become much more infrequent among the French trooj* in Saigon 
since the use of Pasteur-Chamberland filters on that station; and the great 
decrease in the frequency of both these diseases among our troops during 
the war with Spain, as compared with figures for the Civil War, was un- 
doubtedly due to the great attention always given to securing a pure and 
uncontaminated water-supply. 

Water from marshes and stagnant pools has long teen considered to 
be a cause of malarial fevers in those who drink it. It is true that the 
mosquito is undoubtedly capable of transmitting the malarial plasmodium, 
but it has not been shown that inoculation by this insect is the only means 
of producing this affection. Much evidence has been accumulated during 
the past if the diagnoses be accepted as accurate to show that drinking 
water drawn from certain sources is productive of malaria. In this con- 
nection a case recorded by Boudin is instructive. This writer states that 
800 French soldiers, in good health, were embarked on three ships bound 
from Algiers to Marseilles ; all arriving at the latter jwrt on the same day. 
On two vessels there were 680 men, presenting not a single case of sick- 
ness among them. On the third vessel there embarked 120 men. Of the 
latter, 13 had died during the short voyage, and of the 107 survivors no 
less than 98 were affected with malarial fevers. Among the crew of the 
same ship not a case of malarial fever had occurred. On investigation, it 
was shown that the water on the first two ships was pure and good, while 
on the unhealthy ship the water had been taken from a marsh and had an 
unpleasant taste and odor. This water, however, had not been used by 
the crew of the ship. Such examples as the above, together with the many 
indisputable instances in which malarial disease has suddenly and markedly 
diminished 011 the substitution of a pure for a bad water-supply, render it 
difficult to believe that certain drinking-waters may not be without in- 
fluence in the causation of malaria. 

The dissemination of the specific micro-organism producing typhoid 
fever is ordinarily though by no means exclusively accomplished by 
means of water contaminated with the excreta! discharges of those suffer- 
ing with the disease. Many instances showing the connection between 
typhoid fever and an impure water-supply were recorded long before the 
existence of the typhoid bacillus was suspected, and later scientific in- 
vestigation has definitely proved what previous observation suggested. 
In practice, however, the actual demonstration of the specific germ in 
drinking-water, even when abundant proof exists as to its probable 
presence, is difficult of accomplishment. 

As to the viability of the typhoid bacillus under ordinary conditions 
there is some difference of opinion, probably to be accounted for by the 
antagonism which exists against this germ on the part of certain sapro- 
phytic micro-organisms commonly present in water. Mason states that it 
is generally admitted that the "disease germs found in water, rarely, if 



116 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ever, increase in number, even if the water be polluted, and they finally 
die." In this connection Mills writes as follows: '"The longest time 
we have been able to keep the germs of typhoid fever alive in Merri- 
mac water is about three weeks ; more commonly they disappear in one 
week. This short period of existence presents the probable reason why 
the fever may be readily carried down a river from city to city, while a 
polluted stream may enter one end of a large pond, whose waters are 
changed only after months, and a water-supply drawn from the opposite 
end may be continually free from the disease pollution." 

Cholera may be safely classed as one of the diseases commonly spread 
through the agency of specifically contaminated water; abundant proof to 
this effect having been collected, especially during more recent epidemics. 
A bacillus which was experimentally shown to produce typical choleraic 
symptoms was isolated by Koch from the water-tanks of an infected dis- 
trict in Calcutta, as well as from the excreta and intestinal contents of 
those dead from the disease ; and this bacillus is now accepted as being the 
cause of cholera. During the epidemic in Hamburg, in 1892, germs pos- 
sessing all the characteristics of the bacillus of Koch were several times 
found in the water-supply of the infected districts. In a moist condition 
this bacillus retains its vitality for months, although it is quickly de- 
stroyed by desiccation. Growth is arrested at 59 F. The life of the 
cholera bacillus in water is comparatively short; Wolffhugel stating that 
the germ may live two or three weeks in unsterilized tap water. Karlinski 
found the organism dead after two or three days in unsterilized spring 
water; while Giaxa observed that this bacillus quickly died in water con- 
taining many other bacteria. Gruber and Von Kerner showed that the 
length of viability of the cholera germ, in ordinary river water and that 
of the Vienna city supply, was about seven days. In addition to the 
production of cholera from drinking-water containing the cholera poison, 
it has been supposed that the use of impure water of any kind predisposes 
to cholera, though such water cannot actually produce the disease. If 
water acts in this way, it may be by causing a constant tendency to diar- 
rhoea or by impairing the powers of vital resistance. 

Water also serves as a vehicle for a large number of parasites ; this 
being particularly the case in warm countries, where the water-supply 
should be an object of great solicitude. The more common forms of 
tape-worm find then: way into the organism with the food; but the 
rarer Bothriocephalus latus may pass in with the drinking-water, since 
both embryo and eggs exist in river water. The ciliated embryo is said 
to maintain very active movement in water for several days ; at the end 
of which time it may lose its ciliary covering, and, not being able to move 
further, perishes or it may gain entrance into some organism and there 
undergo development. The eggs of Taenia echinococcus, discharged in 
the fecal matter of the dog, often find their way into sources of water- 
supply, whence they may be taken into man. The Distoma hepatfcum 
occurs commonly in the livers of animals notably sheep and cattle 
and is sometimes found in the liver in man, especially in the tropics. 
The eggs of this parasite are known to be developed in water, and hence 
the introduction of the living embryo by this medium would seem probable. 
The Ascaris lumbricoides, or round worm, appears sometimes to gain 



WATER. 



117 



entrance to the body by means of drinking-water. The ova of this para- 
site have been detected in water. The Trichocephalus dispar, in warm 
latitudes the commonest intestinal parasite of man, is known to flourish in 
warm, moist soil and water, and its introduction by means of the latter agent 
may be justly inferred. Oxyuris vermicularis, very common in children 
but comparatively rare in adults, is perhaps at times taken in with water; 
although the larva; are said to be destroyed by long immersion in this fluid.' 

The Ankylostoma duodenalis a cause of severe and often fatal 
anaemia, especially in warm countries is undoubtedly transmitted by 
means of water. The eggs, expelled with the fceces, are developed 
either on hot and moist ground or in water. Frequently ass<(ciated with 
the Ankylostoma duodenalis is the Rhabdonema intestinale, the eggs of 
which bear some resemblance to those of the former parasite but differ 
from them in being hatched in the human host. It is a common cause 
of tropical diarrho?a, and probably gains entrance to the body in the same 
manner as does the ankylostoma. The Dracunculus medinensis, or Guinea 
worm, has been shown to enter the Inxly of the cyclops or water-flea, 
which, as an intermediate host, may be taken into the human organism 
with drinking-water. The Bilharzia hitmatobia, very common in Egypt, 
was observed among Italian soldiers at Massowah, and is not rare in Tunis. 
While its mode of entrance into the system is unknown it is believed to 
be through the medium of water, since it is noted that in Egypt the dis- 
ease is extremely common in small towns in which the water is of poor 
quality, but is infrequent in the large cities where a tillered supply is pro- 
vided. Drinking-water also plays an essential part in the causation of 
tilariasis; the Filaria sanguiuis hominis, in embryonic form, undoubtedly 
gaining entrance to the body through the drinking of stagnant or polluted 
water in which it has been deposited by the mosquito, now regarded as the 
intermediate host. 

Small leeches are frequently present in water, jurticularly in warm 
climates, and these may fix on the pharynx or posterior nares when drink- 
ing directly from a stream. This accident is {particularly common among 
the French troops in Algeria; it being stated by Notter and Firth that 
during a march near Oran there were more than four hundred men in 
hospital at one time from this cause. 

QUALITY OF WATER AS INFERRED FROM PHYSICAL EXAMI- 
NATION. 

It is obvious from what has already been said that a proper estimation of 
the quality of a proposed water-supply is of the greatest importance in the 
military service ; particularly since troops, from the nature of their duties, 
are more frequently exposed to the danger of employing water from unde- 
sirable or contaminated sources than is the case in civil life. Hence an 
investigation as to the probable wholesomeness of water, as used by troupe 
or designated for their use is the first duty of the sanitary officer. In 
route camps, and the temporary strategic sites of active campaign, a chemical 
and bacteriological examination of the water-supply is manifestly imprac- 
ticable. The supply must be accepted as presented by nature, or if mani- 
festly impure, with such purification as can be hastily effected and under 



118 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

such circumstances the senses must ordinarily be the sole reliance in the 
determination of quality. Recourse to this primitive method of water ex- 
amination, however, when fortified by the results of experience and by a 
careful consideration of collateral circumstances, is extremely valuable in 
the absence of the more delicate methods of analysis ; and as far as the 
military sanitarian is concerned, it may be accepted, in selecting a source 
for a water-supply, that ordinary common sense on the spot, when used, 
is perhaps as valuable as scientific knowledge at a distance. 

Color. Large bodies of water, as lakes or rivers, are blue in tint when 
pure and wholesome. In small quantities, pure water, after sedimenta- 
tion, appears colorless ; but if viewed through a depth of two or three feet, 
as in a tall cylinder placed on a white background, a bluish tint is ac- 
quired. Many excellent waters are grayish, and a few as an instance, that 
of the Dismal Swamp, formerly much prized on board ship are distinctly 
brown. Greenish waters usually owe their color to vegetable matter, 
chiefly unicellular algse, and are ordinarily harmless. Yellow and light 
brown waters are most to be feared, as then* color is usually due to organic 
matter, too frequently sewage. These tints may, however, be due to iron 
salts, although in most cases the iron is precipitated from solution in the 
form of ferric oxide. 

Clearness. Where the water is of good quality it is usually trans- 
parent and limpid, but it frequently happens that water of otherwise ex- 
cellent character contains considerable earthy matter jn suspension. Such 
waters are readily clarified by sedimentation ; this process undoubtedly re- 
sulting, as already stated, in the mechanical carrying down of a consider- 
able proportion of the bacterial organisms present. Occasionally it hap- 
pens that water remains hazy or turbid even after standing for some time, 
the suspended matter in such case being in a state of very fine division. 

With reference to the influence of suspended mineral matter upon 
health there is some diversity of opinion. It is an unquestioned fact that 
very turbid water is habitually used by large communities with no demon- 
strable evil effects, but the preponderance of testimony goes to show that 
immunity is attained by continued use, and that the stranger in this re- 
spect is not upon the same plane of safety with the native. Parkes 
gives a typical instance of the effect of suspended material in water, as 
follows: "In 1868, the right wing of the Ninety-second Highlanders go- 
ing up the river Indus, suffered from diarrhoea from the use of the river 
water, which at that time was very muddy. The left wing of the same 
regiment used water from the same source, but precipitated the suspended 
matters with alum and had no diarrhoea. The right wing then adopted 
the same plan with like success." 

The transparency of a water is usually determined by the use of tall 
graduates ; the depth of such a water through which printed matter may 
be clearly read being compared with distilled water as a standard. Where 
the amount of cloudiness is small, the water may be placed in a flask and 
examined in a darkened space to which a single needle ray of light is ad- 
mitted; the finely suspended matter, which cannot be seen in a diffuse 
light, is thus rendered visible. 

After sedimentation has occurred, the nature of the deposit may be 
roughly judged of by the eye, as to whether it is mineral or vegetable, 



WATER. 

stained with iron, or the like. The larger living forms, such as anguil- 
lulae, water-fleas, leeches, etc., may also be detected but satisfactory ex- 
amination can be made only by the aid of the microscope. 

Lustre. Water which holds a considerable amount of oxygen or car- 
bon dioxide in solution is bright and sparkling, and thus the lustre of a 
water may be considered as an excellent indication of the degree of aera- 
tion. Dull waters are usually of inferior quality. 

Taste. The taste of a water is an uncertain indication of its purity. 
Any badly tasting water should ordinarily be rejected or purified before 
use ; but water containing a high proportion of animal organic matter and 
charged with bacterial life is often very palatable. Vegetable matter in 
stagnant water, if dead and decaying, usually imparts a disagreeable taste, 
but living plants, with few exceptions, exert little influence in this respect. 
As regards the proportion of mineral matters present, taste is deceptive 
and varies greatly with the individual. On an average, the mineral salts 
ordinarily found in water become perceptible to taste when they reach a 
strength of about one part in fifteen hundred. Iron, however, can be 
tasted when present in extremely minute proportions. The pleasant taste 
of good drinking-water is due entirely to the gases held in solution, water 
which is not well ae'rated being flat and unpalatable. 

Odor. Wholesome water will usually be odorless. Many surface 
waters, however, are crowded with the lower forms of animal and vege- 
table life; these, especially the algye, giving rise at certain seasons to odors 
variously described as "musty," "fishy," and the like. However objection- 
able these odors may be from an aesthetic standpoint, it has not been proven 
that they are productive of serious disease. When the small plants them- 
selves are swallowed "they act mechanically, perhaps like unripe fruit, when 
affecting the health at all, in causing diarrhoea ; but the filtered water is 
harmless." To appreciate the odor of a sample of water a partly filled 
flask should be tightly corked, warmed to slightly above blood heat and 
well shaken the air being inhaled at the moment of removing the cork. 
Sometimes elevation of the temperature of the water to boiling best de- 
velops the odor. Very fair results in the field can be obtained with an 
ordinary drinking-glass partially filled, closed with the palm of the hand 
and well shaken. On smelling the wet palm, the odor is at once percept- 
ible. Where the odor is faecal in character, or is distinctly putrefactive, 
the water should be rejected. 

Other Considerations. The character of the plant life growing in a 
water affords assistance in making a rapid estimate of the potability and 
quality of the latter. Water-cress and green algie grow only in good water ; 
reeds, lilies and mint indicate water of only moderate quality. As a gen- 
eral thing, cat-tail rushes are found in water unfit for drinking purposes. 
The species of fish present afford a certain indication as to character; trout 
especially require extremely well-aerated and pure water for their exist- 
ence, while pike, gar and catfish thrive in muddy, sluggish and often con- 
taminated streams. Horses and mules frequently refuse to drink water 
which is of poor quality or, if they drink, do so sparingly and with 
manifest reluctance.. The dog, on the other hand, readily drinks water 
which is obviously unwholesome. 

Although the physical characters can necessarily give but a general 



120 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

idea of the wholesomeness of water, they are extremely important when 
no more exhaustive examination can be made. If a water be colorless, 
clear, free from suspended matter, of a brilliant lustre, devoid of smell or 
taste, except such as is recognized to be the characteristic of good potable 
water, and especially if its source and surroundings appear to be free from 
organic contamination, it may, in the large majority of cases, be properly 
pronounced good and wholesome; while, according as it deviates from 
these characters, the sanitary officer will be proportionately justified in re- 
garding it with suspicion. In permanent camps or garrisons a pure water- 
supply is so essential to the health of the command that it should be 
invariably secured even at the expense of other points less hygienically 
important. Questions of transportation and finance should invariably be 
subordinate to a matter so vitally affecting the health that is, the effi- 
ciency of the command. 

CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF WATER. 

As already stated, the chemical examination of water is quite imprac- 
ticable under the conditions of field service. In garrisons of any standing, 
however, chemical analyses of the water-supply should be made whenever 
proper laboratory apparatus can be obtained ; and these examinations should 
be repeated at suitable intervals, or whenever a contamination of the sup- 
ply is presumed to have been possible. Formerly, when the great majority 
of military posts were established in healthful and sparsely settled regions, 
the water-supply was almost uniformly of good character ; and where doubt 
as to quality subsequently arose, it was the approved custom to forward 
samples of such water for expert examination in the laboratory of the sur- 
geon-general's office. With the new conditions of military service under 
which our troops are now engaged in distant, isolated and perhaps in- 
salubrious stations in the tropics and in Alaska the chemical examination 
of water will necessarily be much more frequently required; and, further, 
the performance of these analyses will properly devolve upon the sanitary 
officers with troops, since it is obvious that the shipment of water samples 
to Washington would be a matter by no means easy of accomplishment, 
and in the end capable of yielding only imperfect and unsatisfactory re- 
sults. For these reasons the following outline of water analysis has been 
inserted for the guidance of the sanitary officer care having been taken to 
select the more simple methods of analysis and to include only such as are 
possessed of practical value for the military service. 

Properly speaking, the chemical analysis of water is really not an 
analysis at all, but is a series of experiments undertaken with a view to 
assist the judgment in determining the quality of a supply. The methods 
of conducting these experiments are largely influenced by the individual 
preference of the analyst, and are far from being uniform and always ca- 
pable of comparison ; thus introducing elements of confusion where several 
examinations of the same water are made by different individuals. Some 
of the substances reported as albuminoid ammonia do not exist ready 
formed in the water, and are but the imperfect experimental measures of 
objectionable organic constituents of which present lack of knowledge pre- 
vents a direct estimation. Chemical analysis merely indicates the possi- 
bility of danger, by showing the quantity of food material present in a 



WATEE. 

water and whether it occurs in sufficient amount to support a vigorous 
growth of bacterial life; it also shows the presence of material which, un- 
der certain circumstances, may be looked upon as foreign, and which, 
under such circumstances, has come, through long experience, to be regarded 
as associated with dangerous contamination. Chemical analysis, therefore, 
is merely a guide as to the general character of water, and whether its use 
in liable to produce disease ; reliance being had on bacteriological tests for 
direct information as regards specific affections and their dissemination by 
water. One method of investigation is supplementary to the other. Both 
taken together afford the test basis from which to draw safe conclusions; 
bearing in mind that while it is possible that a water which is extremely 
pure from a chemical standpoint may serve as a vehicle for pathogenic 
micro-organisms, in practice this is rarely the case. 

The Water Sample. As emphasised by Mason, from whose work 
on water analysis much of the following matter is derived, it is extremely 
important that the analyst should himself secure the sample of water to 
be examined ; or at least that all information as to its source should be 
furnished. If this be not done the formulation of a proper opinion as to 
potability, based on the analytical results alone, may be extremely difficult, 
if not impossible. A high degree of chlorine may imply either the in- 
filtration of sewage or merely the vicinity of salt water; while much free 
ammonia, usually pointing to contamination from animal sources, is nor- 
mally present in water from artesian wells. Hence, however faithfully 
the various chemical tests may be applied to the question of the fitness or 
unfitness of a certain water for drinking purposes, there is nothing upon 
which greater stress should be laid than a thorough knowledge of the 
source of supply. 

For securing samples of water, large glass-stoppered bottles, previously 
well cleaned and rinsed, are preferable. When these cannot be obtained, 
a new two-gallon demijohn, fitted with a new soft cork, should be em- 
ployed. After thorough rinsing, the vessel is filled to overflowing so as to 
displace the air, and is then completely emptied. Where the water is to 
be drawn from pipes, a sufficient quantity to empty the local lateral should 
be allowed to run to waste; if from a stream or lake, the sample should be 
taken some distance from shore, the mouth plunged well below the surface 
before the removal of the cork and the vessel submerged about a foot dur- 
ing filling, so as to avoid surface scum. The receptacle should be filled 
nearly full, be tightly corked and if to be transported any distance have 
a piece of cloth tied firmly over the neck to hold the cork in place. In the 
latter case, the bottle should be plainly marked with the date, a descrip- 
tion of the surroundings and the soil upon which the water rests, to- 
gether with a summary of the immediate sources of possible contamina- 
tion. Having secured the sample, analysis should be at once begun, since 
water is liable to rapid changes during storage ; the organic matter, as 
shown in a report of the Massachusetts Board of Health, ordinarily decay- 
ing in about seven days at room temperature. Such organic matter should 
not be removed by filtration or precipitation, but the water should be pre- 
sented for examination in the condition in which it is consumed. For 
this reason, if sediment be present it should be equally diffused by shaking 
before analysis. 



122 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

After determination of the physical properties of the water, in the 
manner already described, the chemical examination is begun, usually by 
estimation of the total solids. This is done as follows : 

Total Solids. By means of a pipette 100 c.c. of the water is 
measured into a weighed platinum dish. Evaporation is carried on to 
dryness on a water-bath, preferably of porcelain and filled with distilled 
water to prevent the deposit of impurities on the under side of the platinum 
dish. When dry, the dish and contents are placed in an air-bath and the 
temperature is maintained in the latter at 105 C. for half an hour; the dish 
being then cooled in a desiccator over sulphuric acid and weighed. The 
process of drying and weighing is continued, at intervals of half an hour, 
until a constant weight is obtained. The final weight, less the known 
weight of the dish, represents the total solids. This weight multiplied by 
ten gives the weight of solids per liter, which, expressed in milligrammes, 
represents parts per million. 

This residue may be ignited, moistened with carbonic acid water and 
again ignited and weighed. Smart conducts the ignition at gentle .heat, 
and says of the value of the procedure : " The blackening during the process 
is of more interest than mere loss of weight. No matter how few parts 
are lost, if the lining of the capsule blackens all over, and the carbon is 
afterward dissipated with difficulty, the water is to be viewed as sus- 
picious." The "loss on ignition," determined by weight of the dish and 
contents after heating to redness, is usually reported. 

While the standard as to the amount of total solids which an un- 
polluted water should contain is naturally elastic, it has been recommended 
by Smart that the limits be determined as follows: Safe limit, 300; to 
be condemned, 1,000. 

Hardness. This is to be divided into permanent and temporary hard- 
ness ; the former being due to the presence of soluble salts of calcium and 
magnesium held in solution by the water itself, while temporary hardness 
is caused by carbonates of calcium and magnesium held in solution by 
carbonic acid present in the water. Boiling such a water expels the carbon 
dioxide, whereupon the latter salts separate from solution. Ordinarily the 
total hardness alone is required to be determined ; this being accomplished 
with a sufficient degree of accuracy by Clark's soap test. In this test the 
sodium stearate, NaC.gH^O,,, in soap, coming in contact with the cal- 
cium carbonate or sulphate in hard water, is immediately decomposed 
with formation of insoluble calcium stearate according, in the first in- 
stance, to the following equation : CaCO, -f 2 NaC^^O, = Ca(C lg H, 6 O a ), 
+ Na,CO, 

In estimating the hardness, advantage is taken of this reaction. A 
solution of soap is prepared by dissolving 10 gm. of castile soap shavings 
in one liter of dilute alcohol, made up one-third with distilled water. This 
solution, if not clear, is filtered. To standardize it, 1 gm. of pure calcium 
carbonate is dissolved in a little hydrochloric acid, the latter being then neu- 
tralized with a slight excess of ammonium hydrate and the whole diluted to 
one liter with distilled water. Each cubic centimeter of this solution con- 
tains an amount of calcium salt equivalent to 1 mgm. of calcium carbonate. 
Of this solution 10 c.c. is then placed in a florence flask of 250 c.c. capac- 
ity and the volume made up to 100 c.c. with distilled water; the prepared 



WATER. 12 3 

soap solution being run in little by little, shaking after each addition, 
until a lather is farmed which persists for five minutes. Not more than 
half a cubic centimeter of soap solution should be added at any one time. 
The amount of soap solution used should be noted ; the experiment re- 
peated with 100 c.c. of distilled water and the quantity of soap solution 
required again noted. The subtraction of the last quantity from the first 
gives the amount of soap required to neutralize the calcium salt alone ; the 
value of 1 c.c. soap solution, in terms of calcium carbonate, being thus 
readily determined, as shown in the following example: 8.2 c.c. soap solu- 
tion are required for 10 c.c. of CaCO, solution -j- 90 c.c. water. 0.6 c.c. 
soap solution are required for 100 c.c. water. Hence 7.6 c.c. soap 
solution are required for 10 mgm. CaCO, only; 1 c.c. soap solution thus 
corresponding to 1.316 mgm. CaCO,. It should be remembered that 
soap solutions are not permanent and hence require to be standardized 
frequently. 

For the determination of the hardness of a water, 100 c.c. of the 
sample to be examined should be placed in a 250 c.c. florence flask, the 
standard soap solution being titrated in according to the method already 
described. The amount of soap solution required is then read off from the 
burette, multiplied by the determined value for 1 c.c. of soap solution, and 
this again multiplied by 10. The result obtained expresses the hardness, 
in terms of CaCO,, in parts per million of water. 

Where the determination of both temporary and permanent hardness 
is required, the soap test should be made both before and aftei boiling. 
Where the hardness due to salts of magnesia is required separately, 
the water is shaken with a little solid ammonium oxalate, the precipitate 
of calcium oxalate is removed on a dry filter and the hardness of the fil- 
trate determined. Should a water be so hard as to require for the 1 00 
c.c. a greater amount of soap solution than suffices to saponify 23 mgm. 
CaCO,, better results are obtained by diluting with an equal bulk of pure 
water, since too heavy a precipitate appears to interfere with the process of 
lathering. The average harclness of good waters is given by the British 
Rivers Pollution Commission as follows: I Iain. 3; upland surface, 54; 
deep well, 250; spring, 185; rivers, 50 to 150. 

Chlorine. This element is ordinarily present in water in the form of 
common salt, washed from the air or soil or added as one of the constitu- 
ents of sewage. Under ordinary conditions, away from the sea or salt- 
bearing strata, a high proportion of chlorine ordinarily indicates sewage 
contamination. The term "high proportion* applied to chlorine is rel- 
ative, and should be considered as comparative with regard to local waters 
of known impurity, since the normal proportion of chlorine varies greatly 
in different districts. 

The determination of chlorine is simple and practically requires but 
two solutions. Of these, one is usually made by dissolving 6 gm. of potas- 
sium monochromate in 100 c.c. of distilled water. The second solution is 
one of silver nitrate, made by adding 4.7887 gm. of AgNO, to a liter of 
distilled water. The potassium monochromate solution is used purely as an 
indicator; its value in this respect depending on the fact that if to a solu- 
tion of a chloride, which has been colored yellow by a little chromate 
solution, a solution of silver nitrate be added, white silver chloride will 



124 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

be produced until the last trace of chlorine be disposed of, when red silver 
chromate begins to appear. 

The process consists in measuring 25 c.c. of the water sample into a 
porcelain capsule or glass beaker, the latter if used being placed on 
a piece of white paper to secure a suitable background. The amount of 
water to be used varies with the proportion of chlorine present. If the 
first test shows the proportion of chlorine to be high, 25 c.c. will be suffi- 
cient; but if the chlorine be low, it may be advisable to evaporate 100 c.c. 
or more down to about 25 c.c. Two or three drops of the chromate 
solution are then added, rendering the water distinctly yellow; and then, 
from a burette, the silver nitrate solution is run in, drop by drop, stirring 
after each addition. The red silver chromate which is at first formed 
will disappear as long as any chlorine is available. The titration is stopped 
as soon as the red tint is permanent. As 1 c.c. of the standard silver 
solution equals 1 mgm; of chlorine, the number of cubic centimeters re- 
quired by the sample indicates the number of milligrammes of chlorine in 
the sample of water measured off. These figures are multiplied by the 
proper factor to reduce to suitable terms of comparison in parts per million. 

As already stated, the normal chlorine varies with locality ; and hence 
a knowledge of the source and surroundings from which the sample of 
water is taken is of the greatest importance in determining the signifi- 
cance of the proportion of chlorine. Definite* standards in this respect 
cannot therefore be given. It should be noted, however, that pure rain 
water ordinarily contains from 1.1 to 1.6 parts. Frankland fixes the per- 
missible limit of chlorine, under ordinary circumstances, at 50. parts; but 
this figure, by most observers, is considered to be much too high. 

Organic Material. There is no direct method by which the amount 
of organic matter present in a water can be determined ; and it is there- 
fore necessary to utilize in its estimation the known tendency of organic 
matter to decompose into simpler bodies, as nitrites, nitrates and ammonia. 
Although no better evidence as to the presence of organic matter can be 
imagined than that based upon the nitrogen resulting from its decomposi- 
tion, still a practical objection exists in the fact that all harmful organic 
matter is not necessarily nitrogenous. It is further obvious that no chem- 
ical process can determine whether existing organic matter is living or 
dead ; or whether, if living, it is injurious or not. From the microscopical 
size of bacterial life it is seen at once that considerable numbers of micro- 
organisms cannot by themselves materially increase the organic ammonia ; 
but as they are nearly always associated with an organic nutritive me- 
dium, the presence in excess of organic material at once justifies suspicion 
as to the purity of the water under examination. Viewed from this stand- 
point, an estimation of the proportion and form in which nitrogen occurs 
in drinking-water becomes of the greatest importance. 

Nitrites. For the determination of nitrogen as nitrites, probably 
existing as a result of oxidation of organic nitrogen, the second method 
proposed by Griess is most satisfactory. This depends upon the red col- 
oration which results whenever sulphanilic acid and naphthylamine hy- 
drochloride are added to an acidified solution of nitrite. The test is ex- 
tremely delicate and is said to be capable of distinguishing one part of 
nitrogen as nitrous acid in one thousand million parts of water. The sul- 



WATEE. 125 

phanilic acid is used in aqueous solution, 1 gm. being dissolved in 100 c.c. 
of hot water. In making up the solution of naphthylamine hydrochlor- 
ide, 0.5 gm. of the salt, is boiled for ten minutes in 100 c.c. of water, 
the volume of the latter being kept constant. The solution is preserved 
in a glass-stoppered bottle, a little pulverized carbon being added to de- 
colorize the solution. 

A standard solution of sodium nitrite is also required. This is often 
prepared from the silver salt, which may be made as follows : To a cold 
solution of commercial sodium or potassium nitrite, a solution of silver 
nitrate is added as long as a precipitate appears. The liquid is decanted 
and the precipitate washed twice with cold water, and then dissolved in 
boiling water. This hot solution is concentrated and the silver nitrite 
crystallized out. It is then dried in the dark at ordinary temperatures, 
and stored. When required for use, 0.22 gm. of the dry silver nitrite is 
weighed out and then dissolved in hot water. The salt is decomposed 
with a slight excess of sodium chloride, the solution is cooled and diluted 
to one liter. After the silver chloride has precipitated out, 5 c.c. of the 
clear solution are removed and diluted to one liter. This second dilution, 
which is the standard solution to be used, contains an amount of nitrite, 
per cubic centimeter, equivalent to 0.001 mgm. of nitrogen. 

Smart prefers to make up the standard solution of sodium nitrite by 
preparing a weak solution of commercial sodium nitrite, of unknown 
strength, and then by the addition of a standard solution of potassium 
permanganate, converting the nitrite into the nitrate. The amount of 
oxygen required for the process is carefully observed and from this the 
quantity of the nitrite in the solution is calculated. 

For the determination of the nitrites, 100 c.c. of the water to be examined 
is placed in a Nessler jar and acidified with a single drop of concentrated 
hydrochloric acid. Then 1 c.c. of the sulphanilic acid solution is added ; 
followed by 1 c.c. of the solution of hydrochloride of naphthylamine. The 
solution is then mixed with a glass rod, covered with a watch glass and 
set aside for thirty minutes. At the same time other Nessler jars are 
prepared, containing known amounts of the standard solution of sodium 
nitrite and diluted up to the 100 c.c. mark with pure distilled water, add- 
ing the reagents as above. At the end of thirty minutes the shade of the 
pink color formed is examined, and, by comparing the unknown with the 
known an accurate determination of the amount of nitrogen present as 
nitrites may be made. 

Nitrites should be regarded with suspicion if found in ground or sur- 
face waters. Leeds' standard for American rivers places the permissible 
impurity at 0.003. The presence of nitrites in spring and deep well 
waters is said by Frankland to be "absolutely without significance, for al- 
though in these cases they are generated by the deoxidation of nitrates, 
this deoxidation is brought about either by the action of reducing mineral 
substances, as ferrous oxide, or by that of organic matter which has either 
been embedded for ages or, if dissolved in water, has been subjected to ex- 
haustive filtration." 

Nitrates. The quantity of nitrates in water assumes importance from 

a sanitary standpoint since these salts presumably represent a higher stage 
in the oxidation of nitrogenous organic matter. Mason states that nitrates 



126 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

are more liable to indicate putrefaction of animal than vegetable tissue ; 
not only because of the greater quantity of nitrogen present in the former 
but also on account of its more ready decomposition. Nitrogen in the soil 
is increased by the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen by the roots of certain 
plants such as peas the process being aided by bacterial action. Such 
nitrogen eventually enters the ground-water ; and hence a knowledge of the 
local normal for nitrates is of advantage in estimating the purity of well 
waters. Surface and ground waters of good quality are low in nitrates, for 
the reason that such material is eagerly appropriated by growing vegetation. 

The following method for the quantitative determination of nitrates is 
advised by Mason; the method depending upon the yellow color, due to 
ammonium picrate, which results from the addition of ammonium hydrate 
to tri-nitro-phenol ; the latter depending for its production, in water analysis, 
on the addition of phenol-sulphonic acid to water containing nitrates. 
The intensity of the color due to ammonium picrate in a sample of water 
is compared with sample colors of known strength, and the quantity of 
nitrates thus determined. The presence of chlorides interferes with the 
process, resulting in readings below the truth ; and hence the quantity of 
chlorine in the sample of water under investigation should be previously 
determined, and an appropriate volume of standardized sodium chloride 
solution added to each evaporation of standard potassium nitrate solution, 
so that the water itself and the nitrate solutions with which it is com- 
pared shall all contain the same quantity of chlorine. 

The phenol-sulphonic acid solution is composed as follows : Pure and 
concentrated sulphuric acid, 148 c.c. ; distilled water, 12 c.c. ; pure 
phenol, 24 gm. 

The standard potassium nitrate solution is made by dissolving 0.7221 
gm. pure KNO S in 1 liter of distilled water; 100 c.c. of this solution 
being diluted to 1 liter with distilled water. This weaker solution, which 
is the standard employed, contains 0.01 mgm. of nitrogen as nitrate in 
each cubic centimeter. 

A standard sodium chloride solution is made by dissolving 1.6497 gm. 
pure NaCl (preferably made from metallic sodium) in 1 liter of distilled 
water. Each cubic centimeter of this solution will contain 1 mgm. of 
chlorine. 

For the determination of nitrates, 100 c.c. of the water is evaporated to 
dryness on a water bath; 0.1 c.c. of sodium carbonate solution made by 
dissolving 5 gm. of pure Na s CO 3 in 30 c.c. of distilled water being pre- 
viously added to prevent loss from volatilization of nitric acid. After 
evaporation, the residue is thoroughly moistened with 2 c.c. of the sulphonic 
acid; and then an excess of ammonium hydrate about 15 c.c. is added. 
The solution is then made up with distilled water to 100 c.c. in a Nessler 
jar; and the depth of color compared with those produced by operating 
upon different amounts of the standard nitrate solution, which have been 
evaporated and treated under precisely similar conditions. This latter re- 
quirement is of the greatest importance in insuring reliable results. 

As to the allowable amount of nitrates which may be present in pot- 
able water, opinions vary. Mallet determined the average in waters known 
to be pure at 0.42; while in waters believed to be objectionable he found 
the average to be as high as 7.239. 



WATER. 127 

Ammonia. The free ammonia occurring in water represents the 
ammonia combined with carbpnic, nitric or other acids, and also what may 
be derived from urea or other easily decomposable nitrogenous substances, 
if they are present. Free ammonia in artesian wells is often excessive 
under conditions that render animal contamination an impossibility ; and 
even rain water, collected after periods of long drought, will often exhibit 
quantities calculated to mislead the observer. Wells sunk in ferruginous 
regions often present a high degree of free ammonia since the oxide of 
iron, in the absence of oxygen, affords favorable conditions for the develop- 
ment of ammonia. The amount of free ammonia in ground waters of good 
quality is, however, usually low ; and in surface waters the influence of 
growing vegetation in reducing the quantity of free ammonia is very great. 
The tendency is for free ammonia to disappear upon keeping. From ob- 
servations made upon the appearance and disappearance of nitrites there 
seems to be little doubt but that this diminution in free ammonia is to be 
accounted for by a process of nitrification; nitrites being formed at the 
expense of the ammonia. 

For determination of the free and albuminoid ammonia it is necessary 
to have the following solutions : 

(1) Nessler's solution. This is made by dissolving 16 gm. of mercuric 
chloride (HgCl,) in about half a liter of pure ammonia-free water. There 
are then dissolved 35 gm. of potassium iodide in about 200 c.c. of pure 
ammonia-free water. The first solution is then poured into the second until 
a faint show of excess is indicated. To this, 160 gm. of solid potassium 
hydrate (KOH) is added and the whole diluted to one liter. Finally more 
mercuric chloride solution is added until a red precipitate of mercuric iodide 
begins to be permanent. This excess of mercuric iodide should not be 
filtered from the solution which should have a pale straw color but 
should be allowed to remain on the bottom of the vessel. 

Nessler's solution gives a distinct brownish -yellow color with the most 
minute traces of ammonia or ammonium salts. If the quantity of am- 
monia be considerable, a brown precipitate will appear. 

(2) An alkaline solution of .potassium permanganate, made by dissolv- 
ing 200 gm. of solid potassium hydrate (KOH) and 8 gm. of crystallized 
potassium permanganate (K.MnpJ in 1,250 c.c. of ammonia-free water. 
This quantity is then boiled down to 1 liter. 

(3) A sodium carbonate solution, in which 50 gm. of the pure salt are 
dissolved in 300 c.c. of ammonia-free water. 

(4) A standard ammonia solution. This is made by dissolving 1.5706 
gm. of pure dry ammonium chloride in 500 c.c. of ammonia-free water; 
and again diluting 5 c.c. of this solution to 500 c.c. with ammonia-free 
water. The second solution is the standard employed and represents a 
strength of 0.01 mgm. of NH, per cubic centimeter. 

For the determination of free ammonia the following procedure is em- 
ployed : A one-quart glass tubulated retort is attached to a Liebig's con- 
denser by means of rubber tubing; the neck of the retort being made to 
project well into the condensing tube. In the retort are placed 200 c.c. of 
ammonia-free water, and 10- c.c. of the sodium carbonate solution added. 
Two 50 c.c. jarfuls of water are distilled off, Nesslerizing the second to in- 
sure that no ammonia remains in the retort as a result of imperfect cleans- 



128 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE, 

ing of the apparatus. To the contents of the retort are now added 500 c.c. 
of the water to be examined. The resulting distillate is" received in 50 c.c. 
Nessler jars; the rate of distillation being so managed as to allow about 
fifteen minutes for the filling of each 50 c.c. jar. Of the Nessler solution 
2 c.c. are now added to each jarful, and the distillation and testing of each 
separate portion continued until no reaction for ammonia is given after 
five minutes. Usually four portions of 50 c.c. each are sufficient to carry 
off all free ammonia. From a small burette definite amounts of the 
standard ammonia solution, as given above, are measured into several clean 
Nessler jars. Each is diluted to 50 c.c. with ammonia-free water, and 2 
c.c. of the Nessler solution added. After standing five minutes the depth 
of tints produced are compared with the distillates already treated with the 
Nessler solution. With a little practice it is easy to produce colors corre- 
sponding to those existing in the distillates by properly varying the quan- 
tities of standard ammonia solution used ; and thereby a most accurate 
knowledge of the quantity of ammonia existing in the water, either free 
or as an ammonium salt, is obtained. The final result is obtained by 
adding together the several quantities of ammonia found to exist in the 
different distillates yielding a reaction with the Nessler solution it being 
remembered that 1 c.c. of the standard ammonia solution corresponds to 
0.01 mgm. of NH S and the total multiplied by 2 gives the quantity for 
an entire liter, or parts per million. 

Albuminoid ammonia is determined as follows : The residue remaining 
after the distillation for free ammonia is thrown out and the retort thoroughly 
rinsed; after which 200 c.c. of ammonia-free water and 50 c.c. of the alka- 
line permanganate solution are placed in the condenser. Distillation is 
then continued until three 50 c.c. jarfuls have passed over, the third one 
being Nesslerized in order to insure freedom from ammonia. Half a liter 
of the water under examination is then added and the distillation con- 
tinued, the successive 50 c.c. portions of the distillate being Nesslerized as 
in the determination of free ammonia. The distillation is continued as 
long as is compatible with the safety of the retort, unless the ammonia 
sooner ceases to be evolved. From the total ammonia thus determined, 
the amount of free ammonia should be subtracted the difference being 
the albuminoid ammonia. The calculation is entirely similar to that of 
free ammonia, as already detailed. 

According to Smart, the rate at which the ammonia is evolved is of an 
importance at least as great as the total amount of the same, he stating 
that : " Gradual evolution of albuminoid ammonia indicates the presence of 
organic matter, whether of vegetable or animal origin, in a fresh, or com- 
paratively fresh condition; while rapid evolution indicates that the organic 
matter is in a putrescent or decomposing condition." 

Notter and Firth place the average amount of free ammonia in^ pure 
water at 0.01 per million; in usable waters it should not exceed 0.05. 
In drinking-waters of good quality the albuminoid ammonia should not 
exceed 0.10 to 0.15 per million. 

For water analyses, the preparation of ammonia-free distilled water is 
a matter of vital importance. This water should be prepared with great 
care, in a room free from the usual laboratory fumes and, in fact, the en- 
tire chemical examination of water should be carried out elsewhere than 



WATER. 129 

in a general laboratory. The preparation of ammonia-free water consists 
in distilling good spring water in a large two gallon retort, collecting suc- 
cessive portions of the distillate in 50 c.c. Nessler jars and adding 2 c.c. 
of the Nessler solution to each. The distillation and testing should be 
carried on until no reaction with the Nessler solution is obtainable after 
standing for five minutes. The remaining water may then be distilled off 
and collected for use ; care being taken not to push the distillation too far 
on account of danger to the retort and the possible production of ammonia 
from decomposition of the organic material remaining in the bottom. 

Oxygen-Consuming Capacity. Although by itself a determination 
of oxygen-consuming power is of little value as a measure of the organic 
impurity of a water sample, this determination of its affinity for oxygen, 
when taken in conjunction with other analytical facts, is often of material 
aid in forming an opinion as to the quality of any particular water. Much 
of the organic matter present in water is capable of oxidation ; but since 
the ease of oxidation bears no constant ratio to the nature of the organic 
material, its estimation affords no very reliable index to the real pollution 
present. In all the efforts to judge the oxidizable organic matter, advan- 
tage is taken of the fact that, in the presence of most organic substances, 
permanganate of potassium freely parts with its oxygen until all the per- 
manganate has been reduced to hydrated manganese dioxide. It must be 
borne in mind, however, that besides organic matter, iron salts, nitrites and 
hydrogen sulphide will reduce permanganate of potassium. Hence, where 
these latter are present, due allowance must be made. Peaty waters also 
consume large quantities of oxygen, and thus the results should always be 
considered in connection with other analytical data and the source of the 
water. 

The solutions required, according to the method recommended by Smart, 
are as follows : 

(1) A standard solution of potassium permanganate, made by dissolving 
0.3952 gm. of the salt in 1 liter of distilled water. Each cubic centi- 
meter of this solution should contain 0.1 mgm. of oxygen available for oxi- 
dation. 

(2) A standard solution of oxalic acid, made by dissolving 0.7875 gm. of 
the crystallized acid in 1 liter of distilled water. This solution, if titrated 
against the permanganate solution, while hot and in the presence of sul- 
phuric acid, should correspond to it, cubic centimeter for cubic centimeter. 
Ten cubic centimeters of the oxalic acid solution, diluted with 200 c.c. of 
pure water and 10 c.c. of the dilute sulphuric acid, should be titrated, 
boiling, with the standard potassium permanganate solution, and the 
amount of the latter required should be recorded. 

(3) A solution of dilute sulphuric acid, made by adding one part of tlu* 
strong acid to three parts of distilled water. 

The determination is made as follows : Place 200 c.c. of the water under 
examination in a porcelain casserole, add 10 c.c. of the dilute sulphuric 
acid and run in the standard permanganate solution from a burette until 
the water has a very marked red color. The solution is then boiled for ten 
minutes, more permanganate being added from the burette from time to 
time, if necessary, in order to maintain the intensity of the red color observed 
at the outset. This color should be kept as nearly constant as possible by 
9 



130 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

gradual addition. The heat is then removed from the casserole; 10 c.c. 
or more of the oxalic acid solution is added sufficient to destroy the color 
and the permanganate solution is again added from the burette until a 
faint pink tinge again appears. From the total permanganate used an 
amount must be deducted corresponding to the quantity of the oxalic acid 
solution employed, and from the remainder may be calculated the milli- 
grammes of available oxygen consumed by the organic matter present in 
the water. It should be remembered that urea is not oxidized by this 
treatment. By this test alone, therefore, a water which contains urea 
may give apparently excellent results. 

The average oxygen-consuming capacity for waters of varying purity 
may be considered to be as follows: Pure, 0.6; doubtful, 3.0; impure, 6.0. 

Dissolved Oxygen. For the determination of oxygen held in solu- 
tion the best method is probably as follows: A pipette of about 100 c.c. 
capacity is provided with an upper and lower stopcock, and the capacity 
of the same between the stopcocks is determined. Above the upper stop- 
cock the tube is expanded into a short, cylindrical funnel. The pipette is 
completely filled with the water to be examined, by immersion with both 
cocks open. The cocks having been closed, the pipette is wiped off and 
fixed in a suitable clamp, with its lower point dipping into a little diluted 
sulphuric acid. Two cubic centimeters of dilute potassium hydrate are 
then placed in the funnel and, by careful opening of the cocks, introduced 
within the pipette without the admission of air. After washing the 
funnel, 4 c.c. of a solution of ammonium ferrous sulphate are placed therein, 
and, by similar means, also admitted within the pipette. In the presence 
of the alkaline solution, the oxygen dissolved in the water will immediately 
oxidize the ferrous salt to the ferric state, and a mixture of the two hy- 
drates will shortly settle to the bottom after gentle agitation. After again 
washing the funnel, 2 c.c. of sulphuric acid equal parts of acid and water 
are placed therein, and the upper stopcock alone is opened. The higher 
gravity of the acid will cause it slowly to enter the pipette, where it will 
acidify the contents and dissolve the hydrates of iron. The contents and 
washings of the pipette, together with the acid from the beaker into which 
the lower extremity of the pipette has dipped, are now turned into a flask 
and titrated with a standard solution of potassium permanganate; this 
solution being prepared as described in the method given for the deter- 
mination of required oxygen. A control flask is now titrated, containing 
a mixture of 100 c.c. of the water, 2 c.c. of the sulphuric acid, 2 c.c. of 
the potassium hydrate solution and 4 c.c. of the ammonium ferrous sulphate 
solution. The difference between these two titrations (acid reaction having 
prevented oxidation in the second instance) will give the amount of 
ferrous salt oxidized by the oxygen dissolved in the water. The volume 
of the water operated upon will be the capacity of the pipette less the 
quantities of the alkaline and iron solutions employed. 

A valuable use of the above method is made beyond the mere estima- 
tion of dissolved oxygen. Waters heavily charged with microbes are 
known quickly to lose their oxygen, while the greater number of algae, on 
the contrary, contribute oxygen by evolving it under the influence of light. 
It is obvious that water stored in a closed vessel will neither gain nor lose 
oxygen in any length of time except through internal influences and 



WATER. 

hence the difference in oxygen, after proper storage for a suitable period, 
will approximately represent the quantity of bacteria present. This estima- 
tion is made as follows : After an immediate determination of the dissolved 
oxygen present, a second sample of the water is then introduced into a 
glass-stoppered bottle, which it completely tills. This is placed in the 
dark, at a constant temperature of 33 C., for forty-eight hours; such con- 
ditions being favorable for bacterial activity, while alguj growth is stopped. 
At the end of the time stated the dissolved oxygen is again estimated, and 
the amount found to have been lost will be in a measure proportional to 
the bacterial contents of the water. 

The loss of oxygen, divided by the amount of it originally present, is 
termed the coefficient of alterability. 

Lead and Copper. It may perchance be necessary for the sanitary 
officer to examine water for the presence of lead or copper; and the ease 
with which their dark sulphides may be formed provides a ready method. 
For this purpose a standard solution of lead nitrate is prepared by dissolving 
1.599 gin. of the salt in 1 liter of distilled water. Each cubic centimeter 
will contain 1 mgm. of metallic lead. The operation consists in placing 
the suspected water in a 100 c.c. Nessler jar; adding two drops of con- 
centrated hydrochloric acid, followed by 1 c.c. of colorless ammonium 
sulphide. The tint is matched by operating with measured amounts of 
the standard lead solution diluted to 100 c.c. This test does not dis- 
tinguish between copper and lead, but, since both are objectionable, dis- 
tinction between the two is of no practical sanitary importance. 

In conclusion it may here be emphasized that, having pronounced on 
it in the first instance, the duty of the sanitary officer in relation to the 
water-supply has only commenced. Constant watchfulness is required to 
guard against contamination either in source or distribution, and frequent 
examinations are necessary to detect deterioration before it is forced upon 
notice by the occurrence of preventable disease. The sanitary bearing of 
any variation in its constituents must be determined, but above all the or- 
ganic contamination must be noted at intervals and its increase carefully 
investigated and traced to its source. Every health officer will acknowledge 
the necessity of thus guarding the water-supply in camps, where soil pollu- 
tion is the inevitable consequence of continued occupation and where all 
formidable outbreaks of water-borne disease are connected with organic im- 
purities. Yet this care is seldom bestowed, chiefly from an impression that 
the organic matter lies beyond the scope of our present means of research. 
It is true that its quality and action on the human system cannot be predi- 
cated from the results of chemical examination ; but, when certain limits 
of organic impregnation can be defined, within which experience shows 
the water-supply to be, in general, innocent and beyond which there is 
liability to disease, a method which can accurately state the position of 
a given water with regard to those limits should not be disregarded. 

THE MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION OF WATER. 

This, in its broadest sense, includes the bacteriology of water as well 
as the examination of suspended or sedimentary matter. Ordinarily, how- 
ever, the former is treated separately and the microscopic examination is 



132 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



understood to include mineral, dead animal or vegetable matter, or living 
animal or vegetable organisms the latter not requiring artificial cultiva- 
tion for their recognition or determination. This subdivision is convenient 
for the sanitarian as well as the biologist, since the two classes of living 
organisms affect water in different ways. With certain reservations it may 
be said that while bacteria render a water unsafe, the microscopical organ- 
isms render it unsavory. 

The microscopical examination of water may be considered as of value 
when regarded from three standpoints : (1) As indicating sewage or other 
dangerous contamination; (2) as supplementing the chemical analysis; 
(3) as explaining the cause of turbidity, odors, etc., in water. With 
regard to the first point it is obvious that direct microscopic examination 
is incapable of revealing pathogenic bacteria, which ordinarily exist in 
comparatively small numbers in a great mass of water ; and which, more- 
over, are far outnumbered by ordinary water bacteria. The ova or larvae 
of some of the endoparasites of man have, however, been observed not 
infrequently in drinking-water. Sewage pollution cannot be definitely 
shown by the microscope unless the pollution is excessive when bits of 
textile fabric, starch grains, yeast cells, fibres of wood and paper, epithelial 
cells, hair and similar articles may be observed. The identification of 
these matters is of moment as indicating the character of the contamina- 
tion. Anything which can be unequivocally traced to the habitations of 
man must always cause the water to be regarded with suspicion ; since, if 
one substance from a house can gain entrance, others may also. 

The chemical analysis of a water determines the amount of organic 
matter present in a water, but does not distinguish as to its 
special source. Microscopical examination here becomes valu- 
able by showing not only whether the organic matter in sus- 
pension is vegetable or animal, but also whether it is made 
up of living organisms or of decomposing fragments. Micro- 
scopic examination has a special importance where the amount 
of albuminoid ammonia is high, since this may be readily ex- 
plained by a free growth of some organism. On the other 
hand, a sudden decrease in the nitrates or free ammonia 
might be accounted for by the appearance of some microscopic 
growth that had appropriated the nitrogen as a part of its 
food. 

By far the most important service that the microscopic 
examination renders is that of explaining the cause of the 
taste and odor of a water, and of its color and turbidity. 
Several of the microscopic organisms give rise to objection- 
able odors in water and, when sufficiently abundant, have a 
marked influence on its color. They also make the water 
turbid and cause unsightly scums and sediments to form. 
Upon all such matters relating to the aesthetic qualities of a 
water the microscopical examination is almost the only 
means of obtaining reliable information. 

The nature of the suspended matter was formerly deter- 
mined by an examination of the sediment, usually after boil- 
ing, which settled out on standing. This crude procedure 



400 



350 



300 



250 



200 



130 








FIG. 20. Sedg- 
wlck-Raf ter 
Graduated Fil- 
ter. (After 
Whlpple.) 



PLATE V. 




COMMONER AND MORE IMPORTANT FORMS OF MICROSCOPIC LIFE 

IN WATER. 



1, Asterionella, showing rapid multiplication. 

(Much enlarged.) 

2. Peridinium. (X 500.) 
8. Macrobiotius. (x 250.) 

4. Crenothrix. (A) Filament enclosed in <lieath. 



(B) Sheath removed to show spores. (Much enlarged.) 



V Syiiura. (X 500.) 

ti. Asterionella. typical fonn. 

7. Leptothrix. (Much enlarged.) 

i-ris. (X 'J.'i ) 
! (Jlenodinium. (X 500.) 



WATER. 



L38 





is now superseded by more scientific methods, the Sedgwick-Rafter method 
being the one most commonly employed. Briefly, this operation consists 
of the filtration of a measured quantity of the water sample through a 
layer of sand upon which the organisms are detained; the separation 
of the organisms from the sand by washing with a small measured quan- 
tity of filtered or distilled water and by decanting; the microscopical ex- 
amination of a portion of the decanted fluid ; the enumeration 
of the organisms found therein and the calculation from this 
of the number of organisms in the samples of water examined. 
A small amount of apparatus is necessary, this including a fil- 
ter, the decantation tubes, the cell and a microscope fitted with 
an ocular micro- 
meter. This meth- 
od is usually nu- 
merically precise 
within 10 per cent., 
the accuracy of the 
apparatus depend- 
ing greatly upon 
the character of the 

FIG. 21.- Sedgwiok-Raft>r Counting Cell, showlnR method of nillng. (After 

organisms in the whippio 

water examined. 

So many are the objects in water that the observer will usually be 
much at a loss, first, to identify them, and second, to know what their 
presence implies. Whipple states that, as regards the microscopic life 
in water, no less than 186 genera have been recorded, of which 108 are 
plants and 78 animals. Among these, however, only 18 are commonly 
found in large numbers 13 plants and 5 animals. Of the remainder, 21 
are occasionally found in large numbers, 16 plants and 5 animals. More 
than one-half of the total number of genera are only occasionally or rarely 
observed. Most of them find polluted water to be unfavorable to then- 
existence, and a microscopic examination of sewage reveals few of the 
living organisms found ordinarily in water; among those more likely to 
occur in such surroundings being the ciliated infusoria, as Paramwcium 
and Trachelocerca ; and fungus forms, such as the moulds, Leptomitus, 
Leptothrix and Beggiatoa. A number of forms exert a jK>werful influence 
on the occurrence of odors in water. These are commonly due to their 
death and putrefaction ; but such odors may frequently be brought about 
by the natural odors of the essential oils generated within the cell-structure 
of these growths. These oil globules are especially abundant in the mature 
organisms, and the odors'become most pronounced when the breaking up 
of these organisms liberates the oil globules throughout the water. Among 
the forms chiefly concerned in the production of unpleasant odors in water 
may be mentioned Synura, Asterionella, Uroglena, Peridinium and Glenodi- 
nium. 

In the military service it is obvious that the microscopic examination 
of drinking-water will not usually be required. 



134 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



THE BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF WATER. 

When the magnitude of the bacteriological field is taken into consider- 
ation it is seen to be clearly out of the question, in a work of this special 
character, to go beyond a simple enumeration of such bacteria as may be 
present in a sample of water to be examined ; leaving the difficult problem 
of differentiation to be discussed by writers on bacteriology, to whose works 
the investigator in the higher branches of water examination will presum- 
ably have access. There may, however, be instances when a partial bac- 
teriological examination of 'water will be of value to the military sanitarian 
a possibility which serves as the reason for the insertion of the following 
outline of the methods to be employed. 

As the whole success of any bacteriological observation depends pri- 
marily upon the sterilization of the apparatus and materials employed, and 
upon the proper preparation of culture media, great care is naturally to be 
given to these points. Empty glassware is best sterilized by exposure to 
dry heat at a temperature of 180 to 200 C. for the period of one hour. 
The small pipettes used for the measurement of water should be plugged 
with cotton at the end which is to be placed in the mouth ; the whole 
pipette should then be placed in a suitable glass tube containing a cotton 
plug in its open end, the large end of the pipette being permitted to pro- 
trude through this plug. After being thus prepared the pipettes are steri- 
lized and maintained so in stock. 

The culture medium commonly employed in the bacteriological exam- 
ination of water is that of gelatin-peptone, best prepared as follows : One 
pound of lean beef, finely minced, is infused with 1 liter of cold water 
and allowed to stand for twenty-four hours in a cold place or ice-box. 
The whole mass is then strained through linen and its original bulk made 
up with distilled water. To this clear filtrate is now added 100 gm. of 
gelatin, 10 gm. of dry peptone and 5 gm. of common salt; after which the 
whole is placed in a steam sterilizer for about an hour until a complete 
solution of the gelatin and peptone has taken place. The resulting liquid 
will be found to have an acid reaction ; this should be carefully treated 
with a solution of sodium carbonate until only faintly acid. 

The bulk of available evidence points to an acid reaction of -|- 1.5 as 
the optimum degree of reaction in inoculated culture media; this degree 
of acidity being present when 1.5 per cent, of normal sodium hydroxide 
solution exactly suffices to render the culture medium neutral to phenol- 
phthalein. 

This liquid is then clarified by mixing with iff the whites of three eggs, 
the whole being again placed in the sterilizer for half an hour. Owing to 
the coagulation of the albumen this rises to the surface, carrying with it 
any suspended particles. The whole is then again strained through linen 
until a clear and limpid liquid is obtained ; the liquid then being filtered, 
with the use of the hot-water funnel, into sterilized test-tubes, placing about 
10 c.c. in each tube. The plugs of sterilized cotton with which the test 
tubes are provided are replaced as each test-tube is filled ; the partially 
filled tubes being at once steamed in an Arnold's sterilizer for fifteen 
minutes, and this operation being repeated on the two following days to 



PLATE VI. 



^\^vv*m 

mim^^SXc 




COMMONER AND MORE IMPORTANT FORMS OF MICROSCOPIC LIFE 

IN WATER. 



1. Diaptomus. (X 25.) 

2. Cladothrix, showing false branching. 

(Much enlarged.) 

3. Beggiatoa. (Much enlarged. ) 

4. Daphnia. (X 25.) 



5. Cyclops. (X 8R.) 

6. Bosmina. (X 25.) 

7. Anguillula. (X 100.) 

8. Uroglcna. (X 250.) 

9. Canthocamptus. (X 25.) 



WATER. 



135 




Fio. 22. Mlquel'8 Flask. 



sterilize their contents. Gelatin tubes thus prepared should be kept stored 
in the dark, their wool stoppers being covered by rubber caps- to prevent 
evaporation and concentration. Gelatin-peptone should be made in but 
small quantities, since old jelly has a tendency to become acid in reaction, 
which is unfavorable to the growth of certain forms of bacterial life. 

It is obvious that bacteriological examination of water is valueless un- 
less made promptly upon samples which have been collected with every 
precaution against contamination. Multiplication of 
bacteria goes on with extraordinary rapidity at ordi- 
nary temperatures, and when possible, the inoculation 
of culture media should be performed at the source 
from which the water is drawn. This can be done 
by the use of Miquel's conical flasks, which have flat 
bottoms and tubulated glass caps, ground at the joint, 
plugged with cotton. Such flasks receive 10 c.c. each 
of the nutrient gelatin when it is first made, and are 
kept in stock like test tubes. Taken to the field, they 
receive an inoculation of 1 c.c. of water, and the chances 
of later contamination by transfer, and of multiplication during the journey 
to the laboratory, are thereby avoided. Water samples are taken by many 
in small glass bulbs with long thin stems. These bulbs can be sterilized 
by the direct Bunsen flame and sealed while hot. Upon afterward break- 
ing off the point of the stem under water, the latter- will enter the vessel 
because of the partial vacuum and the stem can be at once sealed in a 
candle flame. During transportation to the laboratory the bulbs filled with 
water samples should be packed in ice. Upon arrival at the laboratory 
the base of the stem is partially cut through and broken off. After agita- 
tion of the water, 1 c.c. is transferred, by means of a sterilized pipette, to a 

test tube of nutrient gelatin, the jelly having pre- 
viously been liquefied by immersion of the tube 
in warm water and the cotton plug having been 
singed in the Bunsen flame. Mixing of the water 
and gelatin is accomplished by tilting the tube 
forward and back, and the mixture is then 
poured into a sterilized Petri dish, and inculuted, 
in the dark, at a temperature of about 22 C. 

Where the water contains a large number of 
micro-organisms it is advisable to make several 
cultures with different dilutions. This is usually 
accomplished by sowing one tube of nutrient gel- 
atin, for purposes of comparison, in the manner 
already given. Inoculations are then made in the 
same manner from a mixture made up of 1 c.c. of 
the water under examination and 9 c.c. of ster- 
ilized water ; and also from a mixture containing 
1 c.c. of the water sample and 99 c.c. of sterilized water. These dilutions 
must be made with great care, since any error is multiplied. 

Counting of the colonies of bacteria is usually undertaken after an in- 
cubation period of forty-eight hours, but this period varies according as 
there is greater or less danger of the colonies coalescing and thus confus- 



Fio. 23. Bulbs for Water 
Samples. 



136 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




ing the count. It is assumed that each colony is the result of the develop- 
ment of a single micro-organism, and from the enumeration of these colonies 
the amount of bacterial life in each cubic centimeter taking the various 
dilutions of the water sample into consideration may readily be deter- 
mined. It is the practice of some to use high dilutions, to continue the in- 
cubation for a period of two or three weeks to allow the development of 

the more slowly developing bac- 
teria and to count only such colo- 
nies as are then perceptible to the 
naked eye. This method of pro- 
cedure has many advantages. 
Where the number of colonies is 
large, counting must be done with 
the aid of a ruled glass plate. 
For this purpose a modification 
of Wolffhiigers apparatus is rec- 
ommended by Mason. 

The number of micro-organ- 
isms found in different water 

FIG. 24. Improved Apparatus for Counting Colonies of ,^i^^ i ,_i 

Bacteria; (After Mason.) samples varies greatly, not only 

according to their degrees of 

purity but also according to season and, as intimated above, the length of 
time they have been kept before examination. It is difficult to lay down 
any standard of bacterial purity for drinking-water, in terms of permissible 
numbers, as the power of micro-organisms for evil plainly depends not so 
much upon their quantity as upon their special character. "It has been 
asserted that the presence of a large number of micro-organisms is no cri- 
terion of the quality of a water, and that the mere enumeration of colonies 
is of little or no value. Without a thorough knowledge of all the accom- 
panying conditions such knowledge is certainly insufficient ; though speak- 
ing in a general way, it may be accepted that numerous bacteria indicate 
the existence of a sufficient quantity of food which, in water, is commonly 
of the nature of sewage. " 

Besides the positive evidence which it gives regarding the conditions 
favorable to the existence of germ life in water, pathogenic as well as 
saprophytic, the bacteriological examination of water has a special value 
in testing the efficiency of the Berkefeld filters used in the military service. 
For this latter purpose the cultivation and count of germs is most valuable 
and differentiation is a secondary matter; for the assumption is a just one 
that a filter which removes the harmless bacteria will eliminate the patho- 
genic varieties as well. 

Among natural waters a sample which contains but 100 bacteria per 
cubic centimeter is usually regarded as very pure, while water containing 
up to 500 per cubic centimeter is usually classed as good. When con- 
taining 500 to 1,000 micro-organisms per cubic centimeter a water may 
justly be regarded as suspicious; while very impure waters contain from 
5,000 to 50,000 germ per cubic centimeter. 



WATER. 137 



III. 

PURIFICATION OF DRINKING-WATER. 

From the nature of military service it may frequently happen that 
troops are perforce required to utilize water from certain sources, even 
though this water be of doubtful or even positively bad character. The 
improvement in quality of such water is the first duty of the military sani- 
tarian, and the thoroughness with which his efforts to this end are carried 
out will be faithfully shown by the degree to which water-borne diseases 
are prevalent among the troops of the command. The general methods by 
which water is purified in the army physically, mechanically and 
chemically are the same as are employed in civil life ; but the special 
methods of then* application are usually quite dissimilar and are controlled 
by the peculiar conditions prevailing in the military service. 

Purification by Physical Means. The application of heat is un- 
doubtedly the most certain and at the same time ready method of effecting 
the sterilization of water. All pathogenic micro-organisms are destroyed 
by boiling; clarification is partially accomplished, and, by the same pro- 
cedure, calcium carbonate is rendered insoluble through the expulsion of 
carbonic acid, thus rendering the water softer. Carbon dioxide, however, 
gives sparkle to water and impresses the palate pleasantry, and where this 
gas is driven off the taste becomes flat and disagreeable. This loss of 
sapidity is a serious hindrance to the proper use of boiled water in the 
military service; since many soldiers, despite all efforts and warning to 
the contrary, will not hesitate to avoid its use whenever possible pre- 
ferring to drink the more palatable but less healthful fluid drawn direct 
from possibly polluted sources. For this reason, due care should be taken 
properly to aerate all boiled water ; this being accomplished by pouring it 
from one receptacle into another, by forcing air into it, as with a bicycle 
pump, or by filtering it through charcoal or clean gravel. In garrison, 
where abundant facilities are at hand, the boiling of a sufficient supply of 
drinking-water is readily accomplished, but for marching troops, often 
limited to the tin cup as a utensil for boiling, it becomes a matter of 
the greatest difficulty if not, indeed, impossible of proper execution. In 
hot climates, also, the problem of cooling such boiled water is by no means 
simple, and care should be taken lest the effect of boiling be neutralized 
by the admixture of unboiled water, added to reduce the temperature 
more rapidly. As a general rule, in hot climates, water should be boiled 
and canteens filled during the evening, thus insuring a supply of cool water 
for the following day. Where the water-supply is bad and proper filters 
are not available it is advisable for marching troops habitually to use weak 
tea or coffee as a beverage, the employment of a sterile drink being thus 
insured. During the occurrence of an epidemic of any of the diseases 
known to be transmitted by the medium of water it should be an invariable 
rule to boil all water used for drinking purposes. 

Distillation, the most effectual method of freeing water from all 
impurities, is rarely used in the military service except on board transports 
and at a few stations in the southwest, where a limited supply is furnished 
by the ice machines. When properly carried out, all danger of infection 



138 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

by means of water is removed ; but if taken from an unclean source dis- 
tilled water may nevertheless produce sickness, and it has frequently 
happened in the naval service that intestinal disturbances have followed 
the use of water distilled from fluid drawn from foul harbors. In taste, 
distilled water is flat and disagreeable from the expulsion of dissolved 
gases, and by many such extremely pure water is supposed to affect diges- 
tion unfavorably and even to exert a harmful influence on the cellular ele- 
ments of the gastro-intestinal tract. These theoretical objections, how- 
ever, have not been found to exist in practice during the many years in 
which distilled water has been the usual drink in the naval services of the 
world. For use on transports the Baird condenser gives the best results, 
an especial feature of this apparatus being the introduction of steam into 
the condenser in such a manner as to drag with it a constant and regulated 
current of air, thereby causing very efficient aeration of the water during 
the act of condensation. By subsequent filtration and by standing for 
several hours all disagreeable taste is removed. As furnished from the 
ice machines of southern posts, distilled water, in addition to its flat taste, 
often has an oily flavor, and under such circumstances troops endeavor to 
avoid its use whenever possible. While every effort toward the improve- 
ment of quality should be made, it is not too much to say that the use of 
water from a prohibited source of supply should be considered as conduct 
prejudicial to good order and military discipline, and be punished as such. 

Many more or less elaborate forms of apparatus for the sterilization of 
water by heat have been devised during the past few years notably those 
of Rouart, Kny-Scheerer, Desmaroux, and Maignen but all are so much 
inferior to the Waterhouse-Forbes water sterilizer, described below, that 
they do not require further consideration in this connection. 

The principle, action and construction of the Waterhouse-Forbes water 
sterilizer is given as follows by its inventors : 

First. A source of water-supply having a maintained level below that 
required for causing the water to pass entirely through the apparatus. 

Second. The application of heat to a part of the water in the apparatus 
at the point reached by gravity until ebullition is produced, thereby causing 
the water to rise and pass on through the remainder of the apparatus. 

Third. The transference of the heat from the hot water passing from, 
to the cold water passing to, the point where the heat is applied. 

In order to illustrate easily the action of this principle, reference should 
be made to the accompanying diagrammatic drawing, 1 showing a water 
tank with a pipe, 2, through which water enters and is allowed to fill the 
tank up to the water level x and no higher, as it is restrained by the float- 
operated valve shown in the tank. The water to be treated passes from 
the tank 1 down through the pipe 3 into the compartment 4 of the 
heat exchange. Rising in the compartment 4, the water enters the heater 
5 and rises in the pipe 6 to the level x. Heat is applied to the heater 
5 by mea"ns of a flame 7, which causes the water to boil over through 
the pipe 6 into the top of the compartment 8 of the heat exchange. 
When this compartment has become filled, the water runs off through the 
orifice 11 of the pipe 10. While passing down through the compart- 
ment 8 the heat of the water, which is boiling hot, is transferred, by 
conduction, through the partition or diaphragm 9, to the cold water passing 



WATER. 



139 





up through the other compartment 4; so that the water which has been 
raised to boiling passes out of the apparatus nearly as cold as that enter- 
ing the apparatus, while the entering cold water becomes heated as it 
passes toward the heater and reaches the latter in a very hot condition 
and nearly at the boiling point. Therefore the only heat to be supplied is 
that necessary to bring the already heated water to the boiling point, and 
to cause it to rise above the normal level x, boil over through the pipe 
6, and so pass on through the remainder of the apparatus to the discharge 
outlet 11. It will be observed that but little fuel is required to operate 
this apparatus, for the reason that the heat is conserved and used over and 
over again, whereas by the ordinary process of boiling water and allowing 
it to cool off, all the heat which 
is required for raising the tem- 
perature of the water to the 
boiling point is thrown away. /^ =r ^\ 
For example, if water is dis- " 
charged from the Waterhouse- 
Forbes apparatus 5 higher in 
temperature than on entering 
the apparatus, but 5 units of heat 
are lost for every pound of water 
treated ; whereas by the ordinary 
method, assuming the water to 
have an original temperature of 
62 F., it must be raised to 212 
F. to reach the boiling point, and 
each pound of water treated, there- 
fore, must have 150 units of heat 
put into it, all this being lost in cooling. It is apparent, therefore, that 
the Waterhouse-Forbes system is thirty times more economical in fuel 

Fig. 26 represents the Waterhouse-Forbes apparatus as first designed 
for the United States army, the frame of the apparatus being rendered 
in solid black. A float box or water tank contains a float-actuated valve, 
which maintains the level of the water at the line x, while the figure 2 
designates the pipe through which the water is supplied to the float-actu- 
ated valve. At 3 is a pipe through which the water passes from the 
float box to the bottom of the "raw-water compartment;" the first heat 
exchange being shown by the number 4. Rising from this compartment, 
the water overflows and runs down through the pipe 5 to the bottom of 
the "raw- water compartment," 6 of the second heat exchange; and rising 
through the second compartment, the water flows through the pipe 7 into 
the heater 8, where it stops by gravity at the level x. Heat is applied 
Jo the water in the heater by means of an oil stove, 9 ; the flame being 
within the wind gauge 10. When ebullition takes place the water rises 
in the heater and flows over into the basin 11, and from this it runs off 
through a pipe 12, (Fig. 27, showing " sterilked-water side* of compart- 
ment) into the top of the " sterilized-water compartment" 13. When 
the compartment, 13, and pipe, 14, are filled, the water runs from the 
pipe into the top of the compartment 15, and when this compartment is 
filled the water is discharged through the opening 17 of the pipe 16. 



FIG. 35. Diagram of Forbes Water Sterilizer. 



140 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



4T? 




Vents are provided at the points 18, 18, 18, 18, to prevent air or vapor 
trapping the flow of water. Should for any reason the water level in the 
float box rise above the normal line x, the surplus of the water will over- 
flow through the pipes constituting the frame and run off at 19. When 
the apparatus is in operation boiling-hot water may be obtained if desired by 

stopping up the orifice 17 of the dis- 
charge pipe until the catch basin at 
11 overflows at the small spout 20. 
In construction, the apparatus 
is entirely self-contained and may 
easily and quickly be assembled 
for operation or taken apart for 
transportation. In the latter state 
the complete apparatus forms five 
bundles, no one of which weighs 
more than forty-five pounds. The 
entire apparatus is throughly gal- 
vanized after its construction, 
thereby insuring a perfect zinc 
surface throughout. The frame 
which carries the entire apparatus 
is of standard one-half inch 
.vrought-iron pipe, connected with 
malleable iron fittings. The 
various pipes constituting the 
frame are easily screwed into the 

connecting sockets and fittings, and when taken apart for transportation 
form a bundle of straight pipes, none of which is over four feet in length. 
The float-box is of cast iron and the float is of well-seasoned white pine, 
specially treated to prevent water-logging. The float-box is provided with 
a cover which is removable by unscrewing two bolts. 

The circulating pipes, through which the water passes in its course 
through the apparatus, are of standard three-fourths inch wrought-iron 
pipes, with special cast-iron fittings. The most important part of the ap- 
paratus is the heat exchange, which in this case is divided into two units 
in order to lessen the weight of any single piece for transportation. Each 
heat exchange is in the form of a box five and one-half inches square and 
twenty-six inches long. The box is divided into two water-tight compart- 
ments by means of a diaphragm of thin metal. The two half shells form- 
ing this box are flanged and riveted on opposite sides and the diaphragm 
is held between these flanges on either side. Therefore any leaking must 
occur from the interior of either compartment outward, and it is impossible 
for a leak to occur from one compartment to the other. The diaphragm 
is formed of a single sheet of iron three feet wide by eight feet long, folded 
back and forth into deep corrugations about one-fourth of an inch apart 
and four and one-half inches deep. The half shells forming the box are of 
iron, and the whole exchange, both shell and diaphragm, is formed from 
the black iron and riveted together. In the process of galvanizing, the 
entire surface of the metal is not only thoroughly coated with zinc, but at 
the same time all the joints are entirely closed with zinc and the whole 



FIG, 26. Forbes Water Sterilizer. "Raw water 
side. 



WATER. 



141 



made absolutely water-tight. The heads or ends of the exchange are cast 
into the exchange of solid metal for a depth of one-half inch, thereby not 
only preventing external leaking but also preventing any leak from one 
compartment to the other. The ends are further covered with a casting 
which serves to hold the exchange in its proper place in the frame of the 
apparatus. The heater is in the form of a flat cone having a rolled steel 
bottom upon which the frame impinges. From the top of the cone rises a 
short small pipe. It is within this pipe that the water rises by gravity 
and stops several inches below the top of the pipe. The top orifice of this 
"fountain pipe " is several inches above the bottom of the catch basin, so 
that any water that boils up through the " fountain pipe " overflows and 
is caught in this basin, and cannot run back into the heater but must flow 
out through the pipe 12. The heater is heavily insulated to prevent the 
loss of heat by radiation. The oil stove is constructed to burn kerosene, 
and the oil is fed to the burner by air pressure generated by the pump. 
The oil before burning is made into vapor which burns with a hot, blue flame, 
leaving no soot or deposit on the heating surface of the water heater. 

On examination of this apparatus by a board of medical officers it was 
found that water heavily charged with the typhoid bacillus, the colon 
bacillus or the bacillus prodigiosus 
was rendered entirely free from liv- 
ing organisms. Agar plates made 
with 1 c.c. of water which had 
passed through the apparatus 
showed an average of six colonies 
of spore-bearing bacteria, such as 
the hay bacillus or the bacillus 
ramosus. The capacity of the 
apparatus was found by the board 
to be at the rate of three hundred 
and twelve gallons in twelve 
hours ; there being a difference in 
temperature of but 4.5 F. between 
the non-sterilized and sterilized 
water. Careful tests show that 
there is no apparent loss of the nat- 
ural gases during the passage of the 
water through the apparatus, and 
that it is free from lead or other 
substances which might have en- 
tered into solution from the alloy used for holding the diaphragm in place. 
The weight of this water sterilizer is one hundred and fifty pounds, di- 
vided as follows : 

Pound*. 

Two heat exchanges, each forty -three and one-half pounds 

Two frame supports, each two pounds 

Frame - t ? 

Float box, complete ii 

Four flow pipes, with connections 

Heater 

Oil tank and burner, complete 




Fio. 27.-Forbes WU?r Sterilizer. Sterilized water 
aide. 



Total 



150 



142 THEOEY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



It will thus be seen that this apparatus is quite transportable aud can 
be entirely taken apart and made into either four or five bundles, no one 
of which will exceed forty-three and one-half pounds in weight. Two such 
sterilizers may be carried on a pack mule. 

The advantages of this most ingenious water sterilizer were summed up 
by the board as follows : 

First. That water passing through it, although brought to the boiling 
point, is maintained at this temperature for so short a time as not to be de- 
prived of its natural gases, and hence not rendered unacceptable to the taste. 
Second. That all living micro-organisms, except a few spore-bearing bac- 
teria, are destroyed by the degree of heat 
attained during the passage of the water 
through the apparatus. The disadvan- 
tage of the escape of a few spore-forming 
bacteria through this apparatus is con- 
sidered to be of no practical importance. 

Third. It furnishes an abundant sup- 
ply of practically sterile water and may 
be kept in action, if necessary, for the 
entire twenty-four hours without renew- 
ing the supply of oil in the reservoir, and 
at a cost of about four cents an hour. 

Fourth. The water, having been 
slowly heated until it reaches, temporar- 
ily, the boiling point, is afterward cooled 
to within 4.5 F. of the water entering 
the apparatus. This is one of the most 
important advantages possessed by this 
sterilizer. By placing the bottom of the 
exchange in a freezing mixture, the tem- 
perature of the sterilized water, as it flows 
from the machine, may be reduced below 
40 F. 

Fifth. Its durability and freedom 
from liability to breakage. 

Sixth. The facility with which the 
apparatus may be put together and entirely taken apart, only one tool a 
wrench being required for this purpose. 

Seventh. The facility with which the apparatus can be thoroughly 
cleansed. This is effected by the removal of the side pipes, thus permitting 
a complete flushing out of both exchanges. 

The fact that the apparatus does not clarify the water was deemed of 
no particular importance by the board, since this could be easily effected 
prior to its passage through the sterilizer by means of one or two water 
barrels partially filled with fine and coarse sand and placed at the proper 
height above the sterilizer. * 

The board was of the opinion that a single apparatus would suffice for 
the needs of two companies ; or, where storage of water was possible, of a 
battalion. As a result of exhaustive experiments the Waterhouse-Forbes 
apparatus was officially recommended as being superior to any of the many 




FIG. 28. Forbes Water Sterilizer, Specially 
Designed for Field Use. 



WATER. 



143 




FKS. 29. Partial Sectional View of Forbw Field 
Water Sterilizer. (Jiving Detail of Upper Part of 
Heat Exchange, P.uat Box and WaUT Heater. 



filters or water sterilizers submitted for trial by the board and as being 
well suited for the abundant supply of sterile water to troops. 

An improved apparatus, made of brass lined with block tin, has recently 
been devised by the same company especially for the use of troops in the 
field. This apparatus is very trans- 
portable. Its weight, when boxed for 
shipment, is only about ninety pounds 
and the volume of the case only 3.9 
cubic feet, making a package forty- 
nine inches in length. In the illus- 
tartion of this improved sterilizer on 
page 142, 1 is a stop cock intended to 
be screwed into a barre 4 !, hogshead or 
other retainer for " raw " water, near 
the bottom of same; 2 is a coupling 
for connecting the rubber hose 3 with 
the stop cock ; 4 and 4 are hose bands ; 
5 is a nozzle for admitting water to the 
apparatus. This nozzle is cast in one 
piece with the pedestal, 6, forming a 
support for the float box 7; 10 is an 
overflow for the float box. The func- 
tion of the float box 7 and its inter- 
nal members is to maintain the proper 
level of the "raw " water supplied to the apparatus. The overflow 10 is 
below the tops of the tubes 35, so that any excess of water entering the 
apparatus, through accident or failure of the valve, 38, will overflow through 
it and render it impossible for raw water to pass through the sterilizer. 

The valve mechanism in this apparatus operates to maintain a uniform 
water level regardless of the pressure existing in the source of supply, and 
it is therefore applicable for use when being fed from a barrel without 

pressure, as in the field, or in a bar- 
racks where the water is under con- 
siderable pressure from a pipe line. 

Heat is generated by the combus- 
tion of mineral oil, one quart of the 
latter being sufficient for five hours' 
continuous use ; while the oil reservoir 
contains sufficient fuel to operate the 
apparatus continuously for twenty-four 
hours. The capacity of the field ap- 
paratus is ordinarily about twenty-five 
gallons per hour. The difference in 
temperature between the incoming and 

outgoing water is much greater than in the previously described apparatus, 
which possesses two heat exchanges, amounting to as much as 15 to 20. 
This fault, however, is by no means serious and is much more than coun- 
terbalanced by the greatly increased portability of the new apparatus. 

Purification by Mechanical Means. Sedimentation is practiced at 
nearly all military posts or encampments in which the water supply is 




Fio. 30. Top Sectional View of Forbes Field 
Apparatus. Showing the Method of Dividing 
the Raw and Sterilized WaUT. 



144 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



derived from running streams, usually by impounding the water by dams, 
or sometimes, as at Fort Kinggold, by the use of special sedimenting reser- 
voirs. The process very materially improves the character of a turbid 




FIG. 31. Improvised Camp Filter. 

water through the deposition of a considerable proportion of the suspended 
matter. 

Theoretically, by the process of nitration, water must not only be 
rendered clear and free from sedimentary deposits, but also, when taken 
from a doubtful source, it should be freed from any infectious material 
which may have gained access to it. The clarification of a turbid water is, 
from a sanitary standpoint, of little importance as compared with the re- 
moval of disease-producing germs ; but the palatability of such water is 
certainly increased by the process, and the destruction of the contained 
bacterial life may be subsequently accomplished by other means. Filtra- 
tion, even of a crude nature, improves the potability of water through re- 
moval of the grosser particles held in suspension; but care should be 
taken lest clarification and sterilization be confused, and the operation be 
regarded as satisfactorily completed when but the former is accomplished. 
It is most important that the filtering material employed be clean and 
frequently renewed, else it may soon happen that fairly pure water, after 
being passed through an illy-tended filter, may contain far more micro- 
organisms than were present prior to filtration. 

Improvised Filters. In the field it is often necessary to improvise 
filters, but such filters serve only to clarify water and do not remove micro- 








FIG. 32.-Barrel Filter. 



FIG. 88. Barrel Filter. 



organisms. After clarification, the water should be sterilized by other 
means, preferably by boiling. 

The simplest way of accomplishing hasty filtration consists in digging 
a pit near the proposed source of supply, so that the water may percolate 
through the soil before being used. A more satisfactory method consists 



WATER. 



145 



in sinking a barrel or box in such a pit and allowing water to pass in 
through a wooden trough packed with clean sand, gravel or charcoal 
If two boxes or barrels of unequal size be available, one may be placed in- 
side the other and the interspace tilled with clean sand or suitable filter- 
ing material. The outer barrel is pierced by small holes near the bottom 
and the inner barrel near the top, the whole being partially submerged in 
the water to be filtered. 

Where the water supply is smaller this method may be reversed, the 
space between the barrels being partially filled \v ; th filtering material and 
the bottom of the inner barrel being re- 
moved or, better, perforated. Water is 
then poured in above the filtering ma- 
terial, whence it percolates downward 
and rises to its proper level in the inner 
barrel 

An effective filtering arrangement 
may be improvised by boring a small hole 
near the bottom of a suitable receptacle 
and partially filling the latter with layers 

of sand, gravel and, if obtainable, charcoal. The water to be clarified is 
poured in at the top, passes through the filtering medium and is collected 
as it emerges from the aperture below. 

Should a large box be at hand it may be made to serve both for the 
filtration and storage of water by dividing it into four compartments by 
suitably pierced partitions. Two of these spaces are partially filled with 
sand, charcoal and gravel, or small pebbles, the muddy water being poured 
in a chamber at one extremity and, after being twice filtered, removed by 
a spigot at the other end. This method is perhaps the best for securing 
improvised filtration, but is open to the practical difficulty of making the 
partitions sufficiently tight to prevent the possibility of a leakage of unfil- 
tered water from one compartment into another. 

It should be borne in mind that filters of the above character are but 
temporary makeshifts at best, and that, unless the filtering material is fre- 




FlO. 34. Barrel or Tub Filter. 




FIG. 35. Box Filter. (After Partes.) 

quently renewed, they become a source of danger through the great amount 
of germ life which they retain and for the development of which they 
furnish every facility. It is important that the sand and gravel employed 
in these improvised filters be thoroughly washed and then sterilized by 
heating to redness before use. The addition of a small amount of alum 
10 



146 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



to the water first filtered is of advantage, since it produces a jelly-like pre- 
cipitate which coats the sand of the filtering surface and materially aids in 
arresting and entangling the more minute particles held in suspension. 

Maignen Filters. For moving troops or for camp use, as regards the 
clarification of water, the Maignen filter gives excellent results. The 

filtered water, however, is not by any means 
sterile, although a certain proportion of exist- 
ing micro-organisms is undoubtedly removed 
by such filtration. Hence water clarified by 
passing through this type of filter requires to 
be sterilized by further procedure before use. 
The rapidity of filtration, however, is great, 
and cleanliness of the apparatus is easy to 
maintain. Further, this filter possesses the 
great military advantage of being durable, 
light and readily portable. When used as 
supplementary to the Berkefeld or Chamber- 
land apparatus the Maignen filter is of great 
utility. 

These filters are made in many forms, 
though varying but little in the essentials of 
construction, as shown in the accompanying 
illustration. There is a central core of asbes- 
tos felted cloth, surrounded by a layer of 
charcoal or charcoal compound. In the 
British army a modified Maignen filter, using 
a mixture of alum, iron and charcoal, under 
the name of "Carferal," is employed. The 
charcoal layer is held in place by an outer 
asbestos covering of one or more thicknesses. 
The operation of filtration is simple and is 

performed by siphonage it being readily appreciated that the rapidity of 
filtration will be largely dependent on the length of the lower branch of 
the siphon. Where very muddy 
water is being clarified the fil- 
tering organ should be frequently 
sponged not brushed or 
washed in clean water. When 
not in use it should be cleaned 
and allowed to dry in the sun. 

To disinfect the Maignen 
filter a solution of permanaga- 
nate of potash, 1-1,000 strength, 
may be passed through the appa- 
ratus, or the filter may be steri- 
lized by boiling and drying in 
the open air. The latter operation is not always easy of accomplishment 
in the field. 

Berkefeld Filters. The essential feature of the Berkefeld filter is a 
hollow filtering bougie of infusorial earth, composed of minute skeletons 







FIG. 36. Core of Maignen Filter. 




FIG. 37. -Cross Section of a Maignen Filtering Organ. 
A, Inner asbestos cloth : B, layer of flne " Carbo-Cal- 
cto " ; C, layer of granular " Carbo-Calcls " ; D, outer 
asbestos cloth ; E, protective asbestos cloth. 



WATER. 



147 



of diatomaoe, and containing, by their ladder-like and interlacing struc- 
ture, an enormous number of small pores. In a given bulk of the filtering 
cylinder the solid matter is said to represent only 27 per cent, of the space 
occupied. The filtering cylinder is closed above, but opens below in a 
nozzle. This cylinder is enclosed in a strong metal or glass jacket, a space 
intervening between the two above and at the sides, while below they are 
fixed together by a screw tap, with an opening in the centre for the passage 
of the nozzle. The water passes through the bougie from without inward. 
The yield of this filter naturally varies with the degree of pressure, the 
state of the water as regards suspended materLl and the frequency with 
which the operation of cleansing is performed. Where the water is turbid 
the outside of the filter bougie is soon covered with a deposit by which the 
process of filtration is greatly impeded and ultimately brought to an end ; 




Fio. 38. Malgnen Filter In Operation. 

and hence it is essential that muddy water be clarified before being passed 
through the filter. With a pressure of forty pounds, the yield per minute, 
at the outset, is as follows : 

8 cylinders, diameter 6 inches H gallons. 

5 tt 7 2i 

9 " u 8i " ** 

15 " " 12 " 7 * 

Without proper cleansing, however, the filter soon becomes clogged and 
the above quantities are markedly reduced. 

The bougies are cleansed by brushing or sponging, and it is claimed 
that with each cleaning about one-thousandth of an inch is removed, thus 
reopening the pores and preventing clogging. Disinfection of the cylinder 
is accomplished by boiling, care being taken to avoid injury by sudden 
changes of temperature. If dropped at once into boiling water the cylinder 
becomes cracked and useless. 

In experiments made by the writer with respect to the sterilization c 
water by filtration through the Berkefeld portable field filters the result? 
were by no means uniform, a cylinder being occasionally found which did 



148 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



not arrest all bacterial life. In one case, where the cylinder was apparently 
sound and free from cracks, 1 c.c. of rather pure unfiltered water yielded 
sixty-six colonies of bacteria when grown on agar for thirty-six hours, 

while an equal amount of filtered water 
gave thirty-one colonies. But usually the 
water was rendered almost completely 
sterile after passing through the appara- 
tus, as is well shown in the accompany- 
ing illustrations of plate cultures. It 
would appear from this that all niters 
should be tested bacteriologically before 
being issued for use by troops. 

Sternberg states that under a twelve- 
pound pressure no bacteria passed through 
a Berkefeld filter, attached to a faucet, for 
twenty-one consecutive days. A board 
of medical officers, however, has recently 
found that repeated sterilization by boil- 
ing apparently produces structural changes in the . bougie by which the 
passage of micro-organisms ultimately becomes possible. Fragility of the 
cylinder, leading to breakage from rough handling, is another disadvantage 
not to be overlooked. 

Berkefeld filters, made up in forms especially adapted to field service, are 
now used in the armies of the United States, England, Germany and Austria. 
In these military forms the filter usually rests on a double-acting hand 
pump attached to a folding tripod, the legs of which are so arranged that 
they can be readily folded for transportation. The dimensions of the 




FIG. 39. Filtering Material of Berkefeld 
Filter, magnified 500 diameters. 




p. 




FIG. 40. Longitudinal Section of Single 
Berkefeld Filter. 



FIG. 41. Battery of Berkefeld Filters. 



apparatus, when folded together, are two feet by seven inches by six inches. 
The weight is eleven pounds, and the capacity of filtered water is one-half 
gallon per minute. A small Berkefeld filter, without the tripod attach- 



WATER. 



149 



ment, is supplied for hospital use, and is packed in the dressing and steril- 
izer chest. 

A large size Berkefeld filter, containing a battery of nine cylinders, 
mounted on a substantial wooden frame and intended for carriage on mule- 





B. 

FIG. 42. A, Cultures made from 0.5 c.c., very muddy tap-water, without nitration ; 71, cultures made from 
1 c.c. of same water after filtration through Berkefeld filter. (Twenty four hours Incubation.) 

back, is now manufactured. This apparatus is said to supply four and 
one-half gallons of water, per minute, entirely free from all bacterial life. 

Berkefeld filters were much used in our camps during the war with 
Spain. At Chickamauga they were 
reported as being easily broken and 
as sometimes requiring cleansing after 
the filtration of half a bucket of water. 
Many bougies were broken by the use 
of too great force by inexperienced 
men, and filtration was largely aban- 
doned as a result. The best plan waS 
found to consist in concentrating all 
the filters of a regiment at some cen- 
tral point and placing them under the 
supervision of an officer. 

Pasteur - Chamberland Filters. 
These filters are similar in con- 
struction to the Berkefeld apparatus, 
the chief difference lying in the fact 
that the filtering cylinder is composed 
of unglazed porcelain instead of in- 
fusorial earth. The yield of these fil- 
ters is much less than that of the 
Berkefeld filters ; a battery of twelve 
bougies, under a pressure of seventy 
pounds, furnishing only about twenty 
gallons per hour. In the French 
army, for use in barracks, one bougie Flo . 43.-Bertefeid FIIUT tor field ue. 




150 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 44. Hourly Yield of Pasteur-Chamberland Filters as Affected by Clogging of the Pores, 
sequent rises Indicate the cleansing of the filter. (After Laveran.) 



The two sub- 




is allowed for each ten men, this being expected to provide about fifty liters 
of sterile water daily. Clogging of the porcelain occurs rapidly and fil- 
tration is accomplished only at the expense of frequent cleansing; this, 
together with sterilization, being effected 
in the same way as with the Berkefeld 
filter. 

While sterile water is yielded at the 
outset it has repeatedly been shown that 
bacteria appear in the filtrate after a 
period of about a week. Increased press- 
ure seems to favor the appearance of 
these micro-organisms, which, however, 
presumably grow by direct contact rather 
than are mechanically forced through the 
filter bougie. It is evident, therefore, 
that sterilization of the Chamberland and 
Berkefeld apparatus should be accom- 
plished at least once weekly during use. 

The portable Chamberland autockve 
filter, as adopted in the French army, 
weighs about one hundred pounds. The 
results given by this apparatus, used in 
Dahomey, in 1892, and later in Mada- 
gascar, have not been satisfactory as re- 
gards marching troops, although valuable 
for semi-fixed camps or hospitals. On 
these expeditions the filters were kept 
clean with difficulty, proved to be a 
heavy burden for their bearers, especially where the country was rough 
and the vegetation dense, and could not supply a sufficient quantity of 




A B 

FIG. 45. Pasteur-Chamberland Filter, In 
longitudinal section. 



WATER. 



151 



filtered water at short notice on the conclusion of the march In the 
recent British expedition against the Ashantees, the Pasteur filters were 
reported as readily clogged and hard to work. Their use was finally 
abandoned. 

Both the Berkefeld and Chamberland niters, if given proper care serve 
an excellent purpose in garrison. In the field, especially during active 
campaign, the former apparatus is undoubtedly much preferable through 
the greater amount of water it supplies, although by no means without 
serious defects. The transportation of any apparatus of this character may 




Fio. 46. Battery of Pasteur-Chamberland Filters as Used In the French Army. 

often be a matter of the greatest difficulty. During cold weather due care 
must be given these filters to prevent their injury by freezing. 

It is obvious that to store filtered water in an unclean receptacle, or to 
mix it with unfiltered water, is to destroy the special advantage of filtra- 
tion by the Berkefeld or Chamberland apparatus. 

Purification by Chemical Means. While the uuhealthfulness of a 
water is probably rarely due to mineral matter held in suspension, the 
clarification of a turbid water will at times be desirable. Where filters 
are not available such waters may be cleared by sedimentation, the process 
being materially aided by the use of alum. In China, the removal of sus- 
pended matter is thus commonly effected ; the natives stirring the water 
to be clarified with a small bamboo pierced with holes and containing this 
substance. In general, the proportion of 6 grains of alum to the gallon of 
water is sufficient. The method is most satisfactory when calcium car- 
bonate is present in the water, and if this be absent the addition of a little 



152 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

sodium carbonate prior to the use of the alum is advisable. The carbonates 
present in the water readily decompose the alum with the formation of a 
white gelatinous precipitate of aluminum hydrate ; this, together with cal- 
cium sulphate, entangling suspended particles and carrying them down to 
the bottom. The reaction, where the carbonate of calcium is concerned, is 
as follows: K 3 Al, (SO 4 ) 4 + 3 CaCO, + 3 H, O = 3 CaS0 4 + K, S0 4 + 
SCO, + Al. (OH).. 

The time required for the sedimentation of water treated with alum 
is short, and the clear fluid which may soon be decanted off may be 
further purified by boiling or filtration. 

The deposition of the earthy matter held in suspension mechanically 
removes, also, a varying proportion of organic matter and bacterial life. 
In general, the more turbid the water the greater the proportion of germs 
carried down during clarification. De Santi and Lejeune found that most 
of the bacterial life was removed by alum, and Babes went even so far 
as to state that a proportion of one to five thousand is sufficient to sterilize 
drinking-water. Teich, however, found that it was extremely difficult to 
remove all micro-organisms by this method, and states that alum appeared 
to have no directly germicidal properties the typhoid bacillus not being 
destroyed by a strength of one to three thousand, while the vitality of even 
as low a resisting germ as the cholera vibrio was not affected during an ex- 
posure of twenty-four hours. 

The long continued use of alum water is said to induce digestive dis- 
turbances, and its employment as a means of purification is quite inferior 
to modern methods of filtration. It has, however, a practical value for field 
use in the absence of suitable filtering apparatus. 

Where necessity requires the use of an extremely hard water it is often 
advisable, even in the field, to institute measures for its correction, at least 
in limited quantity. Vegetables cooked in hard water turn yellow, and 
beans and peas shrivel and harden. Meat boiled in hard water becomes 
tough and indigestible ; while the use of such water for washing purposes 
is wasteful of both soap and labor. The common cause of hardness of 
water is due to the presence of calcium carbonate and also of the sulphates 
of calcium and magnesia. In pure water, calcium carbonate is soluble 
only to a very slight extent, but in water which holds free carbon dioxide 
in solution, one pound of calcium carbonate can be dissolved in five hundred 
and sixty gallons of water by seven ounces of the gas. It is also soluble 
in water from an almost opposite cause by driving off the carbon dioxide 
from the carbonate and reducing the latter to the oxide. In burning one 
pound of calcium carbonate, seven ounces in weight is lost by the expulsion 
of carbon dioxide, and the remainder, consisting of nine ounces of calcium 
oxide, is then entirely soluble in forty gallons of water. Clark's process 
for removing the hardness of water takes advantage of these facts. The 
water to be softened is mixed with water containing quick-lime in the 
above proportions, when the seven ounces of free carbonic acid gas, which 
held the first one pound of calcium carbonate in solution, combines with 
the nine ounces of quick-lime to form one pound of calcium carbonate; 
and this, together with the first one pound of calcium carbonate no longer 
soluble through the loss of the free carbon dioxide, is precipitated out. 
This process is simple and convenient, but is more advantageously carried 



WATER. 163 

out on a large scale. In the precipitation of calcium carbonate a consider- 
able proportion of suspended matter is also removed. 

Hard waters may also, to a certain degree, be corrected by the addition 
of sodium carbonate. If beans are to be cooked in hard water a small 
pinch of soda to the liter of water is usually sufficient, but where the 
quantity of soda is very great the beans take on an alkaline taste and are 
reduced to a soupy consistency. Where the water is to be used for drink- 
ing, the quantity of soda to be added should be determined by chemical 
analysis. The sodium sulphate so formed is in no way harmful, while the 
resulting calcium carbonate is precipitated out. 

Based on the three methods detailed above, Maignen has devised a 
powder, sold under the trade name of "anticalcaire," for the purification of 
water. This is composed of a mixture of lime, sodium carbonate and 
alum ; the relative proportions being made to vary with the character of 
the water to be purified. Laveran, however, experimenting with this 
powder, was unable to effect the sterilization of water, even when the 
powder was used in the proportion of one to two thousand, although the 
number of bacteria was markedly reduced and clarification was excellent. 
It has not been shown that Maignen' s ]>owder can be employed any great 
length of time without inducing intestinal disorders. 

A ready method of clarifying water, but available in certain regions 
only, consists in the addition of " prickly pear " or cactus leaves which have 
been previously cut up and bruised. The water is preferably allowed to 
clarify over night. 

The use of permanganate of potash for the purification of water, by the 
oxidation of organic matter, has been advised by Schipiloff and others. No 
definite strength can be suggested, since the amount of permanganate of 
potash required necessarily varies with the quantity of organic matter to 
be oxidized. The usual procedure consists in adding small quantities of a 
strong solution of potassium permanganate to the water to be purified, 
stirring constantly during the operation. An excess of the reagent is in- 
dicated by a permanent pink tint, which should remain for at least half 
an hour before being discharged. The rosy color of the permanganate in 
excess can best be discharged by the addition of a weak solution of citric 
acid, or, in its absence, of tartaric acid. Sugar, after inversion by boiling 
with vinegar, may also be used, but its action is slow and considerable 
quantities are required. Experiments by the writer showed that 100 c.c. 
of a .05 per cent, solution of potassium permanganate was decolorized in 
ten minutes by 10 c.c. of a 1 per cent, solution of citric acid, and by 5 c.c. 
of the same solution in thirty-five minutes. Using the same strength of 
permanganate solution, 10 c.c. of a 1 per cent, solution of tartaric acid de- 
colorized 100 c.c. of the permanganate solution in thirty-five minutes, and 
5 c.c. in sixty-five minutes. Chicandard states that water may ordinarily 
be sterilized by the use of 5 to 10 cgm. of the potassium salt to the liter 
of water. Coreil, however, states that as much as 10 to 20 cgm. per liter 
does not sterilize, but merely reduces the number of micro-organisms. 
It is probable that these dissimilar results were due to a difference in the 
amount of organic matter present in the waters examined by these 
observers. Laveran found that, under ordinary circumstances, a strength 
of 0.5 gm. to 0.6 gm. of permanganate to the liter could be depended 



154 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



upon to kill pathogenic bacteria if the exposure were continued for several 
hours. 

One objection to the use of permanganate is that it often communi- 
cates a yellow tint to the water, arising from suspended finely divided 
peroxide of manganese. This is probably of no moment as far as health 
is concerned, but it is unsightly. Sometimes the addition of a little alum 
will carry down this suspended matter ; boiling may be used, but often has 
no effect. Sometimes nothing removes it but filtration. Potassium per- 
manganate readily removes the odor of hydrogen sulphide, and has a spe- 
cial value in destroying the peculiar offensive odor of impure water which 
has been kept in casks or barrels. 

Permanganate of calcium has been suggested by Bordas and Girard for 
use in connection with the purification of water. On contact with organic 
matter this substance rapidly decomposes in the production of oxygen, 
oxide of manganese and lime ; the presence of carbonic acid in the water 
favoring this decomposition through the affinity between lime and carbon 
dioxide. The excess of calcium permanganate remaining in the water is 
removed by filtration through coke and the black oxide of manganese. 

Schumberg has recently described a method of sterilizing water, by the 
use of bromine, which appears to possess a special value for the military 
service. In this method a 20 per cent, solution of bromine is used, thirty 
drops being sufficient to sterilize a quart of water in five minutes. The 
bromine is then neutralized by ammonia in the production of ammonium 
bromide ; thirty drops of a 9 per cent, solution of ammonia being sufficient 
to exactly neutralize. It is desirable that actual neutralization should be 
obtained, although a faint taste of bromine or ammonia is not seriously 
objectionable. In case the water is very hard or foul the bromine may be 
cautiously added until a faint yellow color is produced. 

Watt has proposed the use of perchloride of iron for the sterilization of 
water, this salt being neutralized by calcium hydrate or sodium carbonate. 
This produces the hydroxide, which, on precipitating, carries down the 
micro-organisms in suspension. After sedimentation, the water is filtered. 
The water so obtained is undoubtedly very pure, but the method is open 
to the criticism of using a salt which is itself corrosive to metals and 
which, in common use, would not be free from the danger of accidents. 

It is stated by Christmas that, as far as the cholera vibrio is concerned, 
water may be as surely sterilized by the addition of 0.6 gm. to 0.8 gin. of 
citric or tartaric acid, per liter, as by boiling. This proceeding is very 
simple and may be used with advantage during the prevalence of cholera 
infection. 



CHAPTER V. 

i. 

THE RATION. 

General Consideration of Food. Food is that which, when taken 
in the body, builds up tissue, repairs waste or is consumed in the produc- 
tion of heat and energy. If food be in excess of the requirements of daily 
consumption it may be stored up, chiefly in the form of fat, for future use. 
The best nutritive substances are those which perform their function in the 
most thorough and complete manner ; that is, with as little waste as pos- 
sible and with the best physiological results. They should be digestible 
and palatable, and, when brought together in the diet, should furnish in 
proper amounts the different substances required by the system. The 
latter point, in determining the dietaries of soldiers, is of much imjwrtance. 
It may be assumed that, in general terms, nitrogen and carbon represent 
the materials required. No single article of the ration, however, yields 
these substances in the proportion desired. The soldier confined solely to 
a meat diet would be required to take into his system about four times as 
much nitrogen as would be necessary in order to get sufficient carbon ; 
while a diet of bread alone would overload the organism with carbon be- 
fore a sufficiency of nitrogen was attained. Foods, from their different 
chemical composition, are therefore used most advantageously to supplement 
each other. 

Food-stuffs are usually classified, according to their proximate com- 
position, as follows: 

i Nitrogenous, as proteids or albuminoids. 

I. Organic ] ( () Fats. 

( Non -nitrogenous -j (6) Carbohydrate. 

( (e) Vegetable acids. 

TT r ( Mineral salts. 

Il.-Inorganic j Wa|er 

III. Food accessories, as tea, coffee and condiments. 

The first two classes of food-stuffs are essential to life ; the third class 
is important as favoring palatability and digestibility. 

The true nutrients are protein, fats and carbohydrates ; and these, 
within the organism, serve the following general purposes : 



Protein forms tissue (as muscle, tendon, and fat) 
and serves as fuel 

Fats form fatty tissue (not muscle) and serve as 
fuel 

Carbohydrates are transformed into fat and serve 
a* fuel. . 



All yield energy in form 



.11 vieUJ 

of In a 



heat and muscular 



strength. 



The protein and fats of body tissue are used like those of food. In 
being themselves burned to yield energy the nutrients protect each other 
from being consumed. An important use of the carbohydrates and fats is to 
protect protein from consumption. All foods contain water in considerable 



156 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

but varying proportion ; and many of them contain considerable material, 
as the bone of meat and the skins of potatoes, which cannot be employed 
for purposes of nutrition. In the adjusting of diet to the demands of the 
body, the important matter is to provide enough protein for the building 
and repair of tissue, and enough energy to keep it warm and do its work. 
Considering the body as a machine, there must be material to construct it 
and keep it in repair, and fuel to supply heat and power. If there is 
not food enough, or the nutrients are not in the right proportions, the body 
will be weak in its structure and inefficient in its work. So, likewise, if 
there is too much, damage to health will ultimately result. The latter con- 
tingency is scarcely to be apprehended in the military service. 

While fats and carbohydrates may within certain limits replace each 
other in the dietary, neither can take the place of protein. A sufficient 
supply of the latter is essential, and if the income of nitrogen, which is 
present in food only in protein, be not equivalent to the outgo the amount 
of the latter varying with the individual and the work to be performed 
a condition of inanition, resulting in death if the deprivation of 
protein be sufficiently continued, is certain to ensue ; although for a time 
the muscles will carry on work at the expense of their own albuminous 
constituents. On the other hand a large excess of nitrogenous material 
in the diet is undesirable ; and it is of advantage if the amount of protein 
taken in as food can be reduced, through the ingestion of a proper amount 
of fats and carbohydrates, to about the point required for constructive 
and reparative purposes alone. Protein is a source of energy, as well as 
of repair, in the body ; but it is undesirable to employ it for the former 
purpose, since its oxidation leaves behind a large amount of nitrogenous 
matter which must be passed out of the organism as an excrementitious 
body. No constant figure can be given as to the amount of protein which 
should be taken as food by each individual, but physiologists are agreed 
that 150 gm. of protein may be regarded as sufficient for the needs of men 
at such labor as may be required of the soldier. The amount of nitrogen 
is found by dividing the amount of protein by the factor 6.25. 

Fats find their use as sources of energy and heat to the body. Fat 
has a place in all dietaries, its relative proportion in the food consumed 
being much increased in cold climates. When hard work is to be per- 
formed fat is also instinctively taken, since it possesses a high calorific and 
potential value. The amount of fats consumed by inhabitants of the 
United States is considerably greater than that used by corresponding classes 
in other countries of the temperate zone, and our military ration is also far 
superior to those of foreign armies in respect to its fatty constituents. 

The consumption of carbohydrates not only spares proteid food but also 
fat, being utilized in the production of heat and energy. As compared 
with fats, carbohydrates are a less concentrated fuel; but they may be 
transformed into the latter in the body and thus become a reserve source 
of energy and warmth. The greater proportion of carbohydrates are, how- 
ever, directly consumed within the body; and excess of carbohydrates, 
owing to the bulk of the food taken, appears to derange digestion. 

The inorganic constituents of food, especially water and sodium chlo- 
ride, play an important part in the dietary. Death ultimately follows de- 
privation of the two constituents named. 



THE RATION. 157 

An important point with respect to the 'nutritive value of foods is 
their digestibility, since it is evident that only such portion as can be re- 
duced to a condition in which it may be absorbed will be of value to the 
economy. Much experimental work has been done on this point, and the 
results obtained may be briefly summarized as follows : 

1. The protein of ordinary meats and fish is very readily and com- 
pletely digested. The protein of vegetable foods is much less completely 
digested than that of animal foods. Of that of potatoes, whole wheat and 
rye flour, one-fourth or even one-third may escape digestion and thus be 
useless for nourishment. Roughly speaking, one-sixth or one-seventh of 
the protein of wheat flour, corn meal, beans and peas may be assumed to 
be undigested when cooked and eaten in the usual way. With inexperi- 
enced cooks, and especially in the field, a still greater proportion may be 
unavailable for nutritive purposes through lack of proper preparation. 

2. Much of the fats of animal food may at times fail of digestion. 
This is presumably true of vegetable fats, but the quantities are in general 
so small that the determinations of the proportions digested are not yerv 
accurate. The experiments thus far made imply that perhaps five per 
cent, of the fat of meats, butter and lard will escape digestion as they are 
ordinarily eaten. 

3. The carbohydrates, which make up a large part of vegetable food, 
are in general very completely digestible. The crude fiber or cellulose is 
an exception ; but the quantities of this in the materials used for the food 
of man are too small to be of importance. Sugar is believed to be com- 
pletely digested. The carbohydrates of animal foods are very small in 
amount. 

4. The animal foods have, in general, the advantage of the vegetable 
foods in digestibility, in that they contain more protein and that their pro- 
tein is more digestible. 

5. The quantity digested appears to be less affected by flavor, flavor- 
ing materials and food adjuncts, and to differ less with different persons, 
than is commonly supposed. 

Relation of Food to the Work of the Soldier. For the military 
service a knowledge of the potential energy latent in food is desirable 
in calculating the amount and character of the nutritious substances 
capable of yielding sufficient energy for the performance of a definite 
amount of external muscular work ; since force manifested in the living 
body must be the correlative expression of force previously latent in the 
food eaten or the tissue formed. This potential energy latent in nutritive 
material can be measured like heat or mechanical power; and work to be 
done may be calculated in foot-tons, which can also be readily expressed 
in terms of food or foods. In practice, however, such a calculation is not 
exact and is only of relative value, since the mere expression of potential 
energy cannot exactly fix a dietetic value which may be dependent on 
conditions of the body unknown to us. Experiments made by Helmholtz 
seem to show that this external work should be one-sixth to one-fifth of 
the mechanical force latent in the digestive food, but conditions must be 
very favorable to obtain this proportion, and in practice probably only one- 
sixth to one-seventh may be expected. It is obvious that, given a definite 
amount of nutritive fuel capable of conversion into heat or energy, the re- 



158 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



quirements of the system would be greater, in respect to the former, in a 
cold climate than in a warmer one, and the energy available from the com- 
bustion of this food would be proportionately diminished by the greater 
expenditure for heat. Hence a diet sufficient for the accomplishment of a 
certain number of foot-tons of labor in the United States should properly be 
increased for troops performing the same amount of labor in Alaska or 
along the Canadian border or could be safely diminished for tropical service. 
The unit commonly used for the measurement of the fuel value of food 
is the large calorie, this being the amount of heat which would raise the 
temperature of 1 kilogram of water 1 C., or 1 pound of water 4 F. The 
same word " calorie " is used also to designate the heat required to raise the 
temperature of 1 gm. of water 1 C. The large calorie is usually spelled 
with a capital "C," and represents 1,000 of the small calories. In this 
work the large Calorie only will be employed. The English heat unit is 
sometimes used in calculating diets ; this being the amount of heat re- 
quired to raise the temperature of 1 pound of water 1 F.,and representing 
the dynamic equivalent of the power required to raise 772 pounds to the 
height of 1 foot. Usually, in estimating the potential value of dietaries, 
the unit of mechanical energy employed is the foot-ton, 2,240 pounds 
raised through 1 foot, of which the English heat unit obviously equals 
about one-third. One Calorie thus corresponds to very nearly 1.53 foot- 
tons. Taking ordinary food materials as they come, the following general 
estimate has been made for the average fuel value of 1 gm. of each of the 
proximate of nutrient principles : 





Calories of heat. 


Foot-tons of energy. 


In 1 gm. of protein there are latent 


4.1 


6.3 


In 1 gm. of fats there are latent 


9.3 


14.2 


In 1 em. of carbohydrates there are latent . . 


4.1 


6.3 



These figures mean that when a gram of fat, be it the fat of food or 
body fat, is consumed in the body, it will, if its potential energy be trans- 
formed into heat, yield enough of the latter to warm 9.3 kilograms of water 
1 C., or 4 pounds of water 1 F. ; t>r, if it be transformed into mechani- 
cal energy, such as the muscles use to do their work, it will furnish as 
much as would raise 1 ton 14 feet, or 14 tons 1 foot. A gram of 
protein or carbohydrates yields a little less than half as much energy as a 
gram of fat. 

Using the above figures and knowing the percentage composition of 
the articles of the rations as given later the amounts and proportions of 
the food theoretically required to furnish the energy for any given amount 
of external muscular work can readily be calculated. For practical appli- 
cation, however, it is necessary to know about the amount of external mus- 
cular work performed by the soldier under various conditions the average 
limit of human endurance for adult males being generally put at about five 
hundred foot-tons, during the twenty-four hours, in temperate climates. 
The expenditure of this great amount of energy, however, could not be con- 
tinued any great length of time. Assuming the principal work of the 
soldier to consist in marching, walking at three miles per hour, as stated 
elsewhere, is equivalent to raising one-twentieth part of the weight of the 



THE RATION. 159 

body through the distance walked. Using this calculation, and assuming 
the soldien with his clothing to weigh one hundred and sixty pounds, the 
following figures are obtained for the energy required in marching on level 
ground : 

Work done in too* 
lifted one foot. 

Marching one mile 18.86 

two miles :',77> 

ten " '....'.'.'.'..'.'.'. 198.90 

twenty 877.30 

one mile and carrying sixty pounds 25.98 

two miles " "*.... M ; 

ten tt " " .....'....*.*.*! 259^98 

twenty" - 518.60 

In practice, however, the ground over which the soldier marches can- 
not be regarded as level, while the weight of the accoutrements is rarely 
adjusted correctly. Military drill without arms is estimated by Hickman 
as being one-third more fatiguing than ordinary walking, and four hours' 
drill for recruits as being equivalent to the daily work of the ordinary 
agricultural laborer. The duties of the soldier outside of marching are 
very various and obviously cannot all be, in practice, reduced to exact 
figures in foot-tons. In general, however, the daily output of energy may 
be estimated with sufficient accuracy by comparing the muscular exhaus- 
tion resulting from any task with the labor expended in marching, as cal- 
culated above. Taking all things into consideration, three hundred and 
fifty foot-tons may be accepted as a fair estimate of the average day's 
labor which may be performed by the soldier. In considering the amount 
of food required, however, a certain excess over the quantity sufficient to 
furnish energy for the accomplishment of these three hundred and fifty 
foot-tons of work should be allowed, since there should be a certain 
amount of reserve force upon which the soldier may draw during unusual 
trial and hardship. Exactly how much food is considered by physiologists 
to be required by men performing hard manual labor, equal to that de- 
manded of the soldier, and what its proximate character should be, is con- 
sidered subsequently. 

Requirements of the Soldier's Dietary and Ration. The con- 
ditions governing a perfect dietary may be considered to consist in : 

1. The determination of the real nutritive wants of the body under 
different labor and climate. 

2. A proper selection of food as regards quality, nutritive power, ap- 
petizing property and digestibility. 

3. The association of foods in such wise as not to offend the appetite 
or burden the digestive powers. 

4. A right treatment of nutritive substances by cooking, so as to ren- 
der them most useful to the system. 

5. A just distribution of the daily diet in appropriate meals. 

These conditions especially apply to the soldier, who, considered as a 
machine, must be kept in good repair and supplied with sufficient motive 
power. A deficiency in nutritive material means diminished vital resist- 
ance and impaired strength, which for a time incapacitates the individual 
and renders him unable to fulfil his duties. It is most important that 
work done by the soldier should be evolved from the food taken and not 



160 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

from the tissues of the body, since sickness will otherwise ultimately 
result. Only in great emergency, and then but for brief periods, should 
the tissues be called upon for the production of energy: 

As to the special qualities of the military ration, in addition to pos- 
sessing adequate nutritive value, its components should be sufficient in 
number to afford a reasonable variety to the food consumed by the soldier. 
They should also be easy of preparation. Since troops must often be fed 
at considerable distances from the point of supply, it is evident that the 
articles included in the ration must be readily transportable and easily pre- 
served. Bulky articles offer obvious disadvantages, and hence the ration 



Nutrinie ingredient*, refute,- and fuel value. 
Nutrient*. Non-nntrint. 



Protein .1 Fata. Carbo-T Mineral 
hydrate*, matters. 



Water. Refuse. 



Fuel rain*. 
Calorie*. 



Igftft IBOO 2000 2400 28UO 3200 "3600 




FIG. 47. Proportionate Composition of the Chief Food Materials Entering into the United States Army 

Ration. (After Atwater.) 

must largely be dry ; but, on the other hand, a certain amount of fresh 
food is necessary to health. Coupled with these requirements, the nutri- 
tive substances must be so inexpensive as to refute any charges of extrava- 
gance, and must be articles abundantly produced and commonly consumed 
within the limits of the state. From the circumstances of the case, the 
character of the food available for use in the field in time of war is neces- 
sarily somewhat different from that issued in garrison in time of peace. 

Quantity of Ration. In the United States army the nutrition 6f the 
soldier depends on the allowance of food or ration provided at govern- 
ment expense ; on the additional food purchased from the funds accruing 
from the post exchange and the disposal of salable property ; the food pur- 
chased by the soldier from his private resources and eaten by him at the 
post exchange or other resort ; and the food furnished by post gardens and 
by hunting and fishing parties. Of these, the first is by far the most im- 



THE RATION. 



161 



portant, the other sources of supply being merely supplementary to it and 
by no means constant. Particularly is this the case in the Held, where a 
liberal supply of nutritive substances is most desirable and yet where the 
means of supplementing the ration by gardens, exchange dividends or per- 
sonal outlay is naturally wanting. The ration by itself, therefore, should 
supply to the soldier a quantity and variety of articles of food which, under 
proper manipulation, should yield dietaries of moderate nutritive value for 
the routine duties of garrison life or should be capable of furnishing suffi- 
cient energy and of repairing body waste under any of the conditions under 
which troops may be forced to campaign. Nothing should be left, with 
regard to food, to chance or opportunity. Insufficient nourishment directly 
disposes to disease by lowering the powers of vital resistance ; and from 
the economic view a weak, under-fed soldier is no soldier, costing the na- 
tion to support him more than his services are worth. Particularly in the 
field must the allowance of food be liberal. The average appetite of the 
command is the theoretical measure of this allowance, but in practice this 
should be exceeded to afford a margin or surplus for contingencies. Over- 
feeding may have its dangers, but these are scarcely to be dreaded in the 
military service. Armies have been disarmed by a deficient dietary, but 
never by over-feeding consequent on the establishment of a liberal ration. 
Bearing these facts in mind, it is important to gain an understanding as 
to the sufficiency and composition of the ration supplied the soldier, both 
with regard to its individual components and as a whole. The following 
table, compiled from data elaborated by Atwater and Bryant, shows the 
quantities, chemical composition and nutrient values of the various articles 
of the ration as at present issued in our service : 



Articles of Ration. 


Quantities 
per ration, 
ounces. 


AMOUNTS PRESENT IN RATION 
(GRAMS). 


Fuel value 
prrrmtta, 

Calon.it. 


1 


Z 


t 


a 


Fresh beef (fore and hind quarters) 
Or Fresh mutton 


20 
20 
12 
12 
22 
14 
18 
18 
16 
18 
18 
16 
20 

16 
16 

16 
2 


88.85 
92.4 

.V, iis 
81.28 
88.6 
68.52 
40.8 
70.90 
ss .!_ 

.-,-, IIS 

48.45 
65.7 
50.4 
15.16 
8.5 
16.88 
8.69 
9.5 

8.6 

8.16 
1.18 


18.8 
14.7 
8.8 
4.99 
14.16 
10.16 
6.5 
11.18 
14.14 
7.9 
6.9 
10.44 
7.99 
2.42 
.56 
2.62 
.59 
1.52 

1.4 

1.80 
.19 


89.5 
125.8 
225.08 
210.12 
142.8 
1.59 
1.02 

IMS 1 } 

84.00 
5.6 
6.12 
5.9 
12.4 
1.22 
.18 
.75 
.-'7 
.45 

.72 

.58 
1.02 


880.46 

jr.*.. > 
HO B 
rj:, - 
40.18 
:<:, :,:, 
41.8 
:{.-, :, 
81.7 

78.00 

62.59 
88.8 


1,180 
1.440 
J 1-7 
1,080 
1.584 
JT.i 
155 
i M 
680 

1 s;,o 

1 H.V, 

1.712 

1 !.; 

Mfl 
168 
IM 

m 

880 
840 

97 
147 


Pork 


Bacon 


Salt beef 


Dried fish (cod) 


Fresh fish (cod whole) 


Pickled fish (mackerel) 




Flour 


Or Soft bread 


Hard bread 


Cornmeal 


Beans 


Or Rice 


Peas 


Hominy 


Potatoes ' 


Or Potatoes 80 per cent. , and onions 
20 per cent 


Potatoes 70 per cent., and canned 
tomatoes 80 per cent 


Dried fruits (average of varieties issued) 



11 



162 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Articles of Ration. 


Quantities 
per ration, 
ounces. 


AMOUNTS PRESENT IN RATION 

(GRAMS). 


Fuel value 
per ration, 
Calories. 


Protein. 


i 


i 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Sugar 


2| 
H gill- 

\ 
*f 

A 








64.6 
41.25 
41.86 


264 
198 
198 


Or Molasses . . 








Cane syrup 








Coffee, green ; . . 








Or Coffee, roasted 


Tea, green or black 


Vinegar 


Salt 


Pepper 


Baking powder 


Soap 


Candles 





From the above table it is at once apparent that the ordinary variation 
of the articles composing the food of the soldier, as contemplated in the 
establishment of alternative components of the ration, does not furnish 
dietaries of the same proximate composition or nutritive value. Using the 
figures just given, the proximate composition and nutrient value of the 
maximum quantity of food material which may be drawn as a daily allow- 
ance by the United States soldier are seen to be as follows : 



Articles. 


Quantity 
in 
ounces. 


Fats, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Protein, 
grams. 


Nitrogen, 
grams. 


Fuel value. 
Calories. 


Fresh beef 


20 


89.50 




83.35 


13 30 


1 180 


Flour 


18 


5.60 


380.46 


55.08 


7 90 


1 850 


Ueans 


2.4 


1 22 


40.18 


15 16 


242 


240 


Potatoes 


16 


.45 


81.70 


9.30 


1.52 


380 


Dried fruit 


2 


1.02 


33.80 


1.18 


.19 


147 


Sugar 


2.4 




64.60 






264 
















Total 


60.8 


97.79 


600 74 


16427 


25 33 


4061 


















Total carbon, 427.03 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1 : 17. 



In the following table are included those articles of food which, taken 
together, may be considered to constitute the ordinary ration for troops 
in the field or during active campaign. No fresh vegetables are considered 
in this dietary. 



Articles. 


Quantity 
in 
ounces. 


Fats, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Protein, 
grams. 


Nitrogen, 
grains. 


Fuel value. 
Calories. 


Bacon 


12 


210.12 




81.28 


4.99 


2.085 


Hard bread 


16 


5.90 


380.50 


65.70 


10.44 


1,712 


Beans 


2.4 


1.22 


40.18 


15.16 


2.42 


240 


Dried fruit 


2 


1.02 


:w HO 


1.18 


.27 


147 


Sugar 


2.4 




64 60 






264 
















Total 


84.8 


218 26 


48908 


11832 


18.12 


4,448 

















Total carbon, 432.78 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1 : 28.8. 



THE RATION. 



163 



A selection of food-stuffs contained in the ration commonly employed by 
troops in garrison is given in the following table, but to the figures yielded 
by them must in practice be added those for whatever additional foods 
might be purchased from the savings in .flour, beans and other articles, 
possible with this dietary : 



Articles. 


Quantity 
in 
ounces. 


Fate, 

tfmm.s. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


ProMn, 

KTHI11M. 


Nitrogen, 
grams. 


Fuel value, 
CaJoru*. 


Fresh beef 


20 


89.50 




83 35 


13 30 


1 180 


Soft bread 


18 


6.12 


26928 


4845 


6 90 


1 :;:,:, 


Potatoes and onions . 


16 


.72 


73 09 


8 60 


1 40 


840 


Dried fruit 


2 


1.02 


33.80 


1.18 


.19 


147 


Sugar 


2.4 




64.60 






264 
















Total. 


58.4 


97.36 


440.77 


141.58 


21.79 


8 .".; 



Total carbon, 344.57 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1 : 16.3. 



In the following dietary a combination is given in which a full daily 
allowance from each component of the ration is included. This dietary 
represents the least amount of nutritive material which can l>e drawn by 
the United States soldier ; but to it, as in the previous instance, should be 
added the additional articles of food which would l>e purchased from the sav- 
ings on flour, coffee and vinegar, thus considerably increasing its nutritive 
value. 



Articles. 


Quantity 
in 
ounces. 


Fate, 

Drains. 


Carho- 

tlMlr.lt.>, 

grams. 


Protein, 
grama. 


Nitrogen, 
grams* 


Fuel value. 

( .... riv. 


Fresh fish (cod, whole). . . 
Soft bread 


18 
18 


1.02 
6.12 


269.28 


40.80 
48.45 


6.50 
6.90 


155 
1,855 


Rice 


1.6 


.18 


35.55 


8.50 


.86 


163 


Potatoes and tomatoes. . . 
Dried fruits 


16 
2 


.54 

1.02 


65.80 
33.80 


8.17 
1.18 


1.36 
.19 


297 
147 


Sugar 


2.4 




64.60 




.... 


-'. I 
















Total 


56 


8.88 


409.08 


102.10 


15.51 


2,321 

















Total carbon, 241.84 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1 : 16.7. 



In considering the sufficiency of the ration the maximum allowance 
which can be drawn, as given in the first dietary, will alone be of impor- 
tance ; and this should be compared with accepted dietary standards as 
determined for the corresponding laboring classes in civil life. These are 
variously given by Atwater, for different countries, as follows : 





Protein, 
grams. 


Fata, 
grams. 


OarbohydraU-a, 
grama. 


Fuel value, 
Calorie*. 


Active muscular labor. Atwater (Amer- 
ican standard) 


150 
145.12 
154.19 


150 
99.77 

7-J .V, 


500 
448.96 
566.87 


t .Mill 

8,870 
8,680 


Men at hard work. Voit (German 


Active laborers, 
standard) 


Play fair (English 



164 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

On comparing the American standard proposed by Atwater with the 
combination of components of the ration given in the first dietary, noted 
above, it is seen that the fuel value almost exactly corresponds in both. 
The fats are somewhat deficient in the ration dietary, but the carbohydrates 
and protein are in excess-. Ordinarily in our service, however, in each ten 
days there are seven issues of fresh meat and three of bacon and pork. 
This makes a considerable change in the character of the dietary; and, sub- 
stituting the average figures of the beef and bacon issues for those of beef 
alone, the nutrient value and composition of the maximum food allowance 
for the soldier is seen to be as follows : 



Protein, grams. 


Fats, grams. 


Carbohydrates, grams. 


Fuel value. Calories. 


152.79 


134.97 


600.74 


4,332 



This dietary has a force-value somewhat higher than the standard men- 
tioned above, and the carbohydrates are also in excess. The deficiency in 
fats is but slight, while the amount of protein is seen to be almost exactly 
the theoretical normal for this country. As a whole, and in each of its 
proximate principles, the United States army ration is much superior in 
nutritive value to the allowance of food which is regarded by foreign au- 
thorities as quite sufficient for the needs of men at hard labor in England 
and Germany. 

As shown by the above figures, the food- value of the ration is in con- 
siderable excess of the nutritive material found by Atwater to be actually 
eaten in the training diets of the Yale and Harvard University crews dur- 
ing the hard labor of the racing season of 1898. These diets gave the fol- 
lowing averaga: 



Protein, grams. 


Fat, grams. 


Carbohydrates, grams. 


Fuel value, Calories. 


155 


177 


440 


4,085 



From these and numerous similar results it may be fairly accepted that 
according to American standards of diet, which are much higher than those 
obtaining abroad, the United States army ration is somewhat more than 
sufficient to meet all the demands of active muscular labor in a temperate 
climate. That this is, indeed, the case is shown not only by comparison of 
the ration with the above standards, but also by long practical and satisfac- 
tory experience with its use in garrison and in the field, and the fact that 
recruits subsisting upon it gain largely in weight and attain a high degree 
of physical development. As shown later, the standard ration is in excess 
of the physiological needs of the soldier on tropical service, but, on the 
other hand, it is undoubtedly insufficient for service in the far north. 
Atwater' s more recent investigations place the American standard for ex- 
hausting labor at forty-five hundred Calories. Hence for a continuous win- 
ter campaign of arduous nature the ration could with advantage be slightly 
supplemented by special issues, varying in quantity according to circum- 
stances. In such instances the additions should be chiefly in the line of 
an increase in protein and fats, especially the latter, as expressed in the 
beans and bacon components. 



THE RATION. 



165 



In connection with the question of the sufficiency of our ration the fol- 
lowing analyses of the several rations of the German army, as given by 
Atwater, are instructive : 



German army. 


Protein, 
grams. 


Fats, 
grains. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel value. 
Calories. 


Nutrltlve ratio 
(protein 
to energy). 


Ration, peace footing 


118 37 


40 gi 


ISM 71 


> 8nn 




Ordinary ration, war footing. . . 
Extraordinary ration, war 
footing . . . 


136.05 
19047 


58.95 
45 85 


489.78 

ft7ft 71 


8,006 

8i ls - 


5.U 
4.6 












.1 



From this it will be seen that even the maximum German ration is 
quite inferior to our food allowance except in the matter of protein, and 
in this respect the German ration is undoubtedly unduly high. 

It is of interest to note, also, the limited quantities of food under which 
troops can perform efficient military service. According to Dunlop, the 
food value of the rations issued to British troops lately besieged in Lady- 
smith, South Africa, yielded but 73.4 gm. of protein, 69.7 gm. of faU and 
141.6 gm. of carbohydrates. The fuel- value of this ration was but 1,527 
Calories. This diet is extremely small, being even less than prison or 
poorhouse diets for persons at rest, yet it furnished a sufficient supply of 
energy for a stout and successful resistance, extending over a considerable 
period. Of course the performance of hard marching with such a dietary 
would have been quite impossible. 

In this connection it may be remarked that while some men eat more 
than others at all periods of their lives, it is an almost universal rule that 
the young and growing eat and require more food than do those whose 
development is complete. The same applies also to such as have been 
long under-fed before their enlistment. The gluttony of men recently 
enlisted is a constant source of surprise to old soldiers, and it is well to 
give such immature recruits the desired sense of fullness by the liberal 
supply of bulky vegetable foods. For such men to eat of concentrated 
foods to satiety is to invite sickness. 

Quality of Ration. While the quantity of food supplied to the sol- 
dier is denned by regulations, its quality is largely dependent on the effi- 
ciency of the Subsistence Department and its preparation for use lies with 
the consumers. It is obvious that quality is a factor of the greatest impor- 
tance, since an inferior character of supplies means that the soldier does 
not receive subsistence of the nutritive value to which he is entitled. The 
various methods for the determination of quality in the articles of the 
ration are detailed in the special mention given them subsequently, and it 
will here be only remarked that the issue of stores as far as possible in the 
order in which they are received, as required by existing rules, will often 
result in the sale of articles which have undergone certain deterioration; 
fresh articles lately received in stock perhaps remaining in store to their 
detriment until their time for issue arrives. This plan undoubtedly results 
in a saving to the Government, but is not always to the best interests of the 
soldier. To limit the bad effects of this rule it is desirable that the supply 
of perishable articles, as kept on hand by the commissar)', should be suf- 
ficient for a period of not more than one month. 



166 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Variety in Ration. Variety, in food, is craved by all. However 
good a single article may be in itself, its continued and exclusive use for 
any length of time is sure to inspire distaste and consequently to impair its 
nutritive value. Nutrition depends on assimilation, and assimilation on 
the tone of the digestive tract, manifesting itself in taste and relish. Mal- 
nutrition arises from sameness of diet almost as surely as from deficient 
quantity, and the character of the organic tissues requires that their repara- 
tive material be gathered from many sources ; the distaste and loss of appe- 
tite which follow the use of an unvaried dietary, however well arranged it 
may be as to its carbonaceous and azotized proportions, shows that it does 
not-fultill all the requirements of the system. The company officer should 
therefore use every effort constantly to vary the diet of his men, bearing in 
mind that by this means he secures the proper nutritive elements, in due 
proportion, in the surest and most economical manner. 

The army ration is uniform throughout the country regardless of local- 
ity, climate or duty. Manifestly it can be exactly suitable only within 
very narrow conditions, if indeed perfectly to any. Bearing in mind that 
in tropical countries carbohydrates form the staple, while a mixed dietary 
is used in temperate climates, and fuel foods, or fats, are required under 
low temperatures, the diet of troops should be suitably modified in these 
respects according to their geographical distribution. It is obvious that 
special regulations for soldiers' fare cannot be promulgated to suit each lo- 
cality and circumstance ; and, with intelligent supervision on the part of 
officers, these are quite unnecessary. The alternative portions of the ration 
give it a wide range, which may be further increased by the exchange or 
sale of surplus parts and the purchase of other foods with the accruing 
funds ; and the proper selection of these should be the constant study of 
the company officer. In addition to those of climate, the physiological 
requirements of the system, dependent on duty or season, should also be 
given consideration. In the field, variety in food is necessarily restricted 
as compared with garrison life depending chiefly'upon difficulty of supply, 
but also to some extent on the inefficiency of cooking utensils. The nearer 
the camp to a base of supply, or the more permanent it is, the more easily 
will the food be approximated to what is used in garrison. 

Since a certain degree of sameness necessarily attaches to the most 
liberal government issue of food, any method which enlarges the scope of 
its nutritive qualities is valuable. Experience shows that variety of cook- 
ing answers many of the purposes of variety of diet, and the necessity for 
a good cook in the company kitchen is obvious. Simplicity in preparing 
food by no means militates against a certain degree of variety ; and it may 
be expected that a cook who provides but one dish for a meal will prove 
expensive and unsatisfactory. A temporary change of cooks, from time to 
time, is often of benefit, since it brings into use varied methods of prepara- 
tion; and constant supervision of the bills of fare, on the part of company 
officers, will tend to neutralize the tendencies of the kitchen to faU into 
routinism. 

This question of variety in cooking, important as it is now conceded to 
be, was long completely disregarded in most armies, our own being some- 
what better off in this respect. Until as late as 1886, variety in cooking 
was not prescribed in the French army; and, until 1850, soup made of 



THE RATION. 167 

beef, bread and vegetables was the only food served to French soldiers 
at each of their two daily meals. This monotony of preparation was said 
to have done much to prevent a proper utilization of the ration. As late 
as 1857, testimony before the committee investigating into the condition 
of the British army showed that at that time a company was provided 
with two boilers, in one of which the men boiled their meat and in the 
other their potatoes. A soldier ate this diet from the date of his enlist- 
ment to his discharge ; living on boiled meat, if he completed his service, 
for twenty-one years. Although the meat ration was scarcely adequate, a 
large portion was unused, as the men became sickened at the monotony in 
its preparation. There was no means of cooking the ration except by boil- 
ing. 

Before leaving this subject it may here be emphasized that an abun- 
dance of properly varied, well-cooked food does much to promote content- 
ment among troops. The palatability of his food is no less important to 
the soldier than to others, and attention bestowed on the company mess has 
no small influence in preventing dissatisfaction and desertions. 

Wastage of Ration. When proper economy in its administration 
is secured, the quantity of the authorized ration is sufficient. Through 
indifference on the part of the company commander, and with ignorance or 
lack of judgment on the part of the cook, the wastage of the ration may 
be so great as to bring its sufficiency into question. With raw soldiers, 
inexperienced officers and untrained cooks, as found in the volunteer forces, 
the wastage of the ration is often serious in this respect. A certain amount 
of loss is unavoidable such as is due to the rotting of vegetables, their 
paring for the table or the presence of bone in meat but outside of this, 
where there are efficient cooks, the kitchen waste should contain practically 
nothing of any food value to the soldier. Not only should every effort be 
made to prevent unnecessary loss in cooking, and to utilize all residues, 
but care should be had in the mess hall, while allowing sufficient food, to 
take all precautions against issuing portions larger than will presumably 
be utilized. Small portions, repeated if desired, should be the rule. The 
small amount of refuse left on an individual plate may ap|>ear trifling, but 
if this uneaten excess be left throughout a considerable part of the organi- 
zation, it may have a food value equal to that of a number of full rations. 
Great care should be taken to preserve all grease and drippings. Such can 
be largely used in the preparation of food and gravies, and any excess is 
ordinarily salable. In one regiment in the British service it was found 
that the grease thrown out by the kitchens had an annual money value of 
nearly a thousand dollars. Bones, too, after being well boiled in the mak- 
ing of soup, have a commercial value. Woodruff estimated that, for a 
regimental post in Montana, the financial loss per year from bones thrown 
away amounted to a thousand dollars. The other refuse should have a 
value as fertilizer or for the feeding of stock, but in practice there is usually 
no market for it. As mentioned elsewhere, in some companies this 
refuse is fed to hogs, but such a practice is to be discouraged for sanitary 
reasons. 

In a post having a strength of four hundred and forty men, during a 
period of ten days, Woodruff found the wastage in the more important arti- 
cles of the food to be as follows : 



168 THEOKY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Article. 


Per cent, of 
waste. 


Remarks. 


Bacon 


1.40 
8.00 

3.30 
22.50 

27.09 ) 
21.04 V 
33.00 
45.00 
12.00 


Only nine pounds were reported, but this was increased to 
thirty-one pounds to include bones, etc. 
Crusts and small unavoidable wastes. 
Nineteen and three-quarters bone, two and three-quarters 
fat and other wastes. 

Parings and defective ones. 
Stones and other wastes. 

Estimated. 


Pork 


Bread 


Beef 


Potatoes 


Onions 


Prunes 


Cabbage 


Ham 





A wasteful cook, no matter what his other virtues, is always undesir- 
able. In the general mess at Jefferson Barracks the civilian head-cook, 
paid by the mess at the rate of $1,000 per year, was shown to save the 
mess twice his salary through his superior economy ; while at the hospital 
of the Soldiers' Home it was recently found that the chief cook effected a 
saving, over his predecessor, amounting to nearly $150 monthly. In both 
instances the men lived better than under a more wasteful administration. 

Savings from Ration. While no savings are permitted on fresh 
meat, fresh vegetables or dried fruit, with due economy some other por- 
tions of the ration will be saved and sold. The quantities naturally vary 
with different conditions of which efficient management is most impor- 
tant. Climate and the nature of the service also have considerable influence 
in this respect. Ordinarily the cheaper articles will be drawn for use, and 
those of higher cost saved and their money value turned into the company 
fund. In many instances the local market rates are higher than the prices 
at which articles of the ration are sold by the Government. In such cases 
the company commander will draw his full allowance and dispose of any 
surplus to best advantage outside the camp or garrison. Most of the 
savings are made on flour and bacon, with smaller amounts on the other 
articles of the ration. The allowance of sugar is always required for use ; 
generally some of the coffee can be saved, tea rarely. The condiment al- 
lowance is generally in excess. Food purchased from savings must not be 
regarded as in any way adding to the food allowance of the soldier, but as 
merely replacing other nutritive substances to the benefit of which he 
would otherwise be entitled. It may sometimes happen that certain arti- 
cles are cheaper in the local markets than as supplied by the commissary ; 
but ordinarily it is not true economy, quality being considered, to purchase 
outside food of the kinds which may be bought from the Government. In 
the field, especially during campaign, but little if any savings can be made 
from the ration; certainly none are supposed to be made. If they are 
made, it is questionable whether the commissary will have the purchasable 
articles on hand, since great difficulty is often experienced in keeping teven 
the articles of regular issue available for troops. In general, the savings 
from the ration in garrison, under proper administration, will so supple- 
ment the diet as to supply abundantly all the actual needs of the com- 
mand, though naturally falling short of luxury. 

In the field no back rations are issued, and a command must draw its 
allowance when due or go without. Generally deprived of markets as 



THE RATION. 169 

well as outside sources of revenue, marching soldiers fare worse for food 
than those in garrison and at the same time their nutritive requirements 
are greater. 

Additions to Ration. In garrison, the additions to the food fur- 
nished by the Government for the subsistence of the soldier will usually 
be considerable, and hence the articles and allowances of the legal ration 
by no means show what is actually consumed. Money is received in 
varying amounts from outside sources, independent of the savings on the 
ration proper, and this is almost wholly used for the purchase of such extra 
articles of diet as may be desired. Woodruff found that in a garrison of 
four hundred and forty men, during a period of three months, the average 
daily receipts and expenditures per man were as follows : 

From ration 2.72 cento. 

From post exchange 2.58 

From other sources 84 

Total receipts 5.64 u 

Expenditures for extra food 4.11 

These figures, not including the savings from the ration itself, gave an in- 
crease to the soldier amounting to about one-fifth the value of the author- 
ized ration. The savings from the ration are wisely not permitted to be 
used other than for the benefit of the soldiers' fare, and practically most of 
the money accruing from outside sources is devoted to the same purpose. 
Funds of this character should not be allowed to accumulate to large 
amounts and lie idle, since the soldier is entitled to an early share in the 
savings or exchange dividends which he has helj*d to create. On the 
other hand, a small reserve should be gradually acquired ; so that when 
troops take the field and are reduced to subsistence on the bare ration, 
there should be a sufficient fund to permit the purchase of a fair amount of 
fresh food when it can be obtained. The limits of the company fund 
should be prescribed in orders, a reserve of $2 per man being sufficient. 
This sum would permit the daily expenditure of 2.2 cents per capita, out- 
side the savings from the ration, for a period of three months. Troops 
will rarely be in the field, and without exchange dividends, for a longer 
period than this except during actual warfare. The latter contingency is 
so infrequently realized, and its probable duration is so completely leyond 
the powers of human calculation, that any effort to accumulate a large fund 
better to meet such conditions would not be justified. As to the expendi- 
ture of the company fund, the mere purchase of articles of food is a simple 
matter. To do so judiciously and to the best advantage should be the 
constant study of the line officer, and prove a subject about which he will 
learn to the kst day of his service. To this end the nutritive and eco- 
nomic values of foods, the habits and tastes of the men and the skill of 
the cook in various methods of preparation will all receive due considera- 
tion. In general, variety will be sought and price and liability to deteri- 
oration will be fully considered. 

Cooking of Ration. Each soldier is supposed to be capable of ( 
ing his own ration in a manner consistent with the preservation of health. 
To assist in obtaining this object an excellent cook-book is issued, but, as 



170 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

a matter of fact, only a small proportion of soldiers receive training to this 
end. It has been held that trained cooks should prepare the ration and 
that the soldier should merely be required to consume it; but as in field 
service every man may be thrown on his own resources for the preparation 
of his food, familiarity with the simple methods of cooking is clearly essen- 
tial. Unfortunately it is rarely possible, under the best of circumstances, 
to give such general knowledge to all the cook being usually permanently 
assigned as such, and some of the men, in rotation, being detailed tempo- 
rarily as his assistants. By this plan the men have the best skill in the 
preparation of their food that the company affords ; but it not infrequently 
happens that the best culinary skill available in a command is by no means 
sufficient properly to qualify its possessor for such a position. To meet 
this contingency the special enlistment of cooks, with the pay and allow- 
ances of sergeants, has lately been authorized ; but even this step has by 
no means insured the results desired. In the British army greater im- 
portance is attached to this part of the service than with us, and a special 
training-school for army cooks is maintained at Aldershot. This is an ex- 
ample which might be followed with great advantage in our own army, 
particularly with reference to the preparation of the ration under the con- 
ditions prevailing in the field. 

Camp life necessarily dispenses with many kitchen facilities and thus 
diminishes the variety of dishes which may be prepared ; but those retained 
should be served in perfect condition. The shortcomings of the camp 
kitchen cannot be considered as a valid excuse for bad cooking, for nothing 
should be attempted save what can be certainly accomplished with the fa- 
cilities at hand. 

While line officers are responsible for the cooking of the ration, its su- 
pervision and inspection is part of the duty of the sanitary officer. It is 
not expected or practicable that the latter shall minutely instruct in cook- 
ery, but he should have a knowledge of the general principles of that art, 
and, especially with raw troops, should have the preparation as well as the 
quality of the food constantly under observation. Above all things he 
should bear in mind that the first duty of a cook, in or out of the military 
service, is scrupulous cleanliness. 

Means of Cooking the Ration. The cooking-ranges, fixtures and 
utensils that accompany them are provided by the Quartermasters' Depart- 
ment. Utensils needed for the preparation of food that are not furnished 
by the Government can be provided by purchases made from the company 
or mess funds. The range supplied for garrison use is the so-called Army 
Range No. 4. This does not differ greatly from similar large ranges em- 
ployed in civil life and requires no description ; the same remarks apply 
also to the kitchen ware and mess crockery. 

In the field the conveniences for cooking are greatly varied, ranging 
from the portable cooking-outfits, nearly equal in completeness of equip- 
ment to the kitchen in garrison, to the open fire over which the soldier pre- 
pares his bacon and cofiee with the utensils carried on his person. Vari- 
ous portable stoves, ranges and ovens have been placed on the market and 
several varieties are used in our service. Lately, however, the Buzzacott 
outfits have been accepted as standard for the military service, and these 
are now being generally issued to troops. These outfits are made in sev- 



THE RATION. 



171 



eral different sizes and styles. In principle, the Buzzacott outfit consists 
of a steel frame, which serves as a skeleton stove, enclosing a stout recUu- 
gular oven composed of two sheet iron boxes, one inverted over the uth.- r . 




Fio. 48. -Buzzacott Cooking-Outfit, Packed. 



Within this oven are packed a large number of boilers, pans and other 
utensils, largely on the " nesting " principle, so that comparatively little 
space is occupied. The outfit is complete for roasting, baking, frying, 
boiling and stewing, and will readily cook for 100 men and, in an 
emergency, for a larger number. The roasting capacity is 150 pounds, the 
broiling or frying 50 pounds and the boiling or stewing capacity 32 gal- 
lons, or about one barrel. The size is 25x35x14 inches; the weight, com- 
plete, 175 to 200 pounds. In shipping, the skeleton stove fastens aN>ut 
the whole and permits of heavy objects being packed on top without dan- 
ger of crushing. This cooking-outfit will use any kind of fuel and appears 
well to fulfill every require- 
ment of field service. It 
cannot, however, be used 
except in the open air ; and 
to meet the needs of troops 
who may be required to oc- 
cupy houses, the Buzzacott 
range, furnished with a 
stovepipe and built on much 
the same pkns as the cook- 
ing-outfit, is also supplied. 
It is of excellent pattern, 
has a boiling capacity of 
nearly two barrels, a roast- 
ing capacity of one hundred 
and fifty pounds of meat and a bread-baking capacity of twenty-four loaves. 
Much simpler than the Buzzacott outfits, and correspondingly less sat- 
isfactory in the results given, is a simple shield for the camp fire made of 
sheet iron. It is composed of a top and three sides joined by hinges. 




Fio. 48. BuzzftcoU Cooking-Outfit In Use. 



172 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Fuel is inserted in front, which should be to the windward ; and being 
open, any length of wood can be used. A single joint of stovepipe is 
sufficient. The dimensions of this stove are 30x26x12 inches. It is ob- 
viously very portable. 

The Barney steam cooker is also authorized for field use, but is rarely 
issued. The usual size is 18x24 inches, and 
when complete it has a weight of 100 pounds. 
It is made in two sections, one containing a soup 
or coffee kettle and the other a baking-pan. 
The former has a capacity of 13 gallons, this 
being equivalent to 160 cups of coffee or rations 
of vegetables for 100 men. The baking-pan is 
said to have a capacity of 75 pounds of meat. 
The apparatus is operated merely by inserting 
the legs and placing it over a moderate fire, after 
pouring water into the 
steamer. It requires no 
further attention. Food 
placed in this apparatus 
ordinarily requires three 
or four hours' cooking; 
it may be kept warm 
several hours after the 
fire has died out. 

The Norwegian 
stove, used in several 
foreign armies, is men- 
tioned elsewhere. 

Kitchen wagons have been tried in the Austrian army, the idea being 
to have the food prepared when camp is reached, so that the tired troops 

would thus be spared the labor of its 
preparation. The amount of food 
which it was found could be fur- 
nished by such a wagon, however, 
was small; one wagon being re- 
quired for each one hundred to one 
hundred and fifty men. The ex- 
periment was, therefore, with reason 
abandoned; since the amount of 
transportation required would great- 
ly swell the wagon train and corre- 
spondingly hamper an army. 

In the absence of any special 
cooking-apparatus, the simplest 
kitchen consists of a trench dug in 
the direction parallel with the wind, of such width that the kettle, when 
placed on it, does not project beyond it more than an inch on each side ; 
its depth should be twelve inches at the end from which the wind is 
blowing, and continue this depth for four feet. It then decreases grad- 
ually to three inches at the opposite end, where a space must be left equal 




FIG. 50. Buzzacott Rang* 



ensils in Use. 




Fio. 51. Collapsible Sheet-Iron Stove. 



THE RATION. 



173 




FIG. 62. Barney M.-UIM Cooker. 



to the breadth of the trench to serve as a chimney. The fire is established 
at the end where the trench is deep; it should not extend beyond three or 
four feet up the trench. The kettles are placed touching one another; dry 
sods should be used to stop up the chinks 
made by the roundness of the kettles, so that 
the space under them may form a flue. It 
is advisable to pile up sod, or with stones 
and earth to erect a chimney of at least one 
foot in height, at the end farthest from the 
fire. All grass around the fireplaces should 
be cut to prevent accidents from tire. If the 
command halts for more than one day, these 
kitchens are susceptible of great improve- 
ment ; the chimney can be made of mud, or 
twigs and mud, and the draft may be in- 
creased by using short pieces of hoop-iron as 

bars, stretched across the trench to support a filling-in of clay around 
each kettle. As on the day following the wind may change to an exactly 
opposite direction, a similar trench must be dug in continuation of the 
former one the same chimney being used. T/i this manner one chimney 
will serve for trenches cut to suit the wind blowing from all four quarters. 
The openings from these trenches into the chimney shouldall be closed 
with sod, except the one in use. In some places, where brick or stones 
suitable to the purpose are to be had, it is better to construct these kitch- 
ens on the ground instead of below the surface. 

In the British service the so-called " broad arrow " kitchen is used. It 
is similar to the trench kitchen already described, but is much more elabo- 
rate and intended for the 
f preparation of food for large 

bodies of men, regiments 
A'f'A ' f ; K*. rather than companies. It 

^* ^ '* ' v! i v * "> 

, t;-''V/' 7 1 [ \v"v appears to give entire satis- 

&? !! IJN\ V^'\ faction. 

In well-wooded coun- 
tries, two logs side by side 
and parallel to the direction 
of the wind, the fire being 
kindled between them, 
make a good company 
kitchen. Sometimes two 
logs are laid }>arallel about 
three feet apart, two notch- 
es being cut in each about 
ten to twelve inches apart 
and green logs laid trans- 
versely in these notches. 
The fire is built in the 
centre and the transverse logs give a suitable support to the camp ket- 
tles. Cranes are built by driving two green posts into the ground a 
foot from the fire. The upper ends, if not terminating in a crotch, should 



- 








^~ 








^ -^ 














*' 


i' 


i' 


4' 




E 


i 


L_/ 

ANSV 


!<,[ 1 


U 


U 


\_J 


\J 


U 


b 




SECTION A-B 

FIG. 53." Broad Arrow " Field Kltcben, Used In the British 
Army. 



174 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

be slightly split and a transverse pole with flattened ends inserted in 
them. 

Ordinarily the method of improvising a cooking-place consists in ex- 
cavating a trench eighteen inches wide, twelve inches deep and from four 




FIG. 54. Improvised Kitchen Fire-place. 

to six feet long. At each end a forked stick is placed, of equal heights, with 
a stout sapling, from which to suspend the kettles, extending from one to 
the other. This, however, is neither the best nor most economical mode, as 
it consumes much fuel, wastes much of the heat and causes great inconve- 
nience to the cook. An improvement can be effected by casing the sides 
of the trench with brick or stone, adding a chimney at one end and, in 
place of the fcrked sticks, using iron uprights and crossbar, to which half 
a dozen hooks for the suspension of kettles are attached. 

In a clay soil a neat, economical and convenient plan consists in dig- 
ging a hole three feet square and two feet in depth, generally in the slope of 
a hill. From this a shaft, about one foot square and six feet in length, is 
run laterally about one foot below the surface of the ground. At the extreme 
end a shaft is sunk vertically to form a chimney ; and at equal distances 
three similar holes are pierced of sufficient diameter to prevent the kettles 
from falling through when placed in position. Kettles placed over these 
respective holes are made to boil or simmer as desired. 

Bakery Facilities. The fact that hard bread is unsuitable for use by 
troops for any great length of time, together with the fact that at present 




l'i(.. 55. Excavated Fire-place in Side of Hill or Bank. 

there is no article which can replace fresh bread in the dietary, necessitate 
the establishment of bakeries in the field as well as garrison. In posts, 
the management of the flour is taken entirely out of the hands of the com- 
pany commander and all flour is turned into the post bakery, where the 



THE RATION. 



175 



bread used by the men of the entire command is prepared. The apparatus 
used under such conditions is similar to that employed in small bakeries 
in civil life and requires no special mention. In the field, however, new 
conditions are presented which are peculiar to the military service. For 
an army operating along a line of railroad a fixed bakery at the general or 
secondary base is often constructed and the bread forwarded as soon as 
baked to troops at the front. This system was employed with great suc- 
cess in the Army of the Potomac during the Civil War. In camps of any 
size or permanence iron portable ovens will usually be temporarily brought 



Fio. 56. Side View of Field Oven, with Break, Showing Longitudinal Bars Inside. 

into use, while for marching columns the employment of bakery wagons 
is practicable. For small commands, not in permanent camps, the baking 
must be as a rule done by company organizations. Under any conditions, 
except in fixed bakeries at the base, the preparation of a good quality of 
bread in the field will be a matter of some difficulty, and in very cold 
weather the production of a fermented bread is almost an impossibility. 

Portable field ovens, for military use, are usually simple in construc- 
tion, light in weight, easy of establishment and satisfactory as regards 
their output. Many varieties were used during the Civil War. At pres- 
ent two kinds are issued in our service, these differing little from each 
other except in size. The smaller oven, usually issued, is made of sheet 
steel strengthened with longitudinal bars and transverse ribs. The sheets 
composing the body are five feet long and thirty inches wide ; so curved that, 
when their upper edges are connected and lower edges fixed in the ground, 
they form an arch the span of which is three feet nine inches and the rise one 
foot four inches. The lower edge of each sheet is bent into a flange, so as 
to secure a firm rest on the ground. The upper ends of the transverse ribs 




Fio. 67. End View of Field Oven. 



on one of the sheets are formed into hooks and those of the other sheet 
into eyes, by means of which the parts are securely united. The front 
of the oven is closed by a two-handled iron door, which is kept in place 
by means of hooks and eyes. When the soil is of clay or other favorable 
quality, the rear end of the oven may be closed by the natural earth ; but 
if it is sandy or loose, a sheet-iron plate is required to close it. No chim- 
ney is necessary. When set up, the whole, with the exception of the door, 
is covered with earth to the depth of about eight inches. A larger quantity 
of earth is liable from its weight to bend the heated iron, and a smaller 



176 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

quantity allows too much heat to escape. An excavation three or four feet 
in depth is usually made a foot or so from the door, for the convenience of 
the baker. Two hours are required for heating the oven at first starting, 
but for each heating immediately following one hour will be sufficient. A 
quantity of wood is placed in the oven at the extreme rear and ignited, the 
door being kept open to afford a draft and a vent for the smoke. Small 
quantities of wood are added as combustion progresses. In this way the 
fuel burns more freely, and the oven is heated more quickly, than if all the 
fuel necessary for the heating is put in at once. As soon as the oven is at a 
white heat the ashes are raked out, the floor is swept clean and the dough in- 
troduced in pans. The door is then closed and all interstices are filled with 
moistened clay or earth. The time required for each baking is about forty- 
five minutes. As each of the two principal pieces forming an oven weighs 
only about eighty-five pounds, the whole consisting of the two sides, the 
door and end plate can be easily transported, and can even be carried on 
a pack animal if necessary. To set up the oven no tools except a pickaxe 
and a shovel are required ; the sides being merely placed on level ground, 
fastened together, the rear end closed and the whole covered with earth. 

I 




FIG. 58. Portable Oven Used in French Army. (After Laveran.) 

It can be erected and prepared for use in fifteen minutes, and if kept in 
constant operation for twenty-four hours can bake sufficient bread for one 
thousand men. By the use of two of these ovens, therefore, a regiment of 
a thousand men, if it make a halt of fourteen hours each day, can be sup- 
plied with fresh bread daily on the line of march. 

In the French service the portable bake oven used is provided with a 
chimney. The sections are made with double walls for better retention of 
heat, are very light, so as to be transported if necessary by porters, and 
are capable of being operated independently. A completely equipped field 
bakery is attached to each army corps, together with a bakery train carry- 
ing the flour and necessary materials, and, if possible, a two-days' supply 
of bread. 

Bakery wagons were tried during the Civil War and have also been 
much employed in foreign armies. In the French army they have been used 
successfully in Algeria and Mexico and during the Franco-Prussian War ; 
in the German army they are also used. In construction these wagons are 
simple. There are two metal ovens connected with a chimney, the latter 
being lowered during the march. The walls of the ovens are double, or 



THE RATION. 177 

sometimes triple, to prevent loss of heat. The interspace is packed with 
powdered coral, which is said to so retard the passage of heat that the 
hand can be held on the outside of the apparatus during the process of 
baking. These ovens are heated in the usual manner by wood fires kin- 
dled within them. Special wagons for the transportation of bakery sup- 
plies accompany these bakery wagons, and the baking of bread is continued 
during the march. The capacity of one of these bakery wagons is said to 
be two hundred rations of bread per hour. The recent model used in the 
German army is ten feet long, having a tire box for wood fire below and an 
oven above. The capacity of this oven is eighty loaves every one and one- 
half hours. The wagon has the advantage of the older models in being 
lighter, even if its yield is not as great. 

Bread may be excellently baked in the Buzzacott range, although the 
size of the oven renders it scarcely sufficient for more than the needs of a 
single company. It is much superior to the Dutch oven, so often used. 
The latter consists merely in a heavy flat iron pot, with short legs and 
fitted with a flanged top. It is heated by coals beneath and above. Sim- 




Fio. 59. Bakery Wagon, as Used In the French and tierman Annies. 



ilar to this method is the preparation of bread in mess pans. Of these, 
the rim of one is cut down so as to leave a ragged borden This pan is 
then tilled two-thirds with dough and the perfect pan inverted over it. 
Both are then placed in a hole about eighteen inches* deep, in which a tire 
has burned for several hours and from which nearly all the embers havo 
been removed. The ^hole is then covered with hot ashes and allowed to 
remain several hours. A frying-pan may also be employed in the absence 
of better utensil. It is greased and heated; the dough is then put in, 
rolled to about one-half an inch in thickness and the whole set on the 
tire. The pan is sliakeu to prevent sticking. When the lower crust is 
formed the bread is removed, set on edge close to the tire and turned 
occasionally. Woodhull states that by this method one man with six pans 
can bake twenty-five pounds of bread in less than an hour. 

In the absence of special apparatus for the purpose, field ovens may be 
improvised by excavation of the earth, or from any material available, as 
sod, wood or brush. The dimensions of such an oven should ordinarily 
not exceed 150 to 200 rations, unless the arch be of brick or stone. The 
ration loaf should occupy from 25 to 31 inches of floor space, preferably thu 
latter. For 150 loaves averaging 30 square inches each the dimensions 
of the hearth should be 31.25 square feet. Ovens made of earth, mud, sod 
and frames of twigs should preferably contain not more than 100 rations. 
12 



178 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



The best oven is made in a steep bank, preferably 4 to 6 feet high. 
Two men with a spade and a long-handled shovel can build it, in light 
soil, in three-quarters of an hour. If such tools are not available, it may 
be constructed with trowel bayonets, entrenching tools or even with knives. 
To build the oven, the bank is dug down to a vertical face and a hole 





FIG. CO. Vertical Section of Oven Excavated In 
Bank. 



FIG. 61. Ground Plan of Bank Oven. 



excavated at the base from 4 to 5 feet horizontally, care being taken to keep 
the entrance as small as possible ; the sides of the excavation are hollowed 
and the roof is arched until the floor is about 2 feet 6 inches in its widest 
part and the roof 16 inches high in the centre. The back end is then 
tapped for the flue. A hole from 4 to 6 inches in diameter will furnish a 
good draft, and a piece of tent stovepipe may be utilized for this purpose. 
It will be advantageous, before using, to wet the whole interior surface of 
the oven and smooth it over neatly, drying it out and hardening it with a 
small fire. The time required for drying out will depend upon the charac- 
ter of the soil; if ordinarily dry, a fire kept up for an hour will suffice. 
Such an oven has a capacity of about forty rations and will bake good 
bread in about forty minutes. With proper care it will last several weeks. 
Bake-pans may be used in baking, if they can be obtained; if not, the bare 
floor, after the ashes are removed, may be used to bake on. After the 
introduction of the dough, the flue and door should be closed, which may 
be done with logs of wood, pieces of hard-bread boxes plastered with mud, 
flat stones, a wet grain sack or piece of canvas. After the oven has been 




FIG. 62. Improvised Oven on Flat Ground. Upper portion shows longitudinal section; lower portion 

shows i>lun, with ditch. 

heated, the degree of heat may be regulated by means of the door and" flue, 
opening or closing them as may be necessary. 

On level ground an oven is built by digging a hole four feet long, eighteen 
inches wide and eighteen inches deep. Without enlarging the top, the sides 
are hollowed from above downward until the floor is about thirty inches wide. 
At about a foot from one end a trench of suitable dimensions is dug to 
enable a man to attend to the oven. The partition between the oven and 



THE RATION. 179 

trench is then dug through to form the door. At the back end of the 
oven a small hole, slanting downward, is dug for the flue. The top of the 
oven is then closed in with green poles. The interspaces are filled with 
grass or weeds. The whole is plastered over with mud, after which a sec- 
ond layer of poles is added and another layer of mud. The oven and trench 
are then ditched to keep out storm water. Such an oven may be built by 
two men in one and a half hours. It is much inferior to the bank oven, 
but has the advantage of being easily constructed and available for imme- 
diate use. Where a camp is to remain a number of days, a bank oven mav 
be made by digging a pit about five feet deep and then excavating its wall 
in the manner previously described. 

Ovens may be made on the surface of the ground of mud, clay or 
mortar. Where mud is used, the admixture of chopped hay will give it 
strength. To build such an oven a rounded heap of dry earth or sand, 
about five feet long, thirty inches wide and twenty inches high, should 
be raised. This is the mould on which the oven is to be formed. Sand is 
more suitable for the mould than earth, as being more readily removed. 
Willow twigs bent over and closely wattled together, or a Hour barrel laid 
flat and covered completely with earth, will likewise suffice to give form 
to the mould. A stiff mud or mortar is mixed and plastered over the mould 
five or six inches thick, commencing at the base. One or two days are 
allowed for it to dry and harden, plastering up all cracks which may ap- 
pear. When nearly dry, the door at one end and the flue at the top of the 
other end are cut out. A small mud chimney raised over the flue will 
greatly improve the draft. The loose earth or sand is then carefully with- 
drawn from the interior. If a barrel has l>een used for the mould it may 
be burned out without damaging the oven. Two men can build this oven 
in three hours, but it will generally not be fit for use for two days. It 
will last several weeks and will prove very satisfactory. This oven may 
also be built dome-shaped, like the household ovens used by the Mexicans. 
This kind of an arch would be stronger than the semi-cylindrical form, but 
with the same quantity of material used would not have as great a baking 
capacity. The clay oven is peculiarly adapted for use when on swampy 
ground. Under such circumstances it may be constructed uj>on a platform 
of stones or logs covered with clay. 

Dough is kneaded in the field by hand, the ojieration requiring about 
forty-five minutes. If pressed for time, it may simply be kneaded on a 
rubber blanket spread on the ground. A knead ing-trough may be readily 
improvised by digging two parallel trenches a foot apart, of unequal sizes 
and depth. The smaller should be lined with plank and serves as a knead- 
iug-trench to the bakers, who descend into the larger excavation. 

To facilitate the rising of bread in the open air, an excavation, of con- 
venient length and width and having a depth of about eighteen inches, is 
made. This is heated by a small fire, after which the bread is placed in 
the excavation on brush- wood and the whole covered with branches, plank, 
hay or grass. 

With respect to the amount of fuel required in the preparation of the 
ration, Parkes regards one-half pound per man as sufficient, using a cook- 
ing apparatus of good type. In the field, in our service, it is customary 
to rely chiefly upon the vicinity of the halting-place to supply the neces- 



180 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

sary amount of fuel. Where its scarcity is apprehended, a small amount 
may be carried in the wagons. In the French army, often maneuvering 
in districts in which fuel is scarce, each soldier is frequently required to 
carry a small piece of wood, in addition to his equipment, for use when 
camp is established. 

Meals. In garrison, breakfast will ordinarily be about 6:30 A.M., 
dinner at noon and supper about 5 P.M. The latter meal might be delayed 
until 6 o'clock, but the soldier himself usually prefers to have a long 
evening to devote to his own purposes. Breakfast, in opposition to the 
views prevailing in foreign services, should be substantial. The last meal 
has been taken more than twelve hours previously, the stomach is empty, 
the digestion active and the work of the day is to follow. Under these 
circumstances the European practice of allowing the soldier merely a bit of 
bread and cup of tea or coffee appears quite indefensible, at least for this 
climate. Dinner should be the principal meal of the day, and, like break- 
fast, should include meat. Supper should be comparatively light. Many 
men, while in garrison, make a practice of taking a slight lunch at the post 
exchange before going to bed. It is probable that a small allowance of 
bread, with coffee or soup, might be issued with advantage from the kitch- 
en about 9 P.M. to such as choose to ask for it. This would be of special 
value in a cold climate, particularly to members of the guard. On the 
march but two meals can be prepared. Breakfast is naturally early. 
Under favorable circumstances and in commands of moderate size a small 
lunch may be supplied, to be eaten while en route. Preparations for din- 
ner should be at once begun when the camping-ground is reached ; and 
this, the heaviest meal of the day, should be ready two or three hours be- 
fore sunset. In the uncertainties of field .service a delayed meal may be 
a lost one, and a salutary maxim for troops in the presence of the enemy 
is to eat whenever and as often as they can. Before going into action 
troops should be given a hearty meal, since they are thus enabled better to 
endure the strain of battle or pursuit. 

Service of Ration. The service of food is a matter which in our 
army has been given the attention it deserves. Airy and cheerful mess- 
rooms are provided in all barracks, and these are fully equipped with an 
abundance of furniture, crockery, glass and table ware luxuries which are 
not even considered as attainable in most foreign armies. Abroad, the 
soldier eats his food at any convenient place in or around the barracks, 
using his own cooking utensils, as carried in the field, for that purpose. 
In the Russian army, food is issued in large mess-pans, out of which six or 
eight men eat in common. The same system is in vogue in the French 
army ; and Laveran mentions the great frequency with which medical offi- 
cers in that service have been called upon to remove fragments of bone 
from the throats of soldiers, these having been inadvertently swallowed by 
the men in then- eagerness to secure a full share of food. It is obvious 
that such a method of messing is highly undesirable from every standpoint, 
and certainly would not be tolerated in this country. 

Even in the field, where the camp is more than ephemeral, efforts 
should be made by company officers to have the men eat at a common 
place, to prevent contamination of the tents or their vicinity with the 
cttbris of meals. Ordinarily a tent-fly is soon spread for the protection of 



THE RATION. 181 

the cook, and additional flies or a brush shelter subsequently erected for a 
dining-room; the men generally managing to erect rude tables and benches 
of rough lumber, logs or poles. 

In barracks, troops usually mess as company organizations, with indi- 
vidual kitchens and mess-rooms. These are cared for, and the messing 
crockery and utensils washed, by men specially detailed for that purpose 
and held responsible for the maintenance of cleanliness. Usually the men 
employed in the dining-room and as assistants to the cook are detailed by 
roster, thus insuring a fair knowledge of the service of food and the man- 
agement and preparation of the ration throughout the command. Bread 
is usually placed on the tables on platters, but meat, vegetables and coffee 
are served out individually before the meal is announced. This practice 
has several disadvantages. The portions of food are frequently cold by 
the time the men are seated, and hence are less palatable. Further, under 
this system each man usually receives at once a portion which is supposed 
to constitute a full meal. If the portions issued were always small the 
wastage would be less and the untouched remainder could be served over 
again. In cold weather the crockery should be warmed and no food served 
before the men are seated. This entails additional work on the waiters, 
but the extra labor is well repaid by greater contentment among the men. 

General Messes. The plan of bringing all the troops of a garrison 
into a general mess, for their subsistence, has been tested at a number of 
the larger posts in this country. When properly administered there can 
be no doubt that the general mess system, other things being equal, is more 
economical in the use of fuel, labor and the ration and offers greater vari- 
ety in the matter of diet. Skilled cooks, however, are necessary to suj)er- 
vise the running of large general messes, and with enlisted men as cooks 
the troops will probably fare better when subsisted in company messes. 
It is much easier to find in a company a man who can cook for a small 
number of men than in a garrison one who has the ability to administer 
to best advantage the kitchen of a general mess. "Where the general mess 
system is in vogue the barracks are free from the odors and annoyances 
which the presence of company kitchens entails, while the concentration 
for subsistence greatly lightens the labors of the sanitary officer as regards 
the maintenance of cleanliness, attention to proper sanitary detail, inspec- 
tion of food and its proper preparation. On the other hand, it must not 
be forgotten that theoretically the normal existence of the soldier is in 
the field, where he may frequently be called upon to prej>are his ration for 
himself. It is particularly in this respect that the general mess system is 
weak, for the cooking in such an establishment is carried out on so large 
a scale, and the apparatus provided is so totally at variance with the mea- 
gre cooking outfits available for the field mess during campaign, that the 
average soldier cook, who may have served a detail as an underling in such 
a general mess, is rarely competent at once to undertake the responsibilities 
incident to cooking for a company in the field. In the general mess, also, 
the kitchen staff is largely of a permanent character and comparatively few 
men are thus enabled to acquire a practical knowledge of cooker)'. It 
may therefore be concluded that, while possessing many undeniable advan- 
tages for troops in garrison, the general mess is, on the whole, inferior to the 
usual plan of preparing the food for each organization in its own kitchen. 



182 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

In general, kitchens and mess-rooms will be better conducted if they 
are placed under the immediate charge of non-commissioned officers, who 
should be held responsible for their condition and for the proper use of 
the ration. No one should be allowed to visit or remain in the kitchen 
except those who go there on duty or are employed therein. 

Foraging. To rely on the country for means of subsistence, especially 
in view of the vast numbers of men which are massed together in modern 
wars, is ordinarily extremely hazardous. A retreating enemy will endeavor 
to destroy all stores likely to be of value, while the inhabitants along the 
line of march, whether friendly or hostile, have usually removed all avail- 
able food to secret hoards for their own use. Under such conditions the 
army operating in a friendly territory is at a disadvantage, since it neces- 
sarily shows far greater consideration as regards the property of the civil- 
ian population than would a victorious enemy. This fact was strongly 
exemplified in France in 187071, when the French troops, operating on 
their own soil, were unable to obtain in the way of food a fraction of what 
the invading Germans subsequently wrung from an unwilling and hostile 
population. Foraging will often do much toward eking out deficient sup- 
plies, and, where shortage is imminent or transportation is scanty, it should 
be authorized. Looting, however, should not be permitted ; the foraging 
should be done only by parties detailed for that purpose under responsible 
officers, and everything taken should be paid for with vouchers. 

Billeting. In this country the billeting of troops on a civilian popu- 
lation, for purposes of subsistence, is never required. In foreign armies, 
however, this procedure is' common. French regulations provide, where 
troops are to subsist on the country, that soldiers may be told off for sub- 
sistence by the inhabitants of a town or region at the rate of four to six 
for each fireplace. In case of great necessity this may be increased to four 
to six for each inhabitant. In the German army similar regulations pre- 
vail. In the Austrian army the number of soldiers billeted may be equal 
to the civil population of the place. Troops billeted in this way are en- 
titled to the usual fare of the country. Usually soldiers are not billeted on 
a civil population for more than three or four days. 

Requisitions as a Means of Supply. The rapidity of movements 
in modern warfare will reduce the value of magazine rations as a source of 
supply, so that the system of requisitioning when in occupation of an ene- 
my's country will be not infrequently employed. According to Eiordan 
the most densely populated place can furnish food and quarters for as many 
troops as there are inhabitants, and for a less number of troops for several 
days. Hazenkampf arrives at the following conclusions: (1) If the popu- 
lation of a given point or locality be equal to the number of troops, it can 
supply them for a period of four, but not more than six, days. (2) If the 
number of troops be half the number of the population, they can be main- 
tained at the expense of the latter for one or two weeks. An army of 
sixty thousand men can be easily supplied from the means of a country 
which has one hundred and fifty inhabitants per square mile, but only while 
on the march. It must not halt at one place in at concentrated position. 
The following rule is given for demanding, supplies on requisition : One 
ration daily for every three inhabitants of a well-cultivated district, and 
one for every six inhabitants in mountainous or poorly cultivated countries. 



THE RATION. 

In cases in which an army operates in countries either devastated, un- 
cultivated, mountainous or thinly populated, or has to fight for several days 
consecutively on the same ground, or has to meet the resistance or cunning 
of the inhabitants, it is plainly impossible for it to subsist on the resources 
of the country. The Germans, who made such a large use of requisitions 
during the Franco-Prussian war, do not appear to have had any fixed rule 
upon which to base their demands. Forse says : " The aim of the German 
officers was evidently to exhaust all the occupied towns and to make it 
absolutely impossible for them to assist finally in contributing toward the 
expenses of the war." The system of requisitions has been much used 
abroad, not only during the Franco-Prussian, war but during the Naj>oleonic 
wars and the Russo-Turkish war of 1878. The British have frequently 
employed this system of supply in their expeditious, notably in the Afghan- 
istan campaign. 

II. 
SUBSISTENCE AND MESSING IN FOREIGN ARMIES. 

The ration of the -British soldier at home stations, supplied gratuitously 
by the Government, consists merely of 12 ounces of meat with Ixme and 
1 pound of bread daily. In addition, a grocery ration is provided by a 
stoppage from the soldier's pay, usually about 3 pence daily per man. 
This latter sum is at the disposal of the various companies in a regiment, 
and is usually expended on the purchase of extra bread, tea, sugar, pota- 
toes, vegetables and other articles. Under canvas, 1 pound of bread and 
1 pound of fresh meat or 12 ounces of preserved meat are allowed. In 
billets on the march, 20 ounces of bread, 1 pound of meat and 1 jxnjnd of 
potatoes or other vegetables are authorised, together with vinegar, salt 
and pepper. During campaign, when required by the senior medical offi- 
cer, a daily ration of half a gill of rum is issued and a small deduction 
made therefor from the soldier's pay. At stations abroad, the ration is 
ordinarily the same as the issue under canvas at the home stations. In 
case of active operations in the field a special scale is fixed according to 
climate and circumstances. For this the following is accepted as a guide 
to be used as far as possible: One pound fresh, salt or preserved meat ; 1^- 
pounds bread or 1 pound biscuit or 1 pound flour ; % ounce tea ; ^ ounce 
coffee ; 2 ounces sugar ; ounce salt ; -fa ounce jpper ; pound fresh 
vegetables, when procurable, or 1 ounce compressed vegetables. To this 
is added fa gill of lime juice and 1 ounce sugar on days when fresh vege- 
tables are not issued. During campaign, if the supply of cattle is abun- 
dant, the allowance of fresh meat may be increased to 1^- pounds. Where 
troops are under canvas the money value of ^ pound of fresh meat may be 
expended in the purchase of cheese. Notter and Firth give the free ration 
and grocery ration as being ordinarily made up as follows : 

Articles. Quantity in ounces. 

Meat 12 

Bread 24 

Potatoes 16 

Other vegetables 8 

Milk 3.25 

The lack of fat, vinegar and pepper in this dietary is noticeable. 



Articles. 


Quantity in ounce*. 
.... 1.88 


Salt 


...... JB 




.88 




16 







184 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



The number of men in a mess in the infantry is usually the number 
that each barrack-room contains. Special dining-halls are provided in but 
few barracks and the men eat in their squad-rooms, storing their bread and 
the articles of food purchased by themselves on their shelves or in their 
lockers. But two hot meals a day are provided, supper being merely 
sweetened tea with such bread or other food as may be still uneaten by 
the soldiers. Few men appear to take advantage of this bread and tea 
issue, and nearly all purchase their suppers at the canteen. The sergeants 
have a separate mess. Cooking is done in a regimental cook house ; each 
company cook, usually trained at Aldershot, preparing the meals for his 
own organization under the direction of the sergeant cook. Cooking is 
generally done by baking or stewing. The British system of cooking, 
messing and service of food appears to be in all respects far inferior to our 
own and leaves much to be desired. 

The food allowance in the German army is based on the recognized 
general principle that greater physical exertion necessitates a more gener- 
ous supply of nutriment. In time of peace two rations are allowed, one 
being used in garrison and the other in camp or for field maneuvers. 
Their constituents, according to Notter and Firth, are as follows : 



Articles. 


Garrison ration, ounces. 


Field ration, ounces. 


Bread 


26.47 


35.30 


Meat fresh 


5 30 


17.65 


Or Bacon 


4.41 


6.00 


Smoked meat (war only) 




8.82 


Rice 


3.18 


6.00 


Or Oatmeal 


4.24 


6.00 


Peas or beans 


8.12 


12.00 


Potatoes 


53.00 


71.00 


Salt 




.88 


Hoasted coffee 




1.41 


Brandy . 




3.53 


Or Beer 




35.30 


Wine 




17.65 


Butter , 




1.76 


Tobacco 




1.41 









The quantity of vegetable food given in these rations is so great as to 
arouse suspicion -as to the correctness of the figures quoted. The amount 
of meat also is considerably greater than the figures obtained by the com- 
mission lately investigating the dietary of the British soldier, which placed 
the German meat ration in war at but 8.81 ounces. 

Of the above articles the Government issues free, in time of peace, the 
bread ration ; the other articles are provided by a stoppage from the sol- 
dier' s pay amounting to about three and a half cents daily; and, as this is 
insufficient, the Government furnishes a supplementary subsistence allow- 
ance, determined for each garrison from the local price of foods during" the 
preceding quarter. The bread, made of a mixture of wheat and rye flour, 
is furnished in kind and can be commuted only in exceptional cases. The 
reason for this is stated to be that the men should be well nourished and 
not be tempted to eat more palatable but less nutritious foods. This bread 
is either baked in the military bake-houses or may be directly contracted 
for from civilian bakers. The method of using the ration varies with the 



THE RATION. 



185 



garrison. Cooking is done with steam kettles, and the meat ration is 
roasted only exceptionally. Usually it is prepared in the form of a thick 
soup or stew. Two full meals a day are ordinarily issued, the first repast 
consisting usually of coffee alone. In some instances bread is used three 
times daily twenty per cent, for breakfast, fifty per cent, for dinner and 
thirty per cent, for supper. Kitchens are provided in barracks, as are also 
mess-rooms. The latter are used for purposes of assembly, recreation or 
instruction other than at meal-times. Usually a battalion messes together. 
The non-commissioned officers mess separately. The following is the daily 
ration during war : 



Articles. Quantity in jrrams. 

Bread 750 

Or Biscuit 500 

Fresh meat 875 

Or Smoked meat 250 

Preserved meat 200 

Bacon.. 170 



Articles. Quantity in grama. 

Rice, millet or oatmeal 125 

Or Dry vegetables 250 

Potatoes 1,500 

Salt 25 

Coffee 25 



In the enemy's country this ration may be increased by an issue of spirits. 

Under certain conditions, as when troops are billeted on the march, 
the rations are commuted. Reimbursement in these instances is made 
according to tariffs based on local prices for fixxl. Under such conditions 
troops are, by regulation, entitled to the usual fare of the country. 

In the French service, a small amount of meat is furnished at a reduced 
rate by the Government, and the state also supplies bread and fuel gratis ; 
the white bread for soup and other articles, except a small amount of coffee 
and sugar, being purchased from the company funds provided by the Gov- 
ernment. In time of peace the meat allowance is 300 gm. ; the allowance 
of "munition " bread is 750 gm., or of biscuit 550 gm. Usually the pur- 
chases from the company funds include 250 gm. of soup bread and 100 
gm. each of fresh and dried vegetables per man. Laveran states that in 
garrison the food actually eaten by the French soldier yields about 124 gin. 
of protein and 760 gm. of carbohydrates. The amount of fat is too small, 
amounting to only about 60 gm. daily. These quantities would possess a 
fuel value of 4,182 Calories. Ordinarily, beef is issued four days weekly, 
and mutton twice. Codfish is eaten on Fridays. In the field a larger 
ration is issued, this varying considerably with the particular service on 
which troops are employed. The " strong " ration for campaign contains 
the following articles : 



Articles. Quantity in grama. 

Bread 750 

Or Biscuit 600 

Bread, dried (pain biscuite) 700 

Ki- 100 

Or Dry vegetables 100 

Salt 20 

Sugar 81 

Coffee, roasted 24 



Articles. Quantity In pram*. 

Fresh meat 600 

Or Bacon 800 

Preserved meat 250 

Lard 

Condensed soups 25 

Wine (occasional) 250 c.c. 

Brandy (occasional) 62 c.c. 



As in the British service, meals are ordinarily eaten in the squad- 
rooms, no mess-halls being provided except in a very few of the latest tyjie 
of barracks. In these barracks there is one kitchen to each two squadrons, 



186 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



but each squadron has a separate mess-room. Two meals a day, in addi- 
tion to coffee in the morning, are prepared. Mess-gardens are encouraged 
wherever possible. In each company or fraction of a company a soldier is 
designated by turn to prepare and cook the food, usually for the period of 
three months. Each cook has an assistant who is relieved weekly. The 
sergeants do not mess with the men but eat at the canteen, the cantinieres 
being obliged by the letter of their appointment to run a sergeants' mess 
at a rate fixed by the commanding officer. 

In the Austro-Hungarian army the ration in time of peace consists of 
an allowance of black bread, amounting to 875 gm., issued in kind, and 
a money allowance for breakfast and dinner. The breakfast portion con- 
sists of bread, soup, tea, coffee, or brandy; the dinner portion of 190 gm. 
of beef and 140 gm. of desiccated vegetables, or a corresponding quantity 
of fresh vegetables. This ration, according to Laveran, yields 17 gm. of 
nitrogen. On the march, troops receive cooked subsistence in kind, con- 
sisting of 280 gm. of meat and one other article of food. In time of 
war the amount and constituents of the ration vary according to circum- 
stances. The full war ration is issued during the concentration of the 
army after mobilization, the "nachschub " ration during active operations, 
and the reserve ration in case of emergency. The composition of these 
rations is as follows : 



Articles. 


Full ration, 
grams. 


Nachschub 
ration, 
grams. 


When on the 
march from 
mobilization, 

grams. 


During active 
operations, 
grams. 


Substitutes in lieu of articles of the full 
ration, grams. 


Bread 


700 


700 


250 




Meat, 400 ; vegetables 400 ; flour, 


Or hard bread 


500 


500 






400; potatoes, 2,000. 


Fresh meat 


400 


400 






Pork mutton, veal 500; sausage 


Meat conserves 






290 




200; cheese, 250 ; tinned meat, 
200. 
Meat, 100; or flour, 140; sauer- 


Vegetables (rice, barley, 
grits, or other dry 
vegetables) 


140 


140 






kraut, 300; potatoes, 1,000. 




Sausage ... 








200 




Salt 


30 


30 


25 


25 




Pepper or paprika 
Fat (lard, butter, etc.). . 
Soup conserves 


.05 
20 
36 


.05 
20 
36 


36 




Flour or meal, 26; lard, 40, and 


Coffee 


25 


25 


25 


25) 


caraway, 1.5. 
Tea, 6; sugar, 25; rum, 4 c.l. ; or 


Sugar . . 


25 


25 


25 


?,5 


cocoa, 25; sugar, 30. 




9 c.l. 








Wine, 40 c.l. ; or beer, 75 c.l. ; or 


Tobacco 


35.23 


17.8 






rum or brandy, 6 c.l. 


Cigars (number) 


6 


6 






















The commanders of armies, of detached corps or divisions, or even of 
smaller forces in the field, are authorized to change and supplement the 
ration, or even double it under certain circumstances. Regimental com- 
manders are required to supplement the " nachschub " ration with fresh 
vegetables, etc., if possible, when the troops are in bivouac or cantonments. 



THE RATION. 



187 



For this purpose a special money alllowance is granted or each day that 
the "nachschub " ration is issued. This extra allowance is not granted in 
an enemy's country, the supplement to the ration being obtained in this 
case by requisition. The allowance of fresh meat is increased by 200 gm. 
on days when the reserve ration is issued, when beef cattle can be obtained 
in the enemy's country. 

In the Russian army the garrison ration is composed as follows : 



Articles. drains. 

Flour 820 

Or Bread 1,280 

Biscuit ... 820 



Articles. i , 

Groats 188 

Fresh meat 205 

Vegetables, variable quantity. 



When circumstances warrant the issue, the allowance of meat is increased 
to one pound per day. In addition to the food allowances there is also a 
money allowance for the purchase of vegetables and condiments, varying 
in value with the nature of the duty being ]>erforiiied by troops. Any of 
the above articles may be replaced by others according to the following 
scale: One-quarter pound of barley or oat groats equals .9 }xnmd of j)eas or 
beans, 1.7 pounds potatoes, 2.2 pounds turnips or carrots, 3.2 jKmnds 
cabbage. In time of great hardship, according to Viry, the amount of 
flour may be increased to 930 gm. This quantity is much in excess of the 
needs of the soldier and the portion unused is either sold or used in the 
manufacture of the Russian beer, or "kvass." Oatmeal is usually prepared 
with fat, and is much liked. Kitchen gardens are usually cultivated ; 
potatoes are little used, reliance being chiefly had on cablwige and legumi- 
nous vegetables. Fast-days are rigorously observed to the number of one 
hundred and fifty annually, and on these days fish soup, purchased from 
the company funds, is issued. There are but two heavy meals a day. 
Although tea is a national beverage in Russia it does not enter into the 
official ration but is purchased by the soldiers themselves. In time of 
war the ration is greatly increased according to circumstances. In the 
expedition against the Turcomans of Khiva the ration was composed as 
follows : 

Articles. Grams. 

Meat (on the hoof) 820 

Biscuit 820 

Groats 205 

Flour . . 17 



Articles. . 

Fat (lard, tallow or butter). . 21 

Dried peas 140 

Salt 55 

Also tea. sugar, and brandy. 



Notter and Firth give the larger Russian war ration as ordinarily con- 
taining, in ounces 



Articles. 



Ounce*. 



Rye bread 86. 15 

Meat.. . 21.67 



Article*. 

Groata 4.80 

Butter or tallow 8.78 



This is said to have the following nutritive value : 



Protein, grams. 


Fat, grams. 


Carbohydrate*, gram*. 


Fuel ralue. Caloric*. 


164.14 


117.08 


520.40 


8,804 



188 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



The peace ration of the Italian soldier is as follows : 



Articles. Ounces. 

Bread 32.40 

Meat 7.06-10.59 

Lard or bacon .53 

Rice.. 5.30 



Articles. Ounces. 

Salt 53 

Sugar 71 

Coffee, roasted 53 

Wine . 8.82 



Reduced to its proximate principles, this diet contains 3.99 ounces of 
protein, 1.34 ounces of fat and 21.64 ounces of carbohydrates. The camp- 
ing or marching rations are similar to the above, except that the allowance 
of meat is somewhat greater. The food for the troops is prepared in com- 
mon; the sergeants have a separate mess. Ordinarily two meals are 
served daily, but when the exigencies of the service require it the food 
may be issued but once daily. Bread is obtained both from the military 
bake-houses and by contract. For field service a considerable number of 
rations of varying composition are authorized. 

The field ration in the Swiss army consists of the following articles : 



Grams. 

Bread 750 

Fresh meat 375 

Vegetables (rice, pulse, etc.) . . 150 



Grams. 

Salt 20 

Coffee 15 

Sugar 20 



Biscuit may be substituted for bread ; and instead of fresh meat there may 
be issued salt or smoked meat or bacon, canned meats, or cheese, in the 
following proportion: 500 gm. of biscuit for 750 gm. of bread; 275 gin. 
of salt meat or 250 gm. of smoked, dried or canned meat or bacon, or 250 
gm. of cheese, for 375 gm. of fresh meat. When troops are exposed to 
very severe work or cold weather, extra subsistence may be issued, amount- 
ing in the meat ration to an increase to 500 gm., or to an addition of 65 
to 125 gm. of cheese, and 3 to 5 deciliters of wine or 6 to 10 centiliters of 
brandy. 

In the Spanish army the ration received by the soldiers consists merely 
of 650 gm. of bread about 23 ounces. During peace, the soldier's pay is 
drawn upon to the extent of about 30 centimes daily to furnish the remain- 
der of his subsistence, the exact amount varying in the discretion of the 
colonel or chief of battalion. Coffee with sugar is served at about 7 A.M., 
while the heavy meals of the day come at about 11 A.M. and 5 P.M. The 
food of the soldier naturally varies in character and quality with the region 
and the preferences of the commanding officer. No accurate figures as to 
the actual nutritive composition of the food ordinarily eaten by the Span- 
ish soldier appears to have been made. As a rule, the various parts of the 
repast are cooked and served together as a mixed dish. Mess-rooms and 
tables are provided only for non-commissioned officers ; the privates eat in 
any convenient point of the barracks or barrack yard. Each company 
usually has a different menu, and it is a common practice, in large cpm- 
mands, for soldiers from different companies to come together and share 
their food with each other to secure the desired variety. For field-service, 
no less than ten different rations, entirely dissimilar in character, are 
authorized. 

In the army of Holland the ration consists of two parts. One, the 
bread, is furnished gratuitously by the Government; it amounts to about 
twenty-two ounces. The second portion, which includes meat and groce- 



THE RATION. 



189 



ries, comes out of the soldier's pay and is purchased by company officers. 
Great liberty being thus given, the Government has laid down certain 
regulations fixing the minimum quantity of daily food which must be fur- 
nished to the soldier. These scales vary with the season. In time of war 
the ration is as follows : 



Bread 0.75 kgra. 

Meat 4 " 

Or Pork 25 " 

Mutton '. .. .30 " 

Smoked or salt pork ... .20 " 
Pickled fish 50 " 

Potatoes 2.25 liters. 

Or Green peas 40 " 

Beans.. .50 " 



Or Groats 0.20 kgm. 

Rice or meal 25 

Coffee 03 

Sugar 01 

Salt 03 

Pepper 0005 

Vinegar 04* litor. 

Gin (under special cir- 
cumstances) 5 " 



Three meals are issued daily, the breakfast usually consisting of a thick 
rich soup; though sometimes of coflee, bread, butter and cheese. The 
other meals are heavier. The sergeants mess together and contribute a 
considerable proportion of their pay for their subsistence. 

The rations of the Swedish soldier vary largely in composition. Ac- 
cording to Viry, the average nutritive composition has been estimated to 
be as follows: Protein, 185 gm. ; fat, 108 gm. ; carbohydrates, 671 gm. 

The ration of the Turkish soldier is said by Viry to be composed as 
follows : 



Grams. 

Bread 850 

Mutton 250 

Rice 85 

The ration of the Belgian soldier consists of: 



Grams. 

Salt 20 

Onions 20 



Ounces. 

Munition bread 26.47 

White bread 70 

Meat 8.82 

Potatoes . 35.3 



Ounces. 

Butter 0.7 

Lard 85 

Salt 1.00 

Coffee . . .9 



This ration contains about 17 gm. of nitrogen; the fats amounting to 
about 40 gm. The sergeants mess together ; receiving three meals a day, 
at two of which at least one dish of meat must be served. It is customary 
for the sergeants to contribute from their own resources to supplement the 
food provided by the Government. The men receive three meals daily. 
Of these the first consists of bread and coffee ; the second of soup, meat 
and vegetables; and the third usually of bread and vegetables. Cooking 
is done by men detailed for the purpose. 

In the Japanese army, in. time of peace, each soldier receives daily 
about thirty-six ounces of rice, and a money allowance of six sen for the 
purchase of beef, chicken, pork or fish, vegetables, pea flour, tea and pep- 
per. The ration during the late Chino- Japanese war consisted of : 

Ounces. 

Rice 36 

Chicken, beef, pork or fish 5 

Or Preserved meat 2i 

Dried meat 8f 

Vegetables, fresh 5 

Or Dried vegetables 11 



Or Spiced vegetables 1 J 

Preserved plums. 1$ 

Salt f 

Soy, miso and tea in Tarring 
quantities. 



190 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



In hot weather, during the war with China, hard flour biscuit was sub- 
stituted for rice, as the latter, when boiled, was apt to decompose. The 
quantity of biscuit issued is not stated. The cooking in the field is sim- 
ple ; the rice is boiled in large boilers, each man adding to his portion his 
can of preserved meat, vegetables or spice. This ration is markedly de- 
ficient in fat, a fact which was recognized by Ogata in the ration proposed 
by him, and which was so successful in reducing beri-beri among the 
Japanese naval forces. The Japanese ration is said closely to resemble 
that of the French native Annamite troops. 

The ration issued to the military forces of the Argentine Republic is 
of especial interest through its marked contrast to that issued in other 
nations, especially Japan. This ration, according to Gache, is composed 
of 1,370 gm. (3 pounds) of fresh meat; biscuit, 250 gm. ; rice, 56 gm. ; 
mate", 77 gm. ; sugar, 100 gm. ; coffee, 36 gm. This remarkable differ- 
ence in respect to meat components is to be explained by local customs of 
diet and the fact that meat, costly in Japan and Europe, is extremely 
cheap and abundant in Argentina. 

In the army of Chili the ration is composed of the following articles : 



Grams. 

Meat 460 

Rice 120 

Flour 340 

Beans 250 

Onions 50 

Fats . . 40 



Grams. 

Sugar 45 

Potatoes 100 

Coffee 15 

Salt 25 

Pepper 5 



Any attempt at a comparison of the rations of foreign armies, either 
among themselves or with our own, would seem to be productive only of 
misleading results. Not only must quantity be taken into consideration, 
but also quality and the method of preparation. To these, the varying 
factors of custom, race and climate must be added. On the whole, the 
rations of foreign armies would seem to contain altogether too small a pro- 
portion of fats. As far as the garrison and peace ration provided in most 
armies is concerned, it usually is quite insufficient even in some cases 
approaching mere subsistence dietand the soldier is not only tacitly but 
officially expected to supplement it from his own resources. In most ser- 
vices a large share of the pay nominally allowed, as in the Spanish army, 
never reaches the soldier, but is expended for his subsistence by a superior 
officer; in other services a smaller stoppage is made against the soldier's 
pay, but he is practically required as in the British army to purchase 
one meal daily at the canteen or other outside source. In still other ser- 
vices, as in the German army, the food allowed by the state and the pro- 
portionally large stoppages from the meagre pay of the soldier are together 
insufficient for his proper sustenance. Lacking outside means, the soldier 
must, under the last conditions, either receive food from his friends, sup- 
plement his pay by performing duties for his wealthier comrades, or prac- 
tically become an object of charity to the civilian population among whom 
he is stationed. Such an undesirable condition of affairs cannot of course 
exist in an army recruited purely by voluntary enlistment, as is our own, 
and in a country in which both the scale of wages and standard of living 
are high. To secure recruits by voluntary enlistment the service must be 



THE RATION. 19! 

made attractive, and in accomplishing this end an abundance of good food 
is a potent factor. Hence it is that the United States army is, as far as 
the garrison ration is concerned, by far the best fed army in the world. 

For field service it is obvious that the soldier will usually have neither 
the opportunity nor the wherewithal to add to his diet. All nations recog- 
nize the paramount value of proper nutrition where hard labor is to te per- 
formed, and appreciate the false economy of too greatly reducing the sol- 
dier's diet under such conditions. Hence for field service the rations of 
foreign armies are greatly increased until, as in the case of the Austrian 
ration, doubled in time of war, the food allowed the soldier may even be 
in excess of that supplied in our own service. The statement may there- 
fore be accepted without qualification that no civilked nation will, at the 
present day, attempt to maintain an under-fed army in the Held. All 
fully appreciate that generous subsistence is an element in the absence of 
which there can be no efficiency, and that parsimony in respect to food 
will bring its own punishment through defeat. 

III. 
THE SEVERAL ARTICLES OF THE RATION. 

MEAT AND FISH COMPONENTS. 

In the United States service meat is supplied in the fresh state as beef 
or mutton and in the salted or preserved condition as beef, bacon or pork. 
It ordinarily rests with the department commander as to how much of 
each kind of article the soldier shall have, and it is customary to direct 
that in ten days there shall be seven issues of fresh beef, two of bacon 
and one of pork. It usually happens, however, that much of the pork and 
bacon is not drawn, but the money value of the same saved and expended 
for articles of food of a more desirable nature. Except in the field, when 
fresh meat cannot be supplied, salted or preserved meats are not employed 
to any considerable extent. Under the best of circumstances these arti- 
cles soon become distasteful, and the craving for fresh meat which early 
ensues is responsible for the foraging expeditions which soldiers in the 
field, long deprived of fresh supplies, are so prone to undertake. This 
craving is well understood by the authorities in all armies, and every 
effort is made to supply the want by providing freslily killed or refriger- 
ated meat, in garrison or distributed from convenient points in the field, 
or by purchasing beef cattle to be driven with marching troops and slaugh- 
tered as required. Under all circumstances fresh meat should be supplied 
where it can be obtained. 

Fresh Meat. In our service it is intended that the soldier shall 
receive the full benefit of the fresh meat ration, and no savings in this 
respect can be purchased by the Government. The daily allowance of 
twenty ounces for the United States soldier is ample when the meat is of 
good quality, and is far more generous than the ordinary fresh meat ration 
of foreign armies. Its weight, however, is not based upon meat free, from 
bone; and hence a deduction of ten to thirty per cent., according to breed 
and cut, must be made for bone from the gross allowance. In determiua- 



192 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



tions made by the Subsistence Department the average proportion of bone 
in beef, for the parts of the animal issued, was found to be about fifteen 
per cent. In mutton the proportion of bone is said to be somewhat higher. 
The waste due to bone is relatively greater in young animals, and in veal 
it may amount to as much as thirty per cent. As a general rule the pro- 
portion of bone in fresh beef suitable for issue will not exceed twenty per 
cent. 

Under the influence of cooking the weight of the meat ration still fur- 
ther diminishes. When meat is boiled for a long period the loss may 
amount to as much as thirty-five per cent., while roast meat may lose an 
even more considerable part of its weight by evaporation and by the melt- 
ing of its fat; the decrease in weight beyond a certain point being ap- 
proximately proportionate to the amount of fat present. In the ordinary 
processes of cooking the following results have been obtained by the Sub- 
sistence Department : 





In boiling. 


In baking. 


In roasting. 


Four pounds of beef lose 


1 pound. 


1 pound 3 ounces. 


1 pound 5 ounces. 


Four pounds of mutton lose . . 


14 ounces. 


1 " 4 " 


1 " 6 " 



The flesh of young animals, as veal, loses greatly in weight, forty to sixty 
per cent., as a result of cooking; and very great loss is also said to occur 
witli the flesh of half -fed cattle. In cutting up the meat there is also a 
small waste, and it is thus evident that the fresh meat ration of twenty 
ounces, as delivered from the block, undergoes a diminution of about forty- 
five per cent, before being served leaving the soldier only about eleven 
ounces of cooked flesh as a daily net allowance. Viry states that in the 
French army the amount of cooked meat available for the soldier will not 
exceed thirty-five to thirty-eight per cent, of the raw weight. He places 
the ordinary proportion of bone in the beef issued in the French service, 
known as second quality beef, at twenty-four per cent. It is true that a 
certain amount of the fat lost by the meat is returned to the soldier in the 
form of gravy ; and the bones, when used in soup, possess a considerable 
nutritive value, especially when crushed, reckoned at about one-third that 
of an equal weight of beef in carbon and about one-sixth in nitrogen. 
The unavoidable loss is, however, considerable, and it may be accepted 
that the fresh meat ration, as issued from the block, ultimately affords the 
soldier the nutritive equivalent of not more than thirteen to fifteen ounces 
of bone-free meat ; its value varying slightly with the economy of the cook 
and the method of preparation. For the American soldier, accustomed to 
the use of a considerable quantity of meat in his dietary prior to entering 
the army, the above amount will not justly be considered as any more than 
sufficient in quantity, so that it behooves all who are concerned witli the 
soldier's ration to see that he receives the full benefit of the excellent qual- 
ity of meat with which he is supposed to be provided. 

Meat Contracts. In this connection it may be emphasized that the 
present system of awarding meat contracts, covering long periods, to the 
lowest bidder, is distinctly opposed to the interests of the soldier and 
favors sharp practice on the part of the contractor. Constant watchful- 



THE RATION. 193 

ness by sanitary officers is necessary to insure that the requirements of the 
contracts are properly carried out; for where competition is keen and the 
successful bidder secures his contract at a figure so low as to allow but a 
very small margin of profit, the temptation is great for unscrupulous deal- 
ers to supply troops with meat of inferior quality. It is undoubtedly the 
case, in many instances, that contractors bid so low that, if any unforeseen 
contingency arises, it is out of the question for them to supply meat of 
good quality at a profit. The rule of accepting the lowest bid, irrespective 
of other considerations, may thus frequently deter honest men from under- 
taking a contract for supply, which, by the stringent working of this rule, 
naturally falls to the less scrupulous speculator. Without the exercise of 
great care, beef from old or diseased animals, and from those in poor con- 
dition from long travel or hardship, will be offered for issue ; while con- 
tractors who have a civil and military clientele are prone to sell the choice 
cuts to outside customers, furnishing only cuts of inferior quality for the 
use of troops. The meat supplied is too frequently on the border line be- 
tween good and bad, and officers are unfortunately too prone to ]>ass over 
minor delinquencies on the part of contractors and fail to hold the latter 
to the strict letter of their contracts. In foreign armies the necessity of 
constant inspection of meat is fully appreciated; in the English, French, 
German and other services the senior medical officer with a regiment is 
required to inspect and approve all meat intended for issue to troops, and 
is held responsible for its good quality. 

Western beef cattle are in poor condition at certain seasons, particu- 
larly after drought or following a hard winter and late spring. Meat from 
such animals is naturally tough and lean, and possesses an undue proportion 
of bone. Where beef contracts are awarded for as long a period as one 
year, and at a price which prevents the contractor from supplying beef 
from other than neighboring and often sterile ranges, the quality will be 
periodically subject to criticism. Stall-fed animals might witli advantage 
be contracted for at least during certain specified seasons of the year. 

Where dressed meat is contracted for, it would be much to the advan- 
tage of troops if the practice of making local contracts could be discontin- 
ued and dealings be had, wherever possible, direct with large firms of 
known reliability, operating establishments at centrally located points. At 
these large establishments competent Government inspectors are always on 
hand, and would thus pass upon the quality of all meat intended for the 
military service, its uniformly good character being thus maintained. As 
far as troops located in the eastern, middle and southern states are con- 
cerned, it would seem as if this direct method of supply should in most 
cases entail little if any additional expense, since the profits of the local 
dealers, who themselves obtain most of their meat from these central estab- 
lishments, would thus be largely avoided. While of importance to the wel- 
fare of the soldier at all times, it is particularly in time of war that the 
inspection of meat, either on the hoof or on the block, should be carried out 
with the greatest care to prevent knavery on the part of contractors. 

Military Abattoirs. To avoid the many disadvantages of purchasing 

dressed meat by contract, government abattoirs have been established in 

connection with some of the larger military garrisons in France, Germany 

and England. Where smaller bodies of troops are located near towns, the 

13 



194 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



municipal abattoirs are in many instances used by them on certain days 
of the week. The animals slaughtered are carefully inspected by compe- 
tent officers both before and after killing, and an excellent quality of meat 
is thus insured for issue. As the purchasing agents of the Government 
usually deal directly with the cattle raisers, the profits of the middle-man 
are largely avoided, to the benefit of both the stock raiser and the state. 
This system has not been employed in our service during time of peace ; 
but in certain instances it might with advantage be adopted. 

Beef. In the United States service, mutton is rarely issued and fresh 
meat is almost invariably supplied in the form of beef. The latter, next to 
bread, therefore becomes the most important article of the soldier's diet. 

In its chemical composition, beef varies so greatly with the cut and 
with the condition of the animal that it is extremely difficult to formulate 
any averages for the whole. Analyses of some of the more important cuts, 
however, shown in a subsequent illustration, yield the following figures : 



Cut. 


Water, 
per cent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Fat, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound, Calories. 


Fore and hind quarters, average. 
Chuck 


50.5 
540 


14.7 
15 8 


15.8 
15 5 


944 

820 


Loin 


52.9 


16.4 


16.9 


1,020 


Ribs 


48.0 


13.8 


24.8 


1,305 


Round 


62.5 


19.2 


9.2 


745 


Rump 


46.9 


15.2 


18.6 


1,065 


Shoulder clod 


57.0 


16.5 


8.4 


660 













Contracts for the army require that fresh beef shall be good in quality 
and condition, fit for immediate use, and from fore and hind quarter meats 
proportionally, including all the best cuts thereof. Beef from bulls, stags, 
cows, hornless or diseased cattle shall not be delivered. The necks of the 
cattle slaughtered for beef shall be cut off at the fourth vertebral joint, and 
the breasts trimmed down; the shanks of fore-quarters shall be cut off 
four inches above the knee-joint, and of hind-quarters eight inches above 
the hock-joint. Necks, shanks and kidney tallow shall be excluded from 
delivery. It has been found by the Commissary Department that in a 
steer dressed according to contract the fore-quarters weighed 310 pounds 
15 ounces, and the hind-quarters 268 pounds 13 ounces the excess in 
weight of the fore-quarters being 42 pounds 2 ounces. This proportion 
has been found to be general ; consequently, in receiving fresh beef under 
contract it should be expected that the proportion of fore-quarters meat to 
hind-quarters meat would be about as eight is to seven. As to the char- 
acter of eating beef, cattle may be graded in the following order : Spayed 
heifer from four to seven years old ; steer or bullock (never worked) from 
four to six years old; "free-martin," or barren heifer, not over eight years 
old ; ox from five to eight years old ; heifer from three to four years old ; 
cow from three to eight years old. 

Beef Cattle. The purchase of animals on the hoof, for slaughter as 
food for troops, is a common procedure in foreign armies, many of which, as 
stated above, maintain military abattoirs, but the practice is comparatively 
rare in our own service. Under present conditions, within the United States, 
the supply of dressed beef to troops is usually easy of accomplishment ; but 



THE RATION. 195 

in war the reverse may be the case and the purchase of live cattle may be- 
come necessary. Before the adoption of modem processes of preservation, 
troops during campaign were obliged to depend on the country for their 
supply of fresh meat at best an insufficient and precarious source of sup- 
ply or have recourse to herds of beef cattle provided by the commissariat 
and driven with the army. Where troops are operating far from railroads, 
or at a long distance from the base of supply, these methods may still be 
necessary; but they present many obvious disadvantages, as experienced 
in our army during the Civil War. Where a subsistence herd accompanies 
troops the meat soon becomes poor in quality, tough and presenting an 
undue proportion of bone from insufficient grazing and much driving. If 
marching is constant and movements are rapid, it may frequently happen 
that the herd is left behind and not available when hard service renders 
the issue of good meat most to be desired. The subsistence herd has also 
not infrequently become infected with contagious disease, resulting in the 
death of taany diseased animals and the necessary slaughter of others. 
During the Franco-Prussian war the beef cattle of the invading Germans 
were largely diseased, and were credited with causing outbreaks of sickness 
in the population of the regions through which they passed. Wherever 
beef herds are maintained they should be under careful and constant in- 
spection, and any sick or ailing animals at once separated from the others. 

All meat-producing animals should be examined while living and after 
they are killed. Both inspections are made l>ecause there are some condi- 
tions that cannot well be detected after the animal is slaughtered, but 
which often have an important effect on the quality of the meat, as fever, 
fatigue, exhaustion, starvation and excitement. When animals are pur- 
chased in any large quantity the services of a veterinarian should be avail- 
able, but in his absence the medical officer should be able intelligently to 
carry out the necessary inspection. This duty is by no means difficult of 
performance, since the sick and unsound animals are readily eliminated 
and sex, age, and condition are at once determined these being the most 
important factors in estimating the quality of the meat. Animals should 
be inspected twenty-four hours before being killed. Such as have been 
accepted by the inspector should be at once branded or otherwise properly 
marked to prevent possible substitution and fraud. 

Weight. Where live beeves are purcliased it is specified in regulations 
for the Commissary Department that animals weighing less than 1,000 
pounds or more than 1,400 pounds must not be accepted except in case of 
necessity, when the purchase of those weighing less than 1,000 pounds is 
permitted. Ordinarily a net weight of 600 pounds is expected. It is 
required that all animals offered for sale shall be kept without food or 
water for the twelve hours immediately before weighing. The present 
method used in our service for estimating the net weight of cattle on the 
hoof is officially laid down as follows : 

Gross weight. Estimated net weight. 

800 pounds and less 40 per cent, of gross weight. 

Over 800 pounds and less than 1,800 pounds 50 

1,300 pounds and over 65 

This mode of determining the net weight is to govern only when the 
beeves are in condition to yield fresh meat of good quality. In the Civil 



196 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



War fresh meat was generally issued upon the hoof, the net weight of the 
animal bejng at that time determined by the following rule : From the 
live weight of a steer there is deducted twenty-five per cent, when the gross 
weight exceeds 1,300 pounds, and fifty per cent, when it is under 1,300 
and not less than 800 pounds. Where the beeves cannot be weighed it is 
directed that the animals be divided into three or more lots, graded ac- 
cording to apparent weight, and that from 
each lot an average animal be killed, 
dressed, trimmed and weighed. 

A satisfactory method for the deter- 
mination of the weight of an animal, 
where scales are not available, consists 
in measuring the length of the trunk 
from just in front of the scapulae to the 
root of the tail, and the girth or circum- 
ference just behind the scapulae; then by 
multiplying the square of the girth by 
0.08 and the product by the length, the 
dimensions in cubic feet are obtained; 
each cubic foot is supposed to weigh 42 
pounds avoirdupois. The formula is 
(C 3 X .08) X (L X 42) = weight; the 
result is in pounds avoirdupois. The 
skin is one-eighteenth of the weight ; the 
tallow one-twelfth. In very fat cattle 
the weight may be five per cent, more, 
and in very lean cattle five per cent, less 
than the actual weight found by the above 
rule. 

In the British service an ox is ex- 
pected to weigh not less than 600 pounds, 
while in the French army the minimum 
is fixed at about 550 -pounds. A fat 
cow will weigh from 700 to 750 pounds; 
a heifer should weigh at least 400 pounds. 

In the French army a minimum weight for cows to be accepted for food 
is fixed at 350 pounds. The largest and best-conditioned cattle in our 
own country come from the ranges of the northwest. Southern cattle, 
especially Florida cattle and those found in the tropics, are small and lean 
and their meat is stringy. 

Where meat is supplied on the hoof and pasturage is abundant, troops 
may realize a valuable saving, in quantity and quality, by allowing cattle 
to recruit from the exhaustion of a long journey and gain flesh by. feeding 
before slaughter. 

Age. The best quality of beef is found in animals from four to six 
years old. Before that time the maximum development is scarcely attained, 
while later the flesh undergoes deterioration in quality. Cows or heifers 
intended for slaughter should best be not more than four years old. Where 
veal is purchased by troops it should preferably be killed between the ages 
of three and five months; under six weeks of age veal is unfit for food. 




FIG. 63. 1, Lower Jaw of calf of eighteen 
to twenty months ; 2, lower jaw of animal 
of two years ; 3, lower jaw of beef of two- 
and one-half to three years ; 4, lower jaw 
of beef of three and one-half to four 
years ; 5, lower Jaw of beef at five years ; 
6, lower jaw of beef at twelve years. 
(After Lecoq.) 



THE RATION. 



197 



In the living animal, or where the head is attached to the carcass, the age 
is told with great certainty by the teeth; less accurately by the horns. 
The temporary teeth are in part through at birth, and all the incisors are 
through in twenty days; the first, second and third pairs of temporary 
molars are through in thirty days; the teeth are grown large enough to 
touch each other in six months, and gradually wear and fall in eighteen 
months; the fourth permanent molars are through at the fourth month; 
the fifth at the fifteenth ; the sixth at two years. The temporary teeth 
begin to fall at twenty-one months and are entirely replaced by the thirty- 
ninth to the forty-fifth month, the order being central pan* of incisors 
gone at twenty-one months ; second pair of incisors at twenty -seven months ; 
first and second temporary molars at thirty months; 
third temporary molars at thirty months to three 
years; third and fourth temporary incisors at thirty- 
three months to three years. The development is 
quite complete at from five to six years. At that time 
the border of the incisors has been worn away a little 
below the level of the grinders. At six years the first 
grinders are beginning^to wear and are on a level with 
the incisors. At eight years the wear of the first 
grinders is very apparent. At ten or eleven years the 
used surfaces of the teeth begin to bear a square mark 
surrounded with a white line ; and this is pronounced 
on all the teeth by the twelfth year; between the 
twelfth and fourteenth year this mark takes a round 
form. The appearance of the horns is less useful as a 
guide, but affords reasonably accurate data upon which 
to base an estimate of age. According to Laverau, a 
ridge appears at the base of the horn after the third 
year, with an additional ridge for each subsequent 
year. The rings on the horns, however, become indistinguishable in old 
age ; besides which unscrupulous dealers may file the horns. 

Condition. The condition of live cattle is generally told by the han- 
dling points, of which as many as twelve are given. Of these, however, 
but five need be mentioned, since an animal satisfactory in these points is 
sure to be good in the remainder. These points are the natches, or the 
bones by the side of the tail, the twist, the flank, the udder and the rib. 
The flesh on all these handling points should feel compact and firm, the 
twist or parts between the two buttocks should stand out prominently, the 
flank should be full and appear to meet the hand on passing it over the 
animal. The rib should be well covered with compact flesh and the cod 
or udder should be a large lump of firm fat. In half-fed animals the 
flesh will not be so firm to the touch as in fully-fed ones. To be able to 
properly tell the condition of a beast by handling requires some practice. 

Health. As indicating health, the inspector should note the general 
ease of movements; the quick bright eye; the nasal mucous membrane, 
red, moist and healthy looking; the tongue not hanging; the respiration 
regular, easy; the expired air without odor; the circulation tranquil; tlu> 
excreta natural in appearance. Disease is shown by an alteration in the 
conditions above mentioned. When sick, the coat is rough or standing; 




Fio. ftl.-Horn of Brf 
Animal Nine Yeara 
Old. Ufu-rUrcnm.) 



198 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



the nostrils are dry or covered with foam ; the eyes are heavy ; the tongue is 
protruded ; the respiration is difficult ; movement is slow and difficult. There 
may be diarrhoea, scanty or bloody urine or other abnormal symptoms. In 
the cow the teats are hot. The more common diseases likely to engage 
the attention of the inspector are pleuro-pneumonia, anthrax, tuberculosis, 
foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest and actinomycosis. The nature of any 
of these affections, if at all advanced, is usually readily recognized. 

In time of peace, or when supplies are abundant, diseased animals 
should invariably be rejected. In foreign countries a disease not likely to 
injure the health of the consumer is not regarded as sufficient reason for the 
rejection of a carcass. In the United States, however, people are more 
particular in regard to the quality and character 
of the food they eat than are those of any other 
country, and there is an almost universal senti- 
ment against eating the meat of animals affected 
with any disease, whether the latter be directly 
communicable to the consumer or not. There is 
no doubt but that this practice is wise, since in 
nearly every diseased condition the quality of the 
meat is inferior. If food is scarce, the flesh of cattle 
affected with any of the above diseases, save an- 
thrax, may in an emergency be eaten after thorough 
cooking. 

Dressed Beef. After an animal is slaugh- 
tered, the organs and flesh should be examined for 
evidence of diseases that are directly transmissible 
to the consumer, parasites that may be injurious, 
and any other conditions, which, while not directly 
transmissible, may render the flesh indigestible or 
toxic and thus produce digestive disturbances or 
more severe diseases. The carcass is also examined 
for the purpose of discovering conditions that ren- 
der the meat innutritious or offensive such as 
chronic wasting diseases, emaciation, old age or 
immaturity. 

The manner of cutting up a beef, as well as 
the nomenclature of the cuts, varies to some extent 
with local usage ; but the method shown in the accompanying diagram 
may in general be accepted as correct. For examination by the inspector 
the carcass is usually divided into quarters. The inspection should usu- 
ally be made, in temperate climates, twenty-four hours after slaughtering ; 
in the tropics it will frequently have to be performed immediately after 
dressing. With marching troops, slaughtering should be done as soon as 
camp is reached. The meat should be hung up for inspection, since in 
this way the entire surface is readily observed. If examined on a flat sur- 
face it may be safely assumed that anything of a doubtful nature which 
may exist will be found on the under side. Meat found to be of unsatis- 
factory character should be so marked as to prevent possible fraud on the 
part of the contractor. 

The inspection of meat on the block is by no means easy of proper 




FIG. 65. Diagram of Cuts of 
Beef. 1, Neck; 2, chuck; 
3, ribs ; 4, shoulder clod ; 5, 
fore shank ; 6, brisket ; 7, 
cross ribs ; 8, plate ; 9, na- 
vel ; 10, loin ; 11, flank ; 12, 
rump ; 13, round ; 14, second 
cut round ; 15, hind shank. 



THE RATION. 199 

accomplishment, and the sanitary officer should familiarise himself with tho 
characteristics of good meat, qualities to be learned only by actual experi- 
ence. Good meat, in general, presents the following characteristic!: 

The lean parts in young, well-fed, healthy animals, after exposure to 
the atmosphere for some length of time, should be of a bright, clear-look- 
ing, cherry-red color. Should the cut portion of any meat under inspec- 
tion have been so long exposed as to become black and dried up, and the 
general conditions be such that there is a doubt whether the meat is accord- 
ing to contract, a fresh section should be made. As, however, raw meat 
freshly cut is always dark in color, no decision should be arrived at until 
the air has had at least an hour to act upon it, when, if it is as it should 
be, the color will have changed to that mentioned above. Pale, moist 
muscle marks the young or sickly animal, the dark colored the old one ; 
the muscular fasciculi are larger and coarser in bulls than oxen. A deep 
purple tint is said to indicate that the animal has not been slaughtered Imt 
has died with the blood in it. This blood is objectionable, not because it 
is unhealthful in itself but because it favors rapid decomposition. The 
lean should have a marbled appearance, due to the presence of adipose 
material among the .muscles. This marbling, however, will be chiefly 
found in the sections at the ribs and sirloins and will be absent from the 
sections of the fore and hind legs or buttocks. The fat should be reason- 
ably abundant but not in excess, hard and firm ; the lean should be full of 
juice and have a silky feeling to the touch ; the muscles should be firm 
and elastic, yet not tough. The fat on a carcass is a most important item 
in judging beef. The exterior should be covered with bright, healthy- 
looking fat; the pleura, peritoneum and pelvic cavity should be well fur- 
nished and the kidneys surrounded with adipose material. In a fattened 
ox the fat may constitute as much as one-third of the flesh, but the amount 
varies with the feed of the animal. The meat should possess a pleasant, 
sweet taste, while the odor should be slight and not disagreeable. When 
such meat is placed on a white plate a little reddish juice flows out after 
some hours. In temperate climates the marrow of the hind legs is solid 
twenty-four hours after killing, and is of a light rosy red. If it is soft, 
brownish or with black points, the animal has been sick or putrefaction is 
commencing. The marrow of the fore legs is more diffluent, something 
like honey, and is a light rosy-red color. In general, variation from the 
characteristics of good meat, as noted above, will indicate flesh of an under- 
fed, coarse or diseased character. 

Age. For determining the age of a dressed carcass no defined signs 
are available. It is of value to remember, however, that in the young ani- 
mal the bones are small, soft, porous and of a pinkish color; but as the 
animal grows older the bones become large, harder, less porous and whiter 
in color. The inside part of the ribs is very pink in young animals, but 
as age increases, this color fades away and the ribs at about six or eight 
years old become quite white. The tops of the spinous processes forming 
the chine are composed of gristle in the young animal, but are ossified about 
the age of six years. The pubes or aitch bone is only joined by gristle in 
the young animal, but this ossifies also about the age of six years. Before 
this gristle has ossified the butcher divides it with his knife in dressing th- 
animal and the blue cartilage is plainly seen in the sides or quarter after- 



200 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ward ; but after it has ossified the saw has to be resorted to. By the ninth 
year all the signs of youth will have disappeared, and the lean, instead of 
being soft and silky to the touch, will have become tough and stringy. 
As a rule, there will be a marked deficiency in the quantity of fat, and the 
carcass in general will present a gaunt, angular and ill-conditioned ap- 
pearance. 

Sex. It is important that the sex of the animal, from which the meat 
under inspection was derived, should be determined; a matter of no great 
difficulty if the various points of difference, given below, have been care- 
fully considered. In the hind quarter of the steer, at the root of the piz- 
zle, is found the erector muscle, which is about three inches in length by 
one and a half inches in breadth. In the bull this muscle, is much more 
fully developed than in the ox, and is much wider, darker in color and 
coarser in grain. The pizzle in the ox is small and undeveloped, not thicker 
than the finger. In the bull it is largely developed. It is often split and 
partly removed in order to make it appear of the same size as that of the 
ox ; or it may be entirely removed and the retractor muscle left in. There 
is more cod fat in ox than in bull beef, and in the bull the cavity is gen- 
erally seen from which the testicle has been removed. In bull meat gen- 
erally, owing to the superior muscular development of that animal, the 
proportion of muscular tissue or lean meat is much greater than it is in the 
ox, and this gives the whole quarter of the bull a darker and redder appear- 
ance. The lean of the young ox is juicy, smooth and silky to the touch, 
florid in color and marbled with fat ; but in the bull the marbling is ab- 
sent, and on touch a most valuable aid in judging of the quality 
of meat the coarseness, stringiness and toughness of the texture is 
easily detected by passing the thumb or finger gently over the cut sur- 
face of the lean. The fat, though less plentiful in the full-grown bull, 
will be of a distinctly whiter color than that of the ox. No matter 
how well a bull is fed, the proportion of fat to lean is very considerably 
less than in the steer ; in fact, an old bull has hardly any fat at all on 
his carcass, and what there is will be found almost entirely on the hind 
quarters. The chief distinguishing features of a fore quarter of an ox from 
that of a bull is the collar or crest, which in the bull is very large and 
muscular, requiring at least the whole hand to grasp it, but in the ox is 
very much smaller and can be grasped between the forefinger and thumb. 
The quarters themselves are narrower and slighter than those of the ox ; 
but in general the bony structure, and especially the aitch bone, is very 
much more massive in the bull. 

Young cows are rarely killed for beef, for if in good health they possess 
much greater value for dairy or breeding purposes. When young and in 
good condition the flesh is silky and juicy to the touch and possesses all 
the attributes of good beef. In distinguishing cow from heifer i>eef the 
udder is the sign usually relied upon. In the heifer this gland is but 
slightly developed ; it is surrounded by fatty tissue and forms a uniform 
thick wall on either side of the flank. After the delivery of one calf the 
surface of the udder will be slightly soft, but the main portion will still 
consist of adipose tissue and the small milk-ducts will just be visible. 
After the second calf the udder will be partially composed of a tough, 
brown, spongy substance and partly of fine fat, while the milk ducts will 



Plate .VII. 




Fig. 2. 







Fig. 1 



Fig. T,hvul-qujarterofCo*r or Heifer- 

2 , Hirul-qiiJirte' o fBtdl 
3 , Hind- quarter of Ox 
(After Natter and Firth) 



THE RATION. 201 

be much more prominent. As the number of calves increases, the udder 
becomes looser, browner and more spongy in appearance. To make the 
hind quarter of a cow resemble that .of a heifer the udder is sometimes 
cut out while the carcass is warm and the skin is then skewered neatly 
over the excised part. The fraud is at once exposed by removing the 
skewers, and a quarter tampered with in this manner should be promptly 
rejected. It is very difficult to tell the fore-quarter of a heifer from that of 
an ox. 

The pelvic bone of the old cow is unmistakable. As age increases, the 
portion nearest the udder gradually wears away and becomes narrower, 
while that nearest the haunch generally broadens considerably. The fat 
of the old cow is usually deficient in quantity and of a brighter yellow 
than that of young animals ; though the latter fact, unsupported by other 
evidence, is not sufficient cause for rejection, as it may be attributable to 
breed or feeding. The flesh in old cows is generally coarse, dry and 
stringy. In the fore-quarter the chief indications that the animal is old 
are the bleached ribs, want of fat on the ribs and pleura, and a very promi- 
nent scapula or shoulder bone, with a hollowness or falling away on either 
side of it which gives a concave or " shelly " appearance to the quarter. 

Quality. Carcasses of animals that are slaughtered shortly after com- 
ing off ship-board, especially in bad weather, or have been transported long 
distances in crowded cars, are sometimes found to be mucli bruised and 
occasionally to have abscesses; the bruised parts may be cut out and the 
healthy part issued. The flesh of animals killed on account of acccidents 
is usually dark and discolored by reason of not having been bled, the tho- 
racic and the abdominal walls are stained from contact with the viscera ; 
the odor is offensive and there is discoloration from incipient decomposi- 
tion. Most meat of this class should be condemned. If the injuries are 
localized and the animal is at once slaughtered, the carcass being properly 
dressed, the undamaged parts are normal in condition and may be eaten 
without injury. The flesh of over-driven animals is harsh in character, 
has a strong, peculiar odor and is wanting in that juicy characteristic 
noticed in good, well-fed animals which have been rested before slaughter. 
The color of such meat is dark, rigor mortis begins early, decomposition is 
rapid and the muscles are highly acid. The flesh of over-driven and ex- 
hausted animals is said frequently to produce diarrhoea when eateu. In 
certain tropical countries it is customary to work cattle on the yoke for 
some years and then fatten them for market purposes. Such animals are 
habitually driven with sharp goads instead of whips, and, on slaughtering, 
the muscular tissue is found to contain cicatricial nodules or cavities, hold- 
ing pus or detritus resulting from the injuries produced by the free use of 
these goads. 

In commencing putrefaction the color of the meat becomes paler. The 
consistence is altered and some parts of the meat are softer than others, 
tearing apart readily when stretched. A greenish tint may be later appar- 
ent and the putrefactive odor is marked. Taint in suspected meat is best 
found by plunging a knife or clean wooden skewer into the thickest part 
of the flesh and observing the odor acquired. This precaution is especially 
necessary in warm weather. The meat of healthy animals, when slightly 
decomposing, may often be eaten without danger; but occasionally it gives 



202 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

rise to gastrointestinal disorders, vomiting, diarrhoea and great depression. 
In some instances severe fe'brile symptoms occur, accompanied by marked 
cerebral complications. These effects are produced by the ptomaines re- 
sulting from the action of the micro-organisms of putrefaction ; cooking 
appearing to have little or no influence in destroying the toxic properties of 
the ptomaine. 

Fresh meat, derived from unsound animals, has not infrequently given 
rise to severe toxic symptoms, particularly if kept in dark, unwholesome 
and poorly ventilated places. The poisonous qualities of the meat appear 
to depend upon the formation of a ptomaine resulting from the action of a 
specific bacillus the Bacillus enteritidis first discovered by Gaertner in 
the flesh of a cow affected with severe diarrhoea ; the meat of this animal 
having given rise to severe toxic symptoms in those who had partaken of 
it. This bacillus grows easily on ordinary media and is very fatal when 
injected subcutaneously into rabbits and guinea-pigs. It has since been, 
isolated by other observers in a considerable number of cases of poisoning 
by bad meat. Veal appears especially liable to undergo change in the 
formation of ptomaines. According to Laveran, of 30 epidemics of intoxi- 
cation from fresh meat occurring in France, 14 of them resulted from the 
use of fresh veal a proportion extremely high when it is considered that 
veal is not a common staple of diet but rather an article of luxury. In 
one outbreak mentioned by this writer, occurring in the Seventy-second 
Regiment of the line, of 147 men who partook of some poorly cooked veal 
no less than 135 became sick; 10 cases were extremely serious and 2 deaths 
resulted. 

Sausages, meat pies and hash, even when made from meat of appar- 
ently wholesome character, are liable to undergo fermentative changes in 
the formation of ptomaines, especially when allowed to stand in warm 
weather or placed in covered dishes, near a fire, over night. Hash prepared 
the night before it is to be eaten is particularly prone to such changes, and 
outbreaks of intestinal disturbances, varying from simple diarrhoea to marked 
choleraic symptoms, have not infrequently followed the use, in our own 
service, of such preparations. At Fort Sam Houston, in 1888, out of a 
company of the Nineteenth Infantry twenty -eight men were reported as 
having suffered from ptomaine poisoning; while at West Point and Walla 
Walla, in 1898, an entire company in each post was prostrated from the 
use of stale hash. At West Point, in 1895, fifty-four cadets were affected 
with ptomaine poisoning from a similar cause. Many other outbreaks of 
this character have also been reported. The symptoms of ptomaine poi- 
soning usually follow rather closely on the ingestion of the meat, but may 
be delayed as much as thirty-six hours. In character, when severe, the 
symptoms closely resemble those produced by irritant poisoning and are 
accompanied by marked nervous depression and collapse. The ptomaines 
appear to resist a comparatively high temperature and hence cooking, even 
when thoroughly carried out, does not render them harmless, even though 
it destroys the micro-organisms to which they owe their origin. It should 
not be forgotten, in this connection, that a return to a fresh meat diet from 
salt rations often induces diarrhoea, frequently very free in character. This, 
however, does not occur if the meat is eaten at first in moderation. 

Among the transmissible affections to which beef cattle are liable, 



THE RATION. 



Mao 




Fio. 66.-Life Cycle of the B.-** 
Tapeworm. (Afu-r Bulllngvr.) 



capable of influencing the health of man, the most important are the 
occurrence of cysticerci, tuberculosis and anthrax. 

Cysticercus Disease. When the Cysticercus bovis is present in 
beef the latter is known as " measly " the life history of the parasite being 
as follows : The eggs of the beef taj>eworm, Taenia 
mediocanellata or saginata, are expelled with the 
dejecta of its host and do not undergo further 
development unless entrance be obtained to the 
alimentary canal of the ox. From here the em- 
bryo, liberated by the digestive juices, ]>asses into 
the voluntary muscles of the animal, where it re- 
mains as the bladder-worm or Cysticercus bovis. 
An ox affected with this parasite may contain 
many hundreds of such cysticerci within its mus- 
cles. In the living animal the cysticercus is sup- 
posed to survive for several years, but it ordinarily 
dies about fourteen days after the death of its 
host ; this fact having especial importance in connection with the storage 
and refrigeration of meat. It is killed by exposure to strong brine for 
twenty-four hours and is unable to withstand a tem- 
perature of 140 F. for five minutes. In ordinary 
salting, however, it requires some time for the brine 
fully to penetrate the tissues. On the flesh of the 
affected animal, either raw or imperfectly cooked, 
being taken into the alimentary tract of man, the cys- 
ticerci develop into the sexually complete taenLu and 
the life cycle of the parasite is completed. The cyfc- 
ticerci are usually most numerous in the haunch and 
closely resemble those found in "measly " ]>ork, here- 
after described ; but are said to l>e much more difficult 
to detect, since, according to Laveran, they rapidly 
disappear under exposure to the air, by desiccation, 
and their presence may be overlooked unless care is 
taken to examine a fresh piece of meat. To render 
the cysticerci more apparent it is 
frequently of advantage to moisten 
the surface of the meat to be ex- 
amined. The head of the cysti- 
cercus of the ox is relatively larger 

than the cysticercus of pork ; it is provided with four 
strong, prominent suckers, but lacks the booklets cliar- 
acteristic of the cysticercus of the hog. In case of 
doubt the suspected cysticercus may be taken between 
the fingers and gradual pressure exerted, this causing 
the protrusion of the head, upon which the four su< 
are readily distinguished. The only parasites in cattle 
liable to be mistaken for " measles " are Cysticercus 
tenuicollis and Echinococcus polymorphic. Neither of these parasites is 
directly transmissible to man. 

" Measles " is said to be particularly common in the cattle of India and 



.',' ; i'., i ; ' II 



..' 




Fio. 67. Cysticerel bovis: 
A, In muscle; B, devel- 
opmental form, bead 
everted. (After Leuc- 
kart.) 




Pin. W.-Tnln- Necked 
Bladder Worm. CT- 
thfrvun tvnulo>llta. 
with Head Extruded 
from Body. Natural 



204 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Abyssinia, and Laveran states that infection by the beef tapeworm is very 
common among the French troops in Algiers and Tunis. The same writ- 
er states that one-fifth of the beef cattle slaughtered at the military abattoirs 
in Tunis are affected with cysticerci. In the United States and England 
the beef tapeworm is said to be much more frequent than the pork tape- 
worm ; probably from the common habit of eating rare beef and the greater 
care given to the thorough cooking of pork. In the United States army, 
during the Civil War, there were noted 566 cases of tapeworm; while for 
the period of twenty-seven years, 1868-94, tapeworm was reported as 
occurring in 1,280 cases, giving a yearly average of 47.4. No differentia- 
tion in diagnosis appears to have been made between infections by T. 
mediocanellata and T. solium, but it is extremely probable that most of 
the cases noted were due to the former parasite ; especially since trichino- 
sis, common in American swine, was very rare in our army during the 
same period, this fact showing that pork is ordinarily sufficiently cooked 
to destroy any contained parasites. During the years 1895-97 the cases 
of "taenia and other intestinal parasites " numbered 114; and for 1898 there 
were 50 such cases reported. In the British service in India the rate of 
admission for tapeworm was 9 per 1,000 for 1898, 11 for 1897 and 11 for 
the decade 1887-96. In 1898 there were reported 162 cases of Taenia 
solium and 6 for Tsenia mediocanellata. In the Bombay district alone, in 
1898, the admissions for tsenia were no less than 24 per 1,000. These 
figures show the importance of more careful inspection and better cooking 
of meat in our service ; particularly since troops serving in the tropics will 
often be forced to rely upon native beef, well known to be largely affected 
with cysticerci. 

There appears to be no way by which the presence of cysticerci in the 
ox can be definitely determined during the life of the animal. By exam- 
ining the under side of the tongue it is occasionally possible to find small 
lumps which can be moved by the fingers and which may represent cysti- 
cerci. It is rare, however, that this method leads to practical results and 
no reliance should be placed on it. 

Tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is a very common affection among cattle, 
especially among mature animals, thus showing that the influence of con- 
tagion is more to be feared than that of heredity. It is more frequent in 
stabled cattle than those allowed to range freely, and varies in frequency 
with locality. In the United States it has been determined that from 
twenty to thirty per cent, of milch cows are tuberculous, even those under 
the best sanitary conditions. The meat inspections of Berlin showed that 
no less than twenty-five per cent, was tuberculous. The proportion of 
tuberculosis in calves is much lower than in cattle; varying according to 
the age and the locality, bi\t averaging about eight per cent. In England 
twelve per cent, of beef is found to be tuberculous, while in Mexico as much 
as thirty-four per cent, appears to be so affected. In France tuberculosis 
in cattle does not appear to be relatively common. 

Bovine tuberculosis is compatible, unless well advanced, with the main- 
tenance of apparently good bodily condition ; and it is usually impossible 
to diagnose the affection in the living animal by the ordinary methods of 
physical examination. There may be no visible symptom of the disease 
in the animal unless in the case of an acute attack, when there is always 



THE RATION. 

fever and rapid wasting of the body. When the disease attacks the 
external organs, such as the udder, there is generally no constitutional 
disturbance ; this is much more likely to be present when the internal 
viscera are affected, but an animal may be extensively diseased and yet 
exhibit no symptom to call for special attention. Since the discovery of 
Koch's tuberculin, however, a safe and reliable means of diagnosis is always 
available, and by the use of this test the proportion of affected cattle has 
been found to be much greater than was formerly supposed. Brewer states 
that all competent authorities consider the test unerring; while Pearson 
states that of a very large number of animals which responded to this test 
and which were afterward slaughtered, all presented tuberculous lesions on 
post-mortem examination. 

According to De Schweinitz, the tuberculin employed in the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture is prepared in the following manner : One pound of 
finely chopped lean meat is added to one liter of distilled water, to which 
is also added one per cent, of peptone, one-fourth of one per cent, of salt, 
and seven per cent, of glycerin. The whole is heated to boiling and filtered. 
The filtrate is stored in sterilized tiasks and sterilized on three successive 
days. After the cc-tton plugs of the flasks have become dry, they are 
removed, dipped in melted paraffin and replaced in the flasks so as to make 
tight stoppers. The inoculation of the media with the micro-organism is 
accomplished in the usual manner, using a pure culture of tubercle bacilli 
grown for several weeks on glyceriu-agar or potato. A bit of the spongy 
growth so formed is detached by the platinum loop from the jelly or po- 
tato and carefully floated on the surface of the nutrient liquid ; if com- 
pletely immersed it will sink, and the bacilli, in the lack of oxygen, will 
not develop. The flask is then kept at a temperature of 98 F. until 
the surface of the liquid is covered with a growth of bacilli, this usually 
occurring in about ten days. When this is noted, the flask is carefully 
shaken, causing most of the growth to sink to the bottom of the liquid but 
leaving a small particle on the surface to serve as a nucleus for a new 
growth. The second growth is shaken down as in the first instance and a 
third growth allowed to form. This process will require six weeks to two 
months from the time the flask was first inoculated, and the contents are 
then in a condition for the preparation of tuberculin. The flask is then 
placed in an oven at 125 C. and allowed to remain until its contents 
begin to boil. It is then removed, its contents are carefully filtered and the 
residue on the filter paper is washed twice with distilled water. The filtrate 
and washings are then concentrated by evaporation down to one-fifth of 
the original volume. In the work of the Department of Agriculture, in- 
stead of sending out concentrated tuberculin, it has been found advisable 
to dilute it to such a strength that 2 c.c. will be a suitable dose for the 
purpose of diagnosing tuberculosis in cattle. To accomplish this dilution 
there is added, to the concentrated tuberculin, glycerin equal to one-fourth 
the original bulk of the culture liquid. This is then diluted with one- 
fourth of one per cent, carbolic acid, so that the volume of the tuberculin 
usually obtained is one-fourth more than the original quantity of culture 
media used. In other words, 1,000 c.c. of culture media, after the germ 
has been allowed to grow sufficiently long, diluted with the proper amount 
of glycerin and carbolic acid, should give 1,250 c.c. of tuberculin of such 



206 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

a strength that 2 c.c. would be a satisfactory dose for testing an animal of 
one thousand pounds in weight. 

Several methods of standardization of the tuberculin are employed. The 
amount of the tuberculin required to produce a rise of four or five degrees in 
temperature in tuberculous guinea-pigs of one pound in weight is noted ; or 
the quantity of tuberculin found necessary to kill a tuberculous guinea-pig ; 
or, again, a standard upon a chemical basis, depending upon the amount of 
acid which is produced by the growth of the bacilli, is used. All tubercle 
cultures after they are well grown show a decided acid reaction. If the 
reaction of the media is carefully noted before inoculation and again after 
the growth of the germ, it is found that the amount of acid reaction is 
increased proportionately to the quantity of the growth. By practice it is 
also found that this is approximately constant. If the value of a tubercu- 
lin made from a culture in which the acid reaction has been carefully 
tested is once noted, it serves as a guide for future work. In practice it 
has been found that healthy animals do not give reactions with large doses 
of tuberculin, and that as a rule tuberculous animals do not show an appre- 
ciably higher reaction with large doses of tuberculin than with medium 
doses; hence, while the above methods of standardization are not so accu- 
rate as those which would have to be used in weighing out a very poison- 
ous alkaloid, experience has shown that they are sufficiently accurate for 
ordinary work. 

If the animal is diseased, from six to eight hours after the injection of 
the tuberculin the temperature begins to rise from the normal, which in cattle 
varies from 101 to 102 F., and should continue to rise until it has reached 
105 to 107. A reaction of two degrees Fahrenheit above the normal may 
be considered as good evidence that the animal is infected with tuberculosis. 
The febrile reaction in tuberculous cattle, following the injection of tuber- 
culin, reaches its maximum nine to fifteen hours after the injection. The 
temperature should be taken every two hours, beginning six hours after 
the injection and continuing eighteen hours. Each adult animal should 
receive 2 c.c. of the tuberculin diluted by the above method. Yearlings 
and two year olds should receive 1 to 1.5 c.c., according to size. Bulls and 
very large animals may receive 3 c.c. The injection is made beneath the 
skin of the neck or shoulders ; no marked local swelling usually occurring 
at the seat of injection. There are, now and then, uneasiness, trembling 
and the more frequent passage of softened dung. There may also be slight 
acceleration of the pulse and of the breathing. A rise in the temperature 
on the day following the injection, of two or more degrees Fahrenheit 
above the maximum observed on the previous day, should be regarded as 
an indication of tuberculosis. For any rise less than this a repetition of 
the injection after three to six weeks is highly desirable. 

It must not be forgotten that tuberculin condemns many animals .in 
whom the disease may have but a slight foothold ; a tubercular nodule, 
small and confined to a bronchial gland, may give rise to a reaction as in- 
tense as if the animal were affected with a generalized tuberculosis. On 
the other hand, some tuberculous animals, after reacting several times to 
tuberculin, no longer react and may be marketed as healthy. It is not 
clear how such fraud can be prevented. 

In bovine tuberculosis the muscular tissue is .less frequently affected. 



THE RATION. 207 

Nocard states that of one hundred diseased animals examined, the lesions 
were found in the lungs and pleura in forty, in the lungs alone in twenty- 
five and in the serous membranes in twenty ; the lesions in the remainder 
being generalized or located in the lymphatic ganglia, the genital organs, 
the bony system or other parts. Tumors of the lungs, variable in dimen- 
sions and often calcified, are formed by the agglomeration of tubercles. 
They are hard, resistant and crackle under the knife. On section, their 
tissue appears of an intense yellow color and is rough to the touch. Some- 
times the tubercles present an obscure fluctuation and incision allows the 
escape of a thick, yellow, lumpy matter. The ordinary miliary tubercles 
are found around the tuberculous masses. The bronchial glands are also 
invaded where the lungs are affected; they are hypertrophied, hard and 
nodular, and on section appear like cheesy matter infiltrated with lime 
salts. The tubercles often cover the serous membranes. They appear like 
little tumors, round or mechanically flattened, hard, firm and white; 
sometimes disseminated over the serous membrane but often assuming the 
form of grapes, cauliflower or polyps, and many acquire considerable size. 
In inspecting beef carcasses care should be taken to observe the presence 
of the pleural and peritoneal membranes. In tuberculosis or pleuro-pneu- 
monia there are almost invariably adhesions of the lung and pleura. Ex- 
amination of the pleura will reveal this, or else there will be distinct evi- 
dence of the knife having been used in the attempt to remove the evidence 
of their existence. The under side of the diaphragm should also be care- 
fully examined, and, if the coating of either this or the ribs be removed, 
the carcass should be rejected. No weight should be given to statements 
to the effect that this stripping is the result of endeavors to remove the 
unsightly appearance caused by "over-sticking" or "body-sticking," other- 
wise, unskilful bleeding; the contractor is responsible for the skill of the 
men he employs and must be prepared to take any loss arising from their 
carelessness. In the udder, tuberculosis is characterized by sclerosis. In 
the centre of the tissue there is a new formation of finely granular tuber- 
cles; these slowly coalescing into a more or less voluminous mass, which 
undergoes cheesy degeneration and calcification. 

The characteristic bacilli have not infrequently been found in the fluid 
expressed from infected muscular tissue; they have also been observed in 
the blood and in the secretions of diseased organs. Feeding-experiments 
made with raw meat from tuberculous animals, from which the outwardly 
diseased portions had been removed, show that thirty-six per cent, of pigs 
kept on this food became tuberculous ; the most frequent seat of infection 
in such instances being the lymphatic glands of the throat. A practical^ 
objection to the use of any parts of tuberculous animals as food consists 
in the fact that butchers are ordinarily careless in the cutting up of car- 
casses, and tuberculous matter may find its way to the knives used and 
be transferred by them to portions which might otherwise have remained 
uncontaminated. It has been shown also that even when the disease is 
localized the blood may contain bacilli, and in this way the meat may be 
throughout a source of danger. Woodhead experimented in roasting and 
boiling meat smeared with tuberculous matter and found that rolls of such 
meat, over three or four pounds in weight, were not sterilized by the ordinary 
means of cooking. Boasting was the least and boiling the most effective 



208 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

method of destroying the bacilli. As a corollary to the points brought out 
above, the necessity for the thorough cooking of fresh beef, in all instances, 
becomes evident. 

An official decree was promulgated by the French Government in 1888 
forbidding the sale of tuberculous meat: (1) If the lesions were general- 
ized; (2) if the lesions, though localized, had invaded the greater part of 
an organ, or were manifested by an eruption on the walls of the chest or 
of the abdominal cavity ; such flesh was not to be used for feeding animals 
but must be destroyed. In Austria, when the affection is localized the 
remaining meat is passed as healthy. According to a recent Eussian re- 
script, the flesh of tuberculous cattle is looked upon as dangerous to health 
either when the flesh contains tuberculous nodules or when the tubercu- 
lous animal is in poor condition, even if no such nodules are present in the 
flesh. For the military service, in time of peace or when an abundance of 
provisions can be secured, the flesh of animals which react to the tubercu- 
lin test, or which present the characteristic lesions of the disease, even if 

slight, should be rejected. In time of 
scarcity the apparently sound portions 
of meat of slightly affected animals, if 
otherwise in good condition, need not 
necessarily be condemned but special 
care should be taken to insure thorough 
sterilization by cooking. When the 
lesions are generalized, the flesh of tu- 
berculous animals should under no cir- 
cumstances be used as food. 

Anthrax. Anthrax occurs in cat- 
tle, sheep, horses and sometimes pigs. 
The disease is rapidly fatal and the 
FIG. 59. -Bacilli orAnthrax in Blood. (After a ff ec ted animal may die in a few hours. 

The specific micro-organism associated 

with this disease, the Bacillus anthracis, is found chiefly in the blood and 
spleen of affected animals. It is rod-shaped, multiplies by division, and 
when injected into other animals produces the characteristic symptoms of 
the disease. In animals affected with anthrax, the liver, kidneys and 
spleen are congested. The spleen is enlarged, dark and frequently found 
to be ruptured. In the more localized affection, "black quarter," there are 
general hemorrhagic effusions into the subcutaneous or intermuscular tis- 
sues of the affected member. When boils and carbuncles form they are 
at once recognized. 

The flesh of animals affected with anthrax presents in high degree the 
appearance of meat taken from an animal sick with fever, but the specific 
nature of the condition cannot always be detected by mere inspection. An 
examination of the blood under the microscope shows the characteristic 
micro-organism; but the examination must be made shortly after death to 
prevent the bacilli of anthrax being confounded with the common bacilli 
of putrefaction, which develop with extraordinary rapidity. In the blood 
the bacillus of anthrax is short and rod-like and does not develop into the 
long filaments seen in artificial cultures. 

Anthrax is particularly dangerous because the germs circulate in the 




THE RATION. 

blood and reach every portion of the body. They are certain to be in 
every part of the meat taken from the carcass. Further, the bacilli of 
anthrax form spores when the carcass is dressed and the oxygen of the 
air comes in contact with the meat. These spores resist a very high tem- 
perature and may not be destroyed by cooking. It has been claimed by 
some that the flesh of animals affected with anthrax, if well cooked, is not 
dangerous ; and it is certain that such flesh has on several occasions been 
eaten with impunity. Its manipulation, however, is fraught with great 
danger prior to cooking, and many instances have occurred in which inoc- 
ulation from the carcasses of diseased animals has taken place. Many cases 
have also occurred in which the flesh of animals affected with anthrax has 
given the disease ; and inoculations made from the centres of affected roasts 
or steaks, after cooking, have almost invariably given positive results. Not 
only should the flesh of animals affected with anthrax be rejected as food, 
but it should be carefully destroyed, preferably by fire. 

Actinomycosis. This disease, also known as " lumpy jaw " in cattle, 
is ordinarily at once recognized by the eye from the cliaracteristic deformity 
of the jaw which it produces. In doubtful cases the 
nature of the disease, is readily determined by the 
microscope. The disease may also attack the lungs 
and bones. When the affection is advanced, the 
emaciation of the animal is usually great and the 
flesh is unfitted for food. In the early stages, when 
the affection is distinctly localized, the quality of the 
meat is not seriously impaired. The disease appears 
to be particularly common among range stock. 

Other Diseases. In cattle-plague, or rinderpest, 
the meat is seriously affected and is quite unfit for 
human consumption. In the sieges of Strasbourg and 
Paris, however, in 1814, many of the animals used 
as food had rinderpest and yet no evil consequences 
apparently resulted. This disease was extremely pre- 
valent among the beef herds accompanying the invading Prussians in 
1870-71, and many animals died from this cause. It is understood that, 
where possible, the German authorities made no use of the meat of such 
animals, regarding it as being of a dangerous character. 

Texas fever is a common disease of cattle in the United States, 
appearance of the meat is tliat induced by any febrile affection, 
is undesirable as food; but it may be used without harm, after thorough 
cooking, in an emergency. 

Epidemic pleuro-pneumonia is a disease peculiar to cattle, and 
contagious inflammation of the lungs and pleura; it has never been trans- 
mitted to other than bovine animals. Its effects are localized in the lungs 
alone, and even in these organs the disease is a limited one. 
vanced stages, and when a large area of lung tissue is destroyed, with e 
tensive pleurisy, the flesh becomes altered in color and consistence, 
and Firth advise that the carcasses of animals affected with pleuro-pn 
monia be passed as innocuous, if they present no departure from natural 
conditions. M . . 

Acute rheumatism in cattle is sometimes known as joint-ill 
14 




210 THEOKY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

"joint-felon." The serous fluid effused into the joints may become puru- 
lent, and abscesses may sometimes be found in the neighborhood of the 
affected joints. The meat becomes dropsical and the carcasses of animals 
so affected are totally unfit for human food. 

Laverau, Notter and Firth and others give a number of instances in 
which typhoid fever has apparently followed the use of meat of bad quality. 
In such cases the typhoid baccilli must have subsequently gained access to 
the blood and found conditions favorable for their development. It is, of 
course, impossible, in the light of our present knowledge, to admit that the 
meat of a diseased animal is capable of directly originating true typhoid. 

The flesh of feverish animals undoubtedly contains an abnormal quantity 
of leucomaines and perhaps of toxines, which are liable to affect the diges- 
tive organs, particularly in hot weather, and to cause illness in the con- 
sumer which is mild or severe in the, latter, according to his condition at 
the time of partaking. According to Miller, meat derived from animals 
affected with febrile diseases is more or less dark and of a dull tint ; the 
adductor muscles of the thigh usually being gray, earthy or yellowish. 
The serous membranes of the abdomen and chest are furrowed with hypo- 
static discolorations of a gray or livid color ; a purplish discoloration of the 
loins is rarely absent. The fat shows vascular injections, giving the ap- 
pearance of being streaked with wine. The smell is unpleasant and cadav- 
eric, especially on incision of the thighs and shoulders. The muscular 
tissue is lacking in firmness, and in long-standing diseases the tissues are 
bathed in serum ; the flesh is wet and pale, and rigor mortis does not read- 
ily take place. Such meat has a mottled appearance, readily "pits" on 
pressure and has not the elasticity of ordinary flesh. Meat of this char- 
acter should invariably be rejected in time of peace ; in severe straits it is 
better to issue it than allow troops to starve. It is said that melted fat is 
sometimes rubbed over the carcasses of thin and diseased animals to give 
the characteristic glossy look of health. 

When medicines have been given, diseased meat may present the odor 
of physic, very evident when the meat is chopped up and drenched with 
hot water. Meat of this character has been known to produce in man the 
characteristic symptoms of the medicine administered. 

Mutton. Fresh mutton, in the same quantity as beef, forms part of 
the legal ration. It is by no means suited for use as a steady diet, and 
only as an occasional issue is it relished by troops. Even when mutton 
of the best quality is available the issue of beef is almost always preferred 
by the men. A sheep yields about sixty per cent, of flesh available as 
food. A full-grown animal will weigh from sixty to ninety pounds, but 
the difference in breeds, in this respect, is very great. Sheep under fifty 
pounds should not ordinarily be received, since those under this weight 
tendered for issue are likely to be of inferior quality. The chief character- 
istics of good mutton are almost the same as in beef; and the general in- 
dications as to sex in sheep can be told much the same way as in cattle. 
The ram in relation to the wether presents much the same appearances as 
the bull in relation to the ox. The pizzle of the ram is about twice 
as thick as the ordinary lead pencil, while the pizzle of the wether is not 
more than half that size. In the ram the neck is very broad and massive 
as compared with that of the wether or ewe. The thick neck in the ram 



THE RATION. 



211 



corresponds to the crest of the bull; and the butcher may remove it and 

attempt to pass the remainder as contract mutton in the same way as the 

neck of the bull is sometimes cut off with a view of masking the sex 

Carcasses of mutton mutilated in this manner should 

be unhesitatingly rejected. In live animals, or where 

the head is attached to the carcass, the age may be 

told with accuracy. The temporary teeth begin to ap- 
pear in the first week and till the mouth at three 

months; they are gradually worn and fall at about 

fifteen or eighteen months. The fourth i*rniaiient 

grinders appeal- at three months and the fifth jir at 

twenty to twenty-seven months. A common rule is 

"two broad teeth every year." The wear of the teeth 

begins to be marked at about six years. Sheep fit for 

slaughter should always have a clean, even set of 

teeth ; in the British army those with broken teeth are 

rejected. Should the back of a carcass present a gen- 
erally discolored and veined appearance it is probably 

the result of age and want of condition, and the meat 

should be rejected. . It very frequently happens that 

mutton tendered by contractors is extremely fat, the 

proportion of fat to lean being so great as to give rise 

to complaint on the part of the men. Mutton suet 

suffers a large wastage in cooking; further, it imparts 

a disagreeable odor and tallowy taste to the nu-at. 

The amount of fat on a carcass may lie determined, without cutting it 
through, by ins^cting the region of the shoulders. If a 
bluish tinge is discernible the projxjrtion of fat is not too 
great. If, on the other hand, this tinge which is the 
lean showing through the covering of fat is absent, the 
carcass is too fat, and the contractor should be required to 
strip off some of the covering of the back as well as the 
surplus fat about the kidneys. It is best to see personally 
that this is done, since otherwise only a very superficial 
trimming will take place. Should the contractor refuse to 

remove the surplus fat the carcass should be rejected. The average chemi- 
cal composition of mutton is as follows : 




Fin. 71. Diagram of 
rut* of Mutton. 1, 
Ntrk : 2. rhm-k : a. 
shoulder ; 4, Dank ; 5. 
iuln : 6. \,-ti. 




FIG. 72. Dlstomum 
Hepaticum. 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fat, percent. 


Fuel ralue per pound. 


43.8 


16.8 


22.2 


1,152 



The diseases affecting sheep are similar to those of cattle. Of these 
anthrax is the most important. Sheep also frequently suffer from acute 
pulmonary troubles, htematuria and other diseases. Of the chronic lung 
affections, one of the most important is the so-called phthisis, which i> 
duced by the ova of strongylus filaria. The entozoo'n has not yet been found 
in the muscle, and the meat is said to be good. The Distomum hepaticum 
is frequently found in the livers of sheep, which may contain large num- 
bers of this parasite. The number of cases of human infection by this 



212 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

parasite are not large, but they are sufficiently numerous to indicate that 
they may be the cause of severe, though not often fatal, disorders. The 
affected liver should in all cases be destroyed, and the carcass condemned 
if it be deteriorated in quality; this being usually the case in advanced 
stages of the disease. 

The flesh of a young, well-fed goat which has been properly castrated 
when young, or of a maiden female goat, is so much like mutton that it is 
extremely difficult to tell the difference when cooked. 

Pork. The chemical composition of some of the more important cuts 
of fresh pork, as purchased, is as follows : 



Cut. 


Water, 
per cent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Fat, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pouud. Calories. 


Ham 


45.1 


14.3 


29.7 


1,520 


Loin '. . . . . 


40.8 


13.2 


26.0 


1,340 


Shoulder . . 


44.9 


12.0 


29.8 


1,480 













While not included in the ration, fresh pork at contract price for beef 
will give pleasing variety and prove an economy when it can be kept. 
The lard may be rendered and all unconsumed grease preserved for culinary 
use, thus saving an otherwise necessary purchase from the commissary. 
Under-done pork, however, may cause erythema 
and urticaria, and such pork is always a source of 
danger through the animal parasites which it may 
be in a condition to transmit. The flesh of ap- 
parently healthy pigs has not infrequently caused 
diarrhceal outbreaks, which at times have even 
assumed a choleraic character. In 1896 a severe 
outbreak of this character occurred at West Point, 
affecting twenty-five men. 

Hogs, when full grown, weigh from one hun- 
dred to one hundred and eighty pounds or more, 
and yield from seventy-five to eighty per cent, of 
available food, of which as much as one-half may 
be fat. Old or diseased swine should be rejected. 
The age of the pig may be told up to three years 
by the teeth ; after that there is no certainty. The 
temporary teeth are complete in three or four 
months; about the sixth month the pre-molars, 
between the tusks and the first pair of molars, 
appear; in six to ten months the tusks and pos- 
terior incisors are replaced; in twelve months to 
two years the other incisors; the four permanent 

molars appear at six months ; the fifth pair at ten months ; and the sixth 
and last molars at eighteen months. 

Hogs are frequently kept by companies at military posts, being fed on 
kitchen refuse and a certain amount of gram. This practice has its advan- 
tages from an economic standpoint, but the styes and their surroundings 
are almost invariably allowed to lapse into such bad sanitary condition as 




FIG. 73. Diagram of Cuts of 
Pork. 1, Head: 2, shoul- 
der; ::. back; 4, middle 
cut; 5, belly; 6, ham; 7, 
ribs; 8, loin. 



THE RATION. 213 

to render the keeping of hogs by troops quite inadvisable. The flesh of 
swine fed on garbage is quite inferior to that of grain-fed animals; and 
Gamgee states that pigs fed on flesh have a peculiarly soft, diffluent fat 
and emit a strong odor from their bodies. The pig is not infrequently at- 
tacked by swine fever; more rarely by anthrax. Cobbold showed that the 
flesh of the pig, especially the fat, sometimes contains a large parasite, 
Stephanurus dentatus. The worm is at first free and then encysted ; the 
cyst is large and ,may be one and three-fourth inches in length and one- 
half inch in diameter. The full-grown worm may be as much as one and 
one-half inches in length. Three to six eggs are found in the cyst; the 
young worms migrating into the surrounding tissue after hatching. This 
parasite is not known to induce disease in man, although its presence in 
flesh intended for food is certainly undesirable and may be a cause of 
apprehension to inexperienced inspectors. Its true nature is readily deter- 
mined by the microscope. 

Pork Measles. The eggs of the pork tapeworm, or Titnia solium, 
after being expelled from the affected person, are not infrequently taken up 
by the hog. In the latter event the contained embryo is li berated, passes 
into the muscular structure of the animal 
and becomes metamorphosed into the blad- 
der worm, or Cysticercus cellulosae, giving 
rise to the appearance known as " measles. " 
The embryo remains in the flesh until the 
death of the animal acting as host, or until 
it passes with the flesh of the animal, used 
as food, into the stomach of man, when it 

develops into the mature tapeworm identical ^*^__^^ / ' \Mn 

with that from which its life cycle was Hog 

begun. It should not be forgotten that the Oyat - CeXV 

eggs of the Tienia solium, when taken in by Fl0 ' T4 " 1 fM8ifi2T l1 * >Uum - 
man, undergo development the same as in 

the hog; man thus serving as the intermediate host of the cysticerci. 
As showing its frequency, Stiles states that the proportion of cases of 
Cysticercus cellulosie, occurring in cadavers dissected in Berlin, fell from 
1:31 before the introduction of meat insjiection to 1:280 after a system 
of meat inspection was instituted. Where the number of cysticerci is small 
the resulting symptoms are insignificant and obscure. Where the number 
of parasites is large the condition of the individual acting as host may be- 
come serious. 

Satisfactory statistics as to the proportion of pork measles in American 
hogs are lacking. During life there are few indications of the existence of 
cysticerci in the animal. The only positive sign to be obtained is in the 
mouth, where the cysts may sometimes be detected on the base and sides 
of the tongue, or between this and the lower jaw. According to Laverau, 
these cysts may be caused to disappear by pricking with a needle; he 
stating that this practice is not infrequently resorted to by unscrupulous 
dealers. The body of the affected animal may have a soft, flabby feeling, 
and on firm pressure a crackling sensation may be imparted to the fingers. 
The latter signs are unreliable. 

" Measles " in pork are readily recognized by the eye when the cysti- 




214 , THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

cerci are numerous. These appear in the flesh as small, somewhat elon- 
gated gelatinous cysts, usually about the size of a pea, lying among the 
muscles. The cysts may be so numerous as to cause the flesh to crackle 
under the knife. Sometimes they are present in the liver in large num- 
bers, giving that organ a mottled appearance on section ; and Stiles states 
that as many as twenty thousand may occur in a single carcass. They 
are readily enucleated by pressure, leaving a cavity. When the meat is 
cooked, the cysts become opaque and pearly white. " Measly " pork has a 
pale, flabby appearance and is soft and apparently dropsical. The tongue, 
heart, intercostal muscles and neck are the parts most frequently affected, 




FIG. 76. 1, Cystlcercl In muscle ; 2, cystlcercl removed from muscle ; 3, external coat opened to show para- 
site ; 4, body of parasite extruded from cyst ; 5, longitudinal section, showing parasite In situ ; <>, ex- 
ternal coat opened to show inner lining containing parasite ; 7, 8, inner coat cut open and parasite ex- 
truded ; 9, cysticercus, with head, neck and body outside the cyst. Enlarged. (After Davaine.) 



and these are the regions to which the attention of the inspector should be 
especially directed. As above stated, the cysts, though variable in size, are 
ordinarily readily visible to the naked eye ; and in all cases then- nature is 
easily determined by the microscope. The smallest cysticercus observed by 
Leuckart in the pig was about y^-g- of an inch long and -j-jj-g- of an inch 
broad ; but they are generally much larger and may attain a length of 
three-fourths of an inch. Living specimens of Cysticercus cellulosae have 
been found in pork twenty-nine days after slaughtering but after fourteen 
to twenty days of cold storage the parasites are said to be dead. More ob- 




THE RATION. 215 

servations are needed on this subject. Cooking ordinarily kills cysticerci, 
but the meat must be well done throughout. Exposure to a temperature 
as low as 125 F. for the period of five minutes is said to destroy the vi- 
tality of the parasite, and the temperature of well-done meat must 
always attain this point. Cysticerci are killed by hot, not common, smok- 
ing, but salting does not have this effect. "Measly " pigs are said to alt 
badly. Old and rusty pork is frequently termed "measly;" but this term, 
in the absence of the characteristic cysticerci, is incorrect. Pork contain- 
ing cysticerci should invariably be rejected as being unfit for consumption 
by troops. 

Trichinosis. The presence of the Trichina spiralis is by no means 
uncommon in swine, the proportion being generally considered as about 
two per cent, in all animals raised in this country and this fact has served 
as an excuse for the exclusion of Ameri- 
can pork from certain foreign markets. 
Of all the examinations made by the 
Massachusetts Board of Health, the pro- 
portion of trichinous hogs found was 6.3 per 
cent. Although infection with trichinae 
is very rare among our soldiers, only one 
case having been reported during the thirty- 
one years 1868 to 1898, this immunity 
should be regarded as due rather to a na- FIG. 78.-ufe cycle and intermedia* 
tional dislike of under-done pork than to JJJ^.f Tricbtaa gfinUa - (Atler **' 
the freedom of swine from this parasite. 

Several severe epidemics of trichinosis have occurred in the German 
army, and the symptoms induced by this parasite are so severe that 
careful inspection of the pork supplies in this respect is of great import- 
ance. 

The presence of trichinie cannot be determined in the living animal un- 
less a bit of muscle be removed from the under part of the tongue and exam- 
ined microscopically. In human beings affected with trichinosis, the blood 
has been found to contain a greatly increased proportion of large, coarsely 
granulated, eosinophile cells ; but as yet no application of this test has been 
made to swine. Within the muscles of animals affected with this parasite 
may be seen tiny, opaque, ovoid cysts, having a length of about .015 inch 
and a breadth of .006 inch, within which are coiled very small worms, 
only to be detected with the microscope. These bodies represent the em- 
bryonic stage of the parasite ; when swallowed, the enveloping cyst wall is 
digested and the embryo liberated. The latter develops in the intestinal 
canal and reaches maturity in five or six days. The mature worm is white 
and about the thickness of a hair. The female at once begins to procre- 
ate, giving off" from a thousand to fifteen hundred embryos at a brood ; 
these passing into the system by way of the lympliatics. After penetrat- 
ing the muscular fibrillae they become encysted, the cyst wall becoming 
thickened and finally undergoing calcification; in, which condition they 
appear as opaque, whitish, lens-shaped bodies. Trichinae are observed in 
the flesh of hogs, cats and rats; less frequently in certain other animals. 
The rat and cat are believed frequently to play a part as intermediate 
hosts in its occurrence in swine. 



216 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

To the naked eye, pork infected with trichinae usually presents nothing 
characteristic. In certain cases in which the cysts have undergone calcifi- 
cation they may appear as white dots, and if very numerous may give rise 
to a distinct grating sensation under the knife. For the microscopical ex- 
amination thin strips of muscle should preferably be cut from the tongue, 
diaphragm, muscles of the jaw and larynx, or the intercostal muscles, since 
these parts are the ones most liable to harbor the parasite. These strips 
are pressed firmly between two glass slides and then examined under a 
magnifying power of forty to sixty diameters. If the meat is very fat it 
may be treated first with ether or benzine. The muscle may be cleared 
and the cysts rendered more prominent by immersing the bit of muscle in 
a solution of weak potassa, one to eight, for- a few minutes ; but if left in 




FIG. 74. 1, Trichinae In muscle ; 2, embryo trichinae ; 3, encysted trichinae ; 4, cyst containing seven tri- 
chinae ; 5, trichina In fatty tissue ; 6, trichina removed from cyst. (After Laveran.) 

too long the trichinae are destroyed by the alkali. Calcified trichinae may 
be rendered transparent by the addition of a drop or so of diluted acetic 
or hydrochloric acid, when the worm is distinctly seen. Trichinae are not 
destroyed by the ordinary process of smoking meat ; but hot smoking, ac- 
cording to Leuckart, does destroy them. Pickling in strong brine is said 
by Stiles to kill them in about four months, but neither freezing nor the 
complete decomposition of the meat destroys their vitality. They are 
readily killed by exposure for a few minutes to a temperature capable of 
coagulating albumin (158 F. ); but when the interior of a piece of pork 
still retains the fresh red color of uncooked meat, it may be assumed that 
a temperature sufficiently high to destroy this parasite has not been at- 
tained. It is by no means easy to raise the temperature in the interior of 
a large ham sufficiently to destroy with certainty the contained trichina?, 
and constant boiling for several hours should invariably be required. 



THE RATION. 217 

It is scarcely necessary to say that where the presence of trichina can 
be positively demonstrated the affected meat should be promptly con- 
demned. 

The so-called Psorospermia, or Rainey's capsules, must not be mistaken 
for trichinae, nor indeed with care is error possible. These are small, al- 
most transparent bodies, found in the flesh of oxen, sheep and pigs. They 
are oval or spindle-shaped, or sometimes one end is pointed and the other 
rounded, or they are kidney-shaped The investing membrane exhibits 
delicate markings, caused by a linear arrangement of minute, hair-like 
fibres which are stated to increase in size as the parasite gets older. They 
are sometimes pointed, and the appearance under a high power (one thou- 
sand diameters) is as if the investment consisted of very delicate, transpar- 
ent, conical hairs, terminating in a pointed process. The contents of the 
cysts consist of granular matter, the granules or particles of which, when 
mature, are oval and adhere together so as to form indistinct divisions of 
the entire mass. The length varies from one three-hundredth to one-fourth 
of an inch. They are usually narrow; they lie within the sarcolemma, 
and appear often not to irritate the muscle. In human beings these 
bodies are not known to produce any ill effects, but their existence should 
be remembered in searching for trichinae. 

Bacon. In the military service the flesh of swine is ordinarily used 
in the form of bacon or salt pork. The composition of the former, 'as or- 
dinarily issued to troops, is as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fat, per cent. 


Fuel value per pound. Calorie*. 


16.8 


9.2 


61.8 


2,606 



For field use no meat can take the place of bacon. It is readily trans- 
ported, prepared and digested; is appetizing when properly cooked, and 
possesses a high calorific value in a small bulk. It is much more accept- 
able than pork, but contains too high a proportion of fats to render its fre- 
quent issue desirable in hot climates. For such stations, bacon consisting 
of almost clear fat should not be issued, but a fair proportion of lean should 
be required. As a general rule, the further north the station the greater 
the proportion of fat which may be allowed. Discrimination should be 
used by the Subsistence Department in this respect. When very fat 
the loss in cooking is great ; the soldier when frying his bacon in his in- 
dividual mess-tin rarely securing the full benefit of the melted fat. Many 
soldiers prefer to fry their bacon to a crisp, rejecting the grease in which 
case only a relatively small proportion of its nutritive substance is utilized. 
In general, the weight of the sides determines the proportion of fat, and 
sides weighing from twenty-five to fifty pounds are preferable. 

The wastage of bacon under natural heat is often considerable, amount- 
ing at times to as much as twenty or twenty-five per cent. When slop- 
fed and summer-cured, bacon is said to waste much more rapidly than 
when corn-fed or winter-cured. Notwithstanding this waste under heat, 
properly selected bacon should be generally substituted for salt pork at 
southern posts. Bacon is preferably stored in the crates in whicli it is 



218 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



issued. It has been stored in bins, packed with bulk salt in alternate 
layers, but the salt appears to cause the separation of the fatty portion 
from the rind. At southern posts, where bacon becomes- very soft and 
liquescent, it is best packed in charcoal, after wrapping in clean cotton 
cloths. 

Poorly cured bacon is soft and watery and will not keep. When cut 
into, moisture appears in the incision. The only remedy for this condition 
is a second smoking. When the fat of bacon if* yellow and the taste is 
strong, the meat is rusty or tainted. When the lean shows brownish or 
black spots it is not good. Bacon from stag hogs or those fed on mash 
may have a yellowish appearance and still be tit for use. 

The Dermestes lardarius or bacon-bug is very destructive to bacon and 
all other kinds of dried meat. It is a rapid breeder, and a generation may 
be developed in six weeks. This insect deposits its eggs on bacon or other 
dried meats; the larvse being hatched from these and at once beginning 
their attacks on the flesh. When full-fed they change into the chrysalid 
state and from that into the beetle ; the latter being about one-third of an 






FIG. 78. Dermestes lardarius : o, larva ; 7>, pupa ; c, adult beetle all enlarged. 

inch long and of a dusky-brown color, except the upper half of the wing 
cases, which are of a whitish or ashen color. These insects, when in the 
larval and chrysalid states, are so concealed in the meat that they cannot 
be removed from it but upon attaining the beetle state they may be readily 
removed and destroyed. Affected portions of bacon should be cut away. 
Where a commissary store-room is overrun with these insects, the room 
should be cleared out as far as practicable, and sprayed with benzine or 
subjected to strong fumes of bisulphide of carbon. The latter method is 
much recommended, as the disagreeable odor of this substance soon disap- 
pears. 

Salt Pork. The chemical composition of salt pork, as issued, is in 
general as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fat, per cent. 


Fuel value per pound. Calories. 


16.2 


16.2 


' 66.2 


2,788 



THE RATION. 219 

Salt pork is by no means a popular component of the ration. It is 
rarely used in garrison except when cooked as an adjunct to beans or vege- 
tables, and in the field it is entirely supplanted by bacon. So many and 
so general were the complaints made, a decade ago, against salt i>ork as a 
food for the soldier, particularly from southern stations, that the matter 
received special consideration in the report of the surgeon general for 
1889, and strong evidence was adduced against its further issue to troops. 
It was shown not to be relished by the men and to be rarely used, and 
was reported as being "repulsive to taste and digestion." Formerly it 
formed three-twentieths of the meat ration; and in the department of 
Texas it was reported by the commanding general that, for the year 1885, 
one-half the issue of pork was turned back to the commissar}- and its 
money value expended for other foods, it thus being utilized merely as a 
means of exchange. This dislike of pork, however, was not shared by the 
colored troops, and in a sanitary report from Fort Duncan, Texas, in 1880, 
it was stated that three colored companies, with an aggregate strength of 
one hundred and forty-one, saved only three hundred and fifty-seven 
pounds of pork and one of these companies made no saving in this re- 
spect ; while in a company of white troops at the same post, with an aver- 
age strength of fifty -eight men, no less than three thousand pounds were 
saved during the same period. In the entire department of Texas it was 
found that the white troops saved and sold proportionately twice as much 
pork as did the negro soldiers. It would undoubtedly be of advantage if 
pork were replaced in the ration by an allowance of cheese, leaving the 
small amount of pork which might be desired for cooking purposes to be 
purchased from the commissary as required. 

Corn-fed pork is the best quality of pork found in the general market 
It can be distinguished from mash, slop or swill-fed pork by its pearly 
appearance, and by its retaining the dent of the finger on pressure. Mash- 
fed pork has a blue tinge, is spongy and is elastic 1 to the touch. Winter- 
killed pork is much better than pork killed in warm weather. If it freezes 
before thoroughly cured, however, it will spoil when thawed out; as freez- 
ing suspends the pickling process. Pork should be subject to frequent 
inspection. If the meat is a little turned it may at times be saved by 
rubbing in salt and rebrining. The barrels should be kept on the side, 
rolled at weekly intervals and carefully protected from the sun. Pork is 
never safe if there is not a considerable quantity of undissolved salt in the 
barrel ; and the loss of brine by evaporation must be promptly made good. 
If brine be added it should be of sufficient density to float an egg. 

Horse Meat. The flesh of the horse, though not employed for the 
subsistence of troops in time of peace, is capable of rendering excellent ser- 
vice during campaign. It was much used by the French during the sieges of 
Metz and Paris in the Franco-Prussian War, was lately employed during 
the Anglo-Boer War, and, together with mule meat, has not infrequently 
been of necessity utilized by our own troops in exj>editions against hostile 
Indians. Horse meat is palatable and wholesome, and where the meat 
ration is at all insufficient the flesh of animals killed in action should cer- 
tainly be utilized as food. The flesh of the horse is said to contain about 
ten per cent, more nitrogen than good beef; a quality which should make 
it especially valuable in connection with the shortage of food and the 



220 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

arduous labors incident to hard fighting. Horse meat is now regarded as 
a staple article of diet among the poorer classes of Europe, Laveran stating 
that in 1892 no less than twenty thousand horses were slaughtered for 
food in Paris alone ; and in the western part of our own country it is said 
that several companies are engaged in canning the flesh of the half -wild 
horses of the plains for European consumption. In view of its common 
use abroad it has recently been proposed, from motives of economy, to in- 
clude horse flesh in the meat ration of several foreign armies. Its issue in 
our own service, however, would never be countenanced except as a meas- 
ure of urgent necessity. 

Horse meat can be detected by the horse having eighteen pairs of ribs, 
while the ox has but thirteen pairs ; the tongue of the horse is smooth at 
the tip and base of blade, while the tongue of the ox is rough. Ordinarily, 
however, a fore-quarter with more than the number of ribs possessed by 
the ox would not be presented ; hence the points to be chiefly relied upon 
are the darker color and coarser fibre of the flesh of the horse, the yellow, 
oily fat, the greater size of the bones and their oily marrow, the peculiar 
odor and somewhat unpleasant taste of the fat. The flesh of the horse ap- 
pears to be less liable to transmit disease than either pork or bacon, since 
this animal is not liable to trichinosis, is relatively insusceptible to tuber- 
culosis and is not known to contain parasites which can be transmitted to 
man. The horse is frequently affected with glanders, but the flesh of 
glandered animals does not appear necessarily to produce injurious effects, 
if thoroughly cooked, when eaten as food. Viry quotes an instance in which 
three hundred glandered horses were eaten without injury; and in 1870, 
during the siege of Paris, large quantities of flesh from horses with farcy 
and glanders were eaten without producing ill effects. There can be no 
doubt that glandered. flesh, however, if insufficiently cooked, is capable of 
transmitting this disease to the consumer. 

Slaughter-Houses . In addition to the examination of the animal 
from which the meat is derived, and of the meat itself, it may frequently 
devolve upon the sanitary officer to supervise the method of slaughtering 
and cutting up of the carcass, and insure that all the steps are carried out 
in a cleanly manner and that the meat is not unnecessarily contaminated 
by carelessness or filthy surroundings. Slaughter-houses are naturally cen- 
tres of disease, and the more unsanitary the condition of the premises the 
more dangerous they become to health. It not infrequently happens that 
little care is bestowed upon the policing of such an establishment and its 
vicinity, which, in the nature of things, are befouled with urine, droppings, 
blood and decomposing offal. This is a matter requiring the constant at- 
tention of the supervising officer, and every effort should be made to pro- 
mote cleanliness and remove unsanitary conditions. Frequently slaughter- 
houses are located on the banks of streams, which, lower in their course, 
are sources of water supply ; and in many instances the offal is thrown 
out to be eaten by hogs kept for the purpose, or by rats and prowling 
dogs. This practice is extremely dangerous, for even if the abattoir be 
small the number of animals slaughtered therein in the course of a year 
may be considerable. Among the hogs slaughtered, a certain proportion 
are sure to be affected with trichinosis, and when the offal of a trichinous 
hog is fed to swine the latter cannot escape infection with trichinae. But 



THE RATION. 221 

this is not all; for rats act as transmitters of trichina? to hogs, and slaugh- 
ter-houses are usually overrun with these vermin. Where these feed on 
the offal of trichinous animals they likewise acquire trichinosis ; Stiles find- 
ing fifty-five per cent, of rats killed in slaughter-houses, meat shops and 
packing-houses to be so diseased. The affected rats, after death, are them- 
selves not infrequently eaten by hogs and further, if the abattoir be 
burned or abandoned, they scatter in all directions for the purpose of ob- 
taining food and thus greatly increase the chances of the dissemination of 
the disease among swine kept in the vicinity. Hence the great necessity 
for keeping down the rats by the use of traps, cats, ferrets and poison. 

Tuberculosis is also transmitted by flesh, and swine fed on the offal of 
tuberculous animals themselves become affected, and may, when slaugh- 
tered, give rise to the disease in man. Dogs also are attracted to slaugh- 
ter-houses ; and through eating the discarded organs the)- infect themselves 
with several kinds of parasites, among them the echinococcus disease, the 
thin-neck bladder worm, the gid bladder worm and the tongue worm. 
The first named parasite is extremely dangerous to man the latter affect 
animals. The dog, after eating flesh containing jiarasites, proves a con- 
genial host for the development of the mature tapeworms, and naturally 
deposits the eggs, with the excreta, in all directions and under conditions 
which favor their entrance by the medium of water and herbage into hosts 
suitable for their development. It is obvious that dogs should be pre- 
vented from having access to abattoirs or their animal refuse. 

It is needless to enumerate all the diseases which might centre at a 
slaughter-house; but anthrax, tuberculosis, hog cholera and swine plague 
may be mentioned. As the yards and buildings will often harbor the 
specific organisms of these and other diseases, it should be a rule that an 
animal once admitted to a slaughter-house should not leave it alive. The 
flesh of diseased animals should be burned, not buried; since in such a 
case the carcasses may become food for dogs, rats and burrowing animals. 
Further, on Indian reservations or in the tropics, they may be subse- 
quently disinterred and used as food by the natives. 

In construction, slaughter-houses should be solidly built, preferably of 
brick or stone, and should have cemented floors throughout. They should 
be well drained and scrupulously maintained in a good sanitary condition. 
In the transportation of meat the strictest cleanliness of hands and clothing 
should be required of those in charge of its conveyance from place to place, 
and of the wrappers, receptacles or vehicles in which it is so conveyed. 
During transportation to the place of issue the meat should be well exposed 
to air ; under no circumstances should it be wrapped in rubber sheeting, as 
is sometimes done, but the air should have access to it at all times. When 
kept in store, without refrigeration, the meat should be hung up in as cool 
a place as possible, the pieces being not too close to the wall or to each 
other, well protected from dust, sun and flies, and, if possible, in a free 
current of air. 

PRESERVATION OF MEAT. 

The necessities of the military service obviously require that meat 
should frequently be consumed at considerable distances from the places of 
production and slaughter; and hence its preservation, by physical and 



222 THEOEY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

chemical means, has been an object of constant study on the part of those 
who have the subsistence of troops at heart. The artificial refrigeration of 
meat, a process only of comparatively recent development, has done much 
toward satisfactorily solving this vexed problem. The following methods 
have been employed for the preservation of meat. 

Method of Slaughter. It has been demonstrated that meat killed in 
the Jewish manner will keep one or two days longer in summer than meat 
killed the ordinary way, since the more thoroughly the blood is removed 
the better the meat keeps. In the Jewish or " kosher " method the animal 
is hauled up by the hind legs and the throat is rapidly cut without pre- 
vious stunning; the vessels retain their contractility and convulsions 
take place, which still further help to squeeze all blood from the body. 
If the animal is first stunned the bleeding is imperfect and considerable 
blood is left in the hind-quarters. The objection to this method of kill- 
ing is the unnecessary cruelty attaching to it. The same result is reached 
in a new process by which the keeping qualities of the meat are said to be 
markedly enhanced. In this method, after previous stunning and bleed- 
ing, the large blood-vessels are washed out with a weak, sterilized salt 
solution ; the irrigation being continued for some minutes until the escap- 
ing fluid is only faintly colored. The animal is hung up by the hind legs 
during the operation, and the irrigating trocars are plunged into the 
femoral arteries. Where refrigeration is not available, and it is desired to 
keep meat several days during warm weather, this method of preservation 
has much to commend it, being simple of execution and entirely avoiding 
the use of chemical preservatives. 

Refrigerated and Frozen Meat. The preservation of meat by cold, 
and its transportation in the chilled or frozen state over long distances to 
the point of issue, is now a common procedure in the military service. 
In France, Germany and other countries, military cold-storage establish- 
ments, fully provisioned against emergency, are maintained at strategic 
points from which distribution can be readily accomplished. Viry states 
that one-fifth of all the cold-storage establishments in Germany are exclu- 
sively employed in the military service. In the United States army no 
need for such establishments has existed, through the comparatively small 
numbers of the regular army, its dissemination in small garrisons over a 
wide area, the readiness with which supplies could be obtained by reason 
of excellent transportation facilities, the existence of large, centrally located 
packing-houses belonging to private corporations, and finally, the geograph- 
ical situation of this country, through which invasion by foreign forces is 
rendered impossible. In the tropical possessions, however, no such condi- 
tions prevail, and in Cuba, Porto Rico and the Philippines the establish- 
ment of cold-storage facilities has been found essential. In the Philip- 
pines the troops were at first supplied direct from the ships bringing meat 
from the United States and Australia, but recently a refrigerating 'plant 
has been established at Manila, having a capacity of five thousand beeves, 
eight thousand sheep and other perishable articles in like proportion. 

As delivered to troops, refrigerated beef is almost invariably of excellent 
quality and in prime condition. Little difficulty has been experienced in 
preserving the meat until required for use, although in several instances 
in our service the refrigerating apparatus on board transports has broken 



THE RATION. 223 

down during the voyage and all perishable articles lost in consequence. 
Refrigerated beef, as shipped to troops in the tropics, is far superior to 
native grown meat, which is usually deficient in fat and is tough and 
stringy from the fact that it must be used a few hours after killing to pre- 
vent spoiling, even though rigor mortis be still present. Meat should be 
refrigerated rather than frozen if it is to be issued at no great distance from 
the point of refrigeration. Where transportation over considerable distances 
is required for the supply of troops, actual congelation becomes advisable 
in the prevention of putrefaction. As an additional precaution against 
contamination and spoiling, the quarters should Ije sewed in clean, steril- 
ized cotton cloths before shipping. Refrigerated beef differs slightly in 
appearance from fresh, having a dead color and lacking the lustre charac- 
teristic of good fresh meat. The lean is somewhat pale in hue and more 
of a brick-red color than the bright, rich red of recently killed beef. The 
fat is pale pink instead of white, due to the juice of the lean soaking into 
the fat. A general pinkish tinge extends over the whole of the carcass 
and the gristle of the joints is pinkish instead of bluish in color. The 
shanks are bruised and discolored owing to the method of hanging up the 
quarters. Sometimes the shanks are much lacerated, and such injured 
portions, besides being objectionable in appearance, readily become tainted. 
The carcass itself is cold to the touch, stiff and moist. On removing the 
cloth in which the quarter is wrapped for transportation a slightly unpleas- 
ant odor is sometimes discernible; but care should be taken not to reject 
such meat without further examination, since the smell may be merely a 
surface one caused by the cloth. When this is removed the quarters 
should invariably be cut into, when if any taint exists it will be readily 
detected. 

Meat in the frozen state is readily recognized. In the thawed or semi- 
thawed condition the outside has a wet, water-logged appearance, and there 
is considerable oozing and dripping of a watery liquid from the carcass. 
Should it have been kept so long a time as to have lost its outward moist- 
ure it can be recognized by a generally dull, dirty appearance, and on a 
fresh section being made the watery condition is at once apparent. This 
dripping and infiltration is due to the rupture of the cells by freezing and 
the subsequent escape of their liquid contents, to the no slight deterioration 
of quality. The flesh has a uniform pink appearance, owing to diffusion 
of the coloring matter in the blood. The fat, however, is unstained and 
is of,, a tallowy white color. The outside of the meat is dull and lacking 
in lustre. 

It is said that in the Philippines frozen quarters of beef have been 
transported to troops on the firing line fifty miles from the cold-storage 
establishment, and have been kept free from taint for as much as three 
days without further refrigeration, even in a tropical temperature. 

Frozen beef is not accepted in the British army, although frozen mut- 
ton is regarded as satisfactory. The reason for this discrimination is that 
the carcasses of sheep are frozen whole, while beef is cut into a consider- 
able number of parts, and on thawing the loss of nutritive matter from the 
flowing of liquid from the cut surfaces is much greater. Mutton being 
naturally drier than beef it is said to suffer less deterioration in the freez- 
ing process. The committee appointed to investigate the dietary of the 



224 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

British soldier recommended that when frozen meat is issued an extra 
allowance of ten per cent should be added " on account of the waste that 
occurs in the process of cooking it. " Since frozen meat is now much used 
in our service it would seem as if this matter deserved attention. 

Frozen meat, after thawing, undergoes decomposition much more read- 
ily than refrigerated meat, through its infiltration with serous fluid. To 
the mechanical disorganization of the tissues from rupture of the muscle 
cells is thus added the diffusion through the meat of a fluid which fur- 
nishes an admirable culture medium for the development of the micro- 
organisms of putrefaction. In the inspection of frozen or refrigerated meat 
it should be cut through in the thickest part, since when the meat is 
frozen while still warm, the outside forms a hard protective casing behind 
which putrefaction may be possible. It has recently been stated in a sani- 
tary journal that meat long kept in cold storage undergoes a deterioration 
of intangible character. Such meat is said ultimately to lose in flavor and 
be poorly assimilated. It is also stated that those who eat meat long pre- 
served in cold storage are particularly prone to diarrhoea. The moral of 
this is to avoid keeping meat in cold storage any great length of time, 
and to make contracts for small but frequent consignments of the freshly 
killed article. 

The apparatus for the production and maintenance of artificial refriger- 
ation, at permanent posts, is discussed in a subsequent section. To in- 
sure the better keeping of meat in the field, an excavated cellar may be 
made in connection with the camp kitchen, roofed with logs, brush, leaves 
and a heavy covering of earth, and having a passageway communicating 
with a small tent. Excellent surface drainage must be provided for the 
removal of storm water ; while, if the ground water be high, subsoil drain- 
age by trenches somewhat deeper than the cellar, and carried to a lower 
level, should be instituted. These trenches should be partially filled with 
large stones, loosely placed ; or poles be laid horizontally to carry off the 
water. Where ice is available in the field, excellent ice chests may be 
made of packing boxes sunk in the ground one inside the other, and hav- 
ing holes bored in the bottom to allow the escape of water. A tight lid 
is provided for each box, and the whole shielded from the sun. In garri- 
son, a more elaborate commercial form of refrigerator will usually be em- 
ployed. These should be well lined with zinc throughout. Some refrig- 
erators now supplied by the Quartermaster's Department are wooden 
throughout, absorb odors and organic matter and are incapable of proper 
cleansing. The sanitary condition of such refrigerators soon becomes very 
bad, and the slight additional cost of better models should not be allowed 
to stand in the way of their issue. 

Preservation by Heat. Directly opposed to the method of refriger- 
ation is one consisting in exposing the meat to a high temperature for a 
few minutes ; thus destroying the bacteria and coagulating the albumen in 
the surface layers and hermetically sealing the interior. This process is 
obviously not applicable except on a small scale, and is of value for limited 
periods only. In hot weather, in the absence of ice, the use of this method 
of preservation will frequently be temporarily of advantage to troops in the 
field. 

Desiccation. Drying or "jerking " meat in the open air is a common 



THE RATION. 225 

method of preservation among the Indians and frontiersmen of the west 
where the dry air prevents putrefaction. "Jerked" meat has not been 
infrequently employed by United States troops during campaign against 
hostile Indians, the flesh of the game killed while on consign bein- often 
preserved for future use in this manner. It appears to have given satis- 
faction, and is very palatable when made up in soup or stews. It is ob- 
vious that this method of preparation is possible only under suitable at- 
mospheric conditions. This process is artificially imitated in the dried 
beef of commerce; but the latter is also treated with salt and is too strong- 
ly impregnated with saline material to be of utility for the military service. 
Pemmican dried meat pounded to a powder and mixed with fat, sugar and 
raisins is an excellent food, formerly much used in the far Northwest. It 
was employed in the military exploring expedition in the Arctic led by 
Greeley, and has also been used by military exploring expeditions in Alas- 
ka. Its composition, concentration, keeping qualities and portability give 
it a high place among the preserved meats. 

Smoking. This is a method of preservation which is usually employed 
as in the preparation of bacon hi connection with salting and drying. 
The best woods for smoking are hickory and rock maple, the preservation 
being due to the absorption of pyroligueous acid and creosote from the 
smoke generated in the slow combustion of the wood fuel 

Canning. Next to refrigeration, the canning of meat is pre-eminent- 
ly the best method of its preservation ; but it may be laid down as a gen- 
eral rule that preserved meat should be regarded purely as a variety of diet 
and used rarely. For the military service, the compactness, portability 
and keeping qualities of canned meat render it of ej>ecial value. 

Canned fresh beef, known as "roast" beef, has long been used success- 
fully as a component of the United States army travel ration, but was sub- 
jected to much unfavorable criticism when used by troops in Cuba and 
Porto Rico during the war with Spain. This criticism, however, was due 
not so much to the undesirable character of the food itself as to the fact 
that it was, from force of circumstances, usually eaten direct from the can, 
and its issue was continued for so long a period that the very monotony 
of the diet produced a marked repugnance to this meat on the part of 
troops. Where issued only occasionally, and where proper facilities for 
making it into hash or stews are furnished, canned meat may be regarded 
as an acceptable article of food for troops. It is much used and liked in 
foreign armies notably the French army in which stewing is the usual 
method of preparing the meat ration. It is quite unsuited for use when 
eaten direct from the tin, since the meat is comparatively tasteless and 
stringy and the fat is collected in an unappetizing cake at the top of the 
can. Canned beef contains no bone a great saving to the soldier and 
much of the water and fat is removed by the processes to which it is sub- 
jected. Its fuel value is fully equal to fresh beef, pound for pound, while 
the proportion of nitrogenous matter is much greater. It should, therefore, 
prove satisfactory temporarily at least for nutritive purposes in the field ; 
for which use its keeping qualities, and the fact that it may in emergency 
be eaten without cooking, render it particularly applicable. The influence 
of canning on the composition of beef is shown by the following analysis, 
hitherto unpublished, macfe by Bigelow for the Department of Agriculture, 
16 



226 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



on three hundred and fifty-eight pounds of fresh beef which was converted 
under his observation into two hundred and thirty -five pounds of canned 
beef. 





Fresh beef, 
weight and 
composition in 
Pounds 
Avoirdupois. 


Extracted 
by boiling. 
Pounds 
Avoirdupois. 


Added in 
canning. 
Pounds 
Avoirdupois. 


Calculated 
composition of 
canned meat. 
Pounds 
Avoirdupois. 


Composition of 
resulting 
canned meat, as 
determined 
by analysis. 
Pounds 
Avoirdupois. 


Water 


254.8 


122.1 


14.1 




146.8 


Proteids, total 


59.3 


0.1 


.1 


59.3 


58.5 


" coagulated. 
" globulins . . 
Proteoses } 
Peptones > 


49.7 
4.9 

4.7 


.1 


1.6 


54.6 
4.6 


52.3 
6.2 


Gelatin ) 
Meat bases 


3.9 


.7 




3.1 


2.7 


Fat 


35.4 


12.2 






23.2 


Ash 


3.4 


.7 


.2 


2.9 


2.1 


Sodium chloride 


.1 


.1 


.2 




.4 


Undetermined 


1.2 








1.7 














Totals 


358.0 








235.0 















The chemical composition of canned roast and boiled beef, as given by 
Atwater and Bryant, is as follows : 





Water, 
per cent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Fat, 
percent. 


Fuel value per 
pound. Calories. 


Canned roast beef 


58.9 


25.9 


14.8 


1 105 




51.8 


25.5 


22.5 


1,425 













It is readily seen from the above tables that the popular statement 
that the " good " is all removed from canned beef is quite without founda- 
tion in fact; the latter contains, weight for weight, a much greater amount 
of nitrogenous material, while the proportion of fat in the fresh and canned 
meat is almost exactly the same although there is an actual loss, in this 
respect, of about one-third. It is true that a certain proportion of the ex- 
tractives, which give flavor to the meat, are unavoidably removed in boil- 
ing, but of these, according to analyses made by the Department of Agri- 
culture, not more than one-sixth to one-third, varying with the special 
method of processing, is extracted in canning. These substances, more- 
over, have no positive nutritive value but may be regarded merely as 
stimulants. Of the total proteid in canned beef, it is stated by Notter 
and Firth that not more than ten per cent, was found by them to be indi- 
gestible. The meat used for canning is ordinarily of good quality, although 
the less valuable portions of the animal, as the chuck and rib trimmings, 
are commonly utilized for this purpose. It is claimed, however, that par- 
tially spoiled meat is sometimes used for this purpose by unscrupulous 
dealers. In the inquiry after the war with Spam, one officer testified to 
finding dead maggots in a can on opening it. 

On its preparation, the beef is first placed in water and maintained at 
a temperature of 95 C. until well cooked. It Is then removed, trimmed 



THE RATION. 227 

and placed in cans, a little gelatin being added to bind the meat together. 
The cans are then sealed and either submerged in boiling brine or placed 
in super-heated steam at 125 C. The contained steam is allowed to es- 
cape through a puncture made in the cap of the can, which is immediately 
afterward closed with solder. 

The meat being sealed up while hot, any portion of the enclosed spece 
is a partial vacuum; consequently a good tin of meat will almost invari- 
ably present a concave appearance on its external surfaces through the 

pressure of the atmosphere. When a tin is bulged it is sure to be bad 

unless it be frozen and should be rejected. The bulging is due to the gen- 
eration of gas iii the process of decomposition of the meat inside. The 
ends of sucli cans, if pressed, give out a rattling sound and resume their 
convex shape on removal of the pressure. Freezing causes a bulging of 
the ends of cans without injuring their contents. The ends, after the con- 
tents of the can have been thawed, return to their former shape; but a 
number of freezings and thawings may so change the contents of the tin 
that the ends will not, on removal of pressure, remain in their original 
shape. 

The process of canning articles of food involves the making and solder- 
ing up of two punctured holes in the top of each can, and these have no 
bad significance. The presence, however, of three such holes is an evi- 
dence that the can had been imperfectly processed, and that to remedy this 
defect it was re-heated, the gas of fermentation allowed to escape, and the 
hole punctured for this purpose again sealed up. The contents of re-heated 
cans are more likely to be of inferior quality, or subsequently to undergo 
putrefactive changes, than cans properly processed in the first instance. 
Owing to the objections to re-heated cans, the packers are careful to make 
the third puncture as inconspicuous as possible; and frequently endeavor 
to conceal it entirely by making it on the side of the can, near the top, 
and pasting the label over it. By running the finger abound the rim of a 
can it is easily determined whether a third hole has been made, by the 
presence or absence of a lump of solder. Sometimes newly packed cans 
are so much swollen that re-heating is not sufficient. In such cases the 
cans are opened, the contents sorted over and the sound parts packed into 
cans, which are then subjected to the same process as in the original can- 
ning. Re-processed cans of this character have the same appearance as 
regularly packed cans, and their defective quality can be determined gnly 
by opening and examining their contents, which will present an over- 
cooked appearance. First-class canned goods have both the name of the 
factory and that of the wholesale house through which they are sold upon 
their labels. Doubtful goods have a fictitious factory name, and no deal- 
er's name. These are easily avoided in peace but under the pressure of 
war, supplies of this character are apt to deteriorate and must be critically 
, watched. 

Canned meats, when properly stored, should theoretically retain their 
good qualities indefinitely in any climate. A certain gradual deterioration 
appears, however, to occur, and Morache states that in cans of meat a 
.change, similar to the formation of adipocere, sometimes occurs^. \ 
states that putrefactive changes may take place without the formation of 
any gases. He recommends that canned v meat having a fishy or 



228 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

tive odor, in which the fat is liquefied or has lost its transparency, or 
when the meat is soft or discolored, should be rejected. He states that 
these conditions may occur in canned meats presenting no outward signs 
of bad quality, and remarks that a considerable number of cases of illness 
among the French troops has demonstrated the danger of using meat of this 
diameter. 

Coustan mentions ten severe outbreaks of ptomaine poisoning, occur- 
ring from the use of canned meats, as having been noted in the French 
army. Barker has recently observed severe poisoning in twenty-four per- 
sons following the use of canned beef. He states that this meat presented 
no unusual appearance other than that it was less firm than is ordinarily 
the case, and the jelly was slightly oily. The meat had no odor, and its 
taste was not unpleasant except to a single individual of those who par- 
took of it. Meat contained in pierced tins will, of course, putrefy very 
quickly, and therefore all cans showing holes made by nails, rust, crush- 
ing or other means should be rejected. In an inspection recently made in 
Cuba, many thousand cans of meat, which had been carried in the holds 
of transports and had come into contact with salt water, were found to 
have rusted through and their contents undergone decomposition. It is 
important that cans of meat should not be opened except as required for 
immediate use, since canned meat appears to undergo putrefactive changes 
more quickly than fresh meat. 

The quality of canned roast or boiled beef is determined by its appear- 
ance, which should be bright, lively and well colored ; by its flavor, which 
should be pleasant, and by its freedom from gristle, sinew and fascia. A 
due proportion of fat should be present. This is usually collected with the 
gelatin at the top of the can. Packers endeavor to prevent the solidification 
of this fat in cakes, during the process of cooling, by frequent turning of 
the cans but their efforts are only partially successful. Canned beef con- 
tains ordinarily from fifty to sixty per cent, of moisture. The transporta- 
tion of this amount of innutritions matter in the field ration is certainly 
undesirable, but it is admitted by the canners that the meat is string}-, 
uninviting and flavorless unless this proportion of water be allowed to 
remain. 

It is not disputed that canned food frequently contains tin, which has 
been dissolved from the tin plate by the action of acids or other constitu- 
ents of the food, or which have been introduced through the careless use 
of stannous chloride, a constituent of some of the soldering fluids used in 
sealing cans. But the quantity of tin is usually very small, varying from 
a few hundredths of a grain to one grain per pound rarely approaching, 
however, the higher figure. These amounts are not likely to give rise to 
acute poisoning. Usually canned fruits and vegetables, from their con- 
tamed acids, are more liable to dissolve tin than is meat so preserved. 
Blyth states that he found in some samples of canned fruit as much as 
14.3 grains of stannous chloride per pound, and that the average amount 
of all examined was 5.2 grains per pound. In some cases the juice had a 
metallic taste. With such quantities of tin, in a form easily absorbed 
into the system, the possibility of acute poisoning must be admitted. But 
tin poisoning, from the use of canned foods, is not greatly to be feared. A 
quantity of tin salt sufficient to cause acute poisoning would probably be 



THE RATION. 229 

recognised by the taste, and food so contaminated would be rejected as un- 
palatable. Used in the manner in which canned food should be employed 
in the military service, the possibility of chronic tin poisoning should also 
not exist. In speaking of a number of cans of beef examined by him for 
the Department of Agriculture, Wiley remarks as follows : 

"On opening the cans it was found in many instances that the tins on 
the inside were discolored, and it was first considered that actual erosion 
had taken place. A careful microscopic examination of the surface, how- 
ever, showed that this assumption was an error. In no case was the sur- 
face of the tin found to be eroded, and the discolorations were due doubtless 
to the natural effect of the meats upon the tin surface." In general, the 
tin used in making cans should be of the best quality and the solder should 
be carefully applied to the outside of the cans only, so as to prevent it from 
coming into contact with the contents. 

It is important that animals to be used for canning purposes should be 
inspected on the hoof, since if the animal is sick and the flesh contains 
bacteria or toxines, the heat of processing may not destroy the toxines or 
spores of the bacteria even though the micro-organisms themselves do not 
survive. 

Canned corned beef is prepared in almost exactly the same manner as 
canned roast or boiled meat, the flesh having previously kin in pickle for 
fifteen to twenty days. It is the usual meat component of the travel ra- 
tion, for which purpose it has given entire satisfaction. Its percentage 
chemical composition is as follows : 





Water, 

per cent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Fat, 
per cent. 


Fuel valu>- per 
pound. Culm-left. 


Canned corned beef 


51.8 


263 


18 7 


1 2*0 













Canned corned beef is very salty and soon becomes distasteful to troops. 
Its employment, except for very brief periods only, should be condemned. 
Meat is sometimes preserved in tin cases by j>artly excluding air and 
destroying the oxygen of the remaining part with sodium sulphide. In 
another process the air is removed from the packed cans and nitrogen, 
with a little sulphur dioxide, substituted. 

Salting. Corning is treating raw l>eef or pork to a pickle, usually 
composed in the proportion of two gallons of water, four pounds of salt, one 
and one-half pounds of brown sugar, one and one-half ounces of saltpetre 
and one-half ounce of saleratus. The meat, cut into pieces of about eight 
pounds each, is put in the brine under a weight. After an immersion of 
eight or ten days it is ready for use. If the meat is pickled directly from 
the block, the bloody brine should be renewed every three or four days 
until all the blood has soaked out. In corned beef the extractives are in 
great part removed by the brine, while the albumen is hardened anil the 
meat thus rendered tough and insipid. The process of curing appears 
somewhat to impair digestibility and the meat is much too salty for contin- 
ued use. In the expedition to Porto Rico, when a deficiency of transpor- 
tation rendered it necessary to use canned corned beef for a number of 
days, the men were said to have suffered greatly from thirst and to have 



230 THEOKY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

been affected with a condition of the mouth similar to that resulting from 
mild mercurial salivation. 

Salt beef is good only when new; after a year it becomes dry and 
tough, especially if made of fresh beef of inferior quality. The determina- 
tion of the quality of corned meat is by no means easy and the test of 
cooking must often be employed. When the salting is badly done signs 
of putrefaction can often be detected. The meat is paler than it should 
be, is often slightly greenish in appearance and may have a peculiar odor. 
If the meat has become tainted before brining, no salting will remove its 
softness and it may present the odor of putrefaction. If the meat is old, 
its hardness, toughness and shrivelling will be noted. The use of inferior 
portions for salting can be determined by inspection of the meat after re- 
moval from the brine. It should be remembered that brine is sometimes 
poisonous. This occurs in cases in which the brine has been used several 
times ; a large quantity of animal substance passes into it and appears to 
decompose. The special poisonous agent has not been isolated, but prob- 
ably is a ptomaine. Meat from a pig slaughtered on account of sickness, 
which had been pickled in strong brine for four days and smoked for 
three more, was found by Gliicksmann to have induced fatal poisoning. 
Proteus vulgaris was found in the meat and stomach contents, and when 
injected into animals proved very virulent. The following is the average 
chemical composition of corned beef: 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fat, per cent. 


Fuel value per pound, 
Calories. 


49.2 


14.3 


23.8 


1,271 



The subject of salt pork has already been discussed. 

Chemical Preservatives. Of these, borax and boric acid are now al- 
most generally employed for the preservation of fresh, raw meat, since they 
are effective and cheap as well as odorless and their taste is easily lost or 
disguised when mixed with food. Boric acid is usually preferred by 
butchers to borax, as the latter is considered to bleach the meat. Boric 
acid enters largely into the secret powders used for meat preservation, the 
accessory preservatives being variously salt, saltpetre, sodium sulphite and 
other substances. Ordinarily the surface of the meat is lightly dusted 
over with the boric acid, from ten to fifteen grains per pound being usually 
employed. In the preservation of sausage meat it is said that four ounces 
are generally used to each one hundred pounds of meat. When large 
joints are to be treated, it is customary to cut the meat into comparatively 
small pieces before applying the boric acid, since internal putrefaction fre- 
quently occurs in very large pieces of meat and extends from the J>one 
outward. The meat treated with these substances remains in a fresh state 
for double the usual time and retains its normal qualities and nutritive 
value. 

For the sanitarian the question of chief importance has reference to the 
possible effects of the continued or frequent use of these preservatives upon 
the health of consumers. In general, it cannot be said that the influence 
of borax or boric acid, in this respect, is unfavorable when taken in mod- 



THE RATION. 231 

erate quantities. Chittenden found no interference with the processes of 
digestion following the use of borax, and De Cyon observed no disturb- 
ance of the general nutrition of dogs when as much as 12 gin. of this 
substance, added to meat, was used daily this being ten times the 
amount which would ordinarily be taken in on preserved meat by human 
beings. The same writer found that when borax was given in sufficient 
quantity to produce any effect its action was similar to that of common 
salt, tending to increase proteid decomposition. Boric acid, in doses up 
to 3 gm. per day, appears to be without influence upon either pro- 
teid metabolism or the general processes of nutrition. Many general 
statements have been made in condemnation of borax and boric acid pre- 
servatives, especially during the recent war with Spain. It is noteworthy, 
however, that these statements were purely matters of opinion and were 
not founded on personal observation of any ill effects directly traceable to 
the use of these substances, and it may probably be accepted that, in the 
quantities in which they might be taken into the system with food preserved 
by their agency, they exert no harmful influence upon the organism. 
This lack of toxicity, however, does not necessarily render the use of the 
borax compounds desirable for the military service ; and this is particularly 
the case since in artificial refrigeration there is available a far more prefer- 
able method of preserving fresli meat, and one which is not open to criti- 
cism through the use of chemical substances. 

The determination of borax or boric acid in meat is extremely simple, 
requiring no special apparatus for its accomplishment. A portion of the 
suspected meat is cut up, boiled in a small amount of water and the latter 
filtered. A small amount of hydrochloric acid is then added to the filtrate, 
the best proportion being about one part of strong acid to fifteen parts of 
the solution. A greater amount of the acid interferes with the reaction. 
A strip of turmeric paper is then dipj)ed in the acidified solution and al- 
lowed to dry, becoming a bright cherry red. After the paper is dried a 
drop of ammonium or sodium hydrate is added ; when, if boric acid be 
present, the color of the wet paper changes to dark green ; or if boric acid 
be present in large quantity, to a dull black. If no boric acid be present 
the addition of the alkali produces a light brown tint, but the play of 
colors cherry red to green is characteristic of boric acid. 

The use of salicylic acid forms the basis of several methods of preser- 
vation ; this substance having a marked effect in restraining putrefactive 
processes. A method successfully employed in the Italian army, as far as 
the preservation of meat was concerned, consisted in covering fresh meat 
with a coating of salicylated grease, the whole then being packed in kegs 
or barrels. Fresh meat so treated was found capable of being preserved 
about two months without apparent alteration. The salicylated grease 
was readily removed and was used over again for a number of times. It 
is understood that this method was not long used. 

Salicylic acid is a drug possessed of marked caustic properties when 
used in strength, and is capable of inducing severe toxic symptoms if taken 
continuously or in considerable doses. Its use for the preservation of meat 
intended for troops is unjustifiable. The presence of salicylic acid or the 
salicylates in suspected meat is readily determined by washing the surface 
of the meat with water, and adding a few drops of tincture of the chloride 



232 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

of iron to a test-tubeful of the washings. If salicylic acid or the salicy- 
lates be present a deep purple color is developed, varying in intensity 
with the amount of these substances. This test is delicate enough to de- 
termine the presence of one part in the million of the solution. 

A process which has been considerably employed in the past for the 
preservation of meat consists in its exposure, for a number of hours, to the 
fumes of sulphur dioxide. This process is uncertain in its results. It is 
believed not to interfere with the digestibility of meat ; but when thor- 
oughly carried out the latter acquires a somewhat bitter taste and a sour, 
putrid odor. This method is now largely abandoned. It is said that a 
much-criticised quarter of meat carried on a transport to Santiago, during 
the war with Spain, for trial as to its keeping qualities, had been treated 
with sulphur dioxide. 

Formaldehyde has quite recently been adopted as a food preservative 
and is now much used though more especially to add to the keeping 
qualities of milk than of meat. In the proportion of one to fifty thousand, 
as has been shown by Rideal and Fullerton, formaldehyde, employed in 
watery solution, is an effective preservative of milk for twenty-four hours. 
In this strength, even during extended periods of use, this substance 
appears to have no injurious effect upon the consumer. 

Meat has been preserved by formaldehyde by spraying, or wrapping 
it in cloths saturated with a solution of no great strength. When pre- 
served in this manner meat will remain free from taint for a number of 
days. Formaldehyde, however, combines with albuminous material to 
form a new compound, practically insoluble and highly indigestible. 
When permitted to come in contact with meat it thus forms a protective 
surface coating, which, besides possessing directly antiseptic and germi- 
cidal properties, mechanically hinders invasion by the bacteria of putre- 
faction. Meat treated in this way, however, frequently acquires a dis- 
agreeable odor, and the appearance of its outer layers is much changed. 
In the quantity in which formaldehyde could be taken in by the individual 
with meat preserved by this agent, it may fairly be presumed that no di- 
rectly toxic effects might be expected. Interference with the digestive 
processes might fairly be anticipated, unless the outer layers of the meat 
were cut away and rejected. It may be concluded that for the military- 
service the preservation of meat by formaldehyde is quite inadvisable, and 
from the chemical changes produced would readily be recognized. Leys 
states that formaldehyde may be detected by adding together 25 c.c. of 
the suspected fluid, 10 c.c. of a colorless solution of phloroglucin (1 gm. 
in 1 liter) and from 5 to 10 c.c. of a weak potash solution, shaking in a 
test tube. If formaldehyde is present a red color is produced, which dis- 
appears after a few minutes. 

Other Methods. Efforts have been made to preserve meat by vari- 
ously coating it with fat, glucose, gelatin and glycerin. The application 
of charcoal or sugar to the exterior of meat is said by Woodhull to increase 
greatly its keeping qualities, and the same writer suggests the rubbing of 
meat with black gunpowder for the same purpose. It is obvious that such 
methods of preservation can have no practical value for the military service. 



THE RATION. 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES INVOLVED IN THE COOKING OF MEAT. 

By cooking, meat is rendered more pleasing to the eye, acceptable to 
the palate and digestible by the stomach. Before cooking, meat is tough 
and stringy, but when cooked the muscular fibres are given firmness from 
the coagulation of their albumen, and the connective tissue which binds 
the fibres together is softened into a gelatinous condition especially favor- 
able to the action of the digestive juices. If meat is so tough as to resist 
the softening action of cooking, it may be made tender, before putting on 
the fire, by macerating in weak vinegar or cutting into thin slices and 
pounding across the cut ends until the fibres are broken. From a sanitary 
standpoint, the cooking of flesh has a special value, since, when properly 
performed, it destroys all parasites or disease germs existing in it. Mftt 
is commonly cooked by boiling, stewing, roasting or baking, broiling and 
frying. 

Boiling. In the military service, boiling is a much abused method of 
cooking. The object of boiling is ordinarily not to extract the constituents 
from meat, but rather to retain its flavor and nutriment. Hence the piece 
to be cooked sliould be large about five pounds and should be plunged 
at once into boiling water, to coagulate the albumen of the outer layers 
and thus retain the juices. If this is not done, much of the nutritive sub- 
stance passes into the fluid. The actual period of boiling should not last 
longer than a few minutes ; the temperature should then be lowered and 
the cooking conducted at a heat at about 160 to 180 F. This is the 
true cooking point of meat, since above this point the albuminous material 
becomes completely solidified and, from its hardness, indigestible. Over- 
heating is therefore to be avoided and the slower the cooking the better 
the result. Usually meat is boiled fifteen minutes for each pound of its 
weight. Rapid boiling is to be avoided ; additional heat is not generated 
by furious boiling, and much of the volatile principles escape when steam 
is rapidly generated. The use of the kitchen thermometer by inexperienced 
cooks is much to be desired in both boiling and stewing. As ordinarily 
prepared, boiled meat is somewhat tasteless and conij>aratively less diges- 
tible. The flavor of meat depends upon the extractives present, and these 
are liable to be removed to considerable extent by this method of cooking. 
After prolonged boiling the muscular fibres approach the condition of gela- 
tin, a substance possessing but slight nutritive value. Tallin found that 
after four hours of boiling the internal temperature of a joint of beef at- 
tained 90 to 100 C. While this temperature destroys organic life it 
does not destroy the harmful qualities of ptomaines. 

Stewing. This, when properly conducted, is an admirable way of 
preparing meat. It is much used in foreign armies but has never become 
popular in our own service. In stewing, small pieces of the meat should 
be placed in a little water and the whole maintained at a temperature of 
140 to 145 F. for several hours. Very high temperatures, which co- 
agulate and toughen the albumen, defeat the object of stewing, in which 
the effort is made to dissolve out as large a proportion as possible of the 
juices of the meat. When stewing is employed the accompanying liquid 
should be served with the meat ; the two dishes combining all the nutritive 



234 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

principles to be found in roast or boiled meat and at the same time pre- 
senting them in a form very easy of digestion and acceptable to the palate. 
For stewing meat the ordinary water-bath, made on a larger scale, is an 
excellent cooking apparatus and deserves a place in all company kitchens. 
In its absence a satisfactory substitute may be improvised. That very high 
temperatures are quite unnecessary for stewing is shown by the successful 
results given by the use of the Norwegian stove, to which reference is made, 
in another section. 

When it is desired to extract all the goodness of meat to form a soup, 
the meat should be finely cut up and placed in cold water. After it has 
soaked for a while, heat should be applied slowly. If a broth is to be 
made, the heat, though constantly applied, is not allowed to reach boiling 
for some time, much of the albumen being thus extracted before coagula- 
tion has taken place; most of the natural juices having passed into the 
broth, the meat is left tasteless but still not without some nutritive value. 
In the making of soup the same procedure is adopted, but simmering is 
continued longer, as is also the boiling ; more of the gelatin being extracted 
and little of the meat being left except as innutritions and tasteless fibre. 
The difference between a broth and a soup is, therefore, merely one of 
degree. 

Roasting. By roasting is properly to be understood that process by 
which joints or large pieces of meat are cooked by the direct heat of a fire, 
without interposition of utensils and generally in the open air. This 
method is at present rarely employed except by individual soldiers in the 
field, baking being substituted for it. When properly carried out the re- 
sults, are excellent, but in practice this is infrequently the case. 

Broiling. This is the same in principle as roasting, but the scorching 
of the surface is greater, owing to the larger surface exposed to the heat. 
The pieces also are smaller and are usually cut in slices. In broiling the 
article should be turned frequently so as to have it cooked evenly. It is 
better to broil before a fire than over it, since in the latter case the fat and 
juices fall into the flames and tend to give a smoky flavor by their igni- 
tion. Broiling is rarely used in our service. In the field it occasionally 
happens that soldiers toast their meat ration before the fire, but such meat 
is apt to be scorched or imperfectly cooked and the result is usually unsat- 
isfactory. 

Baking. Baking, miscalled roasting, is usually employed in cooking 
the beef and mutton components of the ration. The temperature of the 
oven is best maintained at about 400 F. This may be determined by the 
thermometer; but ordinarily the naked hand and arm are thrust into the 
oven, and if it can be held there for fifteen seconds the temperature is 
about right. Experienced cooks are able to make accurate estimations of 
temperature by this method. Owing to the limited ventilation of the oven 
the volatile principles are largely retained in the meat. Meat is more 
savory when roasted than when boiled or stewed, the juices being retained 
by the protective coating of albumen formed by the high temperature. In 
all roasting processes, to hasten the course and prevent burning of the su- 
perficial parts, the joint should be basted or kept constantly enveloped in a 
coating of hot melted fat; this, while assisting in the communication of 
heat, preventing undue evaporation of the juices. In general, about two 



THE RATION. 235 

and one-half hours are required to cook a ten-pound roast. It should be 
appreciated that the temperature in the centre of a roast of beef of moder- 
ate size remains much below the temperature of boiling, albumen being 
readily coagulated at a far lower temperature. Vallin found that the cen- 
tral temperature of a large roast frequently did not reach 55 C., even 
when the temperature of the periphery stood at 120 to 130 C. ' It is 
thus apparent that roast meat may be dangerous in spite of cooking as 
commonly performed. 

Frying. This, generally speaking, is a bad way of cooking. In the 
field it is probably the most convenient way of preparing the meat ration \ 
and under such circumstances the stimulation of the digestive functions' 
through hard exercise in the open air, undoubtedly does much to diminish 
its harmful effects. Where much grease is used, and this is raised to a 
high temperature (400 F.) before the meat is added, but little fat is ab- 
sorbed by the latter, since the great heat at once creates a protective coat- 
ing of coagulated albumen on the outside of the meat." If, however, the 
fat is not hot enough or is chilled by dropping too much in it at one time, 
the meat will absorb it and suffer marked deterioration in digestibility and 
flavor. The latter method is unfortunately the only one ordinarily avail- 
able to the soldier on campaign. When heated slowly, fat undergoes de- 
composition into glycerin and fatty acids the latter materially retarding 
digestion. When little jets of smoke issue from the melted fat, a suitable 
temperature for frying has been attained. In garrison, fried foods should 
always be drained a few moments in a sieve or colander to remove excess 
of grease. 

FISH. 

Fresh Fish. The place of tish in the diet, if judged by its composi- 
tion, is the same as that of meat ; it being supplementary to the vegetable 
foods, most of which are deficient in protein the chief nutrient in fish. 
Fresh fish, when obtainable, makes a useful variation in the diet, but 
should not be too frequently issued. Troops soon tire of it; besides which 
its flesh contains so much water, and the wastage incident to its prepara- 
tion for the table is so great, that the ration of fresh fish, from a nutritive 
standpoint, is far inferior to the ration of fresh meat. Ordinarily, when 
dressed for cooking, the entrails, head and fins and, less frequently, the 
bones are removed. This entails a considerable loss in weight as well 
as of nutritive material. It has been assumed, as a result of numerous in- 
vestigations, that in dressing fish the following percentages are lost: 
Large-mouthed black bass, sea bass, cisco, kingfish, mullet, white perch, 
pickerel, pike, tomcod, weakfish and whitefish, each 17.5 per cent. ; small- 
mouthed black bass, eel, Spanish mackerel, porgy and turbot, each 13.5 
per cent.; butterfish, 12.5 per cent.; shad, 11 per cent.; brook trout, 16.5 
per cent. More recent figures for loss in weight in dressing are as fol- 
lows: Bullhead, 50 per cent. ; buffalo fish and lake sturgeon, 40 per cent. ; 
carp and sucker, 35 per cent. ; fresh-water sheepshead, 23 per cent. ; grass 
pike, black bass, white bass, yellow perch and salmon, 15 per cent. ; eels, 
10 per cent. 

Fish is less satisfying and not so stimulating as the flesh of animals. 
Contrary to accepted ideas, experiments indicate that fish is less quickly 



236 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

digested than beef, being about equal to lamb in this respect. However, 
the difference in digestibility of fish and meat is not very great, and before 
sweeping deductions are made the thoroughness as well as rapidity with 
which fish is digested should also be taken into account. A number of 
experiments have been made on man with reference to the completeness 
with which fish is digested, and these show that fish and lean beef are 
ultimately about equally digested. Langworthy states that about ninety - 
five per cent, of the total dry matter, ninety-seven per cent, of protein and 
over ninety per cent, of the fat are utilized in the human organism. In 
general, the digestibility and flavor of fish depend upon the proportion of 
fat it contains. This varies largely with the species ; but white-fleshed fish 
have little fat while those with darker meat are rich in this substance. 
Salmon has considerable fat and approaches beef in composition. 

The preference for fresh-water or salt-water fish is a matter of individ- 
ual taste. Both are wholesome. The market value of fish is affected by 
various conditions, among which are the locality from which they come, 
the season in which they are taken and the food on which they have 
grown. In general, it may be said that those from clear, cold or deep 
water are preferable to those from shallow or warm water, while fish taken 
in waters with a rocky or sandy bottom are preferable to those from water 
with a muddy bottom. Some fish, for instance shad, are at their best dur- 
ing the spawning season, while others should not be eaten during this pe- 
riod. Those fish which feed on small Crustacea and other forms of animal 
and vegetable life are preferable to those living upon sewage and other 
matter which may contaminate the waters. The mode of capture of fish 
affects their value as food. Those caught by the gills and allowed to die 
in the water by slow degrees, as is the case where gill nets are used, un- 
dergo decomposition very readily and are inferior for food. Fish are often 
landed alive and allowed to die slowly. This custom is not only inhumane 
but lessens the value of the fish. It has been found that such as are killed 
immediately after catching remain firm and bear shipment better than those 
allowed to die slowly. The quality of the fish is often injured by improper 
handling before placing on the market. 

The majority of fishes are infested with different kinds of parasitic 
worms. The only one known with any certainty, however, to be conveyed 
to man is the Bothriocephalus latus. The encysted stage of this worm is 
passed in either the pike or turbot. Fish, particularly decomposed and 
some preserved fish, contain various kinds of bacteria which are often of 
a pathogenic nature. The flesh of apparently healthy fish may produce 
poisonous symptoms. There is. no evidence that such fish are diseased and 
the flesh may not appear to be decomposed ; it at times produces, however, 
violent symptoms of two kinds gastro-intestinal irritation and severe 
ataxic nervous symptoms, with great depression and algidity. The herring, 
flatfish and others have at times been known to cause these effects. 
Mackerel also has produced poisonous symptoms, probably through rapid 
decomposition for when such fish are cooked immediately after being 
caught they do not appear to produce any bad effect. The formation of 
ptomaines quite generally, although not always, accompanies putrefaction. 
Fish which have been frozen and, after thawing, kept for a time before 
being cooked are especially likely to contain injurious ptomaines. 



THE RATION. 



U7 



In examining fish the inspector should satisfy himself as to the matter 
of freshness. Fresh fish is firm and stiff; the drooping or not of the tails 
is a fair criterion in this respect. Flatfish keep better than herrings or 
mackerel. Cod, haddock and whiting keep the best, particularly if rinsed 
with salt water and stored in a cool place. All fish intended for food 
should be unbruised, unbroken and clean. If the scales are dull and 
damaged it is very suggestive of either ill-usage or staleness ; softening in 
places indicates the same. It is an established fact that decomposition in 
the surface fishes, such as herring, mackerel and mullet, is extremely 
rapid. Ground fish, like halibut, cod and plaice, decompose much less 
rapidly, and if properly packed may remain fresh and fit for human food 
from seven to ten days after being taken'from the sea. Fish which have 
been ungutted are the most difficult to insect, more especially those with 
large, oily livers. Externally such fish apjiear good, the eyes being bright 
and gills red, but internally they are full of decomposition and decay. On 
strong pressure between the thumb and fingers the deejer flesh "readily 
crushes, leaving only the skin between the fingers. This is an infallible 
test of unsoundness. Immediately after death the blood of fishes becomes 
coagulated. When decomposition sets in, on cutting the flesh, this blood 
will run out as a liquid of a dull red color, giving off an offensive smell. 
On removing the bones, in such cases, each one leaves a dull red mark, 
showing where the processes of decomposition are extending to the more 
solid portions of the fish. To avoid rapid decomposition, all fish should 
be at ofice bled and gutted on being caught. 

The allowance of fresh fish in the ration is eighteen ounces. As al- 
ready stated, however, this quantity is so reduced by unavoidable wastage, 
and the meat is so watery in character, that it is far inferior in nutritive 
value to the ration of animal flesh ; the legal allowance of whole fresh cod- 
fish furnishing one hundred and fifty-five Calories where the ration of fresh 
beef supplies eleven hundred and eighty Calories. It is therefore evident 
that fresh fish, in the quantity authorized, is not suited for use by troops 
during periods of hard work ; and even in garrison it should never be em- 
ployed more than once weekly. As a general thing the wastage in fresh 
fish and its lack of a satisfying character are appreciated by company com- 
manders, and issues of fresh fish are rarely made by the Subsistence De- 
partment such fish as are desired being purchased from the company funds. 
The variety of fish which may be used as food is almost infinite ; but taking 
into consideration the stations at which our troops are serving, the more 
important species which may presumably from time to time enter into 
the subsistence of the soldier together with their chemical composition- 
will be found in the following table. 



Whole (Mi. 


Water, 
percent 


Protein, 
percent. 


Fit, 

percent. 


Fuel ralue per 
pound, Cakxlf*. 


Bass, black 


34.6 


9.3 


0.8 


205 


Baas sea 


84.8 


8.7 


.2 


170 


Blackflsh 


81.4 


7.4 


.7 


165 


Bluefish 


40.8 


10 


.8 


210 


Cod 


88.7 


8.4 


.2 


165 




:;-j c, 


5.4 


.8 


115 


Halibut (steaks) 


61.9 


15.3 


4.4 


470 














238 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Whole flsh. 


Water, 
per cent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Fat, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound, Calories. 


Herring 


41.7 


11.2 


3 9 


375 


Mackerel 


40.4 


10.2 


4.2 


365 


Mullet 


31.5 


8.2 


2.0 


235 


Perch white 


28.4 


7.3 


1 5 


200 


Perch, yellow 


80 


6.6 


.2 


130 


Pike 


29.7 


6.6 


.4 


135 


Pompano 


39.5 


10.3 


4.3 


375 


Red snapper 


42 


10.8 


.6 


225 


Salmon 


40.9 


15.3 


8.9 


660 


Shad 


35.2 


9.4 


48 


380 


Sheepshead 


26.9 


6.6 


.2 


130 


Smelt 


.46.1 


10.1 


1.0 


230 


Trout 


40.4 


9.9 


1.1 


230 


Weakfish 


38.0 


8.6 


1.1 


205 













In its preparation, fresh fish, is commonly boiled, steamed, broiled, 
fried or baked ; or it may be combined with other materials in some made 
dish. When boiled, it is stated that the loss in weight ranges from five to 
thirty per cent., according to the species and length of cooking. One ex- 
perimenter gives twenty-six per cent, as the average. This loss is largely 
made up of water, and little fat or protein is lost. So far as known, ex- 
periments have not been made which show the losses by other methods of 
cooking than boiling. It is probable, however, that there would be a very 
considerable loss of water by any method. 

Dried Fish. This, under favorable circumstances, is capable of pres- 
ervation for at least a year ; but the process of curing not only modifies 
the flavor but impairs digestibility. Preserved fish, as a rule, show a small 
percentage of refuse, with the exception of a few kinds which are preserved 
whole. The percentage of actual nutrients is naturally much larger than 
in the corresponding fresh fish, owing to the removal of a large part of the 
refuse and considerable fluid. The gain in nutrients is chiefly represented 
by protein, which is the most valuable nutrient. The allowance of dried 
fish, issued in the form of codfish, is fourteen ounces; the chemical com- 
position of dry salt cod, as issued, being as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fat, per cent. 


Fuel value per pound, 
Calories. 


40.2 


16.0 


0.4 


315 



Bad codfish has a disagreeable odor and its hardness and consistency are 
notably diminished. In color such codfish is frequently reddish, the latter 
being due to a development of a growth the Clathrocystis roseopersinica, 
according to Viry which is of itself not poisonous but may often be a 
sign of the development of micro-organisms of a dangerous character. 
This red growth can be prevented by salting the codfish with a salt con- 
taining sodium sulpho-benzoate in the proportion of five per cent, by 
weight, or by dusting the fish with boracic acid. In the French service, 
where fish is regularly issued on Fridays, several outbreaks of ptomaine 
poisoning have followed the use of spoiled codfish. These outbreaks close- 
ly resembled those due to the use of meats of bad character. 



THE RATION. . 

Brieger has isolated a ptomaine from putrid codfish, which he considers 
identical with muscarin and which gives symptoms analogous to those fol- 
lowing the use of poisonous toad-stools. There appears reason to believe 
that where fish are originally unsound, the processes of salting and drying 
serve to increase the capabilities of the fish as regards the production of 
irritant symptoms. 

Care should be taken to see that codfish issued to troops is new, firm 
and white ; and that it readily softens when placed in cold water and the 
latter brought nearly to the boiling point and kept at that temperature for 
an hour. 

Pickled Fish. The allowance of pickled fish is eighteen ounces, salt 
mackerel usually being employed for this issue. Pickled fish is rarely 
drawn, and then only for the sake of variety. . It is not relished to any 
great extent by troops and could well be dropped from the ration. Its 
keeping qualities are, however, better than those of dried fish. The chemi- 
cal composition of salt mackerel is as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, percent. 


Fat, per cent. 


Fuel v ui in- per pound. 
Calorie*. 


34.8 


13.9 


21.2 


1,155 



Pickled fish should be stored in a cool, damp place and be kept well 
brined, as they soon become rusty and impaired in quality if the brine 
leaks out and leaves them dry. 

Canned Fish. Canned salmon is employed with advantage, as part 
of the ration, in the quantity of sixteen ounces. It is palatable and diges- 
tible, and its nutritive value, for fish, is relatively high. Used as an occa- 
sional substitute for meat it gives a welcome variety to the diet, especially 
for the lighter meals of the day. The fish is canned in its own juice and 
the original flavor is largely retained. In composition, canned salmon com- 
pares favorably with the fresh article. Generally speaking, the amount of 
refuse is small, since the portions commonly rejected in preparation for 
the table are also removed before canning. The following is the chemical 
composition of canned saUnon : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fat, per cent. 


Fuel value per pound, 

Calorie*. 


56.8 


19.5 


7.5 


680 



Canned fish should never be allowed to remain long in the can after 
opening, but should be used at once. There is some possibility of danger 
from the combined action of the can contents and oxygen of the air upon 
the lead of the solder or the can itself. Furthermore, canned fish seems 
peculiarly suited to the growth of micro-organisms when exposed to the 
air, and the production of poisonous ptomaines is extremely rapid, espe- 
cially under conditions of warmth, moisture and a deficient supply of oxy- 
gen. 



240 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



THE BREAD AND VEGETABLE COMPONENTS. 

Flour. The inspection and preparation of grain, in the manufacture 
of flour, does not concern the military sanitarian, who has merely to do 
with the finished product. In the United States service wheat flour only 
is used, but in some northern countries, notably in Germany, where the 
production of wheat is less extensive, rye flour is much used in the prepa- 
ration of bread for the soldier. 

On account of the variation from the normal in the chemical compo- 
sition of the wheat from which it is made, arising from the peculiarities of 
the kind of wheat or of the soil on which it was grown, or the meteorolog- 
ical conditions which prevailed during its growth, or a combination of these 
factors, flour will generally be deficient in some and redundant in other 
chemical elements essential to the production of good bread of proper nu- 
tritive value. These faults are, however, readily corrected by the miller, 
by properly mixing one or more brands of spring wheat flour with one or 
more brands of winter wheat flour. To make bread of proper nutritive 
value and wholesomeness, " straight " flour which contains all the ele- 
ments of the fully developed wheat grain, except the husk or bran is es- 
sential, and flour of this character is the variety supplied for issue as a 
component of the ration, the daily allowance per man being eighteen ounces. 
The average chemical composition of such flour is as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fat, per cent. 


Carbohydrates, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound, Calories. 


12.8 


10.8 


1.1 


74.8 


1,640 



Where large lots of flour are to be purchased or issued, the samples 
should be examined microscopically, physically, chemically and practically 
by making bread. This is particularly necessary in time of war, when 
flour is more liable to be adulterated by unscrupulous contractors. Detec- 
tion of any such adulteration should be followed by the severest punish- 
ment of those responsible. Riordan states that : " The prompt action of 
the Russian authorities, during the Russo-Turkish campaign, on discover- 
ing that the flour furnished by the head of the commissarial department 
contained a large proportion of terra alba, is to be commended. The man 
who endangered the success of the enterprise was immediately shot for his 
dishonesty." 

Ordinarily, when flour is purchased in small quantities, the physical 
and practical examinations will be sufficient. In appearance, flour should 
be of a warm white color, not a chalky white. The latter indicates 
deficiency in strength from over-grinding, which removes too much of the 
gluten and leaves the starch element too prominent. A bluish tinge indi- 
cates the presence of cockle seed a small black seed borne by a weed 
which grows among the wheat or smut, a fungous disease to which wheat 
is liable. The color which flour will give to bread made therefrom caD 
be shown by placing a flattened ball of dough on a piece of window-glass 
and noting the color of the bottom through the glass after twenty-four 
hours. 



THE RATION. 241 

On touching the flour there should be no lumps, or, if there are, they 
should at once break down on light pressure. There must be no grittiness; 
which shows that the starch grains are changing, are adhering too strongly 
to each other and will give an acid bread. There should, however, be a 
certain amount of cohesion when a handful of flour is compressed. When 
flour is damp it should be rejected without question. This condition is 
indicated by the possibility of rolling a pellet of it between the thumb and 
finger, or by the general feeling of moisture perceptible in running the open 
hand through it. Where more exactness is required in determining the 
water, the following method may be employed: Weigh 1 gm., spread it 
out on a dish, and dry either by a water-bath, or in a hot-air bath or oven, 
the temperature not being allowed to go above 212 F. The flour must not 
be at all burnt or much darkened in color. Weigh directly the flour is 
cold ; the loss multiplied by one hundred is the percentage of water. The 
range of water is from ten per cent, in the best dried flours to eighteen per 
cent, in the worst. The more water the greater the liability of change in 
the flour and the less is the amount of nutriment supplied by a given weight. 
If, then, the water be over eighteen per cent., the flour should be rejected; 
if over sixteen, it should be regarded as of inferior character. Moisture, 
in the presence of heat, favors the development of the bacteria by which 
fermentative changes are produced. Fermenting flour produces gastro- 
intestinal disorders. The heat and moisture of the stomach doubtless ex- 
cite at once very rapid fermentation, carbon dioxide is rapidly developed; 
hence uncomfortable feelings, flatulence, imperfect digestion and diar- 
rhoea. It is to remedy this condition of the flour that alum is added, 
and some of the effects ascribed to alum may be really owing to the bad 
character of the flour itself. In some instances the flour may have been 
originally good, but altered either from age or imperfect drying. The 
bread made from such flour is often acid, and sometimes highly so, suffi- 
cient to produce diarrhoea; though sucli bread has sometimes been used for 
a long time without this effect usually soldiers will not eat much of it 
and 'thus their supply of nutriment is lessened. 

The taste of flour must not be acid, although the best qualities are 
slightly acid to test paper. If flour does not have the taste of sound, 
freshly -ground wheat meal, or if it has a sour taste or a musty, mouldy or 
earthy taste or odor, however slight, it should be rejected. Earthy smell- 
ing flour is made from wheat which has been exposed to dampness while 
in the straw. Bread made from such flour is clammy, heavy, dark -colored 
and unwholesome. To determine whether flour has absorbed any foreign 
odor, three or four ounces of it should be placed on a plate and drenched 
with boiling water. If contaminated in the above respect the foreign odor 
is readily noticed in the vapor. 

The quantity and quality of the gluten present in a flour is a matter of 
great importance, and different kinds of wheat van- greatly in this respect. 
Gluten has a high nutritive value as an easily digested proteid ; mixed with 
water it forms a tenacious, elastic body, which expands under the pressure 
of the gas from the yeast until the dough is full of vacuolations whose 
walls of tough gluten do not allow the contained gas to escape, and thus 
make the dough light and porous. The so-called hard wheats are rich in 
gluten of a strong, tenacious character, while soft wheats contain less glu- 
16 



242 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ten and proportionately more starch. The gluten of hard wheat can be 
mixed with large amounts of water, and produces a large loaf from a com- 
paratively small quantity of flour. Soft wheat, on the other hand, while 
it does not yield so large a loaf, makes a bread containing less water and 
having a milder and more agreeable flavor. In general, flour containing a 
satisfactory proportion of gluten should stick to a perpendicular flat surface 
when thrown against it. The strength of flour, or the amount and quality 
of its gluten, can also be determined with sufficient accuracy for all practi- 
cal purposes from the elasticity and other characteristics of its dough. For 
this test, two ounces of the flour are mixed with one fluid-ounce of water 
good flour absorbs water in about this proportion and the mixture is 
thoroughly kneaded into a dough. The latter is then moulded into the 
form of a cylinder about two and one-half inches long and one and three- 
fourths inches in diameter. It is then placed on end on a flat surface and 
allowed to remain half an hour. If it stands up and retains its form well, 
and has acquired a hardened, dry surface, it is evidence of the sufficiency 
and good character of the gluten. If it falls, flattens or "runs," it is evi- 
dence that the gluten is deficient in quantity or quality or both. If 
dough which has stood the first test satisfactorily be flattened out by pull- 
ing it around the ends until it is so thin as to be transparent, it is further 
evidence of good character ; and if, when rolled in the form of a thin cylin- 
der, it is pulled gently at the ends and the tension then relaxed, the dough 
retracts on itself and resumes its former shape, no further evidence as to its 
good character is required. The gluten may be determined with accuracy 
by weighing out 10 gm. of the flour and mixing it into a dough with a 
glass rod while water is slowly added from a burette. The dough is then 
allowed to stand about fifteen minutes, at the end of which time a little 
water is added, the dough worked with the rod and the starch poured off. 
This process is continued until the dough is so coherent that it can be 
worked with the fingers, when it is manipulated until the water which 
comes off is quite clear. The gluten is preferably weighed after drying on 
a water-bath. If weighed in the wet state the gross weight should be 
divided by 2.9 to get the amount of dried gluten. Dry 
gluten usually ranges from eight to ten per cent. ; flour 
showing less than eight per cent, should be rejected. 

Flour is in its best condition one to three months 
after milling. After this period it does not improve 
and ultimately undergoes deterioration. Animal and 
vegetable parasites appear in it, and its acidity increases 
rapidly and progressively. Under ordinary conditions, 
the period of good preservation of flour does not extend 
beyond a few months. In general, flour made from 
winter wheat has superior keeping qualities. No flour, 
however, will keep unless made from sound and well- 
FIO. 79.-Tyro&iyphus cleaned wheat. The minute so-called flour mite 
Tyroglyphus longior is by no means uncommon in 
old, inferior flour, especially if it is damp. Its occur- 
rence does not necessarily indicate that leguminous seeds are present, as 
sometimes stated. The presence of these mites always shows that the 
flour is beginning to change. A single mite may occasionally be found 




THE RATION. 



2115 



m good flour, but even one should be looked on with suspicion, and the 
iour should be afterward frequently examined to see if they are increas- 
ing in numbers. These insects are capable of passing into a resistive 
stage in which they can exist without food for many months. If a store- 
ouse be once infected, their extermination is a matter of considerable 
difficulty. 

Several species of little flattened beetles, of a shining brown color and 
similar appearance generally, so frequently occur in bags and barrels of 
flour as to have earned the popular title of "flour weevils." They live 
upon cereals and other seeds and various other stored products, but gener- 
ally prefer flour and meal and articles of diet containing farinaceous matter. 
Their eggs are often deposited in the flour in mills, and these and the lame 





Fio. 80. Trtbollum confusum. a, Beetle ; b, larva ; c, pupa. (All much enlarged.) 

they produce, being minute and pale in color, readily escape notice ; but 
after the flour has been barreled or placed in bags and left unopened for 
any length of time, the adult beetles make their appearance and in due 
course the flour ( is ruined, for when the insects have time to propagate 
they soon convert the flour into a gray, useless mass. A part of the an- 
noyance is due to the fact that the insects are highly offensive, a few 
specimens being sufficient to impart a disagreeable and persistent odor to 
the infested substance. While there are several allied varieties of these 
flour beetles, the most important is the Tribolium confusum, which is said 
to be the most destructive of all insects to prepared cereal foods. The 
mature insect is shining brownish-red in color, and is about one-sixth of 
an inch long. 

Somewhat rarer pests are the larvae of various kinds of moth, more 
particularly Ephestia kuehniella, belonging to the micro-lepidoptera. In 
this insect the adult moth has a wing expanse of a little less than an inch ; 
the fore-wings are pale leaden-gray, with transverse back markings of the 
pattern shown in the accompanying illustration ; the hind-wings are dirty 
whitish, semi-transparent, and with a darker border. The caterpillar is 
whitish and hairy. The chrysalis is reddish-brown. 

For the destruction of all these flour insects exposure to weak fumes 
of sulphur dioxide is efficacious ; but the quality of the flour is somewhat 



244 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

injured for bread-making by this treatment. The method now generally 
adopted by millers for destroying these insects consists in spreading out the 
flour, so as to expose a reasonably large surface, in a small, fairly tight 
room. Bisulphide of carbon is then evaporated in shallow dishes, or on bits 
of cloth or cotton waste, distributed about on the surface of the infested 
material. The liquid rapidly volatilizes, and being heavier than air, the 
vapor descends and kills the insects in the flour or grain. While this 
liquid has a strong, disagreeable odor, this soon passes away. Its inflam- 
mability should be remembered. One ounce of the bisulphide is said to 
be sufficient for one hundred pounds of flour. For the fumigation of in- 
fested storehouses one pound to each one thousand cubic feet of space is 
required. 

In flour which has gone to extreme decomposition, and is moist and 
becoming discolored, moulds and various forms of bacterial life are fre- 
quently seen. They cannot be mistaken. 






FIG. 81. Ephestla kuehniella. o, Moth ; c, larva ; d, pupa. (Enlarged.) 

Good flour cannot be made from sprouted wheat, because such wheat 
has undergone more or less fermentation and, although it may be given a 
satisfactory appearance by careful milling, it will not ferment sufficiently 
to make good bread. Such flour feels heavy and is dull, flat and lifeless. 
The dough made from flour of this character has a rank odor, and the bread 
is moist, heavy and dark colored. Occasionally flour from wheat grown 
on sandy soil, or where lime is deficient, may rise well enough, but the 
bread becomes heavy and sour when it cools. This is especially the case 
with Arizona-grown wheat. Good bread may be made from such flour by 
the use of lime-water. 

The impurities which may accidentally gain entrance to a bag of grain, 
or even into the flour made from it, consist chiefly of the seeds of other 
plants and of blighted or moulded wheat. The foreign seeds most to be 
dreaded are perhaps cockles and darnel, and both should be carefully 
guarded against cockles because they injure the color of flour and bread, 
and darnel because it is commonly regarded as poisonous. Other foreign 
seeds may not be equally dangerous, but they should be removed 1 with 
equal care as they lessen the nutritive value and strength of the flour. 
In the United States there is undoubtedly little attempt at the adultera- 
tion of flour offered for military use. The adulterants which are most com- 
monly used abroad are rye flour, corn (maize) flour, rice meal, potato starch 
and meals from various leguminous plants, such tfe peas or beans. They are 
not harmful in the food and sometimes improve the color of the bread ; nev- 



THE RATION. 245 

ertheless they are fraudulent because they lower the quality of the flour 
without harming its appearance. The mixture is sold as flour, and thus 
the Government would secure an adulterated article under a false name 
and at the same price as pure goods. The nature of these grains can be 
determined by the microscope. Mineral substances, such as alum, borax, 
chalk and carbonate of magnesia, are occasionally put into the flour to 
whiten it or to neutralize its acidity; but these are more often used by the 
baker than by the miller. When flour is suspected of adulteration with a 
mineral substance, it should be strongly shaken with chloroform. The 
flour floats, while all mineral matters fall to the bottom. Many other 
tests are given for the detection of special mineral substances, but 
these will rarely be required in the inspection of flour for the military 
service. 

Flour keeps best in cool, dry and well-ventilated storage. Extremes 
of temperature should as far as possible be avoided, nor should flour be ex- 
posed to a freezing temperature. It is peculiarly sensitive to exhalations 
from other substances, and, therefore, should not be stored in proximity to 
articles which give rise to powerful or unpleasant odors. .In general, flour 
sacks should be packed- in tiers, but caking occurs in the lower layers if 
the tiers be too high. 

Bread. This, the other important part of the ration with meat for 
practically bread and meat make up its nutritive value is the only portion 
of it in which there is practically no unavoidable waste. Further, bread 
is very completely digested. It is not, however, a complete diet ; being 
somewhat deficient in nitrogen and markedly so in fats. Greasy food is 
eaten with it by instinct, and unless fats are supplied, as bacon or rich 
gravy, it will often be wasted by troops. When used with other foods in 
proper proportion, it is much appreciated and can be eaten indefinitely 
without becoming distasteful. 

The allowance of soft bread is the same as that of flour, eighteen ounces. 
It is possible, however, to increase the bread ration to the full extent of 
the flour ration, or any part thereof, under the concurrent authority of the 
post council of administration and the commanding officer. Under ordi- 
nary circumstances in civil life a pound of bread is made from three-fourths 
of a pound of flour the additional weight being due to the water required 
in the process. With some flour five to ten per cent, more water can be 
absorbed, and in the military service the savings on a hundred-weight of 
bread are ordinarily calculated at about thirty-three pounds of flour. On 
the other hand, since many of the compounds formed during the fermenta- 
tion process are either gases or are volatile at the temperature of baking, 
appreciable losses of dry matter necessarily take place. These losses are 
usually estimated at about three or four per cent, of the flour used. The 
chief difference in the composition of flour and bread is the proportion of 
water, which makes about one-eighth the weight of flour and one-third 
that of the bread. The average composition of bread, such as is used in 
our service, is as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fate, per cent. 


Carbohydrates, 
percent. 


Fuel value per 
pound. Calorie*. 


85.4 


9.5 


1.2 


52.8 


1,244 



246 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Where carbon dioxide is in any way formed within or forced into the 
interior of dough, so as to divide it into a number of minute cavities, bread 
is made. There are practically two kinds of bread that made by means 
of yeast and that ae'rated by chemical means. In the first, the action of 
the yeast and heat results in fermentation of the carbohydrates and the 
production of carbon dioxide and alcohol; the production of soluble carbo- 
hydrates, as dextrin, from insoluble forms, as starch; the production of lactic 
and other acids ; the formation of other volatile carbon compounds ; the 
partial oxidation of the fats. Besides these there are many other changes, 
the nature of which is less well understood. The ordinary process of bread 
making consists really of three stages namely, the preparation of the 
leaven or ferment, the preparation of the sponge and the making of the 
dough. The ferment is made by mashing boiled potatoes into a thin paste, 
cooling to about 80 F., adding sufficient good yeast and a little flour. The 
mixture is set aside in a warm place for about five hours ; at the end of which 
time the yeast is very active and maltose, dextrin and peptone-like bodies 
have been found in the mixture. To this ferment, when ready, about one- 
third the flour to be used is added, together with sufficient water to form a 
stiff dough and a little salt. The resulting mixture constitutes the sponge, 
in which very active fermentation goes on. After about five hours the 
sponge breaks, owing to the development of large quantities of carbonic 
acid and alcohol from the maltose and dextrin. When the sponge has 
broken twice, the dough is formed by adding to the sponge the remainder 
of the flour and sufficient water. This rises in an hour or so, and is then 
transferred to an oven for an hour and a half. Though the temperature of 
the oven varies from 400 to 450 F., the actual temperature of the dough 
does not rise much over 212 F. In this stage the chemical processes are 
not very active ; but the bread gradually becomes well aerated and its con- 
stituents, undergoing a kind of automatic digestion, improve both in flavor 
and aroma. Military bakers almost invariably prefer to use potato yeast 
rather than the compressed article. 

The so-called " salt-rising " bread is interesting as an illustration of 
self-raised bread. In it the ferments originally present or acquired from 
the air produce the fermentation which leavens it. To make it, warm 
milk and corn-meal are mixed together into a stiff batter, which is left at 
blood heat until the whole mass is sour. Next a thick sponge is made of 
wheat flour and hot water, in which a little salt has been dissolved. This 
sponge and the sour batter are thoroughly kneaded together and set in a 
warm place for several hours. The leavening action started in the batter 
spreads through the dough and produces a light, porous loaf, which many 
persons consider very palatable. Such bread is quite free from acidity, as 
the presence of the salt prevents undesirable fermentation. 

On an average there is about one per cent, by weight of alcohol pro- 
duced when bread is made. It serves a useful purpose, since, in baking, 
the alcohol is volatilized, and the vapor aids the carbon dioxide in expand- 
ing the dough, thus making the bread more porous. Notwithstanding the 
loss of carbohydrates caused by the production of alcohol and carbon 
dioxide, fresh breads ordinarily contain from three to four per cent, of solu- 
ble carbohydrates. Allowing for average losses of carbohydrates by fer- 
mentation, not far from six to eight per cent, of the total insoluble starch, 



THE RATION. 247 

originally present in the flour, is changed to soluble forms during the bread- 
making process. There are also other changes which the starch has under- 
gone which are not shown by chemical analysis. By the combined action 
of the ferments and heat the forms of many of the starch grains in bread 
are materially changed. When bread is extracted with alcohol and water 
to remove a part of the proteids and the soluble carbohydrate bodies, the 
form of the starch grains may be distinctly seen. Many of these appear 
as if they had been partially digested, and many pieces of disintegrated 
starch granules are present. In some cases the outer layers of the starch 
grains appear as if they had been subjected to pressure and initially rup- 
tured. Many of the smaller and medium-sized grains apjiear unaltered. 
These physical changes which the grains have undergone during the bread- 
making process doubtless render bread, when properly made, more sus- 
ceptible to the action of solvents, as the digestive fluids. 

In the non-fermented breads the necessary carlwii dioxide is ordinarily 
generated by mixing sodium or ammonium carbonate with the dough, and 
adding hydrochloric, tartaric or citric acid. Baking-powders are com- 
pounds of these substances, well mixed and preserved in a dry state. The 
chief objections to such yeast substitutes are that unless carefully prepared 
they may be inefficient or harmful, that they are easily adulterated and 
that bread made from them is usually rather tasteless, lacking the flavor 
and aroma which good yeast imparts. Alum is often added to whiten 
bread and stop an excess of fermentation. It is frequently present iu bak- 
ing-powders, and when in excess interferes with digestion. 

The "aerated" or Dauglish patent bread may here be mentioned. In 
this method the water used for wetting the dough is directly charged with 
the requisite amount of carbon dioxide gas, and then mixed with the flour 
in a specially constructed machine. Sometimes a little fermented barley 
infusion or wort, from a brewery, is put into the water. This aids it in 
absorbing the gas, renders the gluten more elastic and improves the flavor 
of the bread. Notter and Firth state that about twenty cubic feet of CO,, 
derived from chalk and sulphuric acid, are used for two hundred and eighty 
pounds of flour ; and that about eleven cubic feet of the gas are actually in- 
corporated with the flour. It is claimed for unfermented breads that they 
do not contain alcohol, acetic acid and other products of excessive fermenta- 
tion, but the advantage is a doubtful one, as the action of yeast partially 
digests the starch, changing it into maltose and dextrin, while the pro- 
teids of flour are also largely converted into albumoses or other peptone- 
like bodies. In general, it should not be forgotten that the lightness and 
sweetness of bread depend as much on the way in which it is made as on 
the materials used. 

On pressing in a well-baked loaf of bread, without, however, breaking 
the surface, it should, if properly baked, spring back into its original 
shape. In good bread not less than thirty per cent, of crust should be 
present, this being yellowish brown, firm and not aerated. The external 
surface should be caramelized but not burned. The amount of crust is 
readily determined by paring it off with a sharp knife and weighing. The 
crumb should be permeated with small, regular cavities and no part should 
be heavy or without these small cells. The partitions between the cavi- 
ties should not be tough, the color should be white and the taste not acid, 



248 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

.even when held in the mouth. If the color changes soon, and fungi de- 
velop, the bread is too moist ; if sodden or heavy the flour is bad, the bak- 
ing at fault or the sponge badly set. In the military service, bad bread is 
generally due to carelessness or inexperience on the part of the baker rather 
than to defect in the raw materials employed. 

From the cheapness of flour, bread is rarely adulterated in this country 
except where mineral salts are mixed into the dough for the purpose of 
producing a good-looking loaf from poor flour. Alum is the most common 
of these. It tends to check the action of the diastase and permits a weak 
flour to absorb more water than usual. It also improves the color of the 
bread. Many reliable bakers use it under the impression that it does good 
and not harm ; but besides producing a bread the nutritive value of which 
is not so great as appearances indicate, it is believed to be really injurious 
to the digestive system and must be ranked as an objectionable adulterant. 
Alum tests are usually made by soaking a sample of the suspected bread 
in a solution of tincture of logwood and ammonium carbonate, in which 
alum betrays itself by a bluish color. Copper sulphate is used to produce 
an effect similar to that of alum in bread, but is believed to be more dan- 
gerous. Lime exerts practically the same influence and does no particular 
harm. In the military service bread is ordinarily baked from the flour 
provided by the Subsistence Department ; and if the quality of the flour be 
good the purity of the bread is insured. Under certain circumstances, 
however, small bodies of troops may be temporarily without facilities for 
baking their own bread, and in such instances the ration of flour may be 
turned over to some civilian baker ; he agreeing to supply an equal weight 
of bread and taking the flour savings for his labor. Under these circum- 
stances special attention should be given to the quality of the bread not 
only as regards the above mineral adulterants but also since dishonest 
bakers are apt to under-bake the bread so as to retain as much water as 
possible and thus increase the weight. It is also for their advantage to 
have the bread weighed out as soon as possible after baking, but this 
should not be done within twenty-four hours. After being taken from the 
oven bread begins to lose weight. This loss naturally depends upon size, 
amount of crust, temperature and movement of air, but in a sheltered 
place, at ordinary temperature, a two-pound loaf, baked with crust all 
over, loses about three-fourths of one per cent, in cooling and from one to 
one and one-fourth in five hours. A similar loaf, with only top and bot- 
tom crust, loses three per cent, in cooling and about four per cent, in five 
or six hours. A loaf with four sides crust loses two per cent, in cooling 
and retains its weight without much further loss for five hours. For each 
of six sides that is not crust there is a loss of weight of about one per cent, 
in the first five hours. At the end of twenty-four hours the proportion is 
about one-half more, and the total loss is doubled at the end of seventy- 
two hours. If the bread is baked in larger loaves the loss will be propor- 
tionately less, the ratio of the evaporating surface to the bulk of the loaf 
being diminished. In the German army bread less than twenty-four hours 
or more than four days old is not accepted for issue. 

Bread may be of bad color from old flour, from grown flour in which 
case the changes in the starch have generally gone on to a considerable 
extent, the bread contains more sugar than usual and does not rise well 



THE RATION. 249 

and perhaps from bad yeast. Bread may undergo lactic or butyric acid 
fermentation from the introduction of specific bacteria. In such instances 
it frequently happens that the vessels used in preparing the dough were 
not thoroughly cleaned after the last using; that the yeast contained an 
undue proportion of these bacteria ; or, if the latter were found only in nor- 
mal quantities, the yeast itself may have been weak and quickly exhausted. 
If the dough stands too long after mixing and the yeast ceases to work, the 
undesirable bacteria, which grow best in the presence of acetic acid, such 
as occurs after alcoholic fermentation has ceased, may undergo luxuriant 
development. In certain cases these bacteria may have been originally 
present in the flour itself and survived baking. Bread which grows sour 
with age has usually received its bacterial infection from the air. When 
sour bread has been produced, great cleanliness on the j>art of the bakers 
and their utensils should be enforced. When the flour itself is acid, lime 
water should be used instead of pure water to moisten the dough. The 
former has the advantage that, while it corrects acidity, it does not check 
the fermentation of yeast. Bread may sometimes be bitter from bitter 
yeast the remedy for this is obvious. 

One of the most common and dangerous faults in bread is heaviness 
and sogginess. This fault may be caused by the use of cheap flours, poor 
in gluten, which cannot absorb all the water put into the dough, or, to 
state it in another way, by the use of too much water in proportion to the 
flour; by too little or by too poor yeast, or by insufficient kneading, rising 
or baking. It is said, also, that if the flour has been dried at too great a 
heat the gluten is altered and the bread does not rise well. The practice 
of wrapping freshly-baked bread in cloths during cooling makes it damp 
and clammy. Heavy bread is one of the most indigestible of foods, since 
when chewed it rolls itself into solid lumps which aftbrd little oppor- 
tunity for the action of the digestive juices to act upon them. Occasion- 
ally the crumb of fresh bread breaks when cut, instead of separating cleanly 
under the knife. Harsh, dry flours, not sufficiently fermented, may be the 
cause of this or the dough may have lost its tenacity by being overworked. 
Another common fault in bread is a crumb full of large, irregular holes 
instead of the small, even pores which it should show. These occur in 
over-kneaded or over-raised dough ; or if they are found just below the 
crust they mean that the oven was too hot and that the crust formed be- 
fore the carbon dioxide had finished expanding. % 

In the course of three or four days after baking, bread sometimes be- 
comes sticky or slimy, assuming a light-brown tint and presenting a 
sweetish taste and peculiar odor. When touched, such bread appears 
sticky a condition which ultimately may become so marked as to permit 
the production of threads which may string out several feet in length. 
This condition was shown by Russell to be due to the presence of the ordi- 
nary potato bacillus Bacillus mesentericus vulgatus and it was found 
that the temperature of the interior of loaves was not sufficiently high to 
destroy these bacilli in the spore condition. This bacillus appears to gain 
access to the bread through the medium of impure yeast, 
need not cause any special alarm from a sanitary standpoint, for the organ- 
ism causing the change is a saprophytic form that is widely spread, 
soon as the fermentative change begins to be well marked it is apparent 



260 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



enough to the taste, so that bread affected with the same would be quickly 
rejected as food. The remedy consists in careful investigation into the 
character of the yeast supply, and, if necessary, the storage at a low tem- 
perature of bread liable to be affected in this manner. 

Among the various species of bacteria which may occur in bread, men- 
tion should be made of the Bacillus prodigiosus, the occurrence of which 
gives rise to blood-red spots in the 
dough. This micro-organism is harm- 
less but from its striking appearance 
its presence is liable to give rise to 
considerable apprehension among those 
less well informed. 

Bread, especially when moist or 
stored in a damp atmosphere, often 
serves as a medium for the develop- 
ment of moulds, the spores of which 
are floating everywhere in the air. 
Balland and Masson state that the 
temperature in the interior of bread 
during baking attains a height of 100 
to 102 C. This heat, combined with 
the acidity of the bread, destroys or- 
dinary pathogenic micro-organisms ; 
but certain spores of high resisting 
powers are capable of subsequent 
Many of the moulds are probably present in the wheat 
form of spores, and hence exposure of the bread to the 




B 

FIG. 82. Aspergtl- 
lus nlger. A, My- 
celium and spores ; 
B, arrangement of 
spores (enlarged). 
(After Lave ran.) 




FIG. 82. Penlcilllum 
glaucum, showing 1 
mycelium and spores- 
(much enlarged). (Af- 
ter Laveran.) 



germination. 

itself in the 

air after baking may not be necessary to induce their development. 

With the more common varieties of these moulds the sanitary officer 





FIG. 84. Mucor mucedo. a. Mycelium and spores ; 
/>, section of sporulatlng form ; c, showing dis- 
semination of spores (enlarged). 



FIG. 85. Rhizopus nlgricans. 



should be familiar, since bread so , affected is unfit for food. Chief 
among these growths is the Penicillium glaucum, which forms the green- 
ish patches so commonly observed on stale bread. Under the micro- 
scope the mould is seen to consist of ramifying filaments with characteristic 
brush-like extremities having a beaded appearance. These beaded extremi- 
ties are due to the arrangement of the spores of the penicillium. Many 
varieties of aspergillus also find on bread a congenial field for their develop- 



THE RATION. 



251 




Fio. 86. Oldium aurantlarum. A. Mycelium; B. 

sport* (enlarged)- 



ment. Among these may be mentioned A. flavus, which produces yel- 
low or light-brown spots; A. glaucus, which gives rise to greenish blotches 
similar to those produced by PeniciUium glaucum, but distinguished from 
it by a more granular appearance ; 
A. niger, which gives rise to black 
granular spots; and finally, A. 
albus, which gives white granular 
patches. Under the microscope 
aspergillus is readily distinguished 
from penicillium, the filaments 
terminating in a bulbous enlarge- 
ment upon which the spores are 
disposed in a manner similar to 
that of a dandelion flower gone to 
seed. It is these spores which 
give to the spots produced by as- 
pergillus their granular appear- 
ance. Three species of mucor are 
also found on mouldy bread. Of these, Mucor mucedo is the most common. 
It forms, on the surface of bread, spots which are variously white, gray 
or blackish. Under the microscope M. mucedo is seen to present a stem 
ending in a bulbous enlargement containing the spores and having a collar- 
like projection around the bottom of this enlargement. When the spores 
are matured the membrane by which they are covered is detached and the 
spores fall on all sides. As these spores are black, the patch made by 
this growth appears white, gray or black according to the period of de- 
velopment. Mucor racemosus forms a yellowish blotch ; 
the filaments of this mould are shorter than in M. mucedo. 
Rhizopus nigricaiis, developing on bread, gives spots which 
are variously black or yellow. The growth is composed 
of short, ramifying filaments, terminating in bulbous ex- 
tremities having a mushroom like appearance when the 
spores are matured. The Oldium aurantiacum a mould 
commonly found on bread forms an efflorescence of a 
golden-yellow or salmon color and having a nauseating 
odor. Under the microscope the growth shows a ramify- 
ing network on which appear globular bodies containing 
the spores. The latter have a characteristic discoidal ap- 
pearance. The Oldium lactis gives white patches of a 
slimy appearance when developing on bread. Under the 
microscope the growth is seen to be made up of elongated 
cells placed end to end. The Oldium albicans, an all in 1 
species, has much the same appearance. Oldium auranti- 
acum has not infrequently been known to cause severe 
diarrhoea in persons who have consumed bread contaminated with this 
mould, and instances are given by Laveran in which similar symptoms 
have been produced by this agent in swine and horses. Viry mentions a 
case in which bread was covered with black and yellow mould forty -eight 
hours after baking, and this bread, fed to cavalry horses, produced paralysis. 
Rhizopus nigricans is believed to be especially dangerous. It is probable 




FIG. 87. Oldium 
lactis. A, Ma- 
ture form; R, 
young form. 



252 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

that all moulds found on bread, through the changes which they induce 
and the toxins to which they may give rise, are more or less dangerous 
the degree probably depending to a considerable extent upon the physical 
condition of the consumer. From what has been said it is obvious that 
bread not immediately to be eaten should be stored in clean, dry and tight 
receptacles, preferably of metal or earthenware, and the latter sunned and 
sterilized at frequent intervals. The not uncommon practice in our service 
of keeping bread exposed to the air in damp, dark cellars or closets should 
be guarded against. 

As a general rule, bread for troops should not be issued earlier than 
twenty-four hours, nor later than forty-eight hours, after baking. Too 
fresh bread is unhealthful and the wastage is considerable, since many 
soldiers eat only the crust of such bread and reject the damp crumb. 
Hence, from an economical as well as sanitary standpoint, stale rather than 
fresh bread should be issued. In instances where the loaves have become 
too hard and dry they can be re-baked the moisture being driven from 
the crust into the crumb by this procedure, and the bread thereby fresh- 
ened. An even better plan is to dip the loaves into water before re- 
baking. Such warmed-over bread, however, rapidly changes and must be 
eaten within twenty-four hours. It also lacks the elasticity of the fresh 
loaf and its interior crumbles as easily as before it was re-heated. Stale 
bread cut into thick slices and toasted is thereby freshened; bread sour 
from an excess of acid will become more edible through volatilization of 
the acid if cut into thin slices and toasted. 

As great cleanliness should be observed in handling bread as in making 
it. In some post bakeries it is stored in places where dust and dirt can 
get to it, or is handled by unclean persons and transported to the place of 
consumption in dirty receptacles. When fresh bread is to be shipped con- 
siderable distances to troops in the field, particularly if by wagon transpor- 
tation, the loaves of bread should preferably be wrapped in paraffin paper; 
this serving the double purpose of keeping off dirt and preventing the bread 
from drying. For transportation, loaves should be placed on the side or 
end, not on the bottom. An army wagon will carry, with side-boards up, 
eighteen hundred rations of bread. 

Hard Bread. Hard bread is made from unfermented or slightly fer- 
mented dough, from which most of the water is expelled during the process 
of baking. Its keeping powers are far superior to ordinary bread, for which 
it is temporarily a fair substitute under conditions where the latter cannot 
be obtained. Weight for weight it is much more nutritious than soft 
bread, on account of the small quantity of water present. It is, however, 
markedly deficient in fat, and the latter cannot be introduced into its com- 
position on account of the rancidity which early results. The average 
chemical composition of hard bread is as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fats, per cent. 


Carbohydrates, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound, Calories. 


9.2 


14.4 


1.3 


72.8 


1,712 



Hard bread should be of a light yellow color, possess an agreeable taste 
and odor, be resonant when struck and dry to the touch, present no large 



THE RATION. 



253 



cavities and be well cooked without being burnt. The latter is important 
not only for the sake of driving off' the water but also to increase digesti- 
bility through the conversion of a certain amount of starch into dextrin. 
Good hard bread should float and partially dissolve in water, and when 
placed in the mouth should thoroughly soften down. Other things being 
equal, the best hard bread is that which becomes soonest softened when 
soaked in hot water. The bread best responding to this condition is one 
slightly aerated, its substance being evenly pervaded with minute vacuola- 
tions. The density of the bread is lessened by this porosity, but the ad- 
vantage given above more than offsets the slight additional bulk, through 
the lessened danger of diarrhoea among the users. Such vacuolated hard 
bread is far more readily acted upon by the digestive juices than is a 
denser article. While salt improves the flavor of hard bread it increases 
its liability to absorb water and impairs its keeping qualities hence this 
substance should be added only in cases in which the hard bread is in- 
tended for immediate use. 

Valuable as hard bread is for field use, it soon becomes difficult of di- 
gestion, and in the dry state, when improperly masticated, the sharp irri- 
tating fragments are directly provocative of diarrhoea. Further, troops 
early acquire a certain aversion to hard bread, and hence it should be 
issued only in instances where it cannot be avoided. Every effort should 
be made to insure that it is not used more than four or five days succes- 
sively. Hard bread should preferably be softened before use by steeping 
in some fluid ; but soaking in water makes it pulpy and unsatisfactory and 
coffee, soup or similar liquids are not always obtainable. It is sometimes 
softened in water and then fried in bacon fat. This renders it tough and 
indigestible, and such a method of preparation is to be strongly discour- 



Weevils not infrequently make their appearance in hard bread, but can 
be destroyed by putting it into a bake oven and subjecting it to a temper- 
ature of 230 to 240 F. for the period of thirty minutes; or the hard 
bread may be spread out on a clean sheet or paulins and exposed to the hot 
sun for several hours. To prevent deterioration and protect against para- 
sites, bread of this character intended for the French army is put up only 
in the cold weather months and is packed in tins or wooden boxes having 
the joints hermetically sealed with stout paper. When properly packed 
and stored, hard bread is good for about a year, but if exposed to a damp 
atmosphere it soon becomes mouldy. 

Hard bread was formerly put up in large rectangles, but this practice 
is now discontinued and it is issued only in cakes about one and one-half 
inches square. Large biscuits appear to be more difficult to masticate than 
those of smaller size. Hard bread is now conveniently issued in one- 
pound stiff cartons. There is no waste, as formerly occurred to the large 
squares by crumbling when taken out of the original box. 

Pain de Guerre. In this connection note may be made of the "war 
bread " developed in the French service to remove the defects above noted 
as attaching to ordinary hard bread. At first, fresh issue bread was par- 
tially desiccated in the military bake-houses and then compressed, remain- 
ing fairly soft and suited for use in soup. It required, however, about a 
month to reduce the water in a loaf down to twelve or fourteen per cent., 



254 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

and when the residuum was moistened for use its edible qualities were 
regarded by troops as far from satisfactory. Private enterprise along these 
lines was also enlisted by the Government, but the result was a series of 
more or less complete failures. In December, 1892, the war office decided 
on making an extended trial of the compressed bread of Perrier, and after 
a two years' trial the reports received were fairly favorable. Before reach- 
ing a definite decision in the matter, however, the war office called upon 
all persons engaged in the baking trade to produce "a substance occupying 
very small space, but including, nevertheless, the whole of the qualities, 
nutritive and digestive, of ordinary bread." The required product was to 
keep good for a year without deterioration, its dimensions were to be such 
as to admit of its being readily packed in the soldier's valise, and its sub- 
stance was to be sufficiently resistant to withstand the shocks of ordinary 
transportation. The materials used were to consist exclusively of wheaten 
flour, leaven, water and salt. In shape, each piece was to be square or 
rectangular, with a due proportion of crust. The crumb was to be white 
and porous, and both the taste and smell agreeable to the senses. Finally, 
the dryness must be perfect, there must be no crumbling and every loaf 
must swell out to the standard size within ten minutes after immersion in 
water at 50 C. The competition failed to produce a specimen superior to 
Perrier's compressed bread, and the latter has, since 1895, been definitely 
adopted in lieu of hard bread in the French army. In appearance this 
bread somewhat resembles the biscuits for dog food now on the mar- 
ket. It takes up water more readily than ordinary hard bread, but, 
according to Laveran, remains in good condition after immersion in water 
and drying in the sun or by the fire. In soup, it is said to take up eight 
times its own weight of liquid. It has, however, the disadvantage of re- 
quiring about thirty minutes to soften completely in water, is more costly 
than ordinary bread and is not as palatable as fresh bread. It is believed 
by French authorities to be much superior to ordinary hard bread ; but this 
opinion, after due consideration of the merits of both articles, was not 
shared by the board of officers, in our own service, appointed for the pur- 
pose of devising an emergency ration. The process of manufacture of pain 
de guerre is a military secret but it is said to be a true fermented bread. 

Laveran states that a compressed ae'rated bread has been given careful 
trial in the Austrian army, as a result of which it has been formally in- 
cluded in the ration of that service. 

Fresh Vegetables. These are always desirable to afford variety, for 
their own sake as food, to stimulate the appetite, to aid digestion and pre- 
vent constipation. They are most important in the prevention of scurvy. 

Fresh vegetables were formerly not supplied to troops in the. United 
States service, their addition to the ration being of comparatively recent 
date. In the earlier reports concerning the food of soldiers after the Civil 
War, it was commonly stated that, on the frontier, vegetables were scarce 
and correspondingly dear. Many complaints about the lack of vegetables 
were made a deficiency thought to be in no small degree responsible for 
the high percentage of desertions occurring at that time and numerous 
requests that potatoes and onions be added to the ration were made. A 
general scorbutic taint pervaded the troops during this period, and serious 
outbreaks of scurvy occurred at several of the frontier stations, notably in 



THE RATION. 266 

the southwest. To relieve this condition at some of the posts, watercresses 
were planted in the neighboring creeks, gathered and eaten and gardens 
were established where practicable. A few years later an improvement 
was observed ; attributed to better transportation facilities, which enabled 
the company savings on bacon, flour and sugar to be expended on vege- 
tables. In many instances the soldiers themselves contributed toward the 
purchase of an additional supply of vegetables, often as much as a dollar a 
month per man. At present the vegetable component of the ration be- 
sides beans, peas, rice and hominy includes one hundred per cent, of 
fresh potatoes ; or eighty per cent, potatoes and twenty per cent, onions ; or 
seventy per cent, potatoes and thirty per cent, canned tomatoes, or other 
vegetables. No savings from these are purchased by the Government, and 
in time of peace, at established posts, the quantities allowed may be con- 
sidered as ample. Partly, however, on account of the small nutritive 
value of vegetables in proportion to bulk and weight, and partly on ac- 
count of their perishable nature, there will always be great difficulty in 
securing their actual issue during campaign, especially under adverse cli- 
matic conditions that .is to say, there will be the greatest risk of failure 
just when they are most needed. But the recognition of their importance 
and the attempt to supply them constitute a true sanitary advance. The 
large amount of vegetables used in continental armies is worthy of remark, 
and the taste for this class of food is doubtless increased by the foreign 
methods of cooking, which appear to be superior in many ways to our 
own. 

The hygienic examination of fresh vegetables is by no means as impor- 
tant as that of meats, but still should not be neglected. If they have become 
too old and woody, they are inferior in nutritive value and are imperfectly 
digested ; stale vegetables are equally inferior in value and far from appe- 
tizing. In general, they should be of good varieties, of reasonably large 
and uniform size, fully matured, dry, free from cuts and dirt and in all 
respects of good quality and in good condition. 

Where vegetables are watered with sewage or drainage containing the 
ova of the animal parasites, these may find their way into man and un- 
dergo development; pathogenic bacteria may perhaps be introduced in 
the same way, and there is reason to believe that in this manner water- 
cress, growing in sewage-polluted streams, has been on several occasions 
the source of enteric fever outbreaks. In time of epidemic the fresh vege- 
tables used should be carefully selected and thoroughly cooked. The use 
of salads or vegetables in the raw state should be interdicted, as they are 
frequently contaminated with pathogenic micro-organisms through hand- 
ling or washing. In the southern states and in the tropics, vegetables 
rapidly deteriorate and undergo decay. It is provided that such as have 
undergone deterioration shall be issued in increased quantities on the 
recommendation of a board of survey. 

In garrison or permanent camp, where conditions permit, gardens 
should invariably be cultivated by troops. These permit of a considerable 
saving of the ration through the vegetables which they furnish, and also 
supply a variety to the table which is much appreciated by the men. 
Certain stations, unfortunately, afford no facilities for gardens and in the 
field gardening is, of course, impracticable. There is no work more cheer- 



256 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



fully performed by soldiers, or accruing more directly to their advantage, 
than the cultivation of vegetables for their own use. 

Dried or desiccated vegetables of excellent quality are now produced. 
As antiscorbutics they are inferior to fresh vegetables and the latter should 
always be supplied when possible. Dried vegetables may have a place in 
the ration during campaign, where transportation is limited and distances 
are great. To meet these indications they are supplied in various foreign 
services. 

Potatoes. The white potato enters into the ration in the quantity of 
sixteen ounces daily ; a deduction from this allowance being made where 
canned tomatoes, onions or other fresh vegetables are also drawn. Pota- 
toes may be considered as occupying a place next in importance to the 
seeds of the cereals as a vegetable food, and are of particular value since 
their preparation may be largely varied and the system does not soon 
weary of their continued use. The juice of the potato is acid, due to the 
presence of a certain amount of free citric acid and the citrates of potas- 
sium, sodium and calcium, these rendering it particularly efficacious in 
the prevention of scurvy. As the amount of these salts is small, a con- 
siderable quantity of potatoes should be taken daily at least ten or twelve 
ounces if no other vegetables are eaten. Being rich in starch but poor in 
protein and fats the potato, serves excellently to supplement the meat ration. 
The percentage of water is high, though not so much so as in turnips, cabbage 
and similar foods. When properly prepared, potatoes are very digestible 
as regards the carbohydrate element, ninety-three per cent, of this being 
digested. The protein, however, is less readily acted oa, seventy-two per 
cent, only being digested. The waste in potatoes, as ordinarily prepared, 
is about twenty per cent. ; the average chemical composition of the edible 
portion being as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fats, per cent. . 


Total carbohydrates, 
including fibre, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound. Calories. 


78.9 


2.1 


0.1 


18.0 


380 



Potatoes for army use should be of medium size. The very large ones 
are coarse and often hollow, while with very small ones, if peeled before 
cooking, the loss is considerable. The specific gravity of potatoes should 
be greater than that of brine containing 2.25 ounces of salt to the pint. 
Other things being equal, the greater then 1 specific gravity the better their 
quality. They should be smooth, firm and free from worm holes and po- 
tato rot. On section they should cut with considerable resistance, being 
brittle rather than otherwise. If sprouting has occurred it can be detected 
by a close examination of the eye or by cutting just under the skin,; the 
base of the eye enlarges inside as the potato sprouts, and such potatoes 
generally present a shrivelled appearance. Sprouted potatoes are unfit for 
use from the solanin which they contain. Viry gives an instance in which 
poisoning was believed to have occurred from this substance ; and Coustan 
mentions a case in which one hundred and one soldiers were poisoned by 
eating sprouted potatoes. The symptoms produced were similar to those 
of belladonna poisoning. Fed to animals, these potatoes produced the same 



THE RATION. 

symptoms. The quantity of starch present is an excellent indication of the 
cooking qualities, and also whether, after cooking, the potato will be wet 
and soggy or dry and mealy. This may be estimated by bisecting the 
potato, perpendicularly to its long axis, with a sliarp knife. TheTondi- 
tion of the cut surfaces as to moisture should be observed, and where the 
moisture is sufficient to drip when the cut surfaces are held at an angle 
with the floor, the potato will be soggy and poor when cooked. If the 
two cut surfaces be placed together and rubbed against each other with a 
circular motion, the resulting white froth will be thick and tenacious if the 
potato be of good grade, and weak and watery if of inferior quality. On 
pressing the cut surfaces together, the degree of richness of the potato will 
be shown by the greater or less tenacity with which the parts cling to each 
other. The best test of quality, however, is given by cooking. Potatoes 
affected with Phytophera infestans, or potato rot, are shown by the pres- 
ence of dark-brown spots, a peculiar flat mouse-like odor, and a reddish, 
marbled appearance on section. The nature of the fungus can be deter- 
mined by the microscope, if necessary. 

Potatoes are best stored in a cool, dry and well-ventilated place, and 
should not be exposed to the light more than is necessary. They should 
be frequently picked over and the spoiled tubers removed. Potatoes rapid- 
ly deteriorate in hot climates, and are best preserved under such conditions 
. by spreading them out in a thin layer exposed to the air. As mentioned 
elsewhere, they may be preserved in the fresh state by slicing and packing 
in molasses. On a small scale, the boiling of potatoes will keep them for 
some time. Cold storage, several degrees above the freezing-point, is of 
course the best method of preservation. 

Onions. These may be drawn by the soldier in the amount of 3.2 
ounces daily and are much appreciated as a savory and wholesome com- 
ponent of the ration, both as a food and condiment. The waste in prepar- 
ing onions is ordinarily about ten per cent. ; the average chemical composi- 
tion of the edible portion being as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fata, per cent. 


Total carbohydrate*, 
including fibre, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound. Calorie*. 


87.6 


1.6 


0.8 


9.9 


225 



One of the special qualities of the onion is the presence of a pungent, 
volatile oil, to which its characteristic taste and odor are largely due. 

Onions for army use should be firm and the outside leaves crisp. If 
they have sprouted, the fact can be determined by cutting them open. 
Dishonest dealers frequently cut off the sprouts and twist the outside leaf 
over the cut so as to conceal it. Onions should be free from defects, dry 
and solid. An onion pulled before it has thoroughly matured will have more 
or less moisture on the outside and be soft in spots. Overgrown onions 
are not desirable, being generally less firm and of poorer flavor than those 
of average size. This vegetable will stand a greater degree of cold without 
injury than jjill potatoes; if frozen, those thawed out slowly in a dark 
place are not much injured for immediate use. The white variety pos- 
sesses the sweetest and mildest flavor, but the better keeping qualities 
17 



258 THEOKY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

of the yellow and red varieties render them far preferable for storage pur- 
poses. Onions are very perishable and are best kept in a single layer on 
narrow slatted shelves, arranged one above the other at convenient dis- 
tances. 

Tomatoes. Canned tomatoes are wisely included in both the service 
and travel rations their issue in the latter being allowed after four days' 
continuous travel. In the former ration the quantity is 4.8 ounces, while 
in the latter the daily allowance is 16 ounces. The tomato is a better 
antiscorbutic than the potato. Its acid is malic, which it holds free at 
about .3 per cent, and about as much in combination with bases. The 
tomato is excessively watery, and, as ordinarily supplied, the solid constit- 
uents of the canned article, after straining, vary from fifteen to fifty per 
cent. It would seem as if some definite standard should be required in 
this respect ; for where the fluids are in high proportion the Government 
pays for the purchase and transportation of water and the soldier is large- 
ly defrauded of an article with which it was intended he should be well 
supplied. The practice of accepting the lowest bid, and requiring no 
definite standard for the goods, is naturally fatal to quality and forces 
articles of the best character out of competition. Under the ordinary proc- 
esses of canning a considerable number of cans undergo fermentation and 
are spoiled. It has recently been found that this fermentation can be 
almost wholly prevented by processing at a high temperature with super- 
heated steam, and without deterioration in quality of the contents. Re- 
processed cans are always of poor quality. They are those in which leaks 
are detected after processing, and are known by the presence of an undue 
amount of solder along the seams. Canned tomatoes stand extremes of 
climate without apparent deterioration. The average chemical composition 
cf canned tomatoes is as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fats, per cent. 


Total carbohydrates. 
Including fibre, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound. Calories. 


94.0 


1.2 


0.3 


4.0 


105 



Other Vegetables. Besides potatoes, canned tomatoes and onions, 
the legal ration provides for the issue of "4.8 ounces of other fresh vege- 
tables not canned, when they can be obtained in the vicinity of the post 
or transported in a wholesome condition from a distance." As a matter of 
fact, advantage is rarely taken of this provision within the limits of the 
United States, and such other vegetables as are used by troops are either 
derived from post gardens or are purchased from the company funds. 
At stations where transportation facilities are poor or the facilities for 
keeping fresh vegetables are inadequate, particularly in the tropics, it may 
frequently be necessary to rely upon vegetables grown in the vicinity. 
For the convenience of sanitary officers, therefore, the averages of analyses 
of the vegetables not specifically named in the ration, but liable to enter to 
some extent into the subsistence of troops, are here inserted. In preparing 
fresh vegetables for the table a waste of fifteen to twenty per cent, should 
ordinarily be expected. 



THE RATION. 



Article. 


Water, 
per cent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Fata, 

PIT cent. 


Carbohydrate*. 

f iK-linlmtr niin-, 
pwwnu 


Fuel value 
PIT pound. 
Calorie*. 


Beaus, butter, greeii, edible portion 
Beaus, lima, fresh, edible portion . . 
Beans, string, fresh, edible portion. 
Bees, fresh, t edible portion 


58. 9 
68.5 
89.2 
87 5 


9.4 
7.1 
2.8 
1 8 


0.6 
.7 
.8 
1 


29.1 
22.0 
7.4 

97 


740 
570 
195 


Cabbage fresh, edible portion 


91 5 


1 6 




K a 


1U 

i i - 


Carrots, edible portion 


88 2 


i i 




II 


ui 


Cauliflower, edible portion 


92 3 


1 8 


5 


47 


i in 


Corn, green, edible portion 


75 4 


8 1 


i i 


10 7 


Ain 


Greens, beet, cooked 


89 5 


2 2 


a 4 


> 


i ", 


Lettuce 


94 7 


1 2 




9 'i 




Parsnips, edible portion 


83 


1 6 


5 


1. 1 


tlM) 


Sweet potatoes, edible portion 


690 


1 8 


7 


24 4 


17O 


Radishes, edible portion 


91 8 


1 3 


1 


r> H 


10% 


Sauerkraut 


88 8 


1 7 


5 


: { H 




Spinach, fresh 


92 3 


2 1 


3 


8 2 


i in 


Tomatoes, fresh 


943 


9 


4 


3 9 


IM-, 


Turnips, edible portion 


89.6 


1 8 


2 


8 1 


Ixl 


Yams, edible portion 


71.86 


1 


2 


25 05 


500 


Ripe bananas, edible portion. Used 
as a vegetable in the tropics 


75.8 


1.8 


06 


22 


100 















Cooking of Fresh Vegetables. Vegetables shrink in bulk about 
ten per cent, in cooking, besides which a certain proportion of the nutri- 
tive principles are lost in the process. The latter is a matter of far greater 
importance than is commonly appreciated. 

Vegetables contain a large amount of water, dissolved in which are con- 
siderable amounts of soluble inorganic compounds or salts, and more or less 
soluble organic substances such as sugar and soluble protein compounds. 
The solid matter of vegetables consists largely of microscopic cells tilled 
with starch grains. The walls of these cells are composed of cellulose or 
woody fibre, which resists the action of the digestive juices ; and it is for 
this reason that the raw vegetable is, as a rule, unfit for food. When, 
however, heat is applied, the starch grains absorb the water from the juice, 
swell up and finally burst the cell walls, so that the texture of the vege- 
table becomes soft and the nutrients are easily attacked by the digestive 
juices. 

Heat is usually applied by boiling, frying or baking, the first being the 
method most commonly used. During the process of boiling vegetables 
there is, of course, more or less opportunity for nutrients soluble in water 
to be dissolved out and lost. Indeed, much of this matter is already in a 
state of solution in the juices. The nutrients which would be liable to 
suffer such loss are, as mentioned above, some of the protein compounds, 
some of the mineral constituents, such as salts of potassium and sodium, 
and especially the sugars. The starch would suffer no appreciable loss in 
this way, owing to its insolubility. It might, however, be removed me- 
chanically from the soft cooked vegetables under certain conditions. Of 
the protein compounds, those which are of the most value to the body are 
coagulated and thus rendered insoluble before the boiling-point is reached, 
behaving lift* the white of an egg under similar conditions. The loss of 
the more valuable portion of the protein would, therefore, take place before 
the water became sufficiently hot to cause coagulation. Some nitrogenous 



260 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 88. Cells of a Raw Potato, with Starch 
Grains In Natural Condition. 



substances are, however, soluble in water at all temperatures, and would 
thus be liable to loss during the entire process of boiling. Sugar is pres- 
ent in considerable quantity in some vegetables, and in such cases the loss 

of nutrients may amount to a considera- 
ble fraction of the original nutritive 
value. 

With reference to potatoes, it was 
recently found by Snyder and Bryant 
that, when peeled and soaked for 
several hours before boiling, the loss 
amounted to fifty -two per cent, of the 
total nitrogenous matter and thirty- 
eight per cent, of the mineral sub- 
stances ; when the potatoes were peeled 
and put into cold water, which was 
then brought to the boiling-point as 
soon as possible, the loss was much 
less, amounting to about sixteen per 
cent, of the nitrogenous matter and 
nineteen per cent, of the mineral sub- 
stances. Potatoes peeled and placed at once in boiling water lost but half 
as much nitrogenous matter as in the preceding case, although the loss of 
mineral salts was practically the same; when potatoes were cooked 
with their skins on there was but a trifling loss of material, either nitro- 
genous or mineral. The character of the water, whether hard or soft, 
had but little influence on the result. In none of the experiments was 
there any appreciable loss of starch other than that resulting from the 
abrasion of the peeled potatoes during the latter part of boiling, when they 
had become soft and mealy. With reference to the mineral matters dis- 
solved out it should be remembered 
that these salts, while not nutrients 
in the sense in which this term is 
frequently used, are nevertheless im- 
portant in nutrition. They are of 
especial value because of the potassium 
compounds which they contain, and 
are apparently necessary for health. 
The conclusions drawn from these ex- 
periments may be briefly summarized 
as follows: 

In order to obtain the highest food 
value, potatoes should not be peeled 
before cooking. 

When the potatoes are peeled be- 
fore cooking, the least loss is sustained 
by putting them directly into hot 

water and boiling as rapidly as possible. Even then the loss is very con- 
siderable. 

With reference to the effect upon boiling of roots, such as carrots, beets 
and parsnips, investigation upon the first named vegetable, cut into wedge- 




no. 88. Cells of a Thoroughly Boiled Potato. 



THE RATION. 



261 



shaped pieces averaging about four inches in length, showed a total loss in 
the smaller pieces amounting to thirty per cent, of the total food material ; 
or more specifically, to forty-two per cent, of the nitrogenous matter, 
twenty-six per cent, of the sugar and forty-seven per cent, of the mineral 
constituents. It appeared to make comparatively little difference whether 
the water used was hard or soft, or if it were hot or cold at the start. The 
medium-sized pieces lost the same amount of sugar as the small pieces, but 
less nitrogen and less mineral matter. As was expected, the least loss 
occurred when large-sized pieces were used ; but even then it amounted to 
one-fifth of the total nutrients, one-fifth of the nitrogenous matter, one- 
sixth of the sugar aiid over one-fourth of the mineral constituents. When 
it is considered that carrots really contain as much water as is found in 
milk, it is readily seen that with the loss of from one-fifth to one-third of 
the whole nutritive matter there is no great food value left in the cooked 
vegetable. The loss of sugar during the boiling of carrots is equivalent to 
nearly one pound of sugar in a bushel of the vegetable. It appears, there- 
fore, that in order to retain the 
greatest amount of nutrients 
in the cooking of vegetable 
roots, the pieces should be 
large rather than small; the 
boiling should be rapid, in 
order to give less time for the 
solvent action of the water to 
act upon the food ingredients ; 
as little water as possible 
should be used, and unless the 
matter extracted be used as food, 
instead of being thrown away, 
the loss of twenty to thirty per 
cent. or even more of the 
total food value may be pre- 
vented. 

Taking cabbage as a type 
of pot herbs in which the leafy 
portion is the part eaten, sim- 
ilar experiments showed that 

the kind of water (hard or soft) has more effect on the loss of nutrient* than 
the temperature of the water when the cabbage is placed therein. In any 
case the loss of nutrients was found to be very great, amounting to one-third 
the total nutrients when soft water was used, and two-fifths when the \yater 
was hard. The loss of the more valuable albuminoids was comparatively 
small, although the total loss of nitrogenous matter ranged from thirty-two 
to forty-six per cent, of the total. More than half the mineral salts were 
removed, and from twenty-eight to forty-two per cent, of the carbohydrates. 
In a cabbage weighing three pounds there are but four ounces of dry matter; 
the remaining two and three-fourths pounds is water. Of this four ounces, 
from one an<J*bne-fourth to one and three-fourth ounces may be lost during 
the cooking, leaving as much nutriment available from a three pound cab- 
bage as would be contained in about two heaping tablespoonfula of sugar. 




Fio. 90. The Compotdtion of the Cabbage and the lam of 
Nutrients when Bolted, a, Starrh. Miirar. Obre, fat, etc.; 
/), non-albuminoid nitrogenous matter : r, albuminoid nl- 
troKenom matter : <*, mineral matter. The hatched portion 
represent* the loss. 



262 THEORY A>TD PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

This loss seems to be unavoidable unless the cabbage is cooked in such a 
manner that the water in which it is boiled is also used. This is fre- 
quently the case when it is cooked with corned beef. In the Russian 
army the water in which cabbage is boiled is invariably utilized in the 
preparation of soup, thus securing all the nutritive constituents of the 
vegetable for consumption by the soldier and the same is true of the 
other vegetables used in the foreign services, in which soups and stews are 
the usual methods employed in the preparation of the ration. 

Of the other methods of 'preparation, frying presents the objections 
already advanced with reference to the cooking of meats, as well as entail- 
ing a considerable waste through peeling. As already noted, stewing insures 
the use of all the nutritive principles of the vegetable to the purposes for 
which it was provided. Roasting in the ashes, a common method of pre- 
paring potatoes in the field, is wasteful, since carbonization of a consider- 
able proportion of the vegetable is the rule. Baking is excellent, but care 
should be taken to select potatoes of the same size throughout, to insure 
evenness of cooking. The waste and loss by baking is small. 

DRIED VEGETABLE COMPONENTS. 

Beans and Peas. These belong to the Leguminosae, and in respect of 
their dietetic properties are broadly distinguished from other vegetable foods 
by their large amount of nitrogenous substance, called legumin or vege- 
table casein, which is probably largely derived from certain globulins and 
albumoses present in these seeds. The advantages of peas and beans as 
articles of diet are their richness in legumin and salts, especially those 
of potash and lime. Their disadvantages lie in their great indigestibility, 
and poorness in fat and sodium chloride. Rubner has shown that from 
about twenty-one to thirty per cent, of the nitrogen of peas passes out un- 
digested in the faeces, as compared with thirteeen and fourteen per cent, of 
the nitrogen of white bread and about seventeen per cent, of black bread. 
The existence of sulphur frequently causes flatus from the production of 
hydrogen sulphide. Still, they are most valuable articles of food and 
ought to be much used during campaign, as they constitute an excellent 
addition to bacon, bread and the cereals. Both men and beasts can be 
nourished on them alone for some time, and in fact, added to rice, they 
form a staple food for large populations of India and other tropical countries. 
When fat is added, as in the common method of preparing baked beans, 
they form an article of diet well calculated to fulfil all the nutritive re- 
quirements of the organism. The daily allowance of either beans or peas 
is 2.4 ounces, a quantity which appears to be amply sufficient. 

As too often cooked in the military service, beans are tough and indi- 
gestible and favor the occurrence of intestinal disorders. There is nothing 
more true at least for the field, where time for their proper preparation is 
often wanting than the old saying that a beans kill more men than bul- 
lets." This criticism, however, relates only to the improperly prepared 
article. To prepare beans, they should be soaked in warm water about 
twelve hours and then be boiled until they are tender, which will require 
about two or three hours more. No amount of boiling will soften old beans ; 
such should be soaked twenty-four hours and then crushed and stewed. 



THE RATION. 



263 



It should not be forgotten that neither beans nor peas can be properly 
cooked in hard water. Where such is the only supply at hand it sin mid 
be corrected before use, according to the method given elsewhere. The 
following table shows the average chemical composition of issue beans: 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fate, per cent 


Total carbohydrate*, 
including flbrr, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound, Calorie*. 


13.2 


22.3 


1.8 


59.1 


1.605 



The small white bean is used in our army, it possessing many qualities 
which render it specially adapted to the military service. It resists wee- 
vils and moisture best and stands transportation well. While small beans 
are preferable, this quality is not so important as uniformity in size, so as 
to insure evenness of cooking. New beans, if dry, are to be preferred, 
and can generally be told by their being soft when bitten through. The 
tendency of beans is to absorb moisture, and if sacked in a damp condition 
they are liable to become musty. They should be removed from the sacks 
and exposed to the sun from time to time, this not only keeping them dry 
but destroying weevils. 

Good split peas should be free from hulls or skins and be of a bright 
orange color. When brown in color, it indicates scorching during the pro- 
cess of kiln-drying. Ordinarily, one part of the dry pea equals, by weight, 
about four parts of the fresh pea in proteids and carbohydrates. Their 
richness in nitrogen makes them theoretically valuable as substitutes for 
meat ; but as a matter of fact they are not relished to any extent by troops, 
who ordinarily make use of them only in soups. Peas are much inferior 
to beans as a military food the latter partaking of the nature of a 
national dish and can well be dropped from the ration except for field 
service, when they should be issued in the form of pea-meal to supply the 
deficiency of protein in the bacon ration. The average chemical composi- 
tion of dried peas is as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fata, per cent. 


Total carbohydrates, 
including flbre, 
percent. 


Fuel ralue per 
pound. Calorie*. 


10.8 


24.1 


1.1 


61.5 


1.655 



Lentils are thought to possess laxative qualities and be more digestible 
than beans or peas. They are included in the rations of several foreign 
armies, including that of France. They are not a popular article of diet 
in this country and are rarely used as food by civilians, a fact which at 
once shows them to be undesirable for our military service. 

Rice. As an article of diet, rice has the advantage of possessing an 

extremely digestible starch grain. It is, however, poorer than wheat in 
protein, fat and salts, and is essentially a carbohydrate food. Alone, it 
cannot be made into bread, but it is much used in France in connection 
with wh<*t flour to make the very white bread which is in request in that 
country. It is said that during the siege of Santiago the Spanish troops 
were subsisted on bread largely composed of rice. While rice constitutes 
so great a proportion of the food of the human race, especially in warm 



264 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

climates, it is comparatively little employed in the United States. It is 
included in the ration in the quantity of 1.6 ounces, but is not especially 
popular with troops ; a fact apparently due to the usually improper methods 
of preparation employed in our service, it being ordinarily insufficiently 
cooked or else reduced to a paste. Rice should not be cooked by boiling, 
but be steamed until tender. When boiled, it yields to the water a con- 
siderable part of its nitrogenous and mineral constituents, in which it is 
already naturally deficient. This objection does not apply to the prepara- 
tion of rice for soups, in which all its extracted matters are ultimately 
consumed by the soldier. 

The characteristics of good rice are semi-transparency, freedom from 
grit, dust or hulls, and few broken or dead- white grains. Its average 
chemical composition is as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fats, per cent. 


Total carbohydrates, 
Including fibre, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound. Calories. 


12.4 


7.8 


0.4 


79.0 


1,630 



A good, clean, fresh-milled head rice is required for the army. Old 
rice has a yellow appearance, while the fresh-milled is clean and white. 
Mustiness is detected by the smell. Storage should be in a cool, dry 
place, the greatest danger being from weevils and moisture. Rice is the 
most important constituent of the Japanese army ration, being issued in 
the amount of thirty-six ounces daily per man, and constitutes the emer- 
gency ration in the same service. It also enters into the rations of the 
German, Austrian and Italian armies. Efforts should be made to popu- 
larize its use in our service by giving more attention to the best methods of 
its preparation. 

Hominy. This is included in the ration in the proportion of 1.6 
ounces. It is an article of food much used in the southern states, but it 
is not popular among the residents of the northern part of this country, 
from which latter region the military establishment is largely recruited. 
It is but little used by troops, and there would seem to be no valid reason 
why hominy should be retained in the ration as long as cornmeal is also 
issued. The average chemical composition of hominy is as follows : 



Water, per cent. 


Protein, per cent. 


Fats, per cent. 


Total carbohydrates, 
including fibre, 
per cent. 


Fuel value per 
pound, Calories. 


11.8 


8.3 


0.6 


79.0 


1,650 



Hominy should be stored in a cool, dry place. It is likely to harbor 
weevils in summer and to become musty in warm, moist weather. , 

Oatmeal. It would be much to the advantage of troops if hominy 
were replaced by rolled oatmeal in the ration. The latter is a substance 
rich in nitrogenous matter and is an excellent food for soldiers at all times. 
As porridge, which consists simply of the meal well boiled, it admits of 
various nutritive combinations, and while it lacks adhesiveness for making 
large loaves it can be readily made into small flat cakes which are very 
palatable. It is a valuable addition to animal and vegetable broths, and 



THE RATION. 

its issue in the form of gruel, to guards or troops performing heavy fatigue 
is much to be recommended. 

To cook rolled oatmeal it should be mixed with boiling water and 
allowed to stand and simmer, 
without stirring, for twenty 
minutes. This is practically 
the only cereal food which can 
be used with satisfactory results 
without further cooking. When 
no fire is available, if mixed 
with cold water, with a little 
salt or sugar, and allowed to " ^^>f a, 
stand for one or two hours, it 
makes a palatable, wholesome 
and nutritious food and drink 
combined. For this purpose 
the rolled article is preferable to the steel-cut oatmeal, as the former is 
already partially cooked by the steaming process required in its preparation. 
The average chemical composition of steel-cut oatmeal and rolled oatmeal 
is as follows : 





Fio. 91. Rice Weevil, Calandrta oryza. (a). Beetle: 
(b), larva. (Much enlarged.) 



Article. 


Water, 
per cent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Fate, 
per cent. 


Carbohydrates, 
an imimir fibre, 
per cent. 


Fuel value 
per pound. 
Calories. 


Steel-cut oatmeal 


7 3 


16 1 


7 2 


67 5 


1 HflO 


Rolled oatmeal 


7 7 


16 7 


7 8 


66 2 


1 WiO 















Oatmeal should be stored in a cool, dry place and not near articles 
that emit odors. It deteriorates with age and, therefore, the supply should 
be frequently renewed. Rolled oatmeal appears to keep better than the 
steel-cut article. 

Cornmeal. This, on account of deficiency in gluten, is not adapted 
to making raised bread without the admixture of wheat or rye flour. It can 
readily be made into cakes, or be boiled and fried; containing, as it does, 
nearly as much protein as wheat flour and much more fat, it stands in a 
high position as regards alimentary value for the military service. It is a 
common article of diet in the southern portion of this country, and when 
well prepared is usually much liked by troops. Its use in our service 
should be encouraged. Through the mechanical irritation of the intestine 
by its particles it prevents constipation. This same quality, however, 
operates against its use during outbreaks of diarrhoea and dysentery. Cora- 
meal, if kept too long on hand, or if not properly stored or cared for, is 
liable to become sour. It is also frequently injured by worms, these being 
of comparatively large size and of repulsive appearance. The average 
chemical composition of granular and unbolted corn meal is as follows : 



Article. 

% 


Water, 
percent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


IMK 

percent. 


Carbohydrate*. 
Including film-, 
per cent. 


Fuel value 

per imiiint, 
Calorie*. 


Granular cornmeal 


12.5 


9.2 


1.9 


75.4 


1,600 


Unbolted cornmeal 


10.8 


7.5 


4.2 


65.9 


1,545 















266 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Dried Fruits. These are a recent and valuable addition to the food 
allowance of the soldier, each ten rations including three each of dried 
apples and apricots and four of prunes. The daily allowance is two ounces. 
Dried fruits have a special value in connection with the field ration, since 
they act as correctives to a diet of bacon, hard tack and coffee in prevent- 
ing constipation. They are also antiscorbutics, and although scurvy could 
probably never occur in garrison with present food allowances, there is 
naturally a tendency to it in the field with the above limited diet. Dried 
fruits, if properly prepared, may be expected to keep a year. They are 
light and are uninjured by freezing, and when cooked a small quantity of 
the dried article will make an amount sufficient for many men. The aver- 
age chemical composition of the dried fruits issued is as follows : 



Article. 


Water, 
per cent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Fats, 
per cent. 


Carbohydrates, 
including fibre, 
per cent. 


Fuel value 
per pound, 
Calories. 


Apples . . . . . 


28.1 


1 6 


2 2 


66 1 


1 350 


Apricots 


29.4 


4.7 


1.0 


62.5 


1,290 


Prunes (whole) 


19.0 


1.8 




62.2 


1,190 















Dried fruits should be free from dirt, sticks and worms, and should 
contain a considerable proportion of sugar. They should not be hard or 
shrivelled, nor should the taste be musty. Prunes should have a glossy 
appearance, this disappearing with age. Old and stale prunes are fre- 
quently dipped in hot sugar and water; a process which restores the gloss 
but not the softness and smoothness of the freshly packed fruit. As 
prunes are not pitted, and as the pits are often as large in the smallest as 
in the largest prunes, the latter are obviously preferable. Good prunes 
have a thin, soft, pliable skin and abundance of meat of a rich, delicately 
sweet flavor. 

Fresh fruit, which may be noted in this connection, does not enter into 
the ration of the soldier; but much is nevertheless consumed by troops, 
either as individual purchases or provided from company funds. It is 
ordinarily a valuable addition to the dietary ; bananas and grapes being 
the most important from the standpoint of nutrition, although all are grate- 
ful for the vegetable acids which they contain. While sound, ripe fruit 
which has not been handled is undoubtedly harmless, that which is un- 
ripe, decayed or contaminated by uncleanly handling or improper storage 
is always unwholesome. To avoid outbreaks of intestinal disorders the in- 
spection of fruits offered for sale to troops, particularly by hucksters in the 
vicinity of camps, should be rigid. When intestinal disease is prevalent 
among troops, the sale of fruit, from unknown sources and by irresponsible 
parties, should be prohibited in camp or garrison. Fresh fruit, when "sup- 
plied from the company fund, should preferably be eaten by the men only 
after cooking, since by this way the clangers attaching to possibly unripe 
or contaminated fruit are avoided. 



THE RATION. 267 



THE SUGAB, COFFEE AND CONDIMENT COMPONENTS. 

Sugar. The authorized daily allowance of sugar is two and two-fifths 
ounces, a quantity which for ordinary use appears to be barely sufficient. 
Brown or issue sugar contains more water than the white, the amount 
varying from 4 per cent, in the better kinds to 10 per cent, in the coarse 
varieties. Its color is due to invert sugar, of which there is 4 or 5 per 
cent, present. The average chemical analysis of brown sugar shows 
95 per cent, carbohydrates, with a fuel value of 1,765 Calories per 
pound; white sugar contains 100 per cent, of carbohydrates and has a 
fuel value of 1,860 Calories per pound. The whiter the sample, the less 
usually is the percentage of water. The uupurified sugars contain nitro- 
genous matters which decompose, and a sort of fermentation often occurs. 
Mites are often found in such sugar, while fungi are very frequently 
present. 

When of good quality, sugar should be more or less white, crys- 
talline, not evidently moist to the touch, and should dissolve entirely in 
water or leave merely small fragments, which, on examination with the 
microscope, will often be found to be bits of cane. In this country sugar 
is rarely adulterated, its present low price protecting it from such frauds. 
Out of five hundred samples of sugar lately examined by the Department 
of Agriculture, not one was found to be adulterated. Sugar being com- 
pletely soluble in water, the presence of adulterants of an earthy nature is 
readily determined from the residue left after such solution. 

It should not be forgotten that cane sugar may be converted into dex- 
trose, a much less sweet substance, as a result of the change known as in- 
version, which takes place when cane sugar is made to unite chemically 
with water, as by boiling with an acid. Cane sugar in this case splits up 
into a mixture of dextrose and levulose, known as invert sugar. Company 
cooks should be instructed that more sugar is necessary in sweetening acid 
fruits if it is heated with them from the first than if it be added when 
the cooking is completed. This is because some of the cane sugar, 
acted on by the heat and acid, has been changed to other bodies which 
are less sweet. 

The great value of sugar in increasing the ability to perform work and 
lessening or delaying fatigue has but recently been recognked. Much 
work on this subject has been lately done, and the results all point to the 
efficiency of sugar in this respect. Harley found that when nine ounces of 
sugar were added to a meagre diet, the gain in muscle power was consider- 
able. The effect, though felt one-half hour after eating, was at its height 
in two hours. Very interesting also was the effect of sugar in delaying 
the natural coming on of fatigue, which had been found to occur between 
5 and 7 P.M. If three or four ounces of sugar were taken a short time 
before this hour, fatigue did not appear and work went on as usual. 
Schumbe^g, experimenting on this subject for the Prussian war office, says : 
" The practical conclusion to be drawn is that sugar in. small doses is well 
adapted to help men to perform extraordinary muscular labor." If the 
sugar is to be taken in solid form he recommends chocolate as the best 



268 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

medium. The application of these results to the food of soldiers who may 
be called upon for extraordinary exertion in marching or fighting is very 
evident; and in 1898 a practical test as to the value of sugar was made 
with soldiers of the German army during the autumn maneuvers, the 
observation extending over thirty-eight days. A number of men were 
given ten lumps (70 gm. or about one-sixth pound) of sugar daily, and 
were compared in various ways with men performing the same amount of 
work in marching and drilling, but whose food contained little or no 
sugar. The results were in every way to the advantage of the men using 
sugar. The sugar was relished during the whole time. On long marches 
it appeased hunger and mitigated thirst ; a feeling of refreshment followed 
which helped the tired man on his way, and none of the soldiers allowed 
sugar were at any time overcome by exhaustion. It was found that both 
their pulse-rate and breathing were less affected by exertion than was the 
case with the men consuming no sugar. On the basis of these results the 
medical officer making the investigation recommended that the sugar ration 
for soldiers be raised to 60 gm. daily, and that it be furnished as sugar 
for coffee and in sweetened food, preserves or honey. The influence of 
sugar on muscle exhaustion was further investigated in 1899 by Prantner 
and Stowasser. Before performing muscular work, 30 gm. of grape sugar 
were administered in weak tea. In control experiments an amount of 
dulcin equalling the sugar in sweetness was taken. The investigators did 
not know whether they had consumed sugar or dulcin. More work was 
performed when sugar was consumed than in the other cases. When sugar 
was added to a diet which sufficed for nitrogenous equilibrium, the amount 
of nitrogen excreted in the urine was diminished. In the opinion of these 
observers sugar is useful as a muscle food for those who have a single mus- 
cular task to perform, rather than for those who are engaged in constant, 
though severe, manual labor. Within the past two years, according to 
Abel, sugar has been much used in the training diet of athletes, not only 
apparently increasing muscular power and endurance but preventing stale- 
ness from over-training. During the recent war in South Africa the Brit- 
ish soldier received a ration of jam, four ounces three times weekly, which 
was said to be much appreciated. In view of these facts it is certainly 
much to be regretted that sugar has been omitted from the established 
emergency ration, since the evidence is conclusive in showing the special 
service rendered by sugar under just the conditions in which this special 
ration would be employed. There can be no doubt that about three ounces 
of sugar, combined with chocolate, would be a valuable addition to the 
emergency ration. 

Molasses and Cane Syrup. These are each issued, in lieu of sugar, 
in the proportion of two gallons per hundred rations. They are not much 
liked by troops and are rarely drawn. As a substitute for sugar the ratien 
of molasses or cane syrup is quite inferior. Analysis gives to molasses a 
composition made up of 25.1 per cent, water, 2.4 per cent, nitrogenous 
matter (probably not protein), and 69.3 per cent, carbohydrates; the fuel 
value per pound is 1,290 Calories. The chemical composition of cane 
syrup varies little from that of molasses. 

Saccharin. In this place it is convenient to mention saccharin 
orthobenzoic sulphinide which has appeared in the trade as a white in- 



THE RATION. 269 

odorous powder, three hundred times as sweet as cane sugar. Pure sac- 
charin is soluble in water, one part in two hundred and sixty, and has a 
faintly acid reaction; but lately an alkaline salt has been introduced which 
is more readily dissolved. Its flavor is slightly aromatic and its after- 
taste irritating only when the powder itself, or a concentrated solution, is 
tasted; dilute solutions have a purely sweet flavor. As one part of sac- 
charin is sufficient to give five hundred parts of starch sugar the same 
sweetening power as an equal jart of cane sugar, it is likely that adultera- 
tions of this character will be made. The detection of saccharin may be 
effected by extracting the dried substance with anhydrous ether. If the 
evaporated residue have a sweet taste saccharin is present, since all sugars 
and glycerin are insoluble in ether. According to the exj)eriments of all 
observers, saccharin is non-poisonous, even in continuously large doses. 
Since, however, it has no nutritive or stimulant value, its substitution for 
a carbohydrate in the ration is quite inadvisable and against the interests 
of the service. The alleged antiseptic properties of saccharin have, as a 
matter of fact, no practical importance. 

Coffee. The allowance of coffee in the ration is one and three-fifths 
ounces when in the green state, and one and seven twenty-fifths ounces 
when roasted ; this difference representing the average loss of water during 
roasting. This allowance appears to be sufficient, especially since soldiers 
generally prefer to use their coffee in an extremely weak infusion. Its 
employment in this way should be encouraged, as it insures the use of 
a sterile drink. In winter the heat given out by steaming hot coffee is 
valuable and permits of a certain quantity of food being used for pur- 
poses of energy, which otherwise would be devoted to the maintenance 
of body temperature. In summer, coffee supplies in a safe form the 
fluid necessary in the production of perspiration, and when carried in 
the canteen on the march it proves an efficient substitute for water and 
is valuable for its directly stimulating projierties. As an article of the 
ration it is indispensable, and in our service is much preferred by the men 
to tea. 

When supplied in the fresh bean, coffee keeps well and is not sub- 
jected to adulteration except in rare cases. Hence it is in this form that 
it should be purchased for army use. Sometimes coffee contains black, 
mouldy and worm-eaten kernels, and such samples should obviously be re- 
jected. In the ground and roasted state it is frequently adulterated with 
chicory, the dried and powdered root of the wild endive; this adulteration 
is not injurious to health and the flavor of coffee sophisticated in this 
manner is even preferred by some. In the Belgian army it is even inten- 
tionally mixed, in equal parts, with the coffee to be issued. The Govern- 
ment, however, should receive the pure article for which it pays a full 
price, and the soldier is entitled to the full benefit of the stimulant quali- 
ties so valuable in the field present in coffee and wanting in chicory. 
A number of tests have been proposed for the detection of the latter sub- 
stance; of these the fact that when thrown into water, chicory rapidly 
sinks and colors the liquid brown, while coffee floats and does not leave 
any color, may be used to advantage by the sanitary officer. If additional 
evidence be required, the microscope may be used, the characteristic cells 
and dotted ducts of chicory being at once apparent, while the long cells of 



270 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



the testa of the coffee berry are marked and the interior contains an irregu- 
lar areolar tissue containing light or dark yellow angular masses and oil 
globules. The appearance of coffee is not necessarily a reliable index of 
its quality, and a sample should always be roasted, ground and made into 
an infusion. The latter should be tested for odor as soon as practicable 
and by taste as soon as cool enough for the purpose. After standing a 
little while, the odor and taste should again be noted. This test is best 
made comparative by making a control experiment at the same time with 
coffee of known good quality. 

Care should be taken that the coffee beans in a sample are of the same 
size ; since, in roasting, the small grains may be carbonized before the larger 

ones become sufficiently parched. 
The extent to which coffee is roast- 
ed materially influences the amount 
of matter susceptible of extraction. 
When roasted to a reddish-brown 
color and subjected to boiling water, 
Pavy found that twenty -five per 
cent, could be extracted as against 
nineteen per cent, when the roast- 
ing was carried on to a chestnut- 
brown color. All coffees improve 
with age and should be at least one 
year old before being used. They 
require dry, well-ventilated stor- 
age, and, as they readily absorb 
odors, should not be 'placed in 
proximity to articles possessing a 
strong odor. When ground, coffee 

does not keep well, especially in hot, moist climates. Ground coffee 
should always be put up in tight containers. When coffee has been 
long roasted and is hence a bit stale, it is said that it can be freshened 
and much improved in character by heating before grinding. 

In the field the disadvantages of coffee are its bulk and the ease with 
which the roasted and ground berry is lost from the haversack and parts 
with its aromatic constituents. The issue of the green berry in the field, 
as was the case during the siege of Santiago, is often of almost no utility ; 
since where the soldier is provided merely with his mess kit the proper 
roasting and grinding of the berries is practically beyond his powers. 

As prepared in our service, coffee is often not an infusion but an over- 
boiled decoction, and sometimes contains considerable charcoal due to care- 
lessness in roasting. Some company cooks habitually boil their coffee and 
leave it on the fire for several hours, a practice destructive to its good 
qualities. In cool climates it is of advantage to moisten the ground coffee 
and let it stand over night before infusing. In this way the full quality 
of the berry is said to be extracted to best advantage. For the preparation 
of coffee an excellent form of apparatus is used in the French army which 
should be adopted in our service. By its use it is said to be practically 
impossible to prepare coffee of any but excellent quality. As shown in 
the accompanying illustration, the water in the lower reservoir of the ap- 




Fio. 93. Section of Coffee Bean. Enlarged, Show- 
ing long cells of the testa In the berry. (After 
Notter and Firth.) 



THE RATION. 



271 




3, 





FIG. 98. Coffee Percolator. 



paratus is forced up through the central pipe and sprayed over the ground 
coffee resting on the upper perforated shelf; it then trickles through the 
coffee into the 
upper reservoir 
and is returned 
to the lower res- 
ervoir to re- 
place the water 
forced out b y 
ebullition by a 
pipe discharging 
near the bottom. 
While boiling is 
maintained i n 
the apparatus 
the percolation 
through the 
ground coffee is 
thus continuous. 
By this method 
the necessity of 
clarifying with 
egg shells, fish 
skin, cold water 
or other means 

is avoided. It is sometimes of advantage, with ordinary pots, to place 
the ground coffee in a thin muslin bag before adding to the water. 

Tea. As issued to troops, tea leaves are curled ; but they assume their 
original appearance when placed in hot water, and show their character- 
istic shape and structure. The border of the leaf is serrated nearly, though 
not quite, to the stalk ; the primary veins run out from 
the mid -rib nearly to the border and then turn in, so 
that a distinct space is left between them and the 
border. The leaf may vary in point of size and shape, 
being sometimes broader and sometimes long and nar- 
row. In general, the larger the leaf the weaker will be 
the infusion and the less the value. A knowledge of 
the structure of the tea leaf is of importance, since a 
common method of adulteration consists in the addi- 
tion of the leaves of the aloe and willow, which have 
a superficial resemblance to those of the tea plant. 
Such adulteration naturally alters the flavor of the tea. 
A common method of falsification, also, consists in the 
addition of old or exhausted tea leaves, these being 
given a natural color by artificial means and then dried. 
Such coloration, which is produced by several methods, 
gives rise tg.a dirty scum which forms on the surface of the infusion and 
often imparts a somewhat greasy appearance and feeling to the leaves. If 
an infusion of such tea be strained through cloth, some of the coloring 
matter will be retained on the fabric. The total soluble matters obtain- 




Fio. 94. Tea Leaf. 
(After Notter and 
Firth.) 



272 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

able from tea are a ready and convenient index of its quality. In general, 
with a good tea a weighed quantity infused with an excess of distilled 
water should yield, on evaporation of the infusion, a residue possessing 
thirty per cent, of the weight of the quantity of the tea used. Sand and 
magnetic oxide of iron are sometimes added to tea to increase its weight. 
These substances can be readily detected by the microscope. Like coffee, 
the quality of tea can often best be determined by its preparation. The 
buyers of tea appear to depend especially on the taste and smell of the in- 
fusion. 

In general, tea fit for army use should not be too much broken up or 
mixed with dirt. Spread out, the leaves should not be all large, thick, 
dark and old, but some should be small and young. In the best tea there 
will always be a good deal of the stalk and some remains of the flower. 
In old tea much of the ethereal oil has evaporated and the characteristic 
aroma is less marked. 

The allowance of tea, either green or black, is fixed at eight twenty- 
fifths of an ounce. This quantity is quite sufficient to meet the needs of 
our service. As compared with coffee, tea has practically the same physio- 
logical action but its flavor is by no means as acceptable to most soldiers. 
Tea lends itself admirably to campaign uses, its weight being about one- 
sixth that of coffee and it having the further advantage of small bulk. A 
water-proof covering is necessary for its carriage in the field, and for this 
purpose tea is much used in the German service in small tablets, wrapped 
in paraffined paper. When improperly made or allowed to stand, tea be- 
comes bitter from the tannin which it contains ; and the latter substance 
also attacks iron. When carried in the canteen this action is marked. 
Tea is best made in scrupulously clean, vessels with no exposed iron, and 
should be prepared by pouring boiling water on the leaves and letting the 
whole steep for a few minutes in a covered utensil. If hard water must 
be used this fault should first be corrected by the method given elsewhere. 
Besides having the sanitary advantage of boiled water, tea masks many of 
the offensive qualities of water containing suspended and decomposing 
organic matters and its use for this special purpose may at times be of ad- 
vantage. Tea is generally preferred to coffee by Arctic explorers, and by 
hunters and trappers in the northwest. It is much used in the Russian 
army, practically replacing coffee in certain military districts, and is also 
largely employed in the British army. In the expedition against the 
Ashantis in 1876 the experiment was successfully tried of substituting 
tea for the spirit ration allowed the British soldier. In the French service 
tea is used only in the colonies; the soldiers, according to Laveran, ordi- 
narily regarding it more as a medicament than a beverage. 

Chocolate. This is a substance which, while too costly for garrison 
use, may with advantage be supplied, in the proportion of two or three 
ounces, in the field ration serving as required either as a food or beverage. 
It contains about thirteen per cent, of protein, fifty per cent, of fat and 
thirty per cent, of carbohydrates, and has a force value per pound of nearly 
three thousand Calories, or almost three times that of fresh beef. Its pala- 
tability and keeping qualities are admirable and it is very compact and 
portable, thus fulfilling all the requirements of a military food. Unlike 
tea and coffee, its stimulant properties are small. 



THE RATION. 273 

Chocolate is largely adulterated. When of good quality it should be 
compact, brittle and of a reddish-brown color. It should break in the bar 
under only a moderate strain and the fracture should be clean and show a 
tine grain. When worked into a paste it should be perfectly homogeneous. 
It should melt easily in the mouth, leaving no residuum, and should com- 
pletely dissolve in milk or water. Chocolate forms the basis of jwrt of 
the English emergency ration ; and as cocoa, whicli is chocolate with a 
considerable proportion of the fat removed, it is commonly used in the 
same army. Large shipments of chocolate were recently made to the 
British troops operating against the Boers in South Africa. Chocolate is 
not a common beverage in this country, and for long-continued use would 
undoubtedly become somewhat distasteful to troops and inferior to coffee. 
For field use, however, it has everything to commend it, and its great pala- 
tability would render it at once a pleasant as well as nutritively valuable 
component of the ration. 

Salt. The use of salt in the organism is extremely important; 
about an ounce of saline substances being necessary for the proper 
maintenance of nutrition. The chlorides generally keep in solution the 
globulins of the blood and other fluids, while at the same time they are 
the sources of the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice and materially 
aid in the solution of albumen. The sodium salts are especially necessary 
in a vegetable diet to compensate for the quantity of potash salts contained 
in vegetable material. The complete withholding of ordinary salt from 
the food leads to rapid disease and even death. Its partial deprivation 
caused much suffering among the French troops during the siege of Metz, 
inducing a peculiar lassitude and muscular weakness. Sodium chloride 
is a constituent of all animal tissues, and this fact was formerly utilked 
by the Indians, who, in the absence of salt, were accustomed to retain the 
water in which meat had been boiled and use it in the preparation of 
other meat. Considerable sodium chloride is dissolved out of meat by 
boiling, and water repeatedly used for this purpose ultimately acquires a 
a distinctly saline taste. 

The culinary use of salt to render food more palatable is generally in 
excess of the requirements of the system, and in such excess it must be 
considered as a condiment. The failing of nearly all cooks is to use salt and 
pepper in excessive quantity. These articles must always be within reach 
that each man may flavor "his food to his taste, and cooks should be in- 
structed to use the minimum amount of seasoning. The present allowance 
of salt, sixteen twenty-fifths of an ounce together with the salt present 
in the bacon and pork ration amply suffices for the needs of the sol- 
dier. 

In character, salt should be clean and free from foreign matter. Dis- 
solved, it should leave no earthy residue. The cheapness of salt offers no 
inducement for its adulteration. 

Pepper. Black pepper is issued in the proportion of four ounces per 
one hundred rations. This quantity appears to be sufficient, as it is a sub- 
stance by n^means necessary to the welfare of the organism and is em- 
ployed only to give a zest to food. It owes its value as a condiment to 
the aromatic oil which it contains. This oil is antiseptic in quality and 
undoubtedly has a certain influence in retarding acid fermentation in the 
18 



274 THEOKY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



digestive tract. Pepper also promotes the flow of digestive juices and 
stimulates peristaltic action of the intestines. 

The microscopic characters of pepper are somewhat complicated ; there 
being a husk composed of four or five layers of cells and a central portion. 
The cortex has extremely elongated cells, placed vertically and provided 
with a central cavity, from which lines radiate toward the circumference. 
Then come strata of angular cells, which toward the interior are larger and 
are filled with oil. The third layer is composed of woody fibre and spiral 
cells. The fourth layer is made up of large cells, which toward the interior 
become smaller and of a deep red color ; these contain most of the essential 
oil of the pepper. The central part of the berry is composed of large an- 
gular cells, about twice as long as broad. Steeped in water, some of these 
cells become yellow while others remain colorless. 

Pepper is one of the most adulterated articles on the market. Linseed, 
mustard husks, wheat and pea flour and ground rice are often added ; the 

character of these substan- 
ces can be determined by 
the microscope. Pepper is 
also largely adulterated 
with husks, ground cocoa- 
nut shell and mineral sub- 
stances. The latter can be 
separated by shaking with 
chloroform. The active 
principles of pepper reduce 
Fehling's solution, and no 
pure pepper should give 
less than fifty per cent, of 
reducing sugar on the ash- 
free substance ; cocoanut 
shell adulterations usually 
give about half that quan- 
tity. If the powder be 

covered with pure hydrochloric acid the true pepper grains become in- 
tensely yellow, and from these the other substances can be picked out. 

Vinegar. The vegetable acids are directly represented in the ration 
by vinegar, the allowance being one gallon per hundred rations. This 
quantity, though not large, is rarely consumed, and can with advantage be 
diminished by one-half and replaced by an equivalent quantity of pickled 
vegetables, such as cucumbers, onions or tomatoes. Vinegar is a valuable 
antiscorbutic and its use in any form should be encouraged. 

For army use cider vinegar is preferable, and this should contain about 
five per cent, of acetic acid. The quantity of this acid present may be 
readily determined by the sanitary officer by taking the specific gravity, 
the variation ranging as follows : 




FIG. 85. Section of Pepper Berry, Enlarged. 
and Firth.) 



(After Notter 



Specific 
gravity. 


Per cent, of 
acetic acid. 


Specific 
gravity. 


Per cent, of 
acetic acid. 


Specific 
gravity. 


Per cent, of 
acetic acid. 


Specific 
gravity. 


Per cent, of 
acetic acid. 


1,001 
1,002 


1 
2 


1,004 
1,005 


3 

4 


1,007 
1,008 


5 
6 


1,010 
1,012 


r 

8 



THE RATION. 276 

In addition to sophistication with water, vinegar is not infrequently 
adulterated with mineral and pyroligneous acids. Usually sulphuric acid 
is added ; this must be determined with care, as the addition of water may 
have introduced sulphates. The test consists in adding hydrochloric acid and 
barium chloride to the vinegar; the resulting sulphate of barium, dried, 
weighed and multiplied by .412 gives the weight of the sulphuric acid. 
The occurrence of hydrochloric acid is readily determined by adding a solu- 
tion of silver nitrate to the vinegar, with resulting formation of white silver 
chloride. Nitric acid is shown by the development of a red color on the 
addition of a few drops of strong sulphuric acid and brucine. Pyroligneous 
acid may be recognized by distilling the vinegar and re-distilling the dis- 
tillate; the residue has the odor of pyroligneous acid. Vinegar is also 
adulterated by many other substances ; but these will rarely come to the 
attention of the military sanitarian. In the examination of foods by the 
Massachusetts Board of Health fifty-seven per cent, of all specimens of 
vinegar examined were found to be adulterated. In many vinegars, espe- 
cially the weaker kinds, the minute vinegar eels, Anguillula oxyphila, will 
be found in great numbers. Beyond rendering the vinegar somewhat 
disgusting in appearance they are not known to exert any prejudicial effect. 
They are readily destroyed by heating to the boiling-point. 



IV. 

EMERGENCY OB RESERVE RATIONS. 

General Considerations. Celerity of movement is a matter of prime 
importance in modem warfare. Sufficient facilities for the proper trans- 
portation of supplies being often not available, or if available serving 
merely to hamper and delay troops, the question of the concentration of the 
ration to such a degree as to enable the soldier to carry a sufficient supply 
of food, and thus operate without transportation, for limited periods, at once 
presents itself. To this end much thought and research have been de- 
voted especially since the results attributed to the use of " Erbswurst " 

during the Franco-Prussian War but the preparation of an emergency food, 
in all respects satisfactory, can scarcely be considered to have as yet been 
accomplished. Much, however, has been done, and a vast number of 
preparations of greater or less value for military use, some of them con- 
stituting the so-caUed "iron rations" of various armies, are now on the 
market. Among these may be mentioned the various meat, vegetable and 
pea sausages, the meat powders, meat biscuits, concentrated soups, meat 
extracts and different compound rations made up of two or more preserved 
food-stuffs. 

As to the special qualities which should be present in the emerge] 
ration, it bhould be noted that such a ration must often be carried by 
the soldier for continued periods, and, as the military conditions under 
which its employment would be authorized are those in which mobi 
of prime instance, the first objective in its construction is to pr.-vi.l 
the greatest food value in the least possible bulk and weight 
same time a too radical departure from the accustomed food of the soldu 
cannot be made, lest the digestive system be deranged by the sudden 



276 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

change and this at a time when the physical efficiency of each man is of 
the highest importance. The keeping qualities required of an emergency 
ration place further limitation on its composition ; and a certain variety 
should be possible, not only in material but in manner of preparation, as 
sameness soon becomes distasteful. It must be palatable, since if it be 
disliked by troops it will be wasted and its theoretical value as food 
largely nullified. To this end a certain amount of condiments should 
enter into its composition ; and since the occasion in which its use is 
authorized will usually be accompanied by great exertion and fatigue, it 
should preferably possess not only nutritive but somewhat stimulant 
properties. It is essential that a fair proportion of the ration should be 
in a solid form, so that a certain amount of mastication is required and 
an undigested residue is left to keep the intestines operative through the 
mechanical stimulus which it provides. It is also necessary that the 
emergency ration should be a cooked, dry preparation, which can quickly 
be made into a soup or stew or which, in the face of the enemy or the 
absence of fire, may be eaten cold, with or without the admixture of water. 
The latter quality is one too often disregarded. The addition of water to 
such condensed food has the advantage of giving an increased bulk which 
distends the stomach and gives a feeling of satisfaction, while at the same 
time it promotes digestion. The emergency ration should as far as possi- 
ble be eaten hot, since heated foods are comforting and stimulating in con- 
ditions of exhaustion and there is also an actual economy of food where 
its temperature has been raised. This, though so slight as to be ordinarily 
neglected, becomes of importance where foods are restricted in quantity. 

An emergency ration need not necessarily contain the several nutritive 
principles in the quantities and proportion necessary for the maintenance 
of life and health during an indefinite period. It should, however, possess 
a relatively high force-value and contain an amount of reparative mate- 
rial sufficient to prevent undue waste in the body tissues during the short 
time in which such a ration should be employed. Any deficiency in the 
carbohydrates which should be the nutritive principle to be first reduced 
may be to a certain extent counterbalanced by the higher potential value 
of the fatty element present, not only in the ration but within the organ- 
ism of the consumer. The fatty principle, however, cannot be advanta- 
geously increased beyond a certain point, nor can it take the place of pro- 
teid in the repair of the muscular system ; and the latter, if called on to 
excess for the nitrogen necessary for elimination, ultimately becomes 
enfeebled. 

While reduction in bulk and weight is desirable, there is a limit, how- 
ever, to which this decrease can be carried out; and scarcely more than 
the removal of an excess of water and a considerable part of the indigestible 
material is possible. In practice, the dehydration and compression com- 
monly produced for the sake of concentration appear to affect the alimen- 
tary value of the substances concerned by influencing their digestibility 
and readiness of assimilation. This is especially observed in compressed 
and desiccated vegetable material and a sudden change to this class of 
diet will exercise considerable influence on the production of hunger, in- 
digestion and intestinal troubles. With regard to the use of foods con- 
centrated beyond a certain point, it must be admitted that the stomach is 



THE RATION. 277 

constructed with a certain capacity for food which cannot be disregarded 
in favor of any chemical formula which human ingenuity can create or 
theoretical reasoning devise. Each of the varied and subtle processes of 
digestion must necessarily adapt themselves to the construction and func- 
tions of an organ which has a vital as well as a chemical duty to perform. 
No prepared or concentrated food can relieve the stomach of any or all of 
its activities in that gradual conversion of a legitimate quantity and qual- 
ity of food which constitutes the normal and perfect digestion ; and the 
stomach must be properly distended with food of a sufficiently bulky char- 
acter, else its most important function is hampered. In concentrated and 
chemically prepared foods, sufficient importance does not seem to be at- 
tached to those portions which are normally passed off with the excretions. 
Such as are undigested and indigestible are generally regarded as a direct, 
loss, yet all these fulfil very important purposes. Something more is re- 
quired than complete digestibility and power of absorption in order to gain 
a full physical effect and retain health in a normal condition. 

Regarding the total weight of an emergency ration, it has been stated 
by Parkes that no great loss of body-weight or impairment of health may 
be expected to occur with a minimum daily allowance of eleven ounces of 
water-free food and a maximum time of one week. This statement may 
be considered as approximately correct, provided the food is properly pro- 
portioned as to its nutritive principles, troops are fully fed before being 
placed on such a restricted ration, and are subsequently allowed rest and a 
generous dietary for the replenishment of the systemic losses. Officers 
should appreciate that, while supplying a certain amount of force, concen- 
trated foods are ordinarily not sufficient to rej>air but merely retard tissue 
waste, and that, like high explosives, there are strict limits to their field of 
usefulness. A practical objection to prepared foods, as seen in many of 
the commercial emergency foods, is the ease with which adulteration and 
fraud can be practised. The quality of food can be readily determined if 
seen in the natural state, but when the article is ground up and mixed 
with other material no such safeguard exists. This objection, however, 
is somewhat lessened by the fact that prepared foods are intended for occa- 
sional use only and it may probably be made to disappear under a rigor- 
ous system of inspection and analysis. 

In most foreign services one or more emergency or reserve rations is 
habitually carried in peace or war in the equipment of the soldier he 
being thus accustomed to its appearance and. weight. This would seem 
to entail a useless expenditure of energy, and the far better plan for our 
own service consists in issuing these rations to troops only when there ia 
reason to believe that they may soon be required. The portions in which 
the emergency ration is issued should never be larger than the allowance for 
one day; since a package, once broken, soon deteriorates in quality and 
becomes unfit for use. The various components, especially the meat, 
should be kept separate. The emergency ration should not be used until 
all other sources of supply fail, and then only on orders from high author- 
ity. If possiole, it should not be used alone but should be supplemented 
by any other articles of food available. Once used, it should be replaced 
as soon as possible if the circumstances indicate that it may be again re- 
quired. Its maintenance while in the care of the soldier should be insured 



278 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

by frequent inspection, and its unauthorized use, should be punished by 
disciplinary measures and a proper stoppage against the pay of the of- 
fender. On the whole, not more than three or four of these rations 
should ever be issued at any one time, since they are at best but make- 
shifts and by their continued use the organism suffers. Ordinarily an 
unforeseen emergency, where the use of such foods becomes desirable, will 
last for but a few hours. 

The United States Army Emergency Ration. This ration was 
elaborated by a board of officers several years since, acting largely on the 
recommendations of similar and subordinate boards convened for the 
same purpose in each military department. Its composition and nutritive 
value is as follows : 



Articles. 


Quantity 
in ounces. 


Protein, 
grains. 


Fats, 
grams. 


Carbohydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel value, 
Calories. 


Hard bread 


16 


7076 


5 89 


332 94 


1 712 


Bacon 


10 


24.94 


218.14 




2,030 


Pea-meal 


4 


24.94 


2.25 


59.84 


368 


Coffee, roasted and ground, with 
four grains of saccharin 
Or tea, with four grains of sac- 
charin 


2 
.5 










Salt 


.64 










Pepper. , 


.04 










Tobacco 


.5 






















Total 


33.68 


120.64 


226.28 


392.78 


4,110 















The force-value of this ration is high and the available nitrogen is 
sufficient for the needs of hard labor. Divided in half, it practically fur- 
nishes the subsistence diet of physiologists. The components of this 
ration are put up in small individual packages ; the bacon being wrapped 
in tough paraffin paper, the hard bread in grease-proof coverings and the 
pea-meal in cylindrical packages. The other articles are put up in small 
water-proof packets. It is officially enjoined that this ration shall be re- 
sorted to only on occasions arising in active operations when the use of 
the regular ration may be impracticable ; that although it may be used in 
half allowance, it will not be so used except in case of overruling necessity 
and never for a longer period than ten days ; also that not more than five 
of these rations are to be carried on the person at one time. 

This emergency ration was subjected to a practical trial in the field, in 
1897, by a troop of cavalry; the command having been given a preliminary 
march of two days on full rations. The men were then weighed and pro- 
ceeded on a ten days' march, averaging about twenty-one miles daily. 
The route was through a totally uninhabited country where no food could 
be obtained from outside sources. Five full emergency rations were issued 
to each man at the start, and these were made to do for the full ten days. 
Careful records kept by Smart showed that during the ten days there was 
an average loss of weight amounting to 2.935 pounds per man; but the loss 
was not evenly distributed, some men maintaining their original weight 
while five men even gained in weight. The losses in weight were greater 
among the younger soldiers and those of heavier build. The muscular 



THE RATION. 279 

strength of the command, as shown by the dynamometer, increased an 
average of twenty-four pounds per man. A control experiment was made 
at the same time by an officer and nine men, who were allowed to eat all 
they desired of the regular established ration. This detachment marched 
parallel to the route of the larger command at a distance of about ten miles. 
Of this smaller detachment the average loss in weight amounted to 1.35 
pounds per man; the average strength, as shown by the dynamometer, 
increased by 32.8 pounds. From the above practical test of its value 
the sufficiency of half portions of the emergency ration, during the period 
of ten days, may be regarded as established. 

This ration has the important advantage of containing practically no 
articles except those to the use of which the soldier is habituated, and 
which are always available or kept on hand by the Subsistence Department. 
It contains no compound prepared foods and its proper quality is readily 
assured. It requires no special machinery or plant for its manufacture and 
is also comparatively light. On the other hand, it possesses certain posi- 
tive disadvantages. It is somewhat heavier than the emergency rations 
used in foreign armies and the bulk of the hard bread makes the carriage 
of five full rations on the person of the infantryman a matter of some 
difficulty. Further, only one article of this ration the hard bread can 
be eaten without further preparation by tire, and this may be a serious 
defect under many conditions. As already noted, sugar poooooooe a high 
value in the prevention of fatigue and the creation of energy. It should 
by all means replace saccharin in the emergency ration, preferably in the 
amount of two or three ounces. Sweetened chocolate might also l issued 
alternatively as well as the tea and coffee. Since half pillions of the author- 
ized emergency ration are shown to be sufficient for subsistence, it is diffi- 
cult to understand why this ration should remain in its present quantity, 
which is practically a double allowance. It would certainly api*ar to be 
of advantage to make the individual ration smaller. For the above reason 
it would seem that this ration, while excellent in nearly all respects, 
might justly be regarded rather as a reserve than an emergency ration in 
the sense that this term is applied abroad. As yet none of these rations 
have been issued and used in actual service. 

Since the chief value of this ration as regards energy is due to the 
high proportion of fat it contains, it is obvious that the method of prepara- 
tion exerts a marked effect upon the quantity of nutritive material con- 
sumed by the soldier. When food is abundant such a loss may be of no 
particular importance ; but it is intended that every portion of an emergency 
food shall be devoted to purposes of nutrition and no provision is made for 
wastage. When the bacon is fried to a crisp, the meat is reduced about 
two-thirds in weight and the fat fried out is ordinarily lost. If softened 
hard bread be fried in the melted bacon fat a greater proportion is saved, 
but the resulting combination is indigestible. The best method of pre- 
paring the bacon undoubtedly consists in chopping it into small frag- 
ments and boiling it in the pea soup. In this way there is no wastage. 

WithMie idea of avoiding the several practical fault* of the emergency 
ration just described, a board of officers has recently devoted much time 
and effort toward devising a combination of foods more adopted U> emer- 
gency purposes. Their proposed ration, at the present writing, is being 



280 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

given a trial by troops in the west. It is understood to be composed of 
two parts. The first consists of parched wheat, mixed with beef which 
has previously been dried in thin strips and then crushed into small frag- 
ments. A little seasoning is added. The mixture is very palatable and 
makes an excellent soup; though it may be eaten without any cooking, 
if necessary. The second portion of the ration consists of sweetened choco- 
late, which may obviously be used as either a food or beverage. This ra- 
tion, which it is proposed to pack in an oval tin having two compartments, 
will furnish 127 gm. of protein and has a fuel- value of about eighteen 
hundred Calories. The amount of fat present is small, and the fuel-value 
of the ration, for its weight and bulk, Buffers greatly thereby. Much of 
the protein is of vegetable origin and is hence less readily digestible. It 
does not appear that this ration possesses any special virtues over a num- 
ber of excellent concentrated foods now on the market. In its proximate 
composition and fuel- value as is shown by a subsequent table it is very 
much inferior to the pemmican and cocoa-paste emergency ration of the 
British army, to some of the Bovril emergency foods and to certain other 
preparations. 

Emergency Rations of Foreign Armies. Experiments are still in 
progress in the British army with reference to a suitable emergency ration. 
Until 1896, this ration merely consisted of a couple of ordinary cooked 
rations. Recently a compressed vegetable ration of unknown composi- 
tion, used with compressed tinned beef, has been tried. Bovril cartridges 
have also been tested, and it is said that a considerable number of the so- 
called "Standard Emergency Ration," put up by a firm in this country, 
have been used by the British troops in South Africa. The custom is to 
allow makers and inventors of prepared military foods to furnish samples 
of their products for trial, and officers and men are also authorized to make 
experimental use of such articles at their own expense. Pemmican has 
been much used by British troops in the field in India, Africa and else- 
where. This is a preparation of beef, with fat and salt. It is supplied 
in flattened tins about four and one-half inches long, weighing eight 
ounces. The method of manufacture is a trade secret. It can be eaten 
without any preparation, or can be made into beef tea, hash or soup 
by boiling with vegetables. It is said that it will keep sound for years, 
even after free exposure to the air. As shown by analysis, this prep- 
aration gives sufficient salts, protein and fats for emergency use. It con- 
tains no carbohydrates, and these are supplied in another part of the offi- 
cial emergency ration. This second portion consists of cocoa and honey, 
in another compartment of the can containing the pemmican. The net 
weight of the pemmican and cocoa paste is about nine ounces. With this 
ration, eight ounces of hard bread are usually issued for use in an emer- 
gency. 

According to Woodruff, the French soldier when in the field carries 
two days' reserve rations, which he is not allowed to consume except by 
order from higher authority. The components of this ration and their 
approximate weights in ounces are as follows: 

Hard bread 42 ounces. 

Rice 7 

Preserved meat. . 17 



THE RATION. 281 

Condensed soup < nttnrf1t 

Salt T 

Sugar 2 " 

Roasted coffee l{ 

The hard bread has presumably been replaced by the new war bread, 
but whether in the same amount is not known. The above weighs four 
pounds, ten ounces ; the daily allowance being one-half of this quantity. 
This is an unusually generous diet for emergency use. As in most foreign 
rations, the fats appear to be notably deficient. These rations are put up 
in two small sacks, So that they may be kept separate from the other 
rations. As the smallest tin of meat issued holds four tield rations, one 
of these boxes is given to every other man. 

The German foot-soldier carries an emergency ration sufficient for three 
days. This is not drawn upon except in cases of urgent necessity or when 
it can be at once replaced by a fresh supply. The cavalry soldier carries 
but one day's extra rations. The infantry emergency ration is as follows: 

Hard bread 17.5 ounces. 

Preserved meat .' 7 

Or bacon 6 u 

Rice 4.5 " 

Or meal 6.75 " 

Coffee 875 ounce 

Salt 875 

The above weighs two pounds, four ounces. The daily amount is but 
twelve ounces of water-free food, which is about twenty per cent, less than 
in our own emergency ration. It is undoubtedly a meagre diet when 
taken by itself, but it is intended for use during short j>eriods only and is 
probably also regarded as a base to which the food usually to be obtained 
in a densely populated country, like Europe, could be added. It is said 
that a modification of this ration, containing two pounds of hard bread, 
one pound of preserved meat and one pound of tinned preserved peas, the 
latter containing considerable fat, is now being tried. 

The Austrian army has several emergency rations. Of these, one is 
stated by Viry to contain 400 gm. of compressed bread, 200 gm. of preserved 
meat and vegetables, 25 gm. of salt, and coffee and sugar in tablets. An- 
other emergency ration used in the Austrian service is composed as follows : 

Hard bread 17.6 ounce*. 

Preserved meat 

Preserved soup 

Salt 2 

Each of these rations is obviously of extremely low nutritive value 
and suitable for use during brief periods only. 

Switzerland has an emergency consisting of 8.75 ounces (250 gm.) 
preserved meat, 50 biscuits (5 gm. each), weighing 8.75 ounces (250 gm.), 
and 3.5 ounces (100 gm.) of compressed pea or bean soup-powder. The 
biscuits are in a cloth bag, the soup powder is in parchment paper and the 
meat in a tin. This weighs somewhat more than twenty-one ounces witlu nit 
the packages. Two days' rations, weighing forty-two ounces, are carried on 
the person, being packed in a water-proof ticking bag. Two days' extra 
supply is also carried in wagons. The above is a very convenient and 



282 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

relatively nutritious ration ; but its weight is greater than our own emer 
gency ration, which it somewhat resembles except in the matter of fats. 

The Italian " iron " or emergency ration consists merely of fourteen 
ounces of hard bread and eight ounces of tinned meat. Two of these 
rations are carried on the person. The hard bread is. issued in large 
squares, weighing about seven ounces each. The regulations governing 
the use of this ration, like those of certain other foreign armies, provide 
that troops shall subsist upon it at certain periods during the year, so as 
to prevent the rations kept on hand for an emergency from becoming stale 
and uneatable. 

In the Eussian army a variety of prepared meat-cakes, according to 
Notter and Firth, are issued for emergency use. They consist mainly 
of finely powdered meat mixed with barley or peas, or oatmeal, or cabbage, 
or potatoes and mushrooms. Their use in the Eussian service is highly 
extolled, although they are admitted to be difficult of digestion. The daily 
allowance is about twenty-tive ounces. The Soldiers of the Japanese army, 
in the late war with China, carried an emergency ration of rice in a cylin- 
drical tin case strapped to the knapsack. The emergency ration of the 
Portuguese army is said by Viry to be composed of sausage, codfish, bacon, 
rice, biscuit, salt and coffee. The Spanish army, so far as known, has 
no reserve or emergency ration. 

Special Preserved or Concentrated Foods. A large number of spe- 
cially prepared breads are now on the market, most of which are in the 
nature of bread from which the water has been largely removed by heat or 
pressure. The desiccated bread of Balland is made by exposure to heat for 
a varying period. On wetting, it is said to take up about seven times its 
weight of water, while hard bread takes up only an equal weight. This 
bread is made of flour containing a high proportion of gluten. The com- 
pressed bread of Bernard has the shape of an ordinary cracker and a slightly 
brown exterior. The water is almost entirely driven off by heat during the 
process of manufacture, which is secret. It absorbs water readily. The 
cracker-bread (pain biscuite) of Faille' is a similar preparation, which when 
wet much resembles ordinary bread. The process of manufacture is also 
secret. Laignel's bread is ordinary bread from which the water is removed 
by hydraulic pressure. Much water flows out, but when removed from the 
apparatus the bread still feels moist. In a day or two, however, it becomes 
as hard as stone and after a year's time will still be found good and palat- 
able. Placed in water, it slowly swells. The pain de guerre of the French 
army has already been mentioned. In general, the various prepared 
breads may, in case of necessity, be eaten from the hand. Ordinarily, 
however, they should be softened in water, as they are otherwise masti- 
cated with difficulty. Many of them are excellent articles for field use. 
Allusion" may here be made to the so-called "pinole," a preparation" made 
by mixing three parts of parched ground Indian corn and one part of sugar. 
This preparation has been used in our service, particularly in the south- 
west, and has been found to have many good qualities. 

Among the preserved meats, pemmican mentioned elsewhere takes a 
high place through its nutritive qualities. It is digestible and wholesome, 
but is only fairly palatable. The unattractive appearance and insapidity 
of dried meat afford objections to its use. As prepared in this country, 



THE RATION. 283 

dried beef is usually cured with salt. It is thus far too salty for contin- 
ued use, and is also said to contain a high proportion of moisture. Canned 
meat is useful for the field, but is too heavy for emergency rations. A 
board of officers, however, some time since, reported favorably on canned 
roast or boiled beef as a substitute for bacon in the emergency ration, and 
small cans of preserved meat are used for emergency purposes in several 
foreign armies. The preservation of meats by various methods is discussed 
elsewhere. It may, however, be stated that it is extremely difficult to 
find a preserved meat, of small bulk, which has a pleasant taste and con- 
tains a proper proportion of nutrient elements. 

Many attempts have been made to utilize meat powders in the military 
rations of various nations, and they were used as long ago as the Crimean 
War in the French army. Meat powders keep well and are highly nutri- 
tious, digestible and wholesome. Such powders are stated by Notter and 
Firth to possess generally about four times the nutritive value of fresh 
meat with bone. They possess, however, a disagreeable taste and odor. 
These faults have been corrected to a certain extent in the meat powder 
prepared by RousseaU, which was reported to the French Government to 
be "unchangeable, odorless and tasteless, without diminution of nutritive 
principles. It is capable of being preserved for many years in a simple 
waterproof envelope. One part of this powder is equal to several parts of 
fresh meat." Among the various compound preparations made of meat 
powders, the proportions generally adopted are : Meat powder, 25 per cent. ; 
powdered vegetables, 50 per cent.; fat, 10 per cent.; salt, 8 per cent.; 
condiments, 2 per cent. 

A dried food which was favorably considered in the French service, 
about ten years ago, was compounded of the following ingredients : 

Powdered Articles. Grams. 

Meat 20.00 

Peas, lentils, rice and beans 80.00 

Pot herbs 5.00 

Beef fat 18.00 

Hog's lard 7.00 

Salt 9.00 

Pepper 04 



Total 189.04 

The food value of the above amount was said to be as follows : 



Protein, grams. 


Bats, jrranis. 


Carbohydrate*, gram*. 


Fuel value. Calorie*. 


83.72 


26.30 


44.08 


573 



In addition to their use in soups, meat powders are also made up into 
cakes with various flours and powdered desiccated vegetables. Hoffman's 
meat powder is a superior article, and has been shown to contain seventy - 
three pei^ent. of albumen, seven of salts, ten of water and one of hydro- 
chloric acid. Hoffman's meat cakes are agreeable, portable and easily 
prepared ; but if used for any considerable period the appetite foils and the 
digestion is impaired. They have been tried in our own army in connec- 
tion with hard bread, but were not received with sufficient favor to warrant 



284 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

their regular issue. Johnson's and Erdmann's meat powders are similar 
to other preparations of this kind. The majority of meat biscuits now in 
the market are, as a rule, nothing more than meat powders mixed with 
flour and water ; owing to the extreme heat to which they are exposed in 
baking, the meat in them is usually rendered valueless. Some combina- 
tions, however, appear excellent. Port, in 1886, brought a meat biscuit 
to the attention of the French authorities which was found to have many 
good points. Later, Scheurer-Kestner prepared a biscuit made extremely 
digestible by the addition of pepsin. In Germany, a biscuit is made by 
Schill which contains defibrinated blood instead of water. This food is 
highly assimilable. Another food is " Courousa," made by Jacques, which 
has been tried in the Eussian army. The meat cakes used in the emer- 
gency ration of the last named service have been mentioned elsewhere. 
A preparation made by Grouvel was tried in the French army several 
years ago, eleven ounces being said to afford sufficient nutriment for a day's 
allowance. Its composition was roughly 20 parts of beef powder, 48 parts 
of pea flour, 20 parts of fat and 12 parts of condiment. A recent prepara- 
tion tested in the German army consists of the " Kraft-zwieback," composed 
of wheat flour, fat and powdered meat, with a proportion of salt varying 
to taste. This is said to have given very satisfactory results in practice. 
"After the exclusive use of this food during fourteen days, devoted to field 
manoeuvres, without any untoward results, the men of an infantry regiment 
were able, on the fifteenth day, to acccomplish a inarch of 52 kilometers." 
The price of meat powders is somewhat high, and during the past few 
years then- popularity has waned through recognition of the facility with 
which meat of bad character could be used in their composition. 

The concentrated soups and meat extracts date from the introduction 
of Liebig's well-known preparation. Numerous articles of this kind are 
now in the market notably those of Armour, Wyeth, Brand, Kemmerich 
and others which exist chiefly in the form of fluid meats, essences and 
extracts. Meat extract, formerly held a high pkce in popular estimation, 
particularly in Germany, but it has been conclusively demonstrated that 
their nutritive value is practically nil. Indeed, these extracts are not free 
from danger when used for any length of time, and it has been shown that 
animals die more quickly when placed on an exclusive diet of Liebig's ex- 
tract than do those given no food whatever. These preparations, however, 
are not quite devoid of alimentary value ; but they act as stimulants, food 
regulators and digestive agents rather than as nitrogenous food-stuffs. It 
would be a fatal mistake to use these extracts, deluded by their portability, 
with the idea that they contain considerable reparative materials in small 
compase; they are essentially alimentary aids and not true foods. If 
used solely in that sense, they can be turned to very good account as 
stimulants after very great exertion or exposure. When canned roast' or 
boiled beef is used, the addition of beef extract to the stew will greatly in- 
crease its palatability, since it contains the substances on which the flavor 
of meat depends. Beef extract is now put up in the form of capsules. 
This is a convenient method of carriage, but when a liquid extract is used 
the moisture dissolves the gelatin and the capsule ultimately collapses. 

Quite recently beef extracts have been prepared, both in solid and liquid 
form, which contain a considerable proportion of albuminous material, and 



THE RATION. 

hence are true nutrients. Among these may be mentioned Wyeth's beef 
juice and Bischoft's "Toril "-a solid extract. The latter would probal.lv 
prove of value in connection with emergency foods. 

Among new concentrated food products, which 'may possess a value in 
connection with the emergency ration, may be mentioned tropon, aleuron 
nutrose, somatose, eucasein and caseon. These are all patented articles' 
a fact which seriously impairs their availability for military use. Among 
these, tropon appears to be of the most value. It is a light brown, almost 
tasteless powder of sandy consistency, made of raw vegetable and animal 
materials. It is not perishable, is not hygroscopic and is not soluble in 
water, but is readily soluble and digested in the gastric juice. It is said 
to contain 90.44 per cent, of albumen and weight for weight to contain 
five times as much digestible albumen as fresh beef. The analysis of this 
substance, as given in a subsequent table, shows its high nutritive value. 
Tropon has recently been given a practical trial in the German army by a 
detachment of one officer and twenty-five men. Special rations, wrapped in 
water-proof paper, were supplied by the manufacturers of tropon. Each 
man received three yellow packets containing one day's rations of tropon 
rusks and tropon chocolate, which he carried in his cooking utensils; also 
a round white packet containing two days' rations of the solid materials 
for tropon bean and pea soup, which lie carried in his bread sack. Dur- 
ing three days the men were to march, in full marching order, 30 kilo- 
meters each day and to sleep at night in the ojien air. The men found 
the tropon food easy of digestion and it kept them in good condition. 
Aleuron contains but about eighty j>er cent, of albumen, estimated on 
the dry basis, but is somewhat cheaper than tropon. Caseo'n and eucasein 
are made from the casein of evaporated and skimmed mUk, dried and re- 
duced to a powder. All of these articles can be used in soups, stews or 
even coffee. They can also be introduced into bread or crackers without 
altering their flavor as much as twenty-five per cent, of trojxm being thus 
readily incorporated into biscuits. These substances are all of undoubted 
food value and might with advantage l>e used to increase the protein of the 
emergency ration. Their taste,' when apparent, is not at all disagreeable, 
and their continued employment for several days, in connection with other 
articles, is said not to induce distaste for their use. 

Among the prepared foods the concentrated or desiccated stews and 
soups are very successful ; being fairly compact, palatable and possessed of 
considerable food value. There are numerous very palatable mixtures of 
cooked beef and vegetables put up in hermetically sealed tins, but these 
unfortunately possess the fault, as regards an emergency ration, of contain- 
ing a high proportion of moisture, probably sixty to sixty-five per cent., 
and thus being unduly heavy for their nutritive value. They can be 
made somewhat drier, but only at the expense of palatability. As ordi- 
narily put up, the can contains about one and three-fourths pounds of meat 
and three-fourths pound of vegetables. Foods of this character have been 
supplied bj^merican firms to foreign armies for a number of years. Simi- 
lar to the above is the Maconochie patent ration, now being used to some 
extent in the British service. This ration was very highly thought of 
during the last Ashanti expedition, and was reported upon as being far 
superior to other canned meats. In the recent Anglo-Boer War it was 



286 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

much used and was regarded as very satisfactory. For its weight, how- 
ever, its nutritive value is very low; and, while valuable for occasional 
issue in the field, it can scarcely be considered as sufficiently concen- 
trated to meet the requirements of a true emergency food. It is usually 
supplied in kidney-shaped tin cans weighing one and three-fourths 
pounds; "being five and one-half inches long, three inches wide and 
three inches high. It is arranged with two tin straps to fasten to the 
waist belt, and one side is depressed so as to fit the curvature of the body. 
It contains one-half pound vegetables, potatoes, carrots, turnips and onions, 
and three-fourths pound of beef or mutton. In small recesses in the bot- 
tom of the container are secured rations of salt and pepper and a key for 
opening the can. It can be eaten without preparation, or made into hash 
or soups. Of somewhat similar nature, though much drier and hence 
more concentrated, are the Bovril cartridges. The contents of these car- 
tridges are varied in their composition. The tin is usually divided into 
two compartments, which can be opened at the ends. The blue cartridge 
contains a mixture of beef, potatoes and other vegetables. . It is prepared 
by adding double the quantity of boiling water and cooking for ten min- 
utes. The red cartridge contains in one compartment a mixture of meat 
extract, pea-flour, bacon and desiccated vegetables, which is cooked by 
boiling ; in the other compartment the contents have a chocolate basis, and 
may be eaten boiled or dry. These foods are very palatable and possess 
many good qualities. They are compact and very concentrated, are readily 
prepared and their food-value is very high. Their proportionate composi- 
tion is also excellent, and, all things considered, the Bovril foods are prob- 
ably the best for emergency use now on the market. A board of officers 
investigating the emergency ration reported themselves as impressed with 
the good qualities of the "Tanty Ration," a preparation tried in the French 
and Russian armies. This consists of a soup stock thickened with flour 
and containing cabbage and other vegetables with slices of boiled beef. It 
may be eaten cold, preferably with bread ; and when boiled with two or 
three times its bulk of water it makes a very palatable dish. The propor- 
tion of meat to vegetables is said to be about one to seven. The amount 
of water in this food is so great as to render its nutritive value proportion- 
ately low, and it is not at all suited for emergency use. 

A drier form of material for the preparation of soup is seen in the cele- 
brated " Erbswurst " of the Germans ; this being originally a mixture of 
pea-meal and bacon fat put up in sausage-shaped packages. According to 
Parkes, the sausage as first used had the following composition : protein, 
sixteen per cent. ; fat, thirty-five per cent. ; carbohydrates, twenty-seven 
per cent. As a food the " Erbswurst " appears to have been over-rated. 
Parkes states that when used too constantly it was much disliked by the 
men, and also had a tendency to produce flatulence and diarrhoea. When 
mixed with water it made a palatable soup. As a result of the success 
which attached to this food, many modifications were subsequently made, 
and are now on the market. These consist, in the main, of powdered peas 
with bacon or beef fat and condiments, the whole being enclosed in a 
water-proof cover and issued as a sausage or packet. Some few also con- 
tain powdered beef. The sausage of Boissonet, tried in the French army, 
contained pea-meal, lean beef and pork mixed with lard. In general, these 



THE KATION. 287 

different kinds of " Erbswurst" are soon found to be distasteful, causing diges- 
tive derangements and at the same time lacking the sustaining qualities of 
fresh meat. Similar to these pea-meal sausages are certain improved com- 
binations, packed in tin containers, of which the so-called " Standard Emer- 
gency Ration," made in this country, is a good example. The latter has 
within the past year been used to some extent by our troops in the Philip- 
pines. It is put up in oblong tins, which are opened with a key. This 
ration is said to contain pea-meal, cracker dust, powdered beef, bacon fat 
and seasoning. It makes a very palatable soup, or can be made into a 
porridge and fried when cold. In an emergency it can be eaten without 
cooking. It has a high food-value, as will be seen on reference to a sub- 
sequent table. Its keeping qualities, as at present supplied, are not en- 
tirely satisfactory, and no small proportion of the tins are said to ultimately 
become rancid in a hot climate. In general, all the above preparations, 
while they yield the alimentary elements of a complete food, present these 
in such proportions as properly only to serve as food for a very limited 
time. Further, in most of them the protein is vegetable, l>eing derived 
from peas and beans. 'It is true that the chemical values of animal and 
vegetable protein are the same, yet experience shows the former to be 
very much more easily and completely assimilable than the latter. 

Improving on the soup powders carried in bulk, several firms have 
lately put compfessed tablets on the market, which are very portable, keep 
well, and make a nourishing and palatable soup when heated in water. 
The soup tablets made by the California Desiccated Focxl Company are 
composed of lean beef, beef extract and some vegetable material, usually 
pea or bean flour. They are seasoned and very palatable. The tablets are 
small, weighing less than three ounces. Those made for commercial 
purposes are reported to have the following percentage chemical composi- 
tion: Fats, 12.22; protein, 24.79; carbohydrates, 29.55; mineral salts, 
3.21. This company also makes a soup tablet containing more beef, 
and said to have the following composition: Protein, 47.33; fat, 11.11; 
carbohydrates, 20.7; salts, 11.11. The Knorr and Weidner soup tab- 
lets are successfully made in beans, peas and lentils, seasoned with herbs, 
pepper and salt; when desired, beef is also incorporated. The keep- 
ing qualities of these tablets are excellent. Each tablet weighs about 
four ounces. Knorr's pea soup is excellent, rich and palatable, tasting 
much like rich gravy. It ordinarily requires about ten minutes' boiling. 
The Weidner beau soup tablet is palatable, appetizing and nourishing, and 
evidently contains considerable beef extract. It requires too long 
twenty-five minutes for cooking. The Kopf pea soup requires boiling 
for'twenty minutes. It appears to be inferior to similar articles now on 
the market. Edward's desiccated soups and Lazenby's soups, though 
excellent for officers' use, are not suitable for general military purposes, 
being either difficult to prepare or lacking in nutriment. When pow- 
dered bee^is mixed with beef extract and powdered cooked peas, beans 
or potatoes, the resulting soup is almost identical with that obtained from 
the soup tablets now on the market. A beef combination consisting of 
powdered beef 150 parts, extract of beef 50, and peptone 50, is said to 
give excellent results. The most palatable soups are those in which the 
proportion of preserved vegetables is considerable. 



288 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Soup tablets are used in several foreign armies and appear to give full 
satisfaction. In the French army each tablet represents the daily allow- 
ance for a soldier, and it is said that a single wagon can readily carry one 
hundred and eighty thousand of these tablets. 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION OF SOME CONCENTRATED AND PRESERVED 

FOODS AND RATIONS. 



Articles. 


Water, 
per cent. 


Protein, 
per cent. 


Fats, 
per cent. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
per cent. 


Fuel value 
of 100 gm. 
Calories. 




7.03 
10.86 
8.51 
11.40 
9.51 
7.98 
6.45 
5.10 
14.50 
11.89 
8.51 
6.94 
14.71 
53.91 
27.45 
2.39 
7.25 
63.56 
76.59 
21.03 
7.83 
10.62 
14.16 
40.60 
38.29 
61.28 

52.93 
9.17 
66.01 
66.18 

5.65 

6.31 
1.00 

14.18 

45.00 
1.30 

27.71 
1.60 

41.66 

12.20 
1.66 

8.71 
4.49 


21.00 
17.50 
15.75 
21.00 
20.53 
16.72 
24.24 
8.30 
24.70 
10.81 
15.75 
8.00 
30.57 
23.44 
32.94 
51.70 
17.75 
15.30 
9.72 
24.10 
7.50 
10.75 
22.75 
49.69 
50.26 
31.05 

13.02 
88.50 
12.66 
15.48 

31.00 

18.75 
6.62 

21.94 

22.19 
7.25 

21.50 
6.44 

22.00 

46.75 
7.25 

59.38 
6.50 


22.20 
23.96 
23.38 
32.30 
3.66 
17.20 
24.76 
6.10 
2.50 
8.06 
15.80 
18.11 
18.77 
14.72 
23.60 
42.08 
39.55 
12.76 
5.48 
21.22 
4.50 
.50 
1.60 
2.87 

'5.83 

20.62 
.29 
10.22 
11.88 

21.65 

20.29 
21.36 

17.44 

5.35 
29.60 

15.13 

29.85 

4.47 

24.63 
28.97 

26.93 
12.08 


45.76 
35.74 
47.91 
27.40 
53.10 
42.10 
39.73 
76.70 
56.70 
67.94 
58.04 
65.58 
31.45 
6.12 
10.54 

28.32 
7.25 
5.88 
27.35 
72.67 
76.80 
53.58 

2.54 

10.58 
1.22 
8.83 
5.45 

38.35 

50.74 
69.44 

40.66 

22.40 
60.06 

80.99 
60.53 

27.00 

9.89 
60.19 

5.54 
74.68 


480.0 
441.1 
478.4 
498.8 
335.9 
391.1 
492.4 
405.2 
357.0 
397.8 
449.4 
470.0 
428.8 
258.0 
397.7 
603.3 
574.5 
303.9 
114.9 
408.2 
370.5 
379.0 
327.8 
230.4 
216.4 
181.5 

303.9 
510.8 
200.6 
215.7 

525.9 

519.4 
517.8 

444.4 

255.7 
559.0 

408:4 
550.5 

272.8 

514.3 
550.5 

641.3 
4627 


Erbswurst (Knorr's) 


Erbswurst (Moir's) 


P< j a sausage (Moir's) . . -. 


Pea cake (Neumann's) 


Bean cake (Schorke's) 


Meat cake (Hoffman's) 


Meat biscuit (KOnig's) 


Meat biscuit (Schill's) 


Meat biscuit (Dunmore's) 


Meat biscuit (Armel)is') 


Emergency ration (Woolwich) 


Army ration (Grouvel's) 


Soldier's ration (Moir's) 


Field ration (Morel's) 


Pemmican (Australian) 


Pemmican (Arctic Food Co.) 


Army ration (Maconochie) 


Service ration (Maconochie) . 


Courousa 


Pinole 


Pain de Guerre . . 


Pea soup (Lazenby's) 


Meat peptone (Koch) 


Meat peptone (Kemmerich) 


Compressed beef 


Nao complete meat food (Military Equip- 
ment Stores, London) 


Tropon (Tropon Works) 


Emergency ration (Tanty's) 


Beef stew (Franco- American Food Co.).. 
Standard Emergency Ration (American 
Compressed Food Co.) 


Standard Emergency Ration (American 
Compressed Food Co.). 
(A) Tablet 


(B) Chocolate cake 


Ration cartridge, pea, beef, etc. (Bovril 
Company) 


Blue ration (Bovril Company). 
(A) Meat albuminoids 


(B) Chocolate basis 


Red ration (Bovril Company). 
(A) Meat albuminoids 


(B) Chocolate basis 


Ration cartridges, potatoes, beef, etc. 
(Bovril Company) 


Emergency ration (Bovril Company). 
(A) Meat extractive basis 


(B) Chocolate basis 


Emergency ration, British Army. 
(A) Pemmican 


(B) Cocoa paste 





THE RATION. 289 

Desiccated vegetables were at one time a part of the army ration. 
They are still used in the navy, and are said to be fairly satisfactory in 
that service as substitutes for fresh vegetables. The military force sent 
against the Mormons in Utah is said to have owed its preservation from 
scurvy chiefly to these desiccated vegetables, when little else of an an- 
tiscorbutic nature could be obtained. During the Civil War they were not 
greatly liked by our troops, probably because of improper preparation. They 
are at present used in various foreign armies ; in the British army they are 
said not to be generally popular. In the Ashanti expedition of 1895 the 
desiccated potatoes and onions were reported as being excellent, however, 
and the men did not seem to tire of them. In this country desiccated 
vegetables are made by a large number of firms. Dried potatoes are sold 
in two forms sliced and granulated. In either case the potato is easily 
cooked and is very palatable. It should be soaked in cold water first for 
some time, then slowly boiled, or, what is much better, steamed. When 
used in soups, too great quantities should not be employed. Dried and 
compressed vegetables other than potatoes are also now prepared so per- 
fectly that, if properly cooked, they furnish food of excellent character. 
Analysis shows that dried, compressed cabbage contains the solids of seven 
times its weight of fresh cabbage ; while ordinary mixed vegetables, after 
desiccation, contain five and one-half times the solids of the fresh vege- 
tables. Beans, cooked and desiccated, are said to be excellent. As anti- 
scorbutics, dried vegetables are much inferior to the fresh article. Morache 
states that this is due to the fact that compression removes nearly all the 
salts and leaves little but cellulose. Still, where fresh vegetables cannot 
be had, the preserved articles are very much better than nothing. Dried 
vegetables, however, contain little nutriment for their bulk, and hence 
should not be included in an emergency ration, however valuable they may 
be for continued use in the field and the same also applies to desiccated 
fruits. 

For emergency use, coffee has been prepared in a variety of ways. 
During the Civil War it was made into extracts, mixed with sugar and 
sometimes milk. A little of this could be added to either hot or cold 
water, and did not require boiling or settling. These extracts are said not 
to have much of the flavor of coffee, were often adulterated with licorice 
or other substances and were not popular among the men, so their use 
was abandoned. Efforts have been made to preserve coffee, previously 
roasted and ground, in small hermetically sealed tins. This, however, is 
by no means a perfect means of preservation, since after a few months at 
the longest the coffee sours. The sterilization of the contents and the 
total exclusion of air from the can being impossible without ruining the 
coffee, the sealing of the package only temporarily delays deterioration. 
Coffee is also roasted, ground and compressed into tablet form. These 
tablets do not keep well and the volatile oils are soon lost ; hence they 
must be used within two- or three weeks at the latest. In the French and 
German armies, coffee mixed with sugar is issued in hermetically sealed 
tablets. Each tablet weighs an ounce and will make about a pint of 
coffee. In this preparation much of the aroma is said to be retained but 
Laveran remarks that these tablets "are quite inferior to the freshly roasted 
article, though very convenient for transportation." Experiments have 
19 



290 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

been instituted with reference to sugar-coating the coffee tablets, but no 
good results appear to have been obtained. In our own service no better 
plan has been found for the emergency ration than by supplying the fresh- 
ly roasted and ground berry in small packets, trusting to opportunity to 
use or replace the coffee before great deterioration has occurred. Tea is 
preferred by some for field use, especially in cold climates. In bulk it is 
somewhat difficult to transport, but this objection is removed by com- 
pression, the bulk being reduced to about one-third in the process. Com- 
pressed tea is said to be more economical than the ordinary article through 
the breaking up of the vegetable cells through pressure. Woodruff states 
that in using compressed tea the whole strength is given up to boiling 
water in five minutes, while a similar result cannot be accomplished with 
ordinary tea in less than five hours. A tablet weighing one-third of an 
ounce suffices to make three or four pints of a strong infusion. This 
article is excellent for emergency rations. Saccharin is used largely in 
tea and coffee tablets to give the desired sweetness of taste. For this pur- 
pose alone it is satisfactory ; but it furnishes no energy whatever and, as 
already stated, is much inferior to sugar as a component of the emergency 
ration. Cocoa is used in the English emergency or reserve ration. It is 
put up for field use with honey or sugar and milk, made up in the form 
of a paste, and its keeping qualities are excellent. It may be eaten as food 
or prepared for use as a beverage. It is palatable and nutritious and its 
use in our service is much to be recommended. Kola nut, in various 
forms, has been proposed as part of the emergency ration through its 
supposed properties of relieving fatigue and masking the sense of hunger. 
It has been much exploited in this country, but reliable investigation has 
shown that the slight stimulant properties possessed by the fresh nut are 
analogous to those of caffeine, and that this article has no practical value 
for the military service. Wine, rum and brandy are served out to the 
soldiers of nearly all foreign armies under the conditions in which the 
emergency ration is consumed. Their use in this manner would probably 
never be tolerated in the army of the United States, even under circum- 
stances when it might be of advantage. 

The Travel Ration. When troops travel otherwise than by march- 
ing, or when for short periods they are separated from cooking facilities 
and do not carry cooked rations, the following articles are issued in lieu 
of all components of the ordinary ration. 

Articles. Per 100 rations. 

Soft bread pounds, 112$ 

Or hard bread 100 

Beef, canned 75 

Baked beans, one-pound cans number, 33 

Or baked beans, three-pound cans 15 

Coffee, roasted pounds, 8 

Sugar 15 

After troops have been subsisted upon the travel ration for four consec- 
utive days, they may be allowed canned tomatoes in addition to the above 
ration at the rate of one pound of tomatoes per man per day. Uncon- 
sumed articles of the travel ration are not sold as savings, but are turned 
over to the commissary. When supplied with cooked or travel rations. 



THE RATION. 

soldiers may be allowed twenty -one cents daily per man for the purchase of 
liquid coffee, in lieu of the coffee and sugar portion of the ration. 

The chemical composition and fuel value of this ration, per man, as 
ordinarily drawn, are as follows : 



Articles. 


Protein, 
grama. 


Fat, grams. 


Carbohydrate*, 
grains. 


Fuel value per 
ration, Calorta*. 


Soft bread 


48.45 


6.12 


26928 


1 355 


Beef, canned, corned 


8947 


i.l 61 




NO 


Beans, baked (one-third pound) . . 
Sugar 


10.43 


8.77 


29.60 
54.70 


200 
220 












Total 


148.34 


74.50 


358.58 


2,735 













The above diet is obviously illy balanced and contains an undue amount 
of nitrogenous material for the carbohydrates present. The fuel value of 
the ration, however, is probably not far from the actual requirements of 
the soldier under the conditions in which the ration is intended for issue. 
The ration itself is not particularly palatable at best, and after a journey 
of three or four days it may actually become distasteful. This is a defect 
especially due to the lack of a suitable accessary food to eat with the bread. 
It would, therefore, be much to the advantage of the soldier if the addition 
of a small amount of fruit jelly or canned fruit was authorized. This need 
not be greater than a daily allowance of four ounces of jelly or half a pound 
of canned fruit per man. Such an improvement would add little to the 
cost, since the articles named are cheap and the allowance of canned 
tomatoes, presumably added as an antiscorbutic for long journeys, would 
thus be no longer required. An addition of jelly or canned fruit would 
also largely correct the deficiency of the ration, above noted, as regards 
carbohydrates. 

While ordinarily the travel ration is consumed for such short periods 
and under such conditions with respect to the expenditure or energy as to 
render its exact conformation to dietary standards a matter of no great 
importance, yet its use may be unavoidably prolonged by unforeseen cir- 
cumstances as was the case during the war with Spain and its evi- 
dent deficiencies therefore become a serious matter well worthy of recti- 
fication. 



CHAPTER VI. 

MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 

I. 
CLOTHING. 

ACCORDING to Poore, the main objects to be sought in clothing the 
body are to maintain the bodily temperature, and, by preventing the loss of 
animal heat, to diminish to some extent the demand for food ; to allow the 
chief heat-regulating mechanism i.e., the evaporation from the skin to 
proceed with as little hindrance as possible ; to allow all muscular acts the 
greatest possible freedom, and to avoid interference with physiological 
function, or any compression of the body, in so far as may be possible; to 
protect the body from heat, cold, wind, rain and traumatism. 

Uniformity. Since the soldier is permitted to have no choice in the 
selection of the clothing which must be worn by him, it becomes the duty 
of the Government to anticipate and properly provide for his probable 
needs in so far as they can be foreseen. Military clothing should also be 
practically adapted to the purpose for which it is intended, a common-sense 
requirement far too frequently ignored. Considerable diversity and multi- 
plication of uniforms is highly undesirable. In time of war the soldier should 
preferably wear no different clothing from that worn in peace ; and thus 
the military uniform should be suitable for campaign as well as fit for gar- 
rison duty, parade or other ceremonial. After suitability has been obtained, 
the uniform may be allowed a certain amount of ornamentation and smart- 
ness, since these qualities play a considerable part in attracting recruits 
and the satisfaction of a not undesirable element of vanity in the soldier. 
In the British army the privilege of wearing a showy uniform is recognized 
as being one of the most powerful factors in inducing enlistments. The 
cavalry regiments in that service are never short of recruits even when the 
reverse is the case among the foot troops ; and this is generally believed to 
be due to the more elaborate uniform worn by the mounted soldiers, since 
service in the cavalry, by itself, is much more arduous than in the infantry. 
Any ornamentation authorized, however, should be readily detachable, so 
that for purposes of campaign the uniform proper may be rendered incon- 
spicuous and severely simple ; and in the field no ornamentation should be 
permitted save such very slight modifications as may be necessary for the 
designation of rank. Uniforms should never vary from the standard pat- 
tern, so as to allow of a more ready and certain supply from clothing de- 
pots. The system of regimental uniforms was responsible for much hard- 
ship and suffering among the British troops in the Crimean War in spite 
of which the modification of clothing for the designation of various regi- 
ments and groups of regiments is still customary in certain European 
armies, while in nearly all foreign cavalry services the use of the regimen- 
tal uniform is even yet more the rule than the exception. State militia 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 293 

should possess the regular army uniform, devoid of special cut or regimen- 
tal facings, so that if called into the general service any deficiencies may 
be readily remedied from a common stock. While for convenience of ad- 
ministration clothing should be uniform for each arm of the service, this 
need not necessarily be so for the entire army. 

Cut. Military clothing should be simple in cut and readily adjusted 
or removed. Whatever be the kind of garment, it must assure liberty of 
movement to the soldier in all his members ; since if freedom of action is 
impeded by tight clothing an unnecessary expenditure of energy is re- 
quired and the efficiency of the soldier by so much impaired. The uni- 
form should be of comfortable looseness, j>articularly about the hips, arms, 
neck and chest compression of the latter being especially dangerous to the 
younger class of recruits in whom development is incomplete and the chest 
is enlarging under the influence of training and exercise. A tight collar 
presses on the neck and induces cerebral engorgement with resulting head- 
ache, vertigo, frequent interference with vision and greatly increased lia- 
bility to sunstroke. In this connection it is of interest to note that until 
the last generation the- regulations of the larger European armies as well as 
our own required the wearing by officers and men of a stiff leather or paste- 
board stock, two or three inches in height and scooped out at the chin, for 
the purpose of imparting an artificial erectness and rigidity. For the con- 
venience of the soldier, and the better carriage of small articles on the 
march, the uniform should be amply supplied with stout pockets. 

Grade. For the maintenance of health as well as comfort, military 
clothing should vary in warmth with the climate or season in which it is 
to be used. Insufficent clothing for a cold climate presents obvious disad- 
vantages, and special protection must be provided for troops serving in cold 
northern posts. On the other hand, too heavy clothing in warm weather 
is a powerful factor in the promotion of sunstroke and exhaustion, the lat- 
ter also markedly favoring the occurrence of infectious disease. Hiller 
found that during marches of about an hour's duration, during May, the 
rectal temperature in the fully equipped German infantryman rose to 39.4 
C. where lightly clad soldiers had no rise beyond 38.4 C. Soldiers should 
also be required to modify their clothing, from time to time, as much as may 
be practicable according to temperature, more especially as regards falling 
temperature. Inattention in this respect to climatic or seasonal variation is 
prolific of sickness, and the matter can often be advantageously regulated by 
orders. In the colder stations, where furs are issued, the command should be 
prohibited from wearing such clothing after the actual necessity for its use 
has passed. When in the field, also, as much of the outside clothing as can 
be comfortably dispensed with should be removed at night. The leggings 
and shoes should always be taken off, or at least the lacing unloosened, and 
no constriction of any part of the body during sleep should be permitted. 

Material. In the selection of the material for the uniform of the 
soldier, the chief points to be considered are its permeability to air, dur- 
ability anchthe property it has of conducting or absorbing heat. In gen- 
eral, it should protect not only against cold but also the rays of the sun, 
readily absorb perspiration and check its too rapid evaporation, and be as 
impervious as possible to wind and rain. For underclothing, loose tissues 
are preferable to compact textures, since they are more hygroscopic ; while 



294 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

closely woven fabrics are desirable for outer garments, since they are more 
durable and readily part with acquired dust. 

Wool is much the best material for the military uniform, since in a 
variable climate, or where there are sudden changes of temperature, its use 
secures for the soldier a more equable body temperature. While, taken 
fibre for fibre, it probably does not vary so much from linen or cotton as is 
generally believed, it is usually woven in such a way as to entangle large 
quantities of air in its meshes ; this, through its non-conducting properties, 
prevents sudden cooling or heating. Wool takes up water and perspira- 
tion readily and gives them off comparatively slowly, thus reducing cooling 
by evaporation to the minimum and regulating the heat dissipation of the 
body. Woolens are often fraudulently sophisticated in the process of 
manufacture, and their durability and heat-retaining value greatly lessened 
thereby. " Shoddy " woolens are made from old woolen rags torn asunder 
and respun with the addition of fresh material. Exclusive of cost, wool 
has few disadvantages, its main fault being shrinkage and hardening after 
washing. Some persons are said not to be able to tolerate wool next the 
skin on account of its irritating properties, but if its use be persisted in for 
a fortnight this intolerance will be found to disappear. 

Cotton fabrics are hard, durable and cheap. If smoothly woven and 
of a light color, cotton makes extremely cool garments for hot weather. 
If warm clothing is desired, the material must be loosely woven so as to 
leave large interspaces for the retention of air in the texture. As usually 
woven, cotton fabrics are comparatively non-permeable to air, possessing 
little more than half the porosity, of flannel. Cotton is largely unsuited 
for military purposes, since it cannot be safely worn next the body by 
those subject to sudden temperature changes, or liable to undergo severe 
exercise, unless the clothing be changed immediately after the exercise or 
some additional garment is donned to prevent too rapid evaporation and 
chilling. Cotton worn over light wool makes an admirable combination 
for warm weather or climates. Cotton duck sheds water excellently, pro- 
tects against wind and is a fair non-conductor of heat, but in severe 
winter weather it has the disadvantage of becoming so cold as to render 
contact with it almost unbearable. Canvas lined with blanketing makes 
a very satisfactory protection for cold climates. 

Linen is very hygroscopic. As ordinarily woven it is an excellent con- 
ductor of heat, and since it is readily saturated with perspiration it requires 
for the maintenance of health such frequent changes of garments as cannot 
be obtained in the military service. A new weave of linen, the Deimel 
linen mesh, is valuable for the amount of air held in its interspaces, and its 
use removes many of the objections formerly attaching to this material. 

Leather, with or without the hair upon it, is impermeable to the wind 
and keeps the body surrounded by a layer of warm air. It finds its' chief 
use in the military service, outside of the far northern stations, in the 
manufacture of the foot covering and portions of the equipment; for which, 
on account of its durability, pliability and practical imperviousness to 
water it is well suited. 

Rubber, oil-skin or similar water-proof material has a special but limited 
value in the military service for the protection which it affords against rain. 

Color. The choice of color for the military uniform should be based on 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 

the practical rather than the a-sthetic or sentimental, although unfortunate- 
ly the latter considerations are the ones on which selection is usually made. 

The hunter always tries to harmonize his clothing to his probable sur- 
roundings, and the Apache, in battle, endeavors to render his person as 
inconspicuous as possible. Among lower forms of life there are many 
striking examples of the powerful influence of color, as adapted to envi- 
ronment, upon the successful maintenance of existence. Grouse, snakes 
and other creatures closely harmonize in color with the local conditions in 
which they are found. Arctic hares, ptarmigan and foxes change color 
with the season, while the chameleon varies its hue with each change of 
surroundings. It should never be forgotten that conditions which govern 
lower life in the struggle for existence apply also to man in his wars with 
one another. At the time when infantry opened fire at no greater distance 
than one hundred and fifty to two hundred yards, color was not of so much 
importance, although even then of advantage in concealing numbers and 
evolutions; but to-day, with long-range arms using smokeless powder, it ia 
of the utmost importance to proscribe all colors which can 1*} distinguished 
at long distances and so furnish a mark for hostile sharpshooters. The 
readiness with which a color can be seen of course largely depends upon 
its background, it becoming less and less visible as the two shades approach 
each other. Thus a black object, indistinct on a dark background, be- 
comes very apparent by contrast if surrounded with snow. 

The results obtained by Gerard and Devismes, with reference to the 
visibility of targets of different colors placed at the distance of 300 and 
600 meters and observed under very diverse conditions of light and back- 
ground, are shown in the following tables : 



Color of Target. 


300 M KTKKS DISTANCE. 


CLKAR WKATIIKR. 


CLOUDY WKATHUL 


AT 

NtllHT. 


if 


x 
Sa 

V B 

21 


On the 
seashore. 


^! 
og 


Against 

I'lirttiwni k- 


Against 
stonework. 


jj 
I 

I 


tc 

I 


| 


i 

3 


! 


i 


z 


i 

I 


i 


A 


u 

x 


i 


Scarlet 


4 
3 
2 
4 

7 
7 


4 
5 
4 
1 

7 
7 


8 
4 
8 
2 

7 
6 


2 
4 

7 

1 


5 

8 
1 
6 

7 


4 
8 
2 
2 

7 
6 


4 
3 
2 
1 

7 
6 


8 
4 
5 
1 

6 

7 


8 

4 
8 
2 
7 
6 


4 
8 
2 
1 
5 
6 


4 
5 
6 

8 
8 
8 


8 
7 
6 
8 
8 
8 


4 

8 
8 
1 
5 
6 


6 

8 
8 
8 
8 
8 


8 

4 
4 
2 
6 
6 


8 

4 
4 
J 
6 
7 


4 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 


5 

4 
4 
8 
8 
8 


Green 


Dark blue 
White 


Gray 


Ashy -brown .... 







{ 


HO MKTU8 


DM \m > 






Color of Target. 


Open 
country. 


Rocky 
country. 


(III lh- 

Mi :.-. 


over 
water. 


Against 

.-.in;.- 
works. 


ts 

work. 


gcarlet . 


4 


5 


8 


5 


5 


4 




8 


4 


5 


4 


4 


8 




2 


8 


4 


5 


8 


2 


White 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


8 


Gray . 


6 


8 


7 


8 


8 


7 




7 


8 


6 


8 


8 


1 

















(The number 1 designates the color seen the most readily and the number 7 that seen 
least readily . The number 8 signifies that the target of that color could not be Been at all. 



29G THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



According to the above figures, the arrangement of colors in the order of 
their conspicuousness, averaged under the various conditions in which the 
experiments were carried out, is as follows : 



White (most conspicuous) 2.82 

Dark blue 3.75 

Scarlet.. . 3.91 



Green 4.08 

Gray 6.87 

Ashy -brown (least conspicuous) 6.91 



From this it is seen that under all conditions the United States army blue 
draws fire about twice as readily as the recently adopted light brown khaki 
uniform, the latter possessing the most desirable of all colors. The fact 
has also long been noted, in our practice manceuvers, that when one com- 
mand was clothed in the brown fatigue dress, such troops disappeared from 
view long before those wearing the regulation blue uniform. Clearly, the 
blue uniform should not be worn in campaign, even if its retention be 
thought necessary for garrison use. Besides being least conspicuous, the 
effects of ordinary wear are also less apparent on fabrics of a light brown 
or neutral color. 

Common experience, as well as the investigations just noted, shows that 
neither white, blue nor scarlet is a suitable color for military clothing. 
The Austrian army abandoned the white tunic after its disastrous war with 
Italy ; and the English reserve their scarlet tunics for parade and cere- 
monies, adopting the brown khaki for actual service. The Russian army 
uniform is dark green, most excellent for summer service in a wooded 
country, but this color is properly modified for wintry weather and a gray 
landscape by the use of a gray sheepskin cap and long overcoat of a slaty- 
gray color. The French infantry wear dark blue coats, red trousers, for- 
age caps and blue overcoats the most deadly combination used by any 
army except that found in our own garrison uniform. The Belgian uni- 
form is similar to our own but slightly less objectionable, the tunic being 
a lighter blue and the trousers gray. The color of the Spanish uniform on 
the home stations is similar to the French, but the coloring is also some- 
what subdued. The advantage of the light green coat of the Italian ser- 
vice is more than neutralized by the white shakos, trousers and leggings 
which are also worn. The German uniform of slate-colored tunic and 
trousers of lighter shade is deadened in winter by a neutral tinted great- 
coat the color of the Japanese uniform for cool weather being practically 
identical with that of the German service. 

No part of the clothing or equipment should be of burnished metal, 
since through the glint of reflected light a hostile fire may be drawn from 
long distances. Buttons should therefore be of horn or bronze metal. 
The Russians have discarded metal scabbards in favor of those made of 
wood and covered with hard rubber. No colored facings, except perhaps 
a narrow shoulder strap to designate the arm of the service, should, be 
allowed on the uniform, nor should any conspicuous mark of rank be per- 
mitted as tending to draw fire. Cross straps of contrasting color should 
never be employed, nor should our blue cartridge belt be used with khaki 
uniforms. White helmets make a conspicuous mark, and their use was 
soon abandoned by the French in Tonquin, in favor of a neutral gray, for 
this reason. 

Permeability. Its perviousness to air plays an important part in the 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 



297 



hygiene of clothing. If there be not ready atmospheric circulation and 
resulting evaporation of sweat from the surface of the skin, a disturbance 
in the mechanism regulating the dissipation of heat is certain to result; 
this varying in its results from slight discomfort on the part of the wearer 
to the production of exhaustion, heatstroke and even death. Pettenkofer 
found that the permeability of various textures to air, flannel being con- 
sidered as 100, was as follows: 



Flannel 100 

Linen 58 

Buckskin 51 



Silk 40 

Glazed leather 1 



Hiller compared the perviousness of wet and dry cloth, using a press- 
ure of 28 cm. of water, and demonstrated the truth of the common idea 
that moisture renders fabrics much less permeable to air. His results on 
the uniform clothing of the German army, measuring the amount of air 
which would pass through a given surface in a given time, were as follows : 





Dry clothing. 
(Liters of air.) 


Wet clothing. 
(LIUTH of air.) 


Diminution In 
Penneabllltr. 


Military cloak (cavalry) 


54 77 


14 9 


;( v; 


Officers' doeskin 


4841 


2 9 


4/i 51 


Military tunic (soldiers') 


58.62 


5 8 


:,:; :;' 


Military trousers (soldiers') 


52 18 


9 2 


.} ( ix 











After soaking in water for twenty-four hours the cloth of the German 
tunic would not permit the passage of air under a pressure of less than 3 
mm. of mercury. Kolb estimated from his experiments that, if the per- 
meability to air of the uniform of the French officer and soldier when dry 
was regarded as 100, the exposure of such uniform to an atmosphere satur- 
ated with watery vapor reduced its jiermeability to 75 in the case of the 
officer, and 50 in the case of the soldier. Thus on close, humid days, or 
after a shower, the damp or wet clothing of marching soldiers does much 
to favor the occurrence of overheating and sunstroke among them. 

Absorption and Conduction of Heat. The absorption of heat from 
the solar rays depends only to a slight degree upon material or texture and 
is chiefly influenced by color, absorption of heat being least in the light 
shades and increasing according to the following scale white, light yel- 
low, dark yellow, light green, dark red, dark green, light blue and black. 
Laveran found that a thermometer wrapped with white wadding and ex- 
posed to a summer sun gave a temperature of 32 C. where another 
thermometer wrapped in black wadding registered at the same time 42 
C. ; and Coulier found that a thin white cotton tissue superimposed on 
dark woolen reduced the temperature of the latter by as much as 12.6 F. 
Since white has the least absorbent power as regards heat, it is the usual 
color for clothing in tropical regions. It is, however, not suited for mili- 
tary purposes except in garrison, since it is readily soiled and affords a 
most conspicuous mark for the enemy. For military use in summer or 
tropical campaign the color of the uniform should be of light gray, light 
yellow or dusty-brown ; the latter, as exemplified in our khaki clothing, 
probably best answering both sanitary and military requirements under all 
circumstances. From its greater absorption of the solar rays it is very de- 
sirable that the blue flannel shirt, in preventing overheating of the soldier, 



298 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

be discarded for tropical service where a blouse is rarely worn in the 
field and be replaced by a shirt of similar material of light brown color. 

When not in the direct solar rays the absorption of heat depends upon 
the material and texture, color entirely ceasing to be a factor. 

Kolb found that wet fabrics conduct heat more readily than dry fabrics ; 
old clothing better than new clothing. On the other hand, clothing, when 
wet, radiates heat less readily than when dry. Color appears to make no 
difference in the power of heat radiation the power of absorbing heat, 
other than that of the direct solar rays, being in general.equal to the radiat- 
ing power. Hammond noted that a cylindrical vessel containing water at 
150 F. cooled 10 F. in fourteen minutes if covered with woolen United 
States army uniform cloth, and in seven and one-half minutes if covered 
with linen shirting, the other conditions being the same. 

The absorption of odors partly depends upon color. According to 
Parkes, bkck absorbs the most ; the absorptive power varying in a decreas- 
ing scale through blue, red, green, yellow and white. As far as texture 
or material is concerned, the absorption of odors is directly proportionate 
to the hygroscopic properties possessed by the fabric. Wool absorbs odors 
more readily than cotton or linen and hence the suitability for its purpose 
of the cavalry stable frock, made of white cotton duck. 

Absorption of Moisture. Coulier distinguishes between water of 
interposition retained in the meshes of the fabric by capillarity and 
hygroscopic moisture due to the absorption of water by the fibers of the 
material itself. 

According to Klas-Linroth, the amount of hygroscopic moisture taken 
up by a given fabric is determined by the amount of atmospheric humidity, 
temperature having little influence. The rapidity of absorption is very 
great during the first few minutes, and sixty per cent, of the water neces- 
sary to saturation is then taken up the maximum being reached in 
twenty-four hours. Hiller showed that flannel was more than twice as 
hygroscopic as cotton. Pettenkofer found that 1,000 parts of dry flannel 
would take up 913 parts of water, while the same weight of linen would 
take up but 740. On slowly evaporating this water for seventy-five min- 
utes the linen lost 511 parts of water, the flannel 456. During the thirty 
minutes following, the linen was deprived of 130 and the flannel of 148 
parts; during the next thirty minutes the linen 44 and the flannel 115. 

It has been shown that fabrics applied to the naked skin take up 
moisture from it less rapidly than does the external air. Flannel placed 
under these conditions took up, according to Klas-Linroth, only 44 parts of 
water per 1,000 of the fabric, where 174 parts were taken up by the free air. 

With regard to the rapidity with which water is absorbed by clothing, 
as well as its amount, on exposing a French infantry overcoat to an artifi- 
cial rain of moderate intensity the following results were obtained by Kolb : 

Kilograms. 

Weight on removal from the storehouse 2.225 

Weight after twenty-four hours' exposure in an atmosphere saturated 

with moisture 2.355 

Weight after an exposure of one minute to the rain 2.605 

Weight after an exposure of three minutes to the rain 8.140 

Weight after an exposure of six minutes to the rain 4.385 

Weight after an exposure of fifteen minutes to the rain . 5.175 

Weight after drying for twenty-four hours in the open air 2.970 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 299 

He also found that although old cloth took up moisture at the outset 
much more readily than new, this relation was soon reversed; the worn 
fabric ultimately being able to retain less moisture than the new. Lorenz 
has experimented with regard to the increase in weight of the uniform of 
the German foot-soldier from water of interposition, obtaining the follow- 
ing results : 



Total weight of clothing before wetting 7 074 

Total weight of clothing after immersing in water! ..".'.! 18 278 

Total weight after drying for twelve hours, in a damp anil coid 

atmosphere j I 253 

Experiments made by the writer show that the blue uniform or over- 
coat of our service will take up five or six pounds of moisture even in a 
rainfall of no very great intensity. Although this weight is small and is 
a matter of no special importance when the distance to be marched is 
short, the matter becomes quite different during a long day's journey. 
Five pounds carried through an infantry march of sixteen miles is equal, in 
the expenditure of epergy required, to carrying eighty pounds one mile- 
or, if the weight of the equipment be assumed to be about forty pounds, 
the weight of the moisture absorbed practically diminishes the day's march 
which the soldier can perform by two miles. Obviously the difference of 
two miles, in the attempt to seize a strategic point or re-enforce a fighting 
column, may mean the difference between victor}- and defeat ; and the fail- 
ure of Napoleon's re-enforcements to arrive at Waterloo was said to be due 
much to such conditions as are given above. 

These facts show the greatly increased expenditure of energy required 
for the carriage of the clothing during rainy weather, in addition to the 
unfavorable condition of terrain as regards marching so produced, and illus- 
trates the importance of proper water-proofing of the outer garments of the 
soldier as a matter of military and strategic importance as well as a sani- 
tary precaution. 

Water-Proofing. Wet clothing is heavy and uncomfortable, and 
hence is both fatiguing and depressing to the morale of an army on the 
march. Fabrics conduct heat much more rapidly when moist and their 
permeability to air is greatly impaired, thus both favoring chilling of the 
body during cold and interfering with the evaporation of perspiration in hot 
weather. Water-proof clothing of proper character would, therefore, be of 
the greatest advantage to the soldier but tissues which are impermeable 
to both air and water are totally unfit for general military purposes. Rub- 
ber garments, or those of oil skin, cannot be safely worn any length of time 
by marching soldiers, since, while impervious to water, they prevent the 
passage of air and keep the wearer constantly bathed in moisture through 
the non-evaporation of perspiration ; the same objection applies also to the 
use of cloth water-proofed by the use of gutta-percha, shellac, lacquer, 
paraffinV and similar agents. Under severe exercise the use of water-proof 
garments of this character soon becomes very distressing. 

Scoffern advised treating cotton or linen material with a bath of am- 
moniacal cuprous oxide ; this substance possessing the power of bringing 
cellulose into a solution from which it may be precipitated by the action 
of an acid. A better plan for the water-proofing of such clothing, how- 



300 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ever, is based upon the deposition in the fibers of an insoluble compound 
obtained by passing the tissue through a bath of a metallic salt, usually 
iron or alum, and then treating it with a solution of soap. This method 
was improved upon by Dujardin, who employed a solution of acetate of 
aluminum, which decomposed on drying and caused a deposition of the 
metal in the texture. Hiller and Lorenz found that acetate of aluminum 
used in this manner, rendered garments satisfactorily water-proof, while at 
the same time it permitted the access of air in sufficient quantity to cause 
the ready evaporation of the perspiration. In the experiments of the former 
an unimpregnated fabric permitted the passage in a given time of 54 liters 
of air, where similar material, after being water-proofed, allowed the passage 
of 52.98 liters but if the untreated cloth was thoroughly wet only 
14.9 liters of air passed through, while the water-proofed fabric permitted 
the passage of 39.8 liters under the same conditions. Hiller also found 
that under a pressure of 6 cm. of water an unimpregnated cavalry cloak 
was saturated in less than half an hour, while the passage of water did not 
occur in twenty-four hours with the same garment after water-proofing 
with acetate of aluminum. The cloak after being rendered impervious by 
the use of this substance, when immersed in water, absorbed 1,320 gm. 
(three pounds) of water less than a similar cloak not rendered water-proof. 
Lorenz found that the acids contained in sweat dissolved the aluminum, 
as did also alcohol, benzine and vinegar, and that vigorous or repeated 
washings also impaired the impermeability. By the use of aluminum ace- 
tate the color of tissues is altered but little if any, while the amount of the 
metal deposited in the fabric is so small as to make practically no increase 
in weight. By this procedure the tissues are not injured ; coarse and rough 
textures giving better results than finer ones. The method is very inex- 
pensive, and the entire outer clothing of the soldier can be water-proofed at 
a cost of about one dollar for each hundred men. It is stated that this 
method is now employed in the British army for the water-proofing of 
khaki clothing, for which purpose it is very satisfactory. 

Early in 1899, the attention of the writer was casually attracted to 
the well-known property of repelling moisture possessed by blankets woven 
by the Navajo Indians from yarn spun by themselves from native wool 
and further investigation showed that this water-proof quality was depend- 
ent upon the presence of wool-fat, a substance which among civilized peoples 
is carefully removed from fleece before it is dyed and spun. Experiments 
were then begun and carried on for a number of months, when it was 
learned that this method of water-proofing had also been discovered by 
Berthier and ]olb in France at about the same period. The writer, after 
some experimentation, decided upon the use of a solution made up of 20 
to 30 gm. of lanolin, previously dehydrated, dissolved in 1 liter of benzine. 
Kolb employed neutral wool-fat or suint, dissolved in petroleum etherin 
the proportion of 10 gm. of suint to 1 liter of solvent. Recently a process 
has been adopted commercially by which the cloth is impregnated with 
wool-fat by the use of heated steam rollers. The first plan appears to give 
fully as satisfactory results and has the advantage of being cheaper. Woolen 
fabrics, as might be expected, give much more satisfactory results than 
those of vegetable origin though the water-repellent qualities of the latter 
are much improved by this process. 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 301 

The process of water-proofing is very simple and can be readily carried 
out by any one, even in the field. The clothing to be water-proofed is 
merely immersed in the solution, the garment wrung out and the excess of 
solvent allowed to evaporate rapidly in the open air; about 3 liters of the 
solution being required for the entire effects of each soldier. Clothing im- 
pregnated with wool-fat or lanolin may be worn both in rain or sun without 
ill effects, permits the ready evaporation of perspiration and affords better 
protection against rain than do fabrics water-proofed with acetate of alum- 
inum or other chemical bodies. The garments impregnated with wool-fat 
are even more permeable to watery vapor than clothing not so treated; this 
being explained by the fact that moisture cannot penetrate the fibers of 
the cloth and cause their swelling, with consequent diminution of gaseous 
permeability. Little water is absorbed by material treated in this manner, 
Berthier finding that a piece of untreated cloth, weighing 25 gin. when 
dry, had its weight increased to 69.5 gm. by being exposed to a heavy 
rain; while a similar piece of cloth, after impregnation with lanolin, 
weighed only 30.5 gm. after the same exposure. In the writer's experi- 
ments it was found that a woolen bknket, treated with a three per cent, 
solution of lanolin, did not permit the passage of water under a pressure 
of less than one inch,- or about two-thirds of an ounce pressure to the 
square inch. It is noticeable that by the use of this method of water- 
proofing the comparative conductibility as to heat is slightly greater than 
in dry, untreated fabrics, but is considerably diminished when compared 
with similar wet fabrics. The gaseous permeability of cloth treated in 
this manner is only slightly impaired by wetting. 

The water-proofing by wool-fat appears to be permanent as regards or- 
dinary conditions, moderate washing having no effect upon the imperme- 
ability produced by lanolin, although prolonged washing or the use of 
strongly alkaline soap causes a slight diminution. The expense of water- 
proofing the soldier's uniform by means of this agent is inconsiderable, 
amounting to only about twenty cents per man. In using this process, 
which is founded on nature's provision for the protection of the animal, 
care should be taken to ensure equality of impregnation. The best plan 
would undoubtedly consist in passing the cloth, in bolts, through rollers, 
after being soaked in a strong solution. If large garments are soaked and 
then hung up, gravity will cause the solvent to run down and thus bring 
about an excess of the wool-fat in the lower portion of the fabric. In 
such a case the excess of solution should be wrung out, and the position 
of the garment be continually changed until most of the solvent has evapo- 
rated. In warm climates as strong a solution as five per cent, can be used 
on clothing, but in cold climates garments treated with this strength be- 
come slightly stiffened and " felty " in cold weather. Weaker solutions 
should therefore be used in the latter instance, no greater strength than 
two per rent, being employed. 

The proper use of wool-fat for the water-proofing of the nlilitary uni- 
form clearly has many practical advantages. These may be summed up as 
follows : Impermeability to rainfall, free passage of air and water vapor, in- 
creased capillarity, no increase in weight, no alteration in appearance, color 
or odor, increased solidity and strength. To this may be added cheapness, 
ready attainment of water-proofing materials and simplicity of operation. 



302 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 96. Types of Military 
Headgear. United States 
Army uniform cap, without 
insignia. 



SPECIAL ARTICLES OF THE UNIFORM. 

% 

The Head-Covering. The ideal military headgear should be light in 
weight and color, be well ventilated, and offer little resistance to the wind. 
It should protect the head from heat and cold, and shield the eyes and the 
back of the neck from sun and rain. Its centre of gravity should be in 
the same vertical line with that of the head, since otherwise the soldier 
will be required constantly to replace it in maintaining its equilibrium. 
It should not constrict the head nor interfere with the use of the soldier's 
weapons, while it should be a protection at night in the field and be suf- 
ficiently sightly for military ceremonial. It is thus 
apparent that the perfect military headgear has yet 
to be discovered. 

The form and color of the military head-covering 
are of great importance in preventing over-heating 
of the head, and sunstroke, by the solar rays. 
Jousset, in Senegal, observed that, in a tempera- 
ture of 50 C. in the sun, the temperature under a 
soft black hat was 45 C., and under a light gray 
helmet 32 C. ; while Geraud has noted a temperature of as much as 52 
C. in the metallic helmets of the French cuirassiers. It is easy to under- 
stand how readily sunstroke may occur under such conditions. The crown 
of the head-covering must always be sufficiently high to afford a proper air 
space above the head, and, if necessary, to permit the placing therein of a 
damp handkerchief, grass or leaves if such action be required by prolonged 
exposure to a hot sun. 

The forage cap of our service is very light and adapts itself well to the 
head without producing constriction. It has a height in the crown of 
three and one-fourth inches ; the diameter of the top, laterally, being about 
six and one-half inches, and from front to rear seven and five-eighths inches. 
The cap is covered with dark-blue cloth and lined with black satin. The 
shape is maintained by a foundation of haircloth, and it is still further 
stiffened around the side by a band of split leather one-sixteenth of an 
inch thick and two and one-fourth inches wide. The slanting visor has a 
width at the centre of one and five-eighths inches and is lined with em- 
bossed green leather. The weight of the cap is 
about five and one-half ounces. Ventilation is 
provided through the perforated eyelets on each 
side. The disadvantages of the forage cap are 
that it is hot in summer, cold in winter and does 
not sufficiently protect from the rain and sun. It 
also deforms somewhat readily, particularly after 
repeated exposure to rain, and is frequently ac- 
cused, on rather insufficient evidence, of producing baldness. It affords no 
protection to the back of the head and neck, and for this purpose a loosely 
floating neck-cover the " couvre-nuque " and " havelock " of the French 
and English services should be added if the cap is worn in the field in 
a, hot season or climate. When its. use is restricted to garrison service in 
temperate climates, however, the forage cap has no serious defects. 




FIG. 97. Types of Military 
Headgear. French kepi. 




Fio. 98,-Typeg of Military 
Headgear. I nit-i Stales In- 
fantry full-divot twlrwt. 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 

The helmet, so long the distinctive head-dress of the soldier, is no 
longer required as a protection against possible saber strokes, and with this 
the only reasonable argument for its employment in the military service at 
once ceases to exist. The full-dress casque used in our army can be men- 
tioned only to be condemned, since it has many 
grave defects and no advantages over more hy- 
gienic headgear, even for parade. This helmet 
is made of felt, and weighs, with ornaments, from 
seven and one-half to eight and one-fourth ounces. 
The visor is finished inside in green morocco. 
The helmet is furnished with a chin strap to 
hold it in position, and for additional security, 
when issued in the mounted service, it is provided 
with a helmet cord. No provision is made for 
ventilation in this helmet, which is stiff, unyield- 
ing and illy-balanced. It affords no protection 
against cold, and, being both black in color and badly ventilated, is exces- 
sively hot in warm weather. The helmet of the British infantry is made 
of cardboard covered with water-proof cloth. It is well ventilated but is 

heavy and cumbersome, weighing fourteen and 
one-half ounces. The old German helmet, 
made of leather, weighed sixteen ounces and 
was ornamented in copper metal. More re- 
cently parts of the ornaments have been re- 
moved and others made of aluminum. This 
helmet is provided with orifices for ventilation 
at the base of the spike, and by turning the 
latter the ventilation can be regulated. 

The campaign hat used in our service is 
made of drab felt and weighs about three and 
three-fourths ounces when complete. The 
block is five and three-fourths inches deep to 
center of top ; the brim being two and three- 
fourths inches wide in front and rear and three inches wide at the sides. 
The hat is furnished with a sweat-band two and one-fourth inches wide, 
and is provided with small punched holes on the side for ventilation. For 
use in hot climates it is issued with an air 
space under the sweat band, while a ven- 
tilating hole is made on each side, guarded 
by light wire gauze for better ventilation. 
The advantages of the campaign hat are 
many, while its faults are comparatively 
few. txcept for use in winter in very 
cold climates, it is probably the best mili- 
tary headgear which has yet been devised, 

being extremely popular with troops and worn by them in preference to 
any other head covering, even in the tropics. Its defects include the large 
surface which it exposes to the wind and the readiness with which the 
material breaks down on exposure to wet weather the latter being easily 
remedied by contracting for hats of better quality and water-proofing them 




Fio. 99. Types of Military Head- 
gear. German Helmet. 




Fio. 100.-Typw of Military Headgear. 
United States Army Campaign Hal. 



304 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

before issue by the use of wool-fat. This hat cannot be comfortably worn 
by the sleeping soldier, owing to its broad brim ; and when protection for 
the head at night is desirable, a small, soft cap may be advantageously car- 
ried in the equipment, as is done in the French, German and English 
armies. It has been recommended, to give a more dressy effect to the 
campaign hat, that the brim on one side be looped up and fastened by a 
rosette or metal ornament. This implies a sacrifice of the practical and 
hygienic to the aesthetic for it is obvious that if the protection afforded 
by a brim is desirable for one side of the head it is equally so for the 
other. Except in cold weather the crown of this hat should never be 
creased, but should be left intact or else drawn to a point in Mexican 
style to ensure a proper air space above the head of the soldier. This 
rule should be enforced by company officers. The nearest approach to 
the campaign hat used in foreign services is the headgear worn by cer- 
tain of the British and German colonial troops in Africa, and by colonial 
forces in Australia and New Zealand. The Alpine troops of Austria and 
Italy wear a slouch hat, adorned with cock's feathers, resembling it slightly 
in appearance. 

Straw hats, of a pattern approved by the commanding officer of the 
post, are permitted to be used at the more southern home stations during 
summer. Advantage of this permission, however, is rarely taken. 

In foreign military services the head-covering varies greatly in pat- 
tern. The French infantry kepi is similar to the forage cap discarded in our 
service several years ago, after a generation of usage. In the Belgian army 
a shako is used in the field, this being shaped like a truncated cone and 
having a black leather top, patent leather visor and chin strap. In the 
German Landwehr a similar shako is also issued. In the Spanish and 
Italian armies a modified shako is employed, while 
in the British and German services the helmet is 
used. The summer head-dress of the Russian in- 
fantry is a cap similar to that used by the sailors 
of our naval service; a visorless sheepskin cap 
being used in winter. For garrison duty the Aus- 
trian cap is similar to our present forage cap, of 
which it is the prototype. In the field or in cold 

weather a slightly modified cap is issued in that 

FIG. iwZrypes of Military service, provided with a hanging piece of thick 

Headgear, shako. material similar to the " havelock " ; which, while 

usually buttoned up around the cap, may be turned 

down so as to protect the ears and neck. This Austrian service cap ap- 
pears to be by far the best covering used in any European army, though 
very warm for hot weather. 

The Outer Clothing. The double-breasted overcoat with adjustable 
cape, used in both the foot and mounted services of our army, is made of 
sky-blue kersey and lined with dark-blue flannel. It is much too thin for 
use in extremely cold weather, absorbs much moisture and is difficult to 
dry when wet. It is slit up in the back to an extent of twenty-one inches, 
and since the skirts are thin they readily blow aside and afford little pro- 
tection in strong winds. The collar is rolling and has a width of about 
three and one-fourth inches. It would be a much better protection if it 




MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 

were about one and one-half inches wider. The lining of the cape varies 
in color according to the branch of the service. The cape itself is not 
sufficiently long to be of any great value as a separate garment; its use for 
this purpose being sanctioned by custom, if not authorized in orders. The 
overcoat should be amply provided with pockets; there being at present 
only a single inside pocket. It is of great importance that this overcoat 
should be rendered water-proof by the use of 
lanolin, so as to enable the poncho to be 
dropped from the equipment. 

The British army overcoat is somewhat 
heavier than our own, weighing about six 
pounds. The Belgian overcoat is double- 
breasted ; the skirts, as in other European ser- 
vices, being capable of being fastened back, 
upon the march, so as to leave the legs free. 
The Russian overcoat is also double-breasted 
and reaches about two-thirds the distance be- 
low the knee. The French, German and Aus- 
trian overcoats are similar but shorter. In the 
German army the collar may be held up, when 
required, by a little hood, which is concealed 
in a pocket in the collar when not in use. 
In cold weather or driving rain this hood can 
be put on underneath the helmet. This ar- 
rangement is excellent. In the Chino-Japan- 
ese war, the troops of the latter were provided with a great-coat of brown 
blanketing, with a hood and special covering for the head at night. It 
was comfortable, serviceable and of good color for field service. It came 
nearly down to the ankles, and was gathered at the waist by a broad band, 
the latter being an excellent protection for the abdomen and serving 
efficiently for the retention of warmth. 

The uniform blouse is made of dark-blue flannel, weighing thirteen 
ounces to the linear yard and capable of sustaining a strain of twenty -eight 
pounds per inch in the width of the warp; a better quality of material 
being issued for non-commissioned officers. It is a single-breasted sack 
coat with falling collar, and is provided with an inside pocket on the left 
breast. It is now supplied in nine sizes made according to the following 
dimensions : 




FIG. 102. Uniform Overcoat. 



Sizes. 


Length. 
Incbes. 


Length 
of sleeve. 
Inches. 


Neck. 
Inches. 


Width 
of collar. 
InolMk. 


Breast. 
Incbes. 


MM 
InctoM. 


1.. 


28 


81 


15 


1* 


34 


80 


2 


28i 


81} 


15* 


If 


85 . 


81 


8 


29 


82* 


16 


1* 


M 


82 


4... 


29} 


32* 


16* 


1* 


87 


83 


\.\ 


29* 


83* 


17 


If 


88 


84 


6 


80 


88* 


17* 


1* 


89 


85 


7 


80* 


84* 


18 


If 


40 


86 


8 


80* 


84* 


18* 


If 


41 


87 


9 


81* 


35* 


18* 


If 


42 


88 

















The blouse, as usually fitted to the soldier, is liable to compress the 
20 




306 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

muscles to some extent and to impede the respiratory movements of the 
chest. While it should follow the lines of the figure in a general way it 
should be made loose at the neck, large in the shoulder, chest and arm, 
and small at the wrist. Like the trousers, it should be sufficiently full 
to allow of the comfortable use of extra underclothing during very cold 

weather. The bottom should not be ex- 
tended more than two inches below the 
great trochanter, and for cavalry an even 
shorter blouse or shell jacket is preferable. 
Coats with long skirts are worn only in 
the French and Italian armies, and pos- 
sess no advantages over shorter garments 
where drawers are issued. The blouse 
used in the Russian army is made double- 
breasted. This garment should be made 
with four pockets, since these, in the 
field, can be used with great advantage 
by the soldier. In the Belgian army the 
breast pockets are utilized for the carriage 
of cartridges. A rolling collar does not 
sufficiently protect the neck in cold 
FIG. 103. uniform Blouse. weather, and in all the great European 

armies, except that of France, a standing 

collar is worn. In the latter service an additional protection has been found 
necessary, and the wearing of cravats of blue cloth has long been required. 
A loose jacket, cut like the present issue of the khaki blouse, is the ideal 
military coat. Soldiers, who wear no waistcoat, should always keep the 
blouse buttoned, as much for the protection of the otherwise poorly cov- 
ered abdomen as for purposes of military discipline and smartness. The 
buttons of the blouse should be made solid and not hollow, as is the case 
at present, and should not be of burnished metal. 

The blue uniform trousers, excellent in character, are made from sky- 
blue kersey, weighing sixteen ounces to the linear yard and capable of 
sustaining a strain of fifty pounds to the inch in the width of the warp. 
In cut, the trousers should not be made high in the waist and should be 
loose about the hips and thighs. The legs should be cut proportionately 
narrower, and the bottoms should not be permitted to "flare," as is the 
preference of recruits; since such trousers cannot be readily stowed in 
boots or leggings and are more liable to become muddy and heavy in wet 
weather. If the trouser legs are made too long they are quickly soiled, 
become worn at the bottoms and chafe the lower limbs. Both hip and side 
pockets should be provided. In the French and Belgian mounted service 
the long Lasalle trousers are worn, the lower thirds of the legs of which 
are faced with sheep-skin to form false boots. These trousers have many 
disadvantages, and it is understood that their abolition in the French ser- 
vice is now contemplated. 

Suspenders should be used in the military service in preference to the 
"belt, and should be so colored as to present no great contrast to the uni- 
form shirt with which they are worn. The belt compresses the abdomen, 
interferes with diaphragmatic breathing, favors constipation and is believed 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 



307 



by many to exert a considerable influence in the production of hernia. 
The belt and anything else the use of which disturbs a physiological func- 
tion should have no place in the equipment of the soldier. 

The uniform dress-coat is of dark -blue cloth, faced or piped with cloth 
of a color corresponding to the arm of the service or staff corps. It is a 
single-breasted frock coat, with standing collar, cut square to hook in front. 
There is a small inside pocket on the left breast. The dress coat is the 
same for the mounted as for the foot service, except that it is about three 
inches shorter and the skirts are slashed to within three inches of the 
waist. When donned, the skirts of the infantry coat reach to about the 
middle of the thigh. This coat is furnished, ready made, in six sizes. 
The dress-coat has no virtue except that of warmth, and its use should 1 
abandoned. Made tight to impose an artificial stiffness upon the wearer, 
its use renders the soldier incapable of properly performing the very mo- 
tions or duties for which he is specially trained and for which military 
forces are required. No man so dressed could either work or fight effec- 
tively, and it is to be hoped that the step in the right direction recently 
taken, in abandoning the dress-coat and uniform in the case of the hospi- 
tal corps, will be followed by its abolition throughout the army at large. 

Canvas suits are furnished in garrison for use by men engaged in fatigue. 
They are made of seven-ounce cotton duck, dyed in light brown. The coat 
is similar in cut to the uniform blouse/and is provided with breast pockets. 
These fatigue uniforms were largely used by the regular troops during the 
Spanish-American war, prior to the issue of khaki clothing, and proved far 
superior to the blue uniform for tropical 
field service. Similar fatigue uniforms are 
.supplied in foreign armies. 

Stable frocks and trousers of white 
duck have long been issued to mounted 
troops for the better protection of their 
clothing, and are excellently adapted to 
the purpose for which they are employed. 

In certain southern posts a summer 
uniform of white cotton duck is issued. 
The use of this uniform at all times is 
permitted to the hospital corps on duty at 
post or general hospitals. In most foreign 
armies, as the German, the uniform cloth- 
ing is never varied, winter or summer. 

The Underclothing. The flannel 
shirt appears to be very satisfactory for 
military use in all climates. Even in 
tropical countries it is preferred by the 

men to the cotton or charpoy shirt, since with its use chilling of the body 
is large\v prevented. It is at present issued in two grades, of eight 
and ten-ounce flannel respectively. It is loose-fitting, with broad rolling 
collar and large breast pockets. In the field or on fatigue it may be 
worn without a coat, and barring its color it forms an ideal military gar- 
ment. When intended to be worn in the tropics or with the khaki uniform 
it should preferably be made in gray or dusty-brown. As issued, the shirt 




FIG. 1(M. Infantry Dress Coat. 



308 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

should be long enough to reach the middle third of the thigh and should be 
provided with cotton neck and wrist bands to prevent undue retraction and 
constriction by shrinkage. This garment does not readily show dirt, and 
hence in the field it is frequently not washed as often as desirable. 
When dirty and full of sweat the flannel is somewhat irritant to the skin 
and may then favor the occurrence of urticaria, eczema and furunculosis. 

Three grades of woolen undershirts are issued in our service, known as 
light weight, light quality and heavy quality. They each contain sixty 
per cent, of wool and forty per cent, of cotton. A white cotton undershirt 
is also issued ; this, like the woollen undershirts, being supplied in six sizes. 
Both quality and grades leave little to be desired. The equipment of the 
German soldier includes three cotton shirts ; a recent order providing also 
for the issue of a simple knitted woolen shirt in winter. In the British 
service each man is required to possess two woolen shirts, while in the 
French army the shirts are of merino, containing one-third cotton and 
two-thirds wool. 

Drawers are intended primarily for cleanliness and the prevention of 
chafing, and secondarily for the warmth of the legs and lower portion of the 
abdomen. In warm weather, where the blue uniform is worn, troops are 
inclined to avoid the use of drawers. During the march the dusty trou- 
sers, saturated with perspiration, soon become filthy and by their heat and 
coarseness irritate and chafe the unprotected legs, while in camp the dis- 
use of drawers is liable to be followed by surface chilling and intestinal 
disorders. Hence drawers should be required to be worn under all circum- 
stances; their use, if necessary, being forced by inspection by company 
officers. They are supplied in canton flannel and cotton jeans, being 
issued in five sizes. Those of the former material are cut too loose for the 
mounted service, and are liable to wrinkle and produce chafing and exco- 
riations. They should be fastened at the bottoms with tapes rather than 
by buttons. Light drawers, made of balbriggan, should be issued. As a 
matter of fact, soldiers in garrison largely refrain from drawing undercloth- 
ing from the Government and prefer to obtain more desirable underwear 
from outside sources. No drawers are issued to troops in the English and 
Spanish services; the French soldiers being allowed two pair of cotton 
drawers yearly. 

In the late winter campaign in China the Japanese troops, in addition 
to the regular underclothing, were provided with paper shirts and drawers. 
These were worn in very cold weather, the former between the usual uiider- 
and oversbirts, and the latter over the ordinary drawers, and were said to 
be very warm and comfortable. The Jaeger underclothing, used largely in 
the German army, is so woven as to be non-irritating to the skin, while 
the arrangement of the constituent hairs facilitates the removal of moisture. 

As mentioned elsewhere, military clothing should be cut loose to per- 
mit, if occasion demands, of the wearing of more than one set of under- 
clothing; since, as is well known, animal warmth is better preserved by 
the use of several garments than by a single one of their aggregate thick- 
ness, owing to the air confined in their various layers. During campaign 
an extra pair of socks, suit of underclothing and shirt should always be 
carried by the soldier. 

Woolen abdominal protectors are issued in several foreign services. 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 309 

They are used by the French troops serving in Algeria and at tropical sta- 
tions, but are not worn by soldiers on home service. In the British army 
the constant wearing of the abdominal protector is required by regulation*; 
obedience being enforced by frequent inspection and dereliction being fol- 
lowed by severe penalty. In the British service, however, no drawers are 
issued, and to take their place some adequate abdominal covering is re- 
quired; but where long woolen shirts and drawers are worn, as in our 
army, such additional protection is neither necessary nor desirable. For the 
sick, or during epidemics of diarrhoea, cholera or dysentery, the abdominal 
band may be worn with advantage but with healthy men, ]*irticularly in 
hot weather, it is a cause of discomfort and fatigue. If sufficiently tight 
to retain its position, the band interferes with the action of the abdominal 
muscles and with intestinal peristalsis, and thus largely favors constipation. 

The Coverings of the Extremities. Gloves are necessary in winter 
to enable the soldier, without danger of frostbite, to manipulate his weapons 
with precision. In our service a fur glove is issued 
for this purpose, but this is unnecessarily warm, bulky, 
and cumbersome except in very cold weather, and a 
medium weight glove should be provided. White cot- 
ton gloves are issued not so much for warmth, of 
which they possess little, as to improve the appearance 
of the soldier for parade or other ceremonial. Cavalry 
habitually wear gauntlets when mounted. In the 
French service the use of mittens is authorised for 
the colder stations. The Japanese troops use mittens 
made with two divisions ; the forefinger being inserted 
in one, when desired, for the more ready use of the 
trigger of the rifle. In the Russian and German ser- F|0- 
vices the soldiers in winter wear woolen gloves fastened 
together by a cord which passes up through the sleeves and over the 
shoulders. This arrangement is excellent for the prevention of loss, es- 
pecially liable to occur during winter campaign. 

The military stocking is an article which has not received the attention 
which its importance warrants. No stockings are issued in the Spanish, 
French and Italian armies, a fact to which the frequency of injuries of the 
feet in these services must be largely attributed. The use of stockings 
promotes cleanliness and prevents saturation and hardening of the shoe 
leather by perspiration a potent factor in the production of excoriations. 
In winter, also, the soldier, in rain or snow, with shoes often penetrated 
by icy water, is very liable to frostbite; this accident being in great part 
avoided by the use of woolen socks. In the war of 1870-71, cases of 
frostbite of the lower extremities were extremely common among the 
French troops, who had no protection for the feet other than leather shoes 
of notoriously poor quality; while freezing of the lower extremities rarely 
occurred in the German army, each soldier of which was provided with two 
pair of Knitted woolen stockings. The annual clothing allowance of the 
British army includes three pair of woolen socks per man ; the Swiss soldier 
yearly receiving two pair. In the German army stockings are only used 
in winter; pieces of cloth about fifteen or twenty inches long and four 
inches wide, which the soldier wraps around his feet, being issued for 




310 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 106. Woolen sock. 



summer use. These strips, or " Fusslappen," are made of linen, canton 
flannel or knitted woolen material, varying with the temperature and the 
moisture of the feet. They are applied by starting one end smoothly un- 
der the ball of the great toe and winding like a bandage over the back of 
the foot from within outward, finally covering the heel, while the last 

corner is laid smoothly across the instep. In the 
Russian army such strips are worn throughout the 
year, the company officers being responsible for 
their cleanliness and proper application. These 
pieces of cloth are merely economical makeshifts 
for better articles, but their use does not appear 
to be as detrimental to the integrity of the feet 
as at first sight would seem to be inevitable. It 
is claimed for them, as compared with stockings, 
that they can be more readily washed and dried, 
take up less room, and, by being folded in differ- 
ent ways, are worn out more uniformly and less 
quickly. To take the place of stockings the 
French soldier, during the war of 1870-71, often 
filled the vacant space in his shoes with straw. 

In our own service both woolen and cotton 
stockings are issued, the latter being provided in 
two grades and five sizes. The woolen sock is 

made of pure wool and is furnished in three sizes ; size ten and one-half 
being required to weigh three pounds per dozen pairs. These socks should 
be issued in at least six sizes, since when ill fitting they are provocative 
of corns and blisters. If too small, the toes are cramped and the wear- 
ing out of the material is hastened ; if too large, the stocking is apt to 
wrinkle at the heel and so induce the occurrence of blisters. To prevent 
the latter accident the sock should be held up, preferably by pinning to 
the drawers but the use of garters is objectionable in that they bind the 
leg and favor the occurrence of varicose veins. The 
wearing ih the field of stockings which have been 
worn through or darned should always be avoided, 
and before entering upon a campaign the kit of the 
soldier should be inspected for their elimination. 
Given the most perfect shoes, if a man has a hole in his 
sock his foot will be inevitably blistered, and in this 
connection it may be emphasized that the rough-and- 
ready darning usually given these articles by the men 
is nearly as bad as the holes themselves. Woolen 
stockings, the only kind issued in foreign armies, and 
until quite recently in our own also, induce free per- 
spiration of the feet, but are much more suitable for the 
use of troops in the field during the march, as being less 
liable to induce chafing. They should, however, be 
changed on arriving at camp, and their use necessitates even greater at- 
tention to the cleanliness of the feet. With a heavy stiff shoe a thick soft 
stocking is practically a necessity for constant marching a fact throughly 
recognized by old soldiers. 




FIG. 107. Cavalry Leg- 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 311 

Leggings, made in three sizes of fifteen-ounce brown canvas duck, to be 
worn in the field or on campaign, are now issued to all branches of the 
service. They are a great protection for infantry, particularly in wet 
weather or when campaigning in a rough or timbered country ; and ropff 
their adoption our foot-troope have been freed from the necessity of facing 
their trouser legs with canvas or buckskin, as was formerly customary in 
frontier service, to prevent their being worn out or cut by grass, brush or 
briars. For cavalry the legging is a marked improvement over the boot, 
since it answers every purpose when mounted, is light and pliable, and, if 
on dismounted sen-ice, does not impede the performance of any duty. 
Laggings are much liked by the troops, since they protect the legs, prevent 
muddying of the trousers, promote cleanliness and dryness and are readily 
cleaned at the end of a march. Their disadvantages are those of extra 
articles of clothing to be looked after, together with their slightly addi- 
tional weight. If worn too tight they bind the muscles of the legs and 
thus may considerably increase the fatigue of the march; for this reason 
shorter leggings are desirable for foot troops. While the strap passing un- 
der the instep promotes smoothness of the legging over the shoe, in a 
muddy country it is a serious disadvantage through the 
mud which it collects. In this respect it is a question 
whether the English style of legging is not superior to 
our own. 

The Italian infantry wear short linen leggings or 
gaiters; while in the Japanese service a legging of 
white canvas, similar in cut to our own and reaching 
nearly to the knee, is worn by the foot troops. Long 
leggings made of leather are used in the British army ~T 

though recently " putties " have been much used and 

*!/**_: *u u i* i e i ne.l(K-Lp 

in the Austrian service the half -boots formerly worn by tn luuan Army, 
troops have been replaced by shoes and leggings. No 
leggings are used in the German or Russian armies ; but boots are used, 
and the trousers tucked into them before beginning the march. In India, 
" putties " are used instead of leggings, both by foot and mounted troops, 
and are said to be satisfactory. 

It will not be disputed that the marching powers of infantry are a most 
important factor in the conduction and success of a campaign, and that the 
army which marches best, other things being equal, is the successful army. 
History is full of instances where battles and campaigns have been won 
more by marching than by fighting, and rapidity of movement will be no 
less an element of military strategy in the wars of the future than it has 
been in the past. Napoleon is reported to have said that he made wa 
so much with the arms as with the legs of his soldiers ; while Marshal 
considered good shoes for his infantry as important as mounts for his 
cavalry. Saxe said that the whole of military tactics was in the legs of 
his soldiers and Wellington enumerated the three most essential parts 
of the soldier's equipment as a pair of good shoes, a second pair of good 
shoes and a pair of half-soles. Hence it is that of all the protective cov- 
erings which the foot-soldier wears, his shoes are by far the most impor- 
tant from a strategic standpoint ; since upon their ease and the comfort of 
their fit, their pliancy and lightness, depends his military efficiency. War 




312 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

is a business, and the soldier whose badly-shod feet are unable to carry 
him into battle fails of the purpose for which he was trained and instead 
of being an added strength he becomes an incumbrance. Lindau, in 1883, 
found that of ten thousand men discharged annually from the German 
army for physical disability, in time of peace, four hundred were for affec- 
tions of the feet a proportion which would be greatly increased in time 
of hostilities ; while, as stated in a previous chapter, over thirty thousand 
German soldiers were incapacitated for duty during the first few weeks of 
the Franco-Prussian war on account of injuries of the feet these having 
largely resulted from the use of poor foot-wear, hardened by long storage 
in the supply depots. Le"ques, in 1882, found that excoriations of the feet 
figured as one-third of all the causes of exemption from active service 
among young French soldiers during campaign. 

In character, the military shoe should afford the greatest amount of 
protection with the least injury to the foot of the wearer. It should 
possess solidity and rigidity, yet at the same time have a certain amount 
of suppleness. It should protect against the cold in winter, against heat 
in summer and moisture at all times. Evaporation of perspiration should 
be readily carried on. The shoe should be so fashioned as to be readily 
donned and removed, and should be light in weight. The importance of 
light foot-wear for the soldier is so fully appreciated by the Germans that 
even the nails of the military shoes are made of aluminum in the effort to 
reduce weight. According to Viry, "each gramme more or less on the 
shoe is equivalent, so far as the effect on the wearer is concerned, to one 
kilogramme more or less to carry through the journey." The shoe should 
also be made of durable material presenting no interior roughness, should 
be reasonably cheap, and should be supplied in such a variety of sizes as 
to render the fitting of the foot a matter easy of accomplishment. In 
fashion, custom should be disregarded for utility. 

The sole should conform in shape to the natural outline of the foot ; the 
outer margin of which is a long curve, while the inner side approaches a 
straight line. Ample space for the fifth metatarsal should always be en- 
sured. The toe should be slightly rounded, the point being toward the 
inner aspect rather than in the centre. The fore part should be broad to 
allow for expansion ; but no great breadth is necessary at the middle of the 
foot, which does not spread to any extent. To protect the sides of the 
foot against stones, the sole should be wider than the uppers by about 
one-eighth of an inch ; but if it project too far it serves to accumulate mud, 
and thus increases fatigue in marching over muddy roads. The sole should 
be supple, since if it be too thick flexibility is lacking, while if thin the 
protection is insufficient and the shoe lacking in solidity. The insole 
should be smooth and slightly concave to receive the heel and ball, but 
there should be no contact or interference with the free play of the ankle, 
which is intolerant of support except at its extremities. 

The heel should be fixed in such a manner that it cannot be detached. 
It should be broad to afford a solid base, and low to prevent the sliding 
forward of the foot, with resulting discomfort and cramping of the toes. 
The length of the pace as well as the stability of the individual is directly 
influenced by the height of the heel and it may fairly be questioned 
whether the actual omission of the latter, as is done in the Greek army, 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 313 

may not be of advantage. For the erect and artificial gait of civilized 
peoples the use of the heel is, no doubt, largely responsible, and with iu 
retention the successful use of the natural or aboriginal gait, described in 
a previous chapter, will be accomplished only with some difficulty. To 
diminish the vibration of the body, particularly that of the encephalon, pro- 
duced by the impact of the foot upon the ground, Collin proposed to make 
the heel of rubber. He claimed as a further advantage for this device that 
the energy stored up in the rubber compressed by the weight of the soldier 
would assist in his propulsion. Trial of such a shoe in the French ser- 
vice has appeared to result favorably, it being found that the same 
effects can be produced by a disc of rubber inside the shoe just above 
the heel. 

For field service the heel and such part of the sole as touches the ground 
in walking may advantageously be fortified with hob-nails or strip* of 
leather; thus adding to their durability and giving better foothold, particu- 
larly on grass or rough or frozen ground. They should not be too many 
in numl>er and should be firmly fastened and not liable to fall out, since 
when the latter occurs the sole ceases to be water-tight. In the German 
service these nails and those used in fastening the heel are made of alumi- 
num to diminish their weight. Metal plates, sometimes advised, take up 
much of the wear, but are heavy and soon become smooth and polished, 
causing much discomfort and fatigue to the wearer through the insecure 
foothold given. 

There should be no surplus leather in the upper, nor should it possess 
interior seams to bruise and abrade the skin. The instep should be high, 
for if it is not the men will frequently cut the vamp and tongue, thus 
destroying the support to the ankle and injuring the appearance. The 
leather around the ankle joint should be light, to provide for the rocking 
motion of the foot, yet should fit snugly. The tongue should be of the 
bellows style, and the top of the shoe should be cut high. The shoe 
should be hollowed out behind to prevent friction of the heel. The meth- 
od of fastening should be easy and simple the use of lacing best filling 
this indication, as well as. allowing ready adjustment to the swelling of the 
foot on the march. 

The shape of the foot at rest differs from that of the foot in action. 
In the normal adult foot the weight is supported on the outer border of the 
sole, the heel and the anterior extremities of the me tata reals. The toes 
bear little weight when standing, more when walking and most of all 
when running. The great toe is a direct prolongation of the first metatar- 
sal, and its single joint is acted upon by the strong flexor muscle, which, 
in propulsion, tends to shorten the foot and preserve the plantar arch as 
well as to approximate the inner side of the foot to a straight line. This 
bow-string effect of the flexor tendons does not begin until the body is in 
advance of the vertical line and reaches its maximum at the end of the 
step. Pressure increases the length and breadth of the foot at the first 
part of every stride, through the yielding of the arch and the spreading of 
the structures, while swelling occurs as the result of long marches. The 
greater spreading occurs in the toes, the ball widening 6 to 12 mm., the 
instep still less, and the heel only flattening to meet and adapt itself to 
the supporting surface. Fer found that, as a result of long marches un- 



314 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 





FIG. 109. The Normal Foot and Footprint. 



der heavy equipment, the plantar arch tends to become obliterated, with 
resulting temporary flat-footedness. 

In dealing with the feet of the soldiers, these may be regarded as being 
physically a select class from which at the outset many common abnor- 
malities are excluded, although most 
feet are more or less deformed by the 
custom of shoe wearing. As a re- 
sult of the pressure of ordinary shoes, 
a line drawn from the centre of the 
heel to the tip of the great toe will 
usually not cut the latter, but will 
pass through the third metatarsal, 
practically dividing the foot into 
halves and depriving the inner aspect 
of the leverage of the great toe, 
which has been displaced toward the 
centre. This toe may be semi- 
dislocated, often with the production 
of an inflammation in the joint, 
while its nail, turned down by pres- 
sure, is prone to grow into the flesh. 
The second and third toes, pressed 
together, are raised up, and examination of the sole of the foot shows only 
the third, fourth and great toes. Through pressure the toes are atrophied 
and deformed, loosing their rounded appearance and becoming asymmetri- 
cal and prismatic. If the shoe is too short they are retracted and take 
on the appearance of "hammer toes," which deformation gives great 
pain and unfits for marching. The 
tarsal bones are often deformed and 
present exostoses. The ordinary last 
upon which the issue shoe is made 
does not make provision for the com- 
paratively large size of the great toe, 
especially over the joint, is not suffi- 
ciently full over the other toes, and 
the upper leather over the heel and 
tendo Achillis is cut too straight; 
hence it is at these points that ex- 
coriations and blisters most frequently 
occur. Deformities of the feet which 
are not very great are overcome by the 
use of rational shoes and need not 
be considered as necessarily a bar to 
enlistment. 

Soldiers, if left to themselves, are prone to draw shoes too short and 
narrow for their weighted feet, and the officer witnessing the issue should 
always pay particular attention to the selection made. It would be of ad- 
vantage if all shoes drawn were put on by the men immediately on return- 
ing to barracks, and their fit verified by the company commander before 
actual use. In fitting the shoe, one-tenth should be allowed in length and 





FIG. 110. Deformities of Feet Resulting frotn Bad 
Shoes. 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 



315 



slightly less in breadth for the expansion of the foot in locomotion. Zie- 
gler fixes the necessary excess of length at 15 to 20 millimeters. 

The carriage of an extra jwir of shoes during campaign is a severe tax 
on the energies of the soldier, and it is a much-mooted question whether 
it is not advisable entirely to do 
away with this practice and trust to 
issues in the field from time to 
time, as opportunity permits, to re- 
place deficiencies. Such an ar- 
rangement, however, would also do 
away with one of the most efficaci- 
ous methods of preventing injury to 
the feet by marching; namely, the 
use of two pairs of shoes in daily 
rotation, by which relief is afforded 
through the temporary removal of 
pressure from galled places and its 
transference to other less sensitive 
parts. 

During hard campaign, with 
constant marching, under usual con- 
ditions of moisture and roughness 
of roads, a pair of shoes may be ex- 
pected to last about two months, 
and be sufficient, with light rejmrs, 
for a journey of six hundred miles 
over ordinary terrain. 

It is of the greatest importance 
that shoes which are new and stiff 
should be carefully suppled and 
broken in before being used on the 
march, since otherwise injury to 
the feet is almost certain to result. 
Such footgear should be soaked in 
water until every part is pliable, 
donned while wet over a heavy pair of socks and used for a walk of several 
hours. They will l>e found comfortable from the start, and at the end of 
that time will have acquired the exact shape of the feet. The shoes should 
then be removed, tightly packed with dry oats and set aside in a cool 
place so as not to dry too rapidly. When finally dried, the seams should 
be coated with molten wax to protect the thread, without removing the 
oats, and the whole outside should be given a coat of neatsfoot or cod- 
liver oil, repeating several times, and finally completing the process with 
some water-proofing dressing. The oats are then shaken out, and the 
shoes wSl be found to be comfortable, damp-proof and durable, since the 
swelling of the oats prevents shrinkage and no last can mould the inside 
of the shv-e like the foot itself. Shoes which have been kept long in store 
become hard and inflexible, to prevent which they should, from time to 
time, be well gone over with an oiled rag. 

Wet shoes are heavy, liable to chafe the feet and readily lose their 




Fto. 111. -Radiograph of Foot of Soldier, showing d*- 
fonnlty of toes and Irritation exiwUwa due to bad 



316 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

shape ; and the military shoe, while permeable to air, should not readily 
admit water. To assist in keeping out dampness it has been suggested 
that a layer of gutta percha be put on the upper part of the sole before it 
is sewn hi place, but this is undesirable on account of the retention of the 
perspiration which is thus caused. The uppers should in all instances be 
waterproofed ; this procedure not only ensuring dryness of the feet, but 
also suppling of the leather and rendering it more durable and readily 
cleansed. An excellent waterproof paste, which does not prevent the 
blackening of shoes, is composed as follows : 

Tallow 6 parts. I Linseed oil 2 parts. 

Wax 2 " Venice turpentine 2 " 

This should be applied slightly warm. 
Thomas' preparation is similar, containing: 



Mutton tallow 6 parts. 

Yellow wax . . . 1 " 



Neatsfoot oil 1 part. 

Venice turpentine 1 " 

Parafflne.. . 1 " 



In these formulae the wax and paraffine are undesirable, since they in- 
terfere with the dissipation of perspiration from the feet. Salquin recom- 
mends the use of the fat of the horse as being best of all; the writer has 
used wool-fat successfully. In the French army a mixture of three parts 
of mutton tallow to seven parts of neatsf oot oil is employed ; the proportion 
of tallow being slightly diminished in cold weather. Tanners use a mix- 
ture of mutton tallow, cod-liver- oil, and a little potassium, this being 
worked in with a cloth and the aid of gentle heat. In the absence of the 
issue of any special preparation for this purpose, old soldiers are careful to 
frequently rub then- shoes, previously warmed, with bits of fat bacon from 
which the salt has been dissolved, this increasing the impermeability and 
pliability of the shoe. Shoes thus treated, however, soon acquire a bad 
odor and attract flies in hot weather, and the rancid fat is said to cause 

rotting of the thread. Shoe 
blacking, as generally em- 
ployed, contains a certain 
amount of sulphuric acid, 
which induces drying and de- 
terioration of the leather and 
predisposes to cracking, the 
rotting of stitches and the 
entrance of water. Hence 
the military shoe should pref- 
erably be greased rather than 

FIG. m-united states Army Regulation shoe. blackened, especially wnce 

the blacking of shoes inter- 
feres with the evaporation of perspiration. To avoid the necessity of 
blacking the shoes, with its several disadvantages, the boots issued in the 
German army are now made of fair leather. Shoes of this character, as 
issued with our khaki uniforms, have been much appreciated. 

The United States army shoe, as adopted in 1898, appears to be ex- 
cellent and satisfactorily to fill the needs of the military service. The 
vamp is made of calfskin, and the top and tongue of kangaroo calf, 




MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 



317 




Fio. 113. United States Army Barrack Shoe. 



boarded and of uniform thickness. The side lining is the same material 
as the vamp, while the upper lining is of shoe drilling. The outsoles, top 
piece and heel lifts are required to be cut from best quality hides weigh- 
ing eighteen to twenty-six pounds to the side. The shoe is hand-sewed 
with silk and linen thread, the inseam being covered by a welt taken out 
of the insole to protect the seam and make it level for the wearer. The 
outsole, thoroughly ham- 
mered, is grooved one-six- 
teenth of an inch to 
countersink the stitching, and 
sewed with eight and one- 
half stitches to the inch. 
The shoe is issued in eight 
sizes and four widths; the 
weight two and one-half pounds per pair. This shoe is constructed of ex- 
cellent material and well answers the purpose for which it is intended. 

Constant watchfulness on the part of quartermasters is necessary to 
keep the quality of leather used up to the proper standard. All leather 
must have the entire thickness of the hide, as the middle portion is fibrous, 
absorbent and tough, and cannot be permanently reduced to a smooth sur- 
face. When subjected to hard wear it soon becomes rough and cloth-like 
in appearance. A too cheap shoe is never an economy, and footgear 
pegged or poorly stitched, whose absorbent soles almost fall apart upon ex- 
posure to wet, are plainly always to be avoided. 

Barrack shoes are issued for use in garrison when not on duty, and 
are much lighter and more comfortable than the leather shoe for this 
purpose. They are made with upj>ers of fifteen-ounce brown cotton duck, 
the toe and top of vamp being made of russet-colored calfskin. In the 
British service a stout water-proof slipper, and in the Austrian and Ger- 
man armies a low shoe, forms j)art of the field equipment of the soldier 
and is intended for use in the camp after conclusion of the march. This 
practice does not seem to have any positive advantage over the carrying 
of a stouter and heavier sh<, since excellent results can be obtained 
by changing the ordinary shoes and stockings after the march, the differ- 
ence in weight l>eing of little importance when com- 
pared with the military advantage of having a second 
marching shoe always available. 

In our mounted service a riding boot, issued in 
three widths and eight sizes, weighing about four and 
one-half pounds, forms part of the uniform of the sol- 
dier. This boot is well made, but is comfortable only 
for mounted use and is very liable to chafe when walk- 
ing. If loose-fitting, it affords no support to the ankle, 
and the liability to excoriation is proportionately in- 
creased. If snug, it is not easily put on or taken off, 
and if the leather be wet or shrunken, the stocking 
damp or the foot swollen, the former action is at times 
impossible. Under all circumstances the boot gives an insecure footing on 
a grassy surface, while it forms an insufficient protection in cold weather 
and is uncomfortably warm in hot climates. If boots must be worn in 




Fio. 114- 



Boot. 



318 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 115. Low Shoe Used in the Italian Army. 



the future they should be short, pliable and light but their use, together 
with the helmet and dress uniform, should preferably be abandoned. All 
mounted troops spend more time on foot than in the saddle, and since the 
Civil War our cavalry has fought dismounted. Hence it is only logical 
that the footgear of the cavalryman should be such as would enable him 

readily to march or perform any other 
duty when dismounted through acci- 
dent or design, and for this purpose 
no better combination than the infan- 
try shoe and long canvas legging can 
be devised. For purposes of parade a 
detachable leather leg, with stiff brace, 
might be worn with the shoe; thus 

giving all the effect of the boot and still avoiding a large proportion of its 
disadvantages. 

The footgear worn in different foreign armies varies greatly. In the 
Greek army a foot-covering similar to the buskin or high moccasin is 
worn. The Italian and Belgian soldier wears a low shoe and gaiter of the 
style discarded in France several years ago. The Spanish army in garrison 
uses laced leather shoes but in the field it is supplied with sandals having 
rope soles, the latter rapidly wearing out and being of but little protection 
in mud, water or snow. In the British service a high laced leather shoe, 
with leather leggings, is worn. In the French army the " brodequin " or 
modified shoe has recently been adopted and gives excellent satisfaction ; 
footgear of this type being worn also by the troops of Austria, Switzerland 
and Turkey. In the German and Russian services the soldier wears a boot ; 
this having obvious advantages in rain or snow, but possessing also many 
of the defects above noted for our cavalry boots. The Russian boot is 
also higher than would seem to be de- 
sirable, reaching to just below the knee. 

The Blanket. Excellent gray blan- 
kets are issued to troops, and of these 
each man possesses at least one. The 
specifications require that this blanket be. 
made of long staple wool, free from 
shoddy, re- worked wool or cotton, and 
capable of bearing a strain of not less 
than thirty pounds per inch without tear- 
ing. The blanket is seven feet long and 
five feet six inches wide, and is required to weigh not less than five pounds. 
When in the field, and circumstances require it, an extra blanket for each 
two infantrymen may be carried on the wagons if transportation be ample. 
Should bad weather render it necessary, each mounted soldier may make 
use of his saddle blanket in addition to the one carried for his own protec- 
tion and comfort. Where used alone, the blanket may advantageously be 
converted into a sleeping-bag by sewing up one end and continuing the proc- 
ess half way up the side. The writer has found that the best plan for cold 
weather is for two men to sleep together, spreading their blankets lengthwise 
in such a way that the overlapping longitudinal edge of one corresponds 
with the middle line of the other. The men lie down close to each other 




FIG. 116. French Brodequin. 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 319 

in the centre of these blankets, and by pulling the free ends of the blankets 
over them convert the latter into a sleeping-bag having a double thick- 
ness above and below. The open end at the foot is closed by lifting it up 
by the feet when the men are in ]>osition and turning in the upper edge. 
The feet rest on this edge, and their weight holds it in ]>osition, making 
the sleeping-bag wind-proof. Where this method is frequently employed 
it is well to work a small buttonhole in the corner of each blanket and 
sew a button at each end of the horizontal bisecting line more securely to 
fasten the blankets in position. The blanket, like the overcoat, should 
always be water-proofed for better protection against damp ground or sur- 
face moisture. When once wet the non- waterproofed blanket is uncom- 
fortable at night and burdensome by day, and frequently cannot be dried 
in the Held during a period of rainy weather. 

The rubber sheet serves an excellent purpose in protecting the sleeping 
soldier from soil moisture. It is six feet long and three feet nine inches 
in breadth, and weighs two and one-half pounds. It is furnished with 
brass grommets so situated as to enable several of the water-proof sections 
to be joined, or to permit its use for the protection of the person of the 
soldier in camp or on the march during rainy weather. For ordinary use 
the rubber blanket may .conveniently be replaced by the poncho; thisliav- 
ing a central jierforation which jiasses over the head and retains it in posi- 
tion without assistance from the hands. It affords excellent protection 
from rain during the march, and lias the great advantage of not interfering 
to any great degree with the circulation of air. Where the ordinary cloth- 
ing is properly water-proofed according to one of the methods already de- 
tailed, however, the use of jxnichos and rubber blankets can be very well 
dispensed with, and a saving thus made in the weight carried by the 
soldier. Ponchos and rubber blankets are issued gratuitously and are not 
charged against the soldier unless lost or destroyed by his neglect. 



II. 
EQUIPMENT. 

Transportation upon the person of such articles as are considered neces- 
sary for the independence of the modern soldier in the field, is to be ac- 
complished only with great personal discomfort and fatigue, and often by 
the expenditure of so much vital force as to seriously affect efficiency and 
health. 

Weight. The United States foot-soldier is required to carry in the 

field, besides the clothing worn on the person, the arms and ammunition, 
the canteen, the ration and the utensils for its preparation. To this may 
be added the change of shoes and underclothing, the blanket, poncho and 
shelter-tCjit half. With small columns these latter articles are generally 
transported in the wagons, but with large commands each man must carry 
his own. How this may be done without undue discomfort and fatigue to 
the soldier, and how the present burden may be pr.>i*>rly reduced, are 
problems important from the tactical as well as the hygienic standpoint 
which are as yet awaiting satisfactory solution. 



320 THEOEY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Outside the armament and equipment, the weight carried by the indi- 
vidual naturally depends upon climate, season and the number of rations 
which it is required to transport. In hot weather the overcoat and heavy 
clothing are obviously unnecessary, while in dry climates the rubber blan- 
ket and even the shelter-tent may often be dispensed with to advantage. 
While the determination of the articles to be borne by the soldier in 
the field has, in the past, been left largely to the commanding officer 
in each individual instance or emergency, it is probable that only in rare 
instances as in a winter campaign in a cold climate, when transporta- 
tion is deficient will the maximum outfit authorized by regulations be 
carried. 

It is not possible to state in exact figures the burden to be transported 
by the individual since the weight of the clothing varies according as the 
articles are wet or dry and also with the height and size of the wearer 
but the maximum weight which may be carried under ordinary conditions 
can be considered to be made up as follows : 



APPAREL WORN ON THE PERSON. 

Pounds. Ounces. 

Campaign hat 5 

Overcoat 6 6.75 

Blouse 2 1 

Knit drawers 14.75 

Trousers 2 .50 

Suspenders 2.50 

Flannel shirt 1 

Knit undershirt 1 2 

Stockings, woolen 4.75 

Gloves, fur 10 

Shoes 2 7 

Leggings 8.50 

Total.. . 18 1.25 



ARMAMENT AND EQUIPMENT. 



Pounds. 
. 9 



Rifle .................................................. 

Gun sling ................................................ 

Bayonet ................................................ 

Bayonet scabbard ........................................ 

Cartridge belt, woven .................................... 1 

Cartridges, 100 .......................................... 6 

Blanket bag ............................................. 1 

Blanket bag, shoulder straps, pair ......................... 2 

Blanket bag, coat straps, pair ............................. 1 

Canteen ................................................ 

Canteen strap ............................................ 

Haversack .............................................. 1 

Haversack strap .......................................... 

Tin cup .................................................. 

Meat can ................................................. 

Knife ...................... . 

Fork .................................................... 

Spoon ................................................... 



Ounces. 

5.50 
5.25 
15 

4 

4 
10 

1 

14 
14.75 

6 

6.60 
6.25 
14.75 
2.12 
2.13 
1.50 



Total. 



28 



11 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 321 
EQUIPAGE AND ADDITIONAL CLOTHING CARRIED BY THE SOLDIER. 

Pound*. Ounce*. 

Drawers tl -. 

Undershirt . . 

Flannel shirt ".'.'.'.'. 

Stockings ... 

Towel. 

Shoes '/ p ] ] 2 

Trousers " Q /> 

Poncho . . .' 

Blanket ....I....'.".'"! 

Shelter tent half, with poles and pins 8 

Total ~18 lo" 

RATIONS WHICH MAY BE CARRIED BY THE SOLDIER (THREE DAYS). 

Pound* Ounce*. 

Bacon 2 4 

Hard bread 8 

Coffee, roasted ' 4 

Sugar 

salt I!..!!!!.".*!*..*.*!:.'.*.'! 2 

Water carried in canteen (full) ... . 2 12 

Total . , : "9 ~o 

SUMMARY. 

Pounds. Ounret, 

Clothing worn on person 18 125 

Anns and equipment 27 12 

Rations, three days 9 

Equipage and additional clothing '. .18 15 



78 



! t _':, 



To this may be added the personal accessories, such as soap, comb, 
tobacco, matches, pocket knife and money, weighing approximately one 
pound, making seventy-four pounds fourteen and one-fourth ounces the 
maximum allowance to be carried by the soldier. 

According to Kirschner, the maximum weights to be carried by the 
infantrymen of different foreign armies, in 1893, were as follows: 

Kilogram*. Pound*. 

Italy 88.001) 73* 

Germany 82.427 ?U 

Switzerland 80.875 66f 

France 80.666 65 

Russia 89.606 65 

Austria 29.480 64| 

England 28.822 88 

Belgium 28.000 61* 

Since these figures were given it is understood that the weight of the 
equipment in the French and German armies has been gradually reduced, 
through tTu> omission and lightening of articles and the use of aluminum, 
to 26 kilograms in both instances. 

From the above figures it requires no argument to demonstrate th fad 
that the weight to be carried by the soldier in nearly all countries is in 
excess of the practical as well as the theoretical maximum, and that fur- 
21 



322 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

further reduction is desirable for hygienic as well as tactical reasons. 
Heavily loaded troops can march neither rapidly nor to any great distance, 
and the aggregate strength is proportionately weakened by the carriage of 
every superfluous article ; for the men who do the fighting are those who 
keep well up in the ranks. The carrying of the equipment was estimated 
by Lewal to deprive the soldier of one-third of his mobility ; he believing 
that the traversing by the French soldier of 40 kilometers in heavy march- 
ing order entailed the expenditure of as much energy as a march of 60 
kilometers without such burden. Thurnwald states that the soldier should 
not carry a burden greater than one -third of his own weight if it is desired 
that he should maintain reasonable freedom of action on the march and -in 
battle. Since many young soldiers do not weigh more than 50 to 60 
kilograms (130 to 135 pounds), he estimates that the total weight of the 
clothing and equipments should not exceed 20 kilograms (45 pounds). 
According to Laveran, experiments made recently in Germany with 
marches of 25 to 28 kilometers and weights of 22 to 31 kilograms, under 
varying conditions of temperature, showed that with a burden not greater 
than 22 kilograms and a distance not greater than 25 to 28 kilometers, 
such a march in an average temperature might be considered purely as 
salutary exercise. In hot weather these same conditions gave rise to un- 
favorable symptoms ; which, however, disappeared after a few hours' rest, 
without bad results. With a weight of 27 kilograms, during marches of 
a similar length, if the weather was cool and favorable no bad effects were 
noted, but if, on the contrary, the march was made in hot weather, very 
serious symptoms resulted. These experiments showed that a weight of 
31 kilograms (68 pounds) is much too great to be carried under any cir- 
cumstances. Laveran places a weight of 27 kilograms (59 pounds) as 
the maximum burden for marches of 22 to 28 kilometers during warm 
weather in temperate climates. These figures would seem to be too high, 
and for such conditions anything over 50 pounds is probably excessive. 

Prolonged marching under too great burden has been found to induce 
a gradual weakening of the constitution of the soldier, analogous to the 
lassitude and loss of muscular tone observed in over-trained athletes, and 
this systematic depression plays an important part in favoring susceptibility 
to infectious disease. It is a matter of common knowledge in European 
armies that increase in the sick-rate follows the autumn manoeuvers ; this 
being largely attributed to the more ready infection depending upon the 
exhaustion following the severe marching under heavy equipment which 
the troops are forced to perform. 

Reduction of Weight. Napoleon believed in reducing the equip- 
ment as much as possible, but named the weapon, cartridges, knapsack, 
four days' rations and the pioneer's tools as the five things which should 
never be separated from the soldier. As to additional articles, he believed 
that the soldier in the field could do well with a spare shirt, extra pair of 
shoes, stock and kerchief comprising his equipment. At present, such an 
-outfit would be regarded as wholly insufficient. 

Where the soldier carries his own equipment, the multiplication of 
articles for his comfort or efficiency is highly inadvisable, since, beyond a 
certain point, the inconvenience of weight far overbalances the advantages 
of possession. The allowance of the soldier, while containing the neces- 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 323 

saries, should not include a single article not absolutely required; the tm- 
deiicy properly being to diminish the equipment, both in weight and num- 
ber of parts, rather than to increase it. When rapid or forced marches are 
required, the soldier will usually march with no burden except the cloth- 
ing worn on the person, the armament and necessary rations. The weight 
of the latter should be reduced where possible by the use of emergency 
rations, and these may profitably be transported by the soldier only 
when the necessity for their possession is imminent ; at which tyne they 
should 1 served out from the wagon train or depot. 

In reducing the weight of ^ the equipment of the United States soldier 
the extra pair of trousers may* advantageously be removed from the list of 
articles already given. The carriage of an additional ]>air of shoes is a 
severe tax on the strength of the soldier, and, where communication with 
the base of supplies is excellent, they, too, may perhaps be subtracted from 
the burden to be carried. The poncho may frequently be omitted, particu- 
larly if the outer clothing has been water-proofed. The overcoat is neces- 
sary only in cold climates and for about one-third of the year, and the 
same applies to heavy-weight clothing and underclothing. This places 
the minimum weight to be carried by the soldier in the field, in temperate 
climates, as follows : ' 

Pound*. Ounce*. 

Clothing on the person 10 

Armament and ammunition, 100 rounds 18 10 

Canying apparatus (exclusive of blanket bag) 4 6 

Water and rations for one day 8 8 

Blanket 5 

Shelter-tent (without pole3 or phis) 2 8 

Undershirt 1 

Overshirt 1 

Drawers and stockings 1 

Small articles 1 

Total 48 

Or, less the ordinary clothing, about thirty-eight or thirty-nine pounds. 
While this is not a heavy weight to lift, it is certainly a very heavy 
weight to carry for a day's journey of fifteen to eighteen miles, and yet 
must be considered as light when compared with the usual equipment car- 
ried by the soldiers of foreign nations. With the allowance as enumerated 
above the soldier will be comfortable in warm and dry seasons, and need 
suffer no great hardship even during comparatively inclement weather. 
The further decrease of the clothing and equipment to thirty-seven pounds 
is possible; but this necessitates the abandonment of all but the clothing 
worn on the person, the armament, ammunition and rations. Such reduc- 
tion, however, is rarely advisable from a tactical point of view and never 
from that of hygiene, since, when deprived of his blanket roll, the soldier 
is exposed to all the vicissitudes save that of hunger, and even under the 
best & circumstances cannot long maintain his military existence. On 
this account it is dangerous to abandon even temporarily the equipment 
on going into action, since, if defeated and forced to retreat, disorganization 
the more certainly follows. This, however, is one of the fortunes of war 
which military commanders will probably continue to hazard. 

Diminution in the number of articles composing the equipment, if ex- 



324 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

tra clothing is to be carried, seems scarcely possible under present condi- 
tions, particularly in cold weather. For reduction of weight the next most 
promising field lies in the substitution of aluminum for other metals wher- 
ever possible, this readily permitting a decrease of weight amounting to 
about two pounds. Such a possible reduction, though at first thought ap- 
parently of but trifling importance, would nevertheless conduce greatly to 
the comfort and efficiency of the soldier for two pounds carried twenty 
miles implies the expenditure of energy equal to that required to transport 
forty pounds through one mile. It should not be forgotten, however, in 
this connection, that the adoption of a small-caliber rifle, by which the 
weight of the individual cartridge was reduced, was hailed with delight 
by the tacticians, who, instead of regarding the reduction in weight as a 
gain in efficiency of the soldier, proceeded to bring up the burden to 
its original weight by more than doubling the amount of ammunition to 
be transported. Hence it is not improbable that the accomplishment of 
further reduction in weight would simply serve as a pretext for the addi- 
tion of other articles, the carriage of which by the soldier is at present 
confessedly impossible. The French have endeavored to reduce weight by 
abolishing individual camp utensils and issuing somewhat larger ones to 
each group of four or five men. This plan, while of advantage in a service 
where soups and stews form the chief food of the soldier, and where bulky 
kettles are consequently required, would obviously not be advisable in con- 
nection with a ration composed as is that of our army. 

In considering the reduction of the equipment, it is well to remember 
that the soldier, particularly the recruit, starts out on campaign with the 
full authorized allowance, including duplicates of most garments, and is 
also prone to add various smaller articles which are fancied to be neces- 
sary to comfort. These latter should be carefully eliminated by inspection 
of the outfit before taking the field, and the soldier restricted to the official 
allowance; the latter also being advantageously diminished when circum- 
stances warrant the removal of such articles as may not appear to be essen- 
tial. With hard marching, however, the soldier is apt to take the other 
extreme and lighten his load at the expense of even the more essential 
articles, trusting to good fortune to supply the deficiencies thereby created. 
This tendency, like that of overloading, is a marked characteristic of raw 
or ill-disciplined troops and should always be rigorously repressed. 

Disposition of the Equipment. The greatest care is necessary in 
adjusting the burden of the infantry soldier, common experience showing 
that the transportation of the equipment is more or less fatiguing and in- 
jurious as it is carried in one or another manner. In practice, it is prob- 
ably not so much the actual weight as it is the arrangement of the effects 
which is oppressive to the soldier. 

The effect of heavy burdens, tight clothing and poorly distributed and 
disposed equipment in the production of heart-strain, as noted elsewhere, 
has long been understood the mode of action being analyzed by Taylor 
as follows : The tightly buttoned coat, cartridge belt and gathered trousers 
compress the waist and thorax, and thus impair the movements of the dia- 
phragm and of costal expansion. The weight of the gun and equipment 
holds the shoulders back, impedes motion of the upper portion of the chest, 
and with this arrest of the respiration there is an impairment of the circu- 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 

lation of the blood through the lungs; hence there is an accumulation of 
blood in the right heart and venous system which extends to the venous 
radicles and capillaries. The burden thrown on the right side of the heart 
is too much for it, and hence there is a lessened amount of blood sent to 
the left ventricle, which diminishes the amount sent through the coronary 
arteries for its own support as well as the amount sent to the nervous 
centers. Therefore, the nerves and heart fail for want of nutrition and 
support. In time of war the stress on the heart becomes greatly increased. 
Additional burdens are carried, and these, together with rapid marches, 
deployments, alignments, and the 
bodily fatigue and great mental 
strain incident to battle, power- 
fully attect the heart to its per- 
manent injury. 

Aitken states that "next to 
the continuous inspiration of bad 
air the imperfect or continuously 
obstructed expansion of the chest 
(by the equipment) does most to 
bring about diseases of the heart 
and lungs." Viry observed de- 
formity of the thorax following 
the constant carriage of heavy 
equipment by immature young 
men ; while Woodhull states that 
with such youths even the straps 
of the canteen and haversack 
may press upon them to their 
disadvantage. The frequency of 
the pulse is naturally much 
greater in men who execute mili- 
tary exercise with the full equip- 
ment than in those who execute 
the same movement without these 

burdens. Parkes noted that the average rate of 124 resulting from a march 
of five hundred yards without the knapsack was increased to 148 over 
the same course with the knapsack, while respirations were proportionately 
accelerated. 

The weights should be so disposed that, when carried, they fall as near 
as possible to the center of gravity. This, in the upright position, is be- 
tween the pelvis and the center of the body, usually between the umbilicus 
and the pubis a vertical line prolonged to the ground passing through the 
astragalus just in front of the os calcis. This point naturally alters with 
each change of position, while if weights are carried away from this verti- 
cal Ime the center of gravity is entirely displaced. Hence the centers of 
gravity of the burden and of the body should coincide as closely as possi- 
ble. The great re the distance of the load from this point the greater its 
leverage and apparent weight; and thus a lighter article of equipment, 
some distance from the center of gravity, will serve to balance a much 
heavier weight placed opposite but closer to the line passing perpend icular- 




Fio. 117. Improper and Proper Method of 
the Equipment. (After Laveran.) 



326 THEOEY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ly through this center. . It is of the greatest practical importance that the 
equipment should be so disposed and balanced that the bodily equilibrium 
is naturally maintained without the unnecessary expenditure of muscular 
energy for constant effort at balancing rapidly induces fatigue. The 
burden is also more readily borne as its points of support are increased, and 
the weight should be distributed as much as possible over the person so as 
to avoid the excessive fatiguing of one group of muscles. The back, 
shoulders and pelvic brim must bear the brunt of the strain, and straps 
from the shoulders and waist distribute the weight more advantageously. 
The lumbar straps seen in the British equipment and the Novior and Mer- 
riam packs support a large proportion of the burden. The practice of sus- 
pending nearly the entire equipment from the shoulders, as is done with 
the blanket-bag used in our service, possesses many serious defects. 
Weight carried on the pelvic structures is borne in the strongest part of 
the body and will be carried with less distress than if suspended from the 
shoulders. Further, the soldier who slightly loses his equilibrium re- 
quires the expenditure of less effort for its recovery if the weight is closer 
to the ground, and the leverage shorter, than when the weight is placed 
further above the center of gravity of the body and the march is a con- 
stant alteration in equilibrium. Per contra, the burden must not be so 
low as to interfere mechanically with locomotion or constrict the muscles 
which are concerned in marching. The weight must in no case compress on 
the lungs, or in any way interfere with respiratory movements or the elimi- 
nation of carbonic acid, or hinder the transmission of blood through the 
lungs, or render difficult the action of the heart. It is self-evident that 
the distribution of the burden carried by the soldier should be such that 
no large nerves, blood-vessels or important muscles are pressed upon. It 
is equally important that the leverage pressure resulting from placing a 
weight outside the line of support, with the corresponding constriction of 
straps which hold it there, must be reduced to the minimum and dis- 
tributed to points where it will do least harm. As far as possible the 
space of actual contact of the burden with the body of the carrier must be 
also reduced, in order that he may not become overheated in the midst of 
, his exertions. The carriage of an undue amount of weight suspended from 
the belt is inconvenient and injurious, the resulting compression of the ab- 
dominal walls .and viscera being highly undesirable. 

Carrying Apparatus. In addition to the requirements already enu- 
merated, the pack or knapsack should be simple in design, as well as light, 
durable and water-proof. It should be easily put on and easily removed, 
so as to leave the soldier but the ammunition, water and ration. It goes 
without saying that free use of the hands and arms in manipulating the 
weapon or in overcoming obstacles is essential, and that all belts and ap- 
}>aratus necessary for the carriage of the equipment should be as light and 
comfortable as possible. 

In our own service the method of carrying the equipment is certainly 
in a transitionary and highly unsatisfactory state. Formerly the spare 
clothing and small articles were carried in a: heavy and generally objec- 
tionable knapsack, but during the Civil War "at the opening of the spring 
campaigns our soldiers, heavily weighted with the old-fashioned knapsacks 
and the accumulation of the winter, after the first few miles, exhausted 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 

by their packs, availed themselves of a favorable opportunity to stop by 
the roadside and to take from their knapsacks a few things, which they 
rolled in their blankets, the ends of which they tied together and slung 
over their shoulders, abandoning all other articles of clothing." Such an 
extemporized arrangement did not so much imply approval of the blanket 
roll, which thus came into existence, as condemnation of the carrying ap- 
paratus furnished at that time. Had the troops been provided with an 
easy fitting, light and comfortable knapsack, and had they in the first place 
been prevented from overloading themselves with the many useless articles 
always found in the kit of the volunteer recruit, it may be doubted whether 
the blanket-roll would ever have made its appearance. In 1878 a general 
equipment board commented as follows: "The blanket-roll, during our 
wars, has superseded all knapsacks and is strongly advocated by officers of 
high rank and great experience, but it is believed by the board that the 
blanket-roll is in favor among soldiers, not so much because it is the best 
way of carrying the kit, as because all other devices thus far adopted or 
tried have been comparatively so inferior." Such opinion, expressed twenty 
years before, was also applicable during the Spanish-American war, when 
the carriage of the equipment in this manner was almost wholly the rule 
among our troops. 

The blanket-roll is excellent for light marching order, but if, in addi- 
tion to the shelter tent, the overcoat and poncho are also included in the 
roll, the latter becomes both heavy and cumbersome. Under such circum- 
stances the poncho might be omitted if the blanket and overcoat were 
water-proofed, and the latter could perhaps be rolled and carried separately 
above the sacrum by a strap arrangement similar to that used in the Brit- 
ish service. As compared with the blanket-bag the roll is much sujwrior, 
has the advantage of not so greatly impeding respiration and circulation, 
and is hence carried with much less discomfort and fatigue. Even though 
comparatively superior to the blanket-bag, the roll is, however, possessed of 
several positive defects. The kit carried in this manner is somewhat in- 
secure, and in warm weather the enveloping blanket-roll does much to 
overheat the soldier. The breast is to a certain degree oppressed, the 
clothing held against the person and the ready manipulation of the piece 
impaired. These disadvantages are very marked when the full equipment 
is carried in the roll. 

An improvement over the simple roll consists in the use of a canvas 
clothing case four and one-half feet long, eight inches wide and having a 
weight of about eight ounces. This is divided for the sake of convenience 
into three compartments by transverse stitching, will contain the ordinary 
kit of the soldier and is itself carried in the rolled blanket. It has a spe- 
cial value in preventing the soiling or dispersion of the articles of the equij>- 
ii MM it after camp has been established, and the shelter tent and blanket 
have been removed to furnish protection against storm and cold. 

The- blanket-bag officially prescribed for use in our military service is 
possessed of few good qualities and many grave defects. Intended for 
use in campaign, it is uniformly left behind by troops taking the field the 
blanket-roll being preferably employed and hence fails absolutely of fulfil- 
ling the sole purpose for which it is provided. The blanket-bag is heavy, 
cumbersome and illy designed. Receiving its entire support from the 



328 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




shoulders, together with the haversack and canteen, it aids greatly in plac- 
ing the entire weight of the equipment, except the ammunition, on a 
limited space much above the center of gravity. The bag itself is un- 
necessarily broad, and the increased leverage so provided for its contents 

results in a powerful tendency toward 
pulling the soldier backward, requiring 
a constant and highly undesirable ex- 
penditure of muscular force, and the 
assumption of a constrained position, 
in the maintenance of equilibrium. 
In arranging the present equipment 
there appears to have been no attempt, 
through the disposition of weights an- 
teriorly, to compensate for the heavy 
burden carried behind. Canteen and 
haversack are slung from the shoul- 
ders, their cross straps doing much 
to embarrass the soldier on the march, 
and are naturally pushed to the rear 
to facilitate locomotion. The cart- 
ridge belt, the solitary article of the 
present equipment not suspended from 
the shoulders, and the only one re- 
ceiving support close to the center of 
gravity, is unfortunately heaviest in 
the rear and lightest in front, where a 
broad buckle takes the place of the 

more weighty cartridges. Hence, if the soldier be divided laterally by an 
imaginary vertical plane, it is found that the following weights are dis- 
posed over the posterior half of the body : 

Blanket bag, packed ". 29 pounds. 

Cartridges and belt (portion) 4 " 

Canteen, full 2J 

Haversack and mess kit 2$ 

Ration, one day 2 u 

Total 40i " 

To offset this heavy weight no provision is made save in the portion of 
the cartridge belt and smaller fraction of the cartridge supply, weighing 
in all not more than three pounds, lying in front of the bisecting plane. 
Bearing these facts in mind, it is not strange that troops evade carrying the 
blanket-bag whenever possible, throw it away if hard pressed, and, when 
compelled to carry it, stagger in at the conclusion of the march in a con- 
dition of exhaustion and with the body inclined forward at an angle of 30 
or 35. The painful constriction of the axillary vessels and nerves by the 
encircling straps of the blanket-bag is often sufficient to produce numbness 
and swelling of the upper extremities, while the constant tension on the 
squared shoulders greatly impedes the costal respiratory movements, espe- 
cially when the soldier is fatigued. Lying, as it does, close to the person, 
it overheats the back during the march and predisposes to chilling after its 



FIG. 118. Blanket-bag and Equipment Used in 
the United States.Anny. 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 829 

removal. At the same time, not being sufficiently restrained at the bottom, 
every step causes it to swing after the manner of a pendulum; each stride 
being accompanied by a blow over the lumbar spine which, always dis- 
agreeable, becomes most distressing and painful during a long march. 

It is safe to say that the present blanket-bag is the most vicious article 
of the equipment of the United States soldier. Its use, even for short 
marches, is responsible for much discomfort, and its absolute worthlessness 
for field service is practically demonstrated beyond the possibility of dis- 
cussion by the fact that it is never willingly used by troops in campaign. 
It cannot be too quickly discarded officially in favor of a modified blanket 
roll, or, better, some such more rational apparatus as the valise of the 
British foot service, the Merriam pack or the Novior knapsack. 

For the pack devised by General Merriam the following claims, which 
appear to have been substantiated by ample experience, have been advanced 
by the inventor : 

" First. It places a large proportion of the weight of the soldier's pack 
directly upon the strong bones of the hips, relieving the shoulders and 
spinal column from strain. 

"Second. The stiff' side braces stand in the direct line of the shock 
produced by the act of marching, viz., that of the advanced leg as it comes 
to the ground; hence they receive the 
shock and transfer it to the strong base of 
support above named. 

"Third. It prevents all pressure upon 
the shoulder blades, leaving the shoulders 
and arms entirely free for action, and al- 
lows free ventilation of the back the pack 
not even touching it necessarily. 

"Fourth. The shoulder straps, by their 
form and vertical attachment, no longer 
press upon the nerves and vessels of the 
armpits, consequently preventing numbness 
and swelling of the hands. 

"Fifth. The invention avoids every 
form of cross belt, leaving the chest entirely 
free from constriction, so that the coat and 
even the waist belt may be thrown open 
on a hot march without deranging the 
equipment. 

" Sixth. It distributes the weight and 
shock of the pack, and removes leverage 
and constriction from the vital parts of 
the body to such an extent that the pack 

is now arranged to contain rations, as well as clothing, extra cartridges, 
etc.; "Wius dispensing with the cumbersome and unsightly haversack, 
heretofore carried under the arm by a c-ross belt, and tolerated only from 
necessit . 

" Seventh. The side braces are interchangeable, and are easily detached 
from the pack and joined together, forming an excellent pole for the shelter 
tent. 




Flo. 119. -Mortem r* k. 



330 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

"Eighth. The equipment is adjustable to all sizes and forms of men, 
and is light, simple and serviceable in all its parts. 

"Ninth. It sustains the cartridge box, or belt, in exact position, 
whether full or empty, thus avoiding the necessity for wearing the waist- 
belt tight and uncomfortable. 

" Tenth. In case of an accident to the side braces which cannot be met 
at once by their interchangeability, the equipment is instantly convertible, 
so as to be carried temporarily upon the shoulders. 

"Eleventh. This single equipment is adapted to the lightest as well as 
the heaviest marching order." 

While the blanket bag constantly presses on one place, this pack can 
be adjusted so as to bring the weight either on the hips or shoulders as 
desired. This change can be made while marching. The freedom of the 
body is not impaired by this apparatus, nor is there any galling of the back, 
shoulders and axillae through pressure so common with the regulation 
equipment. Its use permits an erect carriage not possible where the 
blanket bag is worn. The weight, of course, varies with the articles car- 
ried, but is only slightly greater with the same equipment than when the 
blanket-roll is employed. 

This pack has been thoroughly tested in the Seventh United States 
Infantry for the past six years and has recently been issued to other regi- 
ments for trial, while it has been adopted by the National Guard of New 
York, New Jersey and other states. In Europe, the general principle upon 
which this pack is based has been adopted in the armies of France and 
Austria. Wherever used it appears to have given satisfaction as an ap- 
paratus constructed on rational principles will naturally do. 

That this, or a similar method for carrying the equipment, has not been 
generally adopted in our service, appears to be due rather to the attitude of 
the Ordnance Department than to that of such line officers as have had op- 
portunity for practical comparison between the blanket-bag and this appa- 
ratus. A theoretical objection which has been urged is that this pack is 
so intricate that its usefulness is largely impaired. The regiment above 
named, however, was probably the only one which carried the equipment 
in the expedition against Santiago in any other manner than the blanket- 
roll, a fact that speaks volumes in the favor of this apparatus as compared 
with both the blanket-bag and roll. 

To the suggestion that this pack be made in divisible form, as is done 
in France and Austria, General Merriam replies as follows : " We can make 
a divisible pack if desired, of course, but it will cost more and necessarily 
weigh more, while having perhaps one doubtful advantage, viz., that a part 
of the pack can be removed to wagons, when possible, in a body. It has 
seemed to me that my pack, when properly comprehended, provides for 
all this better than the divisible pack. When the divisible pack is di- 
vided the center of gravity is greatly changed of course, as the remainder 
of the pack retains its old position. My plan avoids the disturbing of the 
balance, or center of gravity, by removing articles not required for imme- 
diate use, whether from the interior of the pack or from the exterior, and 
thus leaving the remainder with center of gravity unchanged." If neces- 
sary to divide the kit, "which would seldom be exactly the same, as cir- 
cumstances would constantly vary, I propose that each soldier be furnished 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 



331 



for campaign with a small muslin sack, about as large as a pillow case, to be 
marked with his company, regiment and number. This he could fold up 
in his pack ordinarily and have it always ready to receive any articles 
which could lw spared from the pack proper, as indicated to meet the 
emergencies of campaign. These sacks would cost perhaps five cents, and 
weigh six ounces empty, yet they would serve to cover and identify the 
soldier's kit to be spared temporarily. By this method the soldier can 
always be relieved from carrying on his back such articles as he must have 
for a campaign, and yet does not need for use during the constantly recur- 
ring short periods of separation from supply trains. " 

The Novior apparatus, recently designed on the general principles shown 
in the Merriam pack, is now being practically tested in the Belgian army. 
The knapsack portion is made of 
water-proof cotton duck, stretched 
on a wicker frame, the weight of 
the entire apparatus being said to 
l>e only about two and one-half 
pounds. This apparatus is con- 
structed on rational principles and 
appears to avoid the several minor 
disadvantages presented by the Mer- 
riam equipment. At present, with a 
few slight changes to better suit the 
special needs of our service, it would 
probably be the best apparatus for 
carrying the equipment which could 
l>e adopted for use in the military 
establishment of the United States. 

Among foreign nations the best 
arrangement for the carriage of the 
equipment has been claimed to be 
that of the British service, in which 
the shoulders and sacrum are used 
as points of support. As stated by Notter and Firth, the pack is suspended 
at the level of the loins by two shoulder straps fastened to the waist belt in 
front. It is very light and simple, the movements of the arms, shoulders, 
and chest are remarkably free, while the pack can be readily detached from 
the rest of the equipment by merely unbuckling the belt. According to 
other observers, however, it would seem that this apparatus still leaves 
much to be desired ; its defects being clearly pointed out in the report on 
mobilization of the First Army Corps, in 1896, as follows: 

"(1) When packed, the valise is convex at the back and is therefore 
constantly wobbling. 

" (2) Without ball ammunition it is badly balanced. 

" (3XJ*racticaUy the whole strain comes on the braces, which cut into 
the shofilders and check lung expansion. 

"(4) The weight is so distributed that the heaviest portion, i.e., the 
great-coat, is carried on the 'waist and drags on the loins. 

" (5) Equipment cannot be taken off and put on quickly without assist- 
ance." 




FIG. 130. The Novior KnapMrk. 



332 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



On a short man all these drawbacks are emphasized. The lower the 
valise equipment hangs the more it drags ; and yet if raised much above 

the man's shoulders it prevents 

the circulation of air about the 

neck. Again, any thickening of 

the valise by putting the great-coat 

either inside or outside the flap is 

to be deprecated, having in view 

the increased strain on the shoul- 
ders caused by leverage. The 

English valise is made of japanned 

canvas. The mess tin may be 

carried on or under the overcoat or 

may be attached to the waist belt. 

The cartridges are located in front 

to offset, as far as possible, the 

weight behind. 

The Austrian kit is carried in 

a leather knapsack strapped in the 

overcoat, to which a camp kettle is 

fastened. The whole is at once 

detached from the person by draw- 
ing a pin in the right shoulder strap. 
The arrangement of the Russian 

equipment is in general similar to 
the blanket-roll used by our own troops. A large canvas bag is suspended 
from each shoulder ; the one on the right containing small articles and the 
one on the left the ration. The overcoat is rolled in the shelter-tent and 




FiO. 121. British In- 
fantryman, Showing 
Method of Carrying 
the Equipment. (Af- 
ter Laveran.) 




FIO. 122. Disposition of 
Equipment In the Aus- 
trian Army. 






FIO. 123. Russian Infantryman, FIO. 124. French Infantryman. FIO. 186. German Infantryman. 
Fully Equipped. (After Laveran.) (After Vlry.) 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 



slung over the left shoulder, a case containing the extra pair of boot* being 
attached to the clothing roll. 

The French soldier carries a leather knapsack upon which the blanket 
is strapped ; and the carriage of the equipment in the Italian service is 
similar. In the German army the kit is carried in a leather knapsack 
strapped to the overcoat, the camp kettle being attached to the latter. The 
haversack, to which a drinkiug-cup is attached by a clip, is worn on the 
right side, the entrenching tool and bayonet being carried on the left hip. 

Under any circumstances, whatever be the weight carried or the method 
or apparatus employed, 
the more ready transpor- 
tation of the equipment 
is to be accomplished 
by the soldier only as the 
result of long experience 
and careful training. 



THE MESS OUTFIT. 

Under this heading 
may be conveniently 
grouped the meat can, 
tin cup, knife, fork and 
spoon, together with the 
canteen. The first- 
named utensil is of 
stamped metal and made 
on a pattern shown by 
experience to be best 
suited to the preparation 
and preservation of the 
field ration. It is com- 
posed of two shallow 
oval dishes held in ap- 
position by a folding 
handle, the space be- 
tween them serving 
during the march as a 
receptacle for the meat 
ration. It appears to be satisfactory in all respects save that of weight, the 
latter at present being needlessly great through the persistent use of heavy 

metal and the same remarks apply also to the tin cup. The knife and 

fork supplied are excellent, but the spoon may advantageously be made of 
lighter >aterial. The canteen is well proportioned and of sufficient sire for 
all but tropical service, but for the sake of the greater coolness of iU con- 
tents a layer of heavy felt should be placed under the present covering of 
white cotton duck. It is a question whether the addition of a small orifice 
at the top for the admission of air, capable of being tightly corked, would 
not be justified by the increased convenience afforded while drinking. 




FIG. !.- Pnwton MB-Mt, UnpMM. 



834 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



The Preston mess outfit is an ingenious combination by which the mess 
tins, cup, knife, fork and spoon are all nested around the canteen, inside 
a felt-lined canvas cover suspended from a strap of webbing. The utensils 
are made of aluminum, and when placed together are very compact and 
portable. The complete outfit, with empty canteen, weighs just one pound, 
or two pounds less than the same articles of the present outfit. As men- 
tioned elsewhere, in an ordinary march of twenty miles this represents a 
saving in energy equal to that required for the transportation of practically 
the entire equipment of the soldier through one mile. The advantage in 

decreased weight is positive; the 
disadvantages which may be urged 
against this special form of outfit are : 

(1) That the metal is too soft 
and bends readily. 

(2) That the entire outfit has to 
be unpacked to get at the cup, in case 
it is desired to take advantage of a 
water supply on the march. 

(3) That the cup is too narrow 
on the bottom, and is insecure when 
placed on the fire for cooking purposes. 

(4) That the end of the cup is too 
sharp and hurts the lips while drink- 
ing. 

(5) That the special metal used, 
being an extremely good conductor of 
heat, is liable to induce burns of the 
lips. 

From the standpoint of hygiene 
these defects, though real, do not 
counterbalance the great advantages 
of diminution of weight and increased 
portability. 

Whatever be the special pattern 
in which the mess ontfit is to be sup- 
plied, on account of the combined lightness and strength of aluminum its 
several articles, save the knife and fork, should preferably be made of this 
metal. The cost of aluminum is no longer a bar to its employment, and 
the retention of the present material requires the carriage of a wholly un- 
necessary weight on the part of the soldier. . In the French, German, Bel- 
gian and other armies this metal has been adopted for the manufacture of 
canteens and cooking utensils as well as cap ornaments, buckles, shoe 
nails and such other metallic portions of the equipment as could be made 
of this material after exhaustive trials in which its superior merits for 
such purposes have been amply demonstrated. 

Aluminum is strong, resists oxidation better than iron, is easily cleaned 
and is remarkable for its lightness; its density being 2.56 where that of 
iron is 7.7 and that of copper is 8.78. Its melting-point is 700 C., and 
hence it is not readily fused. According to Plagge, aluminum is such a 
good conductor of heat that cooking is more readily accomplished with it 




FIG. 127. Preston Mess-kit, Packed. 



MILITARY CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. 335 

than with iron utensils. The same observer found that distilled water did 
not affect aluminum, but boiling* with water containing a large proportion 
of iron gave a slight deposit of sulphate of iron on the metal. The latter was 
also attacked by vinegar in the strength of four to six jer cent, of acetic 
acid ; alloys of aluminum with tin or antimony being more readily corroded 
than the pure metal. Longuet noted that food cooked in aluminum uten- 
sils was entirely free from metallic taste. After long standing in the 
presence of coffee he found a slight precipitation of tanuate of aluminum ; 
and with hard water, after a long time, of minute insoluble masses of sili- 
cate of aluminum. Such small amounts of alum have, however, no toxic 
significance. This metal is very bright and hence should be blackened 
externally when used for military purposes, as is done in the German 
army. 

Aluminum has not been adopted in our service through the apprehen- 
sion of the Ordnance Department that it would not prove to be of sufficient 
durability, but in the light of the ample experience of other countries this 
objection would not seem to be well founded. The official report made by 
Balland to the French Minister of War on the use of aluminum utensils 
in the recent Madagascar campaign was entirely favorable to their use, the 
report concluding with the statement that this metal is "durable, and little 
influenced by fire, fluids or solids." Articles made of the alloys of alum- 
inum appear to be more satisfactory for military use than those made of 
the pure metal, being stiller and much less liable to injury. 



CHAPTER VII. 

CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 
I. 

CAMP SITES. 

SANITARY preference, in the selection of the camp site, must often yield 
to military necessity ; but the extent to which the former may be disre- 
garded is only to be measured by the exigencies of the military situation. 
When in the face of the enemy and the camp is but for a single night, 
military reasons may justifiably prevail a possible future diminution of 
efficiency being accepted as the price of present position but under other 
conditions sanitary requirements should, as far as possible, govern. At all 
times, however, even in conditions of peace, certain limitations as to selec- 
tion are necessarily imposed. Troops en route must always encamp near 
the line of march, irrespective of topographical conditions, and the prox- 
imity to a suitable water supply often determines the site. Nevertheless, 
under all conditions, however unfavorable they may be, there is always a 
certain latitude of choice and a best disposition which can be made. 

The proper location of the camp, as a matter of the greatest importance 
in maintaining the health and efficiency of troops, demands intelligent 
and careful consideration. The site should always be selected as if for 
continued occupancy ; since it may frequently happen, particularly during 
campaign, that the intended bivouac becomes, through necessity, a camp of 
semi-permanent character. Hence it should be remembered that there are 
many places which at certain seasons of the year may be safely occupied 
for a short period, where to encamp at other times would invite disaster. 
The camping ground should be chosen with a view to the convenience of 
the command, should permit of ready internal communication, and should 
be located, if at all of a permanent character, near a road practicable for 
wheeled vehicles. Possible meteorological conditions should always be 
taken into consideration, and the locality, should never be such as could 
receive the overflow of a water-course or the surface drainage from high 
ground during rain-storms. 

The desiderata in the selection of the camp site, from the standpoint 
of the line officer, are wood, water and grass ; in abundance and of good 
quality. To these the sanitary officer will add dryness of soil and sur- 
roundings, elevation of site and protection from winds. 

No sanitary precautions can fully atone for the selection of an un- 
healthful camp site, even though they will do much toward the diminu- 
tion of sickness, and hence the prompt re-establishment of a badly located 
camp in a more desirable locality is imperative. On the other hand, the 
best of natural sites will quickly be rendered unhealthful by inefficient 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 337 

police and disregard of soil contamination but with the observance of 
proper sanitary regulations and a careful police an originally good camp- 
ing ground will continue to be healthful for a proportionately longer time. 

An abandoned camp site should never be utili/ed by another command, 
for the slightly greater labor involved in the clearing or arrangement of a 
new camp area is more than counterbalanced by the increased safety of 
the troops. Old camp-grounds may be considered as permeated with the 
organic soakage incident to human occupation ; soil contamination is cer- 
tain, and there is a strong probability of its specific infection. In the rare 
cases where military necessity requires the occupancy of ground in the 
vicinity of old sinks, the latter may be dug out and the contents removed 
five or six feet of the surrounding earth being also taken away disin- 
fection by lime practiced, and the pit filled with fresh earth. Such sites, 
however, are used in defiance of the laws of hygiene and obviously should 
always be avoided. 

Topography. While many factors combine to determine the health- 
fulness of localities, there are certain physical features of the surface of 
the earth which, as shown by exj)erience, may be accepted as fair indica- 
tions of the salubrity of the location in which they occur. Every region 
has its character impressed upon its surface contours, and the significance 
of these the sanitary officer should be able to interpret at a glance. Wide 
and flat areas will, as a rule, indicate a soft subsoil, while a steep gradient 
implies the presence of an underlying stratum of some hard material, such 
as gravel. Rock will usually be apparent through its outcroppinga ; but, 
in general, the slope of a subjacent impermeable layer will approximate 
that of the surface itself. The amount of soil moisture may be excellently 
estimated from the character of existing vegetation ; in many cases even 
the height of the ground water may be determined by reference to the 
level of some neighboring lake or river. 

High ground should always be selected for the camp site ; since not 
only is the surface drainage better but exposure to air currents, as well 
as lessened atmospheric pressure, increases the rapidity of evaporation. 
Elevated table lands are always salubrious. Situations at the liase of hills 
are usually unhealthful, since the ground water, coming from a higher 
elevation, is checked in its flow by the sudden change of grade and forced 
to the surface but such a site may be acceptable if a deep, transverse 
ravine completely intercepts drainage from the high ground behind it. 

Camps should never be located in ravines or the dry beds of water-courses 
Air currents follow the trend of ravines the movement being upward 
during the heat of the day and downward at night and it is not desirable 
that the camp site should be constantly traversed by such breezes; while 
in a mountainous country a sudden heavy fall of rain will often quickly 
convert the dry bed of a ravine into a rushing torrent. Low plains, sur- 
rounded by high land, are proverbially unhealthful; and ground which is 
perfectly flat or slightly concave is not suitable for camp purposes on ac- 
count of ths difficulty of accomplishing drainage. In such localities the 
accumulated storm water can only be removed by evaporation or soakage, 
and a moderately rolling surface best fulfills the requirements of drainage. 
Narrow, circumscribed valleys and punch-bowl depressions are, during 
warm weather, excessively hot during the night as well as by day. Ex- 
22 



338 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

posed ridges should be avoided in cool weather since they are constantly 
swept by cold winds, but for that very reason they afford an excellent 
location for summer encampments. 

An abundance of water is of the first importance for troops, and en- 
campment in its vicinity is a necessity for a marching command, irrespective 
of the nature of the camp site and a possible exposure to malarial infection. 
Still, proximity to bodies of water does not necessarily render a locality 
unhealthful, and the bank of a lake or river, if not marshy, may make an 
excellent camp site. The vicinity of marshes, rice fields, irrigated lands 
or areas periodically overflowed and bared is always dangerous to health 
and favorable to malarial infection, particularly so in the last instance. 
While malarial diseases may be regarded as the certain accompaniment of 
a fluctuating water-level, they as certainly greatly decrease if the water 
level be made unvarying. Fresh-water marshes at any altitude should be 
avoided, if only for a single night; but the vicinity of salt marshes is, as 
a rule, healthful. Should the location of a camp near a marsh be rendered 
necessary, a hill, rising ground or screen of heavy timber should, if pos- 
sible, intervene. Localities at the mouths of rivers are usually unhealth- 
ful, and alluvial deposits or bottom lands should always be avoided ; pos- 
sessing a high ground water and a large proportion of organic detritus, they 
are not to be selected for military camps. A location to which surface or 
subsoil waters gravitate is always undesirable, and sufficient inclination 
readily to remove surface waters is of the greatest importance. In the 
encampment of large commands, wet places in the camp area should be 
avoided as much as possible. This may be accomplished by slightly alter- 
ing the line of the encampment or by throwing organizations back en echelon. 
As a general rule, the immediate vicinity of the camp should always be as 
dry as the soil of the site itself. 

Newly ploughed ground should never be employed for camping pur- 
poses, although a site which has been long under cultivation is usually 
healthful. All soil upon which the covering of turf has been destroyed is 
dusty in dry weather ; the degree depending upon the nature of the soil it- 
self. Dust is an excellent vehicle for the dissemination of micro-organisms, 
and undoubtedly plays an important part in the distribution of zymotic 
disease, particularly typhoid fever, in military camps. It is directly pro- 
ductive of bronchial and conjunctival irritation, contributes largely to the 
discomfort and annoyance of troops in camp, and directly impairs discipline 
and efficiency through the indifference to personal cleanliness which it en- 
genders. 

Soil. A porous soil with a deep bed-rock makes the best of camp 
sites. Deep gravel and sand are always healthful ; but the latter is soon 
fouled with organic refuse and hence becomes unsafe for camping purposes 
A sandy soil with a high ground water or closely lying substratum of clay 
should always be avoided, as should also such sands as contain a consider- 
able proportion of organic matter. The subsoil of the camping ground, as 
well as the surface, should always consist of sand, gravel, or similarly 
pervious material. 

The most unhealthful site for a camp is on a clay soil, or where clay 
subsoil approaches the surface. As expressed by Owen, ridges of clay are 
cold and every depression is a marsh. Chalk, if free from clay, is health- 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 339 

ful; but chalk marl is impermeable, cold, damp and insalubrious. Allu- 
vial soils often consist of thin strata of sand alternating with those of 
clay, both being mixed with a large proportion of organic matter. They 
contain much moisture, and thus render the overlying air constantly damp 
through evaj)oration. Limestone regions are usually salubrious, but 
marshes are of somewhat frequent occurrence through the retention of 
water in pockets and cavities. Magnesian limestone should be avoided. 
Sandstone is usually healthful; but if its formation is a thin layer placed 
over an imierineable stratum it is unhealthful. Granite, slate, trap and 
metamorphic rocks, if the slope of the surface is sufficiently great to enabJe 
storm water to run off rapidly, make salubrious cam]) sites. If, however, 
they contain cracks or depressions, storm water collects and stagnates 
and malarial conditions often result. Retentive strata are those of clay 
and hard rock ; porous layers are those of gravel, sand stone and chalk. An 
impermeable layer, if present, should l>eat such a depth as not to influence 
the moisture of the surface soil, through evaj>oration of the upheld ground 
water or by capillarity. If the camp must 1* pitched upon an imi*r- 
meable soil, the locality affording the best surface drainage should be 
chosen. 

Soil Moisture and Ground Water. From a hygienic standpoint 
the power of soils to absorb and retain moisture constitutes one of their 
most important projierties. Excessive moisture of the earth is a causerof 
fogs and atmospheric dampness; while the evaporation of such moisture 
renders the surface cold and chilling, and largely favors the sudden local 
changes of tem}*rature by which the health of troops in camp is often 
unfavorably influenced. Exhalations from damp ground are powerfully 
depressing to the vitality of the human organism, and favor the occurrence 
of rheumatism and neuralgia as well as the invasion of the system by in- 
fectious germs, certain of which best retain their vitality and perj>etuate 
their kind amid such environment. Diseases of the respiratory tract are 
not only more prevalent but more fatal on moist than on dry soils, possibly 
because the slight congestions and catarrhs which are produced by damp- 
ness may so modify the mucous membrane as to render lodgment and 
development by the specific micro-organisms less difficult of accomplish- 
ment. 

Soil moisture is largely derived from the rainfall, but the more severe 
the rain the less liable is the water to penetrate the ground. In amount, 
it necessarily depends UJKJU the supply and upon the power of the soil to 
absorb and retain it permeable and absorbent soils being, in this respect, 
quite different. Soil moisture is also influenced by surface configuration, 
the nature of the soil, the amount of organic matter present, evaporation, 
absorption of atmospheric moisture at night, fluctuation in the level of the 
ground water and by capillarity. Daubree estimated that water is raised 
by capillary Attraction to the height of one foot in the case of sands, t\\ 
feet in chalk and five feet in clay; a high ground water thus readily ren- 
''deringt.-' surface above it Intth damp and cold. The impermeability <>f 
certain soils to rain is relative rather than absolute 5 to 10 per cent, of 
a rainfall readily penetrating the so-called impervious strata of rock and 
clay. Stiff clay may take up and retain about 20 per cent, of water by 
weight or three times as much as is, in practice, retained by sand. Gran- 



340 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



ite and marbles absorb 0.4 to 4 per cent, by weight. In general, the amount 
of soil moisture appears to vary directly with the depth below the surface 
and the amount of contained organic matter. The absorbent power of 
various kinds of soil, as regards atmospheric moisture, has been determined 
by Schuebler, who found that 500 centigrams of earth, spread over sur- 
faces of equal area and exposed to the same atmospheric conditions, ab- 
sorbed moisture as follows: 



Kind of earth. 


In twelve 
hours. 
Centigrams. 


In twenty-four 
hours. 
Centigrams. 


In forty-eight 
hours. 
Centigrams. 


Silicious sand 


00 


00 


00 


Calcareous sand 


1.0 


1.5 


1.5 


Gypsum 


0.5 


0.5 


0.5 


Light clay 


10.5 


13.0 


140 


Heavy clay 


12.5 


15.0 


17.0 


Argillaceous earth 


15.0 


18.0 


20.0 


Pure clay ... 


18 5 


21 


240 


Calcareous matter, finely powdered 


13.0 


15.5 


17.5 


Humus 


40.0 


48.5 


55.0 











Evaporation of moisture occurs from soils as it does from the surface 
of water; its rapidity varying according to the nature of the ground, and 
a silicious sand losing its moisture nearly three times as quickly as a clay 
soil. All soils diminish in bulk on drying. Clay cracks a property of 
great service in drying cold, retentive localities. Altitude does not neces- 
sarily affect soil moisture if the site be commanded by elevations of still 
greater height, except as evaporation is thus favored. To determine the 
amount of soil moisture a boring is weighed, thoroughly dried at 110 C., 
and the weight again determined. 

Soil moisture and ground water are two entirely different conditions, 
the latter forming a solid sheet of water except so far as it is separated by 
particles of soil. Ground water lies at a variable distance from the surface 
and is in constant movement ; whence it happens that with a porous soil 
infectious material may be transported by it through some distance. The 
water-level is subject to constant fluctuation ; this being of no importance 
if slight, but rendering the camp site particularly uuhealthful if frequent 
and extensive. The level of the ground water should never approach 
nearer than eight feet to the surface of a proposed camp site, and should 
preferably be several times that distance. Where doubt exists as to the 
nearness of the ground water to the surface, the matter can usually be 
settled, for all practical purposes, by a few minutes' use of the pick and 
shovel. 

While undoubtedly a good natural site can be improved by careful 
surface and subsoil drainage, in practice a camp should never be located in 
a situation where the latter procedure is actually required. Wherever 
deep drainage is instituted, tile drains, with a fall of one per cent., should 
be placed in rows thirty feet apart and at a depth of six or eight feet. 

Adequate surface drainage is a most important factor in the maintenance 
of proper police in camp. A moist surface soil is quickly churned into mud 
by the constant passing of men and vehicles, and the company streets must 
be dry and firm to prevent the constant uncleanliness of the men and their 
habitations. 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 



341 



So far as soil moisture or ground water is concerned, the best site for 
the camp is afforded by a gravelly elevation; all low levels or soils whirl; 
are retentive of moisture being avoided. 

Soil Temperature. Reflection of light defends upon the color of the 
soil; and the same factor, taken in connection with compactness of the 

particles, largely determines the absorption of heat by the earth a while 

surface reflecting the heat rays and maintaining the air alx>ve it at a high 
temjierature. Surface soil directly resjionds to fluctuations in the atmos- 
pheric heat, while deep layers react but slowly; soil terai>erature, in gen- 
eral, resulting from a combination of the daily and seasonal variations. At 
considerable depths, through the slowness of progression of the heat wave, 
the seasonal temperatures are reversed the temjierature in mid-winter 
Iwing higher than in mid-summer. All soils have a lower sjecific heat 
than water, and hence more readily acquire heat. Wet soils, irrespective 
of their chemical nature, always absorb and radiate heat slowly, the rate de- 
jiending u}Km the amount of water present. Hence dry sand alworbs heat 
much more readily than clay, and affords a warmer situation for cold 
weather encampments or winter quarters. In general, the temjierature of 
dry soils is nearly 10 F. higher than in damp soils at the same depth. 
Organic matter in any^soil is said to have a direct influence uj>on the ab- 
sorption of lieat, as it does with regard to soil moisture. The aksorbing 
and radiating powers of soils are not necessarily equal, and, as a general 
thing, soils ]art with their warmth more rapidly than they acquire it. A 
grassy surface diminishes absorption and promotes radiation of heat; hence 
with a barren, sandy soil, the air alwve, through slow radiation, is oppres- 
sive at night as well as hot by day, and the selection of such a site for 
camping purposes, during warm weather, is jal]ably undesirable. 

Different kinds of soils vary greatly in their cajiacity for retaining 
heat. According to Schuebler, the relative jmwers of certain soils as re- 
gards the retention of heat, that of sand being considered as 100, is as 
follows: 



Calcareous sand 100.0 

Silicious tuiiul 95.0 

Gypsum 78.2 

Light day 76.9 

Heavy clay 71.1 



Argillaceous earth 68.4 

Pure clay 66.7 

Calcareous dust 61.8 

Humus .. . 49.0 



From the above table it is readily seen that a sandy l)ed is usually to Iw 
preferred for the bivouac ; not only from its greater dry ness and adaptability 
to the outlines of the form but.also because of its greater warmth at night. 

((round-heat favors the existence and multiplication of micro-organ- 
isms, and hence it is not strange that a direct relation between soil tem- 
j)erature, at a depth of three to six feet, and the prevalence of cholera has 
been observed. Dysentery and malaria are both dejiendent on an ele- 
vated soil temperature, and Kalian! has noted that epidemics of diarrho-u 
occurred in England only when a temperature of 12 C., four feet from tlu- 
surface of the earth, was maintained. 

A ready but somewhat mugh method of determining ground tempera- 
ture consists in inserting a srli'-ivjistering thermuim-tcr. juu-kwl in sand and 
enclosed in n tin tule, into a l>oring of tin* ivquirrd drpth. 

Bacteriology of the Camp Site. The bacterial life of soils natur- 



342 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



ally varies greatly according to season, moisture, and other environmental 
conditions. According to Poore, the number of micro-organisms in one 
cubic centimeter of pure sand was 8,326, while it was 475,282 in a virgin 
peat, and 115,014,492 in the same amount of soil from the trench of a 
sewage farm ; but whatever be the nature of the soil, the number of micro- 
organisms was found to diminish as the depth increased. 

Kramer, in examining a clay soil highly charged with organic matter, 
obtained the following results : 



Number of 

Depth In meters. micro-organisms per 

gram of earth. 

0.20 650,000 

0.50 500,000 

0.70 276,000 

1.00 36,000 



Number of 

Depth In meters. micro-organisms per 

gram of earth. 

1.20 5,600 

1.40 700 

1.65 .. .a few. 



In the absence of suitable pabulum the bacterial life of soil, in general, 
is not large, and varies directly with the amount of organic matter present. 
Kobertson and Gibson found that soil bared of grass and inoculated with 
typhoid bacilli soon became sterile unless frequently sprinkled with a nu- 
trient solution, in which case the bacilli persisted at the end of six months. 
The organisms were able to penetrate downward into the soil to a depth of 
three inches, or grow upward to an extent of fifteen inches vegetation re- 
tarding or preventing its development. Sandy or peaty soil was found by 
them to be strongly hostile to the growth of the typhoid bacillus, while 
clay and gravel favored its development. According to the medical report 
of the local government board of London, for 1898, temperature has little 
influence on the vitality of the typhoid bacillus, provided the ground re- 
mains moist. In an artificially polluted soil the bacillus maintained its 
existence for 456 days; and at the end of this period, after having been 
dried and reduced to dust, it still remained in viable condition. Karliuski 
has found that the typhoid bacillus may exist in putrid foeces for as long 
as three months. As regards cholera, it was found by Dempster that 
comma bacilli died out by the third day in dry sand, although in moist 
earth they were alive on the one hundred and seventy-fourth day. Peaty 
soil appears to destroy rapidly all pathogenic bacteria, irrespective of moist- 
ure, and, to a certain degree, regardless of organic contamination. 

From a bacteriological standpoint it is evident that the selection of 
pure, dry, sandy soil for the camp site is eminently desirable. Such soil 
exerts an unfavorable influence upon the perpetuation of pathogenic micro- 
organisms, and they are rapidly overcome in the struggle for existence by 
the saprophytic forms, which find therein a more congenial environment. 
The pollution of the camp area with organic material is a powerful and 
necessary factor in the propagation of typhoid bacilli and other pathogenic 
bacteria, and undoubtedly is the chief factor in rendering disease epidemic 
in such camps as are carelessly policed or have been long maintained in the 
same situation. The vigorous upward growth of the typhoid bacillus ren- 
ders it apparent that a superficial coating of earth, even several inches in 
depth, will not retain this micro-organism in an innocuous condition below 
the surface of the ground, and hence more careful attention to latrines be- 
comes necessary. It would seem readily possible that typhoid bacilli, when 
covered with earth in a trench latrine, after reaching the surface through 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. :;;:; 

their development upward and undergoing partial desiccation, may I* car- 
ried up by air currents and inhaled or distributed upon food or water des- 
tined for consumption by the soldier. 

Vegetation. The presence of vegetation exerts a marked influence 
upon the heallhfulness of the camp site, through the diminution of soil 
moisture, the tempering of thennometric changes, and the rapidity with 
which the nitrogenous products of decomposing organic matter are, by it, 
appropriated and utilized. In its luxuriance, vegetation depends upon the 
activity of putrefactive processes occurring in the soil, due to conditions 
implying the co-existence of heat, moisture and organic material in vary- 
ing proportions. Excessive and rank vegetable growth indicates a high 
degree of soil moisture. While surface evaporation from the soil is re- 
tarded by its presence, the evaporation from the vegetation itself may be 
much greater in amount. 

Trees have a pronounced effect in modifying extremes of temperature. 
In hot climates they prevent the heating of the ground by the interception 
of the solar rays, while in cold countries they check the force of air cur- 
rents and afford excellent protection from inclement winds. Trees are 
powerful agents in the reduction of soil moisture, while by theii rooU 
they prevent washing of the soil and impede the jwissage of ground water. 
They afford considerable shelter for the bivouac a fact put to practical 
use by the armies of the ancients and later by the troojw of Napoleon. 
Experience ap]>ears to demonstrate that a Iwlt of tall timber has an effect 
in reducing the lability to malarial infection, and hence such a screen 
should preferably intervene between the camp and a marsh if the occuj)ancy 
of such an undesirable neigh borhood become necessary. An abundance of 
trees in the vicinity of the camp is always desirable on account of the 
supply of fuel so afforded, while a few scattered through the camp itself 
afford grateful shade in warm weather. In practice, trees should rarely 
be removed for sanitary reasons, since no camp should voluntarily be lo- 
cated in such a heavy growth of timber as to render such action advisable. 
The loss of sunlight, stagnation of air, greater soil moisture and exhalations 
from the dead and decomposing leaves which cover the ground in dense 
woodland combine to render such a site unsuited for the purposes of a 
military encampment. Such localities remain damp until cleared and more 
thoroughly exposed to sun and air, and often appear to be especially ma- 
larious besides which they are not devoid of the danger of accident during 
high winds. 

Dense undergrowth is always unhealthful ; since it favors the mainten- 
ance of soil dampness through interference with surface evaporation by 
air currents, as well as by directly protecting the ground against the drying 
influence of the solar rays. Should, however, the camp be of an ephemeral 
nature and intended only for a brief occupancy ,-it appears to be better, in 
a malarious country, that brush or shrubbery be not disturbed. In the case 
of a standing camp, the site and its vicinity should early be cleared of all 
undergrowth. The operation is preferably to be performed in the full heat 
of the da and all rank vegetation, after being cut down, should In- l.urm-d 
or removed liefore decay is established. The surface of the soil itself 
should not be disturbed. " Sparse undergrowth, particularly if on a sandy < r 
gravelly soil, is not necessarily to be destroyed. 



344 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

A camp-site well covered with grass and possessing a strong turf is 
always desirable ; but in permanent camps the carpet of herbage is soon 
destroyed by constant traffic. The maintenance in grass of exposed sur- 
faces of the camp area largely obviates the discomforts of mud, dust, and re- 
flected heat and light, and prevents washing of the soil by rams. The 
presence of moss, however, indicates dampness, and, for the same reason, 
ground covered with rank and wiry grass should be avoided. Briers and 
weeds should be cut down and removed, while it should scarcely be neces- 
sary to call attention to the desirability of destroying all " poison ivy " or 
" poison oak " in the vicinity of the encampment. 

The sunflower and other plants of rapid growth have an excellent effect 
in reducing soil moisture through their great powers of absorption and 
evaporation. In Australia and Algeria the eucalyptus globulus is said to 
evaporate annually moisture equal to eleven times the rainfall on its 
ground area. Where the growth of vegetation of this character is free, a 
salubrious site may usually be expected. 



II. 

CAMPS. 

Camps may be temporary and unsheltered bivouacs, may be formed of 
tents for longer occupancy, or may assume a semi-permanent character, in 
which case the use of huts or frame barracks becomes preferable. 

In the establishment of a camp the following points, as incorporated in 
the regulations for encampments in the British army, are always to be 
considered : 

1. The length of time that troops are to occupy the ground. 

2. That order, cleanliness, ventilation and salubrity are to be ensured. 

3. That means for passing through the camp are essential. 

4. That a straggling camp increases the labor of fatigue duties, and 
impedes the delivery of supplies and the circulation of orders. 

5. That the more compact the camp the easier it is to defend. 

Plan of the Camp. According to the tactics officially prescribed for 
use in the United States army, in the infantry camp, if in the presence of 
the enemy, troops bivouac in position. If safety permit, the tents may be 
pitched immediately in the rear of the line of stacks ; the tents of the com- 
pany officers being in the rear of their companies, and the tents of the field 
and staff' in the rear of the center of the line of company officers. When 
not in the presence of the enemy, each battalion usually camps in column 
of companies at convenient distances. The tents of each company are hi 
two lines, facing each other, or in one line, facing in the same direction. 
The tents of the company officers are arranged in line parallel to the flank 
of the column and at a convenient distance, facing the company street. 
The tents of the battalion commanders are opposite the center of their 
respective battalions in the rear of the line of company officers. The colo- 
nel is opposite the center of the column in the rear of the line of majors. 
The kitchens of the men are in line on the flank opposite the company 
officers, and may be either at the head or the rear of the column. The 
sinks for the men are outside the line of kitchens. The kitchens for the 



GAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 



officers are in the rear of the tents ; the sinks for the officers being in rear 
of the line of tents of the Held and staff. The width of the company 
streets and the streets in front of the company officers, majors and their 



a a a o 



a a a a 



O OCQW*. (tTCXM 



og oa 



ao oa DO oa 

v 

DODO QncLO MO. tTA 

O Q KITOfN 



oa DO aa 00 COM* otrietir 

f r ITC~C 



O OoricM 



Fia. 128. Plan of Camp for Rigimeot of Infantry. 

staff's, and colonel and staff varies with the nature of the ground and the 
strength of the command. No instructions are laid down as to the area 
to be occupied by an infantry camp or the intervals to be maintained be- 
tween the military units composing it. 

In the establishment of the cavalry camp, the command is drawn up in 
line with intervals of '8 yards between troops ; the men unsaddle and place 
their equipments 10 yards in front of the horses. The tents of the men 
are pitched in line, about 15 yards in the rear of the picket line; the inter- 
vals between troops being left free. The kitchen of each troop is near 
the left, in front of the line of tents, and the sinks are in front of the line 
of kitchens. The tents of the officers of each troop are about 30 yards 





* 


* 
* 
* 


* 


* 


* ! 

* : 

v 





^ 1 

- 


n'n 

* 1 TT' KITCHCH 


PICKET LINE 

CDlDlDODHIDtDEfDlDIim d 




r _ 

5 E 



MM tIM 

..x=a._ i 

Pio. 139. Plan of Camp fur Light Battery of Artillery. 



in the n>ar of the line of tents. The tent of the commanding officer i- in 
the rear of the Jine of troop officers; together with the u-nis "f tin- tU-ld 
and staff. The kitchens of the field and staff are in the rear of their tents, 
while the non-commissioned staff are in the rear of the kiu hens. The 



346 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

officers' sinks are in the rear of the camp. The squadron may also encamp 
in column of troops, the tents of the men being in line, in the rear of their 
horses, about half way between them and the horses of the troop next in 
rear. The tents of the officers are in line, parallel to and 30 yards from 
the flank of the column toward which the troops are dressed. The tents 
of the field, staff, and non-commissioned staff are arranged as before pre- 
scribed. The kitchens of the men are in line on the flank opposite the 
officers ; the sinks being outside of the line of kitchens. 

There are several methods by which a battery of light artillery may be 
encamped, and these may be interchanged or modified to suit circumstances 
or the nature of the ground. The plan shown in Fig. 129, however, is the 
one usually adopted. Where a battalion of light artillery is encamped, the 
guidons are established with a distance between them of 94 yards. The 
tent of the battalion commander is at a point 60 yards from the line of 
guidons, on a line passing 17 yards in rear of the guidon; each captain 
being 75 yards to the rear and 30 yards to the flank of his battery. The 
picket line is 15 yards in rear of the line of carriages and 30 yards in 
front of the men's tents. The cook tent and guard tent are on the line 
with the tents of the command. The sinks are 105 yards from the ex- 
terior flank, on the prolongation of the picket line. Officers' sinks are 60 
yards in rear of the staff tents, which are located at intervals of 5 yards 
facing the interior flank. 

It is evident that the location of the latrines in the infantry and cav- 
alry camps has often brought them in highly dangerous proximity to the 
kitchens ; and hence a general order, recently issued, providing for the es- 
tablishment of the sinks at such distance from the kitchens as may seem 
advisable to commanding officers, cannot fail to be of sanitary advantage. 
It would be better, however, if a minimum distance between the camp and 
the sinks were officially laid down in orders. 

For the establishment and arrangement of temporary or semi-fixed hos- 
pitals under canvas no instructions are provided, the matter being left to 
the discretion of the officer in command. Of the larger temporary hos- 
pitals, the general field hospital established at Montauk Point in 1898 may 
be taken as a type. This hospital had accommodations for 1,750 patients. 
The canvas was pitched on wooden frames eight hospital tents being 
joined together to form a ward. This hospital was convenient of admin- 
istration, but the wards were too crowded together and were badly oriented. 
With these enceptions the plan was excellent. 

From a hygienic standpoint tents should never be arranged in double 
rows ; and in all instances the plan of the camp should be suited to the 
terrain, and the different arms of the service encamped on ground best 
adapted to their special needs. In hot weather the front of an encampment 
should be toward the north and east, and in cold weather toward the south 
and east. It is also advisable that camps should face away from prevailing 
winds. 

Area of the Camp. All military encampments are densely populated, 
and hence every effort of the sanitary officer should be toward their expan- 
sion as large an area as can be properly policed being .desirable. The 
mere aggregation of human beings exercises a powerfully depressant influ- 
ence on vital resistance, and it has long been demonstrated that the death 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 



347 



rate in diflerent sections of large cities bears a direct relation to the den- 

ity of their population. As this is true in civil life, so it is more sofa 

the military establishment ; where sanitary requirements are often disre- 

garded, and where every facility is present for the propagation of infectious 



oa aoaoaaa 

llao can aaoa 




FIG. i:i. <; iiii.l Plan of General Field Hnapltal mt Mnntauk Point. 1. Wank; 2. mm halto ; Lstore- 
rooms: 4. convalescent wards; &. nillifiV quarter* ; rt. chief surv>n : ?. ndlcera' tnvm: H, kllebra*. 9. 



H. kltdMIH. 

oommtasary and let* hoiue : Ki, prtaeU' U*nU: 11. bath t-nt ; 12. U-nfai for Stol'-m of riirit> ; 1:1. camp of 
tniunl : 14. U>nta of Htwpltal (>>rpn men : l.V port and >xpnM office; I'l, clm|'l and rt-mdinir teat. 17, 
quarters for stranger* ; 1\ It*. n-ll*f *x-letiea : 3>, ston- t.-ni. for relief *>rleUe* ; SI. dUlnffctlnff U-nt . 
B, toolaUon want : <, nU>re tent for dWnfertanU ; S4. dead bouse: 2V. coatafffcXH ittoiiMM ; M> extra 
nurses' quarters: u"7. latrines: 2. operating teat: , (UspeaMry and store tent ; 30. Reoeral oflk: 31. 
water tank : !. iruard t.-nta. 



348 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



MINIMUM SPACE 60 X 136 YDS. 
12 7 7 



aoow 

'GGGG GGGG; 

IGGGG GGGG; 

GOGG; 

GGOG! 
GO GO: 



: 3333 3333 



MEN8 
KITCHEN 



I [REFUSE 



GGGG: 

GGGG; 

AOJ. " 

G 



ADJ. C.O. O.R. r.O. I 



disease, through the intimate relationship and frequent contact necessarily 
implied by military life. 

In foreign armies the camp area is a matter of official regulation, and 
hence too great crowding is impossible. In the British service the camp 

spaces are divided into the maximum 
and minimum, between which points 
commanding officers are entitled to 
use their own discretion. While the 
regulations of 1863 established the 
ground space for encampments in 
our service, the matter has since 
been ignored, and neither tactics nor 
regulations now contain any definite 
instruction for the guidance of offi- 
cers, other than those of light batter- 
ies, in this most important subject. 
Hence tents may be widely scattered 
or closely crowded; but the practi- 
cal result of such latitude of choice is 
that overcrowding is invariably the 
case wherever a large number of men 
are encamped together. 

The tactics of 1863 prescribed that 
the length of a camp should depend 
on the line of battle front which the 
command presented an arrangement 
obviously rational. With the old 
regimental strength of 600, officers 
and men, a frontage of 22 inches per 
man, with double rank, gave a color 
line of 150 yards, or a company fron- 
tage of 15 yards. Each regiment also had a vacant margin of 12 yards on 
each flank, thus giving 174 yards to each regiment. The regulations pre- 
scribed that the tents of the men should be pitched perpendicular to the 
color line, and ten paces from it. Each company was disposed in two op- 
posing files with a street between ; this street, together with the ground 
on which the tents were pitched, constituting the company area. Each 
row, for the regiment of 600 men, contained about 13 shelter-tents, so 
pitched as to give the company street a length of 50 paces (42 yards) 
and a width of 9 yards. Whenever the frontage of the camp was nar- 
rowed, it was done at the expense of the company streets ; a width of 5 
paces being the minimum of condensation allowed by regulations. If 
further narrowing of front was required, it was necessary to pitch camp in 
corumns of division ; the tents of each company being arranged in a single 
row on one side of the company street. The kitchens were parallel to the 
color line and 20 yards from the rear rank of the tents, and the company 
officers were 20 yards from the kitchens. At a distance of 20 yards be- 
hind a line drawn through the kitchens of the company officers, were lo- 
cated the tents of the field and staff. The officers' sinks were 100 paces 
in the rear of the non-commissioned staff; the sinks of the men were 150 




FIG. 131. Arrangement and Minimum Camping 
Space of British Infantry Battalion. 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 



MO 



paces in front of the color line, and the advance guard was located 50 
paces in front of the sinks. This arrangement gave a superficies of 62,292 
square yards for the regimental encampment, or 104 square yards for each 
of the 600 men. When the frontage of the camp was narrowed to the 
minimum authorized by regulations, the per capita ground space was re- 
duced to 74 square yards. 

The accomi>aiiying diagram by Smart (Fig. 133) illustrates the encamp- 
ment of two infantry divisions and four batteries of artillery, in all 18,620 
men, as disposed under the regulations 
of 1863. The regiments have their 
minimum front, making a battle line 
of 2,160 yards and a depth of 1,566 
yards. This arrangement gives a 
superficies per capita of 182 square 
yards, or a density of 17,020 men 
per square mile. 

With the increase of the army in 
1898 the maximum strength of an 
infantry regiment, officers and men, 
amounts to 1,359 souls or more 
than double the old strength. If 
encamped in accordance with the 
regulations of 1863, the new regi- 
ment of twelve companies would 
have a frontage of 363 yards, and 
each row of tents would have a depth 
of 87 yards. This would give a to- 
tal superficies of 158,208 square 
yards, or 116 square yards of surface 
to each man. 

From the foregoing figures it is 
evident that the dangers of over- 
crowding in a properly spaced camp 
exist rather within the tent than 
without it, and that the sufficiency 
of the cam]) area depends largely 
upon the manner of its occujwtion. 
In the present lack of regulations <m 
the subject it is of course possible for a commanding officer so to contract 
his camp as seriously to interfere with sanitary requirements. In some of 
the volunteer camps during the war with Spain the tents were crowded so 
closely together as to be tied to each other at the sides, while the tents of 
different companies almost touched each other at their backs. 

Mounted troops, from the nature of their branch of the service, require 
proportionately much more ground for the establishment of their camp than 
do foot troops, and hence their camp area is by no means as drnsrly popu- 
lated. Still, the discomfort and unsanitary conditions attached to the 
presence of a large number of horses, particularly in hot weather, will usu- 
ally more than neutralize any sanitary advantages which might have accrued 
from the greater ground space. 







A 




! : 








1 




""""" ~~a^ ~~ 






1 




; 




1 




i 




- 




' 


:.- 


- 




\ 




1 




















^ COlM ^l%t iur C 






: 


P~ , .. 






: 

. 


ji 11 ii II li ii ii ii II i 

:: :: :: i: :: :: :: |{ i 
:: || :: :: :: :: U :: 22 j 


\ 

> 


SM 




i i 


. 













' 




- 
























i 


M 


I 


->; i ;/ 


.. 











Km. 



!!. HrtrtmrtiUI Kncuinpin.-iil, I'nlUM 
Army, i II-I.T ItnnJlaUmis of i.*;i. .1. 
Advance iniunl : /'. men's sinks; I), company 
kitchens; K, officers' sinks. (Afur Smart.) 



350 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



fin 



i 



I ] 



Bivouacs. The employment of the bivouac permits the possession of 
certain great military advantages, viz., increased mobility of troops, prox- 
imity to the line of march, compactness of camp, and hence readiness of 
assembly ; but long continuance in the field without shelter during in- 
clement weather greatly impairs the efficiency of the command. Napoleon 
habitually required his troops to bivouac during campaign a practice to 
which the medical writers of the time largely ascribed the great sick-rate 

and mortality prevail- 
ing among the French 
troops. In warm clear 
weather and on a dry 
soil, however, the bi- 
vouac may be tempo- 
rarily employed without 
the production of ill 
effects. 

Bivouacs are en- 
campments without the 
protection of tents or 
huts, and the principles 
for the selection of the 
camp site, already dis- 
cussed, are of the great- 
est importance in their 
establishment. It is 
generally well, in the 
absence of some more 
potent reason to the 
contrary, to bivouac 
among trees since 
standing timber affords 
protection from the 
winds, material for shel- 
ters and fires and a 
screen from the obser- 
vation of the enemy. 
The bivouac should al- 
ways be established in 

order and in accordance with a regular plan. Straggling should be prohib- 
ited, and the soldiers usually required to occupy their own company 
and squad areas ; but the occupation of neighboring buildings by a part 
of the command, under proper authority, may at times be advantageously 
permitted. In the bivouac of the Spanish army, which is a fair type of 
the arrangement employed in various European services, each battalion 
of 1,000 men occupies a space having a frontage of 110 meters and a 
depth of 170 meters. The companies are encamped in column of sections, 
and each section is permitted to kindle six fires, to each of which ten men 
are allotted. Such a fire, with its circle of soldiers, occupies a space five 
meters in diameter; four meters of free space being preserved between 
groups. The company officers bivouac on a line bisecting the camp trans- 



FIG. 133. Encampment of an Army Corps Under Regulations of 
1863. A, Army headquarters; -B, 'division headquarters; C, bri- 
gade headquarters, a, Advanced guard ; 7>, men's sinks ; c, color 
line ; d, area of men's quarters ; e, company kitchens ; /, company 
officers; g, field and staff ; h, officers' sinks. (After Smart.) 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 

versely. The latrines are located according to the discretion of the com- 
manding officer, but are required to be placed at a distance of not leas 
than 60 meters from the troops. This arrangement gives a ground space 
of 18.7 square meters to each man. 

A slight amount of shelter will protect against wind, and for this pur- 




Flo. i:M.- Brush Wind-break for Blvoumr. 

pose walls, hedges and undulations of the ground may be excellently util- 
ized. When trees are available, a convenient shelter for the bivouac may 
l>e constructed by resting a pole on two forked uprights raised several feet 
above the ground, against which leafy branches, thick end up, are piled at 
an angle of 45 on the windward side. In the al>sence of this material, 
reeds or long grass may be employed or dirt or stones may lw hea]d up 
to the necessary height. Usually the ground uj>on which the soldier in- 
tends to sleep should not be excavated or disturbed. In European armies, 
when no shelter tent is carried, earth and brushwood are together utilized 
in the construction of a circular bivouac. The turf is carefully cut out 
around the area intended to l enclosed, and placed so as to revet the in- 







Fio. 135. Arrmnirf m>nt of Frem-b Blrouar. 

tenor slope ; earth being thrown against it until a bank two or three feet 
high is made. An entrance is left to leeward, and the eart by ridge is thickly 
planted with branches or shrubs. Such a bivouac ordinarily has an in- 
terior diameter of 18 or 20 feet and can comfortably accommodate fifteen 
men. A small fire is usually kindled in the centre of the enclosed area; 
the men disposing themselves, like the spokes of a wheel, with their feet 
to the fire. In the German army a narrow trench is usually dug around 



352 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Wind Break, 




FIG. 136. Plan of German Bivouac. 



the central fire to limit the danger of accidents. In the bivouac of light 
artillery troops, the men sleep under the guns and caissons, where ample 

protection is afforded by 
the paulins. Each pau- 
lin is 11 feet square and 
each gun and caisson is 
provided with two such 
pieces of canvas. 

Where the shelter- 
tent forms a part of the 
equipment of the soldier 
and is habitually carried, 
as in the United States 
service, the necessity for 
the bivouac will scarcely 
occur unless in the vi- 
cinity of the enemy ; and 
hence in its employment 
military and not sanitary 

considerations will usually be of the most importance. With our troops 
the bivouac without shelter-tents will rarely be required ; nor should it be, 
except on the eve of battle. 

Cantonments. Troops in the field may be quartered in the houses 
available in the district occupied ; provided the resources of the country 
and strategical and tactical considerations admit of such disposition. They 
are then said to be in cantonments. Such method of sheltering troops 
has rarely been employed in this country, and here the term, by a perver- 
sion of meaning, has come to imply the occupancy of such rude yet roomy 
and substantial structures as have been built by soldier labor for supposedly 
temporary occupation. 

The manner in which cantonments are employed depends upon the 
degree of concentration in which it is necessary to maintain a command ; 
for few countries are so densely populated as to allow of large bodies of 
troops being quartered in houses, with some regard for the comfort of both 
the men and inhabitants, without distributing the former over a wide area. 
Usually troops in cantonments must make the best of the area assigned to 
them ; as many men as possible finding shelter in houses and outbuildings, 
while 'the remainder bivouac in gardens and fields care being taken that 
the roads are left vacant to ensure ready communication. In estimating 
accommodation for ordinary cantonments, a certain number of rooms, 
preferably those of the upper floors, must be reserved for the use of the 
inhabitants. The Germans, in placing troops in cantonments, group the 
houses of the district to be occupied into several classes. The capacity of 
a representative of each class of dwelling is then determined, and the num- 
ber of houses of each class estimated; whence the total accommodations 
can readily be calculated. In general, in rooms more than 15 feet wide, 
but having a width of less than 25 feet, two men can be assigned for each 
yard of length; while for rooms of 25 feet or more in width three men 
may be accommodated in each linear yard. This of course implies crowd- 
ing, and the arrangement must be only temporary. The French rule pro- 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 363 

vides for a space 2 meters square (42 square feet) for each soldier, whi.-h 
is nearly as large as the area allowed in barracks. 

When troops are placed in cantonments the water supply is frequently 
restricted and the sanitary arrangements of the inhabitants will rarely 
suffice. Careful supervision of the water should therefore be instituted, 
and latrines should be at once provided, similar to those used in the 
field. 

The cantonment system is evidently impracticable in the presence of 
epidemics; while in prolonged campaign, considering the large numbers 
of troops involved in modern warfare, it will be impossible even under the 
best of circumstances to provide sufficient shelter by such means. While 
the billeting and cantonment of troops is habitually practiced among Eu- 
ropean nations in time of peace, no such procedure would ever be tolerated 
in the United States. For troops at home, therefore, the subject possesses 
only theoretical interest, although it may have a practical importance in 
the occupation of foreign territory. 

Shelter-Tents. The piece of canvas known as the shelter-tent half 
forms part of the personal equipment of the soldier, and is not included in 
the allowance of tentage issued to troops when not occupying barracks. 
It is provided for usage of a purely temporary character, and is intended 
to afford protection from* the elements whenever the employment of more 
burdensome shelter is impracticable. The shelter-tent camp, therefore, 
occupies a position intermediate between the simple bivouac and the more 
substantial tent encampment. 

A tent similar to the shelter-tent was in use in the British army in 
1750, but was re-invented by the French troops in Algeria about a cen- 
tury later; the bedsacks which were issued in the latter service at that 
time being split open, fastened together in couples and utilized as shelters. 
Introduced into our army early in the Civil War, the shelter-tent at once 
became popular among troops, and this position it has maintained down to 
the present time. The shelter-tent is light a most essential quality is 
readily pitched, well ventilated and never overcrowded. By its employ- 
ment the hardships of the bivouac are avoided, recourse to the cantonment 
system becomes unnecessary, and the command is rendered largely inde- 




Fio. 137. New Style Shelter-Tent. Two double ** mn pitched together. 

pendent of the movements of the wagon train. It serves an excellent pur- 
pose, in the protection of troops, not only when pitched upon the ground 
but also when used as a roofing for habitations with solid walls. It is not, 
however, a sufficient protection for a winter campaign. As usually carried 
by the soldier, it is rolled around the blanket in the form of a long cylinder 
23 



364 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

and slung from one- shoulder to the opposite hip; the free ends being tied 
together with the guy rope. 

The old style shelter-tent was scarcely long enough properly to protect 
the soldier. Although slightly wider than the model recently adopted, it 
possessed no means for the closure of the ends in stormy or windy 
weather. Brush, branches or rubber blankets were often used for this 
purpose ; although sometimes a third man was accommodated in the tent 
and his piece of canvas used to stop up the exposed end. While the but- 
tons on both sides of the old shelter-tent permitted the pitching of an in- 
definite number in common, as a matter of fact such an arrangement was 




FIG. 138. Old Style Shelter-Tent. 

rarely resorted to ; the men usually preferring to tent in pairs except dur- 
ing very stormy weather. 

The recently adopted shelter-tent is made of 8-ounce duck and is 65 
inches long on the ridge and 61 inches wide. The closed end measures 
3 feet 1 1 inches from ridge to base, and 3 feet 7 inches along the base. 
There are nine buttons and button-holes along the top ; the buttons, of white 
metal, being 7-J- inches apart and 3 inches from the edge. The sides of the 
tent have seven buttons and button-holes ; the button-holes being worked 
half an inch from the edge, while the buttons are 3 inches from the edge. 
Along the closed end there are the same number of buttons and button-holes, 
spaced about 6 inches apart. Each half tent is furnished with a one-quar- 
ter inch Manila guy -line, 6 feet 7 inches long, and 4 foot-stops, by which 
the canvas may be pegged to the ground. A set of shelter-tent poles con- 
sists of two uprights, about one inch in diameter, which, when joined, 
make an upright 46 inches long, with a spindle one inch long at one end. 
The poles are joined by means of a tin socket four inches long. The weight 
of the shelter-tent half is 2 Ibs. 8f oz., while the set of pins weigh 3 oz. 
and the pole 9 oz. This brings the total weight of the individual equip- 
ment up to 3 Ibs. 4f oz. ; or considerably less than the weight of the 
shelter-tent used in foreign services. During campaign in a wooded coun- 
try, however, this weight is still further reduced ; since troops are prone to 
discard the poles and pegs as being an additional and superfluous burden, 
and to rely upon the undergrowth in the vicinity of the camp-sites to fur- 
nish substitutes. 

In the new shelter-tent no more than four individual portions can be 
pitched together. The adjustment of the end-pieces makes t"he length 
amply sufficient, while the comfort of the occupants is considerably in- 
creased through the perfect protection afforded from driving winds and 
rains and the increase in the available ground space. The two halves of 
the tent, when joined and pitched with uprights of 46 inches height, give 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 



886 



a spread at the base of about 7 feet, and provide a sheltered area of about 
20 square feet for each of the two occujiants. The cubic air space ia of n<> 
importance when only two men tent together, since one end of the shelter 
is necessarily left open. It becomes, however, a serious matter if four of 
the new shelter halves are pitched together ; since both ends may then be 
closed and the cubic air space rendered quite insufficient for the four in- 
mates. The tenting of men in squads of four should therefore be discour- 
aged ; and, whenever j*rmitted, it should be the care of officers to see that 
both ends of the tent are at no time tightly closed. 

No shelter-tent is issued in the British service except to those troops 
serving in South Africa; when eacli man carries a canvas sheet 5} by 5^ 
feet, together with a triangular piece 2j feet high and having a base 5^ feet 
wide for the closure of the ends. The upright has a height of 48 inches. 
The Knglish shelter-tent equipment weighs 6 pounds 14 ounces per man 
a serious defect which has been a strong factor in preventing its wider 
use. Wolseley calls this tent a bad imitation of the French model, and 
says that it fulfils few of the purposes for which it was originally de- 
signed. 

The shelter-tent was used in the French army in the war in Italy, the 
war in Mexico and the war of 1870-71. On account of its weight it was 
discarded after the latter 'war, with the expectation that troops in campaign 
could usually find shelter in cantonments ; or, failing in that, could bivouac 
without injury. It is now issued only to troops serving in Algeria and to 
the Alpine Legion. The tent is made of hempen canvas and is almost 
identical witli our old-style shelter-tent, the ends being unprotected. The 
weight of this tent is about 4 pounds per man. Each piece is 5$ by 5J 
feet, while the uprights are 40 inches in height. A shelter-tent similar 
to the French model, but slightly less in size, is now in use in the army 
of Holland. 

While the shelter-tent has, in the past, been rarely employed in the 
German service, a model is now used consisting of a piece of water-proofed 



+ 1,80 







F1<>. 13B.-<;Tnn Shelter-Tent. 



brown material 1.5 meters (5 feet) square ; furnished with eyelets, button- 
holes and aluminum buttons and having a weight of 3 pounds per man. 
During the march this tent can be used to protect the soldier against rain, 
being fastened around the neck and waist. Two men can pitch their squares 
together ; but usually a number unite their canvas into one shelter. In 
the latter instance, four individual pieces are generally joined to make a 
single long sheet. This is supported at the middle by a ridge having a 
height of 1.8 meters, while the ends are pegged to the ground at a dis- 
tance of 5 meters from each other. Half-way between the central ridge 
and the pegs the canvas is supported by small uprights carried for the 



356 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

purpose. Sections similar to the above may be added indefinitely each 
section readily accommodating four men. The canvas may also be pitched 
over a frame, so as to form a shelter with a roof and back but open at the 
front and sides. In fine weather or summer the shelter- tent is not pitched, 
the men sleeping upon it. A shelter-tent somewhat similar to that of the 
Germans is used in the Spanish army. Each tent is required to serve for 
the shelter of six men and has a length of 3.30 meters and a breadth of 
2.50 meters. The Japanese troops, in the war with China, carried a 
shelter-tent of water-proof cotton 3 feet 3 inches by 4 feet 7 inches. 
The Kussian shelter-tent also resembles that of the German military 
service. 

The Austrian army has a somewhat different shelter-tent, weighing 3 
pounds per man. It is made of cotton duck, each piece being lozenge- 
shaped and having a length on the side of 2 meters. The tent may be 
pitched so as to accommodate a large number of men, but usually only two 
men combine their canvas. Each piece of cloth is provided with an aper- 
ture at one obtuse angle, capable of receiving the bayonet and protected 
from tearing by a metal rim. 

The tent may thus be supported by the use of the rifle as a central 
upright, or small jointed rods may be employed for the purpose. When 
pitched, the tent forms a pyramid having a rectangular base 2 meters 
square and a height of 1 meters. It accommodates two men, or in an 
emergency three, and gives a sheltered area of 4 square meters. The use 
of the rifle as a support would seem to be highly inadvisable from a mili- 
tary standpoint. 

Tentage in General. The question of tentage in the field depends 
to a certain extent upon climate, but mainly upon the availability of trans- 
portation. From a military standpoint it is all the better if tents can be 
dispensed with, since they add considerably to the train of an army and 
thus seriously impair its mobility. In active campaign during wet 
weather, when the difficulties of transportation are greatest, tentage is fre- 
quently not at hand when most desired. Hence it is, in time of war, that 
tents find their field of greatest usefulness in camps of a semi-permanent 
character ; during the mobilization and organization of troops and tempo- 
rary lulls in hostilities. 

In general, the requirements of a good military tent are that it should 
not be of too great weight, should be quickly and securely pitched and 
capable of being promptly taken down and packed for transportation. It 
should not be too large, yet, at the same time must be of sufficient size to 
afford an adequate air space ; it should be durable, easily ventilated and aired 
and possess stability in high winds. It should thoroughly protect the 
inmates from the inclemencies of the weather, and should be so shaped as 
to make all portions of the enclosed area of practical availability. 

The material of which tents are made for the military service of the 
United States is eight, ten, and twelve-ounce cotton duck. This" is less 
costly than canvas of other material, and is also less permeable to water 
and less liable to retract in the presence of moisture. Linen tents have 
in times past been tentatively issued by the Quartermaster's Department, 
but have not given satisfaction. In European armies, however, hempen 
or linen canvas is usually preferred. In the German and other foreign 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 867 

services the material used for shelter is often artificially rendered water- 
proof; usually by treatment with acetate of aluminum. This procedure 
is undoubtedly of great value during hard storms, particularly when ap- 
plied to tentage with which no flies are employed, and should certainly U 
adopted in our service. Where water-proofing is used, the material can 
be made much lighter and thus a great saving in weight is possible. 

The color of the ten and fifteen-ounce duck tentage now being issued ia 
of light drab or dusty-brown ; the glare of bright sunlight being thus greatly 
subdued and rendered much less trying to the eyes than in tents made of 
white canvas. This diminution in the intensity of light, always of im- 
portance, is of particular value in connection with hospital tentage. The 
same result is attained in foreign services by the use of interior tent lin- 
ings made of light blue cloth. The drab tent has also the military virtue 
of being inconspicuous and hence less readily attracts a hostile fire ; while 
it presents a neater and more uniform appearance after long exjx>sure to 
the dust of the camp or to the handling incident to prolonged marching or 
campaign. The deadening or darkening of the canvas is not sufficient to 
increase very greatly the absorption of heat rays, although for ordinary 
camp usage in a warm climate a combination of a white fly with the darker 
colored tent is certainly more desirable. With a dark fly the present drab 
tent is insufficiently lighted during cloudy or stormy weather. Unfortu- 
nately the brown dyes used on our tentage in the past have bleached rapidly 
on exposure to the weather. 

In all armies the tent space afforded each man is very limited, and in 
our service the official allowance of tentage is not sufficient to meet the 
demands of hygiene. Hence it is fortunate that about one-fourth of the 
authorized occupants of a tent are, in practice, constantly absent; either 
sick in hospital, on guard or detached duty or otherwise employed. In 
France the tent space is calculated at the rate of 1 1 square feet for each 
foot soldier and 28 square feet for each cavalryman. In our army the 
allowance has varied witli the tent employed, as well as with the condi- 
tions of climate and service. Until lately the United States infantry mar.. 
in the common wall tent, was entitled to only S A square feet of surface 
upon which to dispose his person and equipment; but this sjiace has tieen 
doubled under the provisions of a recent order. This increase in the allow- 
ance of ground space, combined with a constant tendency toward a reduc- 
tion in the numbers of the tent squad, is of the greatest sanitary value and 
also largely promotes the physical comfort of troops. 

Ground and air space being equal, the use of small tents is preferable 
to the employment of larger canvas ; since by the former the danger of 
crowd-poisoning is much diminished by scattering the men, in smaller 
groups, more equally over the company area. 

United States Army Tentage. The common tent, U-tter known as 
the wedge or A tent, was much used during the Civil War. but is fortu- 
nately no longer employed for the shelter of troope. It was not provided 
with facilities for ventilation, and afforded a floor space but 17 inches wide 
and a cubii air space of 18 feet to each of its six occupants. It is now 
issued, in the proportion of one for each troop, battery, n>m]iany or regi- 
mental hospital, for the protection .f subsistence stores, and is also mu h 
employed for the covering of officers' latrines. 



358 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

An improved common tent, having a wall, has recently been issued. 
This, when pitched, has a height of 6 feet 10 inches and a width of 8 
feet 4 inches. The ridge has a length of 6 feet 11 inches, while the 
height of the side walls is 2 feet. The door is 5 feet 6 inches high, and 




FIG. 140. Common Tent, Old Style. 

has a width at the top of 3 inches and at the bottom of 1 foot. The tent 
is made of ten-ounce cotton duck and is equipped with. a sod cloth of 8f 
inches width. It is ventilated by two openings, one in front and rear re- 
spectively ; each being 3 inches wide, 6 inches long and guarded on the 
inside with a flap or curtain. The tent is not provided with a fly, and 
hence is excessively hot in warm weather; the single thickness of roofing 
canvas, unless new, also does not prove an adequate protection against 
heavy or driving rains. To pitch the tent 24 tent-pins of 16 inches length 
are required. This tent contains a superficial area of 57 square feet and 
an air space of 250 cubic feet. The allowance was formerly four mounted 
men or six infantrymen, but this has recently been reduced to three men of 
any branch of the service. This recent allowance gives 83 cubic feet of air 




FIG. 141. Common Tent, New Style. 



space to each inmate. A common wall tent with laced corners is also 
supplied, but has been found to possess no advantages for field service. 
At present its employment is practically discontinued. 

The old conical or Sibley tent, modelled on the lines of the Indian 
tepee, was used to a large extent during the Civil War, and, although no 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 



B09 



longer manufactured, a few are still in existence and utilized by troops. 
It is 18 feet in diameter, 13 feet high and supported by a central pole UJKHI 
a tripod; the latter permitting the ready alteration of the tension of UK* 
canvas. Ventilation is maintained through a circular opening at the apex, 
which, in a stormy weather, can be protected by an adjustable hood. This 
tent has the great disadvantage of possessing no perpendicular wall, and 
hence much of the sheltered space is not available for use ; while the edges 
cannot be sufficiently raised to admit of the free circulation of air without 
endangering the stability of the tent itself. Its capacity has been officially 
prescribed as being seventeen mounted men or twenty infantrymen ; giving 
12.7 feet of surface and 55 cubic feet of air space to each of the latter. 

The conical wall tent, of the pattern approved in 1897, is made of twelve- 
ounce duck. The roof of the tent is in the form of a frustrum of a cone, 
16 feet 5 inches in diameter at the base and 7 inches in diameter at the 
top. The wall is 3 feet high, and the tent, when pitched, has a height of 





Fio. 1C'. -Conical Wall Tent; Model of 1807. 

10 feet. From the top of the wall to the eaves the distance is 10 feet 6 
inches. The door has a nominal height of 7 feet, measured along the 
seam, with a width at the top of 12$ inches and twice that at the bot- 
tom. Practically no provision for ventilation is made with this tent, and 
in this respect it is far inferior to the similar tent, approved in 1888, which 
has an aperture at the top 18 inches in diameter and is provided with an 
adjustable hood for use in stormy or cold weather. The old-style tent is 
excellently ventilated and the air is always sweet and pure, irrespective of 
the number of occupants. The absence of similar qualities in the new 
model is an unanswerable argument against its adoption or issue. The 
conical wall tent is provided with 24 eave lines to permit the wall to be 
looped u} in mild weather. To pitch this tent 24 large and 24 small 
tent-pins are required. The conical wall tent affords 212 square feet of 
floor space and 1,450 cubic feet of air space. It is issued in the proportion 
of one for each twenty foot or seventeen mounted men, but does not fur- 



360 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

nish comfortable accommodations for more than half that number. Being 
without a fly it is very hot in warm weather, though less so than the com- 
mon tent. On the other hand its size, height, and the rapid escape of 




FIG. 143. Sectional View of Old Style Conical Wall Tent, Showing Adjustable Cap for Apex Ventilation. 

heated air through the ventilating opening at the apex render it a difficult 
matter to keep this tent properly warmed during excessively cold weather. 
For temperate climates, however, the modified conical tent, model of 1888, 
appears to be very satisfactory. 

The officers' wall tent, made of twelve-ounce duck, has a height of 8 
feet 6 inches, a width of 9 feet and a length of ridge of the same amount. 
The wall has a height of 3 feet 9 inches. The door is 6 feet 8 inches 
high, and has a width of 12 inches at the bottom and 4 inches at the top. 
The tent is provided with a sod cloth and is ventilated by apertures 6 
inches below the ridge, front and rear, each 4 inches wide and 8 inches 
long, is provided with a fly 15 feet 6 inches long and 9 feet wide and re- 
quires for its erection the use of 10 large and 18 small tent-pins. It has 




FIG. 144. Officers 1 Wall Tent. 



81 feet of floor space and 500 cubic feet of ah- space. The official allow- 
ance gives three of these tents to each general officer, two to each field or 
staff officer, one to each captain and one to each two subalterns ; but during 



'AMI' SITKS AM) ('AMI'S. 



361 



campaign only one wall tent is allowed each general officer below the grade 
of corps commander, together with one for each two other officers, what- 
ever their rank. This tent is never overcrowded and the question of ven- 
tilation requires no serious consideration. Except for the fact that this 
tent is very hot in warm weather, it appears to be very satisfactory for the 
use to which it is put. 

The hospital tent, made of twelve-ounce cotton duck, has a height of 1 1 
feet, a length of 14 feet and a width of 14 feet 6 inches. The wall has a 
height of 4 feet 6 inches ; while the doors are 8 feet 9 inches in height and 
have a width of 18 inches at the bottom and 10 inches at the top. The 
tent is provided with two ventilating apertures, each 5 inches wide and 
10 inches long, placed in the front and rear and guarded with inside flaps 
or curtains. These apertures are located 6 inches from the ridge and 2 
inches from the centre of each end. On the inner edge of the wall is a 
sod-cloth 12 inches in width, which, projecting inward, prevents air cur- 
rents from entering between the ground and the lower border of the tent 
wall. The tent is provided with 26 wall-lines for the purpose of looping 




, 



Flo. l.-HplUl Tent. 

up the wall in pleasant weather, while the same number of foot-stops en- 
able the wall to be pegged closely to the ground. The entrances, front 
and rear, are guarded by broad lapels which can be snugly drawn together 
by means of four door fastenings and an equal number of grommets. If 
necessary, each half of the door can be thrown back to expose the interior, 
while two or more tents can be joined end to end and thrown into a single 
ward under a continuous covering. When this is done, however, the ven- 
tilation is very poor, since the only openings for the renewal of air are in 
the canvas closing in the ends of the ward. Thus it is apparent that pro- 
vision for ventilation in a ward of eight or ten tents is no greater than it 
is in a single tent; and as a result the air becomes so foul that it is gener- 
ally necessary to loop up the walls, with its accompaniment of glare, flies, 
dust and outside annoyances. Where a number of tents are thus pitched 
end to end, entrance and egress of nurses and patients can be had only at 
the fiul of the ward, with great resulting annoyance to the sick in the 
tents near the extremities, especially if the ward be floored. It is there- 
fore apparent that, where tents of this model are used, the hospital wards 
should be made as small as possible ; preferably being composed of no more 



362 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

than three or four tent units. The hospital tent is provided with a fly 
of ten-ounce cotton duck, having a length of 21 feet 6 inches and a width 
of 14 feet. To properly pitch this tent requires the use of 18 pins 24 
inches long and 28 pins 16 inches long. 

This tent, originally expected to accommodate eight to ten patients, has 
had its capacity for many years officially limited to six occupants. Such 
allowance affords 35 feet of floor space and 233 cubic feet of air space to 
each inmate ; an amount which may be considered as usually sufficient for 
temperate climates under conditions prevailing in the field. 

While the use of the hospital tent for other than hospital purposes has 
been long forbidden, its employment was found necessary for the shelter 
of troops in the occupation of Cuba ; it proving more suitable for a tropical 
climate than either the common or conical wall tent. The allowance of 
six men to each tent was soon reduced to four in the tropics thus giving 
each soldier 52 square feet of floor space. The issue of one hospital tent 
to each corps, division or brigade headquarters has also been recently au- 
thorized. For all conditions of field service and varying climate, wherever 
tentage of such size and character can be employed, the hospital tent has 




FIG. 146.- Method of Pitching Hospital Tents on Frames to Form a Ward. 

been shown by long, experience to be a generally useful, convenient and 
hygienic shelter ; being surpassed only by the modification devised by the 
writer, as described in a subsequent chapter. 

In semi-permanent tent hospitals, and where the hospital tent is used 
for the shelter of troops, the tents are frequently stretched over wooden 
frames ; the guy ropes preferably being tied to a single bar, parallel to each 
side, in lieu of tent pins. This arrangement gives far greater stability, and 
at the same time economizes space between tents and facilitates policing of 
the camp space through absence of the pegs and long guy ropes. It has the 
serious drawback, however, of converting a movable into a fixed shelter, 
largely preventing proper sunning and aeration of the tent site and increas- 
ing the dangers of soil pollution. It is scarcely a question whether the 
advantages of the use of frames are not more than counterbalanced by the 
disadvantages for men under canvas can be kept healthy only by frequent 
changes of locality, and where sick are under treatment the rapid pollution 
of soil is inevitable. 

Tentage of Foreign Armies. This subject, though of great magni- 
tude, can receive only brief notice. The " bell " tent used in the British 
army has a general appearance similar to that of our conical wall tent, of 
which it is practically a smaller representative. The base has a diameter 
of 12 feet 6 inches, while our conical wall tent has a diameter 4 feet 
greater; but the height of both is the same, 10 feet. The "bell " tent has 
a ground space of 123 square feet and an air space of 492 cubic feet. It 
is made of linen canvas or cotton duck, and weighs, all told, about 72 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 

pounds. The " bell " tent is intended to hold from twelve to sixteen men ; 
but this has at times been increased to eighteen or twenty. Ventilation 
is very imperfectly carried on througli a few small protected apertures near 
the top there formerly being no provision whatever for such purpose. 
The English hospital marquee is two-poled, with double canvas. It is 
somewhat similar in appearance to our own hospital tent, but is much 
larger. It has a length of 30 feet, breadth of 15 feet, height of sides of 5 
feet, height to ridge of 15 feet, a ground area of 385 square feet and an 
air space of 3,336 cubic feet. This tent is intended to accommodate eight 
patients and is fairly well provided with facilities for ventilation. Small 
circular tents, accommodating four patients each, form a recent addition to 
the hospital equipment. In India the British troops use various kinds 
of tents ; several of these being provided with double flies for greater cool- 
ness and protection from the sun. 

The French marabout or service tent is also somewhat similar in ap- 
pearance to our conical wall tent. Its diameter at the base is 6 meters, 
while its height is 2 meters. It has a capacity of 30 cubic meters and is 
expected to shelter sixteen men. The French hospital tent in general use 
consists of an ogival frame, according to Toilet's principle, covered with a 
double envelope, the outer casing being of linen and the inner of cotton 
fabric the latter is rendered non-inflammable by chemical treatment. It is 
15 meters long, 5 meters wide and 5 meters high, and is intended to accom- 
modate sixteen men, to each of whom it furnishes 11.5 cubic meters of air 
space. The " tortoise " tent is also used for field hospitals, this being merely 
canvas stretched over a wagon, which forms its central support. This tent 
has very many disadvantages and few merits. 

In the German army two kinds of tents are in use. The tent for in- 
fantry is a conical wall tent 12 feet high and 15 feet in diameter; provid- 
ing 70 cubic feet of air space to each of its fifteen occupants. The tent 
used in the mounted service is wedge-shaped, one end being left open, and 
much resembles a large shelter-tent. The German hospital tent in 29 
feet long, 24 feet broad and 13| feet high. It is divided by curtains 
into three parts, a central one for sick and two smaller apartments for 
attendants and supplies. Each tent contains only six patients, though 
double that number might be accommodated. Tents are rarely used in 
the German army, and the cantonment system is practiced almost exclu- 
sively during manoeuvers. 

The Russian infantry tent is 14 feet square and 7 feet high to the slope. 
There is a central pole, with four corner supports. It is intended for four- 
teen men, but is usually occupied by a less number. The floor space is 
largely taken up by a bench, 1| feet broad, around the sides, together 
with a central rack for rifles. This tent is not intended for use during 
campaign, when recourse is had to the shelter-tent alone, and is used only 
in camps of some permanency. In the Spanish army small marquee tents 
are used by officers ; the men using conical tents. The latter are known 
as Nos. 1, 2 and 3. No. 1 has a height of 3.30 meters, a diameter at base 
of 6.39 meters and an official capacity of sixteen to twenty-four men. No. 
2 is 2.96 meters high, has a diameter of 4.33 meters and accommodates 
ten to sixteen men. No. 3 has a height of 2.35 meters, a base of 3.12 
meters and a capacity of four to eight men. The Austrian infantry tent 



364 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



is similar to a large old-style shelter-tent, as used in our service. It is 
wedge-shaped and both ends are left unprotected. It has a height of 
4 meters and covers a ground space 7.90 meters long and 6.60 meters 
wide. 

Improvised Huts. These, during war, afford a means of housing an 
army expeditiously. For purposes of warmth they are far better than tents 
for winter quarters, and may also be used during siege, blockade, or when 
troops are occupying a position which is intended to be held for a consid- 
erable period. This method of sheltering troops by huts has been largely 
developed in our own service, particularly during the Civil War; since, 
excepting during the Crimean struggle, the adoption of such a means of 
protection has rarely been found necessary in European armies. 

In size, the hut should be small rather than large, since the dangers re- 
sulting from soil pollution and the aggregation of large numbers of human 
beings are thus minimized. During the Crimean War, the huts built by 
the Allies were sufficiently large to accommodate from twelve to twenty- 
four men ; but four men, where possible, should form the unit of occupancy. 
Should large huts be employed, the accommodation may be calculated on 
the basis of not less than two running feet to each inmate, where only a 
single row of beds is intended. In the Spanish army the . following pro- 
portions are officially required to be maintained in the construction of 
improvised huts: 



Number 
of men. 


Length, 
Interior, 
meters. 


Width, 
Interior, 
meters. 


Height, 
meters. 


Number 
of men. 


Length, 
interior, 
meters. 


Width, 
interior, 
meters. 


Height, 
meters. 


8 


5.20 


2.70 


2.80 


16.. 


5.20 


4.75 


3.50 


10 


6.50 


2.70 


2.80 


18 


5.85 


4.75 


4.00 


12 


3 90 


4 65 


3.00 


20 


6.50 


4.75 


4.00 


14 


4.55 


465 


3.50 



























Huts should be separated by intervals considerably greater than is nec- 
essary in the case of tents ; since the amount of soil pollution is dependent 
upon density of population as well as duration of occupancy and a change 
of site, so readily accomplished with the use of tentage, is not possible 




> 
j. 2.50 

FIG. 147. Transverse Section of Excavated Hut Used in the German Army. 

where fixed shelters are employed. Efforts to separate huts widely will 
usually be opposed by the desire of the confinanding officer to possess a 
compact camp for convenience in handling his men; but huts should 
never be located nearer to each other than a distance equal to one and one- 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 

half times the height of the ridge. For all permanent camps or winter 
quarters, huts are best arranged in echelon. 

Underground habitations are warm, but are usually damp and always 
difficult of ventilation, and hence should never be employed where other 
protection is available. Even the banking of the sides of a surface hut 




no. 148. Frame for Thatched Hut. 

should be avoided. In the British and German armies, however, many of 
the forms of winter huts recommended are wholly or partially below the 
surface of the ground', and excavation by the soldier is still officially en- 
couraged. 

The materials of which improvised huts are made must necessarily 
vary according to the resources of the locality, and are usually brushwood, 
logs, straw, reeds, clay, turf or stones. The size of such habitations de- 
pends upon the material available for their construction as well as the 
number of men which they are intended to shelter; but, as already stated, 
the unit of occupancy should be small. Huts for warm climates may be 
built by simply erecting a framework with skeleton roof; the latter being 
thatched with straw, reeds or other suitable material. Bark of trees, de- 
tached in large strips by beating witli a flat piece of wood, is excellent for 
the construction of walls and roofing. 
Bamboo has been mucli Used in the British 
service for the construction of temporary 
shelters, and its employment for this 
purpose has given excellent satisfaction, 
notably in the Ashantee and Suakin ex- 
peditions and on the northeast frontier of 
India. In the several campaigns in the 
Soudan, huts were largely constructed of 
sun-baked bricks, their use giving excel- 
lent results ; but like the adobe huts, much 
used in our own southwest, they are leaky 
and damp in anything but a rainless cli- 
mate. According to Smart, one camp in 
Arizona : in existence for ten years, consisted of merely shelter-tent roofing 
over walls of willow- work, with a canopy of brushwood erected over the 
whole to afford a better shade. 

In dry and moderate climates the walls of huts may be constructed of 
poles planted in the ground, or closely woven wicker-work daubed over 




no. Ufc-Mettod oT Ttelchloff. 



366 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

with clay containing a small proportion of some fibrous substance as 
straw, grass or horsehair chopped into short lengths to prevent the clay 
from cracking and opening as it dries. This mixture, of the consistency 
of thick paste, should be worked in with the hands. In the Crimean 
War the so-called " dug-out " was largely employed as winter quarters for 
troops ; and the same shelter is still used to some extent by settlers in the 
prairie states of the northwest, where timber is scarce. Sods, used like 
bricks, make an extremely warm and comfortable habitation but one 
which is scarcely adapted to general military purposes. Like the adobe 
hut, the sod house is valuable only for dry climates, and is both uncomfort- 
able and unhealthful during prolonged wet weather. Where such material 
is available, the walls may be constructed of stone, either kid in mortar or 
chinked with mud alone. 

When timber is abundant, log huts will preferably be constructed ; and 
these, well chinked and plastered with mud or mortar, make comfortable 
shelters in cold weather. They were much used for winter quarters dur- 
ing the Civil War. Such huts, however, unless roofed with canvas, are 




^P^^S!^ 

j*- 3.O J |- 3.O > i 



FIG. 150. Hut Used in German Army. 

usually insufficiently lighted, since windows are difficult to obtain or de- 
vise. Log huts should not be less than six feet under the eaves and should 
afford as much space to the hut squad of four men as the means at hand 
allow. Without a sound roof, walls are of little value. During the Civil 
War shelter-tents furnished the available roofing material ; but the best ar- 
rangement for roofing, as suggested by Smart, consists in the employment 
of a piece of canvas 12 x 14 feet, with a slightly larger piece for use as a 
fly; this giving a hut having six-foot walls a capacity of 700 cubic feet, 
and permiting the free circulation of air through ventilators cut in the 
roofing canvas. It is important that the canvas should be so fixed to the 
walls as to permit of its ready removal for the admission of sunlight. If 
the flooring be of earth, a little of the surface dirt may from time to time 
be removed and replaced by gravel or wood ashes ; the latter, when well 
pounded, making an excellent floor. If sawn lumber be used for this pur- 
pose and the climate be not too cold, the floor should be so elevated as to 
permit the free access of air between it and the ground the boards being 
loose, or held in place by screws rather than nails, to admit of their removal 
for the cleansing of the subjacent space. 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 

In the Crimean War, where various prepared huts were employed, a 
strong opinion existed among the British troops that the men would have 
done better had they been supplied with raw materials and permitted to 
hut themselves. In general, it may be considered that the nearer the 
hut approaches a well-built barrack the greater its superiority over the 
tent but a hut may be so constructed and occupied as to render its use 
inferior to that of canvas. 

The following remarks on the erection of winter huts have been made 
by Smith : " In their construction a space should be 'cleared for about three 
feet around the proposed site. The ground to be included within the 
walls should be smoothed and slightly raised, never excavated, and should 
be ixmnded or hardened. Trenches should be dug around the hut and 
thence in a direction and to the distance required for effective drainage. 
The ground outside may be sliglitly raised, but an embankment should 
never be erected around the bottom for the sake of warmth ; but instead 




rio. 1^1. lag Hut for Four Men. (After Smart.) 

the hut may be lined to a convenient height within, to ward off currents 
of cold air. The cleared space outside should be paved or covered with 
gravel. Wooden floors should be laid, if possible, and suitable provision 
made for the entrance of the air from the outside through either the floors 
or the lower part of the walls. Eaves should carry the rain some distance 
from the walls, and, if possible, porches should be built, as adding much 
to the comfort of the inhabitants. Ventilation should be secured at ridge, 
end and sides." 

The great fault of extemporized huts, in cold countries, is that ventila- 
tion is apt to be sacrificed by the soldier in the maintenance of warmth. 
Further, shifting of the site is impracticable, and a ground area, once con- 
taminated, cannot be abandoned without the expenditure of considerable 
labor. For this latter reason troops should be promptly removed from 
winter quarters on the advent of warm weather. 

Recourse to extemporized huts, built by the men themselves out of 
such rough materials as may be at hand, will perhaps be required in future 



368 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



military operations beyond the seas, but can scarcely be necessary for large 
bodies of men within the present limits of the United States. The re- 
sources of this country are so vast, and railroad facilities are so excellent, 




r 







L J 



.'v 




ID 



that for winter quarters or where canvas shelter is deemed insufficient or 
too expensive, it is probable that sawn lumber for the erection of rough but 
hygienically constructed frame barracks, far more comfortable and suitable 
for the use of troops, will always be supplied. 

Frame Quarters. In 1898, the troops encamped in the southern 
states were quartered for the winter in temporary frame buildings, erected 



CAM I' SITES AND CAMPS. 



MQ 



by i ivilians under contract. These buildings were raised above the ground 
1-y heavy posts resting upon mud-sills, and were closed in with i-indj 
smoothed yellow pine boards, laid horizontally. The roofs and outside 
\\vn covered with water-proof sheathing paper, the boarding extending 
down to the grade line. The windows were titled with sliding sashes, ex- 




M . < N 



-I M 1M U >bO - 

FIG. 154. Sectional View of game Frame Barrack. 



cept those in the gable ends, which were pivoted and provided with cords 
and pulls to enable their manipulation from the floor. Air ducts, 10 x 18 
inches, extended from one foot outside each building to under each stove 
each air duct having a regulating damper where they were finished with 
registers 16 inches in diameter. Each building was provided with three 
18-inch ventilating outlets and with two doors on each side. Each bar- 
rack building was 112 feet long and 26 feet wide, and was intended for the 
accommodation of 64 men, besides containing two office rooms at one end. 
Such a frame barrack was inexpensive, spacious, comfortable and fairly 
well ventilated, and served admirably for the purpose for which it was in- 
tended. It would scarcely have been warm enough for use in a rigorous 
climate, however, unless built with double walls; while the erection by the 
men themselves of such an elaborate structure would scarcely have been 




* / 

Fio. 156. Frame Barrack I'sed In th German Army. Showing rMg* ventilation. 

possible. Buildings erected for troops and buildings erected by troops are 
necessarily quite different in character. 

Frame shelters similar to the above are much used abroad in the per- 
manent campp of instruction, but are occupied by troops only during the 
annual maneuvers. Used in this manner they give entire satisfaction; 
but where they have been permanently occupied, outbreaks of epidemic 
diseases seem to have invariably resulted. In the English service it has 
24 



370 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

been recommended that temporary shelters be sufficient to hold each twenty- 
eight men. The length suggested is 32 feet; breadth 16 feet; height to 
ridge 16 feet. Such a building affords 400 cubic feet of air space per man. 
Two such huts are to be placed end to end, with a single cjiimney between 
them a petty economy not at all advisable, since such large structures 
should always be separated from each other by a distance equal to at least 
twice the height of the ridge. 

In warm climates, where troops are quartered in temporary frame bar- 
racks the roofing material is of the greatest importance. Metallic roofing 
renders buildings extremely hot ; a fact unfortunately disregarded in the 
construction of our temporary barracks in Cuba, where corrugated iron was 
employed. Probably the best available material for such purposes, every- 
thing considered, is tarred paper. 

A convenient arrangement for winter quarters in a not too rigorous 
climate, combining the use of both tents and huts, was devised by Falk 




FIG. 156. Falk's Arrangement for Winter Camps. 

and put into practice in the camp at Anniston, in 1898. In this plan the 
common wall tents in use were pitched in groups of three ; radiating from 
a central frame wooden cabin having a length and width of 8 feet 4 inches, 
or equal to the width of the tent. This building was provided with four 
doorways ; three leading into the adjacent tents and closed by their canvas 
flaps, while the fourth opened into the company street and possessed a 
frame door. The central structure contained the stove and rifle racks, and 
afforded a comfortable lounging place for the men. This system effected a 
great saving in stoves, fuel and tentage ; the central cabins being erected 
at a cost of less than $3.00 each. Ventilation was said to have been good, 
while the tents, used only for sleeping purposes, could at all times be aired 
and their floors raised for the ventilation and cleanliness of the tent site. 
The only objection to the arrangement is one which applies as well to all 
fixed camps the location could not be changed without implying the de- 
struction of the cabin itself. . 

Portable Barracks. Portable barracks, of which there are numerous 
varieties, are usually made of wooden or metallic frames covered with a 
special kind of felt protected by canvas. These buildings are all well ven- 
tilated by windows, flues, cross louvres and ridge ventilation, and, as a re- 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 



371 



suit of careful investigation into their merits, the use of one or another 
model has been authorized in nearly every European service. 

The Ducker portable barrack, made in the United States, has a front- 
age of 17 feet and a depth of 33 feet. There are also front and rear 
annexes, 3 x 5.5 feet, used respectively for vestibule and toilet purposes. 
The building is constructed of double sections hinged together, each en- 
closing a cot, table and stool, and is set up by a locking device without 
the use of screws, nails or external appliances. Expert help is not required 
for its erection, and it is said that two or three men can prepare such a 
barrack for occupancy in three or four hours. Each section weighs about 
oO pounds, and the whole building, when packed, occupies a space of about 
900 cubic feet and weighs 2,500 pounds. The material employed in the 
construction consists of wood frames with panels of patent fiber board, 
protected on the outside with 8 -ounce duck cemented to the panels. If 
desired, a canvas roof with fly may replace or screen the sectional roof. 





FIG. 157.- Section of Ducker Portable Barrack, Open. 



FIG. 158. Section of Ducker Barrack, Closed 
for Transportation. 



The building is excellently ventilated, possesses double walls to modify 
extremes of temperature, and allows 56 square feet of floor space to each of 
the ten occupants which it is planned to accommodate. 

The Doecker barrack is but little different in its essentials from the 
preceding. It is made in Denmark, and has been adopted for use in the 
armies of England, France, Germany, Austria, Denmark and Sweden 
nearly every service requiring various changes in the original model bet- 
ter to suit local conditions. The type of the Doecker barrack used in 
the French army is 15 meters long, 5 meters wide and 5 meters high. 
It is intended for 16 occupants, to each of which it gives 17 cubic meters 
"^600 cubic feet) of air space. When packed, the building weighs 3,600 
kilos (7,900 Ibs.) and requires for its erection the labor of six men for one 
day. According to Laveran, one such barrack building can be carried in 
a single large wagon. 

The Berthon portable barracks are highly commended by Notter and 
Firth. This pattern has not, however, been adopted for use in the military 
service of any nation, and it is difficult to see exactly where its special 



372 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

applicability to military conditions lies. The expense of this barrack is 
considerable. Portable buildings have also been invented by Toilet, 
Espitalier, Olive and others. 

While excellent service can undoubtedly be rendered by portable 
barracks under certain limited conditions, their value for the military ser- 
vice should not be highly estimated. It is evidently impossible, even 
under the best of circumstances, to house in this manner a large number 
of troops, even if first cost and comparative lack of durability did not in- 
terdict such action ; while in time of war their transportation in sufficient 
quantities would evidently become impossible. Frame barracks, well con- 
structed, are relatively inexpensive and are larger and more comfortable 
than portable barracks, and their erection is not a matter of great time 
or labor. Moreover, the latter cannot long withstand rough handling or 
being repeatedly put together and taken apart. Portable buildings, in the 
military service, would probably be of the greatest value in connection with 




FIG. 159. External View of Ducker Portable Barrack. 

base hospitals, or during epidemics when hospital accommodations are in- 
sufficient. They might also be of advantage for purposes of isolation, in 
connection with outbreaks of contagious disease during very cold weather. 
Permanent Camps of Instruction. Nearly all the larger armies of 
the world maintain permanent camps of instruction, which are used by 
troops only during certain periods of the year, usually in the autumn. In 
the majority of these camps the troops occupy rough wooden buildings, 
and there is usually a system of sewerage and a piped water supply. In 
the British service, permanent camps of instruction are maintained at 
Aldershot and the Curragh ; the barracks being light frame structures with 
double walls and capable of accommodating twenty-five men each. In the 
French service, a summer camp was maintained at Boulogne from 1803 to 
1856, at which time it was transferred to Chalons, where a large number 
of frame pavilion barracks have been erected. Until recently the German 
army possessed no special places or facilities for encampment during the fall 
maneuvers, the troops heretofore being billeted on the civil population. 
Recently, however, a temporary camp has been constructed at Boeberitz 
capable of sheltering 6,000 men. The Russian army goes into camp for 



CAMP SITES AND CAMPS. 373 

instruction each summer at Moscow, Krasnoe-Selo and Varsovie the 
troops living partially in frame barracks and partly under canvas. Italy 
maintains temporary camps of instruction at Fojano, San Moraio and 
other placesj and fixed encampments of this character are also maintained 
by Belgium and Denmark. 

Permanent camps of instruction have not been established in the past 
in our army, by reason of the small number of men composing the latter, 
and their dissemination over so wide an area as to render their annual 
concentration not only difficult but costly of accomplishment. It was also 
supposed that the practice march required to be performed each year by 
troops would give sufficient instruction in field service. Recently, however, 
the necessity of having our officers familiar with the management of large 
bodies of troops has been emphasized, and the establishment of a permanent 
camp at some central point as the Chickamauga National Park has been 
strongly urged. If this be done, the location of the camp should be care- 
fully selected, and drained, sewered and piped as if for a post. Rough but 
substantial buildings should be erected, suitable for warm weather, and 
facilities provided for the disposal of excreta and refuse by the most ap- 
proved methods. Should these precautions be neglected, annual outbreaks 
of enteric fever and other infectious diseases may be expected to occur 
among the troops under instruction. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 

The Camp Space. In the establishment of the camp, troops should 
never pass over or form upon ground which is to be occupied by tents, 
since it is most important that this space should be kept clean and the turf 
unbroken. Baggage wagons, also, should be carefully driven in the inter- 
vals and not over the intended tent sites ; not alone for the same reason, 
but also because fouling of the ground by horse urine and droppings is 
liable to occur while the camp equipment is being unloaded. After the 
camp has been established, no traffic of any kind should be allowed along 
its front or through the company streets, so as to limit the production of 
dust or mire as far as possible. 

The outlining of a general plan for grading and trenching a camp of any 
permanency should follow its location ; the details being subject to modi- 
fication as a result of careful inspection of the camp area on the first rainy 
day, when the natural trend of the surface water can be accurately deter- 
mined. The work itself may be gradually done after more pressing duties 
have received attention. The drainage should preferably be toward the 
flank, away from the tents and kitchens. In permanent camps or winter 
quarters the trenches for the removal of storm water from the vicinity of 
the tents may be advantageously paved with pebbles. All surface drain- 
age from higher ground should be carefully intercepted and turned aside, 
and in camps of any permanency such depressions as are liable to retain 
water should be either filled up or drained. 

A hut or tent, even in presumably temporary encampments, is not 
ready for occupancy until protected against invasion by storm water. 
For this purpose, with hospital or officers' tents, a trench having a width 
and depth of four or five inches is dug close to the wall in front and rear, 
and about four inches from the sides on each flank, corresponding to the 
lateral edges of the fly, banking the earth slightly so that no overflow can 
reach the interior. With the conical wall tent, the trench closely follows 
the canvas where it meets the ground. Such a trench, to be of value, re- 
quires an outlet ; and this should lead into a main trench or gutter of a size 
sufficient for the ready conduction of the rainfall from the company area. 

Within the limits of standing camps the construction of roads will fre- 
quently be required, and this possible necessity should receive due con- 
sideration in the selection of the camp site. Pathways should be con- 
structed along the company streets and these, together with those 
communicating with the sinks and kitchens, should be so graded, drained 
or gravelled as to enable the men to avoid mud and water while in the 
performance of their routine duties. In many instances, elevated plank 
walks can be constructed ; or, in a wooded country, split' logs may be used 
for a similar purpose. Where the soil is soft and an abundance of gravel 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 375 

can be procured, it is well to place a thin dressing of the latter material 
over a portion of the company street, and thus ensure a hard, dry area upon 
which the men can assemble in wet weather. 

In the temporary camps of mounted troops the position of the picket 
line is a matter of regulations ; but in standing encampments of large cav- 
alry commands "the animals should preferably be located at a convenient 
distance outside the limits of the camp proper. The picket line should be 
carefully policed, particularly in warm weather, since flies find in horse 
droppings not only a food but a favorite medium upon which to deposit 
their eggs. 

Camps which are occupied for a short time only are generally healthful. 
This, however, is not the case if troops remain on the same site for several 
weeks or months; and the sanitary officer should be fully alive to the 
necessity of fresh soil for tents, particularly with raw troops and a large 
command. In the French campaigns in Tunis it was often noted that the 
troops which remained longest in fixed camps furnished the largest pro- 
portion of sick and experience has amply demonstrated that a camp 
which is not moved will ultimately become seriously infected. On the 
other hand, the evacuation of an infected site is of powerful assistance in 
bringing epidemics to an end. Gordon recommends that camp sites be 
changed every eight, days; while Baudens considered that tents should 
never remain on the same site more than half that time, and in the German 
army, troops are not allowed to Bivouac on the same spot more than twenty- 
four hours ; but the period during which a camp may be safely maintained 
on the same site is a matter which must evidently be largely regulated by 
circumstances. Whenever troops are under canvas, however, unless some 
military reason other than expense or inconvenience prevent, it is always 
desirable that camps should l>e moved at intervals of a week or ten days 
to a distance at least sufficient to clear the confines of the old encampment, 
without waiting until a general infection of the camp or soil has obviously 
been accomplished. It does not suffice merely to strike tents, though 
this, especially in sunny weather, is of much advantage the camp site 
itself must be abandoned. 

Habitations. Grass in the tent area should always be cut short, or, 
in camps of a more permanent nature, pulled up by the roots. Under any 
circumstances, such grass is soon killed, and by its decomposition adds to 
the contamination of the tent atmosphere. The ground composing the 
floor of the tent should be well pounded to render it less permeable, and 
where wood ashes are available they are sometimes used as a top dressing. 
In the German army, if the soil be not considered of desirable character, 
the tent area is excavated to the depth of one foot, and the dirt so re- 
moved is replaced by gravel or ashes and watered and pounded until hard. 
In all camps of any permanency the flooring of the habitations conduces 
much to the comfort and cleanliness of troops. Such flooring, usually >f 
planks, should be in sections of convenient size to permit of its removal 
for purposes of cleanliness and aeration, and should be raised several inches 
from the ground by the use of scantling or split logs. In the French 
army, cement floors have been used in the tents of standing camps and 
have been favorably reported upon. The ground included in the tent area 
is slightly excavated, the excavation filled with broken stone and the 



376 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

whole covered with a layer of cement. Earth should never be removed 
from the inside of tents or huts with a view of increasing space, since such 
an excavation is nearly always damp and the occupants are more exposed 
to emanations from the soil. The danger of excavating the enclosed area 
was well shown in the Crimean War, when the troops were allowed to 
take such action in housing themselves; the sickness and death rate 
among troops occupying such shelters, notably the 79th Highlanders, 
l>e ing far greater than among troops living under other conditions. Sol- 
diers should always sleep above rather than below the surface of the 
ground. 

A certain amount of fresh air may filter its way through dry canvas ; 
but if the latter becomes wet, through rain or dew, the fiber swells to a 
considerable extent and the texture becomes practically impermeable. 
Hence no reliande should be placed upon renewing the air of the interior 
of the tent by any means except the use of ventilating apertures, properly 
located and of sufficient size. With the exception of the latest model 
conical wall tent our tentage may be considered to be fairly well aired as 
military tents go ; although with the former allowance of inmates for the 
common tent the atmosphere was frequently confined and disagreeable 
odors were marked. The excellent ventilation of the 1888 pattern of 
conical wall tent keeps the air constantly sweet and pure, no matter how 
large the number of occupants ; and the same is true of the tent devised by 
the writer, in which ventilation is so free that the inmates are practically 
in the open air. With even the best kind of tentage, however, except the 
pattern last mentioned, on account of the small allowance of air space 
afforded the men, the tent door is best left open except during wintry or 
inclement weather. The walls of tents should also be kept raised as much 
as possible ; and even at night the leeward side may often be looped up 
with advantage. In moderate weather the ventilation of tents is usually 
fairly free, but in winter the effort at the maintenance of warmth implies 
an attempt at the diminution of ventilation on the part of the soldier. 
In extremely hot weather, ho'spital or officers' wall tents may be better 
ventilated by slitting up a seam in the roof near the ridge, inserting a 
notched stick to keep the opening well spread, and thus permitting the 
efflux of heated air between the tent roof and the fly. Tents should never 
be banked up with earth for the sake of warmth, nor should the sod-cloth 
be covered with earth for the better exclusion of air currents. Clean, 
smooth stones may be used for the latter purpose if anything be necessary, 
but no more compact material should be allowed. 

In the bivouac, or where shelter tents are used, open fires afford the 
only means of obtaining warmth. If kindled a few feet in front of the tent 
the interior is usually comfortably warmed, but if a strong wind is blow- 
ing such fires must be carefully located and watched. Fires built for heat- 
ing purposes should not be too large. If small they are more readily con- 
trolled as well as being much more economical of fuel, and if properly 
tended they radiate an ample amount of heat. The camp-fire is best built 
in Indian fashion, one end only of each stick being ignited and the pieces 
of wood being disposed like the spokes of a wheel. By pulling out or 
pushing in the fuel toward the centre, the fire may readily be made to die 
down or burn up more freely. With the conical wall tent, pattern of 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 377 

1888, a small fire of this character may be kindled, in the absence of stoves, 
in the centre of the floor space, the smoke finding its way out through the 
ventilating aperture at the apex. 

The so-called California stove consists of an excavated fire-place in 
front of the tent, with a flue covered with earth and sod running under the 
tent floor and connecting with a chimney in the rear. The hot air and 
smoke are drafted through and warm the tent but it is difficult in prac- 
tice to prevent vitiation of the air in the tent by smoke and gases, and 
accidents from fire are naturally somewhat frequent. 

In stormy or very cold weather, tents are best heated by the use of the 
Sibley stove. This has the form of the frustrum of a cone and is made of 
malleable sheet iron. It has a height of 28 inches, a bottom circumfer- 
ence of 58 inches and a weight of about 19 Ibs. Draft is provided by 




FIG. 160. Arrangement of Stove and Chimney In New Model Conical Wall Tent. 

a triangular shaped vent at the bottom. Recent models of this stove are 
equipped with a spark arrester and cup shelf. This stove is capable of 
burning either wood or coal, while its small size and the small amount of 
iron used in its construction enable it to be rapidly cooled for removal and 
packlbg on breaking camp. It is a rapid and powerful heater, particularly 
where resinous or very dry wood is employed ; and hence the tent is usually 
overheated by the inexperienced through the use of too much fuel. As 
combustion of the fuel is rapid, such a fire requires Constant replenishing 
for its maintenance. Usually the fire is ultimately permitted to die out 
during the night, except in the coldest weather, when the previously over- 
heated occupants of the tent are liable to become chilled. While this 
stove is particularly adapted for use in the conical wall tent, the hospital 
or other tents may be heated by its use the pipe being bent in a double 
right angle and conducted outside the tent through a ventilating aperture. 




378 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Some tents have a hole punched through the roof, sufficiently large to ad- 
mit the passage of the stove pipe and lined with asbestos cloth, tin or zinc 
to prevent accidental conflagration through an over-heated stove pij>e. 
When in use one comer of the tent fly is tied back so as to uncover 
the aperture. As a general thing it is inadvisable to mutilate the tent 
roof, and the rim of zinc or tin around the aperture is necessarily soon bent 
and distorted. Where the collar around the pipe opening is made of 
asbestos it is obvious that the latter objections do not apply. A canvas 
flap may be sewed to the tent roof so as to cover the pipe opening when 
the stove is not in use. 

Improvised huts may be warmed by the use of stoves or open tire- 
places. The latter method is, however, preferable, since it also largely 
^s-^ assists in the maintenance of ventila- 

1 &J/M& ~im' ti n - I n wmter quarters, during the 

early part of the Civil War, the heating 
facilities varied greatly. Open fire-places 
were made of brick, stone, mud or sods, 
with chimneys of the same, with or 
without an additional draft made of 
boards, barrels, sticks and mud or hollow 
logs while habitations were frequently 
warmed by sheet iron stoves with or 

FIO> 16 fc As ^ith ) pro < ^tingmp nd St Ve witnout pipes, open fires in the middle 

of large tents, or what was still more 

objectionable, open kettles of embers from the kitchen fires. Toward the 
end of the war the employment of the open fire-place with a chimney of 
mud and sticks became the rule. 

A double thickness of canvas, one tent being pitched over another, is 
of excellent service in preventing extremes of inside temperature. In the 
Sioux winter campaign of 1890 the officers making use of this arrangement 
had no difficulty in maintaining a comfortable warmth even in the blizzard 
weather of the northwest. The value of this device is officially recognized 
in the Russian army, tents made of double canvas throughout being issued 
for the use of officers; the hospital tents of the English, French and 
German armies are also of double material, the French tent being lined 
with woolen cloth for the attainment of greater equality of internal tem- 
perature. The same arrangement is also of great value in tenting in the 
tropics, since the heat of the solar rays is diminished by the air space 
between the double canvas. Observations made in Cuba, in 1899, showed 
a temperature in a wall tent without a fly of 89 F. At the same time 
the thermometer registered 87 F. in a tent with a single fly and 82 F. 
where one tent was pitched inside another and a fly stretched over all. 

Tent flies are of value in preventing leakage during hard rains, and in 
the diminution of the heating of the interior of the tent during hot 
weather. They should always form part of the canvas shelter of troops 
during summer or in tropical countries. In hot weather, a hospital or 
officers' tent is cooler if its fly be raised ten to fifteen inches at the four 
corners, by supporting it upon pointed stakes of sufficient length. In ex- 
periments made by the writer, the elevation of the tent fly in this manner, 
to the extent of one foot, lowered the inside temperature of the tent from 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 379 

93 F. to 89 F. A tent fly spread in front of a tent of this pattern is 
an excellent protection against a hot sun while the erection of leafy 
arbors above or in front of tents affords a grateful shade without interfering 
with air-currents. Lateral walls for such arbors, however, are in the way, 
impede ventilation and greatly increase the danger of fire. 

Tent ropes diminish in length on being moistened ; and hence should 
be slackened to prevent the tent pins from being drawn, or the supports 
from breaking, if a heavy dew or rainfall is anticipated. When dry, the 
ropes will require tightening to prevent flapping of the canvas, with the 
resulting annoyance of loosening or pulling out of the pegs. The tent 
pins should always be driven at a slight inclination toward the tent rather 
than at an angle away from it, since when so placed they hold much bet- 
ter in wet soil. In sandy places it is difficult to keep tents standing in a 
high wind, as the pegs draw ; and in such instances, the guys may be fast- 
ened to stones or other heavy articles or with small commands the In- 
dian method may be employed, the wagons being pushed between tents 
and the tent ropes fastened to the blocked wheels. Bushes may be buried 
in the sand, the branches pointing toward the tent and one stout bough 
projecting above the surface to which the rope can be fastened. This 
method is an excellent way of keeping tents erect, as the bush forms a 
species of anchor. With soil of such character, a flat stone or piece of wood 
should be placed under the tent pole to prevent it from being forced into 
the ground. 

Tent walls should be looped up at all times during fair weather, so that 
the tent area may be dried and disinfected by the solar rays. Even in 
cold weather, if the weather be bright, the sides of the tent should be tied 
up during the absence of the occupants on drill or other duty. Tents 
should be taken down from time to time, spread open and the inside 
sunned; or, as is customary in the English service, they may be roughly 
re-pitched on a new site and allowed to blow about freely In the wind be- 
fore being replaced on the original tent space. Tents should be struck and 
their enclosed area sunned at intervals of three or four days, provided a 
change to a new camp area or fresh tent site be not practicable. In a 
properly arranged camp the intervals should always be sufficient to render 
possible the removal of the tent to a new site, previously unoccupied. 
Where huts are used, the doors and windows should be opened daily to 
permit of perflation and the entrance of sunlight, and the roof, if canvas, 
should be turned back. 

Bods and Bedding. It may fairly be considered that the surface of 
the earth, under usual conditions, is sufficiently damp to render sleeping 
upon it, without the interposition of some suitable protection, injurious to 
health. Hence the use of the rubber blanket, as a protection from soil 
dampness, is always to be required where opportunity is not afforded the 
men for raising their bodies above the level of the ground. Whenever a 
camp is to be occupied more than a single night, particularly if the site 
or weather be damp, the men should be encouraged to construct rude 
couches of poles, old boxes, barrels, brush or canvas, with a softer layer 
above of hay, straw, grass or twigs. Except in the absence of better 
material, green deciduous foliage should not be used for bedding; but 
pine, hemlock and spruce boughs make excellent and luxurious couches. 



380 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Unfortunately these soon part with their elastic properties and, when de- 
prived of a portion of their moisture, largely increase the ever-present dan- 
ger of tire. In the bivouac, where any choice is possible, it is better to 
spread the blankets on a spot which has been exposed to the sun than on 
a shaded and presumably damp locality. 

Under existing regulations, where mattresses are not supplied, each 
enlisted man in barracks is entitled to receive an allowance of thirty 
pounds of straw per month as bedding; and in camps of any permanency 
the issue of such a quantity of straw for this purpose would no doubt be 
authorized. In the German army, each man is entitled to a bundle of 
straw at each bivouac, taken from the nearest stack. If thrown loosely 
on the ground during the day, along the walls of the tent, such straw or 
hay soon becomes damp and foul and by fermentation practically becomes 
a compost heap. Heiice such material is best woven into sleeping mats 
of three or four inches' thickness ; these being extremely comfortable, per- 
mitting a daily exposure to sun and air, and largely limiting that interfer- 
ence with proper police which the presence of loose straw can scarcely fail 
to induce. Straw mats are made as follows : The straw is twisted into 
ropes and passed around two rows of tent pegs driven into the ground, 
parallel to one another and two feet apart, thus forming the web. Other 
ropes are interlaced to form the woof, and an excellent mat may thus be 
made in a short time. Ordinarily each man should have two mats, one 
for the head and one for the legs ; but if a conical tent be used the mats 
are preferably single. Four men in a single day can readily make suffi- 





FlO. 162. First Step ID Weaving Straw Mats. 



FIG. 163. Straw Mat, Completed. 



cient mats for five times their number two twisting and two weaving. 
Straw employed for bedding should be aired daily, and after being used for 
ten days or a fortnight should be burned and replaced by a fresh supply. 

In camps of any permanency, troops are now supplied with a folding 
canvas cot of excellent pattern. This is very comfortable, and can readily 
be folded up for transportation into a small package about three feet long 
and weighing but fifteen pounds. The cot is very strong and durable and 
is much liked by the men. A fold of canvas at one end furnishes a space 
in which hay, branches or articles of clothing can be retained to form an 
excellent pillow. Cots of this character, like the other contents of ths tent, 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 381 

should be frequently sunned in the open air. When troops are quartered 
in huts or frame barracks the issue of canvas hammocks may at times be 
desirable, since they are comfortable, cleanly and removable when not in 
use ; with a resulting considerable increase of floor space. 

Blankets and bedding should be sunned and aired on each fair day 
either by hanging on supports erected for the purpose or by spreading on 
the sunny side of the tent roof. The former plan is preferable, as it allows 
access of sunlight and air to both sides of the article. Blankets are some- 




FIG. 164.- Folding Camp Cot used in the United States Service. 

times hung in the shade by troops. This is of comparatively little value 
from a sanitary standpoint, as it is the solar rays which are germicidal. 

The Excreta. The preparation of the sinks at once upon the selec- 
tion of the camp site is of the first importance. It will not do to delay 
their construction until the tents have been pitched and other camp duties 
have been performed, but, after the water supply has been guarded, a spe- 
cial detail should be at once told off for the accomplishment of this pur- 
pose. The completion of the sink is to be considered a matter of urgent 
necessity and not one of election, even if it is understood that the com- 
mand is to move on the following day. Such promptness of action will 
largely prevent the surface contamination which would otherwise inevi- 
tably follow; and which, under conditions of infectious disease, favorable 
humus and suitable climatic and topographical conditions, may render a 
locality unsafe for military occupancy even before the camp itself has l)een 
fairly established. 

Under certain military conditions, pending the construction of the 
latrines, a certain amount of surface pollution may become unavoidable, 
and under such circustances some carefully selected spot should be desig- 
nated for the reception of the dejecta ; due precautions being taken that all 
fsecal material is covered with earth by a police party at the earliest op- 
portunity. 

The latrine accommodation provided in camp should be ample, since 
otherwise the health and comfort of troops are unfavorably influenced and 
it becomes impossible to prevent the surface of the ground from being 
fouled. Accommodation should be provided on a tyigher scale in the field 
than in barracks, and sufficient latrines should be constructed to seat at 
least ten per cent, of the troops. In the German army the seating capac- 
ity of the latrines is required to be in the proportion of sixteen places to 
each hundred men. The multiplication of sinks is undesirable, and with 
large commands the construction of a separate latrine for each company 
should not be permitted. One sink for each battalion of four hundred men 
is amply sufficient, and this may be expected to be filled up in from ten 
days to two weeks should the camp be fixed for that length of time. It 



382 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

will receive better attention than would several smaller latrines, and soil 
pollution is also more localized. 

The general location of latrines should depend upon their proximity to 
the various organizations of the command, the length of time the camp is 
to stand, the direction of the prevailing winds and the position of the water 
supply. Their exact position should be determined by the officer in charge 
of the laying out of the camp ; since if left to the discretion of company 
officers they are liable to be so placed as to inconvenience troops of other 
organizations. They should, of course, be located so as to prevent possible 
contamination of the water supply ; and should be placed to leeward of the 
camp, or so that prevailing winds will not carry odors over company areas. 
It would seem superfluous to warn against locating the sink in such a 
position that it can be flooded by storm water from higher ground, yet 
such an error has frequently been made. Latrines should be as far re- 
moved from tents as is compatible with convenience. Under the regula- 
tions of 1863 this distance was set down as 150 paces; but a distance of 
100 yards may be considered as sufficient for ordinary conditions. Ob- 
viousiy, the exact distance at which the latrine is located must often de- 
pend on circumstances. If too near to the tents it will be a source of 
annoyance; if too far, soil pollution is inevitable, for many men, particu- 
larly at night, or if affected with diarrhoea, may either wilfully or of ne- 
cessity defiecate before reaching the sink. 

To insist that sinks and kitchens be widely separated would seem to be 
unnecessary, yet for many years they were, by regulation, located in close 
proximity and even recent modifications leave the matter entirely to the 
discretion of the commanding officer and prescribe no minimum of space 
to l>e maintained between them. During the war with Spain, as a result 
of lack of official regulation in this respect, in certain volunteer regiments 
the sinks were reported as being only a few feet distant from the kitchens. 
A return to the old plan of encampment, in which the latrines and kitchens 
were on opposite sides of the camp area and separated by a distance of 200 
yards or more, is evidently highly desirable. 

If the camp be for a single night only, a latrine trench of a depth of 
two feet will be sufficient ; but where a stay of several days is contem- 
plated the sinks must be made correspondingly deeper. For such camps 
a depth of about eight feet is usually considered as desirable ; but under 
certain circumstances this depth cannot be attained. At Chickamauga a 
superficial rocky sub-stratum frequently prevented excavation to a depth 
of more than three or four feet ; while troops at Tampa awaiting embarka- 
tion for Santiago were encamped where the ground water was at an even 
less distance below the surface. Under such conditions, it is evident that 
either the faecal deposits are insufficiently covered with earth or the digging 
of new sinks must be an almost daily necessity. The employment of either 
alternative would largely conduce to the unhealthfulness of a command ; 
since improperly covered faecal matter emits foul odors and affords con- 
stant opportunity for the spread of infection by means of flies, while a large 
number of shallow sinks contract the healthful limits of a camp. The 
best remedy for such conditions consists, of course, in the abandonment of 
such an undesirable site. Should this plan conflict with military necessity 
then some other method for the disposal of excreta must be adopted. 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 383 

The length of the latrine trench depends upon the number of men 
which the sink is intended to accommodate. For a single company of 
one hundred men a length of twenty feet is sufficient, with a proportionate 
increase for each additional organization. The width of the trench should 
be only of about two feet, since greater breadth is unnecessary and requires 
the use of more earth to cover the excreta. The soil removed from the 
sink should be piled to the rear, whence it can be scattered as needed over 
the deposits. The seat is formed by a stout pole, preferably one from 
which the bark has been removed, laid horizontally at a proper height over 
forked uprights. A back-rest may be formed by a similar pole, but this is 
often omitted. The latrine should be surrounded by a screen of brush, 
leafy boughs, old canvas, gunny-sacks or other available material; admit- 
tance being afforded by a valvular opening. In the British service, strips 
of canvas are supplied for this purpose. Where the camp is to be occupied 
for a night only, the latrine may be left unsheltered ; but where a somewhat 




FIG. 1*15.- Construction of Latrine for Temporary Camps. 



longer occupancy is anticipated some protection from the elements is ad- 
visable and for this purpose the issue of canvas or boards should be 
authorized. In hot seasons or climates, the sink is advantageously covered 
with a roof of boughs to keep off the sun. This shelter rapidly dries, and 
on the abandonment of the camp it should be destroyed by tire. 

WhereVer a camp site is to be occupied more than two or three days, the 
latrine trench should be boxed in and converted into a closed vault, flies 
being thus excluded. The holes should have hinged covers, and these should 
be prevented from being raised to quite a right angle by a horizontal paral- 
lel bar running above the seat. This renders the lids self-closing, and at the 
same time prevents squatting on the seats. To avoid the soiling of the latter, 
a separate place for urination should be provided ; a sloping trough of metal 
or tarred wood answering for this purpose. Access to the pit for the pur- 
pose of covering the dejecta should be had at the rear by a trap door, 
opening outward. Such a latrine should be both ditched and sheltered to 
prevent the vault from being flooded during wet weather. Under such 
circumstances a rain-tight box or bin for the storage of lime should be 
provided, while the seats should be scrubbed daily with soapsuds and a 
strong solution of carbolic acid or tricresoL 



384 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

The care of the latrines is a most important factor in the preservation 
of the health of the command. The usual recommendations in this respect 
simply contemplate the covering of the dejecta with loose earth once in 
twenty-four hours, usually at night. This attention is not sufficient ex- 
cept in rare instances, under favorable conditions of climate, season and 
soil and where but relatively few men are using the sink, and much 
greater and more constant care should be required even in the nightly 
camps while on the march. As a general rule, the old Mosaic law re- 
quiring each individual to cover his own ftecal discharges should be en- 
forced. The chief objection to the covering of his excreta by the individ- 
ual soldier is that of the more rapid tilling up of sinks and the necessity 
for the excavation of new ones. This, however, is the argument of the 
company officer rather than the sanitary inspector, and labor thus econo- 
mized is largely at the expense of the health and comfort of the command. 
Care should l>e taken that unnecessarily large quantities of earth are not 
employed in covering the dejecta and that the amount used is properly 
distributed. In camps of anything but a transient nature, it should be the 
duty of some specially detailed soldier to visit the sink one hour after each 
meal and ensure that the dejecta are fully covered ; reporting its condition 
after each visit to the responsible officer. In addition, the condition of 
the latrine should be personally verified by a commissioned officer at least 
once during each twenty-four hours. When the trench is filled within two 
or three feet of the surface its use should be discontinued, and earth 
thrown in and well raised to mark the site. Sinks should always be filled 
in immediately prior to the resumption of the march. 

The care of latrines has, in the past, devolved upon the soldiers them- 
selves. The repugnance and opposition to the performance of such duty 
manifested by volunteer troops, nowever, together with the inefficient man- 
ner in which the sanitary police has been carried out by them, elicited a 
general order, in 1899, charging the Quartermaster's Department with the 
duty of policing the camps established for the muster out or organization 
of such volunteer forces. This duty includes the construction of latrines 
and the disposal of their contents, as well as of all garbage and waste; and 
for this purpose the purchase of the necessary apparatus and the hiring of 
civilian labor was authorized. The practical results of this experiment 
have been very successful, and with raw troops this plan will probably be 
continued in the future. 

In the construction and location of the sinks, due care should be taken 
so to arrange the screens as to prevent the wind from blowing soiled scraps 
of toilet paper from the trench, and thus distributing possibly infectious 
material during their course through the camp, perhaps ultimately to gain 
entrance into a water supply. Should such paper have been scattered, it is 
to be promptly collected and destroyed. The fragments may be picked up 
on a pointed stick, placed in a gunny-sack and the latter burned with its 
contents at the end of policing. It is well in this connection to emphasize 
the desirability of issuing a reasonable quantity of toilet paper as part of 
the allowance of the soldier, since the use of such material is largely con- 
ducive to both comfort and cleanliness. The employment of objects like 
sticks, grass or leaves may induce or aggravate irritation of the rectum or 
anus ; while, with the lack of washing facilities in camps, their use could 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP.. 385 



scarcely fail to render the person and hands possible agents for the dis- 
semination of disease, through the subsequent handling of utensils used in 
common, clothing and other articles. 

With a moving command the disinfection of the latrines is usually 
unnecessary. In the German army, which never bivouacs two consecu- 
tive days on the same spot, no disinfection of sinks is practiced. In 
camps of a more permanent character, during the occurrence of infectious 
disease, the disinfection of the sinks should be daily carried out and un- 
der such circumstances it is particularly indicated during warm weather, 
when the danger of dissemination of infectious material by flies is con- 
stantly present. If milk of lime is used for this purpose, it is well not 
to lie content with liming the dejecta but to pour a thick whitewash over 
the walls of the trench, so as to leave no resting-place for flies. In the 
absence of any chemical disinfectant, the bottom of the sink may be loosely 
covered with dry straw, hay, leaves or other inflammable material, and 



o: /o> 




' 



-* E 



FIG. 166. <in>und "Ian of Trough Latrine, Showing Seats and Urinal. 

this set on fire. To facilitate this procedure, crude petroleum is sometimes 
sprinkled over the whole. The general methods for the disinfection of 
faecal matter are discussed elsewhere. 

The employment of excavated sinks fully meets the needs of moving 
commands, and furnishes, in fact, the most practicable method for the dis- 
position of dejecta during active campaign. If troops are to occupy a 
camp for but a few days, such sinks, slightly elaborated in detail, are still 
amply sufficient but for camps of a semi-permanent character, particular- 
ly camps of mobilization and organization, latrine trenches should never 
be employed and other methods for the disposal of excreta are imperatively 
required. To meet this need, a plan for camp latrines has been devised by 
a board of medical officers the system having proved itself as satisfactory 
in practice as it is excellent in theory. This arrangement prevents soil 
pollution by either urine or faeces, accomplishes their prompt disinfect inn 
and deoclorization, and is at once cleanly, simple and convenient. It is 
not, however, applicable for winter use in cold climates. The system in- 
cludes the provision of a trough, urinal, latrine shed and excavating apj>a- 
ratus. Each latrine is intended to meet the needs of one hundred men ; 
which number excrete about twenty-five pounds of faecal matter and forty 
gallons >f urine during each twenty-four hours. One excavating apparatus 
is expected to be sufficient for the needs of each brigade. 

The trough, parabolic in cross-section, is of the following dimensions: 
25 



386 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

length, 14 feet; width at top, 22 inches; depth, 18 inches. It is made of 
sheets of galvanized iron, well riveted and smoothly soldered at joints and 
ends. The front and rear sides of the trough are given additional strength 
by means of an iron rod one-fourth of an inch in diameter, over which the 




FIG. 167. Perspective View of Latrine Trough. Section of Lid Open. 

edges are turned. The general shape of the trough is such as to present a 
curved surface throughout ; avoiding corners in which material could col- 
lect and thus ensuring its easy emptying and cleansing. To better accom- 
plish the latter, one end of the trough is raised to a height of four inches 
above the level. This trough is supported by a framework consisting of 
four pieces so cut as accurately to fit its surface ; the four frames being 
placed one at either end of the trough and the other two equally spaced. 




"Fio. 168. Urinal In Trough Latrine. 



These frames are joined at the rear of the trough by two pieces. 1 by 3 
inches, one of these at the bottom and the other at the top of the frame. 
In front, the trough is completely boarded in by 1-inch material. The lid 
consists of two sections, each 7 feet long and containing three and one- 
half openings, or seven openings in all. It is made of 1-inch material; the 



THE SANITARY ADMIMISTRATION OF THE CAMP. :;>s7 



several j)ieces being held together, in front and rear, by a batten 1 by 1^ 
inches wide. Each section of the lid is provided with three hinges at the 
mar. The ends of the trough are boxed in and give support to a board 1 
by 12 inches, rising to a height of 23 inches in front and above the lid; 
the upper edge of this board being cut sloping to the extent of three inches. 
These end boards give support to another board, 14 
feet 4 inches long by 12 inches wide, which is intend- 
ed to prevent men from standing on the lid. This 
board should also be braced from the roof of the latrine 
shed. 

It is thus seen that the trough is enclosed by a 
complete framework, which is intended to secure sup- 
port while in use and safety during transportation, 
should the latter become necessary. When placed in 
position, the height of the upper end of the trough 
above the floor, including lid, should be 20 inches; 
at the lower end 16 inches. This necessitates an opening, in the floor of 
the latrine, corresponding to the width and length of the framework of 
the trough. The rear margin of this opening should be at least 4 inches 
from the studding of the rear wall of the building, so as to permit the 
raising of each section of the lid. The lid of the trough is divided into 
seven spaces, each I foot 11 inches in breadth by 1 foot 10 inches in 
depth ; the sides of the spaces being indicated by a vertical board 4 inches 
in height and beveled at eacli end. Each space is provided with an open- 
ing, so shaped as to prevent, as much as possible, the soiling of its edges 
by faecal matter. This opening, 4 by 3 inches in front, expands to a 
width of 8 by 8 inches, this part having its edges well beveled, and is 




FIG. 109. Cross-Section 
of Urinal. 




Fio. 170. Perspective View of Trough Latrine Shed. 



then extended backward to the rear of the trough and cut away as much 
as possible without weakening too much the strength of the lid. In other 
words, both the front and the rear of the ordinary watercloset seat is large- 
ly cut away. This is intended to avoid both wetting the front of the seat 
with urine and its rear edges with precipitate diarrhceal discharges. 



888 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



The urinal consists of a galvanized iron trough fastened to the end and 
rear walls of the latrine, at a height of 2 feet 6 inches from the floor. It 
measures 9 feet 7 inches in length by 8 inches in width, and has a depth of 
4 inches. Its rear side is extended 18 inches upwards, so as to protect the 
wall of the latrine from any possible contamination with urine. It lias a 
fall of five inches, and empties into the upper end of the large trough by 
means of a pipe two inches in diameter. 

When ready for use, water should be poured into the larger trough until 
it has a depth of at least two inches at the upper end. To this is then 
added one-sixth of a barrel of lime and the two are well mixed with a 
wooden paddle. Lime should, also, be freely sprinkled in the urinal. 

The latrine shelter consists of a frame building 8 by 20 feet, inside 
measurements. The height of the roof at the rear is 6 feet 6 inches. The 

front wall of the building is 
prolonged 2 feet at either 
end, and is provided with a 
projecting hood throughout 
its entire length. This 
hood protects an opening 20 
feet in length by 12 inches 
in width, intended for ven- 
tilation and lighting; and 
which, in warm climates, 
should be extended along 
the sides and rear of the 
building so as to insure a bet- 
ter circulation of air within 
the closet. The lengthen- 
ing of the front wall allows 
for a protected entrance, 2 
feet in width, at each end 
of the building, for persons 
and also for barrels containing disinfectants. A door 3 feet 6 inches by 2 
feet 6 inches is provided at the end of the closet, opposite that of the urinal, 
through which suction hose can be introduced for the removal of the con- 
tents of the trough. Through this door the trough, enclosed in its frame, 
can be removed whenever such action becomes necessary. The closet is 
properly floored and should be lighted at night by a suitable reflecting lan- 
tern. 

The excavating apparatus of this latrine system consists of a strongly 
constructed wagon-bed, mounted on broad-tired wheels, supporting a water- 
tight tank having a capacity of 500 gallons. A 6-inch opening at the rear 
end of the tank, controlled by the turning of a lever, serves for the purpose 
of emptying the contents. Accompanying this wagon is a pumping appa- 
ratus, consisting of a cylinder capable of withstanding*high pressure, two 
20-foot lengths of 3-inch rubber hose, with two pairs of brass couplings 
and a removable handle for working the pump. The latter is single 
acting and in form a straight cylinder provided with one fixed valve (the 
induction), and one movable the latter attached to the piston and moving 
in the center of the cylinder; the openings of both valves being in a 




FIG. 171. Odorless Excavating Tank Wagon, with Detachable 
Pump. 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 389 

direct line. The i>assage of material through the pump is therefore direct 
and without counter currents ; and such is its capacity for passing obstruc- 
tions that sticks, stones, shavings, rags or other obstructions, even if of 
the size of a pair of heavy cloth trousers or a full-size army blanket, are 
pumped through with ease. In fact, any object not too large to enter 
the suction hose will pass freely through the valves without interfering 
with their action. 

This pump is provided with side bars for lifting purposes, and is sup- 
ported on a pair of strong iron wheels. When in use, it is connected at 
each end of its cylinder with one of the ends of the 3-inch hose. One 
free end of the hose is then connected with the pipe on top of the tank, and 
the free end of the other length of hose placed in the trough to bg emp- 
tied. The pump is rapidly worked by one or two men and the contents 
of the trough are quickly pumped into the tank, a gallon or more of water 
being placed in the cylinder of the pump before the connections are made. 




FIG. 172. The Can Latrine System, aa Used in the Camp at Lexington, Kentucky. 

As soon as the trough lias been emptied, the end of the hose is elevated 
and securely closed with one of the couplings provided for that purpose. 
This length of hose is now disconnected, its end closed with the coupling 
and the end of the pump also tightly closed by a valve provided for that 
purpose. The same steps are taken in detaching the other length of hose 
from the tank, and in this way none of the contents of the pump or hose 
are spilled on the ground. The two lengths of hose are placed in position 
along the sides of the tank, the pump is hitched to the rear axle of the 
wagon by the attachment provided, and the excavator wagon driven to the 
next trough which is to receive attention. If the command is removed to 
another camp the pump may be drawn at the rear of the wagon. Three 
men are required to handle each excavating apparatus. 

Various other systems for the disposal of the excreta have also been 
employed in our standing military camps, the types varying with the in- 
genuity of the designer and the material and facilities at hand. These 
arrangements were many of them modifications of the bucket system, as 
shown in the accompanying illustration of a latrine in use in the camp at 
Lexington, Ky. This system as a whole, when properly supervised, gave 



390 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



fairly good results but was quite inferior to the trough system, already 
described. The receptacles were difficult to disinfect or keep clean, and 
by their careless handling the pollution of the soil in the vicinity of the 
latrine was very liable to occur. The system possessed, however, the great 
military merit of being readily improvised and of not requiring the provis- 
ion of elaborate special apparatus. It is used to a considerable extent in 
the French army, and is also employed under certain conditions in the 
British service. 

A removable galvanized iron tub has been recommended for use in re- 
ceiving the discharges of the sick in field hospitals. This tub has a dia- 
meter and depth of 19 inches. It is provided with a wooden seat and lid, 
capable of being securely fastened by brass clamps, so as to prevent spilling 
of the contents during removal to the disinfecting station ; a second lid is 
perforated with a pipe for the entrance of steam or boiling water and also a 

discharge pipe for the escape of the 
contents. When in use, this tub 
should contain several gallons of milk 
of lime. 

From a sanitary standpoint the 
disposal of faecal matter, under any 
conditions, is best accomplished by 
cremation. Bearing this fact in 
mind, a number of attempts have been 
made to perfect apparatus for the de- 
struction of excrement by fire, of 
such construction as to render prac- 
ticable their use by troops in the 
field. Of these, perhaps the most 
satisfactory is the Bissell Incinerator, 
which has recently been given a 
careful trial in the camps of instruc- 
tion of the New York National 
Guard. Reports made upon this ap- 
paratus show that it is capable of efficiently cremating its contents, with- 
out the production of any very offensive odor, within the space of an 
hour. Garbage may also be incinerated, the length of time depending 
upon the nature of the material to be destroyed and the amount of moist- 
ure present. The details of construction and method of operation are 
simple and are plainly shown in the accompanying illustration, the let- 
ter A marking the upper space between the pot or receptacle B and the 
top of the casing ; C is the fire-box and D is the draft passage ; E is a 
passage leading down from an upper space A into the draft passage D, 
and F is an opening leading from the fire-box up into the same passage D. 
A deflecting wall G is located midway between the passage E and opening 
F. The odors from the material in the pot or receptacle are drawn down 
through the passage E by the draft, as indicated by the arrows, and then 
pass through the passage D into the chimney or smoke pipe H, and the 
products of combustion from the fire-pot C pass up through the opening 
F into the same passage; mingling therein with the odors and gases 
from the upper space A, which are destroyed. before passing into the pipe H. 




FIG. 173. Bissell Incinerator, In Vertical Sec- 
tion. 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 391 

The apparatus, as made for military use, has a capacity of 5 gallons and 
a weight of 115 pounds. When the incinerator is full, the wooden seat is 
removed and replaced by an iron cover. Fire is made in the tire-box, wood 
generally being used, and the back of the draft near the chimney-pipe is 
opened. It is stated that the currents of air passing through the apyara- 
tus during accumulation of the ftecal matter are sufficient to carry off all 
odors through the smoke pipe. 

For camps of instruction or mobilization this apparatus appears to have 
given satisfaction, and it may serve a useful purpose under the conditions 
in which the trough latrine system or the Smith crematory later dis- 
cussed would be successfully employed. Recently, however, the effort 
has been made to render this apparatus so transportable as to enable it to 
accompany marching troops, and special latrine wagons are now in use 
in the New York National Guard, each wagon containing eight individual 




Fio. 174. Bissell Incinerator Wagtm for Excrement and Garbage, as Used in the National Guard, state of 

New York. 

incinerators with fuel boxes. These latrine wagons are large and cumber- 
some, and weigh, complete, 4,000 pounds each. There are many practical 
objections to the use of such wagons in the military service. They are 
intended especially for marching troops, but simple excavated latrines are 
in all respects excellent under just such circumstances. The allowance of 
latrine seats in one of these wagons, if it were assigned to a company of 
100 men, would only be eight per cent. ; yet even with this scanty allow- 
ance there would be required, for the needs of a division of 10,000 men, 
no less than 100 latrine wagons. Such an addition to the train would 
seriously impair the mobility of a military force, and the wagons being 
heavy, they would require some 400 animals for their trans) nutation. 
Further, it is obvious that they could not closely accompany a inarching 
column, but would have to form a part of the general wagon train; and 
thus they would not reach the camping ground until some time after the 
arrival of the troops, by whom, in the absence of latrine facilities, the locality 



392 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

would inevitably have been more or less contaminated. This latrine wagon 
is an excellent example of the many devices proposed for army use, which, 
though they may be excellent in theory, are totally impracticable under 
the actual conditions existing in the military service. 

The important part played by urine in the spread of infectious disease, 
more especially typhoid fever, has until recently been practically unrecog- 
nised in the military service, and hence the me thods for its disposition in 
camps have been largely neglected. With the discovery, in 1898, that 
enormous numbers of the specific micro-organisms are often present in 
the urinary excretions of typhoid fever patients, the disposal of the urine 
in any but the encampments of marching troops assumes new significance 
and importance to the military sanitarian. With respect to the destructive 
epidemics of typhoid fever occurring in the home camps during the Spanish- 
American war, the medical board engaged in their investigation considered 



w Tt Yt 




FIG. 175. Sectional View of Interior of Bissell Incinerator Wagon. 

the pollution of the camp site by infected urine as one of the most potent 
factors in their causation. 

Satisfactory arrangements can with difficulty be made in camps to pre- 
vent soil contamination by urine ; not only on account of the facility with 
which the operation is accomplished and the comparatively slight danger of 
its detection, but also because of the idea which has always prevailed as to 
the harmlessness of such action. Faecal matter is repulsive to both sight 
and smell, while urine, passed upon the ground, is neither ; and the soldier 
who fails to resort to the sink 6r urine tub rarely leaves traces behind him 
unless there has been a recent snowfall. Each delinquent, if he considers 
the matter at all, imagines himself to be the only one committing a sanitary 
fault of this character, and relieves his conscience by the thought that such 
an individual act can have no effect upon the general welfare ; failing en- 
tirely to appreciate the fact that his comrades are probably looking at the 
matter from identically the same standpoint. 

If the weather be good, the sinks receive the greater portion of the 
urine voided during the day. In bad weather, some comparatively sheltered 
spot, usually between tents or huts, is often selected for urination; while 
at night all parts of the company area are liable to pollution. Indis- 
criminate contamination of the camp site of this character is a marked 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 393 

characteristic of raw or ill-disciplined troops. It should be specifically 
prohibited in orders ; the infraction of which should be followed by severe 
punishment. To limit contamination of the camp area, it is sometimes well, 
with raw troops, to designate certain places, nearer than the sinks, for the 
reception of urine and in all fixed camps, urinals should be established 
near the canteen and mess shelters. Night-tubs for the reception of urine 
are essential in a standing camp; although if convenient for all they are 
liable to be too near to some. For this purpose, charred or tarred tubs or 
half barrels or better yet, barrel-shaped galvanized iron receptacles- 
should be employed. These should be placed in the center of the company 
streets at retreat and be removed at reveille ; being emptied, disinfected 
and exposed to the sun during the day. While in use, they should always 
contain a sufficient amount of some disinfectant solution, preferably milk 
of lime. The location of the urine tub as well as the latrine should be 
marked at night by lanterns to prevent accidental soil pollution, and with 
semi-permanent camps the locality in which the night tub is placed can 
advantageously be cemented. 

In general, with regard to the observance of sanitary rules as to the 
disposition of excreta, untrained troops are difficult to control and it is almost 
useless to appeal to their intelligence. Concerning the outbreak of typhoid 
fever among the volunteer troops at Camp Alger, Va., in 1898, it was re- 
ported as follows : " By the careless and filthy habits of the men the woods 
surrounding the cam]) became generally the receptacles of ftecal matter. 
Sentinels who were placed to prevent this use of the surroundings of the 
camp failed to report their comrades ; and I do not believe that in a single 
instance an arrest took place for this cause, which was one of the principal 
ones of the infection of the camp." With such undisciplined troops, it is 
evidently necessary that the latrine should be so comfortable and conven- 
ient that it will be preferred by the soldier to any other point for the dis- 
position of his excreta. In this connection, it should not be forgotten that 
savages, although their habits jnay be highly unsanitary, remove their 
habitations from time to time as their surroundings and camp areas become 
filthy and polluted. Raw troops living like savages in their disregard of 
sanitary principles, without moving camp as often as do these savages, 
cannot fail to be scourged by epidemic disease as a result of their ignor- 
ance and neglect. 

Garbage and Refuse. Kitchen garbage should always be kept sep- 
arate from dry rubbish. It should never be thrown upon the ground, and 
should not be buried within the limits of the regimental area unless the 
camp is positively known to be of a transient character. Kitchen refuse 
usually contains about eighty per cent, of moisture, and if present in 
large quantity its destruction by the kitchen fire alone is scarcely practi- 
cal ilr. There is, in addition, a large amount of greasy water which re- 
quires disposition, and this, like garbage, should never be thrown upon 
the camping ground to attract flies and contaminate the soil. In standing 
ramps, all kitchen waste should be placed in tight receptacles; for warm 
weather or climates these are preferably made of galvanized iron, provided 
with lids and capable of being both readily opened and snugly closed. 
Such receptacles should be placed on raised platforms for the better pro- 
tection of themselves and the ground beneath them, and should be emptiest 



394 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

at least once daily. Before being returned to use they should be washed 
and disinfected. Under no circumstances, in such camps, should the 
garbage be buried ; and least of all, to reduce its bulk, should it be dried 
by being thrown on the ground as was done in certain volunteer organi- 
zations in the late war. Besides the resulting soil pollution, such action 
greatly increases the number of flies, which, despite all efforts, infest a 
summer camp of any permanency. 

The proportion of fluid in ordinary refuse from the camp kitchen is 
usually considerable ; and witli small improvised crematories this is a prac- 
tical difficulty in the way of the destruction of garbage by fire. Under 
such circumstances the separation of the solids from the fluid portion be- 
comes desirable. This can readily be done by pouring it over a strainer of 
any kind. The Conley garbage receptacle is an excellent arrangement for 
this purpose. It consists merely of two galvanized iron cylindrical con- 
tainers of the same diameter, each of about one-half barrel capacity. In 
one of the containers the bottom is replaced by a heavy wire mesh, and 
this fits into the top of the second container. The upper receptacle is 




FIG. ITO.-Sanitary Garbage and Refuse Cart, Used In the United States Army. 

closed at the top with a lid. The solids of the garbage are separated out 
and are retained in the upper container in a condition suitable for crema- 
tion. The fluids run through into the lower can and are then readily re- 
moved for suitable disposition. These two containers can be firmly locked 
together to facilitate handling. 

Carts or wagons for the removal of garbage to the place of disposition 
should be made in special designs adapted to their particular purpose, and 
the collection of garbage and refuse with the aid of the leaky and offen- 
sive wooden barrels of an open wagon can have no place in the proper 
sanitary policing of the military encampment. A somewhat popular 
method of disposal of garbage in large camps has been its presentation or 
sale by company cooks to irresponsible civilians, who collect and cart it 
through the camp, without regard to sanitation, in vehicles and receptacles 
not at all suited to the work in which they are employed. Such a dis- 
position of kitchen refuse should never be permitted. The general health 
demands that its removal shall be accomplished in vehicles which do not 
absorb moisture, are water tight and as nearly as possible air tight, are 
easily cleansed and readily loaded and discharged of then- contents. Such 
carts, in the proportion of one to each brigade, should be issued for use 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 395 



with troops in the field under all conditions except those of actual cam- 
paign. In large camps of mobilization or organization, and particularly 
where troops have gone into permanent camp or winter quarters, the em- 
ployment of such special means of conveyance is imperative in the limita- 
tion of soil pollution. A cart of this character has for several years been 
in use in various garrisons throughout the United States and should not 
be permitted to find its only field of applicability in the routine of a well- 
ordered military post. It is built of sheet iron, is water-tight, and is 
provided with closely fitting lids having wide flanges and capable of being 
locked in position. The axle is encased in a steel tube which passes 
through the body of the vehicle. The weight of the cart is 1,500 pounds 
and its capacity 54 cubic feet. The body is well balanced, and is adjust- 
able at any angle for the discharge of the contents and con- 
venience in cleansing. 

A place for the final disposition of refuse should be set aside 
upon the establishment of the camp. This should be at a con- 
siderable distance ; varying, however, with the climate, season, 
size of the command and amount of available transportation. 
It should always be outside of the camp area, placed to leeward 
of prevailing winds and so located as to avoid possible pollution 
of the water supply.. Even upon this spot, kitchen waste and 
other organic refuse should never be thrown upon the surface 
of the ground or dumped in 
ravines and gullies. Such 
accumulations of filth, in the 
presence of heat and moist- 
ure, rapidly undergo fermen- 
tation and decay. They form 
favorable culture media for 
pathogenic bacteria, and from 
their general composition the 
presence of those causing the 
commoner infectious diseases 
may safely be presumed. 

In standing camps, cre- 
mation is the only proper 
method for the destruction 
of garbage. Stable manure, after the daily collection, should be carted to 
the general dumping-ground and there burned ; as should also all slaughter- 
house offal and dead animals. All such refuse as straw, empty tins, rags 
or bones should be subjected to the action of fire ; any incombustible res- 
idue being buried. 

In the field, the methods for the cremation of refuse vary from the use 
of the fire of the company kitchen to the employment of specially con- 
structed crematories. An effective means for the destruction of garbage, 
much used in several of the large camps and in the municipal sanitation 
of Santiago while under military control, consists in its incorporation with 
more combustible material, such as straw or manure, and the saturation 
of the whole with crude petroleum before ignition. In one military camp, 
during the late war, a number of old steel rails were so disposed as to form 




FIG. 177. Improvised Crematory Used at Camp Columbia, 
near Havana. 



396 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

a platform, under which a brisk fire was maintained. The garbage was 
thrown on this platform and was said to have been promptly and efficiently 
destroyed. In the Crimean War, the English burned their camp offal in 
improvised incinerators made much in the fashion of lime kilns ; and a 
similar method was in use in the camp of the 1st Army Corps at Lexing- 
ton, Ky. In the camp of the 7th Army Corps, at Havana, several crema- 
tories constructed from old boilers were in use and were said to have excel- 
lently accomplished their purpose. They were, however, liable to become 
clogged by an incombustible residue unless given careful attention. 

Among the more elaborate forms of apparatus for the combustion of 
garbage and camp refuse, the Conley field crematory is excellent. This 
crematory is made up of but few parts, and these can be readily separated 
from each other and packed so as to occupy but small space. The mate- 




Fio. 178. Conley Camp Crematory. 

rials employed in its construction are sheet iron and asbestos. The side 
walls of the apparatus are each made of four plates, having flanges which 
enable them to be fastened together with stove bolts. The front and rear 
walls are attached to the sides in a similar manner. The top plate of the 
crematory comprises four separable sections which are curved transversely, 
the outer edges having upturned flanges, and when these plates are con- 
nected they are adapted to fit within the side and end walls, resting upon 
projections attached to the upper plates of the side walls. The two rear 
plates used in making up the top have openings, above which and near the 
center are placed hoppers. The other plates have openings over which are 
placed chimneys, which are established adjacent to the corners near the 
front wall. No bottom plates are required, and the side walls rest directly 
upon the ground. Within the furnace is a longitudinal dividing wall of 
sheet iron, possessing recesses in which rest the inner journals of the upper 
grate bars. These are concave in cross section, so that when their con- 
cave portions are upward they form a series of pans in which the liquid 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 397 




FIG. 179. Transverse Section of Conley Camp 
Crematory. 



portion of the garl>age is evaporated. Some distance from the front wall 
of the furnace, and attached to the longitudinal dividing wall, is a vertical 
plate which forms the rear wall of the ash-pit and serves as a support for 
the rear ends of grate-bars of ordinary pattern, which are supported anteri- 
orly by the front wall. Running from the upper side of the vertical 
plate, so as to extend from the rear of the ash-pit and incline upward there- 
from, is a corrugated iron plate, to 
the rear end of which is bolted a 
small curved sheet of metal extend- 
ing to the rear wall. 

The vertical walls below the 
grates, and above the grate-bars and 
the corrugated plate, are covered with 
asbestos, so as to protect the side 
plates from direct contact with the 
name and the longitudinal wall is 
similarly protected. The object of 
corrugating the plate transversely is 
to form a series of recesses which 

will retain a certain amount of the fluids which may fall from the upper 
grates, and such fluids and ashes serve to protect the plate from direct con- 
tact with the flames. 

For evaporation of the fluid portion of the garbage, receptacles are 
bolted to the sides of the furnace above the evaporating grates, and these 
are provided with valved conduits which lead into the furnace above the 
evaporating grates. These receptacles are also provided with small pipes 
leading into the furnace to allow of the escape of the steam generated. 
For camp use the liquid and solid parts of the garbage should be separated ; 
the solid parts being jiassed into the furnace through the doors above the 
grate-bars and also through the hoppers. Wood or other fuel is placed 
upon the lower grates, and when the tire is started the products of com- 
bustion will pass under 
and over the garbage, as 
indicated by the arrows 
in Fig. 180, and when the 
same is sufficiently dried 
one or more of the grates 
may be dumped, so that 
the dried garoage will 
serve as fuel for burning 
subsequent charges. As 
the garbage is heated, the 
grease and other like ma- 
terial is caught in the 
concave grate-bars and the liquid is evaporated ; so that the concave grates 
not only serve as a series of evaporating-pans, but the liquid which they 
may contain will prevent the burning out of the grates. The fluids which 
have been separated from the garbage may be placed in the receptacles 
and fed into the furnace over the concave grates by the pipes provided. 
Each of the grates is provided with means for dumping, one independent 




Fio. 180. Longitudinal Section of Conley Camp Crematory. 



398 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

of the other, so that the required amount of dried and heated garbage 
may be dumped either upon the deflecting-plate or upon the grate. 

The metal plates constituting the sides, ends, top, and division-wall 
are completely covered on their inner sides with sheets of asbestos, which 
have an interposed wire netting or fabric ; such sheets of fire-proof material 
being attached to the plates by staples. 

With this furnace a comparatively small amount of wood or fuel is 
needed to dry out the first charge of garbage, and after the fire is started 
the garbage which is dried out serves as fuel for subsequent deposits. 
When the garbage in one of the grates has been dried, this grate can be 
dumped ; and while maintained in a vertical position the products of com- 
bustion will pass around it between the grates adjacent. Thus should it 
at any time be desired to use only a few of the grates, those that are not 
required may be placed in a vertical position, so that the products of com- 
bustion will pass entirely around those in use. 

By duplicating the construction on each side of the center of the fur- 
nace the garbage may be fed into the same ; so that what is deposited on 
one set of concave grate-bars or receptacles, after having been dried out, 
may be dumped on the grates beneath and used as fuel for a subsequent 
charge. The products of combustion from the garbage on one of the sets 
of grates, as it is being consumed, will heat and dry out the garbage on 
the other set of concave grates, and by feeding the garbage alternately 
through the different hoppers it is used as fuel. 

This crematory has been given a practical trial in the military service, 
and has proved to be an effective way of disposing of large quantities of 
garbage and camp offal. It can be set up by two men in four or five 
hours, and can be taken apart for transportation in much less time. One 
crematory will destroy the solid garbage for a brigade, and will evaporate 
fluids at the rate of 25 gallons per hour. Complete, its weight is only 
900 to 1,000 pounds. But little fuel is required for its operation; and for 
the combustion of camp refuse, outside of excrement, it appears to be in 
all respects very satisfactory. 

A slightly modified form of this crematory, 6 feet long, 3 feet wide and 
33 inches high, has been mounted on trucks for convenience in consuming 
the garbage of a large camp. This is intended to collect the refuse from 
various stations and burn it on the spot or while in transit. It is capable 
of burning all the solid refuse for a brigade, but its evaporating power is 
somewhat less than that of the fixed apparatus. Its weight, without the 
trucks, is about 1,000 pounds. This crematory wagon is constructed with 
double walls around the furnace and also has a flooring of clay to diminish 
the loss of heat. An ash-pit is attached to the furnace just behind the 
rear axle. The smoke-stacks are hinged, so that they may be lowered to 
the top of the furnace during transportation. 

The Smith portable crematory, of which a considerable number have 
been purchased for use at tropical stations, has a wider field of usefulness 
than the above, since it is designed to serve the combined purposes of a 
latrine and refuse crematory. The apparatus consists of a series of hoppers 
arranged in a circle about a central furnace. The urine and faecal matter 
are received upon flat excreta plates, so inclined that the fluid parts flow 
toward the central fire-box and are subjected to constant drying. The 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. :5'.'. 




FIG. lKl.-(ieneral Plan <>f the Smith 
Camp rreiiuiiory. The excreta hoppers 
are cutaway in front to better show the 
detail. 



solid part of the excreta is from time to time pushed from beneath the 
hoppers to a space around the tire-pot, and when dried, can at any time l>e 
raked on the grate and burned. A large evaporating pan is placed above 
the tire for the reception of fluid and solid garbage. When dried suffi- 
ciently, the garbage pan is revolved by a 
crank and the contents are deposited on 
the grate, where it serves as fuel. As the 
garbage falls upon a grate above the tire, 
and not directly ujxm the fuel, there is no 
need of complete drying in the evaporator 
if extra heavy duty is required. 

An advantage possessed by this appa- 
ratus is the possibility of applying the 
flame immediately beneath the excreta 
plates, in order, if necessary, to hasten the 
drying and sterilization of the excreta as 
well as the adjacent parts of the appa- 
ratus. The whole plant may be sterilized 
at baking teinjierature if the draft is shut 
off at the seats. The fact that, owing 
to its peculiar construction, the central tire, 
while drying out the' excreta and garbage, 
does not increase the temperature of the 
closet must be considered as another ad- 
vantage, especially in hot climates. In operation, the apparatus is odorless. 
The ventilation is excellent, the downward draft through the hopper 
seats being sufficiently strong to prevent the egress of flies. This venti- 
lation is secured by means of a pipe three feet in diameter, rising to a height 
of forty or more feet. The crematory is economical in action and capable 
of using as fuel almost any combustible material, such as wood, under- 
brush, straw, manure or soft coal, and the full capacity of urine, excreta 
and wet garbage can be desiccated and burned in the short space of three 

hours. This apparatus is 
transportable in the sense 
that it consists of a num- 
ber of pieces of cast iron, 
joined together by bolts, 
which can be taken apart 
by ten men in five or six 
hours and re-erected in 
about the same time. The 
weight of an apparatus 
suitable for the needs of a 
company is, however, 
about 5,200 pounds, while 
a crematory sufficient for 
. the needs of two compa- 
nies would weigh about 
7,000 pounds. The por- 

Fio. 182.-PUn of Smith Camp Crematory above Cloaet Hoppere. tability 'IS therefore only 




400 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




such as would permit of its erection in more or less permanent camps, in 
which, after all, the need for such a crematory alone exists. This cre- 
matory, after exhaustive trials in the United States and Cuba, was strongly 
recommended by the several boards appointed to pass upon its merits, and 
appears satisfactorily to fulfill every purpose for which a camp crematory 
can be required. 

Whatever be the methods employed for the reception, gathering 
and disposal of garbage and refuse, they should be under the direct super- 
vision and control of a medical 
officer. 

Camp Police. The term 
police, in the military service, 
implies the maintenance of 
cleanliness rather than of order, 
and for its proper execution 
the commanding officer is re- 
sponsible. Company officers are 
required to maintain neatness 
and proper sanitary conditions 
within their respective organiza- 
tions, and the police of the 
company area devolves upon the 
men of that command. In the 
regimental camp the work of 
general policing comes under 
the jurisdiction of the officer 
of the day, who has control of 

the prisoners and guard and is responsible to the commanding officer for 
the order and cleanliness of the camp. The general work of policing is 
performed by prisoners; but if these are insufficient, fatigue details are 
made from the command. With inexperienced troops, or with an incapa- 
ble administration, the maintenance of proper police is rare; and under 
the former circumstances the more distasteful duties of camp police may 
advantageously be performed by civilians. The general police detail cleans 
up the regimental area, attends to the sinks and the disposal of refuse, and 
performs any other duties which may be necessary for the sanitation of 
the camp and the comfort of the men. To ensure the proper performance of 
this policing, inspections are required by regulations ; monthly on the part 
the commanding officer and both daily and weekly by the company com- 
mander. The daily inspections are largely concerned with the sanitation 
and interior economy of the company the weekly inspection being more 
in the nature of a military formality. This system ensures that any con- 
ditions unfavorably affecting the health or comfort of the command are 
promptly known to- those individuals by whom their remedy can be ac- 
complished. The maintenance of cleanliness of the camp requires syste- 
matic and constant watchfulness on the part of officers and special regula- 
tions as to police, suited to existing conditions, can with advantage be pro- 
mulgated from time to time. 

Company streets should be swept daily, and the intervening spaces be- 
tween huts or tents should be carefully policed. All refuse should be at 



FIG. 183. Horizontal Section of Smith Camp Crematory 
above the Excreta Plates. 



THE SANITARY ADMINISTRATION OF THE CAMP. 401 

once removed, and nothing left behind to serve as a starting-point for fur- 
tlii-r accumulation. The interior of habitations should be maintained in a 
state of scrupulous cleanliness, and should be swept or brushed out daily. 
Serviceable brooms for camp use can be made by tying together a number 
of small twigs of equal length or the leafy branches of trees may be made 
to answer a similar purpose. If improvised bedsteads have been con- 
structed, articles should not be allowed to collect under them; while if 
huts are occupied as quarters, special attention to the cleanliness of beams, 
shelves and other out-of-the-way places is required. All arms, blankets, 
and bedding should be daily exposed to the sunlight to prevent dampness, 
and the floor of the habitation should be cleared. Poles supported by 
forked uprights may be put up in suitable places, and are convenient for the 
drying and sunning of garments and bedding. 

In camp, as well as in barracks, neatness and order are of great impor- 
tance and their maintenance should be required. A want of care about 
the disposition of the equipment of the soldier would seem at first sight to 
be a military matter; but from a sanitary point of view it indicates a lax- 
ity as to detail which, if not corrected, will often result in carelessness as 
to cleanliness of the j>erson and surroundings. 

An accumulation of organic matter under the floors of tents or huts is 
a certain result of the absence of an efficient police; while if dirt floors are 
used, every care is necessary to limit their contamination to the minimum 
by the maintenance of cleanliness. In any but transient camps, food 
should under no circumstances be brought into tents. Special shelters 
should be provided for use at meals or otherwise the remnants of food are 
certain to be scattered about the tent area and its vicinity. Dogs, in any 
number, should never be allowed in camp. In general, no contamination 
of the air space should le permitted, save that which necessarily depends 
upon occupancy. Before the al>andonment of an old camp, its site should 
be as thoroughly policed'as if its continued occupancy was contemplated. 

An uncleanly summer camp is soon subjected to a plague of flies, which, 
in addition to its direct effect in promoting disease, becomes a serious 
source of irritation and annoyance to the command. To protect against 
such an invasion, or to limit its effects, due care should be given to the dis- 
position of the excreta and refuse. As already stated, the latrine trenches 
should be enclosed and darkened and flies excluded; such an arrangement 
being insisted upon by the sanitary officer in any camp of comparative per- 
manency. It is short-sighted economy which takes into consideration the 
small additional expense involved; yet certain commanding officers and 
quartermasters will l>e found, for this reason, to oppose such a suggestion. 
Lime, freely used, repels insect life as does also crude petroleum. The 
latter, well sprinkled over an open latrine trench, is most valuable in keep- 
ing flies away from its contents. The low cost of crude petroleum, sixty 
to seventy-five cents per ban-el, renders its employment not at all expensive. 

The condition of the outskirts of the camp requires careful attention, 
and the removal of refuse from the camp area only to deposit it on the 
surface in the vicinity should never be permitted. The purlieus of the 
encampment should be kept as free from noxious material as the camping 
ground itself. Cleanliness should not be considered as accomplished, if the 
camp present a neat appearance while at the same time hidden foci of pos- 
26 



402 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

sible infection are permitted to exist. The sanitary index of the encamp- 
ment is not to be found in the best cared-for huts or tents, but rather in 
those presenting conditions least desirable from such a standpoint. A single 
filthy habitation is a standing menace to the sanitary condition of the others. 
Soil contamination in camps is only a question of time, and the length 
of time a camp site can be safely occupied by troops depends largely upon 
the efficiency of its police. If proper cleanliness be not maintained, and 
dangerous refuse be not removed, the frequent transfer of the camp itself to 
a fresh site becomes imperative. It should be remembered that the use of 
disinfectants in camp is entirely subordinate to a frequent change of site 
and an efficient police. 



CHAPTER IX. 

POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 

THK general requirements for a healthful liabitation are thus summed 
up by Parkes: 

(1) A site dry and not malarious, and an aspect which gives light and 
cheerfulness. 

(2) A condition of house construction which ensures perfect dryness 
of foundation, walls and roof. 

( 3) A system of ventilation which carries off all respiratory impuri- 
ties. 

(4) A pure supply and proper removal of water, by means of which the 
proper cleanliness of all j>arts of the habitation can be ensured. 

(5) A system of immediate and perfect sewage removal, which renders 
it impossible that the air or water shall be contaminated from excreta. 
To this may be added : 

(6) An arrangement for the sufficient and equable distribution of heat. 
Location and Arrangement of Posts. The same considerations of 

topography, soil, and exposure which have been discussed in connection 
with the location of camps, obviously apply with even greater force in the 
selection of sites for ]iermanent posts and barracks. With camps, a bad 
site inadvertently chosen may be readily abandoned; but a post, once es- 
tablished in a locality of unhealthful character, is, from motives of econ- 
omy, given up with reluctance. In the ]>ast it has often happened in our 
service, where military stations were injudiciously located or planned, that 
this was due to the fact that the jxjsition taken depended upon a chance 
combination of circumstances. Frequently the needs of the service re- 
quired a location, originally occupied for temporary purposes only, to be 
permanently garrisoned; and thus from a camp or winter-quarters a mili- 
tary post was developed. Old buildings which had been hastily erected 
and roughly constructed for temporary shelter only, were usually retained 
in the permanent ]>ost to serve certain purposes and save labor. In many 
instances the post itself, thus brought into existence, was regarded as 
merely temporary, and no effort was made to drain, plan or beautify it. 
This method of developing a post lias many obvious disadvantages ; and it 
is in general far preferable to let any rough work which may have been 
performed go for nothing, and start fresh on a carefully selected site, with 
a well-defined plan from the outset. In the future, under more settled 
military conditions, any such hap-hazard methods of development as liave 
obtained in the past will scarcely I* necessary and in all instances 
the opinion of a sanitary officer should be obtained with reference to the 
location and arrangement of a proposed post before its construction. This 
has not always been done in the past; and at many stations, in the 



404 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

establishment of which this precaution was omitted, the sick rate as was 
to be expected has been unduly high. 

In addition to the general requirements of a healthful site for habita- 
tions, as given elsewhere, the ground in the vicinity of barracks and quar- 
ters should usually be under-drained to a depth of six or eight feet. Statis- 
tics show that where the level of the ground water has been lowered, the 
health of the locality drained lias been much improved. Buchanan found, 
in a large number of towns in England, that under-draining of the soil was 
followed by a marked decrease in the prevalence of tuberculosis. At Sal- 
isbury the mortality from this cause fell 39 per cent. ; at Rugby 33 per 
cent.* and at Worthing 36 per cent. The greater the number of drains, 
the better the result in retentive soils ; but in gravel and free soils no 
more drains are required than will properly lower the ground water. As 

dry a site as possible should be 

1 selected ; bearing in mind that 

damp soils are always insalu- 

E^^Mil brious, and that it is a difficult 

and costly task to make an 
unwholesome place healthy. A 
safe rule to follow is to choose 
a site from which there is drain- 
age and into which there is 

O 

no drainage; this applying to 
sub-soil as well as surface 
water. Usually such condi- 
tions can be satisfied in the im- 
mediate vicinitv of a point 

FIG. 184. Ground Plan of Fort Ellis, Montana, Showing . . . . J . r . 

Old Method of Grouping the Buildings of a Post. which it IS desired to garrison. 

Made-ground should be avoided 

as sites for buildings unless the soil is known to be free from organic pollu- 
tion, in which case the site may be healthy. 

Posts should preferably be located away from the immediate vicinity 
of large cities. This usually gives more free space and purer air, while at 
the same time it limits the various temptations to vice which beset the 
soldier. In towns, density of population has a direct influence on the 
mortality of the inhabitants, and this rule appears to hold good also for the 
military service. Buildings should therefore not be crowded together; 
but on the other hand, too much ground in a post is undesirable, as it in- 
creases the difficulties of drainage and police. Buildings are properly 
lighted, aired, and sunned if no two are placed nearer to each other than 
twice the height of the ridge of the taller building. 

In their aspect, long barrack buildings, in temperate climates, should 
face the east to receive the full benefit of the sunshine, and give it access 
to both the long sides of the structure. It is desirable, also, that they be 
broadside to the prevailing wind ; and if built on a slope that they should 
be end-on to the side of the hill. In their arrangement, no special* dispo- 
sition is essential from a sanitary standpoint so long as the barracks do not 
interfere with each other in respect to the free sweep of the wind. In the 
British army the pavilion barracks are placed in parallel lines. 

In our own service, posts were long constructed on the four sides of a 




POSTS, BAKBACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 405 

square, with a central parade as is well shown in the accompanying 
plan of Fort Ellis. This quasi-defensive arrangement, a relic of the old 
stockaded posts necessary in the days of early Indian warfare, is no 



FORT ETHAN ALLEN, 
VERMONT. 




Fiu. 1N5. Poet of Modern Construction, Showing Arrangement of Buildings. 1, Commanding officer's 
quarters; 2, officers' quarters; 3, guard-house ; 4, barracks: 5, band Quarters; 6, saddler shops; 7, 
hospital; 8, non-commissioned staff quarters; 9, cavalry drill-hall ; 10, cavalry stables ; 11, post ex- 
change; 12, bakery; 13, store-house ; 14. store-bouse ; 15, scale-bouse ; 10, forage-bouse; 17, shops, 18, 
ordnance ; 19, fuel shed ; 20, oil-house ; 21, magazine ; 22, water tower. 

longer required, and there is now no reason why a compulsory external 
form should govern internal arrangement. Posts built on this plan are al- 
ways unsightly from the exterior, some of the buildings are necessarily 
badly oriented, and full advantage of the surface configuration of the 



406 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



ground is not attained. In general, the arrangement of the buildings, after 
reasonable convenience of administration is secured, should be varied in 
their relations according to the nature of the locality selected. This plan 
has been followed with advantage* in the establishment of a number of 
posts of recent construction; among them being Forts Sheridan and 
Ethan Allen, plans of which are given in the accompanying illustrations? 




FIG. 186. Plan of Fort Sheridan. Illinois. 1, Officers' quarters: 2, non-commissioned staff quarters; 3, 
chapel ; 4, barracks ; 5, mess-hll ; 6, infantry drill-hall ; 7, fire station : 8, post exchange ; 9, gun shed ; 
10, guard house: 11, ordnance store-house; 12, bakery: 13. storehouse; 14, cold storage; 15, shops; 16, 
quartermaster's stable ; 17, wagon shed ; 18, stable guard house : 19, forage storehouse ; 20, cavalry 
stables ; 21, stable sergeant and saddler ; 22, cavalry guard house ; 23, cavalry drill-hall ; 24, magazine ; 
25, bachelor officers 1 quarters and mess. 

Arrangement and Plans of Barracks. While military barracks 
appear to have been employed in Eome and Constantinople about the time 
of the Christian era, then 1 use was shortly afterward discontinued. Dur- 
ing the Middle Ages the armies were comparatively small; and standing 
forces, as organized bodies, were not maintained. Where the shelter of 
soldiers became necessary, they were quartered on the civil population 
much to the detriment of all concerned. During the feudal period, bands, 
of armed retainers were sheltered by the nobles to whom they owed alle- 
giance and afforded protection, but no large bodies of troops were main- 
tained on a permanent footing. About two centuries ago, however, the 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 407 



C3 
K 



m 


B 






Fin. 187. Modern Arrangement of Buildings in u Garrison Sta- 
tion of Infantry, French Army. A. B, barracks; c", canteen ; 
>, store-house ; K, stables ; O, kitchens ; H, mess-balls ; /, 
infirmary; K, bath-houses; L, latrines; U, urinals; .V, 
guard house*. 



necessity for constant military preparedness caused the establishment of 
large permanent forces ; while the more rigorous standard of discipline in- 
troduced rendered it still 
further necessary to bring 
soldiers together for habi- 
tation and control. 

The barracks at first 
erected, as devised by Vau- 
ban, were large, and planned 
with special reference to 
economy of space. They 
were of several stories in 
height, and were built 
around the four sides of a 
square court-yard ; entrance 
being had at the corners. 
They were imposing in ap- 
pearance and capable of 
excellent use for defence. 
The men were kept well in 
hand, communication by 
the central corridors' and 
inside porches was easy, and 
the enclosed court was ad- 
mirable for military exercises. From the point of hygiene, however, their 
defects were both numerous and grave ; the central court-yard was damp, 
not exposed to air currents, and badly sunned ; two sides of the barrack neces- 
sarily had an undesirable exposure ; the latrines, kitchens, hospital and other 
accessory institutions were in the same building, and with mounted troops the 
horses were stabled on the ground floor of the barracks the last condition 
not being entirely done away with at the present time in the barracks of cer- 
tain armies. Some of the barracks built on this plan were enormous, 
several accommodating 3,500 men, and one, at Lyons, holding 5,000 men. 

An epidemic once started in a bar- 
rack of this size and character 
could not fail to be severe, and 
buildings of such nature were soon 
justly regarded as unhealthful. 
In spite of this fact, square en- 
closed barracks have from time to 
time been erected in the French, 
German and Italian services, and 
such were recently built for the 
accommodation of Spanish troops 
in Cuba and other colonies. 

A modification of the original 
type of Vauban barrack consisted 
in locating four linear, but de- 
tached, buildings in the form of a 

FIG. 188.-6round Plan of Original Style of Barrack*. Rn iiflrf> leaving the rorners onpn 
as Devised by Vauban. (After Putzey*.) square , leaving Uie 




408 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



to permit of the circulation of air through the court-yard. In these bar- 
racks the galleries were left off and greater attention was given to ventila- 
tion as a result they 
proved much more 
healthful. 

To avoid the disad- 
vantages of an interior 
court and the bad orien- 
tation of a part of the 
barracks, about the mid- 
dle of the present cen- 
tury a linear type of bar- 
r a c k was introduced ; 
this plan being much 
^ used abroad. It was later 
B found to be inconveni- 
ent from the necessitv 

91 

of having the kitchens, 
lavatories and latrines 

j3 

a in the main building 
? as it was originally 
planned and these ac- 
cessories were then put 
| in additions extending 
from each wing. While 
s very convenient for the 

1 double or single company 
% barracks used in our own 

V 

2 service, this latter ar- 
rangement also proved 

E unsatisfactory in foreign 
? armies, in which a large 
number of men are ha- 
e bitually quartered to- 
gether. A linear plan of 
barrack was then resorted 
to, containing merely the 
quarters of the men, 
while the kitchen, lat- 
rines and lavatories 
were put in detached 
buildings. This, in 
general, is the plan at 
present employed in 
most modern barracks 
abroad; but the barrack 
buildings used in the British sendee are chiefly pavilions, having a capac- 
ity of but one company, while on the continent these buildings are large 
and substantial structures. In the German army, the newer type of bar- 
rack has accommodations for a battalion. 




POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 409 



In the British service, a revolution in barrack construction occurred as 
a result of the investigation of conditions in that army immediately after 
the Crimean War, an example which other foreign nations have strangely 
been somewhat slow to follow. During this investigation, all the barracks 
in the United Kingdom were 
examined and many were found 
very defective. The death rate 
among troops in barracks at 
that time was 17.11 per thou- 
sand strength ; while among the 
civil male population between 
the ages of twenty and foity it 
was 9.8 per thousand, or about 
one-half. The beneficial results 
of improved barrack construc- 
tion and management were 
speedily shown in the greatly 
diminished mortality and sick- 
ness among the men; and in 
1876 the mortality among 
troops had been reduced to 
nearly 2 per thousand less than that of the military class in civil life, 
while the amount of hospital accommodation necessary for troops was de- 
creased from 10 to 6 per cent. The modern British barrack is most simple 
in its construction, being of one or two stories in height and containing 
on each floor a single squad-room, sergeant's room, lavatory and night- 
urinal. For a regiment of infantry, thirty such barrack units are re- 
quired. Each squad-room is 77 feet long, 21 feet wide, and 10 feet 
high; affording 600 cubic feet of air space and 57 feet of superficies to 
each man. Five square feet of window space are allowed per capita; meas- 
urements being taken within the inside bead of each frame. The beds are 
placed in pairs between the windows. These buildings, when placed lon- 
gitudinally in parallel rows, are required to have a clear distance between 
them equal to at least twice the height from the ground to the eaves. 

In the French army, a modified form of the English pavilion barrack, 
devised by Toilet, has been tried in the garrison at Bourges and has 




FIG. 190. Transverse Section of Toilet's Pavilion Bar- 
rack, as Used In tbe French Army. 




-U- 



Fio. 191. <i round Plan of Toilet's Pavilion Barrack, as Used in the French Army. 

given much satisfaction ; in spite of which, apparently from financial rea- 
sons, it has not been generally adopted in the French service. Such barrac-ks 
are built of brick and iron, and have a special arrangement of the roof and 
inner wall designed to prevent extremes of temperature and to facilitate 
ventilation. The outer walls are built of solid brick, the inner of hollow 



Riute Nationale N 1S3 de Bourqes a Dun le Roi 



410 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

brick ; between the two being an air space of about five inches thickness. 
The floor is covered with cement or bitumen and is raised about two feet 
from the ground ; the latter, under the building, being given a coating^ of 
concrete. The pavilion is extremely simple in detail, as shown in Fig. 
191. The air space per man, allowed in these barracks, is 775 cubic feet. 
This pavilion system of barracking troops is regarded with much favor 
by foreign sanitary officers. In services which still use larger and more 

solid barrack buildings 
under ordinary circum- 
stances, the pavilion sys- 
tem lias been adopted for 
the permanent camps of 
instruction already noted. 
In our own service 
the character of accom- 
modations for troops 
varies with the post. 
The material entering 
into the construction of 
barracks has largely de- 
pended upon availabil- 
ity; while the plans of 
the buildings, in many 
cases, have had particular 
relation to existing mili- 
tary necessity and con- 
siderations of economy. 
While some barracks are 
well built and are excel- 
lent in character and 
condition, others were 
hastily constructed, es- 
pecially at western sta- 
tions, from poor material 
and without proper ref- 
erence to ventilation or 
other sanitary require- 
ments. After several decades of use a number of these buildings have be- 
come unfitted for occupation ; and from such stations there are constant 
complaints of overcrowding, defective ventilation, bad construction, in- 
sufficient means of heating, undrained sites, leaky roofs and general dilap- 
idation. In some instances, needed repairs and alterations have not 
been made, on the supposition that the post would soon be abandoned ; 
yet the latter has sometimes been continued, from year to year, for 
considerable periods. A steady improvement in the sheltering of troops, 
however, has gone on during the past ten years, partly by the construc- 
tion of new posts but more especially by the abandonment of old ones ; 
as many as a dozen stations having been discontinued in a single year. 
At present, as a general rule, the barrack buildings of our army may be 
considered to be in passable sanitary condition being comfortable, 




Fio. 192. -Arrangement of French Barracks, Pavilion System, at 
Bourges. a, fo. Entrance pavilion ; c, kitchens ; d. Infirmary ; e, 
latrines ; /, guard house ; (/, canteen ; li, stables ; ?i, lavatory. 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 411 



clean and fairly well ventilated. There are nevertheless certain excep- 
tions to this rule, and it is undeniably true that the habitations of our 
soldiers have not in the past received the attention which they de- 
served. With respect to barracks, equally with other matters, a false 
economy has considered many things as luxuries for soldiers in garrison 
and hence to be gone without which are regarded as necessities in civil 
life. This attitude is much to be deplored, particularly since the military 
spirit strongly tends to limit complaint and criticism on the part of those 




Fio. 198. First Floor Plan of Artillery Barrack for One Hundred and Twenty Men. 

most concerned, and favors unquestioning acceptance of what may be offi- 
cially provided, regardless of character or quality. Economy was formerly 
long too much of a watchword among those having the supply of our 
army in charge; they apparently overlooking the fact that the train- 
ing of a soldier necessarily represents a large financial outlay, and that 
below a certain point, irrespective of humanitarian considerations, diminu- 
tion in expense of maintenance means an increased and disproportionate 
wastefulness of life, health and efficiency. In this connection it may be 
added, also, that in view of past mistakes in construction no buildings in- 
tended for occupancy by troops should be erected by the construction 



412 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

department until the plans have been examined and approved by a sani- 
tary expert. It may be accepted as a general rule that where barracks 
are not of the best character the sick-rate will be proportionately high. 

The habitations which have been erected within the past few years for 
the shelter of our troops are excellent in their internal arrangements, and 
the later plans leave but little to be desired. The recent phange from 
double sets of barracks to those accommodating a single company is much 




FIG. 14.- -Second Floor Plan of Artillery Barrack for One Huudred and Twenty Men. 

to be commended. The general plan of these new barracks is a main 
building with one or two wings. The former arrangement is preferable, 
as being more compact, convenient and better exposed to sun and air. 
The new artillery one-company barrack, capable of holding 120 men, lately 
adopted in our service, is far superior to anything of the kind provided in 
foreign armies. This barrack, however, like nearly all those lately erected, 
has the lavatory and latrine in the main building on the basement floor. 
Although these fixtures are so located as to be exposed to light and air on 
three sides, yet their location in the main building at all is to be depre- 
cated. They are best placed in a detached structure, reached by a covered 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 413 

way for shelter in stormy weather. The general arrangement of the build- 
ing, however, is admirable from the standpoint both of hygiene and con- 
venience. The central hallway affords great assistance in ventilation. 
The 1899 plan of barrack for 100 men, with two wings, is far less desirably 




arranged. The latrine and lavatory are beneath the mess-room, and the 
squad -room on the first floor can be reached only by passing through the 
day-room. While the squad-rooms on the upper floor have the advantage 
of containing but two rows of beds, they are much too large and shelter 
nearly twice as many men as should be placed in a single room. Where 



414 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



such large squad-rooms are employed, the men occupying the bunks nearest 
the door are at a great disadvantage from the constant passing in and out. 
The men themselves also much prefer smaller squad-rooms, through the 
greater opportunity for comparative privacy and more congenial association 




which is thus afforded. In general, squad-rooms should be sufficient to 
accommodate not more than twenty to twenty-four men. 

General Principles of Barrack Construction. In considering the 
construction of barracks, only those points which have a well-recognized 
influence upon the health and welfare of their occupants will be discussed ; 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 415 

nor can these, in a work of this character, be gone into in detail. Barrack 
construction is a subject of such magnitude and importance that to treat 
it fully in all its phases would require a special volume. 

The barracks now being erected in our service have walls of brick, 
stone or wood. In a few of the old posts, log barracks or those made of 
adobe are still in use. The material of which barracks are built is not, 
however, a matter of small importance. Walls should be non-conductors 
of heat and cold ; and the substances of which they are made should be as 
carefully chosen as those for clothing, which serves a similar purpose with 
reference to the individual. Bricks are undoubtedly superior to all other 
materials for l>arraek construction in every part of the country and under 
all circumstances. They are light, cheap, readily made, easily handled and 
durable. They are very retentive of heat, from their porosity, in the ab- 
sence of wind ; but this very porosity becomes a fault in heavy storms, 
when air and moisture may be forced through them. In fact, so much is 
this the case that it is desirable, in all brick walls, to make these of suffi- 
cient thickness to include a layer of mortar. Bricks absorb water readily 
and hence should not come in direct contact with the soil; an ordinary 
brick is capable of taking up about one-sixth of its weight of water, though 
very hard bricks take up less. For partition walls, bricks are excellent. 
Stone walls have the advantage of strength, durability and sightliness; but 
are porous and absorbent of water, though less so than brick. .Gallon 
showed that, as regards heat, the conductibility of marble was twice that 
of freestone, four times that of glass, six times that of brick masonry 
and more than seven times that of plaster. Experiments made by Put- 
zeys gave similar results. It is therefore evident that the Spanish style 
of building brick walls with stucco outside finish is admirable not 
only for hot but cold climates. A frame wooden building is, in general, 
merely a cheap substitute for something better, and it is to be regretted 
that buildings of such material are being erected for the shelter of troops 
in garrison. They are comjwiratively cold in winter and hot in summer, 
and are very combustible and liable to deterioration. Logs will probably 
be no longer used for barrack walls except for small isolated stations in 
Alaska. When used for such a purpose, they should be peeled and squared, 
for round logs and chinking are a poor dependence. Adobe walls may be 
used in regions where there is little rain. Buildings constructed of this 
material are warm in winter and cool in summer. They are very absorb- 
ent and st>on become contaminated with organic matter; and if there 
is much sand in the dirt from which they are made, insects are sure to 
work into them. 

Cellars usually add much to the healthfulness of a barrack, but the 
level of the ground water should lie at least four feet below the cellar floor 
and the latter should be rendered impermeable to moisture and ground air. 
In addition, the cellar must be well ventilated. In cellars which are not 
floored with some impermeable material, the ground air gains ready en- 
trance being forced upward by a rise in the ground water or drawn up 
by aspiration into heated dwellings. In buildings without cellars the air 
is apt to be damp and musty, but a damp cellar is worse from a sanitary 
standpoint than none at all. Under certain conditions the under-draining 
of cellars may be necessary, but where this is actually required the site is 



416 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




undesirable. To best prevent dampness and the rise of ground air in 
cellars, a layer of clay about one foot in thickness should be spread over 
the bottom of the excavation, and this should be covered with a layer of 
concrete, while a coating of asphaltum is added over all. This method, 
however, is somewhat expensive, and in .our new barracks reliance is had 
on a single layer of concrete four inches in thickness. In damp soils this 
is certainly insufficient. Barracks without cellars should be elevated suffi- 
ciently above the ground to permit of ready inspection and policing of the 
space underneath, without the necessity of taking up the floors. This space 

should be well ventilated and should 
have a flooring of concrete. The 
latter requirement is rarely carried 
out in our service, in spite of its 
importance. 

Foundations should be suffi- 
ciently solid and deep enough in the 
ground to give strength to the 
building. Where the ground is 
soft, or a solid foundation cannot be 
reached, the walls should be on a 
platform of at least four times their 
breadth. For this purpose concrete 
foundations are far preferable to 
those of stone, since they prevent 
moisture from rising by capillarity 
from the ground into the walls and 
thus rendering them permanently 
damp. The base of the walls should 

be expanded into footings ; the lowest course of which should be twice the 
breadth of the walls, while their height should not be less than two-thirds 
of the wall thickness. 

It is of great importance that the portion of the walls below the sur- 
face of the ground should be free from dampness. In our own service the 
effort is made to accomplish this by coating the outside of the wall with 
cement plaster, filling in the excavation outside the walls with stone fill- 
ing, and under-draining below the foundation level. A better method, 
much used in England, cbnsists in exposing the lower walls to the air by 
excavating the earth around them to the level of the foundation. This 
excavated space is walled on the outer side and under-drained ; but unless 
protected by gratings or railings such excavations are inconvenient and a 
source of danger. Sometimes the surrounding air-space is made very nar- 
row, and merely serves to prevent the main wall from taking up moisture 
by capillarity. Another method calls for the isolation of the wall by a 
broad air-space going several feet below the surface, the lower portion of 
the wall being prevented from absorbing moisture by an outside layer of 
cement or asphalt and sometimes by a narrow air-space. The , part of 
the wall below the ground is built double in some foreign barracks. The 
outside portion is cut off from the inner wall by an air chamber, while 
moisture is prevented from rising into this inner wall by damp-proof 
courses. Asphalt plates, fastened together by heat, are strongly recom- 



Fio. 197. Method of Flooring Cellars to Prevent 
Dampness, o. Disconnected air-space lined with 
cement ; />, asphalt ; c, concrete ; (?, clay. 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 417 




Fio. 198. Method of Preventing Dampness 
of Walls. letters DC denote location of 
damp-proof course. 



mended by Putzeys for protecting ground walls and cellars from soil 

moisture. 

Walls above ground draw much moisture from the portions below the 

surface, unless special measures of prevention are taken. These usually 

consist in inserting damp-proof courses in the walls about six inches above 

the ground ; these courses consisting of 

any suitable material imfrvious to 

water. Usually slates, embedded in 

hydraulic cement, are employed ; some- 

times sheet-lead is used, or hollow 

tiles or perforated vitritied brick. On 

internal walls the damp-proof courses 

are usually laid at the level of the 

concrete flooring. Above ground, 

also, walls take up considerable moist- 

ure. Against such dampness hollow 

external walls are the best protection. 

These walls consist of two thicknesses 

separated by an air space two or three 

inches in width ; better located nearer 

the external than the internal face of 

the wall and extending completely 

around the building, including the 

corners. These two thicknesses should 

be bonded together with iron, for bonding of brick readily transmits moist- 

ure by capillarity. A damp-proof course is needed at the top of exposed 

walls, such as parapets and chimneys, to prevent storm water from soaking 

downward through the masonry. This is usually provided by finishing 

the top with stone and letting it project an inch or two over the side ; or 

else having a damp-proof course of slate laid in the masonry at its junc- 

tion with the roof. Many water-repellent combinations for coating the 

outside of walls have been proposed, but ordinary paint is very efficacious 

for this purpose. Where double walls are 
built, no other measures for securing dryness 
are, however, required. In the construction 
of our barracks solid walls are used, the 
lathing and plastering being furred out two 
inches on the inner side. This arrange- 
ment does not by any means give the b6st 
results as regards dryness of walls, but is 
cheaper. Dampness in walls greatly favors 
conductibility as regards heat, as well as 
having a relationship to the development of 
micro-organisms. The subject has therefore 
both an economical and sanitary impor- 
tance, since damp barracks require an ad- 
ditional expense for heating and favor 
catarrhal and rheumatic affections and tu- 
berculosis. The construction of walls also 

w has a 8tron B mfluence u P n conductibility 

27 




FIO. iw.-Meujod of preventing Damp- 



418 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



of heat, and with equal thicknesses a hollow wall transmits heat much 
more slowly than if solid. It is true that the construction of double 
walls implies a slightly greater original outlay ; but this is ultimately 
much more than saved by resulting economy in heating, and it is impor- 
tant to remember that in cold climates proper ventilation and sufficient 
warmth cannot be combined with undue cheapness of construction. This 
point is emphasized by Carpenter, who gives the following figures for the 
amount of heat, expressed in British heat units, passing through solid and 
hollow walls ; per square foot of area, per degree difference in temperature 
and per hour : 



Thickness of 
wall In inches. 


Single wall, 
brick or stone. 


Wall with air space, 
brick or stone. 


Thickness of 
wall in inches. 


Single wall, 
brick or stone. 


Wall with air space, 
brick or stone. 


4 


0.43 


0.36 


18 


0.26 


0.19 


8 


.37 


.30 


20 


.25 


.18 


12 


.32 


.25 


24 


.24 


.17 


16 


.28 


.21 


28 


.22 


.15 



In winter, the air of the non-conducting space between walls should 
be confined, so as to limit the convection of heat by air currents. In sum- 
mer or hot climates there should be some means of escape for the heated air, 
especially at night, and it is advisable to make openings above and below 
which can be shut during the day, or when low temperatures prevail. 
With single thick walls, in cool weather, the layers of air which come in 
contact with them are rapidly cooled down, with resulting condensation of 
their moisture and dampness of the room. In general, the thickness of bar- 
rack walls is determined by the size and height of the building rather than 
other considerations. Very thin walls do not properly protect against heat 
and cold, but unnecessarily thick masonry unduly increases the cost of the 
structure. 

No wood -work should be placed in a barrack except where absolutely 
necessary for carrying the floors or roof, or fixing the fitments of the build- 
ing. In the German barracks of recent construction no wood enters into 
the walls. Where wood is used, it should be so arranged that its shrink- 
age or decay will not affect the strength of the wall, and where the timbers 
receive support they should rest on stone templates with space for ven- 
tilation around them. No part of the wall should rest on them ; nor should 
they be run into chimneys on account of the danger from fire. Iron could 
with advantage largely replace timbers in barracks ; being not liable to com- 
bustion, decay, or impregnation with organic matter. It has, however, 
the disadvantage of rendering floors somewhat more conductive of sound. 

The method of constructing floors and ceilings is of much importance 
in retaining heat. In cold climates, where the floor is of poor character, 
it is difficult to secure anything like evenness of temperature in a room. 
In the roughly constructed barracks of the abandoned post at Poplar River, 
Montana, the temperature during winter was noted as 30 F. higher at 
a point six feet above the floor than at the level of the latter. For ordi- 
nary purposes, wood is the best material for flooring. The material should 
be of good quality hard wood, if possible and should be tongued and 
grooved. If the latter material is not used, open seams invariably result 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 419 

from the unavoidable shrinkage of the lumber. Fire-proof floors are made 
of iron, beams embedded in cement, on which is laid a solid wooden floor-sur- 
face. These are now always put into German barracks. In certain French 
barracks, movable floors, made of boards tongued and grooved at the ends 
as well as the sides, have been used to facilitate cleansing of the under- 
spaces. Such an arrangement is both unnecessary and undesirable. With 
wood floors, skirtings are employed to hide the joint between the walls 
and floor-boards. They are preferably let into a groove in the floor, thus 
preventing draft and the accumulation of dust. Floors of cement or 
tile are too cold for northern climates, though admirable for the tropics. 
Cement gives rise to a highly irritating dust, while tile and mosaic soon 
become rough and uneven. Bitumen has been recommended for floors, 
as not wearing readily and being easily repaired. For lavatories and 
latrines the best flooring is the so-called "terrazzo," consisting of small 
pieces of marble laid together in cement and then smoothed down. A 
latticed wooden standing-board may be placed over it where required. 

The height of the ceiling is a matter of great importance in barracks, 
since low-ceiled rooms are hot and close. For temperate climates the 
height of the ceiling should be about twelve feet ; for warm climates four- 
teen or fifteen feet. If the height be too great, much difficulty in wann- 
ing will l>e experienced during winter. 

The space lying between the floor and ceiling of consecutive stories 
is often a source of danger in barracks of old or improper construc- 
tion. It being desirable to prevent the passage of heat, odors and 
sound, builders not rarely partially fill the spaces between joists with 
so-called pugging; usually composed of plasterers' rubbish, but sometimes 
of sawdust, tan-bark, chopped straw or similar substances. All these are 
inflammable and liable to decay, and hence are objectionable. Further, 
these interspaces may afford lodgment to pathogenic micro-organisms ; and 
even if the material used for filling be originally clean, it soon becomes in- 
fected. Dust, bacteria and moulds sift in through the cracks, often in 
large quantities. Water used in washing the floors percolates through, 
carrying organic matter with it; and in the warmth, darkness, and stag- 
nant air of the underlying space the bacteria find conditions favorable 
to their development. Later they may be driven back into the barrack- 
room by air currents resulting from agitation of the flooring; and thus, 
even if the floor itself be clean, dangerous sources of infection to inmates 
may be constantly close at hand. Putzeys states that in some cases the 
soil in the vicinity of latrines is no more dangerously contaminated than 
the material found between the floors of barracks. Notter found large 
collections of organic debris under floors ; and Uffelmann has reported an 
instance in which a cubic meter of material removed from such spaces, 
weighing 1,510 kilograms, lost by calcination 118.5 kilograms not con- 
sidering 24 kilograms of water and contained 1,718 gm. of nitrogen and 
508 gm. of nitrous acid. Laveran states that the tearing up of floors in 
old barracks has apj>arently often given rise to outbreaks of disease. To 
prevent these interspaces from being a source of danger they should be 
orginally clean and free from all foreign matter. The flooring should be 
double, with tight seams ; the upper layer being of tongue and groove 
boards running at right angles with the lower layer.. Between these two 



420 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

layers there should be a thickness of heavy water-proof builders' paper, 
with the edges of the strips well overlapping. The interspace is thus com- 
pletely shut off from the room above. Where flooring is laid above earth 
the same arrangement should be employed. The subjacent space should 
not be too small, and should be kept dry, carefully policed and well ven- 
tilated. New flooring should never be put down over old floors, which are 
worn, filthy and often infected. To do so is to preserve the dangerous 
qualities of the latter. 

Slates furnish the best material for the roofing of barracks. They 
should be smooth, hard, but not brittle, and give a metallic resonance 
when struck. They should not take up water readily, and when stood on 
edge in water for half their depth, for several hours, the water should not 
rise to the top. In laying slates they should overlap two or three inches; 
the flatter the pitch the greater the overlapping required. Large slates are 
usually laid at a slant of 22, while an angle of 26 is required for smaller 
slates. The roof should be boarded over and covered with heavy builders' 
paper before the slates are put in position, the paper rendering the barrack 
cooler in summer and warmer in winter. Corrugated iron, zinc and tin 
roofs are not suitable for barracks through their great conductibility for 
heat. According to Grunzweig, if the conductibility to heat of a roof made 
of wood and cement is 100, it is 265 when made of corrugated iron. When 
made of double planks separated by a layer of air of 30 millimeters thick- 
ness, the conductibility to heat is 99 ; while where tiles are used and are 
made to overlap three times in one foot the conductibility to heat is but 
58. From this it is apparent that tile retards the passage of heat more 
than four times as much as does corrugated iron, and is hence far superior 
for use in barracks, especially in hot climates or the tropics. Where tiles 
are used, a slant of 45 is required to give the best results in shedding rain. 
Tiles should be well baked, hard, and as little absorbent of moisture as 
possible. If zinc or tin roofing is employed, their faults as regards the con- 
duction of heat may be to some extent overcome by a double roof, with 
ventilation of the interspace. Such metal plates may be laid nearly flat, 
at an angle of only 4 to 5, with their edge's overlapping to allow for ex- 
pansion and contraction. Shingles should not be used for the roofing of 
barracks where better material can be obtained. As to form, the mansard 
roof is of much value in protecting the remainder of the building from 
extremes of temperature. The space under this roof, however, is unfit for 
occupancy by troops. Defects in roofs are a frequent cause of dampness, 
and these are especially liable to occur around chimneys and partition walls. 
Gutters in such places should be of lead. Eaves are finished in different 
ways. They should always be provided with gutters to throw the rain 
well away from the walls, and where the latter are not given consider- 
able slope which is unsightly they must be larger than would other- 
wise be required. Drain pipes from the gutters must be fastened well 
away from the wall, to prevent soakage of the latter should the pipe break 
or become clogged. Such pipes should never be connected with ground 
drains or sewers, but should discharge over a grating in the open air. 

Chimneys should be higher than surrounding buildings, so that their 
draft may not be in any way interfered with. Each fire should have 
its separate flue clear to the top of the building. This should be circular, 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 421 

as straight as possible, and smooth and plastered inside. Iron castings are 
sometimes used to line flues, these separating the flues from the house- 
structure and maintaining a better draft. 

The number and size of windows to be placed in barracks must depend 
to a considerable extent upon climate. Usually there should be one win- 
dow to every two beds, equalling in area one-eighth to one-sixth of the wall 
space. Windows are always to be placed opposite to each other, and should 
run from a point about 3 feet above the floor line nearly to the ceiling. The 
upper sash should be freely movable; and may, in warmer stations, be made 
so as to swing inward. Windows are weak points in the structure of bar- 
racks in cold climates, having a high diathermancy. For such climates, 
double windows and doors should always be provided, and the distance be- 
tween these also notably affects the loss of heat. The German Government 
has adopted the following for loss of heat by windows : Heat transmission in 
British heat units per square foot, per hour and per degree differences in 
temperature 0.776 for single windows and 0.518 for those provided with 
double sashes. These figures are increased by ten per cent, for very exposed 
situations. The actual economy in heating by furnishing storm windows to 
barracks is evidenced by the above. Sometimes double panes of glass are 
set in the window frames to retain heat, but these are quite inferior to 
double sets of sashes for this purpose. For summer use or hot climates, 
screen doors and windows are a sanitary necessity. The men must be 
able to eat and sleep in peace and comfort; besides which flies and mos- 
quitoes play important parts in the dis3emination of certain diseases which 
are especially prevalent and fatal among soldiers. At warmer stations, 
galleries on the southern exposure of the barracks are essential. 

For the inner finishing of Irarrack walls nothing has been found more 
satisfactory than lath and plaster, furred out from the main walls at a dis- 
tance of two inches. Ordinary plaster, however, has many disadvantages, 
being porous and readily absorbent of moisture and organic matter. Such 
plaster is used in most foreign barracks, but is scrai>ed and whitewashed 
every six months as a sanitary precaution. This latter practice should be 
adopted in our service for all old barracks. While walls should be of 
porous material on account of their lesser conductibility as regards heat, it 
is none the less true that their surfaces should be non-absorbent. For the 
outer surface such a quality is valuable as largely preventing the penetra- 
tion of atmospheric moisture or storm water. For the interior aspect im- 
permeability is also important ; since it has been shown by Vallin that the 
close and often offensive odors found in some barracks depend chiefly upon 
the impregnation of porous walls and floors by organic matter, deposited 
upon these cold surfaces as the result of condensation of the vapor given 
off from the breath and other sources. While organic contamination in 
this manner is at no time great, it is carried on indefinitely and the results 
are ultimately marked. For these reasons, efforts looking to the rendering 
of walls impermeable should always be made. In many of our new bar- 
racks adamant plaster is used, as being harder and less porous. The soap- 
stone rinish, a superficial layer composed of two parts plaster and one of 
soapstone, is hard, smooth and may be washed. Several proprietary prep- 
arations, capable of being applied by either brush or spray, are now 
used to harden plaster walls and render them less absorbent. Oil paints, 



422 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

varnish and asphalt have been much employed for the same purpose. 
Laveran recommends the use of paraffin dissolved in petroleum or turpen- 
tine. Rough-finish plaster walls should never be allowed in barracks, as 
serving to catch and retain dust and bacteria. Wainscoting, about bar- 
racks, is to be absolutely condemned ; being absorbent of odors and organic 
matter and soon becoming infested with insects. The corners of barrack- 
rooms should invariably be rounded to facilitate cleansing ; not only at the 
junction of walls, but also where the walls meet the floor and ceiling. This 
rounding need not be excessive to answer all purposes. 

Arsenic is not infrequently found in certain colored paints, especially 
various shades of green. These should not be used about barracks; since 
the arsenic is liberated in combination with the hydrogen of the air, and 
when respired may produce chronic arsenical poisoning. Zinc paints ap- 
pear to be more durable than lead paints and possess no toxic qualities. 
Silicate paints have been recently introduced and are said to be very sat- 
isfactory. The so-called " duresco " hardens the surface to which it is ap- 
plied, can be washed, is not toxic and repels moisture. 

Barrack Furniture and the Care of Barracks. The furniture of 
squad-rooms includes shelves and hooks for clothing, lockers, beds, bed- 
ding, chairs and gun-racks. 

Shelves, usually double, are provided in nearly all barracks. They 
afford a convenient and, in fact, the only practicable place for keeping the 
more bulky articles of the uniform, and are much appreciated by the men. 
Usually of such a height as to permit the clothing-hooks to be hung below, 
their upper surfaces are thus not readily open to inspection. From this 
fact, accumulations of dust are liable to occur upon them, these to be later 
disseminated by brushing or by currents of air. To prevent this they 
should be wiped off weekly with a damp cloth, all articles being removed 
from them for the purpose. That such cleansing has been properly carried 
out is readily determined by touch with the white glove. In many bar- 
racks, company commanders have authorized the use of pieces of colored 
cloth, tacked on the upper shelf to hide the lower shelf and the garments 
hung below it. This custom should be opposed as favoring stagnation of 
air, a lack of order and the possible retention by the men of articles unde- 
sirable in a squad-room; and in addition such curtains themselves soon 
become soiled, dusty and unsanitary. The latter faults might be partially 
remedied by frequent washing, but this will in practice rarely be carried 
out. 

Lockers afford security and a convenient means of caring for the 
smaller articles of clothing and personal property. They are chiefly sup- 
plied in the form of low wooden boxes, with a single tray, capable of being 
pushed under the bed. In the barracks of later construction, however, 
lockers are built against the wall in the form of small closets. These usu- 
ally soon become infested with vermin ; and being fixed, they cannot be 
removed for sunning and cleansing as can the box lockers. From a sani- 
tary standpoint they are much less desirable than the latter. Lockers re- 
quire careful inspection, since soiled and damp clothing is often kept in 
them to the detriment of clean apparel. 

Barrack bags, of brown cotton duck, are now supplied as receptacles for 
soiled clothing prior to washing. They are excellent for this purpose, but 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 423 




must themselves be frequently washed, since otherwise in hot weather 
they become odorous and are apt to aflbrd lurking-places for insect para- 
sites. This washing is, unfortunately, rarely performed. 

Much improvement in the sleeping arrangements of soldiers has been 
made of late years in all armies. This is particularly noticeable in our 
own service, which is far better equipped, in 
this respect, than are those of foreign nations. 
Not fifty years ago, in the British army, even at 
tropical stations, wooden bunks were usually 
built in several tiers against the walls of the 
barrack building. At other barracks in Eng- 
land there were large beds, in which four men 
were compelled to sleep together ; a requirement 
naturally conducing to dirt, disorder and im- 
moral practices. At the present day, in the 
French army, the beds are double, and two men 
must sleep together. This practice is unsanitary and is repulsive to the 
better class of men. In our own service two-tier double bunks were used 
until a comparatively recent period, their abolition being a great sanitary 
advantage. The British soldier at Hong-Kong provides his own bedstead, 
a custom long prevalent in the British service in India. It is remarked 
that as a result of this custom uniformity in appearance is lost, an undue 
amount of barrack space is occupied and the existence of insect parasites is 
favored. 

At present, cot-beds of two patterns are supplied in our service. One 
consists of iron trestles supporting an elastic framework of slats. This 
pattern is not comfortable, and should be entirely done away with as being 
difficult to clean, absorbent of odors and retentive of vermin. A double 
bed very similar to this bunk is used in the French army. Comparatively 
recently a single bed, made of iron throughout, with woven wire springs 



FIG. aOO. Barrack Bag. 





Fro. 201. Composite Bunk. 

and mosquito frames, has been supplied. This is well adapted to military 
uses and is far superior to similar articles supplied in other armies. It 
is comfortable, solid, substantial, sightly and readily cleaned. The pres- 
ent method of fastening the woven wire, with a wooden cleat at the end 
of the frame, is undesirable, however, since it affords a refuge to bed-bugs 
from which they are dislodged with difficulty. The bed also might with 



424 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

advantage be made two inches longer, and in damp localities the woven 
wire fabric sometimes rusts. This latter fault can be prevented by care 
and an occasional wiping with a rag slightly moistened in mineral oil. 
.Beds should be thoroughly overhauled and cleaned whenever vermin ap- 
pear to be present. The wire netting should habitually be well brushed, 
in the open air, once a fortnight. In barracks the heads of beds should be 
kept at a distance of six inches from the wall. 

A large number of folding canvas cots, as described in a previous chap- 
ter in connection with their field use, have been lately supplied to troops in 
the tropics. They are comfortable and convenient, but, although excellent 
in camp, they can by no means replace the bed just mentioned for barrack 
use. 

Hammocks have been recommended for military purposes. These are 
much less comfortable than beds, and economy of space is by no means as 




FIG. 202. New Model Bunk. 

essential in permanent habitations on shore as on ship-board. In any 
squad-room where such economy of space appears desirable it is evident 
that over-crowding exists. 

In this connection, mention may be made of bed-bugs, which, once in- 
troduced into a squad-room, multiply rapidly in the cracks and crevices 
of the walls and floor, the beds and bedding. A large number of eggs are 
laid at a time, hatching being accomplished in ten days and maturity being 
reached in about seven weeks. These insects are very long-lived, and have* 
been shown to be capable of existing without food for over a year ; hence 
old barracks, long unoccupied, should be carefully gone over before being 
used by troops. Swallows' nests and old cottonwood logs appear to harbor 
an allied species, if not the same insect. 

Bed-bugs are of no small sanitary importance from the fact that by their 
persistent attacks soldiers are deprived of much needed repose; and when 
these insects are crushed on walls or bedding they leave unseemly smears 
and give rise to unpleasant odors. Further, there is some evidence as to 
their being capable of transmitting disease from the sick to the well by 
their bites. When once introduced into a squad-room, bed-bugs can be 
kept under only by constant effort, especially in warm weather. To fur- 
nish few hiding-places for these pests, beds should be made of iron, and so 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 425 

constructed as to be readily taken down for cleansing. Floors should be 
rendered impermeable, and the cracks filled up, by one of the methods subse- 
quently described. Walls should be plastered; avoiding wainscoting as 
above all certain to afford a ready harboring-place, from which the dis- 
lodgment of these insects is difficult or impossible. In log barracks or 
those constructed of adobe, their extermination becomes a matter of the 
greatest difficulty ; their almost inevitable presence causing much discom- 
fort among the inmates. For the destruction of bed-bugs frequent shaking, 
beating and sunning in the open nir of all bedding, pillows and mattresses 
is required. Where their presence is noted in beds, the latter should at 
once be taken apart in the open air and scrubbed with hot water and soap- 
suds. The beds may then be gone over with an emulsion composed of one 
}>art of petroleum to four parts of water, applying it well with a stout 
brush. Both the bugs and their eggs are readily destroyed by this treat- 
ment. Scalding water may also be used for the same purpose. A satu- 
rated solution of bichloride of mercury is very efficacious if brought in 
contact with the insects or their eggs. Benzine and gasoline appear to de- 
stroy these vermin, in any stage of development, almost instantly. For 
cracks in walls the latter substances are best applied in the form of a 
spray, an apparatus for the production of which can be readily improvised 
by the aid of a bicycle pump or large syringe. When these substances are 
used in a squad-room, however, the latter should be closed to those not 
engaged in the work until the inflammable fumes are dissipated, which 
soon occurs. For articles which cannot be moved, pyrethrum or Persian 
powder has been much used; being insufflated into all possible lurking- 
places for these pests. This powder has no effect upon the eggs of the 
insect, and hence the relief afforded is only temporary in its nature. In 
addition, its use is not particularly cleanly. In the absence of a more de- 
structive agent, bed-bugs can be driven away from a bed by washing it 
with a mixture made by crushing the berries of the cedar tree in hot water. 
For satisfactory results, it is necessary that this liquid be applied weekly. 

Where a barrack has become generally infested, the insects are best 
destroyed by fumigation with sulphur dioxide. The entire building, how- 
ever, must be fumigated at the same time to prevent incomplete results 
from the passing of the bugs from one room into another during the opera- 
tion. Formaldehyde gas is not efficacious in the destruction of these pests. 
In general, the use of gaseous insecticides implies the complete evacuation 
of the building for twonty-four to thirty-six hours, and hence will not 
always be conveniently applicable. It can, however, be readily carried out 
during practice marches or by placing the command under canvas at any 
time, and the thorough destruction of vermin thus ensured is ample recom- 
pense for any discomfort incurred in the attainment of this object. 

With respect to bedding, our soldiers are now supplied with mattresses, 
which would be all that could be desired for comfort were they a little 
thicker. It would be an advantage from the standpoint of economy and 
cleanliness if they were made in three equal parts, any worn or soiled 
portion being thus readily removed for condemnation. Mattresses should 
be thoroughly brushed in the open air and exposed to the sun at least once 
weekly. In the prevention of vermin, especial attention should be given 
to cleanliness of the folds and about the tufts. Mattresses should never 



426 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

V 

be used without the cover provided. The latter should be washed at least 
every two weeks, and oftener in warm weather. 

Bed-sacks are nominally issued in our service, but in practice they are 
rarely used except for prisoners. For troops in semi-permanent camps 
their great transportability may at times commend them; and the same 
applies to their use in field hospitals. When mattresses are not supplied 
and bed-sacks are issued, regulations authorize the monthly issue of thirty 
pounds of straw, per man, for use as bedding. In the German, French 
and British services the soldier still sleeps on straw, the allowance per 
man, in the last army, being twenty-four pounds per quarter. In the 
French army but twenty-two pounds of straw are allowed every six 
months. Both of these allowances would seem to be quite insufficient for 
proper cleanliness, since unless the straw is frequently changed it soon 
harbors insects. Bed-sacks, where used, should be washed at least 
monthly. The straw should be removed with care to avoid raising a dust, 
and should be at once burned. Frequent sunning and shaking is of 
great importance. 

The pillows supplied in our service should be made slightly larger, 
since when matted down by use they are too small and many soldiers 




FIG. 203. Bed sack. 

habitually use rolls of clothing under them. This practice is undesirable. 
Clothing more or less soiled by hard usage should not be brought into 
contact with a clean bed, nor is the appearance of these garments improved 
by the process. Pillow-sacks are supplied for use where bed-sacks are 
employed. 

The sheets provided for our troops are excellent. Those issued in the 
British army are said to be very coarse and unsatisfactory. Sheets should 
be washed at least once weekly, and this is usually accomplished in our 
service. In the British army the sheets are required to be washed once a 
month ; in the French army they are washed monthly during the colder 
half of the year and every twenty days during the warmer months. In 
making the bed the sheets should be taken off and shaken, and when re- 
placed they should be transposed. Bed-linen cannot be kept properly 
clean in the absence of personal cleanliness or where the men sleep in the 
underclothes and socks worn during the day. The latter common prac- 
tice should be discouraged and the men urged to provide themselves with 
pajanfts ; or at least their underclothing should be changed and the gar- 
ments worn during the day spread out to air. 

Blankets are noticed elsewhere. They 'should be shaken in the open 
air and sunned as often as possible, at least once weekly. They should be 
washed when soiled, or under any circumstances as often as once a year; 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 427 

care being taken to prevent their becoming hard and shrunken as a result 
of the operation. 

Mosquito bars are now issued to troops in barracks, and these conduce 
greatly to rest and comfort. In addition, they probably do much to dimin- 
ish the frequency of malarial infection. Since, during sleep, the hand or 
foot may come in contact with the netting and thus be stung by mosqui- 
toes, the nets issued to malarious posts should have, as an additional pro- 
tection, a gathered valance sewed around the netting, about ten inches wide 
and extending six to eight inches above the bed leveL No smaller mesh 
than in the nets at present supplied is required, except where buffalo-gnats 
and midges abound. Mosquitoes, however, will find any rent or opening, 
and hence as much of the net as possible should be tucked under the mat- 
tress when the bed is made, leaving only sufficient slack to permit of 
entrance. 

Chairs and tables possess no special sanitary importance. Where suffi- 
cient chairs are not supplied, the men are perforce obliged to sit on their 
beds, a practice not conducive to the appearance of neatness in the squad- 
room. From the fact that a majority of the inmates of a squad-room will 
usually be absent, the present allowance of one chair to two men will ordi- 
narily be quite sufficient. In the German army a stool is supplied to each 
soldier. Tables are not a necessity in squad-rooms. 

Gun-racks and their contained fire-arms were long kept in squad-rooms. 
In more recent barracks, however, a small separate room has been provided 
for their reception, where they are kept in charge of a non-commissioned 
officer. This change is very much of an advantage, since additional space 
is thereby saved in the squad-rooms, and the atmosphere in the latter is 
rendered free from the odor of burned powder and oil. The greater diffi- 
culty in securing fire-arms will undoubtedly have an effect in reducing the 
frequency of homicide and self-destruction. 

Cuspidors are not supplied for the use of troops, but the necessity for 
their employment is recognized and every barrack contains them. Usually 
they are found in the form of wooden boxes filled with sawdust or sand ; 
though sometimes tin containers, cut from the lower portion of empty oil 
cans, are employed. Wooden containers are soon saturated with expecto- 
rated material, become offensive to sight and smell and cannot be properly 
cleaned. Both sand and sawdust, contaminated with sputum, may be 
dried and disseminated by accident or air currents. Where these are used, 
the determination of the frequency of cleansing is somewhat difficult for the 
inspector ; and sawdust, from the danger of ignition from cigar and cigar- 
ette stubs, is a constant menace to safety. For these reasons it would be 
advisable to issue large, galvanized -iron cuspidors, so shaped that they will 
not readily upset yet may be easily cleaned. These should be kept par- 
tially filled with some disinfectant solution, and be cleansed and scalded 
once daily. Small pieces of linoleum or rubber mat should be placed 
under cuspidors to prevent inadvertent soiling of floors, and these should 
be washed and wiped off with a disinfectant solution daily. Spitting on 
the walls or floors in barracks should be prohibited, and any infraction of 
this rale severely punished. Indiscriminate expectoration is not only 
incompatible with the cleanliness of barracks, but ejected material not 
rarely contains the micro-organisms of tuberculosis, pneumonia, diphtheria, 



428 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

or pyogenic bacteria; and when such material is dried, ground to dust 
under the feet of passers and then raised by sweeping, air currents or other 
means, it may readily be inhaled and serve to determine the occurrence of 
these diseases in others. In our army the question of properly disposing 
of the sputum has not received the attention which its importance deserves. 
It is true that the presence of cuspidors is undesirable in squad-rooms and 
that the frequency of expectoration is largely determined by habit ; but 
since no small proportion of soldiers are addicted to the use of tobacco, the 
necessity for providing for ejected saliva and sputum should not be offi- 
cially disregarded. 

Water buckets, filled with water for use in case of fire, are to be found 
in all barracks. These buckets should be emptied and refilled with fresh 
water at least three times weekly during warm weather. The water is 
soon contaminated with dust; and the accompanying bacteria, perhaps of 
pathogenic character, undergo rapid development. During the mosquito 
season the eggs of these insects are preferably deposited in such receptacles, 
and their development may be subsequently a source of much discomfort. 
In winter, care must be taken to prevent the contents of these buckets from 
being frozen. Expectoration or the throwing of articles into them should 
be severely punished. 

Floors are an important agent in the causation of infections, and thus 
merit the careful attention of the military sanitarian. In barracks the 
floor i& constantly being soiled ; with saliva containing pathogenic micro- 
organisms ; with bits of food ; with mud and dirt which men carry in on 
then* clothing and equipment and particularly on their shoes. It is there- 
fore not surprising that many investigators have found tfce dust and scrap- 
ings from barrack floors to contain the germs of disease. Tryde and Salo- 
monsen found typhoid bacilli on the floors of a barrack in Copenhagen; 
Uptadel at Augsburg; Birch-Hirschfeld at Leipzig; Chour at Jitomir. 
Emmerich found the pneumococcus on floors in wards occupied by pneu- 
monia patients. Maximowitsch, experimenting with the dust of a hospi- 
tal, states that of twenty-one guinea-pigs inoculated, nine became tubercu- 
lous ; three times he found staphylococci, twice streptococci and once the 
pneumococcus. Cornet had similar results. 

The infectious material is found chiefly in the cracks and crevices of 
the floor, but also on projecting ledges, shelves, and in corners. It is a 
comparatively small source of danger while quiescent, but when raised by 
currents of air, the feet of passers or by sweeping, it is widely dissemi- 
nated and its opportunities for producing an infection are greatly increased. 
Sweeping and dusting are the great agents in its spread, and such means of 
cleansing should be prohibited. The necessary cleansing is not only more 
safely but also more effectually done by the use of damp cloths and mops ; 
the moistened dust being rendered incapable of rising', and hence being 
actually removed instead of being largely raised from one portion of a 
squad-room to be deposited over the floors and furniture at the other end 
of the apartment, later to be taken into the system as a result of contact 
or inhalation. In some instances, floors are cleaned by the wet method ; 
but this procedure, unless properly carried out, is not without serious 
faults. Ordinarily by far too much water is employed for this purpose. 
Unless directed to the contrary, soldiers will almost invariably dash it on 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 429 

in bucketfula the floors subsequently requiring hours to dry even under 
favorable circumstances. In many instances, inspectors have found that 
holes had been bored through the floors and the dirty water flushed over 
them allowed to escape to the soil beneath, thus providing every facility 
for the development of bacterial life. In other instances, foul water, 
charged with organic matter and microbes, escapes through cracks into the 
space between floors, keeping up a constant moisture, favoring the develop- 
ment of germs and inducing moulding and decay of the boards and joists. 
Damp floors have long been recognized by sanitarians as potent factors in 
the production of disease, more directly in the production of tonsillitis and 
pharyngitis. By line officers, however, the necessity for the use of but a 
small amount of water on floors is not generally appreciated, and a general 
order on this subject might well be promulgated. Floors should be cleaned 
with mops only slightly moistened, and these be frequently wrung out in 
buckets of hot soap-suds. The method is slightly more laborious, but it 
is also much more conducive to health. In the British army the wet scrub- 
bing of floors is prohibited at periods oftener than once weekly. During 
rainy or damp weather the use of any but a very small amount of water 
on floors should not be allowed. 

In order to use water more safely on floors, and at the same time to 
prevent absorption of organic matter and micro-organisms by the latter, all 
floors in barracks should be rendered impermeable. In this respect the 
United States army is behind those of many other countries, in which the 
desirability of rendering barrack floors non-absorbent is officially recog- 
nized. In our hospitals the necessity for this quality in floors has long 
been appreciated and satisfied, and the arguments in favor of it for such 
buildings apply equally to barracks. Aside from its sanitary value, the 
proper rendering of floors impermeable at once imparts an air of neatness 
to a squad-room which can be obtained in no other way, and at the same 
time diminishes future labors with respect to cleansing. 

Many methods have been proposed to render floors impermeable. 
Mangenot advises that barrack floors be given a coating of bitumen. This 
has been tried in the French army and found to be somewhat cold during 
the winter, and in the hot season liable to soften under pressure, particu- 
larly under the legs of beds. It presents, of course, an entirely impervious 
surface which can be readily washed and disinfected, and abolishes all 
danger of infection from the planking or spaces underneath. Waxed floors, 
as sometimes suggested, are too costly for military use and take up much 
dust. The wax also has to be renewed at frequent periods. Among other 
methods, the use of linseed oil, tar and paraffine has been advised. In the 
German army, linseed oil is employed for this purpose. It is applied boil- 
ing-hot with a stiff brush, and, as far as impermeability goes, the result is 
satisfactory after several applications have been made. Subsequently the 
oil must be applied twice yearly. This method appears to have many 
disadvantages. The oil does not fill the cracks, dirt adheres to floors so 
treated and gives them a bad appearance, and cleansing is said to be diffi- 
cult. Further, floors soaked with linseed oil acquire a very disagreeable 
and persistent odor. In the French and Austrian armies it is ordered that 
the barrack floors shall be rendered impermeable by the use of coal-tar a 
board of officers in the first named service having reported upon this sub- 



430 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

stance as giving the most satisfactory results for this purpose. A recent 
order in the French service directs that, for application, the tar should be 
mixed with boiling water in the proportion of 3 kilograms of tar to 1 liter of 
water. In this proportion it is said that the tar and boiling water mix 
readily, good results are obtained and drying is rapid. The mixture must 
be constantly stirred during the application, which is best performed with 
a stiff brush. The tar may also be applied pure, or mixed with turpen- 
tine. By its repeated application the cracks are gradually filled up. The 
color imparted is brownish and unsightly, but otherwise the method gives 
very satisfactory results. The best procedure is undoubtedly that depend- 
ing on the use of paraffine, as carried out in our own military hospitals. 
In this method the floor is cleaned and dried. It is then lightly covered 
with grated paraffine, and this is melted into the floor with a large hollow 
iron containing burning charcoal. Under such heat the paraffine penetrates 
the wood to about one-fourth of an inch. The excess of paraffine is then 
scraped off and the floor given one or more coats of a solution made by 
dissolving one ounce each of wax and paraffine in one quart of turpentine. 
Subsequent applications of this solution should be made once a month. 
Wood so treated becomes not only impermeable to moisture, but its cracks 
are filled up, it is hardened and less liabls to splinter, takes on an agree- 
able appearance and is susceptible of high polish. While the best results 
are obtained with well-built floors made of good material, it is safe to 
say that there are no floors in our barracks which would not be improved, 
from a sanitary, sesthetic and economical standpoint, by the proper appli- 
cation of paraffine. 

Fleas not infrequently develop in large numbers on barrack floors dur- 
ing warm weather, and the discomfort which they cause is often consider- 
able. They have also been shown to play a part in the dissemination of 
bubonic plague. These insects are introduced into barracks by dogs, cats 
and pet animals; their eggs being deposited between the hairs of the 
host, but not attached to them, so that they are scattered by movements. 
They are especially common in the places most frequented by infested ani- 
mals. The life cycle of the flea, according to Howard, is complete in 
seventeen days ; the young developing in the dust in cracks or crevices of 
the floors. The eggs are not likely to hatch when disturbed. Prevention 
of annoyance from these insects depends upon exclusion of pet animals 
from squad-rooms during warm weather, the impermeabilization and fre- 
quent cleansing of floors, the use of pyrethrum powder and the mopping 
down of floors with strong bichloride of mercury solutions. 

Casemates. Many casemates are still employed as quarters for troops, 
in spite of the adverse report of probably every medical officer who has had to 
do with them. They are dark, damp, ill- ventilated and mouldy, and such 
qualities cannot fail to have their effect upon sick rates. In the citadel at 
Ghent, in 1845-46, it is stated by Ordroneux that those troops which 
were lodged in subterranean apartments had twice as many sick as those 
quartered above the surface of the ground. At Fort Clarence, in England, 
it was shown that men quartered in casemates were twice as liable to 
tuberculosis as those in the ordinary buildings. In 1898, in our own ser- 
vice, it was found that at Fort Adams, for the previous ten years, the 
average annual rates for rheumatism were 84 for the part of the garrison 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 431 

living in casemates and 56 for the soldiers living in a light and airy bar- 
rack building. For the previous three and one-half years the casemates 
gave 61, the barracks 30. Diarrhoea also affected the men in casemates 
more than those in barracks, in the proportion of 104 to 74. Many case- 
mates no longer occupied by troops are used as quarters for married sol- 
diers; and their children, living under such conditions, are notably wan, 
sickly, rachitic and tuberculous. 

In the original construction of casemates in our service, brick arches 
were covered with sheet lead and the intervening valleys filled with earth. 
A thin layer of concrete with brick pavement completed the roofing. The 
weight of this roofing, in course of time, has in nearly all instances forced 
the underlying hard parts through the sheet lead, thus giving rise to leaks 
which are frequently of large size. At Fort Trumbull, in 1895, examina- 




Fio. 304. Improved Plan of Construction for Casemates. 

tion of casemates unoccupied for some time disclosed water standing under 
the floors at a level of ten inches. The natural dampness of such case- 
mates predisposes to rust, mould and decay, and fires must be maintained 
by their occupants, even in the hottest weather, to dry the air. Chilled in 
winter, casemates retain a low temperature well into summer. This has 
been explained by the finding of ice in the depressions between arches, 
when uncovered for repairs, well into warm weather. Such conditions re- 
sult in/added dampness of casemates, through the condensation on the walls 
of moisture from the entering warm air. 

Casemates will probably rarely be necessary in future fortifications, ex- 
cept in such number as would afford sufficient protection during action. 
Where they are required, a space should be constructed between the inner 
wall of the casemate and the rampart, as shown in the accompanying illus- 
tration, and this should be properly supplied witli flues to secure ventilation 
and dryness. The roof of such casemates should be covered with a heavy 
coat of cement, and possess a considerable slant to better turn aside the 
water which percolates through the earth. The future use of sheet lead, 
as a roofing material, should obviously be avoided. 



432 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Casemates are totally unsuited for the shelter of troops and should never 
be employed for this purpose, unless temporarily in time of war. Modern 
barracks and quarters should be constructed outside the permanent forti- 
fications, but in their vicinity, and should preferably be made of wood to 
facilitate their future destruction if this at any time be required for military 
reasons. The quartering of troops in casemates during time of peace can- 
not be justified in any manner. 

Guard Houses. Of all the buildings at our military posts, the guard 
houses are those which call forth the greatest number of complaints as to 
the insufficiency of their accommodation, want of proper ventilation and 
generally unsanitary condition. So frequent have these criticisms been, 
of recent years, that it would almost seem as if the authorities had tacitly 
regarded unhygienic surroundings as part of the penalty to be incurred for 
military offenses apparently not taking into consideration the fact that, 
where guard houses are bad, guard duty itself, for those detailed for its per- 
formance, practically becomes an undeserved punishment. As far as the 
prisoners are concerned, also, even though confinement results from the 
voluntary commission of offenses entailing a known penalty, the Govern- 
ment possesses no moral right to jeopardize health through the withhold- 
ing of proper sanitary surroundings. The plainest fare, the hardest bed 
and most rigid confinement should in no way interfere with the strict 
observance of hygienic detail in the arrangement and management of the 
prison and care of the prisoners. Eecently this fact appears to have been 
more fully appreciated, and an earnest effort is being made to better the 
prison facilities throughout our service. Many guard houses have lately 
been remodeled and new ones built. 

In the construction of guard houses, the same general principles apply 
which govern the construction of barracks. In some respects these are 
even more important from the restricted life led by the prisoners ; the 
arduous and often uncleanly nature of their duties ; their frequent lack of 
soldierly interest with respect to the care of their persons and surround- 
ings ; and finally, the fact that all the inmates are constantly present at 
night, and no deductions can be made as is the case with barracks for 
absence on military duties. An abundance of floor and air space must be 
provided. Small cell-rooms should never be constructed, but all cells 
should be in the form of iron cages, in large well-lighted and well-aired 
rooms, with a free passage-way on all sides. Where the old system of 
small individual cells with solid walls is in use, it should not be forgotten 
that greater floor and air space must be provided for each man than would 
be required for general squad-rooms. Usually the ventilation in cells of 
this character is very defective, and measures should be taken to remodel 
guard houses having this system of confinement in operation particularly 
since the use of night-buckets is generally required of prisoners. Where it 
is contemplated that prisoners should eat their meals in the guard house, 
a separate mess-room should be provided. There should be ample latrine- 
and lavatory facilities, and these should be located in an addition having 
three sides exposed to sun and air. The great frequency with which guard 
houses become infested with vermin render the employment of imperme- 
able walls and floors a sanitary necessity. 

Quarters. The quarters of officers will usually be found of good char- 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 433 

acter and well cared for. They are ordinarily much better constructed 
than barracks, and are generally comfortable. To this, however, there 
are some exceptions. Officers' quarters, under present conditions, can 
rarely be overcrowded, and hence neither si/e nor ventilating facilities re- 
quire serious attention. The most grave defect in quarters of this charac- 
ter is the general absence of bath-rooms and water-closets a fault which 
has fortunately been remedied in most of the buildings lately erected for 
this purpose. The controlling authorities have long insisted upon the 
erection of officers' quarters in double sets under one roof. This saves 
the cost of one gable wall and makes the houses somewhat warmer, but 
to offset this, one half of these quarters never receives its full share of sun- 
light and is often cut off from prevailing winds. Single sets of quarters, 
with free exposure on all sides, are much to be desired; and in the mili- 
tary service the slight increase of land required for such improvement 
cannot be a consideration. 

The quarters occupied by married soldiers and their families, at the 
larger proportion of our posts, are usually poorly constructed, worse kept 
in repair and much over-crowded. Usually of too limited number and 
capacity to accommodate the considerable number of families requiring 
shelter, at a number of stations the complaisance of commanding officers 
has resulted in the erection of flimsy and unsanitary structures, often in con- 
siderable numbers, built by the men from such waste lumber, refuse canvas 
and old tin as could be obtained. Such quarters are offenses against not 
only the sanitary condition but the appearance of a post. To permit their 
occupancy is to do injury to the health of their inmates and to maintain 
foci from which disease, favored by their unsanitary character, may readily 
spread to troops in barracks. As long as buildings of this kind exist, they 
will usually be occupied and afford an excuse for the presence at the post 
of unauthorized camp followers, often of an undesirable character. Such 
buildings should be destroyed at all stations throughout our army, and the 
erection of any structures of similar nature forbidden in the future. At 
all posts there should be sufficient quarters of good character, provided by 
the Government, to furnish accommodations to a fixed percentage of mar- 
ried soldiers, based upon the maximum strength of the garrison. This 
percentage should apply throughout the army, so that on the changing of 
station by troops the number of families of soldiers who possess a legal 
status may be sure of proper habitations wherever they may be. In 
France, quarters are provided for four married soldiers in each regiment. 
This allowance is obviously quite insufficient for our service. 

From the constant communication between the barracks and the quar- 
ters of married soldiers, it is evident that unsanitary conditions in the lat- 
ter will not be without unfavorable influence on the health of the troops 
generally. There should, therefore, be careful hygienic supervision over 
them. It would be of great advantage if each company commander were 
required weekly to inspect the quarters and premises occupied by the 
civilians attached to his command the same as he inspects his company 
barrack and be held accountable for the proper condition of the same. 

Hospitals. All that has been said with respect to site, surroundings, 
general method of construction and care of barracks applies with even 
greater force to hospitals. In posts, the hospital should be located well 
28 



434 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

away from other buildings, but at the same time should be within reason- 
able distance of the troops whose needs it is to serve. General hospitals 
should be at central points possessing numerous lines of communication. 
They should not adjoin posts or garrisons, to prevent possible attempts at 
interference with their administration on the part of commanding officers 
of the latter. Military hospitals are conveniently grouped into those of a 
permanent and those of a more or less temporary character ; the latter in 
our service being divided into frame pavilion and tent hospitals. In many 
foreign armies, especially where the number of troops stationed in a town 
is not large, certain portions or wards of civil hospitals are devoted to 
military use ; the soldiers admitted to them being exclusively under the 
treatment of military medical officers. This practice has not been em- 
ployed in the United States service. In time of war, when the capacity 
of military hospitals is temporarily exceeded, sick soldiers are often trans- 
ferred to civil hospitals for treatment ; but under such circumstances they 
are placed entirely under the control of the medical staff of these insti- 
tutions. 

In every hospital, of whatever size, there must be a portion devoted 
to administration purposes, general and isolation wards and their accessory 
rooms, operation-room, dispensary, laboratory, mortuary, mess-hall and 
kitchen. In large hospitals there should also be a laundry. The precise 
disposition of these essential parts of a hospital depends upon the size of the 
institution and the funds available for its establishment. Where possible, 
separation of the wards and administration building should be aimed at ; 
also separation of the wards from each other and from all accessory de- 
partments. However desirable it may be, complete separation of the 
operating-room in small post hospitals is not practicable under present 
conditions. In the military service, as opposed to civil life, the shape and 
area of the hospital site will rarely require consideration in the arrange- 
ment of the institution. 

In foreign armies, hospitals have until quite recently been large, solid 
buildings of many stories ; all the portions, accessory as well as essential, 
being within the same walls and in close relation to each other. In our 
own service, the small number of troops located at any one point has 
made our hospital buildings of correspondingly small size. Considerations 
of economy, moreover, have forced the building of hospitals of the above 
undesirable type and have also led to various defects in construction no 
single building at a military post, without special legislative authority, 
being allowed to cost more than twenty thousand dollars. This require- 
ment obviously imposes serious restrictions upon internal arrangement 
and construction, and prevents the adoption of a number of needed reforms. 
In the ordinary plan of post hospital, of comparatively recent adoption, 
the cost of construction is usually at the rate of about six hundred dollars 
per bed ; but in the new hospital at Fort Leavenworth the expense per bed 
is double that amount. In the old frame wooden hospitals, as existing 
at most of the western stations, the cost of construction is aboufc three 
hundred dollars per patient. 

From the financial necessity of building post hospitals of a compact 
nature they naturally and unavoidably present very many defects, of which 
the accompanying plans of the new hospital at Fort Snelling furnish excel- 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 436 

lent illustrations. Among these faults may be mentioned the crowding 
together and close connection of the administrative portion, wards, kitchen 




436 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

and lavatories, which should all be separated from one another. The lava- 
tories especially should be outside of the main building; yet not only are 
they placed in this building but are located adjoining the mess-room, a 
single wall merely intervening between these rooms and the water-closets. 
The room intended for purposes of isolation is in no sense isolated, and 
can l)e reached only through the main portion of the hospital. It should 
be entirely walled off from the main portion, if it must be retained in the 
hospital building proper, and should be reached from the outside by a 
separate stairway. It should have a room for attendants adjoining it, and 
should also be provided with entirely separate water-closets and lavatory 
facilities. It should be ventilated separately. The office facilities in post 
hospitals of this character are also insufficient. In those built on the 
new plans, the upper floor, under the mansard roof, is usually left un- 
finished. In some instances the needs of the service have required the 
use of this floor ; but the ceiling is much too low for its satisfactory use 
for the shelter of the sick, so that the rooms gained by finishing off this 
floor are extremely hot in summer and not well ventilated. They should 
not be employed for other than storage or for dormitories for men of the 
hospital corps. Whenever the probable need of using this upper floor in 
the future is at all apparent, the wall should be built two feet higher than 
in present plans, and the whole hospital building should have a double 
roof. This need not greatly add to the cost and would conduce greatly to 
comfort. The kitchens in the new post hospitals are also too small to 
meet the needs of any great number of sick, while their location does much 
to raise the temperature of the main building unduly during hot weather. 
The storage facilities provided are insufficient, and the present arrangement 
of a mortuary in the basement is highly undesirable. In spite of these 
defects, which appear to be largely unavoidable from financial reasons, our 
later pattern post hospitals compare favorably in character, so far as they 
go, with similar institutions abroad. 

In hospital construction, the determination of the material best adapted 
for wall surfaces is one of the most difficult problems. An impervious 
surface is essential. Soap-stone finish has been much used to meet this 
need and is fairly satisfactory. Square corners should not be allowed, nor 
should any mouldings or recesses be permitted. The amount of wood-work 
around windows should be reduced to the minimum. In many civil hos- 
pitals the window sashes are made of iron. The floors should be well 
laid, solid, and free from cracks, and should be rendered impermeable with 
paraffine. In operating-rooms, lavatories and water-closets the flooring 
should be of terrazzo. Only two rows of beds should be permitted in a 
ward, and in many hospitals a window is located between each bed. No 
bed should be nearer to its neighbor than five feet ; thus giving eight feet 
of wall space per capita. Notter and Firth recommend the provision of 
one square foot of window space to each 80 cubic feet of space in the 
ward. 

As regards the internal equipment of wards in post hospitals, it? should 
be accepted that nothing should be allowed for this purpose which is ab- 
sorbent or cannot be readily disinfected. Bedsteads should be of iron 
throughout, and be coated with white enamel paint. Bedside and dressing 
tables should be of enamelled iron with smooth tops of heavy glass. The 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 437 



wooden tables still in use in some of our hospitals should be abolished, 
and the same also applies to wooden chairs. Where such are still kept in 
use they should be well varnished at least twice a year. Excellent chairs 




I 



438 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

of enamelled iron are now manufactured for ward use, and these should be 
supplied throughout our service. One chair to each three beds will usually 
be sufficient. Curtains and bed canopies, still in use in some foreign mili- 
tary hospitals, are of course totally unfit for use in buildings where the sick 
are cared for. Colored bedspreads should not be allowed ; those used should 
be of white material and be frequently washed. The wooden bed-screens 
covered with hollands, in use in some of the older hospitals, should be 
abandoned. The frames of such screens should be of enamelled iron, and 
these should be covered with ordinary sheets, maintained in a state of 
absolute cleanliness. The wooden bed-trays, still in use, should be re- 
placed by those of light enamelled metal. Floors should be wiped daily 
with damp cloths moistened in a solution of mercuric chloride. The cocoa- 
fibre matting, used until recently, has wisely been discarded. The rubber 
matting now issued in its place should be wiped down with the solution 
at the same time as the floor. It should be frequently moved from its 
place for cleaning, since dust collects beneath it. Walls should be wiped 
down with a disinfecting solution at least once a month. If the number 
of sick permits, the wards of a hospital should be used alternately, chang- 
ing every month. The ward so vacated, with its contents, should be 
disinfected with formaldehyde and then aired for several days after the 
removal of the patients. The disinfection of operating-rooms with for- 
maldehyde, after each operation on a case presenting septic conditions, is 
indicated. All patients should, if possible, be bathed before being ad- 
mitted to a ward. Their clothing should be taken from them and disin- 
fected before being stored away, and their underclothing should be washed 
at once. Pajamas or night-shirts, according to the case, should be sup- 
plied rrorn the hospital equipment. All bed-linen should be changed 
twice weekly, and oftener if soiled. Blankets, bed-spreads and mattresses 
should be frequently sunned. 

In time of war, the ordinary hospital accommodations of an army in 
the field are quite insufficient to meet the demands upon them ; and many 
of the hospitals in garrisons, scattered throughout the country, will not be 
available for use. Many sick and wounded will be treated in movable field 
hospitals, but a large proportion of the more serious cases, not immediately 
fatal, will ultimately reach the more permanent establishments required 
in base or general hospitals. All modern sanitarians agree that where 
large numbers of the sick must be treated, the use of independent pavilion 
wards is far preferable. In civil life, large massive hospital buildings are 
giving way to small detached sections, and in the military service the ad- 
vantages of the latter arrangement are even greater. Such buildings are 
cheap and readily put up. Regarding the pavilion as the unit of hospital 
construction, any enlargement of accommodation is readily accomplished 
by the addition of such number of pavilions as may be required. If these 
become old or infected they may be readily burned without great expense ; 
and in certain civil hospitals in this country it is contemplated that the 
wooden pavilion isolation wards shall be destroyed by fire every ten years. 
Pavilions are open on all sides to air and sunlight ; and being comparative- 
ly small, the danger of any extensive epidemic occurring in a hospital is 
averted. They are particularly adapted to the shelter of convalescents and 
wounded, since there are no stairs to interfere with entrance and egress. 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 439 



When properly kid out, a hospital composed of such wards is easy of ad- 
ministration. All the main buildings should be reached by covered pas- 
sages, open at all sides, for the protection of the hospital staff and 
convalescents during hot or stormy weather. 

The general arrangement of pavilion hospitals varies greatly. During 
the Civil War a number of different ground-plans were devised ; but, in 
many of these, sightliness and convenience of administration apparently 




Fio. 



, 207. -United States Army General Hospital. Fort Monroe. Virginia. 1, Wards; 2, administration 
building ; 3. officers' quarters and mess ; 4, guard house : 6, commanding officer's quarters ; tt, operat- 
ing-room; 7. female nurses' quarters; 8, laundry: 9. pump-house ; 111, chapel; II. dead-bouse; 1-. 
store-bouse; 13, stables. The unnumbered buildings In the enclosed space are mess-balls. 

received more consideration than did sanitary matters. At present there 
are three arrangements which are commonly used in our own and foreign 
armies. These consist in locating the wards on the outer side of a covered 
way, shaped like an inverted letter V; in establishing them on two sides 
of a central square ; and in arranging them in two parallel lines on each 
side of a central covered passage-way. 

The general hospital at Fort Monroe is built in the form of an inverted 
V ; similar to the plans of the Lincoln and McClellan hospitals as used 
during the Civil War, and the hospitals used by the French at Metz in 



440 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

1870-71. The administration portion of the hospital is located between 
the two converging covered ways ; the wards standing obliquely away from 
the latter in such a manner as to receive the full benefit of wind and sun 




FIG. 206. Plan of United States Army General Hospital at Savannah, Georgia. 1, Wards ; 2. nurses 1 quarters ; 
3, commanding officer's quarters; 4, administration building ; 5, store-house ; 6, officers' quarters ; 7, 
officers' mess ; 8, chapel ; 9, guard-house ; 10, dMMMxMM : 1 1. hospital corps dormitory; li, mess-hall, 
hospital corps ; 13. mess-hall and kitchen for patlenta ; 14, dispensary and store-house; 15, operating- 
room and ward ; 18, library ; 17, officers' club ; 18, bakery ; 19, engine-house ; 20, ambulance stable ; 21, 
fuel shed ; 22, shops. 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AXD HOSPITALS. 441 

without interference with each other. The wards are all properly oriented, 
in ill is arrangement, and there is no crowding. There are seventeen pavil- 
ion wards, which are expected together to accommodate one thousand pa- 
tients. The buildings are of rough construction and were originally roofed 
witli tarred paper. Later they were shingled. The chief disadvantages 
of this hospital are difficulty of administration and a too great size of the 
individual wards. 

The general hospital at Savannah, also having a capacity of one thou- 
sand beds, is well planned and arranged for purposes of administration ; 
the wards being set at right angles from, and close to, a long central corri- 
dor. The long axes of the pavilions, however, run north and south, which 
is quite undesirable in hospital buildings in such a southern latitude. The 
buildings are also too much crowded together, and seriously interfere with 
each other in respect to air currents. The space covered by the hospital 
pavilions allows but 360 square feet per bed, and the wards are located but 
35 feet apart. This gives much too small a ground area. Great import- 
ance is attached by all sanitarians to an 'abundance of free air space about 
hospital buildings; and, as illustrating this point, Stevenson and Murphy 
give the following figures with reference to the size of the hospital site, as 
compared with the number of patients, in a number of the best modern 
hospitals. 

ns-uvAw Approximate area oJ 'site, 

< 1 1 K M \ \ v per foe^ j n -,,, Ui ,, v feet. 

Fricdriohshain 1,718 

Tempelhof (military) 1,308 

Moabit 1, 144 

University, Halle 1.575 

University, Heidelberg 1,070 

FRANCE. 

Bourges (military) 1,600 

St. Eloi 1,615 

St. Denis 1,685 

BELGIUM. 
Antwerp 1,126 

UNITED STATES. 
Johns Hopkins 1,679 

Mouat recommends a zone of aeration about each hospital building at least 
double its height, and modern practice tends to go even beyond this limit. 
In the military service, where the cost of land is generally not a consider- 
ation, the slightly increased facility of administration gained by bringing 
buildings closely together by no means counterbalances the sanitary dis- 
advantages of overcrowding. 

The general hospital at San Francisco, with accommodations for 600 
patients, occupies a space 662 by 594 feet and provides a hospital site 
of 660 square feet to each patient. There are ten general wards. Each 
ward has an inside length of 153 feet; and, including lavatory and admin- 
istration rooms, of 180 feet. The width of each ward proper is 25 feet; 
the space between them 35 feet. These buildings are located in parallel 
lines on each side of a central square, in which are the operating-room and 
mess-halls. This square is partially closed in at one end by the adminis- 



442 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

tration building. It is bordered by a covered passage connecting all the 
wards, and also bisecting the central square. The plan of this hospital is 
very similar to that of the Lariboisiere, in Paris. It is very convenient, 
well planned and easily administered, and probably represents the best 
type of arrangement for pavilion hospitals. 

Pavilion wards, in civil communities, are built in a number of forms. 
For the military service that of a simple parallelogram is employed ; the hos- 
pital complete costing at the rate of about one hundred dollars per patient. 
The interior arrangement of these wards varies 'slightly in our service, but 
the plan as used for the pavilions in the general hospital at Savannah may 




Fia. 209. Plan of the United States Army General Hospital at the Presidio, San Francisco, California. 

be considered as fairly representative of all. This pavilion ward is a frame 
wooden structure, with double doors at each end and at the centre of each 
side. It is weather-boarded outside and wainscoted inside. The portion 
occupied by patients is 92 feet long and 23 feet broad, contains 40 beds 
and allows 53 square feet per man. The height is 10 feet, and the 
cubic air space per patient is 556 cubic feet. In addition to the ward, 
within the same walls there are nurses and ward-masters' rooms, lavatories 
and bath-rooms, water-closets and store-rooms. These pavilions present a 
number of serious disadvantages from a sanitary standpoint. The floor 
space per patient should be more than twice as much as is actually pro- 
vided. In the British military hospitals, 100 feet of superficies is allowed to 
each patient, and Notter and Firth regard 120 square feet per bed as the 
minimum for hospitals. Some of this space may be gained by widening the 
present pavilion building by two or three feet. The cubic air space provided 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 443 








per bed is also much too low ; being 44 cubic feet less than the amount the 
healthy British soldier is entitled to receive in barracks, and but 46 per cent, 
of what is officially allowed (1,200 cubic feet) to each patient in hospital in 
the same service. Notter and Firth place 
the amount of air space which should be 
provided in general hospitals at 2,000 cubic 
feet per bed, or nearly four times the 
amount furnished by our pavilion wards. 
That serious results have not followed this 
deficiency in air space is due to the fact 
that these hospitals have never been tilled to 
their fullest capacity, and are also located in 
climates in which the windows and doors 
may be kept open a large portion of the 
time. The height of these pavilions should 
be increased to 12 feet. The beds are also 
too crowded, having an allowance of but 5 
feet 7 inches of running wall-space, where 
all authorities demand 7 to 8 feet per bed 
as a minimum. The windows should be 
made larger, and be carjied up higher toward 
the ceiling. Itooms for nurses and ward- 
masters attached to a large general ward 
are quite unnecessary. Nurses should not 
be allowed to sleep in close proximity to the 
sick, and when attendants who have been on 
duty during the day are relieved they should 
leave the pavilion entirely. The wards 
themselves, with accommodations for forty 
patients, are too large. Not more than 
twenty-four sick should be brought together 
in any one ward ; and in the newer civil hos- 
pitals, the wards are usually intended to hold 
about sixteen sick. It is distinctly an ele- 
ment of danger to the individual patient if 
he is one of a large number of diseased per- 
sons brought together within the same four 
walls. The water-closets, bath-room and la- 
vatory should be placed in an annex at the 
rear of the ward, separated by a roofed and 
latticed lobby, so that odors cannot pene- 
trate into the ward. There should be the 
most complete severance of atmospheric 
communication between the annex and the 
main building; the latter thus containing 
merely the main ward and two small store- 
rooms at the end toward the lavatory. 
There should be no plumbing in the ward 
building. Wainscoting should not be used, 
as readily becoming infected. If the build- 



1=1 



[=) 
(=] 




444 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

iiigs are too light in structure to allow the use of plaster, some one of the 
many composition boards now on the market should be used in large panels 
for the inside finish, and thoroughly gone over with shellac. An open 
fire-place at each end of the ward, to replace two of the heating stoves 
at present used, would add much to cheerfulness and greatly improve ven- 
tilation. The latter is a matter which deserves the greatest consideration, 
and which is by no means sufficiently provided for in these pavilion 
wards. The floor space required depends largely upon the means of ven- 
tilation adopted ; and, with us, both are at present inadequate. For hos- 
pitals, nothing is more certain than that an abundance of fresh air must 
be provided. During the Civil War it was found that wounded treated in 
tents or loosely-built huts, through which the air freely passed, had little 
septic disease; while in permanent hospitals, or houses temporarily con- 
verted for the purpose, the so-called hospital diseases were of frequent occur- 
rence. Since a hospital is a building which is perpetually producing within 
itself the elements of danger to its own inmates, it should be fully under- 
stood that the roughest shelter which admits of a through current of air is 
better than a permanent structure without adequate means of ventilation. 
Smith and Young, in emphasizing the fact that cubic space is of little 
value unless it is accompanied by ample means of ventilation, give an 
instance of the Franco-Prussian War in which it happened that, at about 
the same time, a church and a slaughter-house in Paris were turned into 
wards for wounded soldiers. Among the wounded in the church, gangrene 
broke out and the mortality was very heavy ; in the slaughter-house no 
septic disease appeared, and the men made good recoveries. This happened 
in spite of the fact that the cubic space per man in the church was greater 
than in the slaughter-house ; but the latter was a mere shed with sides of 
louvred boards, and the men were practically in the open air, while in the 
church the wall was solid and the openings were small and few. 

The necessity for an almost unlimited supply of air governs hospital 
construction. 

Occupancy of New Buildings. To fix the time when barracks or 
other permanent buildings of recent construction may be safely occupied, 
the climate, exposure, nature of material employed and manner of con- 
struction must be considered, since all have relation to the question of 
dampness. During the erection of a building the materials of construction 
absorb much water. Bricks, which readily take up water to the extent of 
ten to twenty per cent, by weight, part with moisture equally readily. 
The same, however, is not true with respect to plaster and mortar, which 
do not readily give up the moisture they may have absorbed. According 
to Flligge, mortar used in building construction contains about 14.8 per 
cent, of water by weight, and 26 per cent, by volume. Plaster absorbs 
50.9 per cent, of its volume of water; and the same author states that in 
ordinary masonry walls, water is present in the proportion of 13 to 23 per 
cent, by volume. Pettenkofer calculated that in the masonry of a typical 
house built of 100,000 bricks, there were 10,000 gallons of water which 
must be removed before the building would become healthful. Since air 
at a high temperature takes up a much greater proportion of moisture, he 
showed that the necessary drying could be accomplished in about one- 
twentieth of the time if the building were well ventilated and heated. 



POSTS, BARRACKS, QUARTERS AND HOSPITALS. 445 

From these facts it can readily be understood why a barrack occcupied 
immediately after completion, and without waiting for the walls properly to 
dry, should be cold, damp and dangerous to health. For this reason, tires 
should be maintained in as many rooms as possible, and drying air currents 
thus established throughout the building, as soon as plastering is com- 
pleted. 

It is a difficult matter to determine the minimum time in which a 
newly -erected building becomes properly habitable. If the walls are still 
damp they are cold to the touch, and on percussion a dull note is given off 
quite different from the clear resonance given by a dry wall. Undoubtedly 
the best method of determining the dampness in new walls, and hence the 
propriety of occupation, consists in detaching fragments of plaster, which 
should be weighed, dried at 110 C. and weighed anew. Laveran states 
that ordinary wall plaster should not contain more than 20 to 22 per cent, 
of moisture. As long as this proportion is exceeded the building should 
not be occupied. 



CHAPTER X. 

VENTILATION. 

THE term ventilation appears to be not infrequently confused, in the 
minds of line officers, with aeration. In simple aeration of a squad-room 
the air is changed but once or at intervals, whereas in true ventilation the 
air is constantly renewed by the passing out of a portion of the enclosed 
air and the entrance of a fresh supply to take its place. Eegarded, there- 
fore, as the continuous and more or less systematic renewal of air in a 
room or other enclosed space, the term ventilation may be strictly defined 
as the removal or dilution, by a supply of pure air, of the pulmonary ex- 
halations of soldiers, the effluvia which proceed from their persons and 
clothing, and the products of combustion from lights and fires. Involving, 
as it does, the introduction and diffusion of pure external air in continu- 
ous currents, and the constant removal of a corresponding volume of air 
more or less fouled by gases, vapors, moisture and particulate matter, or 
which is warmed above the degree consistent with comfort and health, the 
subject of ventilation is clearly one of some complexity, and for the mili- 
tary service is closely connected with the production and distribution of 
heat. It should be understood that the fresh air introduced in ventilation 
is not necessarily cold air ; in fact the practical success of the system will, 
in many cases, depend upon the entering air being warmed. 

The theory of ventilation depends on a few well-known physical laws, 
simple in themselves but often somewhat difficult of practical application 
so that unsatisfactory results even with apparently good methods are not 
rarely obtained by the inexperienced. While these physical laws are capa- 
ble of general application, the local conditions met with are so variable 
that the ventilation of each barrack building and squad-room must properly 
be considered as a separate problem. Undoubtedly the most exact method 
of ventilation depends upon the propulsion, by mechanical means, of a 
definite amount of air during a given period ; but the expense of installing 
and operating the necessary apparatus, and more especially the constant 
attention which it must receive, create serious objections to the use of this 
method in the military service. Reliance is therefore to be had upon the 
ventilation brought about by the diffusion of gases, the inequality in the 
weights of cool external and warm internal air, and by the movements of 
external air currents. While perfect ventilation would ensure that none 
inhaled air which had previously been respired by the man himself or by 
another, it is obvious that such conditions are not attainable in barracks; 
and that all which can be expected is the maintenance of the contained 
air in a state of relative purity, and within the limits fixed by sanitarians 
as denoting an amount of vitiation in excess of which the systems of those 
exposed to its influences may be expected to suffer. 



. VENTILATION. 447 

Influence of Ventilation upon Health. In the military service, 
the injury inflicted upon troops by requiring them to breathe air contami- 
nated with respiratory impurities and deficient in oxygen is usually not per- 
ceptible until after a considerable period of time, and is then often at- 
tributed to other causes. Though operating in this insidious manner, the 
evil results of deficient ventilation are none the less positive as is well 
shown by comparison of statistics for bodies of men living in ventilated 
and unventilated habitations, and by the diminution in the rates for sick- 
ness and death, in foreign armies as well as our own, which in the past 
has followed improvement in the ventilation of barracks. 

When moderately vitiated air is breathed continuously for considerable 
periods, even if it does not necessarily by itself originate disease, it cer- 
tainly lowers the powers of vital resistance and thus predisposes to sick- 
ness. Under such circumstances the individual becomes pale and partially 
loses his appetite, and after a time declines in muscular strength and 
mental spirits. The oxygenation and nutrition of the blood appear to be 
interfered with, and a condition of anaemia is often noticeable. Where the 
air is rendered extremely impure by respiration, it is commonly rapidly 
fatal to those required to breathe it. Instances of this promptly fatal effect 
of highly vitiated air are seen in the well-known cases of the " Black Hole 
of Calcutta," when 123 out of 146 Europeans, held as prisoners by the 
Mutineers, died in the space of about twelve hours ; and of the close prison 
in which 260 out of 300 Austrian prisoners of war, confined after the 
battle of Solferino, died in a short time. The poisonous agencies which 
probably bring about this sequence of events appear to be a deficiency of 
oxygen coupled with an excess of carbon dioxide, though the symptoms are 
not those of pure asphyxia. If the persons survive, a febrile condition is 
usually left behind which lasts three or four days and is often followed 
by boils and other evidences of affected nutrition. 

The former great prevalence of pulmonary tuberculosis, in nearly all 
European armies, was considered by the commission appointed to investi- 
gate the sanitary condition of the British army to be chiefly dependent 
upon the lack of proper ventilation of barracks. Notter and Firth state 
that while a great amount of phthisis has occurred at all the stations of 
the British army, even those with the best climates, "there has been of 
late years a most decided decline of phthisical cases in these stations, while 
the only circumstance which has notably changed in the same time has 
been the condition of the air." Not only may phthisis be considered to 
have one of its chief predisposing causes in the breathing of an atmosphere 
deficient in oxygen and highly contaminated by respiration, but other 
throat and lung diseases as bronchitis, pneumonia and tonsillitis appear 
also to be much more common under such circumstances. As an instance, 
the medical officer at Fort Douglas, in 1898, reported an immediate de- 
crease in the number of cases of tonsillitis among the troops at that post, 
on installing suitable arrangements in the previously improperly ventilated 
barracks. There is no doubt, also, but that the constant breathing of a 
confined and vitiated air, in addition to the production of an impaired 
state of health which renders invasion by any infectious disease especially 
liable to occur, particularly favors the spread of the exanthematous fevers. 
So well are the above facts recognized that the best authorities now insist 



448 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

that, if a choice be required to be made between the two, warmth must 
l>e sacrificed to some extent in order to obtain a proper amount of fresh 
air. The influence of pure and impure air on health and mortality is 
even better shown in the case of horses than among men, since in the 
first instance the problem is much simplified by the absolute similarity, 
in different periods or places, of the conditions of food, water, exercise 
and treatment. It is therefore of interest to note that in the French army 
the mortality among cavalry horses, in times past, was enormous* Ros- 
signol stating that prior to 1836 the mortality of the public animals in 
that service varied from 180 to 197 per thousand annually. The enlarge- 
ment of the stables, with the provision of an increased amount of fresh air, 
has reduced the loss at the present day to 24.2 per thousand. 

The necessity for free ventilation is greater in hospitals than in bar- 
racks. The air of a sick ward, unless properly renewed, is well known to 
be most unfavorable to health ; and by deficient ventilation of hospitals the 
severity of many diseases is increased and convalescence is greatly retarded. 
This appears to be true of all diseases, but especially so of the febrile af- 
fections. Hospital wards, also, are occupied all the time; deficiency in 
respect to fresh air operating continuously, and not, as is the case 
with healthy soldiers in barracks, for but a portion of the twenty -four 
hours. 

The benign influence upon health of proper ventilation and an abun- 
dance of fresh air appears to be manifested in three ways. First by dilut- 
ing the noxious products of respiration beyond those limits of concentra- 
tion within which they exert a known unfavorable influence upon the 
human organism. Also the supplying of the necessary oxygen without its 
admixture with impurity. Second the fact that moving bodies of air, 
usually warmed, are great drying agents, and that barracks will not be damp 
when properly ventilated. Third the fact that currents of fresh air are 
of great importance in assisting the destruction of bacterial life by the solar 
rays. Recent experiments have shown that bacilli exposed to free air cur- 
rents and the solar rays were killed in two hours, while those exposed to 
sunlight but which were shielded from air currents survived much longer. 

Ventilation in the United States Service. The conditions in re- 
spect to ventilation, in the greater number of barracks in our service, must 
be regarded as unsatisfactory. In the older established garrisons, many of 
the habitations for the men were constructed without proper arrangements 
for the renewal of air; reliance being apparently had, in many instances, 
solely upon natural means of ventilation. The necessity for special 
arrangements and devices to assist the movement of air appears to have 
been strangely overlooked; and it is true that even as late as 1890 build- 
ings for the shelter of soldiers were erected without means of artificially 
renewing the air within them. In one instance, in that year, the defect 
was so noticeable as to call for special inspection and report the latter 
concluding that the attainment of even fair ventilation of the building as 
constructed would require considerable additional expenditure. From 
Fort Robinson, in 1895, it was reported that, save in one instance, not a 
single one of the barracks at that post had any provision for ventilation 
except windows and doors ; and that these, from the coldness of the cli- 
mate, must necessarily be kept closed a considerable portion of the year. 




VENTILATION. 449 

In a number of the older barracks, in the construction of which the 
question of ventilation was not wholly disregarded, or in which an effort 
was subsequently made to install ventilating arrangements, the matter was 
often not properly approached. Particularly was the fact often lost sight 
of that air will not pass out of a room unless arrangements are provided 
for its admission in proportionate volume, and that it will not enter unless 
a corresponding proportion of f.he contained air be removed. Hence, in 
our service, even at the present time, sanitary reports show that in many 
cases outlets have alone been provided the room, with its doors and 
windows closed, thus having the character of the ventilation which might 
be found in an uncorked bottle while in other cases sufficient provision 
has been made for admitting fresh air, but no means of es- 
cape arranged for that which is vitiated. It is true that 
where such a single opening is provided, double currents, 
moving inward and outward, are established; but under such 
circumstances friction is great unless the opening be very 
large, and the currents are always feeble and may so oppose 
each other as even to prevent all movement. Special aper- 
tures for the entrance and egress of air should therefore be 
provided ; and it may here be remarked that the practical 
necessity for this is shown by a very simple experiment 
(Fig. 211). If a lighted candle be placed in an open wide- 
mouth bottle the flame is soon extinguished. If the air be 
renewed, the candle again lighted and the mouth of the jar Flo 
be '-luted by a stopper pierced with two holes, each contain- 
ing a glass tube, but of unequal length, the flame continues to burn 
brightly. The partial closure of one of these tubes, B, causes the flame to 
diminish in size ; and on the complete closure of the tube it dies out. 

In some of our barracks, intended outlets have been cut through into 
lofts and garrets, while these spaces have not been provided with ventilating 
shafts leading into the open air. Under such conditions it is obvious that 
there is no ventilation. Even in some of our barracks of latest construc- 
tion, provided with ventilating flues, properly located and of sufficient size, 
these have been made, by some strange oversight, to discharge directly 
into the loft under the roof. It is true that outlets for this space were 
also provided but the undeslrability of converting the highest space in 
an inhabited building into a mixing reservoir for foul air and the dust 
which it carries, often of an infectious nature, should certainly be apparent 
to all ; particularly in view of the fact that the danger is always present of 
having this foul air and some of the dust carried back into the squad- 
rooms by reverse currents. It should be an invariable rule that each 
squad-room should be ventilated separately, yet this has not always been 
done. In many instances also the openings provided have been entirely 
insufficient in size for the work which they were expected to perform ; and 
further, the improper location of such ventilating openings as were pro- 
vided has not rarely been made in the past. That defects of the above 
character are so commonly seen furnishes a strong argument for the sub- 
mission of all working plans for barracks, before any buildings are erected 
on their lines, to the authorities of the Medical Department. The mistake 
is too frequently made, in our service, of considering that persons with- 
29 



460 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY.- HYGIENE. 

out any special knowledge of sanitation are properly fitted to decide on 
matters which, like that of ventilation, are purely sanitary. 

Vitiation of Air. In considering the nature and the amount of the 
impurities added to air by respiration, it is of advantage to contrast the 
percentage composition of ordinary air with that which has been expired, 
in respect to their chief constituents. These are as follows : 

Ordinary air. Expired air. 

Oxygen ....................................... 20.96 16.40 

Nitrogen ...................................... 79.00 79.19 

Carbon dioxide ............................... 0.04 4.41 

From this it will be seen that the expired air contains over one hun- 
dred times more carbon dioxide, nearly five per cent, less oxygen, and a 
small amount of nitrogen more than the atmospheric air. Hence during 
respiration more oxygen is taken into the body from the air than carbon 
dioxide is given off; so that the volume of the expired air is from one- 
fortieth to one-fiftieth smaller than the volume of the air inspired, both 
being calculated as dry, at the same temperature and pressure. This dim- 
inution of the volume of the expired ah* is, however, far more than com- 
pensated for by the warming which the inspired air undergoes in the re- 
spiratory passages, so that eventually the volume of the expired air is really 
one-ninth greater than the air inspired. The relation of the oxygen ab- 
sorbed to the carbon dioxide given off is as 4.57 : 4.38. . This is expressed 
by the so-called respiratory quotient: 



An average adult gives out at each respiration 22 cubic inches of air, 
and, assuming that he breathes eighteen times a minute, the total quantity 
of air which passes out of the lungs in the twenty-four hours is thus 570,240 
cubic inches, or 330 cubic feet. If it be further assumed that the expired air 
contains 4.4 per cent, of carbon dioxide, the average adult at rest evolves 
14.52 cubic feet of this gas in the twenty-four hours, or 0.6 of a cubic foot 
per hour. This amount of carbon dioxide will be increased by body activity 
and varies also with the weight of the individual ; it may, in the case of a 
man doing hard work, reach 37 cubic feet in the twenty-four hours, im- 
plying an hourly elimination of carbon dioxide of 1.6 cubic feet. For sol- 
diers living under the usual conditions found in squad-rooms, the carbon 
dioxide given off from the lungs is generally accepted as about 0.72 cubic 
feet per hour. Pettenkofer, whose experiments are perhaps the most trust- 
worthy, ascertained that a man twenty-eight years of age, weighing 132 
pounds, evolved 0.56 of a cubic foot -of carbon dioxide per hour at night, 
during repose, and 0.78 in the daytime under very moderate exertion; 
during hard work the same man evolved 1.52 cubic feet per hour. These 
amounts give the following : 

In repose ........ 0.00424 cubic foot of CO evolved per pound of body -weight. 

In gentle exertion. 0.00591 u 
In hard work .... 0.01152 

These figures, though based upon an. individual of considerably less 
weight than the average soldier, are nearly in the ratio of 2, 3 and 6 and 



VENTILATION. 



461 



this may serve as a guide to the proportions of fresh air required under 
different conditions. 

Since ordinary unrespired air con tains an average of 0.4 parts of carbon 
dioxide per 1,000, it is obvious that any excess beyond this amount implies 
vitiation. In a closed and occupied space a certain amount of impurity 
must always be present in the air, and it thus becomes important to de- 
termine the permissible limits of such impurity. This has been fixed by 
de Chaumont and others at 0.6 parts of carbon dioxide per 1,000, or 0.2 
parts in excess of that already present in the atmosphere, and this stand- 
ard is now accepted by all sanitarians. It is based upon the observed 
fact that when the respiratory carbon dioxide exceeds this proportion, the 
air in the room begins to smell close and foetid. Having established a 
standard as to the respirator)' impurity which may be regarded as permis- 
sible, it becomes easy to calculate the amount of fresh air needed properly to 
dilute the air expired by the soldier during a given time, so that the car- 
bon dioxide contained in the resulting mixture shall not exceed the per- 
missible limits. 

As compared with the standard of respiratory impurity given above, 
the air of barracks usually shows a high degree of vitiation less so in the 
newer and better ventilated buildings. At Fort Robinson, in 1895, the 
barracks being unprovided with ventilation facilities, the amount of carbon 
dioxide found in eight squad-rooms ranged from 1.334 to the very high 
proportion of 2.600 parts per 1,000. In England, a large number of an- 
alyses of the air in barracks was made by de Chaumont, the amount of 
carbon dioxide in the external air being simultaneously determined. The 
cubic air space allowed per man was 600 cubic feet. Typical results 
obtained by him were as follows : 







CO, IN 


ROOM. 


M.-.m 
respiratory 




c<>, In 
external air. 


Largest 
amount fuund. 


Mean 
amount fuund. 


Impurity in CO, 
in exrem of 
that in external 
air. 


Oosport new barracks 


0.480 


1.846 


0.645 


0.215 


Anglesey barracks 


0.398 


1.971 


1.404 


1.011 




0.440 


1.408 


0.976 


0.586 




0.470 


1.175 


0.718 


0.248 


Tower of London 


0.420 


1.781 


1 :\:\* 


0.898 




0.425 


1.874 


1.209 . 


0.784 


Fort Brockhurst (casemate) 
Aldcrshot Military Prison, cells.. 
Gosport Military ^Prison, cells . . 


0.422 
0.409 
0.555 


1.027 
8.484 
2844 


0.888 
1.651 
1.885 


0.416 
1.242 
0.780 



Published analyses of air of prison cells show, in all cases, a very high 
degree of respiratory impurity, and this is probably one of the chief de- 
pressing influences of long cell confinement. Wilson gives some import- 
ant information on this point. In cells of 614 cubic feet capacity, always 
occupied, he found the CO, to amount to 0.720 per 1,000; the prisoners 
were healthy and had a good color. In cells of 210 cubic feet capacity, 
occupied only at night by prisoners employed outside during the day, he 
found 1.044 per 1,000 of CO, and the occupants were all pale and anaemic. 
While exact figures for our own service are lacking on this point, medical 



452 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



officers will frequently be impressed with the pallor of prisoners housed in 
poorly ventilated guard houses, especially in the case of such prisoners as 
are detailed for considerable periods as room-orderlies. In the limita- 
tion of evil results upon health through such constant confinement in bad 
air, it is clear that the inside work of policing should be performed by the 
prisoners in rotation, and no one man should be allowed continually to do 
such work, as is not infrequently the case. Outside labor in the open 
air is, in practice, a privilege and a benefit to prisoners. 

The amount of respiratory impurity in badly-ventilated barracks, as 
might be expected, increases with length of occupancy. Hence the period 
of greatest vitiation in squad-rooms will be found shortly before reveille. 
Leo found the following amounts of carbon dioxide, in a barrack at Alber- 
stadt, at different hours of the night : 



Parts of CO a 

Houre - per 1000. 

8 to 10 0.86 

10 to 12.. . 1.57 



Hours. 



Parts of CO. 
per 1000. 

12 to 2 2.14 

2 to 4.. . 2.48 



In spite of its greater specific gravity, there is, in practice, no accumula- 
tion of carbon dioxide near the floor of an occupied room, since expired 
air is warmer and hence lighter than the surrounding atmosphere. Le- 
blanc, Coulier, Pettenkofer and others have shown that carbonic acid is 
always present in greatest amount at the top of an inhabited space. In a 
theatre, at the end of a performance, Leblanc found 1.5 parts of CO, in air 
samples taken in the orchestra, and 3.0 parts per 1,000 in air taken in 
the highest gallery. Laterally, carbon dioxide is equally diffused through 
the air of a room. It is very rapidly got rid of by opening windows, and 
in this respect differs from organic matter and probably from watery 
vapor ; neither appearing to diffuse rapidly or equably through a room. 

With respect to the direct influence of an excess of carbon dioxide 
upon the organism, the gas is said by Stevenson and Murphy to produce fatal 
results when the amount reaches from 50 to 100 parts per 1,000 volumes; 
while at an amount much below this, usually placed at 15 to 20 parts per 
1,000, it produces severe headache. Some persons can inhale without in- 
jury, for a brief period, considerable quantities of pure diluted carbon 
dioxide ; and animals can be kept for a long time in an atmosphere highly 
charged with it, provided the amount of oxygen be also increased. With 
the air of respiration, headache and vertigo are usually produced when the 
amount of carbon dioxide is not more than 1.5 to 3 volumes per 1,000; 
but to this result the undue heat of the room, under such circumstances, 
probably contributes. The presence of a very large amount of carbon 
dioxide in the air may lessen its elimination from the lungs and thus re- 
tain the gas in the blood and in time this may produce serious impair- 
ment of nutrition. 

The same principles which govern the calculation of fresh air, needed 
to dilute and remove respiratory impurities as indicated by the amount of 
carbon dioxide present, apply also to the case of air vitiated by gas- 
lights, lamps and candles. Where the products of their combustion are 
allowed to pass directly into squad-rooms, as is the case in our service, the 
impurities added will be considerable, and fresh air should be supplied to 



VENTILATION. 453 

dilute and remove them. For their proj)er dilution, however, the amount 
of fresh air supplied, in relation to the carbon dioxide evolved, need not be 
as great in their case as for- breath impurities, since organic respiratory 
emanations of deleterious character must be considered in connection with 
the latter. It has been calculated that for every cubic foot of coal-gas 
burned, 500 cubic feet of fresh air must be introduced hourly to dilute the 
products of combustion properly ; and this is not a high estimate when 
it is considered that a cubic foot of good coal-gas produces one-half a cubic 
foot of carbon dioxide, together with a certain amount of sulphur dioxide 
and other substances. The flat flame gas-burners used in our barracks are 
calculated to consume 6 cubic feet of gas hourly ; and in an evening of 
four hours one such burner will thus generate 12 cubic feet of carbon 
dioxide. Assuming that a supply of 1,000 cubic feet of fresh air is re- 
quired for every cubic foot of carbon dioxide produced in this manner per 
hour, it is therefore necessary to supply 12,000 cubic feet of air, during 
the evening, to each regulation gas-burner or about 3,000 cubic feet per 
hour. This amount is about equal to that required for respirator)' purposes 
by a soldier in barracks during the same period. Since for a squad-room 
containing twenty-four men probably six such gas-burners would be neces- 
sary, it follows that provision should be made, when gas is burned under such 
conditions, for the admission of about one-fourth more fresh air than would 
be required during daylight. These facts abundantly demonstrate the 
great importance of directly removing the products of combustion by a 
special channel a method clearly preferable to the present practice of 
allowing them to contaminate the .air, even if ventilating arrangements 
capable of providing a greater supply of air, while lights are used, were 
secured for squad-rooms. Speaking generally, the Welsbach gas-burner 
uses up only half as much air, the illuminating power being the same, as 
the ordinary flat six-foot burner. According to Notter and Firth, one pound 
of mineral oil requires 138 cubic feet of air for complete combustion, and 
properly to dilute the products of its combustion about 8,000 cubic feet of 
air are necessary. Since incandescent electric lights contribute no impuri- 
ties to the atmosphere their use entails no extra provision of fresh air. 
This quality is a strong argument for the employment of such a means of 
lighting. 

Where barracks are warmed by hot air, hot water or steam, it is obvi- 
ous that the products of combustion from fuel used in heating will not 
.assist in the vitiation of the air of squad-rooms, nor, with the proper dis- 
tribution of fresh air to such central heating plants, need the quantity of 
oxygen required in the combustion of fuel be a matter requiring considera- 
tion from the standpoint of ventilation. But where squad-rooms are 
directly heated by stoves, as is the case in many of our barracks, the 
subject at once assumes a practical importance. According to Notter and 
Firth, for the complete combustion of one pound of coal at least 160 cubic 
feet of air are required by theory ; but in actual practice from hah* to twice 
as much air must be supplied, making the average amount required per 
pound of coal to be from 240 to 300 cubic. feet. Since so many varieties 
and sizes of stoves are in use in our service, no general figures as to the 
amount of fresh air to be supplied to fires in squad-rooms can be given, but 
knowing the average consumption of coal in any given instance the amount 



464 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

of fresh air properly to be supplied for purposes of combustion can readily 
be calculated. 

During the burning of coal about one per cent, is given off into the 
air as soot and tarry products, with large quantities of carbon dioxide and 
carbon monoxide. Where stoves are in sound condition, and are proper- 
ally cared for, these impurities should not escape into the room, but should 
pass out through the chimney into the external atmosphere. In practice, 
however, these theoretical conditions will frequently not be obtained in 
barracks. Improperly jointed stove-pipes or stoves which are cracked and 
broken are not rarely seen, and through the fissures and crevices of such 
defective appliances the impurities of combustion may escape into the room 
in considerable quantities. In some forms of stove used in our service, 
spaces in the doors are closed with sheets of mica. These are often 
knocked out by careless handling, and their prompt replacement does not 
seem to be regarded as important by most company officers or quarter- 
masters. Deficiencies of this sort may contribute largely to the atmos- 
pheric impurities in the room. In the care of fires, also, the average 
room-orderly uses little discretion. In very cold weather especially the 
fires will be maintained at their maximum, and a red-hot stove is consid- 
ered rather as desirable than otherwise by most soldiers. It has long 
been recognized, however, that where this overheated condition is present 
much carbon monoxide may pass through the red-hot iron into the air of 
the room, this gas being far more dangerous than carbon dioxide. Open 
fires and grates will rarely be used in our barracks, though they are 
much employed in foreign services. Fires of this sort are particularly 
subject to down-drafts, generally due to the amount of air required by the 
fire being less than that which can, during the same period, pass through 
the normal inlets in a closed room, whereby a certain amount of fresh cold 
air endeavors to force an entrance down the chimney. This results in the 
carrying of much smoke and other products of combustion back into the 
room. The remedy of course consists in increasing the size of the inlet, 
which may temporarily be accomplished by partially opening a door or 
window. Serious faults of this character could never occur in properly 
ventilated barracks. 

From the above it is obvious that while destroying considerable air for 
the sake of its oxygen, and requiring a special supply to support combus- 
tion, certain arrangements for heating may give off, in the air of rooms, 
when badly constructed or managed, considerable amounts of impurities. 
The quantity of these impurities is of course very variable. 

While the chief need of fresh air is usually emphasized with special 
reference to the removal or dilution of organic or inorganic impurities, 
fresh air also plays an important part in the removal of excessive moisture. 
Watery vapor is given off into the air not only in respiration but also 
largely by artificial lights; and not a little of the .discomfort attending 
vitiated atmospheres is due to the large amount of then* contained moisture. 
Expired air is practically of the same temperature as the body, fcnd is 
saturated with water vapor. Consequently any volume of air much vitiated 
by respiration soon becomes heated air and more or less saturated with 
moisture. But air which is loaded with moisture transmits, in each unit 
of time, much more heat than air which is dry. Hence, when air at a 



VENTILATION. 466 

high temi*rature is saturated with moisture it communicates heat to the 
body, producing an oppressive sensation; when the temperature of the 
' saturated air is lower than the temperature of the body the transfer of heat 
is the other way, producing a sensation of cold. A low temjKjrature with 
a dry atmosphere is therefore more comfortable than a higher temperature 
when the air is loaded with moisture, for no other reason than that it 
favors the prompt and regular removal of body -heat by combined conduc- 
tion and evaporation. Both de Chaumout and Billings have laid special 
stress on the importance of humidity in connection with ventilation. The 
former states that an increase in humidity of one per cent, has as much 
influence on the condition of an occupied space, when judged of by the 
sense of smell, as a rise of 4.18 F. The amount of water given oft' to 
the air by respiration of -course varies with the temperature and condition 
as to humidity of the inspired air, as well as with the si/e of, and work 
being done by, each individual; but on an average of twenty-four hours, 
the amount may be taken as being 10 ounces, or 300 grams, for each adult 
to which must be added some 20 ounces more of moisture given off by 
the skin. If it be assumed that the average temperature of occupied rooms 
is 60 F., this means that enough moisture is hourly given off by the 
human body, in repose, to saturate 90 cubic feet of air. It is this tendency 
to become saturated with moisture from the lungs and skin which makes 
the air of crowded rooms so uncomfortable. Carnelley's experiments show 
that for every part of carbon dioxide found in the air, 2.7 volumes or 1.1 
part by weight of moisture have been given off by each person inhabiting 
the room. The removal of excessive moisture by a supply of fresh air is 
thus important. 

As is fully appreciated by all officers, poorly ventilated barracks have 
a distinctive odor of their own, especially strong during the sleeping hours 
before reveille or on damp days. This odor, markedly perceptible on \\ass- 
ing from the outer air into a crowded, illy ventilated squad-room, is made 
up in part of volatile products of decomposition contained in the expired 
air of soldiers having decayed teeth, foul mouths or certain disorders of 
the digestive apparatus, and in part to volatile fatty acids produced from 
the excretions of the skin, and from clothing soiled with such excretions. 
To this is usually added the odor of stale tobacco smoke, and also the 
effluvia given off by the organic matter which is always present on walls 
and floors. In our newer barracks, from the better means of renewing the 
air provided of late years, these close, foul odors are much less marked, 
though they are still very apparent. 

The direct and indirect effects of such odors upon the comfort and 
health of soldiers are probably more considerable than are generally ac- 
cepted. In a fresh, pure air, the inhalations are instinctively full; if the 
air be vitiated and foul-smelling the organism is warned through the 
olfactories and as little air as possible is respired, the oxygenatiou of the 
blood being thus interfered with. It is fair to presume that this aversion 
to the bad odors of vitiated air was intended by nature to serve as a safe- 
guard against exposure to such influences. 

In hospitals, from the nature of the conditions often necessarily obtain- 
ing in them, the production of odors is more rapid and extensive than in 
barracks. So much organic substance is thrown off in certain diseases 



456 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

that scarcely any ventilation is sufficient to remove the odor. In some 
hospitals, de Chaumont found that there was still a close smell when 5,000 
cubic feet of fresh air, and even more, were supplied to each man hourly. 
In general, and without attempting to demand too much, it may fairly be 
assumed that the quantity of fresh air to be supplied to every room used 
for the shelter of soldiers should be sufficient to remove all sensible im- 
purities. 

The organic matters contained in expired air are small in quantity. 
A certain portion is apparently suspended, and is made up of small par- 
ticles of epithelium and fatty matters derived from the skin and mouth, 
while another part consists of organic vapor thrown off from the respiratory 
tract. These organic impurities give rise to the foetid smell already men- 
tioned as being noticed in badly ventilated barracks; and which often 
hangs about squad -rooms for so long a time, even after the rooms are well 
aired, as to show that the odoriferous substances are oxidized slowly. 
Most hygroscopic substances, and particularly blankets and woolen uni- 
form clothing, absorb and retain these odors with great readiness and 
tenacity. 

The organic matters contained in the expired air have been long looked 
1 upon as being in the nature of a volatile poison, but recent experiments 
tend to oppose this view. The conclusions of Haldane and Smith are to 
the effect that the immediate dangers from breathing air highly vitiated 
by respiration arise from the excess of carbonic acid and deficiency of 
oxygen, and not from any special poison; that any hyperpnoea which 
ensues is due to excess of carbon dioxide and not in the corresponding de- 
ficiency of oxygen, the hyperpnoea usually appearing when the carbon 
dioxide is present to the extent of from three to four per cent. ; that the 
frontal headache so commonly produced by vitiated air is due to the excess 
of carbon dioxide ; that hyperpnoea from insufficiency of oxygen begins to 
be appreciable when the oxygen in the air breathed has fallen to a pro- 
portion which varies in different individuals. To this must be added the 
discomfort produced by excessive heat and moisture. With these conclu- 
sions most sanitarians are now agreed. 

Drafts, and the Rate of Ventilating Air Currents. To be sat- 
isfactory, the renewal of air in barracks should be insensible to the 
occupants. Cold drafts will not be tolerated by soldiers, and the man 
who sleeps under a window or near a ventilator will not permit it to be 
open to his own discomfort, so that those at a distance may have fresher 
air. Where the ventilating inlets admit cold drafts, the men, unless 
carefully watched, will invariably plug them up, often with old clothing, 
gunny-sacks and similar uncleanly articles ; so that in cold weather the 
condition of the intake apparatus as regards perviousness is thus often 
an excellent guide to the practical efficiency of its operation. Where ven- 
tilating inlets are found to be thus stopped up, the sanitary officer need not 
in all instances at once demand that they be re-opened in spite of the 
fact that this action is obviously detrimental to the comfort and perhaps 
the health of the men and then consider his duty performed. Under 
such circumstances, existing arrangements are clearly not satisfactorily 
accomplishing the purpose for which they were intended, and their practi- 
cal disadvantages of operation should rather be recognized and efforts 



VENTILATION. 467 

made for their improvement. Often this can be accomplished by screens 
or other simple means, but in some instances the faults are so aggravated 
that some of the existing intakes may have to be wholly or partially 
closed during cold weather and other arrangements made for the proper 
renewal of air. Any arrangement for admitting fresh air which is 
obviously defective should not be permitted to remain indefinitely, as is 
too often the case in our service, but should be remodeled at the first op- 
portunity . In many instances, however, inlets which work satisfactorily 
under nearly all conditions are temporarily closed by the men during brief 
periods of windy or severe weather. Under such circumstances the prompt 
re-opening of the intakes after the emergency is passed, and their main- 
tenance in a pervious condition, is required. 

Large rooms are proportionately easier to ventilate without drafts 
than are smaller ones, a practical argument for supplying an adequate 
cubic air space to the soldier. Particularly if natural processes are em- 
ployed, the difficulties of adequately ventilating a small space are consider- 
able. These are caused not so much by the rate of the greater part of the 
air in a room as by the velocity of the air currents at their point of en- 
trance. If a space of 500 cubic feet be supplied with 3,000 cubic feet of 
air hourly, through an inlet having an area of 12 square inches, the move- 
ment of the entering air would necessarily be at the rate of 10 feet per 
second, or nearly 10 miles an hour; if the inlet have a sectional area of 
24 square inches the rate would be 5 feet per second. In either case, in 
such a small space, the air could not properly be distributed before reach- 
ing the person and a draft would be felt. If instead of 500 cubic feet 
of space 1,000 be given, the problem becomes much easier, for the small 
entering air current, in mixing with the air of the room, would be more 
easily broken up, and the soldier being able to get further from the open- 
ing the movement of air is less apparent. 

As to the point at which the sensation of draft is noticed, not only 
the rapidity of the air current but its temperature and the amount of at- 
mospheric moisture must be considered. Air currents having a tempera- 
ture of 55 to 60 F. and a rate of 1 feet per second are not perceived. 
Those having a rate of 2 to 2 feet per second are perceptible to some, a 
rate of 3 feet by most persons and that of 3 by all. Any greater rapidity 
gives the sensation of draft. If the temperature of the air be about 70 
F. a rather greater velocity is not perceived, while if it be still higher, 80 
to 90 F., the movement again becomes more perceptible; and this is also 
the case if the temperature be below 40 F. A cold current of air is most 
noticeable if its humidity be excessive. From what has been said, it is 
obvious, in the prevention of drafts, that much of the air admitted to 
barracks during cold weather should be warmed. This necessity is recog- 
nized in the British service, in which it is officially prescribed that one- 
half the air so admitted shall be previously heated. In our own service, 
in some of the older barracks, this important point has been overlooked, 
though in those of late construction it has been provided for. The dif- 
ferent methods of warming the entering air are discussed later. 

In the prevention of drafts it is also important that entering air 
shall be broken up into small currents on being admitted to the squad- 
room, and for this same reason the inlets should be numerous and small. 



458 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Drafts rarely occur from outlets, unless their action be reversed by tem- 
porary conditions. In some instances, however, where a large ventilating 
flue runs down to the floor and the outlet opening is near its base, a strong 
and steady movement of air, uncomfortable to the feet, is established 
toward it during cold weather. This is often a cause of strong drafts 
on persons in front of open fireplaces. The remedy for this condition 
is obviously found in the multiplication of outlets at widely separated 
points. 

Beds should never be placed in front of windows ; since even if closed 
the leakage of cold air around the sashes, and the chilling of the layers 
of air in contact with the window-panes, may result in descending 
drafts upon the heads of the sleepers. In general, ventilating intakes 
should be at points not readily accessible to soldiers, and their operation 
and control should been trusted to men specially charged with their ser- 
vice. In this way the function of the inlets will not be surreptitiously 
interfered with, while the existence of any unpleasant drafts will early 
become known to the proper authorities. 

From what has been said it is apparent that the rapidity of entering 
air currents cannot, with comfort, be in excess of 3 feet per second unless 
the air has been previously warmed ; though Putzeys believes that no cal- 
culations for the admission of air should be based on a rate greater than 
2 to 3 feet per second. This point is all too frequently overlooked in 
our barracks. The ventilating shafts provided for the renewal of air are 
often incompetent, under existing conditions, to perform the service ex- 
pected of them; which service, if actually accomplished, would imply a 
rate of movement of air ordinarily quite impossible of attainment by natu- 
ral means, and which would be quite incompatible with comfort or health 
if it could be secured. Experience has demonstrated that if the amount 
of cubic space allowed in squad-rooms be so small as to require a consider- 
able number of renewals per hour to dilute the products of respiration down 
to permissible limits of impurity, the inmates of such rooms are subjected 
to discomfort from drafts. Even a renewal five times per hour would 
be too much. In the British army it has been found that, in barracks 
with 600 cubic feet per head, the rooms are cold and drafty when any- 
thing approaching to 3,000 cubic feet of fresh air per head per hour is 
passing through ; that is, a change of five times per hour for each 600 
cubic feet of air space. A change equal to three or three and one-half 
times per hour is generally all that can be borne under the usual conditions 
of warming in temperate climates, or that is practically attainable with 
natural ventilation ; and if this be correct, assuming the hourly excretion 
of carbon dioxide by the soldier to be 0.72 cubic feet, 1,000 cubic feet 
should theoretically be the minimum allowance for the initial air space. 
In general, the frequency with which air may be changed depends to some 
extent upon the temperature and degree of moisture in it, whether it is 
warmed before being introduced, upon the appliances for introducing it and 
breaking it up, and upon the absolute size of the space to be ventilated. 

In connection with the rapidity of air currents, it is important to re- 
member that the influence of friction is very marked in this respect. The 
amount of loss produced by friction is often overlooked in estimating the 
size and character of inlets and outlets, and such neglect is apt to lead to 



VENTILATION. 

unsatisfactory results and disap]>uintmeut. The chief causes of loss are 
the following: , 

1. Length of tube or shaft. Here with equal sectional areas the loss 
is directly as the length; so that with a shaft of 30 feet as the standard, 
a shaft of 40 feet long would have an increased friction of one-third. 

2. Size of opening. For similar sections the friction is inversely as 
the diameter. Thus for two openings, respectively one and two feet in 
diameter, the friction at the smaller opening will be twice that of the 
larger. In this way dividing up an opening into a number of smaller 
ones, the aggregate of which is equal to the original opening, produces a 
loss by friction in the direct ratio of the diameters. An opening of one 
square foot divided into four openings, each of ^ square foot, loses in the 
ratio of 1 : , being respectively the diameters of the openings. When the 
shapes of the openings are not similar, the ratio may be stated as that of 
the square roots of the areas. Thus one square foot divided into nine 
openings, each equal to one-ninth of a square foot, will lose in the ratio 
of 1 : ^, the square roots of the respective areas. 

3. Shape of opening. A circular opening may be taken as the stand- 
ard that being the figure which includes the greatest area within the 
smallest periphery. The loss sustained from the use of any other shape 
will be proportionate tp its difference from a circle enclosing a similar area. 
Thus of two openings, each of one square foot area, the one being a circle 
and the other a square, the length of the periphery of the latter will be 
four square feet, of the former 3 ; therefore the velocity of the current 
through the square opening will be -^ or -J of that through the circular 
opening. This is a point which is completely ignored in the construction 
of our barracks; the ventilating shafts used, in their transverse section, 
being invariably rectangular. 

4. Angles in the tube or shaft. This is a most serious cause of loss. 
The exact formula for this has not been distinctly determined, but it may 
be accepted, as in accordance with experiment, that every right angle 
diminishes the current by one -half, so that two right angles in a tube 
would reduce it to one-fourth ; and so on. Yet it is no uncommon thing 
in our service to find tubes and shafts bent at numerous angles to save ex- 
pense and appearance. If change of direction is necessary, the shaft should 
be gently curved rather than abruptly bent. The loss of head with a 
curved or U-shaped bend is only one-half as great as with two rectangular 
bends. 

5. The presence of dust or dirt of any kind seriously interferes with 
the movement of air. This may of course be obviated with a moderate 
amount of care and attention, but in practice it rarely is. The gratings 
on ventilating shafts are often fastened in so securely as to render their 
removal for purposes of cleanliness extremely difficult of accomplishment 
without permanent injury to the building. It is advisable generally 
slightly to widen the openings of shafts, especially if they are of small 
diameter, as the current tends to be contracted and obstructed at that point, 
and loss of head results. At every change of direction the same thing 
takes place. Hence the desirability of rounding-ofT angles as much as 
possible, where they cannot be altogether avoided. It is best to have the 
sections of shafts circular or elliptical instead of rectangular ; for not only 



460 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

is there less loss by friction originally but there is less chance of lodgment 
of dust and debris, and the shafts can be more easily and thoroughly 
cleaned. 

It must not be overlooked that under certain circumstances the specific 
gravity of vitiated air, as compared with pure air, may be often as import- 
ant as friction in hindering ventilation. 

Superficial and Cubic Space. Squad-rooms should never have a 
height of less than 10 feet, and a height of 11 to 12 feet is preferable. 
Above 12 feet the additional height should not betaken into consideration 
with reference to the ventilation of barracks, and a height greater than 
this need not be provided for barracks in temperate climates. Under no 
circumstances should very high ceilings be allowed at the expense of floor 
space, under the impression that proper cubic space is thus provided. 
Excessive height increases cost of construction and heating, and renders 
the maintenance of cleanliness difficult. It also to a certain extent inter- 
feres with ventilation by means of windows ; since the great size and weight 
of the sashes required under such circumstances would forbid carrying the 
windows close to the ceiling, and an accumulation of stagnant air occurs 
above their level unless special means for its removal are provided. 

Floor space and cubic space are both important factors in the ventila- 
tion of barracks. In general, the amount of cubic space required depends 
directly upon the rapidity with which the air of a squad-room can be 
changed without discomfort. While an abundance of cubic space is al- 
ways desirable, the idea is not rarely entertained by line officers that 
cubic space may take the place of change of air, so that if larger cubic 
space be available a certain amount of change of air may be dispensed 
with, or less fresh air required. This view is obviously quite erroneous, 
since even the largest space can provide sufficient air for a limited time 
only, after which the necessary amount of fresh air is required to be sup- 
plied hourly, whether the space be large or small. In our service, even 
the latest barracks allow but 56 to 60 square feet of space, per capita, in 
squad-rooms, and in nearly all old barracks the superficies available per 
man is far less than this amount which is about the floor space provided 
in the British service. Morache regards 100 square feet of space as the 
proper amount to be supplied to each healthy soldier, but this area appears 
to be slightly larger than necessary and would therefore unduly increase 
the cost of sheltering troops. A provision of 85 square feet would, 
however, be desirable, and this amount it is quite within the power of the 
authorities to supply. This, in squad-rooms having an ordinary width of 
24 feet, would allow a trifle more than 7 feet of running wall space to 
each soldier, and would provide an open space of about 4 feet between 
beds. Certainly such an allowance to the soldier cannot be regarded as 
extravagant. 

As to the minimum amount of air space which should be provided for 
each man in barracks, there can be no doubt that in most armies an en- 
tirely insufficient allowance is made in this respect. In Austria, 540 cubic 
feet are allowed per capita; in Germany, 540 for cavalry and artillery and 
450 for infantry. Laveran states that in the Belgian army the allowance 
varies from 350 to 420 cubic feet for infantry, with 490 for cavalry ; but 
some barracks recently constructed in that service provide for 600 cubic 



VENTILATION. 461 

feet of space per man. In the British army on the home stations, the 
amount to which each man is entitled was long since fixed at 600 cubic 
feet. In our own army it was prescribed in 1870 that north of the 36th 
parallel there should be a per capita allowance of 600 cubic feet, and south 
of that parallel of 770 cubic feet. In a report on the condition of our 
barracks and hospitals made in the year mentioned, it was shown that out 
of a total of one hundred and forty-one garrisons only thirty -nine were 
provided with as much as 600 cubic feet of space per man, while in seven 
stations the cubic space available was as low as 250 cubic feet. At the 
present time, chiefly as the result of the enlargement of the company 
organization, a number of our older barracks originally intended for oc- 
cupancy by the smaller organizations of former times afford by no means 
sufficient air space. The barracks now being constructed, however, pro- 
vide for an allowance of 660 to 720 cubic feet of space in squad-rooms for 
each expected occupant. This amount, if it can always be secured, is a 
great improvement over the allowances for foreign armies ; but it must be 
remembered that the vast standing forces maintained by other nations 
render it necessary to economize in every possible manner with respect to 
their maintenance, and such countries as Italy, France, Germany or even 
England are financially unable fully to provide such accommodations as 
are well recognized to- be to the best advantage of the soldier. In this 
country, with a small army and a large and wealthy population, no such 
economic considerations should prevail; and it should not be assumed, 
because our later barracks are already more spacious than those of rela- 
tively impoverished nations, that no further improvement is desirable in 
this respect. From what has been said establishing the floor space at 
about 85 feet per man, and the height of the room at 11$ to 12 feet, it fol- 
lows that the amount of cubic air space which should be available is, in 
round numbers, 1,000 cubic feet. This amount closely agrees with theo- 
retical standards. It has been stated that the excretion of carbon dioxide 
by the soldier under the conditions obtaining in barracks is generally re- 
garded as about 0.72 cubic foot per hour, and it is elsewhere shown that 
the amount of fresh air necessary to dilute this down to the permissible 
limit of respiratory impurity is 3,600 cubic feet per hour. Experience 
proves that air in barracks cannot be changed, without special and expen- 
sive mechanical means of securing ventilation, much more frequently than 
three to three and one-half times hourly without drafts being produced. 
With an allowance of 1,000 cubic feet of air space, to each soldier, all these 
conditions are properly satisfied with almost mathematical exactness. 

For the proper dilution of emanations from the sick in hospital, a much 
greater amount of fresh air should be supplied than is necessary for soldiers 
in barracks ; and the cubic space per capita must be proportionately en- 
larged to ensure its distribution without drafts, to the influence of which 
the sick are especially susceptible. In the German army, 1,300 cubic 
feet are required to be provided for each patient in hospital. Regulations 
for the British army allow 1,200; those for the French army 1,400. In 
our own service no standard is established as to the amount of cubic 
space to be provided under the same circumstances. It is generally ac- 
cepted by military sanitarians that, in hospitals, a minimum of 4,000 
cubic feet of fresh air per patient should be supplied hourly. If the change 



462 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

of air is to be three times per hour and the best rate of the entering air 
currents be calculated at three feet per second, the cubic space should be 
at least 1,300 cubic feet. Considering, however, the immense benefit to 
patients of pure air, and the abundant practical experience of medical offi- 
cers on this point, it is very desirable not to fix the floor and cubic space 
of hospital wards at the bare minimum of what may suffice ; and hence 
Notter and Firth justly advise that a cubic space of 1,500 to 2,000 cubic 
feet per capita should be provided for hospital wards. The minimum floor 
space, in hospitals as in barracks, should be not less than one-twelfth of 
the cubic space, which gives a minimum allowance of about 110 square 
feet for each patient in hospital this being increased where possible to 
150-160 square feet. Where means of illumination other than electric 
incandescent lights are employed, extra air space should be allowed for each 
burner in barracks and hospitals, unless special means for the removal of 
impurities resulting from combustion are provided. In foreign armies a 
larger cubic space is usually provided for the cavalryman than for the foot 
soldier, for the better dissipation of stable odors. 

In single habitations, such as officers' quarters, well furnished with 
chimneys and sheltering but few occupants under the same roof, the ques- 
tion of cubic air space is of little importance, since the cubic space avail- 
able is usually in considerable excess of the minimum provided for barracks. 

In determining the amount of cubic space in a room the method is 
simple if the room be square or oblong and has a flat ceiling. In such 
cases the three dimensions of length, breadth and height are multiplied 
together. If the room be of irregular form, other measures must be em- 
ployed. If rectilinear, such places can be divided up into triangles and 
then measured ; or if bounded by curved lines they can be divided up into 
segments of circles. It is more convenient to make the measurements in 
meters, or in feet and decimals of a foot, than in feet and inches. For 
the calculation of superficial and cubic space the following formulae may 
be employed : 

RULES FOR SUPERFICIAL MEASUREMENT. 

Area of circle = 3.1416 X square of radius. 

Area of circle = 0.0796 x square of circumference. 

Circumference of circle = 3. 1416 X diameter. 

Diameter of circle = 0.3183 X circumference. 

Area of ellipse = 3.1416 X i long diameter X i short diameter. 

Area of square or rectangle = multiply together two sides perpendicular to 

each other. 

Area of triangle = base X i height. 

Area of any rectilineal figure = the sum of the areas of the component tri- 
angles. 

Area of segment of circle = i X chord X hefght. 

RULES FOR CUBICAL MEASUREMENT. 

Cube or solid rectangle = length X breadth x height. 

Solid triangle = section area of triangle X height. 

Cylinder = area of base X height. 

Cone or pyramid = area of base X i height. 

Dome = area of base X t height. 

Sphere diameter cubed X .5286. 

To the cubic space of the room, all recesses, such as doorways and 
window recesses, must be added in. All projections, as chimneys, air- 



VENTILATION. 463 

shafts or fixed lockers, should be deducted, and the cubic space occupied by 
the bodies of soldiers, generally estimated as about 3 cubic feet per man, 
must also be subtracted. The amount of air space taken up by furniture, 
lockers and bedding should, in addition, be taken into consideration, since 
the free space thus lost for purposes of ventilation is not small. In gen- 
eral, 4 cubic feet may be deducted for each bed with its accompanying 
bedding, and 4.6 cubic feet for each movable locker of regulation pattern. 
The total deduction to be made in the case of each soldier in a squad-room 
thus amounts to about 12 cubic feet. 

It has long been -recognized that insufficiency of floor and air space 
in barracks is a potent factor in the occurrence of disease among soldiers, 
especially with respect to affections of a transmissible nature. Sore throat, 
headache and malaise are particularly induced by overcrowding and the 
deficient ventilation thus implied. In the investigation into the sanitary 
condition of the British army, in 1856, it was found that those regiments 
provided with the least spacious barracks invariably presented the highest 
death rates ; and since that time an abundance of evidence to the same 
effect has been accumulated. As an instance in our own service it may be 
mentioned that, in 1896, it was shown by Owen, at Ford Bayard, that for 
every case of disease chiefly of tonsillitis and febricula which occurred 
among organizations having a per capita allowance of 730 cubic feet of air, 
space, there occurred 2.5 cases amocg organizations which had but 420 
cubic feet per man. 

But in spite of the fact that the dangers of overcrowding are fairly well 
understood by line officers, it is none the less true that serious overcrowd- 
ing has occurred within the past few years at a number of posts. From 
the several recruiting depots such conditions have been frequently reported. 
At Fort Yates, in 1895, one barrack was stated to have been so crowded 
that, to get to bed, certain men were obliged to clamber over the foot rails 
of their bunks or crawl over beds belonging to other men. From Fort 
Sill, during the same year, an almost identical condition of affairs was re- 
ported. In 1892, at St. Francis Barracks, nearly within the tropics, it 
was reported that the bunks in the squad-rooms were almost touching 
each other and only 300 cubic feet of air space were available per man. 
Guard houses especially, during the past ten years, have been reported as 
overcrowded; and in 1894, at Fort Wingate, in a hot climate, the air 
space available for each inmate was stated to have been but 217 cubic feet. 
Many other instances of overcrowding, in lesser degree, have been reported 
during the past few years; these being apparently due not so much to 
ignorance as to disregard of the first principles of hygiene on the part of 
the executive authorities. While much may be excused during time of 
war, when military necessity may at times temporarily overrule certain 
sanitary requirements, there is absolutely no justification for the over- 
crowding of barracks in time of peace. If the proper capacity of the 
buildings at a post is exceeded, it becomes the plain duty of the sanitary 
officer to recommend that a sufficient number of men be sent to other sta- 
tions, so as to allow those left behind the floor and air space to which they 
are justly entitled. This attitude should be vigorously persisted in despite 
the opposition which may be excited on the part of line officers, who, from 
personal motives, are unwilling to see their commands reduced in numbers. 



464 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

It is certainly unfortunate that our regulations do not explicitly pro- 
vide for a minimum floor and air space for the soldier in barracks. In 
the British army, at home stations, each soldier is officially entitled to a 
minimum of 600 cubic feet of air space, and the door of each squad-room 
is plainly marked with the floor space and cubic air space of the room, 
together with the maximum number of occupants authorized under regula- 
tions. It would be of great sanitary advantage if a similar custom were 
established in our own service, and thus do away with the too frequent 
practice of crowding one hundred men into quarters perhaps originally in- 
tended to shelter but seventy-five. Even where the floor and air space is 
theoretically ample, it should not be forgotten that their value may be 
largely destroyed by defective facilities for ventilation. 

Amount of Fresh Air Required. The quantity of air required for 
the ventilation of any confined space will naturally depend upon the nature 
and amount of the air impurities requiring dilution and removal; these 
impurities, for all practical purposes, being created by respiration and 
artificial lights. Of these various impurities, no matter whether from 
respiration or illumination, the carbon dioxide is accepted as the chief 
measure of air vitiation ; not because the carbon dioxide exists in such 
amount as at once seriously to influence health, but because it appears 
to be present in a constant ratio with other offensive and dangerous im- 
purities. As its quantity is very readily determined with sufficient ac- 
curacy for all practical purposes, it is therefore taken as the amount of the 
other impurities in general, and it becomes important to establish a limit 
of permissible impurity in this respect. This is fixed by Roth and Lex, 
de Chaumont and others, as already stated, at 0.6 parts per 1,000, which 
includes 0.4 of initial atmospheric carbon dioxide; they also placing the 
hourly elimination of carbon dioxide for men of the military class, under 
ordinary conditions, at 0.72 of a cubic foot. The amount of fresh air 
necessary to exactly dilute this quantity of carbon dioxide down to per- 
missible limits is 3,600 feet per hour, or one cubic foot per second. 
Where only 600 cubic feet of air space is provided per man, it is obvious 
that the air should be changed six times per hour to ensure a proper de- 
gree of purity. In practice, however, as already stated, it has been shown 
that for temperate climates the air of a room cannot usually be changed 
by common means of ventilation much more than half as frequently with- 
out the creation of unpleasant drafts. Hence, for barracks which pro- 
vide a per capita air space of much less than the standard of 1,000 cubic 
feet already proposed, it is plain that the supply of the desirable amount 
of fresh air will rarely be acconlplished, except with special mechanical 
apparatus and at considerable expense the latter being usually greater 
than the military establishment can afford to bear. This latter objection 
was fully recognized by the British commission on barracks, which finally 
decided, on this account alone, to recommend that as a minimum each 
soldier in squad-room, having 600 cubic feet of space per capita, should be 
provided with 1,200 cubic feet of fresh ah- per hour; though the commis- 
sion at the same time distinctly stated that this amount was quite insuffi- 
cient for the dissipation of odors at all times and seasons. The economical 
objections to supplying an amount of air known to be desirable are also 
recognized in the Massachusetts school laws, which require a minimum 



VENTILATION. 



465 



hourly delivery of 1,800 cubic feet of fresh air per capita, this being less 
than the amount theoretically required even for children. In our own 
service it is only attempted to renew the air twice hourly, which with a 
cubic space of 720 cubic feet in our new barracks means 1,440 cubic feet 
of fresh air per hour, or less than half what should be supplied. By start- 
ing with a proper cubic space, however, these practical difficulties in the 
way of an economical supply of sufficient fresh air are avoided ; and there 
is no reason why, in squad-rooms of sufficient capacity for the number of 
men they contain, the air should be vitiated beyond the limits of permis- 
sible impurity even with simple means of ventilation. It is true that the 
practical limit of purity which can be reached in the air of bftrracks, even 
if the cubic space be small, depends upon the sum which the government 
will expend for its attainment; but, as already stated, cost cannot be 
wholly disregarded, and it is probably ultimately cheaper, and certainly 
more satisfactory from the military if not the sanitary standpoint, to pro- 
vide sufficient air space at the outset and accomplish the necessary change 
of air by other than mechanical contrivances. 

Since for soldiers in barracks 0.72 cubic foot of carbon dioxide may 
be regarded as the average hourly output per capita, and the amount of 
fresh air required per hour to dilute this carbon dioxide to permissible 
limits is 3,600 cubic feet, the following table shows the amount of fresh 
air necessary, under different conditions of cubic space, to dilute the car- 
bon dioxide of respiration to the standard of total permissible impurity of 
0.6 per 1,000 volumes of air, inclusive of the amount 0.4 originally 
present in the air. 



Amount of cubic 
space for one soldier, 
in cubic feet. 


Ratio per 1000 of CO t 
from respiration at the end 
of one hour. If there 
has been no chancre of air. 


Amount of air necessary 
to dilute to respiratory 
standard of 0.6 
during the flrst hour. 


Amount necessary to 
dilute to tin- Riven 
standard ever)' hour 
after the first. 


100 


7.20 


H..-MM) 


8,oo 


200 


8.60 


8,400 


8,600 


300 


2.40 


8,300 


8,600 


400 


1.80 


8.200 


3.600 


600 


1.44 


8,100 


3,600 


600 


1.20 


8,000 


8,600 


700 


1.02 


2,900 


3,600 


800 


.90 


2,800 


8.600 


900 


.80 


8,700 


8,600 


1,000 


.72 


2.600 


8,600 



This table of course refers to apartments which, like squad-rooms, are 
occupied a number of hours consecutively. It is readily apparent that 
while the air of even the largest rooms ultimately becomes unfit for respira- 
tion unless it be properly renewed by ventilation, the larger the air space 
the less is the necessity for the frequent renewal of air and hence the less 
the chances of draft. Thus if a space of 100 cubic feet be allowed the 
soldier, it must have its air changed 36 times in an hour, if the proper 
amount of 3,600 cubic feet of air are to be given ; while the space of 1,000 
cubic feet need only have it changed three and one-half times in an hour 
to secure equal ventilation. 

In considering places in which the occupants are actively employed, 
as drill halls or gymnasia, the amount of air to be supplied must be pro- 
30 



466 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

l>ortionately increased. In light work, according to Notter and Firth, the 
carbon dioxide eliminated per hour is nearly 0.006 of a cubic foot per 
pound of body weight, and in hard work more than double that amount. 
Thus for the soldier, at the average weight for oiir service of 145 pounds, 
there is hourly eliminated 0.86 cubic foot of carbon dioxide during light 
work, which would properly imply a delivery of 4,140 cubic feet of fresh 
air during the same period. 

For healthy persons, the number of cubic feet of air required per hour 
may be found by dividing the amount of carbon dioxide exhaled during 
the same period by the permissible limit of respiratory impurity; and this 
standard is* now generally accepted by sanitarians. E _ -~ 

It is conveniently expressed by the following formula : ~p ~~ where 
E = the amount of CO a exhaled by one individual in an hour, P':= the 
limit of admissible impurity above the amount of CO., normally present 
in the atmosphere, stated per cubic foot, and D = the required delivery of 
fresh air in cubic feet per hour. 

With respect to the amount of fresh air per capita to be delivered 
hourly in hospitals, experiments seem to show that the amount required 
as a minimum by the sick is at least one-fourth greater than in health. 
For military hospitals at least 4,000 cubic feet, in round numbers, should 
therefore be demanded. In dealing with infectious cases a much greater 
amount of fresh air must be hourly provided, reaching 5,000, 6,000 or an 
even greater number of cubic feet if possible in fact, with such cases the 
supply should be practically unlimited. 

Natural Ventilation. A room is said to be naturally ventilated 
when no special measures are taken to ensure the entrance and removal of 
air, but reliance is had upon perflation through open doors and windows, 
leakage through their cracks, the percolation of a certain amount of air 
through walls, and on the aid of chimneys which serve for heating and 
have not been specially arranged to assist the changing of air. All these 
methods depend upon certain physical processes which are also made use 
of in artificial ventilation, and it is thus difficult to define exactly where 
natural ventilation ends and artificial ventilation begins. Though natural 
ventilation is usually sufficient for the proper renewal of air in officers' 
quarters, it is quite inadequate, by itself, in the case of barracks ; but when 
combined with such power as can be got from ordinary sources of warming 
and lighting, together with special arrangements for securing the maximum 
assistance from outside air currents, natural ventilation will be of great 
value in securing the desired results. 

The amount of air which percolates through a barrack wall is often 
considerable, though unfortunately so many factors influence its passage as 
to make it an uncertain source of supply. Among these factors, press- 
ure of the external air, as seen in winds blowing against the exposed side 
of a building, is of great importance, and in the absence of such wind a 
relatively smaller percolation of air takes place. The thickness of walls 
and the material of which they are constructed also exert a powerful in- 
fluence. Many observers have investigated the porosity of building ma- 
terials by determining the amount of air, under varying pressures, which 
would pass through a given superficies and thickness of the material in a 
given time, and all are agreed that walls of the usual materials may at 



VENTILATION 467 

times allow considerable air to pass through them this insensible percola- 
tion often contributing largely to ventilation. Pettenkofer found that the 
passage of air through the walls of an ordinary dwelling-house, under cer- 
tain conditions of wind and temperature, was sufficient to change the air 
of a room of 2,650 cubic feet capacity once every hour. Permeability t-t 
air, however, varies greatly with the nature of the building material used. 
Marble, stone and wood are not very permeable, and cement is leas so. 
Plaster is quite porous, and dry bricks let air pass readily. By covering 
a brick with wax, save for a small space at either end, and attaching a 
glass funnel thereto, Petteukofer was able to blow out a caudle flame 
through the full length of the brick. Moisture, however, practically ren- 
ders a wall impervious to air, and during rainy weather the passage of air 
into buildings, through their walls, ceases almost completely. Lathing 
and plastering somewhat diminish the passage of air, while papering or 
painting with oil paints almost completely prevent it. For these reasons, 
the porosity of walls cannot be constantly depended upon as a means of 
ventilation and should in practice be disregarded in making arrangements 
for the renewal of air in barracks. 

Analogous in its results to the entrance of fresh air through walls and 
crevices, is the escape from the room, into the atmosphere at large, of gase- 
ous impurities. This' is accomplished by diffusion, the rate of which is 
inversely as the square root of the density of the gas. Pettenkofer and 
Roscoe showed that diffusion readily took place through brick and stone, 
though moisture greatly interfered with the rapidity of the process. Through 
chinks and openings resulting from imperfect carpentry, gaseous impurities 
diffuse fast. Roscoe found that on evolving carbon dioxide in a room the 
proportion of this gas in the air was reduced as much as one-half in one 
and one-half hours. Greliant, after sealing up the cracks of a room with 
paper, j>assed in carbon dioxide until there were 35.7 parts of the latter 
per 1,000. In twenty-four hours this amount of carbon dioxide was re- 
duced to 0.8 per 1,000. For practical purposes, however, it has been 
shown that the amount of diffusion in the air of rooms is quite insufficient 
for its proper purification under ordinary circumstances; and in addition, 
organic matter, which is molecular and not gaseous, is not affected by it. 
Hence the purification resulting from the diffusion of gases may be regarded 
as of only secondary importance in the problem of ventilation and not to 
be taken into calculation. 

Next to the percolation of air into barracks through their walls and 
the cracks around doors and windows the simplest kind of ventilation, 
which more properly is aeration, is that through open doors and windows; 
but this method, except in the warmest weather, causes unpleasant 
drafts, and for this reason cannot be employed at all times. Neverthe- 
less, when weather permits, advantage should always be taken of it by 
troops in barracks. It is difficult to appreciate the vast amount of air 
which is admitted to squad-rooms through opened windows; this quantity 
being out of all proportion to what can be accomplished even by the best 
artificial arrangements. Where the outside air is moving at the rate of 
two miles per hour, a rate which is almost imperceptible, on passing freely 
through the side windows of a squad-room 24 feet broad it will change 
the air of that room 440 times per hour. With a moderate breeze the 



468 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




SMHJ 



FIG. 212. 



number of times the air is renewed is greatly increased, and it is obvious 
that no such powerful ventilating action as is given by perflation can be 
obtained in any other way. In some foreign armies the great value of 
pertiatioii is fully recognized, and in the French service it is laid down in 
regulations that, unless the weather be very inclement, in 
the morning as soon as the men have arisen and are dressed, 
all the windows on one side of the squad-room are to be 
opened; and when the barracks are temporarily vacated, as 
during drills, they are always to be fully aired. Similar 
regulations obtain in the British army. In our own service 
no such ruling is in force, but the windows of the squad- 
room should be freely opened from reveille until 9 A.M., and 
again for an hour about evening, regardless of any but ex- 
tremely stormy weather. The times chosen should prefer- 
ably be when the greatest number of men are absent on drill 
or other duty. If the climate and weather be suitable, sev- 
eral or all of the windows of the leeward side of the squad- 
room should be constantly kept open. Day-rooms are pro- 
vided in nearly all our barracks, and to these the men may 
resort without inconvenience during the period of airing. 
These precautions would seem too obviously necessary to 
require formal instruction, but experience shows that without constant 
oversight even the simplest sanitary rules will be disregarded by soldiers. 

Since windows play such an important part in natural ventilation, it is 
desirable that they be large and extend nearly to the ceiling to prevent 
stagnation of the upper layers of the air. To ensure thorough lateral ven- 
tilation by perflation it is important that, in their location, windows should 
be directly opposed to each other. The upper sash should also be freely 
movable. A number of slight modifications of window sashes, in form or 
arrangement, have been proposed with the idea of admitting a limited sup- 
ply of air in such a way as to prevent the creation of drafts ; and some 
of these, from their simplicity and efficiency, are of much value for the 
military service. The best and simplest device for the admission of cold 
air consists merely in raising the lower sash by an ac- 
curately fitting strip of wood, six or eight inches high 
and sometimes perforated horizontally with small 
holes. By this arrangement a space is left between 
the lower and upper sashes through which the air 
passes in a thin sheet and, being directed upward, 
curves into the room without perceptible draft 
(Fig. 212). During cold weather the window can of 
course be readily closed. A similar arrangement con- 
sists hi protecting the top of the upper sash by a slop- 
ing board. On lowering the upper sash two openings are thus created, 
the one between the two sashes often serving for the ingress of air while 
the opening at the top of the window serves as an outlet (Fig. 213). 
With the same idea, others have proposed to fit window sashes with double 
panes of glass, an open space being left at the bottom of the outer and the 
top of the inner panes. This arrangement was tried in the French army, 
and was found to be unsatisfactory by reason of the fact that the amount 




FIG. 213. 



VENTILATION. 



4G9 




of fresh air entering could not be controlled in cold weather, and also be- 
cause dust rapidly settled between the two panes of glass and could not 
readily be removed. Double windows, in winter, may be used in the 
same manner the swinging panes in the lower outside sash being opened 
and the upper inside sash being slightly lowered. It has been advised to 
put perforated plates of heavy glass in the upper part of windows ; the per- 
forations l>eing conical and having the larger ends toward the interior, to 
cause the entering air currents to diminish in force. These apertures are 
supposed to be closed, as required, by a hinged or sliding plate of glass. 
Perforated sashes have also been made by boring holes in the lower part of 
the upper sash. Such a procedure weakens the frame and, like the pre- 
ceding arrangement, is not desirable for military use. In some French 
barracks, simple openings made in the lower sash bar, guarded on the inside 
by a metal plate fixed parallel to the window frame so as to divert the air 
upward, have been tried. They possess no 
special advantages. Slats of glass, zinc or 
iron, constructed on the Venetian blind 
principle, have been recommended to be 
inserted in window frames. They are 
mentioned merely because they have been 
used in some foreign services. Swinging 
glass sashes are used in a number of foreign 
barracks for the upper half of the window. 
These should turn on horizontal rather than 
vertical pivots to avoid drafts. Some- 
times these swing, as in some German 
barracks, from the lower border; most of 
the entering air being thus directed up- 
ward. Swinging sashes of this character would undoubtedly be valuable 
for some of our southern posts in this country. 

During the day-time doors serve as a certain means of ventilation ; but 
at night, when all the men are present and vitiation of the air is greatest, 
they are usually closed. Squad-rooms are often supposed to be partially 
ventilated through doors opening into halls; but the air in the latter may 
be impure and the means provided for its renewal be insufficient, as at 
Washington Barracks, and may be of worse character than that of the 
rooms it is intended to benefit. This is particularly the case in barracks 
with dark longitudinal central hallways, of which fortunately but few 
exist in our service. On the other hand, where the hall is central, trans- 
verse, well-lighted and properly ventilated, it serves, together with the 
stairways running from basement to roof, as an efficient aspirating shaft, in 
the direction of which there is a general tendency of the air throughout 
the building to move. Especially in cold weather this movement is quite 
decided, and it is generally best to make use of it. Under such conditions, 
transoms should be placed over doors leading into the hall to give exit to 
air currents. 

Location and Size of Ventilating Openings. The best position of 
inlets for fresh air is not the same under all circumstances. Practically 
their location should vary with season, mode of warming, size and shape 
of rooms, and forces for distributing air. They should not be too large in- 




Fio. 214. Swinging Window 8Mb. 



470 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 215. Method of Warming and Admitting Fresh Air and Re- 
moving Foul Air, as Used in the British Army. 



dividually since any system that does not allow the gradual entrance of 
air is bad and should be distributed around the squad-room. If placed 
too near outlets, the entering fresh air may at once escape without mixing 
with that throughout the room, since air always moves on the line of least 
resistance. Theoretically, the proper place of inlets is at the floor of the 

room ; but if they are so 
located in cold climates 
the entering air must be 
warmed ; for soldiers will 
not tolerate chilling of 
the feet by cold drafts, 
and inlets offending in 
this respect are certain to 
be closed. Entering air 
may be warmed by being 
admitted under stoves 
surrounded by a metal 
hood, or through boxes 
containing hot water or 
steam .pipes. In our new 
barracks the steam radia- 
tors are located under the 
windows and directly in 
front of the fresh air intakes. The entering air is diverted upward along 
the flutings of the radiators, is warmed and also continues its vertical 
direction for some feet after leaving the radiator (Fig. 216). Provision 
is also made so that fresh air can be admitted directly without passing 
through the radiators, if desired. In the British service, fireplaces are 
much used for the heating of barracks, and a part of the entering air is 
warmed by being passed through ventilating flues in the chimney. This 
method is unsatisfactory in such severe winter weather as may be expected 
in the northern parts of this country, although well adapted to moderate 
degrees of cold. Where inlets are placed in the floors their cleanliness 
must be carefully looked to, as otherwise they are liable to collect dust, 
sputum, cigar stubs, match ends and other refuse. 

If the entering air cannot be warmed, it should be let into the room at 
a height of nine or ten feet above the floor, and be directed upward. It 
thus passes up, is partly warmed by contact with the heated plaster of the 
ceiling, along which it has a tendency to spread in a thin sheet, and then 
mixes gradually with the air of the room as it falls.' In the British army, 
half the air brought into barracks is admitted in this way ; the other half 
is warmed before entrance and is admitted at a lower level. In general, 
for temperate climates, where the air can be heated the entrance should be 
near the floor. If heating can be accomplished the location of the inlet 
below is in all respects satisfactory ; if it cannot be done, the inlet must be 
located near the ceiling theoretical considerations to the contrary. It 
should be understood that a system which, in practice, works satisfactorily 
is preferable to one which, though excellent in theory, operates badly. 

The location of outlets is a matter of the greatest importance in the 
ventilation of barracks ; and, like that of the inlets, their jwsition should 



VENTILATION. 



471 



vary according to circumstances. In general, the positions of inlets and 
outlets are interdependent. The fact that in heated and occupied rooms 
the upper layers of air are the most vitiated, points to the theoretical im- 
portance of withdrawing the air from a higher level. Moreover at night, 
which is the period of the greatest vitiation in respect to the air of squad- 
rooms, the ascent of the respired air and its impurities is rapid, not only 
from its higher temperature but from the force with which it is propelled 
upward by recumbent sleepers. On the other hand it has been argued by 
many that it is better for the foul air to pass off below the level of the 
person, so that the products of respiration may be immediately drawn 
down below the mouth and be replaced by descending pure air. But the 
resistance to be overcome in drawing down the hot air of respiration is 
so great that there is a considerable waste of power, and the obstacle to 
the discharge is sometimes sufficient, if the extracting force be at all less- 
ened, to reverse the movement so that fresh air forces its way in through 
the pipes intended for discharge. It is plain that the location of aper- 
tures for the removal of air at points near the floor is opposed by all natural 
laws governing the movement of air; but nevertheless, where the entering 
air is unwarmed, this arrangement is probably the best in practice for cold 
climates. Careful experi- 
ments seem definitely to 
show that the most success- 
ful results are obtained, in 
respect to the mixing of 
the entering air with that 
already present, when the 
inlet is high up in the wall 
and the outlet is low down 
diagonally on the opposite 
side of the room; but to 
operate such a system the 
air in the extracting shaft 
must be warmer than that 
outside , and the practical 
efficiency of ventilation will 
vary with the difference be- 
tween these temperatures. 
Usually the heating of the 
air in the extracting shaft 
is readily accomplished by 
some simple arrangement. 
Often the outlet shafts are 
built into the chimney and 
the heat from fires below is 
thus utilized for ventilation. Where central heating is used, this method 
is generally employed ; though sometimes steam or hot water coils are 
placed around the base of the shaft for greater heat, as is done in some 
of our new barracks. With open fireplaces, the chimney itself serves as 
an excellent extracting shaft. Where ordinary stoves are used for heating, 
probably the best arrangement consists in running a large air-shaft down 




Fir,. 218. Arrnnfft'tnent for the Admission of Wanned Air Into 
Squad-Rooms. Direct- Indirect system. 



472 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

to the floor, preferably in the center of the squad-room, and allowing the 
stove-pipes to enter this shaft toward the upper part. Openings are then 
provided at the top and bottom of this shaft as in fact should be done 
with all outlet flues capable of being opened or closed as required ; so that 
in winter the air is drawn out from near the floor level, while in warm 
weather, when the stoves are not in operation, the upper valve may be 
oj>ened and the heated air of the apartment thus allowed to escape natu- 
rally. This arrangement is partially shown in the accompanying diagram, 
in which, however, the upper outlet does not appear, since that portion of 
the air-shaft in which it should be located is cut away to show the arrange- 
ment of the stove-pipes. Where a single stove is used for heating, the 
mistake has at times been made of carrying the pipe directly upward, sur- 
rounding it by a flue of 
larger caliber where it 
passes out of the room, 
and in some cases ex- 
tending this larger pipe 
nearly down to the stove. 
Under such conditions, 
much of the heated en- 
tering air at once escapes 
without mixing with that 
in the room, to the det- 
riment of not only ven- 
tilation but warmth. 
Where stoves are used, 
the pipes should be car- 
ried horizontally for some 
distance before entering 
the outlet shaft and pass- 
ing upward, so that the 
points of intake and dis- 
charge may be well separated and as much heat as possible be utilized in 
warming the room. 

Ir warm climates, or during hot weather when fires are not kept up, 
the outlets are obviously best located in or close to the ceiling; ridge ven- 
tilation probably giving the best results. Of several outlet tubes, under 
such conditions, the highest outlet is usually the point of greatest discharge, 
and sometimes the only one reverse currents perhaps being established 
through the other shafts. It should not be forgotten that the heat re- 
sulting from illumination may be sufficient to change the usual direction 
of air currents, and thus the problem of renewing the supply of air by day 
and night may be double, no single arrangement being entirely satisfactory. 
If possible, ventilating outlets should not be located over beds, since a re- 
version of air currents, as at times occurs, would create descending drafts 
of cold air on the men below. 

On inquiring as to the minimum size of the ventilating space through 
which the necessary air has to pass, it is apparent that this entirely de- 
pends upon the rapidity with which air can be taken through the space 
without its movement being perceptible or injurious; this, in its turn, 




y 

FIG. 217.- Dlaarram Showing Use of Stoves In Assisting in Ventila- 
tion, Together with Location of Inlets and Outlets. 



VENTILATION. 



473 



being secondarily dependent upon the size of the cubic air space provided. 
The theoretical size for any required change of air, supposing that the con- 
ditions are constant, can be obtained by the use of the following formula, 
suggested by de Chaumout : 

D 

2> f ( V^TTl t ' ) X 0.002) = 

In this formula D = delivery per hour in cubic feet ; 200 is a con- 
stant ; f is the coefficient of friction ; h is the height of the heated column 
of air; t = its temperature; t' that of the outer air; 0.002 the ratio of 
expansion of air for each degree F. ; I = inlet and O = outlet, both in 
square inches. It is commonly stated that, as heated air expands, the 
inlets should be slightly less in area than the outlets. This, however, is 
so slight that it may safely be disregarded under usual conditions, since 
with a difference in temperature of 30 F. air expands only one-seven- 
teenth of its volume. Carpenter gives the following figures as showing 
the ventilating area, in square inches, required for each 1,000 cubic feet 
of space under different rates of renewal of air. 



Velocity in feet 
per second. 


M-MIIKK or TIMES AIR is CHANGED PER HOIK. 


1. 


> 


3. 


4. 


6. 


6. 


1 .. 


40. sq. in. 
20 
13.8 " 
10 
8 
6.7 " 


80 sq. in. 
40 
26 
20 
16 
13 


120 sq. in. 
60 
40 
30 
24 
20 


160 sq. in. 
80 " 
58 " 
40 tt 
84 u 
27 u 


200 sq. in. 
100 u 
67 " 
50 tt 
40 tt 
88 " 


240 sq. in. 
120 
80 
60 
48 
40 


2 


8 


4 


5 


6 





As the movements of air out of and into barracks vary in rapidity ac- 
cording to the difference between internal and external temperatures, it is 
obviously out of the question to set any one standard of size for ventilating 
apertures which would be suitable for all conditions ; even if the influence 
of wind be excluded, which is impossible. The only way is to adopt a 
size which will meet most cases, and also provide means of altering the 
supply according to circumstances. Sanitarians appear to have generally 
accepted as standard, for temperate climates, an area per man of twenty- 
four square inches for inlet and the same for outlet. In the barrack regu- 
lations of the British army the sectional area of the ventilating inlet is 
fixed at twenty-four square inches per capita ; but to hourly supply through 
this space the 3,600 cubic feet of air necessary for the proper dilution of 
respiratory impurity would imply an entering current having a rapidity of 
six feet per second, which is too great for comfort. With a three foot 
rate, only 1,800 cubic feet of fresh air could be supplied hourly through an 
aperture of this si/e ; and with a rate of this proper character it is clear 
that theoretical standards, as already discussed, demand a ventilating 
space of 48 square inches per man. To give the best results each indi- 
vidual inlet opening should not be larger than 48 to 60 square inches, and 
no outlet should have a sectional area greater than one square foot. With 
openings of this size located around a squad-room, disagreeable currents are 
avoided and the general distribution of fresh air is more certain. 




FIG. glS.-Jenninfts's Air-Brick. 



474 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Intake Apparatus. Besides the natural admission of air into bar- 
racks through walls, windows and doors, a number of special devices have 
been proposed to permit of the entrance of a sufficient amount of air with- 
out the creation of drafts. While designed primarily for the introduc- 
tion of air, these arrangements, under varying conditions of wind, tem- 
perature and other factors, may also at times 
serve as outlets. 

For'the admission of air, perforated bricks 
are sometimes built into walls. These bricks 

N^^j * are usually pierced with conical holes of about 
^Tl ^""1^ I L $ one -fifth of an inch in diameter, the base 
pointing internally better to ensure the grad- 
ual entrance of air. The usual size of the 
brick being 3x9 inches, the united venti- 
lating area is about 11 square inches. An- 
other common size is 6 x 10 inches, having 
an open area of 24 square inches. The air 
passing in through these holes is so divided 
that it gives no draft. These bricks are best 
placed just behind and concealed by the skirting board. Jennings' air- 
brick is another form of these inlets, being usually placed in the walls 
near the ceiling. The outside air, before passing into the room, is led into 
a small chamber where much of its suspended dust is deposited. An open 
iron frame of the size of a brick, covered with an iron grating and with a 
valve to close it, is an arrangement for the admission of air which gives 
fairly good results. 

A simple shaft, capped with a swinging cowl so arranged as to always 
present its open mouth to the direction from which the wind is blowing, 
affords a ready means for the forcing in of fresh air. These swinging ven- 
tilators, however, usually become rusty and hence noisy in their action; 
beside which they may become jammed or be rusted into a 
fixed position, in which case they are liable to be converted 
into aspiratory shafts and serve for the egress instead of 
the entrance of air. Windsails, as used on board ship, are 
similar in principle to the above. A fixed cowl for perfla- 
tion through a downcast shaft is made from a tube, the up- 
per end of which is funnel-shaped and is surmounted by a 
top shaped like an inverted cone. The wind is thus de- 
flected downward from whatever direction it may come. 
Both these forms of ventilator may give rise to strong air 
currents during high winds, while in still and warm days 
their action may be reversed. 

In some cases, ordinary tubes, as proposed by Tobin, 
provide for the introduction of air from the outside at the 
floor level and then up a vertical tube inside the room to a point about 
six feet in height. This gives a vertical direction to the entering current, 
which is retained for several feet further before it begins to spread and 
descend. The action of each tube is much affected by the direction of 
the wind and like the forms of apparatus just mentioned it may, in fact, 
be reversed altogether. In some modifications of these tubes the air is 




FIG. 


219. D 


own- 


cast Shaft with 


Fixed Cowl. 



VENTILATION. 475 

warmed by a gas-jet before entrance. These tubes are liable to get duty 
and full of cobwebs, and do not satisfactorily meet the needs of the mili- 
tary service. 

One of the best forms of inlet, where unwarmed air is to be admitted, 
is the Sheringham valve much used in foreign armies. It consists of a 
trough having its rear wall removed and pivoted at its lower interior 
border. Usually it is located about two feet below the ceiling of the 
room. Air passes in through an open- 
ing in the wall behind the trough, and is 
directed upward by its internal lip. The 
ventilator can be opened or closed as de- 




sired, usually being so balanced as to /_ h 

fall open by its own weight. As used / 
in the British service, the size of the in- ' 
ner opening is 27 square inches. This Fl0 ' " lr ~ lfcl 2K3 S* Fh>nt and 
is somewhat larger than the area of the out- 
side intake, and the velocity of the entering air is proportionately lessened. 
The wind blows through these valves and the movement of air is therefore 
variable. They are often outlets; in fact it depends upon circumstances 
as to whether they act as inlets or outlets. Very little draft is caused 
by them save in high winds, and they are generally regarded as very satis- 
factory. Similar to these valves, but not so readily operated, are drawer- 
shaped inlets having no back wall. These work horizontally back and 
forth. When pulled out into the room, air passes through them and is 
deflected upward by the interior border. 

The ventilating cornice, used in the British and other foreign services, 
is especially designed to limit the liability to drafts. In character it 
does not greatly differ from the Sheringham valve, and, like it, is placed 
covering an aperture in the wall, a little below the ceiling; being consid- 
erably larger than the opening it 
guards. The top is covered with 
zinc pierced with numerous small 
holes, save directly over the aper- 
ture in the wall. In this manner 
entering air currents are completely 
broken up and the fresh air passes 

Fio.aa.-ventllatlngcorn.oe. Front and section- insensibly into the room The to- 

ai Yiew. tal area of the small holes in the 

top of the cornice should be six or 

eight times the size of the orifice of admission. Sometimes a valve is also 
used with this apparatus. 

In this connection, it may be stated that all delivering air-shafts should 
be short and capable of being easily cleansed. This is an important matter, 
and should lead to the rejection of all plans in which the reverse prevails. 
With long shafts, friction is great, dirt lodges and the entering air is im- 
pure. As already stated, intakes should be numerous and small rather 
than large or single, and should preferably be enlarged where they enter 
the room. This is important in preventing drafts. For the same reason 
their external orifices should be partially protected from the wind, since 
otherwise the latter may blow through them too rapidly Sometimes the 




476 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

intake shaft is curved for this purpose, or an overhanging shelf or hood 
may be used. Means should be taken to divert the air upward on enter- 
ing the room. Gratings over both ends of the shaft are important to 
exclude foreign objects, but they should be capable of ready removal for 
purposes of cleanliness. Since gratings reduce the size of the openings 
to some extent, an allowance in this respect may have to be made ; with 
ordinary registers, this generally amounts to about 30 per cent. Where 
wire netting of large mesh is used to protect the opening no special allow- 
ance in this respect is required. All intakes should be provided with 
valves, so that they may be closed if required. They should always open 
externally at least one foot above the surface of the ground, and the latter 
should be open, dry and well policed. If possible, the neighboring ground 
should be covered with short grass to limit the creation of dust. All shafts 
should be frequently inspected as to their cleanliness and perviousness, 
and this is especially important in cold weather. Mention has been made 

of the special tendency on the part of soldiers 
to stop them up at such times. 

Combined Inlets and Outlets. A num- 
ber of simple but excellent arrangements for 
the renewal of air in rooms have been proposed, 
depending for their action on natural processes. 
These are usually planned to act at the same 
time as both inlets and outlets. A single verti- 
cal shaft has sometimes been used for this pur- 
pose, double currents of air being established 
through it. This is a crude plan, as there are 



\ 



J 



t 



y no means of distributing the air, and the fric- 

FIO. 222. Watson's Tube. tion of the opposing currents together with the 
action of winds and conditions of temperature 

is often so great as to stop the movement of air through it. To avoid 
these inconveniences, Watson suggested the simple plan of merely divid- 
ing the air-shaft by a longitudinal partition. With this arrangement, 
when placed in the ceiling of a room, ascending currents are established by 
the heated air through one compartment, while cold air flows down through 
the other compartment to replace what has passed out. In shafts of this 
character, accidental circumstances, such as the wind, sun's rays or proxim- 
ity of artificial heat, will determine which channel is outlet and which is in- 
let. They are so far better than the single tube in that the partition divides 
the currents and prevents friction, but there is irregularity of action and the 
distribution of air is not good. The Muir ventilator is similar to that pro- 
posed by Watson, consisting merely of a box or shaft divided longitudinally 
into four compartments by diagonally located partitions. The upper part 
of the shaft, where it projects above the roof, is protected by slats ; these 
being inclined upward to prevent down-drafts and assist the movement 
of up-currents by the aspiratory action of the wind. Through the heat of 
the sun and action of the wind, two compartments of this ventilator 'serve 
as outlets, while descending currents are established through the others. 

The McKinnell ventilator is a perfected type of the Watson tube It 
is composed of two cylinders; one inside the other and separated by an in- 
terval having a total area equal to the sectional area of the inner tube. 



VENTILATION. 



477 




Fir,. 223. Muir Ventilator. 
/I, Transverse section of 
name. 



This interior tube projects beyond the external one at both top and bottom. 
The inner tube is the outlet tube ; this being so because the outer casing 
of air maintains a higher temperature in it, and it is also made higher 
than the other and is protected by a cowl above it. As the warm air 
escapes through the inner tube a corresponding amount of cold air flows in 
through the interspace between the pipes, and is di- 
verted by the flange on the lower end of the inner 
pipe toward the walls of the room. A lamp or gas 
jet swung immediately below this ventilator adds 
greatly to its efficiency at night. It has been much 
used in foreign barracks. 

Simple ridge openings may be used in one-story 
buildings and are generally employed in our older 
style of post hospitals. During the Civil War es- 
pecially they were much used. They ventilate most 
thoroughly, but snow sometimes drifts in. The en- 
trance of rain can be prevented by carrying down 
the sides of the overhanging ridge for some little 
distance, and a flange placed a short distance below 
the opening will throw any down-draft toward the 
walls. To be of most advantage, the space under 
the longitudinal ventilating ridge should be contin- 
uous throughout with the room below. In many 

instances in our service, foul air can escape from the room into the ven- 
tilator space only through gratings, the latter catching and retaining much 
dust and being cleansed with the greatest difficulty. In many instances 
also, where ridge ventilation has been provided, there is an utter lack of pro- 
portion between the small gratings in the ceiling and the large apertures in 
the ventilating ridge. During cold weather ridge ventilators must be closed. 
All the forms of ventilators above described serve purely as outlets 
when the windows and doors of the room are open. If these be closed 

and open fireplaces or stoves are used, the 
currents may be reversed and the ventilators 
thus act as intakes only. 

Fairly good ventilation can be secured 
by means of a series of horizontal ventilat- 
ing shafts placed close to the ceiling. These, 
running across the room from wall to wall, 
open into the air at each end by a ventilat- 
ing air brick or register. The sides of these 
tubes are of perforated zinc and, to prevent 
the wind blowing directly through, the cen- 
ter is divided vertically by a partition. 
According as the wind blows from one side 
or another, one part of the shaft becomes an 
inlet and the other an outlet. 

It is obvious that the different arrange- 
ments for ventilation described above pos- 
sess a special value for the military service, since they present no mechani- 
cal difficulties of construction and may be satisfactorily improvised in an 




Fio. 224.-McKlnnell's Circular Tentt- 
lator. 



478 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

emergency out of any materials which may be at hand. Where troops are 
placed in temporary and roughly constructed winter-quarters, the establish- 
ment of simple arrangements of this kind will add greatly to the ventila- 
tion and healthfulness of the latter. 

Extraction by Heat. The proper ventilation of barracks is insepa- 
rably connected with the heating of air. In becoming warmer, air endeav- 
ors to expand, and if there be any opportunity for it to escape a portion of 
it will do so, and that which remains will be lighter than an equal bulk of 
the colder air outside. The outer air will then flow into the room by 
every orifice until the equality of weight outside and inside is re-estab- 
lished. But as the fresh air which comes in is heated in its turn, the 
movement is kept up in a constant stream, cold air entering by one set of 
openings and warm air escaping by another. 

In winter, the artificial warming of barracks greatly assists the change 
of air within them, as does also the means used for illumination. The 
amount of heat given off from the bodies of soldiers is also no small factor 
in raising the temperature of squad-rooms above that of the open air. 
Putzeys states that about 67 per cent, of the body heat of an individual is 
ordinarily lost by radiation and contact, and the same writer quotes figures 
given by Barral to the effect that the heat given off by the body of an 
adult is capable of raising the temperature of 500 cubic feet of air 27 F. 
in an hour. This amount of heat given off by the bodies of soldiers is not 
only a point to be considered in connection with the necessity for renew- 
ing the air in barracks, but may thus become a factor of importance in 
relation to the processes by which this is accomplished. Obviously it is 
during whiter that ventilators have then- maximum influence. In summer 
or in tropical climates the outside temperature is high, and the influence 
of heat upon the renewal of air in rooms is reduced to the minimum but 
fortunately under these conditions special methods of ventilation depending 
upon heat are of less importance, since at such times the outside doors and 
windows are generally kept open. 

In calculating the rapidity with which ventilating air currents will 
pass in and out of heated barracks, use is generally made of two well- 
known physical laws : First, that the velocity in feet per second of fall- 
ing bodies is equal to nearly eight times the square root of the height 
through which they have fallen ; and second, that fluids pass through an 
orifice in a partition with a velocity equal to that which a body would at- 
tain in falling through a height equal to the difference in level of the fluid 
on both sides of the partition. In the consideration of air currents there 
is substituted for the difference of level the difference in pressure on the 
two sides of the partition or opening, and this is expressed by the differ- 
ence in height of the openings of entrance and exit, divided by 49 1 ; ^-J-j- 
representing the expansion of the atmosphere in volume and lessening of 
density for each degree (Fahrenheit) of rise in temperature. The velocity 
of influx or outgo will, therefore, equal 

g A /(diff. in temp.) X (diff. in height) 

V ' 491. 

For determining the velocity of the movement of air up a heat extrac- 
tion shaft, the following formula is offered by Notter and Firth: 

V = 86.5 y H ( t - T). 



VENTILATION. 



479 



In this, V is the velocity in feet per second, H is the height of the 
shaft in feet, t is the temperature at the top of the shaft, and T is the tem- 
perature of the air supplying it. The velocity multiplied by the sectional 
area of the shaft gives the cubical discharge. In practice an allowance 
must be made for friction. Hillings places this at from twenty to fifty 
per cent., so minute calculations are useless. 

Carpenter gives the following table showing the quantity of air, in 
cubic feet, discharged per minute through a shaft of which the cross-sec- 
tional area is one square foot ; the external temperature of air being figured 
at 32 F., and the allowance for friction being fifty per cent. Under 
most conditions in the military service the allowance for friction need 
not be so high, usually not more than twenty-five to thirty-five per cent. 



Height of nue 
in feet. 


ELEVATION or TEMPERATURE or AIR IN FLCK ABOVE THAT or EXTERNAL AIR. 


5. 


10-. 


ir>. 


SO". 


26. 


30. 


60. 


100". 


1 


cubic feet, 
24 
55 
77 
94 
108 
121 
138 
143 
153 
162 
171 
188 


ruble feet. 
34 
76 
108 
133 
153 
171 
188 
203 
217 
230 
242 
264 


cubic feet 
42 
94 
133 
162 
188 
210 
230 
248 
265 
282 
297 
325 


cubic feet. 
48 
109 
153 
iss 
217 
242 
265 
286 
306 
825 
342 
378 


cubic feet. 
54 
121 
171 
210 
242 
271 
297 
820 
342 
863 
383 
420 


cubic feet. 
59 
134 
188 
230 
265 
297 
325 
351 
875 
398 
419 
461 


cubic feet. 
76 
167 
242 
297 
342 
883 
419 
458 
484 
514 
541 
594 


cubic feet. 
108 
242 
Ml 

419 
484 
541 
593 
640 
684 
724 
765 
885 


5 


10 


15 


20 


25 


30 


85 


40 


45 


50 


60 





From this table it is apparent that where the foul air of different floors 
of a barrack building is removed through heat extraction shafts, the dis- 
charge of air from the lower rooms, other conditions of size of shafts and 
temperature being the same, will be much greater than from those of the 
upper story. It follows also that where a squad-room is ventilated through 
several up-cast shafts, the length of these, together with their exposure 
. to cooling influences, should be the same. Billings states that the move- 
ment of air in outlet shafts is normally about five feet per seciond from 
lower floors and four feet per second from upper rooms, provided that the 
flue is not artificially heated above room temperature. It is clear that to 
secure an equal outflow of air from upper floors there must be a propor- 
tionate increase in the sectional area of their discharge shafts. These are 
all practical points which appear to have rarely received consideration in 
our service. 

Ordinary chimneys with open fireplaces afford excellent facilities for 
the extraction of air by heat, the outgoing current of air being proportional 
to the size of the fire and of the chimney. A small fire is said to give an 
upward movement of air at the rate of about five feet per second ; a large 
open fire of eight or nine. With open fires, all other openings usually be- 
come inlets, the movement of the air in the room being toward the fire- 
place. In the British and other foreign armies, open fires are much used ; 
in our own service they are rarely employed, since they are wasteful of 
fuel in proportion to 'the heat they give out into the room. 



480 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 225. Arnott's Valve. 



Efforts have been made to use the drafts passing up the chimneys, 
where stoves or furnaces are used, for the aspiration and escape of vitiated 
air from the room; but with ordinary openings reverse currents, with an 
influx of smoke and gas into the room, were always to be apprehended. 
To overcome this fault, valves of some light material, opening only 
toward the chimney, have been employed. Arnott's valve consists of a 
light silk curtain which lifts up readily when the 
movement of air is outward, but is pressed flat against 
a metal grating by reverse currents and thus closes 
the opening. With this valve there is sometimes 
reflux of smoke from the silk curtain not fitting tight- 
ly. To overcome this defect, Boyle suggested the use 
of thiu mica plates ; and recently plates of aluminum 
have been employed for the same purpose. It is very 
evident that such valves will not be lifted by the 
weaker currents of air, and the snapping noise they 
make when closing, especially with metal flaps, is 
said to be sometimes objectionable. On the whole, however, these valves 
may at times serve a useful purpose as accessory to other means of venti- 
lation. 

Even when they have no fire in them, chimneys may serve as heat ex- 
traction shafts through the heating of the upper part of the chimney by 
the sun. To aid in this respect, chimneys may with advantage be painted 
black to better absorb the solar heat ; and in some cases the roof immedi- 
ately around the chimneys, together with screens on the northern ex- 
posure, have been painted white with a view of reflecting additional heat 
rays upon them. These simple measures may of course be taken to in- 
crease the efficiency of ordinary up-cast ventilating shafts as well as chim- 
neys. It should not be forgotten, however, that where these shafts pro- 
ject much above the roof, they are also exposed to cooling influences which 
retard the passage of air up them. Whereyer the heat in the rooms below 
is greater than that of the surrounding air, an ascending current through 
the chimney will be established ; while if the temperature of the air in 
the chimney be from any cause lower than that of the 
surrounding air a reverse current is established. 
While affording valuable assistance in ventilation, 
chimneys and open fireplaces are not sufficient for the 
proper renewal of air in large and crowded rooms, as 
in barracks, and additional measures should be pro- 
vided where they are used. 

As previously mentioned, the temperature of ex- 
tracting shafts is usually maintained at a sufficiently 
high level, where stoves are employed for warming, by passing the stove 
pipes up through the shafts before discharging into the chimney or outer 
air. This utilizes much of the heat which might otherwise be lost. Where 
steam heat or hot water is used for warming barracks, the pipes eaay be 
coiled around the lower part of the ventilating shaft to maintain it at the 
desired temperature. In some of our new barracks, heated in this man- 
ner, this method is not used ; it being claimed that sufficiently good results 
are obtained by building the ventilating up-cast shafts in the masonry of 




FIG. 226. Boyle's Valve, 
Back view. 



VENTILATION. 481 

the chimney, and utilizing such heat as may be conducted through the 
walls of the latter. This method, though valuable, can obviously be im- 
proved upon. All methods of ventilation by extraction by heat are unsatis- 
factory unless a sufficiently elevated temperature is maintained in the flues ; 
though usually when no fires are kept up the outside temperature is such 
that recourse can be had to natural renewal of air by open windows and 
doors. There are occasions, however, when such arrangements are un- 
satisfactory ; and under such conditions lamps or gas-jets may be used 
to heat the shaft and promote up-currents. The burners should be lo- 
cated at the bottom of the shafts to give the maximum results. The re- 
lation between the amount of coal-gas burned and the volume of air removed 
is variable ; Morin having shown that it was much more economical to dis- 
tribute the heat in a flue with a large sectional area than to burn the samd 
amount of gas in a small shaft. Notter and Firth state that one cubic 
foot of gas burned is capable of extracting 3,000 cubic feet of air, under 
favorable conditions ; while Laveran places the average amount which can 
in practice be removed at 2,500 cubic feet. Instead of 
burning the gas or oil directly in the shaft, the lower part 
of the latter can be made of sheet metal, the flame being 
maintained beneath this metal frame, as shown in Fig. 
227. As mentioned elsewhere, it is extremely important 
that the heat resulting from illumination should be uti- 
lized for room ventilation, the same means removing the 
heat and the impurities resulting from combustion. The 
latter may be collected in a funnel over the lamp or gas- 
jet, and can be conducted outside by an extracting shaft, 
together with much of the heated and impure air of the 
room itself. The Wenham recuperative burner, described in the section on 
the lighting of barracks, is of excellent service in promoting ventilation. 

Wherever shafts are used for the extraction of air by heat, it is obvious 
that they should be enclosed within walls as much as possible to prevent 
the contained air from being cooled. This simple point has sometimes 
been overlooked, and the efficiency of up-cast shafts thus practically de- 
stroyed. Where central heating is employed, the ventilating shafts are 
best placed between partition walls; since if they are located in outer 
walls a certain amount of shilling js unavoidable. Where stoves are used 
in pavilion barracks or wards, the extracting shafts are best placed in the 
center of the room with respect to the prevention of chilling though when 
so placed they are somewhat inconvenient for purposes of administration. 
Extracting shafts should be as straight as possible and possess smooth in- 
terior surfaces, so that friction should be reduced to the minimum. They 
are best made cylindrical for the same reason ; and should be capped with 
cowls to aid the aspiratory action of the wind, reduce the liability of down- 
drafts and prevent the entrance of rain, which, by its evaporation, would 
tend to lower the temperature of the shaft and interfere with its operation. 
Sometimes, also, the heated air becomes cooled by passage through an ex- 
posed tube, as already suggested, so that it cannot overcome the weight of 
the superimposed atmosphere ; or another outlet shaft of greater discharge 
may reverse the current. This possible reversion of action in outlet tubes 
is a reason why proper attention should be given to their cleanliness. 
31 




482 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 228. Rotating 
Cowl for Aspira- 
tion. 



Ventilation by Aspiration. The action of winds is of considerable 
value in securing the proper renewal of air in barracks. A moving body 
of air sets in motion all air in its vicinity. It drives air before it and, at 
the same time, causes a partial vacuum on either side of its own path, 
toward which all the air in the vicinity flows at angles 
more or less approaching right angles. In this way a 
small current moving at a high velocity will set in motion 
a large body of air. Advantage can be taken of this as- 
piratory power of the wind to cause a movement of air 
up an ordinary shaft; the rapidity of the ascending cur- 
rent being in direct relation to the horizontal velocity 
of the wind. The latter, however, in the absence of pro- 
per means of protecting the top of the shaft, may at times 
impede ventilation by obstructing the exit of air from any particular open- 
ing, or by blowing down a chimney or tube. This is, in fact, one reason 
for the failure of so many of the less carefully planned systems of ventila- 
tion ; they may work well in a fairly still atmosphere, but the immense 
resistance of high winds has not been taken into account. 

The aspiratory power of the wind and the production of a head for 
ventilation, by the movement of air over the mouth of a tube, can best be 
secured by covering the air-shaft with a cowl, which 
both aids up-currents and prevents down-drafts. 
This is practically the idea with which all varieties 
of up-cast ventilators are constructed, however 
varied may be their external appearance. As usu- 
ally tixed to buildings, cowls may be uncertain in 
their action from the variability of the wind cur- 
rents, due to the effects of the surfaces of the 
buildings themselves. Although many forms of 
cowl have been designed to render up-cast ventila- 
tors serviceable, irrespective of the direction from 
which the wind blows, there are practically only 
two types i namely, those with rotating cowls and 
those with fixed vanes. Of the former type the simplest form is shown in 
the accompanying illustration (Fig. 228), it setting itself by means of a 
wind-vane so that the opening always faces away from the wind. An 
improvement on this primitive type is Banner's cowl, which probably 
represents the best form of rotating aspiratory ventilator. In winter, how- 
ever, this apparatus is said to be liable to be stopped up 
with snow. In general, all rotating cowls are very 
efficient so long as they act as intended ; but they are 
apt to become fixed and have their action reversed by 
winds from the opposite direction. When rusty, their 
movement is accompanied by an unpleasant grating 
noise, but on the whole they are satisfactory. 

The fixed type of exhaust apparatus is best repre- 
sented by the Star ventilator, now being used in our 
service to the exclusion of other models. In it the 
motion of air is always tangential to the shaft opening, from whatever di- 
rection the wind blows. This ventilator is very efficient as regards as- 




Fio. 229. Banner's Rotating 
Exhaust Ventilator. 




FIG. 230. Star Ventila- 
tor. 



VENTILATION. 



483 




FIG. 231. Wolpert's 
Ventilator. 




piration, is protected against rain and down-drafts and does not collect 
snow and ice in winter. Somewhat similar in principle to this, but less 
efficient, is the Wolpert ventilator, much used in foreign v x 

services. This consists merely of a pipe supporting an 
aspiratory chamber flaring at the bottom and with a 
protective cap fastened a couple of inches above its 
upper margin. Down-drafts are effectually prevent- 
ed with this apparatus, but its aspiratory effect is by 
no means as great as is given by the Star ventilator. 
A third modification of the fixed ventilator is the Hanks 
apparatus. This is an excellent ventilator having a 
powerful exhausting effect, the large amount of wind 
brought to act on the orifice of the inner pipe having 
great extracting power even in a gentle breeze. A cap 
to protect against storm-water and minimize down- 
drafts is generally used with this ventilator. A com- 
mon modification of an ordinary up-cast shaft, and one 
which gives fairly good results, consists in adding a simple flange which 
slopes downward and outward from the rim of the 
tube. This increases aspiration by giving an upward 
tendency to horizontal air currents. A conical roof 
keeps out rain and prevents down-drafts. 

From the simple construction of aspirating cowls 
it is evident that, in an emergency, excellent makeshifts 
can readily l>e improvised from a few joints of stove 
pipe and such sheet metal as can readily be obtained 
from old coal-oil cans or water buckets. It having 
been found that where a number of small separate 
flues lead from a single room they are liable to pull 
against each other, it will frequently be of advantage 
to bring several of such flues together to a single outlet, 
protected by a suitable ventilating cowl. 

Other Means of Ventilation. The renewal of 
air by means of fans is accomplished by either extrac- 
tion or propulsion. The latter method is usually pre- 
ferable, since the entering air may be drawn from a 
source known to be pure, and may be heated or cooled 
before being passed into the apartment. By this means 
fresh air can be distributed with ease and certainty at any 
rate and in any quantity. The disadvantages are great 
cost of operation and the constant possibility of break- 
ing down at the time when most required. On account 
of the expense attached to its operation this method of 
ventilation is not suited to barracks, though well adapted 
to hospitals. Several hospitals in the French military 
service are ventilated in this manner ; the movement of 
the fan, in one case, changing its direction every hah* 
hour, forcing air in and drawing it out alternately. The 
system of ventilation by propulsion has been tried in our 
service, having been installed at Madison Barracks a num- 





FIG. 232. Hanks's Ven- 
tilator. 




FIO. 233. Tube 



484 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




"<*! 



FIG. 234. Wing Disc Fan. 



her of years ago. The results given by it as regards the renewal of air 
were reported as excellent ; but motives of economy later resulted in its dis- 
use, and other methods of ventilation have been substituted for it. Either 

steam or electricity may be used 
for power. The chief fans used 
for this method of ventilation are 
the Blackman air propeller and 
the Wing circular fan. The 
larger sizes of the Blackman fans 
are said to give 12,000 cubic feet 
of air per minute, and the smaller 
sizes 6,000 cubic feet, per horse- 
power. This estimate is based 
on the supposition that there is 
no resistance against the air save 
from the machine itself. In 
practice there is much friction, 
with resulting loss. The Wing 
disc fan has been much used for 
building ventilation. A four- 
foot fan is stated to move 
500,000 cubic feet of air per hour, using one horse-power. The best fans 
for use are those of large size, since with them there is less noise and wear 
as the result of operation. 

Steam jets have been used for the production of air currents in dis- 
charge ventilating shafts. They are obviously available only where an 
abundance of steam is at hand, and possess no advantages for the ventila- 
tion of barracks. They have been much used on the troop-ships of the 
British service. Their use is confined to extraction, in which they are 
very efficient. The cone of steam is said to set in motion a column of air 
equal to 217 times its own bulk, and some of the larger sizes of apparatus 
will extract 100,000 cubic feet of air per hour. The principle of the ap- 
paratus is very simple, as is shown in the 
accompanying illustration (Fig. 236). 

During the last few years, hydraulic venti- 
lators have been constructed by which, irre- 
spective of atmospheric conditions, the move- 
ment of large quantities of air is accomplished 
by means of water sprayed under high pressure. 
These hydraulic ventilators are said to be much 
used in Germany and to be in operation in some 
of the barracks of that country. For their use 
an abundant supply of water under consider- 
able pressure is necessary. They are said to be 
not costly in operation and to be capable of 
supplying 70,000 cubic feet of air per hour. 
They consist merely of U-shaped pipes con- 
taining spray nozzles. The air is sucked in and passed forward by the 
falling spray, while the water collects in the bottom and is discharged 
through a pipe at the lowest point. Being provided with a spray nozzle 




Fio. 345. Blackman Wheel. 



VENTILATION. 



isf, 




Fio. 236. Steam- Jet Ventilator. 



in each shaft, the apparatus is capable of ventilating either by propulsion 
or aspiration. Certain forms are made for hospitals which, in warm 
weather, may be readily disconnected with the outside air and the air in 
the room passed through them, thus materially 
lowering its temperature. The apparatus 
clearly cannot be used in cold weather and its 
proper operation is said to be interfered with by 
the use of muddy water. It has little value for 
the military service. 

Examination of Ventilation. Since the 
sanitary officer may be required to report upon 
the sufficiency of an existing system of ventila- 
tion, it is important to consider briefly the best 
means for arriving at conclusions in this respect. 
In an occupied room, a determination of the 
proportion of carbon dioxide present is chiefly 
relied upon in deciding as to the efficiency of 
ventilation. The results given by this method, 
as subsequently detailed, are conclusive. Where 
a room is not occupied, the most reliable means 

for determining the sufficiency of ventilation is based upon the fact that 
if in a closed room there be generated any easily recognizable gas, as car- 
bon dioxide, the amount of fresh air entering in a given time may be de- 
termined from the dilution experienced by the gas during this time, not 
only by the exchange of air through the ventilators but also through cracks 
and crevices. For the generation of the carbon dioxide, Petteukofer re- 
commends the burning of stearine candles of 
good quality; such candles giving off about 2.764 
grams, or 1.404 liters, of CO, per gram of stear- 
ine burned. After the combustion of a num- 
ber of these candles in the room, with its ven- 
tilators and doors closed, a chemical analysis of 
the air, taken from the centre of the room by a 
rubber pipe, is made. The ventilators are then 
opened, and two determinations of the carbon 
dioxide made at intervals of thirty minutes. 

Since in the military service the chemical 
analysis of air may not always be practicable, 
recourse may be had to the sense of smell, which, 
under such conditions, will furnish a useful and 
ready means of estimating the sufficiency of ven- 
tilation ; since it has been shown that the amounts 
of mal-odorous organic respirator}' impurities and 
of carbon dioxide present have, within certain 
limits, a definite relation to each other. The re- 
sults obtained are of course not exact and vary to 
some extent with the observer, but they are suffi- 
ciently accurate to be of much practical value. The test is best carried 
out in barracks at the period of greatest respiratory impurity, or shortly be- 
fore reveille. The air-space should be entered directly from the external 




no. 237. Water-Spray Ventila- 
tor. 



486 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

air, or as near so as possible, since the sense of smell is rapidly impaired in 
vitiated air. In a large number of tests made by de Chaumont to deter- 
mine the value of this process, the amount of carbon dioxide waa found 
by chemical analysis at the same time, so that the existing respiratory im- 
purity was accurately known. On dividing his observations into groups, 
the following results were obtained : 





Fresh, or not 
differing sensibly 
from i in- outer air. 


Rather close : 
organic matter be- 
coming perceptible. 


Close; organic 
matter 
disagreeable. 


Very close, organic 
matter offensive and 
oppressive: limit of 
differentiation by 
the sense of smell. 


Mean CO a per 
1,000 vols., re- 
duced to 32' F., 
due to respira- 
tory impurity 
alone. 


0.1943 


0.4132 


0.6708 


0.9054 



From this it is apparent that the odor of organic matter is, on an aver- 
age, imperceptible to the sense of smell when the coincident C0 a , due to 
respiratory impurity, does not exceed 0.1943 per 1,000; and that when it 
reaches 0.9054, the olfactories are no longer able to detect grades of dif- 
ference. In round numbers, 0.2 per 1,000 may therefore be taken as the 
maximum .amount of respiratory impurity as regards carbon dioxide or 
0.6 per 1,000 when added to the carbon dioxide normally present in the 
air admissible in a properly ventilated space. This relation between air 
vitiation and the odor to which it gives rise in an occupied room varies to 
some extent with the temperature and the amount of moisture present; 
under some circumstances the odor due to organic contamination from res- 
piration may not be perceptible until the carbon dioxide exceeds 0.3 parts 
per thousand. By bearing the above figures in mind an approximation of 
the amount of respiratory impurity in a squad-room may be made. 

The sufficiency of ventilation may also be estimated by determining 
the amount of air which passes in and out of a room, its floor space and 
cubic contents, the number of persons to be supplied with fresh air, to- 
gether with the direction and velocity of air currents within the room and 
their effect upon the occupants. If there are distinct and special outlets, 
as by flues provided for the purpose, it will generally suffice to measure 
the amount of the air passing through them, since the quantity of incom- 
ing air will be nearly the same. The quantity of the air passing through 
these outlets is readily found by multiplying the area of the opening, 
stated in square feet, by the velocity of the current of air expressed in 
lineal feet per minute. The product is the delivery of air in cubic feet per 
minute. Since the rapidity of the air current is very variable, depending 
upon wind, difference in temperature and other factors, it is evident that a 
fair average should be made from a number of observations before arriving 
at definite conclusions. The velocity of the air current is determined by 
the anemometer, an instrument so constructed that the velocity of moving 
air is shown by the rate at which it causes a light propeller-like wheel to 
revolve when placed in its course. The number of revolutions are recorded, 
in feet or meters, on a fixed dial with which the wheel is connected by 



VENTILATION. 



487 



an arrangement of cogs, and may be read off at suitable intervals, usually 
of exactly one minute. A catch is placed on the rim of the instrument to 
enable the observer to throw the indicating wheels in or out of gear from 
the fan, for the purpose of taking short observations with accuracy. In 
using the apparatus, care should be taken that the air current strikes the 
fan at right angles with its plane ; the instrument being allowed to run for 
a minute before readings are begun. All these instruments present a cer- 
tain amount of friction, for which a slight correction must be made. 
Since the rate of -movement of air currents passing through an opening 
may vary considerably, it is customary to make live readings for each 
ai>erture, a t different 
points, and accept the 
general average as the 
mean rate of velocity for 
the whole. As already 
noted, in calculating the 
flow of air through an or- 
dinary register a deduc- 
tion of about three-tenths 
must be made for the 
grating. 

Laveran states that 
the inclination of a can- 
dle flame at an angle of 
45, when placed in a 
draft, shows the pres- 
ence of an air current 
having a rate of 0.4 to 0.5 meters per second. This method may be used 
for estimating the velocity of air currents when no more exact means are 
available. 

When direct measurement of incoming and outgoing air currents is 
made the results obtained can be considered as only relatively accurate, 
because of an indefinite but considerable amount of leakage of air around 
doors and windows. 

To determine the direction of air currents within the room, smoke is 
commonly used. This may be produced by burning tobacco, cotton vel- 
vet or a lamp-wick saturated with benzoin. The fumes of nascent am- 
monium chloride are in some respects preferable to smoke, since they are 
of the same temperature as the air. They are produced by pouring a little 
ammonium hydrate into a capsule, and surrounding this with a sheet of 
blotting paper pinned in the shape of a cylinder and saturated with dilute 
hydrochloric acid. Sometimes feather-dust is used to demonstrate air cur- 
rents ; and filaments of floss silk suspended from a rod or from the ceiling 
furnish a delicate test for the same object. Unless an air current be very 
weak it, and its direction, may be detected by the moistened finger, through 
the sensation of cold imparted. 




Fio. 238. Anemometer. 



488 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



EXAMINATION OF AIR. 

For hygienic purposes, in the practical examination of air in the mili- 
tary service, the chief points requiring attention are the manner of collect- 
ing the sample and the estimation of the amount of carbon dioxide pres- 
ent. The latter is done roughly by means of the senses, as already 
described, but much more exactly by chemical procedures. There are / 
other subjects which are sometimes given consideration in connection with 
the examination of air, such as the determination of the oxidizable and 
organic matter, the estimation of carbon monoxide, the presence of ozone, 
the determination of aqueous vapor and an examination of the suspended 
matter and micro-organisms, but these are not of sufficient practical im- 
portance to warrant their being included in a work of this special character. 

All air samples should be collected at a time when the pollution of the 
atmosphere is the greatest, which, in the case of a squad-room, is shortly 
before reveille. For the actual collection of the samples, large rubber- 
stoppered jars, holding from five to ten liters, are the most convenient. 
These are thoroughly cleansed with distilled water before use, inverted to 
run dry, and stoppered a label being attached for stating the current 
temperature and pressure. To fill the jar with the air sample the simplest 
way is to fill it to the brim with distilled water, invert it and allow it 
to drain dry in the room, the air of which it is desired to collect. As 
the water flows out of the jar, air rushes in to take its place. Since water, 
however, may hold a considerable quantity of carbon dioxide in solution, 
and since it is scarcely possible to remove at once all moisture from the 
interior of the collecting jar when the above procedure is employed, many 
chemists prefer to avoid possible sources of error and to pump the air 
sample into the jar by a small syringe, the nozzle of which is passed to the 
bottom of the receptacle so as to displace the contained air upward. At 
the Army Medical School, before collecting the air sample, the student offi- 
cers are required to wash the jar with distilled water, to remove all moist- 
ure from the jar with alcohol, to remove the alcohol with ether, and finally 
to remove the ether by vigorous pumping with the air syringe. After 
filling the vessel, it is at once closed with an air-tight stopper or rubber 
cap ; care being taken that no breath is introduced into the jar before it 
is stoppered. After stoppering, the label is inscribed with the current 
temperature, barometric pressure and the cubical capacity of the jar. 

The most common and generally satisfactory procedure for the estima- 
tion of carbon dioxide is Pettenkofer's alkalimetric method. This depends 
upon the fact that clear lime-water or baryta-water, both of which are 
strongly alkaline media, will readily absorb and neutralize carbon dioxide ; 
the absorption of this weak acid diminishing by so much the alkalinity of 
these media. If, therefore, the degree of alkalinity of either of these solu- 
tions be known both before and after exposure to the carbon dioxide, the 
difference will represent the amount of CO a which has combined with the 
lime or baryta in the formation of a carbonate. The practical details of 
the process are given by Smart as follows : 

An oxalic acid solution is made by dissolving 2.864 gm. of the acid 
in one liter of distilled water, 1 c.c. of this solution being equivalent to 1 



VENTILATION. 489 

mgm. of CO,. A caustic baryta or lime solution, of equivalent strength, is 
then made up. This alkaline solution is stored until required for use in 
small bottles, holding about 60 c.c. each. The latter are then tightly 
corked, weighed, and the weight of each tilled bottle is marked on its label. 
The air sample having been collected in a suitable container, the contents 
of one of the lime or baryta-water bottles is poured into the collected air, 
and the container is closed with a rubber cork or carefully ground stopper. 
The temperatures by the wet and dry bulb thermometers and the barometric 
pressure are observed, and are marked on the jar containing the air sample. 
The air container is then shaken and allowed to stand until the following 
day, if lime is used; or with baryta- water it is shaken and revolved for 
fifteen minutes, at the end of which time the formation of barium carbon- 
ate may be considered to be effected. The quantity of baryta solution in- 
troduced into the air container is obtained by re-corking and weighing the 
bottle in which it was stored, and deducting this weight from the gross 
weight marked on the label. The loss of weight in grams equals the 
number of cubic centimeters of the baryta or lime solution transferred to 
the bottle containing the air sample. This number of cubic centimeters 
must then be deducted from the known capacity of the jar. 

But in order that the experimental results may be susceptible of com- 
parison, it is necessary to express the air volume in the space which it 
would occupy when dry at C. and under a pressure of 760 millimeters 
of mercury. Increased pressure diminishes the volume of air, while in- 
creased temperature expands it ; and the pressure of the watery vapor present 
must also be taken into account. The temperature observations furnish the 
dew point, and through it, from the observations of Regnault, the pressure 
or tension of the aqueous vapor may be obtained. If p represents this 
pressure, t the temperature in Centigrade degrees, b the barometric height 
in millimeters and V the capacity of the jar, minus the number of cubic 
centimeters of baryta solution introduced, the corrected volume will be 
equal to 

V (b-p) 273 

(273+0 760 

If the observations have been made on the Fahrenheit scale and in 
barometric inches, the formula is 

y fc- 491 



29.92 

in which dt is the number of degrees between 32 F. and the observed 
temperature. 

To test the causticity of the baryta water after being shaken with the 
air sample, 20 c.c. are removed from the jar, phenolphthalein solution 
added to it in a beaker and the oxalic acid solution slowly titrated in from 
a burette until the red color is discharged. The loss of alkalinity in cubic 
centimeters equals the number of milligrams of CO, in the 20 c.c. of 
the solution tested; from which the CO, absorbed by the whole of the 
baryta solution may be calculated, equalling the same number of milli- 
grams of CO, in the sample of air collected. The weight of the CO, is 
then converted into volume by multiplying by 0.573, and for purposes of 



490 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

comparison it is calculated into volumes per 10,000 of the corrected air. 
It must be mentioned, however, that the volume of carbon dioxide found 
by this process is not all carbonic impurity, but includes also that naturally 
present in the atmosphere. When the result of a contemporaneous analy- 
sis of the external air has been deducted from it, the remainder will indi- 
cate the carbonic impurity due to imperfect ventilation. 

For general military purposes a convenient method for estimating the 
amount of carbon dioxide present is that proposed by Smith ; for which 
there will be needed six well-stoppered bottles, containing respectively 450, 
350, 300, 250, 200 and 100 c.c., a glass pipette graduated to contain 15 
c.c., and a bottle of perfectly clear and transparent fresh lime-water. The 
bottles should be thoroughly clean and dry. Having pumped the bottles 
full of the air to be examined, by means of a small bulb syringe, 15 c.c. of 
the lime-water are placed in the smallest bottle by means of the pipette ; 
the bottle being tightly stoppered and the whole vigorously shaken. If the 
lime-water presents a turbidity, the amount of carbon dioxide present will 
be at least 16 parts in 10,000. If no turbidity appears, the next sized 
bottle of 200 c.c. capacity is treated in like manner. Turbidity in this 
would indicate 12 parts of carbon dioxide in the ten thousand. If this 
remains clear, but turbidity is produced in the 250 c.c. bottle, it marks 
about 10 parts per 10,000. The 300 c.c. bottle indicates 8 parts, the 
one of 350 shows 7 parts and the one of 450 less than 6 parts per 10,000. 
To judge of the turbidity, a small piece of paper is marked with a cross in 
lead pencil, and gummed with its face to the side of the bottle on the 
lower part. When the water becomes turbid, the cross will be invisible 
when looked at through the water. This test is so readily carried out as 
to be specially adapted to the needs of the military sanitarian. 



CHAPTER XL 

HEATING AND LIGHTING. 

i 

I. 

HEATING. 

General Considerations. Heat is required to maintain the air of 
barracks at a suitable temperature, to make good the loss of heat due to 
its radiation and conduction from windows and walls, and to supply 
warjnth to the air required for ventilation. The amount of heat necessary 
for these various purposes will depend largely upon the outside tempera- 
ture, the construction of the building and its exposure, and the supply 
of air needed for the maintenance of proper ventilation. The warming of 
barracks is not satisfactorily accomplished unless the temperature is suffi- 
cient and is uniform for time and space ; the physical properties of the air, 
especially its moisture, are maintained; the atmosphere is not vitiated by 
the products of combustion or by dust ; and unless the heat contributes to 
the accomplishment of ventilation. In addition, the apparatus for the 
generation and distribution of heat should be simple in construction, eco- 
nomical of fuel and labor in its operation, and be free from the dangers of 
fire or explosion. 

The heat evolved in the combustion of fuel is given off to surrounding 
bodies by conduction, by radiation and by convection. Conducted heat 
passes from one particle of matter when they touch, or are separated only 
by insensible distances. Heat is conducted through all solids, which vary 
greatly in their conductivity, but is transmitted only to a very limited de- 
gree by liquids and gases. Thus the conducting power of copper in re- 
spect to heat is given as 20,150 times greater than that of air, and 554.1 
times greater than that of water. . Bodies which are good conductors rap- 
idly give off then* heat to the surrounding air or to anything in contact 
with them, and in like manner, if colder, they withdraw heat from other 
bodiee. 

Radiation is not only the most common but also the most wasteful of 
the ways by which heat is distributed. Radiated heat is propagated from 
its source in straight lines and with equal intensity ; the effect decreasing 
according to the square of the distance. Radiant heat is reflected like 
light from solid bodies, but some of the heat is absorbed ; the amounts re- 
flected and absorbed being in inverse proportion to each other, and largely 
dependent upon the surface, color and nature of the object, as well as upon 
the difference of temperature between the receiving and radiating bodies. 
The convection of heat is that mode by which heat is chiefly propagated 
in liquids and gases, and is dependent on the characteristic of those bodies 
by which such portions of them as have become heated expand and rise, 



492 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

their place being at once taken by the colder parts. A species of circula- 
tion is thus established and the whole mass of liquid or gas is soon 
warmed. Every person in a room causes convection currents by the heat 
conducted to the air in contact with his skin or clothing; while the air of 
a heated room, from a similar cause, is in a state of active movement. 
The convection currents produced by fires, and by the human body in an 
atmosphere colder than itself, not only carry off some heat but also provide 
the body with a supply of fresh air. When the temperature of the sur- 
rounding air is nearly that of the body, this natural replacement of air does 
not occur ; requiring the production of artificial air-currents for comfort. 
An idea of the relative efficiency of radiation and convection, in the accom- 
plishment of heating, may be gained by placing the hand alongside a lamp 
flame and then above it; this simple test readily showing that far less 
heat is lost by radiation than is carried away by ascending air-currents. 
This explains the deficient heating qualities of the ordinary open fireplace ; 
since only radiated heat is utilized by this means, while the air heated by 
the fire passes up through the chimney and escapes from the building. 
The sensations produced by radiated and convected heat are also quite 
different; radiant heat warming only the side exposed to the source of 
heat, while the air warmed by convected heat has an equal effect on all 
sides. 

The heating of a room is technically said to be effected by direct radi- 
ation, by indirect radiation, by direct-indirect radiation, or by combina- 
tions of these methods. In this sense, direct radiation means that the 
heating surfaces are placed in the room to be warmed and are not con- 
nected with the air supply, so that the incoming air is not warmed. This 
method is clearly not satisfactory. Indirect radiation means that the room 
is heated by air which has been warmed by being brought into contact 
with heated surfaces placed in some other room, usually in the basement 
or cellar. Direct-indirect radiation means that the heating surfaces are in 
the room to be warmed, and have outside fresh air brought around them to 
be raised to the desired temperature. At present, in our new barracks, 
heating by direct-indirect radiation is the method usually employed. 
Whatever be the special method of heating adopted, it is obviously desir- 
able that the warming of air in a room should be accomplished at its cold- 
est point. 

In practice, the problems of ventilation are very closely connected with 
those of heating ; since heat is one of the important agents in accomplish- 
ing ventilation, and the distribution of heat is commonly dependent upon 
the distribution of heated air or water. All waste heat should be utilized 
in securing a proper renewal of air ; and thus, even in hot weather, a little 
ingenuity may convert heat, generally so annoying, into a valuable power 
for cooling down the air of a building. The combined action of heat and 
air-currents is of much importance in maintaining the proper dryness of 
habitations. 

The unit of measure of heat commonly employed in this country is 
known as the British heat unit, and is that quantity required to raise one 
pound of water one degree Fahrenheit ; another unit of measure is the 
Calorie, representing the amount of heat required to raise one kilogram of 
water one degree Centigrade. It is sometimes convenient, in ventilation 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



and heating problems, to express the amount of heat in terms of force. 
When so expressed, the British thermal unit is equal to 772 foot-pounde 
of force, and the Calorie is equal to 423.985 kilogram-meters; each kilo- 
gram-meter being equal to 7.2 foot-pounds and one Calorie being equal to 
3.968 Fahrenheit units. The calorific power of any combustible is repre- 
sented by the number of heat units (or Calories) which one pound (or kilo- 
gram) is capable of developing on being burned. Assuming that the 
volume of air is constant, the following table from Billings shows the 
number of thermal units required to heat a given volume of dry air a cer- 
tain number of degrees Fahrenheit, commencing at 32 F. 



Cubic feet 


HEATED. 


1. 


2. 


3. 


4". 


5. 


6. 


7. 


8. 


9. 


100 


1.92 
8.84 
5.76 
7.68 
9.60 
11.52 
18.44 

15.36* 

17.28 


8.84 
7.68 
11.52 
15.86 
19.20 
23.00 
26.88 
80.72 
84.56 


5.76 
11.52 
17.28 
23.04 
28.80 
34.56 
40.32 
46.08 
51.84 


7.68 
15.36 
23.04 
30.72 
88.40 
46.08 
53.76 
61.44 
69.12 


9.60 
19.20 
28.80 
38.40 
48.00 
57.60 
67.20 
76.80 
86.40 


11.52 
23.04 
84.56 
46.08 
57.60 
69.12 
80.64 
92.16 
103.68 


13.44 
26.88 
40.32 
53.76 
67.20 
80.64 
94.08 
107.52 
120.96 


15.86 
30.72 
46.08 
61.44 
76.80 
92.16 
107.52 
L 23.88 
138.24 


17.2S 
34.56 
51.84 
69.12 
86.40 
103.68 
120.96 
i::^-Jl 
155.52 


200 


800 


400 


500 


600 


700 


800 


900 





From this table it is easy to calculate the amount of heat in thermal 
units required to raise the temperature of any given volume of air through 
any number of degrees of temperature. 

The freer the ventilation, the greater the amount of heat which natur- 
ally must be supplied to maintain the desired degree of warmth. A com- 
mon method of determining the number of heat units required for ventila- 
tion consists in multiplying the number of cubic feet of air required during 
a given time by the difference in temperature between the warm and out- 
side air, and then. dividing by 55. This last number is used as a divisor, 
since in absorbing one heat unit 55 cubic feet of air will be warmed 1 
F. ; and thus this quantity of air may be considered as equivalent to a pound 
of water as far as the transmission of heat is concerned. The heat capable 
of being stored or retained in a substance is called its specific heat, and this 
quality of holding heat becomes of material importance in connection with 
the warming of buildings. This specific heat is usually described as being 
the units required to raise the temperature of one pound of the substance 
under consideration through 1 F. Thus one pound of water requires one 
British thermal unit to raise its temperature 1 F. ; a pound of steam re- 
quires 0.480 of a thermal unit; a pound of expanding air requires 0.238 ; 
and air having a constant volume requires 0.169. Weight for weight, 
water is thus seen to absorb more heat from the same rise of temperature 
than any other substance ; and hence the economy in the use of water as a 
carrier of heat, as compared with air, is evident. 

The loss of heat from buildings, irrespective of that naturally depend- 
ing on ventilation, is often very great and should properly be anticipated 
in the establishment of heating arrangements. The determination in ad- 
vance of the loss of heat through the walls and windows of any given 



494 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

building or room is, however, a problem practically impossible of theoretical 
solution. Clearly no exact figures or rules can be given on this point ; for 
the loss of heat from a barrack depends, among other factors, upon the 
kind of material used in its construction ; the thickness of the walls, and 
whether they are single or double ; the quality of the workmanship ; the 
number and size of windows ; and the orientation of the building and its 
exposure to prevailing winds. Reliable conclusions as to the probable loss 
of heat can be arrived at only by the proper consideration of all the factors 
in the case, fortified by knowledge born of long experience. In all build- 
ings there is a considerable loss of heat from the crevices around windows 
and doors, and in limiting loss in this manner weather-strips should always 
be used on barracks in cold climates. These weather-strips generally consist 
of slips of metal embracing a narrow band of rubber ; but sometimes strips 
of wood bordered with closely woven felt are used. These strips are nailed 
on all sides of the window-frame, making tight joints against the sashes. 
In bitter cold weather, when a high wind fairly blows the heated air out 
of barracks, these contrivances prevent such action to so great an extent 
that rooms otherwise uninhabitable become warm and comfortable. Refer- 
ence has already been made to the great diminution in the loss of heat 
which results from the use of double window sashes. 

Although a matter of much importance, the t equable distribution of 
heat through a closed space, together with the maintenance of a proper 
temperature over considerable periods, is not readily accomplished. This 
is particularly the case when the external temperature is constantly vary- 
ing, the barracks are of a poor construction, the rooms have high ceilings 
and stoves or open fireplaces are used. Heating by hot-air furnaces gives 
better results ; but the entering warm air tends to rise, and thus forms a 
series of layers of air increasing in temperature toward the ceiling. With 
poor floors, this upward movement of heated air causes a great difference 
in the temperature at the floor and ceiling; and it has already been men- 
tioned that at one northern station a variation of 30 F. was noted between 
the temperature taken at the floor level and at a point six feet above it. 
Under such conditions the feet and legs are kept constantly cold by chill- 
ing air-currents. Undoubtedly the best plan of heating a squad-room so 
as to secure equability of temperature is by the direct-indirect method; 
the radiators being placed around the room under the windows, which are 
the points of greatest diathermancy. It is especially important that hos- 
pitals and guard-houses be evenly heated throughout, since it is plain that 
patients or prisoners will rarely be able to leave their beds or cells to get 
nearer to the sources of warmth. An equable temperature extending over 
considerable periods, however, is obviously unnecessary in places used inter- 
mittently, as drill halls. Such places are generally warmed up immediately 
before they are used, and the fires subsequently allowed to die down. There 
is some economy in this; but the saving is not so great as at first thought 
might be supposed, from the necessity of overcoming the chilling which 
takes place between periods of heating. In this connection it is interesting 
to note that in the French army, on account of the scanty supply of fuel 
allowed, certain fires are not maintained in barracks throughout the night, 
but are carefully extinguished except in the coldest weather. 

The temperature of barracks is best maintained at 66-68 F. Billings 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 495 

suggests a temperature of 70 F. ; but this is slightly higher than is neces- 
sary for the comfort of troops and is more applicable to hospitals. The 
temperature in gymnasia and drill-halls need not be above 45 F. Sol- 
diers will not stay in barracks any longer than necessary if these be not 
sufficiently heated, but will seek resorts where there is plenty of warmth 
and such resorts, if outside the garrison, may not be elevating in their in- 
fluences. Guard-houses require to be particularly well heated, so that sol- 
diers returning from tours of sentry duty may be able quickly to dry out 
their wet garments and warm their chilled members. On the other hand, 
over-heating of squad-rooms is always to be avoided. Soldiers are prone to 
allow this, particularly colored troops, and when coming from over-heated 
rooms into the cold outside air they are liable to become chilled, with re- 
sulting congestive disturbances. Hence the temperature of the squad-room 
should be regulated by the thermometer and not by the preferences of its 
inmates; and constant oversight, in this respect, should be had by non- 
commissioned officers. Kitchens are particularly apt to become over- 
heated, and the men employed therein are exposed to frequent and extreme 
changes of temperature. To limit over-heating, a hood should always be 
constructed over the range, having a ventilating flue discharging directly 
into the open air and thus carrying away the heat. This arrangement also 
serves an excellent purpose in getting rid of cooking odors, without their 
being carried on outgoing air-currents to be distributed all over the build- 
ing. Where such an arrangement is used, the flow of air is directed from 
the building into the kitchen instead of out of it. 

Air usually contains a considerable amount of moisture; its capacity 
for taking up such moisture increasing as its temperature is elevated. 
Coulier states that a cubic meter of air, under a pressure of 760 milli- 
meters of mercury, is saturated with watery vapor at 10 C. when holding 
in suspension 9.7 grams of water; while at 25 C. it would require 22.5 
grams to effect saturation. Hence cold outside air which has been warmed 
and admitted into barracks is deficient in moisture, and this must be arti- 
ficially supplied. Shoidd this be not done, the undue dryness of the air 
causes harshness of the skin, irritation of the air passages, thirst and dry- 
ness of the throat and fauces. With such air there also appears to be a 
tendency toward the occurrence of tonsillitis. That all these conditions are 
entirely due to over-dryness of the air there is some doubt ; probably the 
symptoms of irritation of the respiratory tract are dependent more upon 
the fine dust, largely composed of minute fragments of dry wood ground 
from the floor by the feet of passers, which acts mechanically as an irritant 
to the mucous membranes, and which is much less liable to be taken up 
by moist air. It is generally accepted that where a considerable number 
of persons are living together, the amount of moisture directly provided 
should be about fifty per cent., since the human body itself gives off much 
watery vapor. De Chaumont recommends, for squad-rooms, that the dif- 
ference between the readings of the wet and dry-bulb thermometers should 
not be less than four nor more than five degrees Fahrenheit. To supply 
the necessary moisture, with steam-heat a little watery vapor may be 
allowed to escape into the air of the room. Furnaces are apt to deliver 
their hot air in too dry a state, and the condition of their evaporating pans, 
as to a supply of water, should be closely attended to. Where heating 



496 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

stoves are used, a flat dish of water is usually set upon them ; but no pro- 
vision of this character is made in the barrack stoves of the models chiefly 
furnished in our service. Too great moisture in the air of a heated room 
is productive of much discomfort, since it interferes with the proper re- 
moval of body moisture by respiration and cutaneous evaporation. 

Fuel. The production of heat for the purpose of warming and venti- 
lating buildings is commonly effected by the combustion of fuel. The 
chief constituents of fuel are carbon and hydrogen, with various chemical 
combinations of these two elements, while their principal products of com- 
bustion are CO, and H a O. The amount of heat produced in the combus- 
tion of a fuel is approximately the sum of the quantities of heat which the 
hydrogen and carbon contained in it would produce separately by their com- 
bustion. When hydrogen and oxygen exist in a compound in the proper 
proportion to form water, these constituents have no effect on the total 
heat of combustion, and it is only the surplus of hydrogen above that 
which is required by the oxygen which is taken into account. The heat 
of combustion for one pound of pure carbon is given by Notter and Firth 
as 14,500 British heat units, and that of one pound of pure hydrogen as 
62,032. From these principles and data is deduced the following general 
formula for the total heat of combustion of any compound, of which the 
principal constituents, carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, are known: 

h= 14,500 jC + 4.28 (H - ) } 

in which h is the total heat of one pound of the compound in British 
thermal units ; C, H and O are the fractions of one pound of the compound 
consisting respectively of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, while 4.28 is a 
constant deduced from the ratio of 14,500 to 62,032. 

To calculate the quantity of air required for the combustion of any 
given fuel, the following formula is used : 

12C+36(H-) 

This is based on the fact that 72 parts by weight of air represent 16 of 
oxygen. The weight of air theoretically necessary is therefore 12 times 
that of the carbon -|- 36 times that of the hydrogen, less f that of any 
oxygen which may be present in the fuel itself. If the unit employed be 
one pound, the volume of air at 32 F. may be found by multiplying the 
weight of air, obtained by the formula, by 12.844, this being the volume 
in cubic feet which one pound of air occupies at that temperature. In 
actual practice, half as much again to twice this amount of air is found to 
be necessary. 

In the United States service, the cord of merchantable oak wood is the 
standard upon which all issues of fuel are based ; a" scale of equivalents, 
determined by comparative efficiency in the evaporation of a given weight 
of water, being published from time to time. At present, the heating 
equivalents of one cord of oak wood are laid down as follows : 

Yellow pine U cords. 

White pine, poplar or cottonwood 1* 

Spruce or birch lj " 

Charcoal 1,706 pounds. 

Coke 1,707 

Anthracite coal 1,700 

Bituminous coal from 1,500 to nearly 4,000 " 

Lignite from 2,500 to 8,000 " 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 497 

A large variety of bituminous coals are purchased for issue, and these differ 
very greatly in their heating qualities. Usually a coal mined nearest to a 
garrison is the one employed. Charcoal was issued to troops in Cuba, Imt 
its cost was so great that coal and wood were substituted. Coke is little 
used. 

For fixing the allowance of fuel for heating purposes, the United States 
is divided into several zones. Below the 36th degree of latitude, each 
non-commissioned officer and private is entitled monthly to one-twelfth of 
a cord of oak wood or its heating equivalent, during the period May 1 to 
August 31; and to one-sixth of a cord from September 1 to April 30. 
Between the 36th and 43d degrees of latitude the fuel allowance of the 
soldier is increased by one twenty-fourth of a cord monthly, from Septem- 
ber 1 to April 30 ; while north of the 43d parallel the allowance is in- 
creased by one-eighteenth. To provide for the needs of particularly cold 
{Kjsts, it is ordered that in stations situated between the 36th and 43d de- 
grees of latitude, where the mean temperature during twenty days of any 
calendar month is not above 20 F., an increase in the allowance of fuel of 
one-third instead of one-fourth, as given above, is authorized. If the 
temperature is not above 10 F. for twenty days in any calendar month, an 
increase of one-half will be allowed, whatever be the latitude of the place. 
Under all circumstances', a company is allowed sufficient fuel for the pro- 
per cooking of its food. Fuel is regarded as public property and not as an 
allowance, and any unused portion of such as may have been issued to 
troops is required to be turned back to the quartermaster. 

Regulations state that the cheapest fuel at the place of issue will, all 
things being considered, be furnished to troops. This may at times work 
no great harm; but in very cold climates the restriction of a garrison to 
fuel of an inferior quality, merely because it is slightly cheaper, may be a 
serious hardship. For troops in the northwest to be required to burn the 
inferior grades of bituminous coal and lignite mined in the vicinity is un- 
desirable. Such coal, as that supplied at Fort Assiniboine, gives off 
comparatively little heat and burns out quickly. It leaves a large amount 
of refuse ; often in the nature of slag which has been melted down by the 
heat and is not readily removed. The ashes require to be frequently 
shaken out of the grate, and the ash-pit emptied, with resulting dust. 
Further, the fuel contains much sulphur; and the fumes of sulphur dioxide 
which escape into the room, particularly when the stoves are imperfect or 
hot ashes are being removed, are often highly irritating to the respiratory 
tract. The smoke produced by coal of this character is very dense, and 
the chimneys require frequent cleansing of soot to ensure their proper 
operation. Fires maintained by such fuel require constant attention and 
imply greater labor of administration ; since much more fuel is required to 
produce a given result, and in the combustion of such coal an excessive 
proportion of ashes remains to be removed. All things considered, it may 
fairly be questioned whefcher the use of the lignites and the lower grades 
of bituminous coal results ultimately in much greater economy than if an- 
thracite were issued ; this being undoubtedly the fuel most adapted to the 
needs of- the military service. The latter coal is cleanly and easy to 
handle, and contains a high proportion of heat latent in a given weight. 
Little smoke or fumes of sulphur are given off, and the resulting ash is 
32 



498 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

comparatively small in quantity. White-ash Lehigh stove-coal gives the 
l)est results in stoves and small furnaces ; for large furnaces a mixture of 
stove and .small egg-coal is best employed, since the fire can be better 
regulated and controlled by its use. 

Wood is still used as fuel at certain stations. Its heating power varies 
with the amount of moisture which it contains. Green wood may con- 
tain as much as forty-five per cent, of moisture, and part of the heat pro- 
duced by combustion is lost in the vaporization of the latter. Well-dried 
wood contains but fifteen to twenty per cent, of water ; and when wood of 
this character is used, fires are readily started, the fuel is consumed rapidly 
and much heat is given off in a short space of time. A practical drawback 
to the use of wood, therefore, consists in the great difficulty of maintaining 
an even temperature in rooms heated by its combustion. Wood soon burns 
out, the supply of fuel has to be frequently renewed, especially with pine 
or other soft wood, and squad-rooms heated in this manner are liable to 
become very cold at night during severe weather. 

As already intimated, the total heat given out during the combustion 
of various kinds of fuel varies greatly, and this is a practical point which 
should be given consideration in connection with heating arrangements. 
Further, the heat which can be evolved from different specimens of the 
same class of fuel varies so greatly that a definite knowledge of the heat- 
ing value of the special kind to be used should be had before any plans for 
the heating of barracks have been matured. Estimates which have been 
made of the heating value of various fuels are as follows : 

P.,.., Fuel value of one 

pound. Calories. 

Charcoal 8,430 

Coke 3,467 

Anthracite 4,097 

Bituminous coal From 1,804 to 4,643 

Lignite 2,990 

Dry wood 1,880 

Petroleum 5,538 

The choice of a fuel of course has a close relation to the nature of the 
heating apparatus available, and vice versa. This would seem so evident 
as scarcely to require mention; yet at Fort Assiniboine, for instance, 
after the abandonment of anthracite coal for the local bituminous supply, 
the stoves intended for the combustion of hard coal were largely left in 
use and naturally proved of little value for purposes of heating with the 
new fuel. 

While the issue of fuel in our service depends upon the number of in- 
dividuals in an organization, in the British army a more rational method 
is employed and the fuel allowance is based upon the size of the space to 
be heated, irrespective of the number of its occupants. At present, in that 
service, 40 pounds of hard coal are allowed daily for the heating of 7,200 
cubic feet. If the space to be heated is of less size than this, a reduction 
is made ; but since the consumption of fuel in small spaces is proportion- 
ately greater, the fuel allowance is not reduced quite to the same extent. 
When troops are in huts, the above allowance of fuel is increased by one- 
third ; and special issues of fuel may be authorized by commanding officers 
during cool or damp days in summer. The allowance of fuel in the French 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 499 

army is based, like our own, primarily upon temperature as depending 
upon latitude the country being divided for the purpose into five zones. 
The allowance is made per man and not per cubic space. Usually seven 
kilograms of wood are allowed daily for each authorized stove ; but supple- 
mentary issues of fuel are authorized during periods of great cold. As in 
our own service, no official allowance of fuel is laid down for hospitals in 
the French or British army, but they are heated according to existing cir- 
cumstances so as to maintain a constant temperature of about 65 F. 

The allowance of fuel authorized in our service is often insufficient for 
the proper heating of barracks at northern stations, though adequate for 
those further south. Clearly an allowance of fuel which might be suffi- 
cient for the heating of a well-built barrack warmed by steam-heat, might 
be quite insufficient to maintain a proper temperature throughout an old, 
poorly constructed building, heated by stoves of rapid combustion. Where 
squad-rooms are smaller and more numerous, and stoves are used, the loss 
of heat is proportionately greater and the deficiency in fuel rendered even 
more apparent. To secure the best results with respect to heating, it 
would seem that each barrack in a post should be considered separately, 
and the amount of fuel required for its proper warming should l>e fixed by 
the commanding officer. In respect to fuel, as in some other matters, a 
greater elasticity of the regulations governing its issue would be of advan- 
tage. With regard to officers, present regulations concerning the purchase 
of fuel by them are not equitable. A limited supply only, graded accord- 
ing to the rank of the officer, can be purchased at the fixed government 
rates ; any excess being charged for at full contract prices. For very cold 
stations and for officers of lower rank the official allowances are in practice 
quite insufficient ; and thus junior officers serving in northern stations are 
doubly placed at a financial disadvantage as compared with those stationed 
in warmer localities. As a matter of justice an officer serving anywhere, 
irrespective of rank, should l>e allowed to purchase at fixed rates such fuel 
as he might certify was required for his own use, as is at present allowed 
in the case of mineral oil, commissary stores and clothing. 

LOCAL HEATING. 

Barracks are warmed either locally or by heat distributed from some 
central point. By the first method, heat is furnished by the combustion of 
fuel in the room itself, either in tire-places or in stoves. The heating is 
obviously very unequal, and the temperature throughout a barrack building 
warmed in this manner usually varies greatly. The system also has very 
many other defects, which are discussed subsequently. In the French 
army the local method of heating is the only one employed at most sta- 
tions, since the allowance of fuel is so small as to be quite insufficient 
for the heating of an entire barrack building, and hence only certain por- 
tions of it are warmed. Clearly such motives of economy need not stand 
in the way of the general heating of barracks in our service, and local 
heating should be used only under such special conditions as may render it 
more desirable or practicable. 

Open Fire-Places. The use of ordinary open fires and grates is a 



600 THEOEY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

most costly and imperfect method of heating, since these practically give 
out only radiant heat though it must be understood that objects warmed 
by radiant heat do, in turn, themselves convey heat to the layers of air 
with which they come in contact. It has been shown by Morin and 
others that with ordinary open fiies but six per cent, of the total heat la- 
tent in wood is secured for the warming of an apartment the rest of the 
heat being carried up the chimney or escaping as unconsumed carbon. 
Under the same conditions, coke yields to warming purposes but twelve 
per cent, of its theoretical fuel efficency, and coal about thirteen per cent. 
The chief sanitary advantages of open fire-places are found in the fact that 
ordinarily the air of the room heated by their use is not contaminated by 
the products of combustion, nor is it scorched or dried to any extent. 
Ventilation is also very free, so much so as at times to present serious 
disadvantages since immense quantities of air, far greater in amount than 
is required for the combustion of the fuel, are drawn up the chimney, 
which acts as a heat-extraction shaft. Notter and Firth state that from 
20,000 to 40,000 cubic feet of air, or more, may thus be removed in the 
course of an hour by an ordinary fire-place the quantity varying with the 
difference between the internal and external temperatures, the size and height 
of the chimney and the size of the fire itself. To replace this loss of air it 
is evident that an equal quantity must be drawn into the room. If the 
incoming air were warm, the liberal ventilation thus assured would be ex- 
cellent; but unfortunately this is usually cold, and finds entrance through 
crevices around the doors and windows or in the floor. This gives rise 
to numerous knife-like drafts of a particularly chilling character, which 
increase in intensity with the degree of outside cold and the size of the 
fire maintained. The entering air is constantly moving toward the chim- 
ney shaft, and thus causes cold currents on the backs and legs of persons 
who may be sitting before the fire, and who may at the same time be un- 
comfortably warm on the portions of the body directly exposed to the 
radiated heat. When efforts are made for the diminution of this entering 
air, down-drafts are almost certain to be created in the chimney; driv- 
ing smoke and gases into the room and forcing the admission of the neces- 
sary amount of cold air as the lesser of the two evils. Though this fault 
may be partially controlled by regulating the chimney current with a dam- 
per, it is nevertheless clear that with ordinary open fires it is impossible 
to warm an apartment equally, even under the best of circumstances. A 
minor advantage of open fires is the cheerful blaze which they afford ; but 
with fuel of poor character the fact that the fire is not enclosed renders the 
possibility of accidental conflagration much greater. 

In the construction of open fire-places, it is evident that the materials 
employed should be poor conductors but excellent radiators of heat. The 
chimney flue should be as small as possible, the fuel surface should be 
concentrated and set well forward, the side walls of the fire-place should 
join the back at an angle of 45, so as to throw as many heat-rays as pos- 
sible into the room, and for the same reason the top should be inclined 
forward from the back at an angle of about 55. There should also be a 
damper in the chimney, so as to limit the amount of hot air passing up it 
and consequently the entrance of cold air into the room from outside. To 
get the best results, Morin recommends that the temperature in the chim- 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 501 

ney of a fire-place be maintained at least 80 F. above that of the open 
air, that smoke should not issue from the chimney at a rate greater than 
ten feet per second, and that the outlet of the smoke-flue should have an 
area one-half that of the flue just above the fire-place. 

Ordinary open fire-places are obviously not satisfactory for the heating 
of barracks ; but for winter quarters or where troops are in huts, and no 
special facilities for heating are provided, as was frequently the case during 
the Civil War, they may readily be improvised and will prove of much ser- 
vice under such conditions. 

To minimize the defects of the ordinary open fire-place, as just de- 
scribed, certain modifications of structure have been proposed by which a 
portion of the escaping heat is utilized in warming the entering air. The 
general principle of these changes, as exemplified in the Galton grate, is 
shown in Fig. 215. Briefly, the modifications consist in carrying the heat 
and smoke from the fire through a chimney passing through an air-cham- 
ber, built behind and over the fire-place. This air-chamber opens at its 
lower part into the external air, and from its higher part into the room by 
an air-shaft which discharges near the ceiling. The air from outside, on 
entering this chamber, becomes warmed by passing over the heated back 
of the fire-place and smoke-flue, and then passes on to enter the room. 
The movement of the Air after entering the room is shown in the illustra- 
tion just mentioned. It is stated that a ventilating fire-place of this gen- 
eral pattern is capable of utilizing for purposes of warmth about thirty-five 
per cent, of the available heat in the fuel consumed, or about three times as 
much as with fire-places of the old model. The Joly fire-place, Jackson 
grate and Griffith grate are all slight modifications of the Galton grate just 
referred to. Ventilating tire-places have been used to some extent in our 
service ; chiefly in hospitals, and particularly in the form of the Jackson 
grate. They work very successfully in climates where the temperature 
does not go much below the freezing point ; but in zero weather they are 
unable properly to heat the entering air and the rooms become unbearably 
cold. The French use them for the heating of barracks at warmer stations, 
and in the British service their use is the general rule in home garrisons. 
One Galton grate is the usual allowance, in the British service, to a room 
containing twelve men or a fraction of that number ; the hot-air duct pro- 
vided generally having a clear area of one square inch to each 120 cubic 
feet of room space. 

When ventilating fire-places are used under the conditions of climate 
to which they are suited, they give excellent ventilation without drafts, 
and, as compared with ordinary fire-places, reduce the amount of air as- 
pirated from a room, from the lowering of the temperature in the chim- 
ney which is thus brought about. The temperature of the room, from the 
movements of the entering warm air, is rendered quite equable, and smok- 
ing of the chimneys is infrequent. If desired, one room over another may 
be heated from a single fire-place on the lower floor, on the principle seen 
in the well-known "Baltimore heater." In ventilating fire-places, the 
chamber for the warming of entering air should l)e large, and, as shown in 
the accompanying illustration of the Jackson grate, may be advantageously 
fluted to increase the heating surface as much as possible. Provision 
should be made by which this air-chamber can be cleaned out as desired. 



502 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 239. Jackson's Ventilating Grate, Back 
View. The outer casing is cut away to show 
space and surface for warming the incom- 
ing air. 



The exact manner of admitting the air depends on local conditions, as does 
also the size of the air-shaft. It is important that the entering air should 
not pass over any iron surface which may be raised to a red heat, on ac- 
count of the bad odor which results from scorching of the minute par- 
ticles of dust constantly present ^in the 
atmosphere, and from the possibility of 
the passage of carbon monoxide through 
the heated metal, or its production 
from the carbon dioxide of the air 
through contact with a red-hot surface. 
The chimney of the fire-place should 
be furnished with a damper, so that its 
discharge may be modified in cold 
weather. Such fire-places work best 
when the windows and doors of the 
room are closed ; the volume of warmed 
air yielded by them varies, to some ex- 
tent, with the direction of the wind. 

Since architects in this country are 
not accustomed to put this mode of 
heating in their plans, its installment after erection of the building implies 
the demolition of chimneys as already constructed. 

Stoves. Like open fire-places, stoves may be simple heaters or may 
be so constructed as to contribute to the ventilation of the spaces they are 
intended to warm. 

In stoves of the simplest construction the fire is surrounded directly 
by the surface to be heated, which, placed unprotected in the room, ra- 
diates heat and warms the air by direct contact. The air necessary for 
combustion of the contained fuel is 
drawn directly from the room, while 
the smoke is conducted away to 
the chimney. No special style of 
stove is regulation in our service, 
and a large number of patterns are 
now in use ; the special variety re- 
quested by the quartermaster of a 
post being usually approved for is- 
sue. Where the matter of selec- 
tion is left to the supply depart- 
ment, however, the "Pluto" and 
" Triumph " models are usually fur- 
nished ; these being powerful heat- 
ers of a simple pattern very suitable 
for use in squad-rooms. These 
stoves can be adapted to either hard 
or soft coal and possess many points 
of merit. Their greatest disadvan- 
tage consists in the absence of any 
provision by which the necessary 
moisture can be imparted to the F ,o. 240.-Thepiuto Barrack stove. 




HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



heated air. This is a point which might easily be remedied by some 
simple improvised arrangement, but in practice it rarely is. Smaller stoves 
are generally issued for officers and quarters. When anthracite coal is 
used, these smaller stoves are generally self-feeders; the tire being automa- 
tically fed from a coal magazine above, instead from the side by a tire-door, 
and thus reducing the amount of attention required. Wood stoves are 
still used at some western stations as at Fort Yellowstone where fuel of 
this sort is abundant and coal can scarcely be supplied on account of the 
great cost of its transportation. A number of varieties of wood stoves, 
like those for coal, are supplied for issue. 

The official allowance of stoves for a company is two large stoves for 
the squad-room, one large stove in each mess and day room, and one small 
stove for each of the two rooms for non-commissioned officers. For each 
six civilian employees, or for each room occupied 
by them as quarters, one heating-stove is allowed. 
With the old company strength of sixty men, it 
was entirely a question of climate and barrack 
construction as to whether the above allowance 
was sufficient. Under some circumstances the 
authorized allowance of stoves was certainly in- 
adequate, but in practice there was usually no diffi- 
culty in obtaining the number required. With 
the enlargement in the company strength to about 
double its former number, the official allowance 
should be proportionately increased. When stoves 
are used in officers' quarters there is rarely any 
trouble in obtaining the number desired ; though 
this, in cold climates, is almost invariably much 
in excess of the official allowance. 

Stoves are economical in fuel in proportion 
to the heat evolved for warming, and the quantity 
of heat which passes up the chimney is rela- 
tively small. Ordinarily, "stoves of rapid combus- 
tion utilize about 60 to 65 per cent, of the heat available in the fuel, and 
those of slow combustion utilize from 80 to 90 per cent. When the 
draft is too free, considerable wastage of fuel results; Gautier having 
shown that the heat available for warming, with different kinds of fuel, is 
nearly twice as great when only the amount of air actually required for 
combustion is admitted to the stove as when an amount of ah* twice as 
large as is necessary is allowed to pass through the fire. Where the stove- 
pipe is carried some distance across a squad-room, much of the heat which 
would otherwise escape with the products of combustion is dissipated before 
arrival at the chimney and is thus economized. To get the maximum 
effect of heating, a stove should have as much exposed surface as is possible 
without diminishing its heating capacity. The relative heating surface 
needed for any given space warmed by a stove may be approximately de- 
termined from data given by Pe"clet, who found that one square foot of 
sheet iron, under ordinary conditions, freely exposed to the air, will yield 
about 200 heat units per hour; a square foot of cast-iron, 500; and bricks 
or tiles, two-fifths of an inch thick, 180 heat units supposing the fuel to 




FIG. 341. The "Triumph' 
Barrack Stove. 



504 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

be consumed in sucli a manner as to yield about 80 per cent, of its theoret- 
ical heating power. 

The materials of which stoves are made are cast-iron, sheet-iron, brick 
or tiles. When fuel is rapidly burned in a stove, so as to evolve in a short 
space of time the entire amount of heat it is capable of affording, the tem- 
perature produced is often greater than required. Iron, and especially cast- 
iron, which conducts and radiates heat rapidly, is therefore not an appro- 
priate material for maintaining a uniform temperature since fires in such 
stoves require constant attention to maintain regularity of operation. Clay, 
in the form of brick or tile, is far preferable ; since it parts with its heat 
slowly and gradually, and the surrounding air is maintained at a more even 
temperature. Hence the best results are obtained by a combination of 
materials, as an iron fire-box with a lining of fire-brick, by which the stove 
is enabled to heat up fairly rapidly, yet not give up its heat too fast. This 
arrangement also prolongs the life of the stove, since when constantly over- 
heated it rapidly deteriorates in character. 

With ordinary stoves the amount of direct contamination of the air, 
which is usually not inconsiderable, depends upon the tightness of their 
joints, the proper employment of dampers and the avoidance of over-heat- 
ing. The last, as just explained, may generally be secured by a lining of 
fire-brick. The production of carbon monoxide and the odors resulting 
from the scorching of minute atmospheric particles, the vast number of 
which can be appreciated by watching the path of a sunbeam in a darkened 
room, are thus avoided. Broken or badly constructed stoves are highly 
unsanitary and may give off dangerous gases, as carbon monoxide. Badly 
jointed stove pipes may give out much impurity to air, while the separation 
of sections of pipe is liable also to result in accidental fires. Base-burner 
stoves are, by careless soldiers, often damped off to reduce the heat, by 
closing the valve between the stove and the chimney instead of those 
which admit air to the fire. In this way the products of combustion are 
forced into the squad -room under pressure, producing headache, dizziness, 
languor, loss of appetite, nausea and other symptoms. In some instances, 
the poisonous gases from improperly damped stoves have been inhaled in 
sufficient quantity to produce death. Putzeys states that, during the pe- 
riod of 1867-70, there were 170 cases of asphyxiation in the Prussian 
army from the fumes of burning coal, and that 45 of these terminated in 
death as a result of which the use of such dampers was forbidden in that 
service. While the dampers used in our stoves probably do not fit suffi- 
ciently tightly to justify any apprehension of fatal poisoning, their misuse 
undoubtedly does much to cause contamination of the air and produce toxic 
symptoms of no little intensity. The manipulation of the stoves in a squad- 
room should, therefore, be prohibited to all but the room-orderly or the 
non-commissioned officer in charge of a squad. Stoves have the practical dis- 
advantage of occupying space in the squad-room. They require much atten- 
tion, particularly in very cold weather and with inferior fuel, and their ma- 
nipulation is productive, of dust, noise and confusion. The fine impalpable 
powder produced in shaking down the ashes, or in their removal, is irritat- 
ing to the respiratory tract and interferes with the maintenance of proper 
cleanliness in the squad-room. Equability of heating for any considerable 
period is not to be secured with stoves, and usually the fires are allowed lo 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 605 

die down to a considerable extent during the night. Stoves, however, fur- 
nish an economical method of heating under circumstances and conditions 
where central heating is not practicable or is not required. They distribute 
heat more equably throughout an enclosed space if located at or under the 
center of the latter ; through their chimneys they act as extracting shafts 
an additional reason why they should be given a central position. No stove 
is complete without an evaporating vessel, kept full of water to supply the 
necessary amount of moisture to the heated air. Ordinary stoves do not 
contribute to ventilation, except in so far as a comparatively small quantity 
of air is passed through the tire in the support of combustion. This lim- 
ited amount of air is drawn from a point close to the floor, and thus there 
is little movement of air in the upper levels. Since the air required for 
combustion is taken directly from the room, incoming air-currents are nec- 
essarily established but the drafts are by no means as severe as with 
open tires. For squad-rooms, it is well to guard its vicinity from an excess 
of heat by surrounding the stove with a sheet-iron cylinder, extending 
from the floor to the top of the stove. Fresh air may be admitted under 
the stove, and is thus heated as it is passed over its surface upward into 
the room. If, in addition, the stove-pipe be so placed as to warm a flue for 
the escape of foul air, and an opening be made in the ktter near the floor, 
an excellent arrangement for warming and ventilating the squad-room, 
equably and without the production of drafts, is thus secured. This plan 
is illustrated in Fig. 217. No stoves of ordinary construction should be 
put into a squad-room without being arranged in some such manner. 

With the purpose of improving upon the arrangement for combined 
heating and ventilating, just described, a number of varieties of ventilating 
stoves, depending on the same general principle, have been devised. 
These merely consist of an inner fire-box surrounded by an outside metal 
envelope, which provides for the circulation and warming of air in the in- 
termediate space and reduces the intensity of radiation. It is evident that 
for true ventilation the air warmed in this intermediate space must be 
drawn directly in from the outer air. Some so-called ventilating stoves 
merely heat air already in the room and have no connection with that out- 
side ; thus clearly having no value as ventilating agents and possessing no 
special merit save that of establishing circulating air-currents by which the 
more equable warming of an apartment is probably secured. 

Ventilating stoves are much used in the German army, and have been 
employed to a considerable extent in our own service. The pattern gener- 
ally issued is that of the Cortlaud Howe ventilating stove, which is re- 
garded as the best variety by the Quartermaster's Department. This stove 
operates very satisfactorily as far as the diffusion of heat is concerned; 
thermometric tests showing a difference in temperature of only three to 
five degrees at points just above the floor and below the ceiling, in rooms 
containing about the cubic space which this stove is. guaranteed to heat. 
With respect to ventilation, the results are not so satisfactory. Tests 
show that this stove is capable of warming and introducing only about 
1,600 cubic feet of air per hour; a quantity which might be considerably 
increased by a breeze blowing into the cold-air pipe, or which might be 
somewhat reduced by air-currents from the opposite direction. With two 
such stoves in a squad-room containing twenty-four men, it is obvious that 



506 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



the quantity of wanned fresh air introduced would scarcely suffice for the 
needs of a single individual. As seen by the accompanying illustration, 
the Cortland Howe stove is provided with a heat-aspiration shaft, opening 
near the floor. This shaft appears to be able to remove a bulk of foul air 
equal to that of about four-fifths of the entering fresh air; the remaining 
quantity being utilized in the combustion of the fuel or passing through the 
fire to escape by the chimney. This heating apparatus is excellent in theory, 
and works well in practice so far as its operation goes.; but its air-passages 
are too small and as a ventilating agent it is much over-rated. Further, it 

has no provision by which the 
entering air can be supplied with 
its proper amount of moisture. 
In determining the size of the 
intake with ventilating stoves, 
together with the number of the 
latter required, Putzeys states 
that this may be estimated, for 
a space having a known cubic 
contents and number of inmates, 
from the fact that one kilogram 
of cojl burned is capable of 
raising the temperature of 900 
cubic meters of air, moving at 
the rate of two meters per sec- 
ond, to the extent of 20 C. 
From the constant supply of 
warmed fresh air which is drawn 
in from the outside, the cold 
drafts caused by stoves of the 
ordinary pattern are avoided with 
this model. The apparatus is 
stated to be gas-tight, and to be 
incapable of being heated to a 
red heat. It does not require 
the combustion of any excessive 
amount of fuel. This stove, like many other ventilating stoves, is claimed 
to be a better heater than those of ordinary pattern. This is not the case, 
for Moriu has shown that the latter may be capable of utilizing ninety per 
cent, of the theoretical heat of combustion. Further, the introduction of 
volumes of newly heated air, by ventilating stoves, is inseparably con- 
nected with the expulsion of an equal volume of foul air, which carries with 
it a certain amount of heat. Hence it follows that the ordinary stove may 
actually be more economical as regards heating than the ventilating pat- 
tern, though the better distribution of heat by the latter may give the im- 
pression of greater warmth. 

Chimneys. It frequently happens that a chimney will smoke -vigor- 
ously when a fire is first started, especially when it has long been disused. 
This is generally due to a low temperature of the air in the chimney, and 
an inability to cause its displacement upward. Such a condition is ob- 
viously only temporary and disappears as soon as ascending currents of 




FIG. 242. -Cortland Howe Ventilating Stove. 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 607 

hot air are established. If the smoking is continued, it may be that the 
chimney is clogged with soot ; that bricks have been blown in from the 
chimney-top and thus obstructed the shaft; that descending air-currents 
have been created by neighboring buildings; or finally, that several chim- 
neys running from the same space, or several connecting spaces, are work- 
ing against each other. If the chimney is stopped with soot and needs 
cleaning, the fact may be told by inspection; while a stoppage by bricks 
is readily detected by sounding from the roof with a line and plummet. 
The actual location of such a stoppage, if one exists, may be found by an 
assistant, who listens at the chimney, from several floors, while the plum- 
met is being struck against the obstruction. The latter may be readily lo- 
cated for removal, generally only to be accomplished by tearing a hole in the 
masonry of the chimney, by the noise produced by the impact. Descend- 
ing air-currents may be caused by the deflection of wind from neighboring 
buildings, and may occur even when the latter are at some little distance. 
They may generally be caused to disappear by building up the chimney sev- 
eral feet higher and protecting its outlet with a suitable upcast ventilating 
cowl. Where several chimneys work against each other, as in several ad- 
joining rooms having free air communication, the smoking may be caused 
to cease by destroying this air communication by closing the doors between 
them. If several flues, frpm the same room and of equal height, work 
against each other, either all should be brought together into a single shaft 
with a suitable cowl, or all but one should be closed. 

In this connection, it may be mentioned that stove-pipes and chimneys 
should be kept free from soot, not only for the better draft which is thus 
afforded but to limit the liability of the soot catching fire. The frequency 
of cleaning obviously depends upon the character of the fuel used and the 
amount burned. With bituminous coal the proportion of soot produced is 
relatively large. Chimneys are best cleansed, after stopping up all holes 
for the entrance of stove-pipes with wads of newspaper or gunny-sacks, by 
going on the roof and letting a loop of chain on the end of a rope dangle 
down the chimney, moving it up and down so as to scrape it over the sides 
of the flue and thus dislodge the soot. The latter is then removed from 
the bottom of the shaft. Stove-pipes are best cleaned by taking the sec- 
tions carefully apart and removing them to the open air for scraping and 
brushing. When the soot in a stove-pipe or chimney takes fire, the com- 
bustion may be stopped by throwing a handful of sulphur into the stove ; 
the fumes of sulphur dioxide thus produced promptly smothering the 
flames in the chimney shaft. 



CENTRAL . HEATING. 

In central heating, air heated in furnaces is distributed through the 
various spaces to be warmed ; or the heat resulting from the combustion of 
fuel is stored in water or steam under circulation, to be dissipated where 
required by contact and radiation. Heating by electricity being about fif- 
teen times as expensive as by the use of the methods just mentioned, it 
obviously need not be considered in connection with the military service. 
In general, the use of steam gives better results in very cold climates, while 



508 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

the hot-water systems are more applicable to localities in which the tem- 
perature is never excessively low. Under all circumstances, heating by 
hot-air furnaces may be regarded as less desirable than the methods just 
mentioned for securing warmth in barracks. 

The advantages of central heating plants include an economy in fuel 
and labor, cleanliness and freedom from dust, the equable distribution of 
heat throughout an entire building and the possibility of maintaining a 
more uniform temperature for long periods. The last can be readily 
secured by the use of automatic thermostats when great variation of the 
outside temperature does not occur; but, on the whole, the efficiency of a 
central heating system is dependent to a considerable extent upon intelli- 
gent operation. The warming of fresh air required for ventilation is also 
more satisfactorily performed with central heating plants, and the pro- 
duction of cold drafts is reduced to a minimum. In our service, central 
heating is employed only in barracks of fairly recent construction or those 
which have been lately remodeled. Since many slightly different meth- 
ods of central heating have been applied to barracks in our own and for- 
eign armies, it is impossible here to point out the special defects or advan- 
tages of this or that system ; and merely general types of the chief systems 
in common use can be considered. 

Heating by Hot Air. When want of space or other considerations 
render it desirable to have tires located away from the rooms to be heated, 
the necessary quantity of air can be warmed in another part of the build- 
ing and conducted by flues to the desired points. This air is generally 
heated by the use of the hot-air furnace a device which is practically 
nothing but an enlarged pattern of the ventilating stove, being, in its es- 
sentials, an air-tight fire-box partially enclosed in an outer envelope ; air 
from outside being drawn into the intermediate space, warmed, passed over 
a water reservoir and then distributed as required. With respect to the 
more minor details, hot-air furnaces are constructed according to either of 
two systems. In one, the smoke and hot gases from the fire are caused to 
circulate in an extensive system of stone-ware or metallic flues, and the 
air to be warmed is conducted from the outside of the building to around 
these flues. In the second system, the conditions are reversed and the air 
itself is conducted through similar pipes, around which the flame is allowed 
to play. Although there are a large number of hot-air furnaces on the 
market, they all, however they may differ in appearance or detail, conform 
in principle to one of these systems. No special pattern of hot-air furnace 
is used in our service. 

The hot-air furnace being, as just stated, practically a large ventilating 
stove, it is beset with many of the disadvantages attending that apparatus. 
It has, however, many positive advantages. The system secures the con- 
stant admission of fresh warmed air, and hence ventilation is excellent if 
an outlet be provided ; for volumes of air are thus forced in from outside, in 
place of the exhaust resulting from combustion in a stove in the room, itself. 
The result is that instead of there being cold air-currents entering through 
existing crack's and crevices, the constant tendency of the air is to move 
outward and there are no drafts. The equable heating of buildings is also 
generally secured with hot-air furnaces ; but the distribution of warmth 
may not be good in high winds, and the rooms on the exposed side of bar- 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



racks are liable to be cold and cheerless under such conditions. Some- 
times fans are used to overcome this, defect and secure the equable distribu- 
tion of the heated air. If the distributing pipes are much bent, the loss of 
head by friction may be so great as to prevent the proper warming of a room 
except under very favorable conditions. The flues also accumulate dust, 
which further operates to retard the passage of air through them. Gen- 
erally, the warming influence of hot-air furnaces is limited to a radius of 
thirty-five to forty-five feet ; and in a large building the idea of concentra- 
tion is illusory, if a number of furnaces are required. This method of 
. heating is also not desirable where the number of rooms to be warmed 
varies, since furnaces of this character are not adapted to meet a fluctu- 
ating demand. 
The entering air 
also is often 
scorched by passing 
over too hot sur- 
faces, and thus may 
present a bad odor. 
With such over- 
heating, moreover, 
the air enters the 
room at too high a 
temperature, and 
there is no way of 
properly diluting it 
with fresh cold air. 
Under these condi- 
tions, recourse is 
usually had to par- 
tially or wholly 
closing the valves 
of the register, but 
this destroys venti- 
lation by cutting off 
the supply of fresh 
air. 

Careful atten- 
tion to details will 

do much to minimize the faults of the hot-air system. Where strong cold 
winds prevail from one direction, the furnace should be located near the 
windward side of the building ; for it is said to be as difficult to move the 
heated air ten feet against a fairly strong wind as forty or fifty feet with it. 
The furnace and air-shafts should be kept scrupulously clean ; the registers 
in squad-rooms, particularly if in the floor, are liable to accumulate dust 
and refuse and should be removed at frequent intervals to permit of po- 
licing. Great care should be had that all joints are tight in the furnace 
proper and that the air-heater is entirely disconnected ; since otherwise 
the gases are carried over the entire building. The heat applied to the 
entering air should not be of too high a degree, but should be sufficiently 
protracted to give the required temperature. When a furnace will not 




Fio. 243. Common Pattern of Hot-air Furnace. 



510 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

warm a building during cold weather without itself becoming over-heated, 
it is either too small or has too little heating surface in proportion to the 
fire-pot. Care must be had that the evaporating pans constantly contain 
water. The air-supply should not be taken from the cellar, even though 
the latter be apparently clean and free from any contamination with soil- 
air, but should come from a clean source out of doors, well above the 
ground level and from the direction of the prevailing winds. The cold-air 
duct or ducts should be screened at the entrance to prevent the admission 
of refuse or vermin, should be arranged to permit of regular cleaning, and 
should have a cross-section equal to eighty per cent, of the combined area 
of the hot-air flues leading from the furnace. The shaft for cold air 
should have a damper to regulate the admission of the latter. The use 
of this damper should be intelligently administered by the soldier in charge 
and should be frequently inspected ; for it not rarely happens that the fact 
t 'f the damper being wholly or partially closed is overlooked for consider- 
able periods, during which the supply of air is drawn in from the cellar 
and is often highly impure. It may be desirable to provide for the filtra- 
tion of the entering air through coarse cloth or fine wire gauze, especially 
if there be much dust in the incoming air. If possible, the hot-air flues 
or ducts should not be flat, but round or square, to lessen the friction ; 
and for the same reason they should be as direct in their course and as 
nearly vertical as possible. They should be covered from the furnace to 
the register openings with asbestos or other non-conducting material, 
to prevent the loss of heat from them that otherwise occurs into the cellar 
and between partitions. Their register openings into the rooms should 
not face the windows or prevailing winds unless absolutely unavoidable ; 
for if they do, the passage of warm air into the room will often be com- 
pletely checked. It has been proposed so to construct flue openings as 
to break the entering hot air into numerous currents, which are directed 
downward at a steep angle with the floor. The air is thus caused to 
enter in exactly the opposite way from which it would naturally take, 
and in its effort to change its direction the heated fresh air is thus more 
completely mingled with the air of the room and without producing un- 
pleasant drafts. 

From what has been said, it is apparent that the hot-air system 
possesses many defects as regards the heating of barracks, as compared 
with steam or hot water. It is, however, a decided improvement over 
heating by stoves. The hot-air system, in our service, has of late been in- 
stalled only in long-established posts and generally in old buildings. 
None of the barracks constructed during the past eight years have been 
heated by this method, but it is still employed in a considerable num- 
ber of the older posts. At Madison Barracks, a system providing for 
the propulsion of the heated air by fans lias been installed, but generally 
reliance has been had upon the natural upward movement of the heated 
air itself. . 

In installing the hot-air system of heating, or in remodelling existing 
arrangements which are unsatisfactory, the size of the heater and of the 
air shafts required should be known in advance. Calculations as to the 
size of registers and hot-air pipes to be used are frequently unsatisfactory, 
and reliance is usually had, in this country, upon dimensions which have 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



611 



been found by experience to be sufficient under certain conditions of 
climate. For the climate of Chicago and the northern part of this country, 
the subjoined table is generally followed ; it being assumed that all hot- 
air flues are placed in interior walls. 



Cubic feet of air 
that can be kept properly 
heated in rooms having 
one side expoaed. 


Total size of 
register to be used. 


Hot-air capacity of 
register used. 
In square Inches. 


HOT-AIR PIPK TO BE USED. 


Size, inches. 


Capacity in 
square Inches. 


] I'.IHI 


8X10 
9X12 
10 X 12 
10X14 
12X14 
12X15 
12 X 19 
14x22 
16X20 
20 X 20 
20 X 26 
24X27 
27X27 
. 80 X 30 
27 X 38 
80X42 


58 
72 
80 
93 
102 
120 
152 
205 
214 
267 
847 
432 
486 
600 
684 
840 


8 
9 
10 
10 
12 
12 
13 
14 
16 
18 
20 
22 
24 
28 
29 
31 


50 
64 
78 
78 
113 
113 
183 
154 
201 
254 
314 
HO 
452 
616 
661 
755 


1,800 


2.200 


2,800 


2,700 


8,500 


4,500 


5,500 


6,500 


8,000 


11,000 


14,500 


20,000 


25,000 


80,000 


40,000 





For the climatic conditions found in New York city and points south 
of the same, the following table is usually employed : 



Cubic feet of air 
that can be kept properly 
heated in rooms having 
one side exposed. 


Total size of 
register 
to be used. 


Hot-air capacity 
of register. 
In square inches. 


SIZE or HOT-AIR PIPK TO BE Usu> 
AND CAPACITY or SAME. 


Size In inches. 


Capacity In 
square inches. 


1,800 


8X10 
8X12 
9X14 
10X14 
12X15 
12X9 
14X22 
16X24 
20X20 
20X24 
21 X29 
24x24 
27x27 
80x30 
80X86 


40 
58 
72 
93 
120 
152 
205 
256 
267 
820 
406 
884 
486 
600 

no 


8 
8 
9 
10 
12 
18 
14 
16 
18 
20 
21 
22 
24 
28 
80 


50 
50 
68 
78 
118 
136 
154 
201 
254 
814 
852 
880 
452 
616 
707 


1,800 


2250 


2,800 


4,400 


6,100 


8,000 


10,800 


14700 


22,000 


26,000 


81,000 


84,000 


44,000 


50,000 





With regard to the heating power of furnaces, the following table is 
based upon the climatic conditions found in New York city and points to 
the south. For colder localities the number of rooms which can be heated, 
as given below, must be decreased. Usually an allowance of fifteen to 
twenty per cent, is made in this respect. 






612 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Furnaces. 


Heating capacity. 


Estimated size of air. 
boxes from west, northwest, 
or north. 


36-inch cases 


6 rooms 14 X 14 each. 

n u u u u u 
8 u u. u u 

10 " " " " " 
12 " " " " '' 
14 " " " " " 

||J .. U U U U 


12 x 24 inches. 
12X28 
12X32 
12X35 
14X34 
14X40 
14X47 
14 X 54 


40 " " 


44 " 


47 " " 


50 " " . 


55 " " 


60 " " 


66 " " 





Heating by Hot Water. By reason of the high specific heat of wa- 
ter, the latter serves excellently for the storage and transportation of heat 
and its distribution where required. The quantities of heat contained in 
equal weights of water and air at the same temperature are in the ratio of 
421 to 100; or the heat which is set free when water cools down one hun- 
dred degrees is sufficient to raise the temperature of 4.21 times its weight 
of air to the same amount. But for the same weight, air occupies 775 times 
the space that water does, and hence one cubic foot of water, losing one de- 
gree of heat, is theoretically capable of raising the temperature of 3,250 
cubic feet of air by one degree ; but in practice a small deduction is usually 
made for warming the moisture present in the air, and it is generally as- 
sumed that a given volume of water, in cooling a definite number of degrees, 
will raise the temperature of 3,000 times its own bulk of air to the same 
extent. It is evident, therefore, that a small quantity of heated water is 
capable of warming a relatively enormous volume of air. 

Heating by hot water is conducted by either the low-pressure or high- 
pressure system. With water at low pressure, the distributing pipes are so 
arranged as to form a loop through which the water circulates. Usually 
the piping employed is about four inches in diameter. The boiler in con- 
nection with this piping is commonly placed in the basement of the build- 
ing, and from its upper part runs a main pipe, dividing into lateral branches 
which may extend to the furthermost parts of the building. These 
lateral branches, at their terminations, are expanded into radiators so as to 
promote the dissipation of the, conveyed heat. A return pipe runs from the 
bottom of each radiator, and passes back, underneath the distributing pipe, 
to discharge its cooled water into the boiler at its lowest part. The circu- 
lation is open to the air at its highest point, where the main distributing 
pipe opens into a tank which provides for any expansion and permits the 
escape of air; while a valve at the lower part of the system automatically 
admits cold water to replace any losses as they occur. The operation of the 
system depends upon the fact that water on being heated becomes of lesser 
density than when cold, and thus tends to seek a higher level. Having 
given up its heat to the various rooms and become heavier, it is passed 
on to return to the boiler, which is the lowest part of the system, to^ be re- 
heated. A continuous circulation is thus ensured, the motive power being 
gravity. The circulation being open to the air at one point, the high- 
est temperature possible at or near the top, where this opening is, does not 
exceed 212 F. At the deeper portions it may be higher; but the average 
temperature in the distributing circulation rarely exceeds this point. For 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



513 



both the distributing and return pipes the average temperature is generally 
estimated at about 140 F. 

The calculation of the flow of water in the circulation is very similar 
to that of air, the head being due to difference in the densities of hot and 
cold water. To find the head for any circulation, the latter may be con- 
veniently divided into foot-sections by horizontal parallel planes one foot 
apart. By measuring the temperature in the flow and return pipes of each 
section, the head of the whole circulation will be the sum of the differences 
of temperature of corresponding sec- 
tions, multiplied by the coefficient of 
expansion of water. The average tem- 
perature in the flow and return pipes 
will be between 92 and 212 F. and 
for this range the mean coefficient 
of expansion of water is given as 
0.000318; hence the head for each 
foot-section = 0.000318 (t t'). 
However small the head may be, there 
will be a flow of some sort, provided 
there is a continuous channel filled 
with water from the boiler and back 
again. The precise velocity depends 
not only on the head but also the re- 
sistance. Its computation is subject to 
the same laws as those governing re- 
sistance in air channels ; but, as such 
calculation is very intricate, most engi- 
neers work empirically from known 
successful arrangements. 

The system of heating by hot water 
under low pressure operates with great 
regularity. Since water possesses a 
high specific heat it does not cool down rapidly, and where equable and 
continuous heat is required this method of warming possesses many advan- 
tages. By this system, the heating begins when the fire is lighted and 
gradually increases in degree, continuing for hours after the fire is out 
and until the water is cold. The heat in any of the radiators can be con- 
trolled by opening or closing its valve, without affecting the operation of 
the remainder of the system. The temperature of the various rooms can 
thus be regulated as desired ; while the heating, as a whole, is controlled by 
the intensity of the fire, enabling much or little heat to be obtained as re- 
quired by variation in the external temperature. Other advantages of the 
low-pressure system are found in the fact that the temperature of air com- 
ing in contact with the heaters cannot be unduly elevated and thus scorch- 
ing of the atmospheric particles is avoided. Ventilation is readily secured 
with this system, which obviously can in itself in no way impair the quality 
of the air. The apparatus required is simple, is noiseless in operation, easy 
of man i | 'illation and can be run at comparatively low cost. Since it is 
provided with an open expansion tank, the production of steam is avoided 
and the system is free from the danger of explosion. During periods of 
33 




Fio. 244. Diagram of Low-pressure Hot- Water 
System. 



614 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

disuse during cold weather, however, it is important that the water con- 
tained in the apparatus be drawn off, to avoid the possibility of freezing and 
the resulting broken pipes. An objection to the use of this system in 
places which are intermittently heated, as drill halls" or gymnasia, is found in 
the time required properly to heat the considerable bulk of water employed. 
A question of very practical importance is how much hot-water piping, 
of a given external diameter, is necessary for the heating of a given room. 
The answer to this depends upon a large number of conditions, more espe- 
cially as to the loss of heat through the walls and windows as well as that 
carried out by the air in process of ventilation. Much of present informa- 
tion on this matter is due to Hood, who says that an iron pipe four inches 
in external diameter loses 0.851 of a degree of heat Fahrenheit when the 
excess of its temperature is 125 F. above that of the surrounding air. 
He estimates also that one foot of a four-inch pipe will heat 222 cubic feet 
of air 1 F. per minute, when the difference between the temperatures of 
the air and the pipe is 125 F. The following table, from Hood, shows 
the length of four-inch pipe at 200 F. necessary to warm 1,000 cubic feet 
of air at varying internal and external temperatures. If the diameter of 
the pipe is increased in any ratio, the length required will be reduced in 
the same ratio. Thus 100 feet of four-inch pipe can be replaced by four- 
thirds of 100 feet, or 133 feet, of three-inch pipe, and so on. 



Temperature 
of external air. 


TEMPERATURE, IN DEGREES FAHRENHEIT, AT WHICH THE ROOM is REQUIRED 
TO BE KEPT. 


50. 


55. 


60. 


65. 


70". 


75 e . 


10 F 


150 
142 
135 
127 
120 
112 
105 
97 
90 
82 
75 
67 
60 
52 
45 
87 
30 
22 
15 
7 


174 
166 
159 
151 
143 
135 
128 
120 
112 
104 
97 
89 
81 
73 
66 
58 
50 
42 
84 
27 
19 


200 
192 
184 
176 
168 
160 
152 
144 
136 
128 
120 
112 
104 
96 
88 
80 
72 
64 
56 
48 
40 


229 
220 
212 
204 
195 
187 
179 
170 
162 
154 
145 
137 
129 
120 
112 
104 
95 
87 
79 
70 
62 


259 
251 
242 
233 
225 
216 
207 
199 
190 
181 
173 
164 
155 
147 
138 
129 
121 
112 
103 
95 
86 


292 
288 
274 
265 
256 
247 
238 
229 
220 
211 
202 
193 
184 
175 
166 
157 
148 
139 
130 
121 
112 


12 


14 


16 


18 


20 


22 


24 


26 


28 


30 


82 


84 


36 


38 


40 


42 


44 


46 


48 ... 


50 







To obtain the amount of radiating surface required for a given room and 
to compensate for heat lost from walls, windows and doors, Baldwin gives 
the following rule : Take the difference in temperature in degrees 'Fahren- 
heit between the lowest outside temperature to be provided for and the 
temperature at which the room is to be kept, and divide it by the differ- 
ence in degrees Fahrenheit between the temperature of the pipes and the 
temperature at which the room is to be kept. Multiply the quotient thus 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 616 

obtained by the number of square feet of glass plus the number of square 
yards of external wall surface in the room, and the product will be the 
number of square feet of radiating surface required. This calculation does 
not provide for any leakage of air through crevices or for any change of air 
by ventilation. To allow for this, the additional calculation is made of 
multiplying the number of cubic feet of air admitted per hour by the num- 
ber of degrees Fahrenheit which they are to be heated, the product being 
divided by 12,500. The quotient is the number of square feet of radiating 
surface required to allow for ventilation ; and this should be added to the 
.number of square feet of radiating surface, as calculated above, for a room 
without such ventilation. In practice, empirical rules as to the size of the 
radiators, varying with the locality, are generally followed and give excellent 
results. A very satisfactory rule much used for determining the number 
of square feet of radiating surface necessary to warm a given space consists 
in multiplying together its three dimensions of length, breadth and height, 
expressed in feet, and dividing the product by a divisor varying from 25 to 
30, according to the locality. The result gives the amount of radiating 
surface required. Usually the number 25 is employed as the divisor where 
cold climates or exposed rooms are concerned. By many, also, the last 
named number is used under all circumstances ; they preferring to regulate 
the heat by manipulation of the fire, and to thus have a sufficient radiating 
surface to meet the emergencies of very cold weather without the necessity 
of maintaining an unduly hot tire in the heater. 

Radiators, whether for hot water or steam, may be of many forms, ver- 
tical or horizontal, and composed merely of a series of large condensing 
pipes or of the more elaborate special arrangements commonly employed. 
They are best placed immediately under the windows of the squad-room 
and covering the openings for the admission of outside air. The cold air 
thus admitted passes up between the pipes of the radiator and is warmed 
before escaping into the room. The details of this method are shown in 
Fig. 216. Another advantage of locating the radiators below the windows 
is seen in the fact that descending currents of air, chilled by contact with 
the windows, are thus warmed and their unpleasant action is neutralized. 
Sometimes radiators are located in the middle of the squad-room. This 
is a bad arrangement, since the room is much less equably heated, con- 
siderable space is lost for administrative purposes and the entering air 
passing in through registers beneath them must traverse long shafts 
necessarily containing at least one right angle and certain from the nature 
of things to become and remain foul from the deposition of dust. When 
placed against the wall, however, the radiator is less readily got at from 
all sides and careful inspection will often reveal behind them unsanitary 
accumulations, the existence of which had not been suspected. This is 
particularly a fault of the direct-indirect apparatus as used in our service, 
since this radiator is built up solidly from the floor, and is especially hard 
to keep clean. The air-box of the radiator requires to be inspected at least 
once a month, and the top gratings should be frequently removed for pur- 
poses of cleanliness. 

There are a large number of patterns of low-pressure water-boilers, but 
the best are those in which the water is caused to circulate in small pipes 
BO distributed as to make the most of all available heat. The accompany- 



516 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 245. Side View of Boiler, Showing Cir- 
culation of Water and Amount of Water 
Surface Exposed to the Heat. 



ing cut of the " Perfect " boiler shows the great amount of heating surface 
exposed to the direct action of the fire. In this apparatus, tfce water, in 
the process of heating, circulates twice around the fire-pot, then enters the 

first water section, passing across this 
section into and across the next water 
section, and so on, crossing and recross- 
ing the rising column of heat ; the bot- 
tom of the V-shaped channels being 
nearest the fire, the small body of water 
circulating therein absorbs heat and ex- 
pands and rises up where the channels 
are larger, thus maintaining a positive 
circulation with the minimum of friction. 
In this heater, every particle of water is 
compelled to travel around and over the 
fire seven times before reaching the 
mains, thus absorbing the greatest pos- 
sible amount of heat from the flame and 
gases in their course from the fire-box 
to the smoke-flue. Owing to their pe- 
culiar construction and the small body 
of water contained in each section, a po- 
sitive and rapid circulation is caused 
through every part of the heater which 
prevents the accumulation of sediment 

and makes it a very powerful circulator. The fire-box of this heater holds 
sufficient fuel to last from eight to twelve hours, thus requiring but little 
attention. 

The low-pressure system of hot-water heating is used to a considerable 
extent in our service. It is much used for the warming of officers' quarters 
and is commonly put into barracks at all but the coldest stations. For hos- 
pitals, it is the method of heating generally employed. The system is 
regarded by the Quartermaster's Department as being much safer and less 
liable to accident than is the high-pressure system, and hence, where hot- 
water heating is to be used, it is the method which is commonly selected. 
A combination hot-air furnace and hot-water system has been em- 
ployed to some extent in civil life. In such a system the water-heating 
surface is obtained by inserting a coil of pipe in a hot-air furnace, and 
certain rooms are thus warmed by the hot air while others are warmed by 
hot water. This system is theoretically excellent for certain conditions, 
but practically it is difficult to design and construct in such a manner that 
the supply of heat to different rooms shall be positive and well distributed. 
The arrangement has no special applicability to the military service. 

In the high-pressure system the water is completely enclosed in 
wrought-iron pipes, whose internal diameter is usually -| inch and 
external diameter 1^- inches and which are sufficiently strong to with- 
stand the pressure corresponding to very high temperatures. Thus the 
pressure required to prevent steam from forming at 212 F. is 14f 
pounds per square inch; at 300 F. it is 67 pounds and at 400 F. it is 
250 pounds per square inch. The small iron pipes are so arranged as to 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



517 



form a complete circuit, as in the low-pressure system ; part of it being 
coiled within and exposed to the heat of a fire. At the top of the circuit 
there are one or more larger pipes called expansion tubes. These contain 
half air and half water, and therefore allow for the expansion of the latter 
without explosion. When the pipes have been filled with water they are 
closed with screw plugs ; making the whole circuit practically a closed ves- 
sel full of water except at the top, where there is an air space amounting 
to 15 to 20 per cent, of the total capacity of the pipes. The temperature 
is regulated by the amount of pipe within the fire as compared with that 
without it the proportion varying from 1 : 16 to 1 : 10 according to circum- 
stances. The temperature also depends upon the height of the fire itself. 
Once started, the circulation of hot water within these high-pressure pipes 
is very rapid. The water is heated much above the normal boiling-point 
and the system is usually operated at a temperature of 300 F., though 
sometimes greater pressures are employed. 

With the high -pressure system, the quantity of water contained in the 
circulation pipes is very much smaller than with the low-pressure system, 
and hence it can be raised to a heating 
temperature in a much shorter time. This 
period of preliminary heating is said to be 
only one-sixth of the time required for the 
production of steam. On the other hand, 
there is no such reserve of heat as with 
the low-pressure system and the water 
cools down rapidly as soon as the fire is 
extinguished. The system is easily in- 
stalled, easy of operation and economical 
of fuel. One of its faults consists in the 
irregularity of temperature found in differ- 
ent parts of the same loop of piping, and 
there is some difficulty in regulating it ac- 
cording to the needs of the moment. High- 
pressure pipes are also liable to over-heat 
the air and may be a cause of accidental 
fires. Putzeys states that wood is carbon- 
ized at a temperature of 257 F., and is 
capable of combustion at 343 F. Hence 
it is desirable that these pipes should be 
isolated from all inflammable substances. 
As with stoves and furnaces, the odor of 
scorching from contact of atmospheric par- 
ticles with an over-heated surface is present 
with this system. This occurs where the 
heated surface has a temperature of 285 F. or above. The high-pressure 
system has, in the past, led to some very disastrous explosions ; at present 
the pipes are usually tested for one hundred atmospheres, although in prac- 
tice the pressure rarely exceeds six atmospheres. Since, in addition, there 
are often automatic valves connected with the expansion tubes, it would 
seem that this apparatus should be quite safe and explosions no longer li- 
able to occur. As with the low-pressure system, if the water is left in the 




Fio. 846. Diagram of HiRb-Preaaure Hot* 
Water System. 



518 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

pipes in unheated buildings, during cold weather, it is liable to freeze. 
This may be avoided, if necessary, by the use of a solution of calcium 
chloride in the pipes. In spite of the fact that the water is in a closed 
system, a certain amount of wastage occurs which necessitates the periodi- 
cal addition of a fresh supply. 

Where the high-pressure system is employed, the necessary area of 
radiating surface is much reduced when compared with the low-pressure 
system, through the higher temperature which is reached in the former. 
The length of the pipe required for radiation can usually be found from 

2.252 d (t' t) 

the formula ^ ' r . = L, in which d is the number of cubic feet 
D ( 1 t ) 

of air to be warmed per minute, t' is the temperature to be maintained in 
the room, t is the lowest temperature of the outer air to be provided for, D 
is the known external diameter of the pipe, T the temperature of the 
pipe and L the length of the pipe required. 

Water heating is sometimes accomplished at a temperature intermediate 
between those of the low-pressure and high-pressure systems. A pressure 




FIG. 247. Elevation of Pipe System Usually Employed In Steam-Heating. (After Baldwin.) 



not exceeding two or three atmospheres is used, corresponding to about 
265 F. When this pressure is exceeded, it is automatically relieved by 
a valve; the diminished pressure operating another valve by which the 
proper amount of cold water is admitted into the system. 

Heating by Steam. As water is a much better agent than air for 
the absorption and transmission of heat, so is steam superior to water for 
the same purpose, since the amount of heat maintained by it in a latent 
condition is very great. One pound of steam at 212 F. will, in condens- 
ing to form boiling water, give off sufficient heat to raise the temperature 
of 5.36 pounds of water or 22.5 pounds of air to 212 F. 

In its essentials the steam-heating 'system comprises a steam generator 
or boiler, pipes for the distribution of the steam, condensers in which it 
may return to water and give up its heat, and finally, pipes for the return 
to the boiler of the water of condensation. The operation of the system 
depends upon the fact that steam travels through a closed system over 
great distances with great rapidity, and without condensation provided the 
pipes are of sufficient calibre and are properly insulated. The return to 
the boiler of the water produced by its condensation is accomplished by 
gravity. 

The pipes carrying the steam to its destination are of smaller bore than 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



519 



are used with the low-pressure hot- water system, usually having an inter- 
nal diameter of about 1.5 inches. If the building to be heated is large, 
however, and the steam is to be conducted a considerable distance, the 
interior diameter of the distributing pipes must be proportionately in- 
creased. Thus at Washington Barracks the heating system in one of the 
barrack buildings was a failure during very cold weather, since the dis- 
tributing pipes were too small and condensation of the steam occurred be- 
fore it reached certain of the rooms which it was intended to warm. In 
addition to ensuring that the distributing pipes are of sufficiently large 
bore, they should be insulated as much as possible during their course by 
wrappings of felt or asbestos cloth. For the latter purj>ose the Ambler 
asbestos air-cell covering is excellent. The covering is composed of divided 
air-cells, each independent of the other, produced by arranging in alternate 
layers sheets of plain and cor- 
rugated asbestos paper, wound 
into cylinders of proper diame- 
ter. These cylinders are split 
longitudinally so that they can 
be easily slipped over the pipes. 
The covering is light, neat, non- 
conducting, fireproof 'and not 
liable to deterioration. The 
radiating pipes are made of at 
least four times the diameter of 
the conducting pipes, so as to 
ensure efficient condensation ; 
and if of copper or cast iron, 
and colored some dark tint, they 
radiate heat more rapidly. Since 
in steam-heating the pressure is 
usually not more than 1 atmos- 
pheres, the pipes need not be as 
substantial as with high-press- 
ure hot-water heating. Multi- 
tubular steam boilers merit pref- 
erence over more simple types ; since, independent of the security they give, 
they permit of much greater rapidity in the production of steam than with 
other boilers. In the United States, to provide for all emergencies, it is 
customary to allow one square foot of heating surface in the boiler to five 
feet of radiating surface. Aside from its use for heating purposes, in foreign 
barracks the steam -heating system, when in operation, is generally utilized to 
supply hot water for the lavatory and laundry. In the German army, nearly 
all the cooking of the ration is done by means of steam from this source. 

The size of steam radiators is obviously dependent upon the amount 
of heat required. A number of elaborate methods for calculation of the 
amount of radiating surface necessary have been proposed, but the results 
given by these are, in practice, no more satisfactory than the common rules 
of thumb, based on long experience, which are used by steam-fitters. For 
the United States at large, to heat to 70 Fahrenheit with an outside tem- 
perature of zero Fahrenheit, the general rule is to allow one square foot of 




FIG. 84. Section of Boiler for Stnmi-Hraimir. Showing 
Amount of Water Surface Exposed to the Heat. 






620 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

radiating surface to each 75 cubic feet of space. Another rule is to allow one 
square foot of radiating surface to each 100 cubic feet of space, with an 
increase of radiating surface as follows : Ten per cent, when the exposure 
is a northerly one ; ten per cent, when the building is heated during the 
day only, the location not being particularly exposed; thirty per cent, 
when the building is heated during the day only, and the location is an 
exposed one; fifty per cent, when the building is heated intermittently, 
with intervals of days or weeks of non-heating. For the climate of 
Washington city, a common rule is to divide the cubic capacity of the room 
to be heated by the number 80 ; corrections for special exposure being made 
as above. For cold climates, Mills gives the following rule : Allow one 
square foot of radiating surface for each two square feet of glass, one for 
each twenty square feet of exposed wall and one for each two hundred 
cubic feet of space. The sum gives the number of square feet of radiating 
surface required. Another rule for indirect heating, to maintain a temper- 
ature of 70 F. inside with an outside temperature of zero, the surface of the 
steam radiator being taken at 212 F., is to add the number of square feet 
of glass to one-fourth the exposed wall surface in square feet, multiplying 
the sum by the factor 0.7. The result gives the number of square feet of 
radiating surface required. Clearly there is no one rule which would apply 
to all cases of building construction and all exposures, and hence considera- 
ble dependence must be had upon judgment and the results of experience. 
One great advantage possessed by steam-heating in this connection is that 
miscalculation in the size of radiators and pipes, if not excessive, can be 
overcome by increasing the pressure of the steam. 

Steam-heating is now used in a large proportion of the barracks which 
have been erected during the past decade, particularly those located at the 
colder stations. It is also much used in foreign services ; more especially 
for hospitals, but also to some extent for barracks. When steam-heating 
is used there is no direct contamination of the air, but in a close apart- 
ment the indirect contamination, from failure to remove the respiratory 
impurities, is serious the same air being warmed and breathed over and 
over again. Hence special means of ventilation, as with hot-water heat- 
ing, must be provided. This is usually accomplished by the direct-indi- 
rect method, which gives most satisfactory results. With steam heat the 
air is not scorched, since the floating particles are not heated above 2^3 
-225 F., the conduits and radiators are small and the heat is readily 
controlled by manipulation of the fire or of the radiator valves. The sys- 
tem is devoid of danger, since a pressure of one and one-half atmospheres, 
corresponding to a temperature of about 235 F., is rarely exceeded. 
While in operation, steam-heating gives a uniform temperature. There 
is, however, no reserve of heat, and when the fire is lowered the heater 
ceases to act and the apartments cool down rapidly. To avoid this, at the 
military hospital at Vincennes, in France, a system has been installed 
which includes large tanks of water imder the floor, through which steam 
pipes are made to pass. These raise the temperature of the water, which 
thus becomes a reservoir of heat. After passing through the water the 
steam is conducted into condensing pipes, whence it returns to the heater. 

A defect which may be present in a badly arranged steam-heating sys- 
tem consists in the violent pounding sometimes noticed in the pipes. 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 621 

This is due to water accumulating to such an extent as to condense some 
of the steam in the pipe ; thus forming a vacuum which is filled by a very 
violent rush of steam and water, the latter striking the side of the pipe or 
radiator with great force. In general, this may be prevented by arranging 
the piping in such a manner that the water of condensation will immedi- 
ately drain out of the radiators and pipes and return to the boiler. The 
common system of steam-heating provides a special set of return pipes for 
this purpose. As steam diffuses slowly and does not condense rapidly in 
a space occupied by air, it is necessary to let the latter escape from the 
pipes and radiators at the time the steam is turned on. This may be done 
by hand, but is best accomplished by valves of composition metal which 
are open at ordinary temperatures and close by expansion at the temper- 
ature of steam. These again open and admit air automatically if the tire 
is allowed to die down. 

II. 
LIGHTING. 

In addition to an abundant and constant supply of pure air, the entrance 
of sunlight into barracks is a matter of much sanitary importance. This 
can be secured by a proper architectural plan and orientation of the build- 
ing, a sufficiency in number and size of windows and doors, and by locat- 
ing the building in such a manner that its sunlight will not be interfered 
with by trees, buildings or other objects. Porches of too great depth may 
be a cause of undue shade, and an insufficiency of light is favored if these 
are painted in somber colors. For the inside of porches and barracks the 
best results, all things being considered, is given by painting in light yel- 
lows or cream color. Pure white absorbs luminous rays least, but it also 
shows defacement readily and gives rise to a trying glare in direct sunlight. 
An abundance of natural light in barracks, aside from its obvious necessity 
for the proper performance of administrative functions, exerts a marked in- 
fluence upon the efficiency of the sanitary police. Dark, illy ventilated 
recesses are especially liable to shelter unsightly and unsanitary accumula- 
tions, which would never be allowed to exist were they exposed to ready 
inspection ; while even with the best intentions minor sanitary faults are 
easily overlooked under such conditions. Light, also, particularly direct 
sunlight, is unfavorable to the growth of pathogenic micro-organisms, none 
of which can long survive exposure to the solar rays ; and the free access 
of an abundance of natural light into barracks should be regarded as essen- 
tial to their healthfulness. Deficient sunlight also unfavorably influences 
physical development and undoubtedly is a factor in the production of 
mental depression. In many of our older barracks, and necessarily so with 
casemates, these matters liave been disregarded ; but in the newer barracks 
natural lighting has received satisfactory consideration. 

In determining the number of windows required for the proper natural 
lighting cf barracks, the number of days of sunshine which may annually 
be expected in a post should receive consideration ; and in cold climates 
the window area must not be made too large. Putzeys believes that, for 
temperate climates, it will suffice if the window area is equal to one-sixth 
or one-fifth of the floor space or one square yard for each thirty cubic yards 



522 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

capacity. Trelat goes further, and believes that the window area should 
equal one-fourth the floor space, or should be calculated on a basis of fif- 
teen square feet per man. It is obviously desirable, in temperate climates, 
that direct sunshine should reach all parts of a squad-room. Even if win- 
dows be made ten feet high, the solar rays cannot strike the floor, if enter- 
ing at the desirable angle of 35 -40, for more than half the width of a 
squad-room twenty-five feet wide. Hence windows on both sides of a 
squad-room are necessary to the accomplishment of this end. The amount 
of light which can pass through such windows depends to a considerable 
extent upon the quality and character of the glass. Galton showed that 
ordinary window-glass intercepted thirteen per cent, of light, ground glass 
thirty per cent., and heavy corrugated glass fifty-three per cent. Dust ap- 
pears to adhere less readily to glass of good quality and smooth finish. 

With respect to artificial lighting, that of our posts and barracks is a 
matter of much importance ; of posts, not only because such lighting is a 
general convenience but particularly since it is a potent meansof restrain- 
ing the perpetration of nuisances in the vicinity of barracks such being 
especially liable to be committed under cover of darkness. The number of 
lanterns and street lamps for the illumination of a post, outside of barracks, 
is fixed by the department commander. 

In buildings used as habitations the heat and atmospheric vitiation re- 
sulting from artificial lighting are worthy of careful sanitary consideration. 
This matter has received little attention in our service, and lighting is still 
accomplished in nearly all barracks and hospitals by the most primitive 
methods, such as have long since been discarded in nearly all large insti- 
tutions in civil life. In the matter of lighting, our soldiers are by no means 
as well treated as are the inmates of asylums and prisons. Candles are sup- 
plied as one of the components of the ration, but are rarely used except in 
the field. Coal-oil is used for illuminating purposes in nearly all garri- 
sons ; but at a few posts, near large cities, connection has been made with 
the municipal gas mains. In several of the new artillery stations, in 
which electric plants had already been installed for other purposes, electric 
lighting has lately been authorized in the barracks now under construction. 

Unit of Light. In this country and England, the unit adopted for 
the measurement and comparison of lights is a sperm candle of the size 
known as "sixes," burning eight grams per hour and giving out a light 
known as "one-candle power." Such a candle, on analysis, contains: 

Carbon 80 per cent. 

Hydrogen 18 " 

Oxygen 6 " 

and in combustion yields equal volumes of carbonic acid and watery vapor 
to the air, namely, 0.41 cubic foot. The French unit of light is the Car- 
eel burner, which equals 9.3 standard English candles. 

Mineral Oil.. ^Although various kinds of oil have been employed for 
illuminating purposes, mineral oil, owing to its cheapness and high illumi- 
nating value, is the only one used in the military service. Analyses of 
this oil, according to Notter and Firth, give the following average com- 
position : 

Carbon 86 per cent. 

Hydrogen 14 * 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



When burned in the better kind of lamps, the average consumption- of this 
oil, per candle power, is four grams per hour, giving off at the same time 
0.28 cubic foot of watery vapor. With inferior lamps the consumption <>f 
oil is often double this amount, accompanied by the production of 0.5 
cubic foot of carbon dioxide and the consumption of the oxygen of about 
3.2 cubic feet of air. 

In our military service, for stations where mineral oil is used, an excel- 
lent Rochester-burner lamp of 55 candle-power is issued. One of these 
burners is allowed to each ten men, or greater fraction thereof, and an al- 
lowance of four ounces of oil is authorized for each hour during which the 
light may be maintained ; a matter regulated by the commanding officer of 
the post with the approval of the department commander. The above al- 
lowance does not represent the maximum burning power of the lamp but 
is sufficient to produce a fair light. A number of small bracket lamps, 
single and double, are also still 
in use, though no longer supplied 
for issue. These have a lighting 
capacity of 18 candle-power and 
are expected to consume two 
ounces of mineral oil per hour. 

The light produced by these 
'lamps is neither powerful nor of 
the best quality, the expense of 
their operation is great and they 
require constant care and atten- 
tion. The amount of time spent 
in properly caring for the lamps 
used in our service is, in the ag- 
gregate, very great and furnishes 
a strong economical argument 
against the use of such means of illumination. The vitiation of atmosphere 
by the products of their combustion is also large, and flaring, with its smoke 
and sooty deposits, is liable to result from any gust of air. In warm cli- 
mates or summer weather the heat which such lamps evolve often renders 
the temperature of barrack -rooms almost insupportable ; besides which they 
are never free from danger of tire or explosion as a result of accident or a 
poor quality of oil. 

Coal-gas. This is used for purposes of illumination in a few posts 
located in the immediate vicinity of large cities, the supply being derived 
from the local mains. Usually it happens, however, that even under con- 
ditions when gas might be obtained the garrison is required to use mineral 
oil, much to its unnecessary disadvantage. 

Coal-gas, as its name implies, is a mixture of a number of gases pro- 
duced in the dry or destructive distillation of coal. About ninety per <vnt. 
of coal-gas is made up of so-called diluents, which do not give much lumi- 
nosity but dilute the heavy hydrocarbons, which might otherwise give a 
smoky flame. These diluents are chiefly hydrogen, methane and carbon 
dioxide. The actual illuminants, constituting only about six per cent., con- 
sist of gases rich in carbon, as ethane, acetylene and olefiant vapor. The 
impurities make up the remainder. Every cubic foot of ordinary coal-gas 




Fio. 249. Barrack Lamp. 



624 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

yields, on combustion, roughly half its own volume, or 0.52 cubic foot, of 
carbon dioxide and 1.34 cubic feet of watery vapor. Knowing the quan- 
tity of gas which each burner consumes hourly, the average in our service 
being six cubic feet, there is therefore no difficulty in calculating the vitia- 
tion of the air from such causes. Combustion, however, with ordinary 
burners is never complete ; thus slight traces of carbon monoxide will gen- 
erally escape combustion, while with a rich gas distinct traces of acetylene 
are generally given off. The actual products of combustion vary with the 
quality of the gas and the completeness of the process. When coal-gas is 
partly burned, the hydrogen and light and heavy carburetted hydrogens are 
almost destroyed. Of the resultant, nitrogen constitutes about sixty-seven 
per cent. ; water, sixteen per cent. ; carbon dioxide, seven per cent. ; and 
carbon monoxide, five to six per cent. A small amount of sulphur dioxide 
and ammonia are also found. Where the combustion of coal-gas is perfect, 
there will be little production of carbon monoxide. Speaking generally, 
it may be said that each cubic foot of gas burnt per 
hour from ordinary flat burners vitiates as much air 
as would be rendered impure by the respirations 
of an individual during the same period. 

The complete combustion of a given volume 
of coal-gas must, on theoretical grounds, give rise 
to the production of exactly the same products of 
combustion in whatever burner the gas is con- 
sumed. It follows, therefore, that if the consump- 
tion of gas be low, the evolution of gaseous im- 
purities will be proportionately reduced ; so that, 
apart from mere questions of economy, a burner 
which consumes a relatively small amount of 
gas, to say nothing of the superior light it may 
give, must be preferable on that account from the 
The relative hygienic advantages of certain bur- 




FIG. 250. Argand Burner. 



sanitary point of view. 

ners are therefore well worthy of consideration. 

The most simple gas-burner is the common pattern giving a flat, but- 
terfly-shaped flame. This is the burner employed wherever gas is used in 
our barracks, and, as supplied, is capable of burning six cubic feet of gas 
hourly. Its illuminating value is 16 candle-power. This burner has 
many bad qualities, especially for the interior lighting of barracks and 
hospitals. The light is unsteady and trying to the eyes and the flame is 
also liable to smoke in air-currents. The latter may, however, be pre- 
vented and the light softened by the use of globes. The amount of gas 
used is proportionately large and its combustion is not complete, thus 
causing great vitiation of the atmosphere of the room. The quantity of 
heat developed by the combustion of gas in burners of this character is 
also very great. These defects are fully appreciated in civil life, and dur- 
ing the past few years various gas-burners have been introduced which not 
only increase the luminous intensity of combustion but also diminish the 
consumption of gas, while special arrangements decrease the vitiation of 
the air. While many varieties of these burners have been devised, the 
Argand burner, the Wenham regenerative burner and the Welsbach burner 
are probably the best representatives of then- types. 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



52r, 




Fio. 251. Wenham R>ReneraUve 
Burner. 



The Argand burner is a great improvement over the ordinary flat 
burner, consuming less gas and at the same time yielding more light. In 
this contrivance the gas escapes through a series of small holes disposed 
in a circle around an annular burner, itself surrounded by a cylindrical 
glass or globe. The combustion of gas is more 
complete by this method than with the flat bur- 
ner and the flame is more steady. The gas ar- 
rives at the burner under a low pressure ; some 
mollifications of the apparatus possessing an au- 
tomatic pressure regulator. 

Burners of regeneration are based on the 
principle that illuminating gas burns better, is 
more completely consumed and produces a 
stronger light if it is mixed with very hot air at 
the moment of combustion. For the attainment 
of this object, the heat of combustion is used to 
elevate sufficiently the temperature of the cold air entering the apparatus. 
In the Weuham burner the most important part is the cylinder B, through 
which small pipes serve for the entrance of air, while the heat and gases of 
combustion escape through intermediate pipes to pass out at A. To light 
the burner the globe I) is removed. The flame must be kept low at first, 
since otherwise the glass is liable to be shattered. The burner gives a 
steady white light and is very economical of gas. By its use there is not 
only little or no vitiation of the atmosphere in the room, but when in op- 
eration the apparatus promotes ventilation by acting as an efficient heat- 
extracting shaft. This type of burner is excellently adapted for use in 
barracks where gas is employed. 

Of the various forms of light derived from coal-gas, that yielded by 
the Welsbach burner stands out pre-eminently as the best. This burner, 
when complete, may be said to consist of two essential 
parts. The first is an ordinary but carefully adjusted 
burner of the Bunsen type, in which air and gas are 
mixed before combustion in the proportion of thirty 
parts of gas to seventy of air, producing a colorless or 
faintly blue flame. The second part is a fine, gauze-like 
mantle composed of nitrates of the alkaline earths, ce- 
rium, lanthanum, thorium and zirconium, which is sus- 
pended in the flame by a forked support of magnesium 
silicate, itself luminous when hot. The flame and man- 
tle are enclosed in a glass chimney, which serves to 
protect the fragile mantle from accident and also to 
keep the flame steady. The principle of the Welsbach 
burner depends upon the conversion of heat into lumin- 
ous rays, the mantle being rapidly raised to incandes- 
cence by the heat of the burning gas. The light given 
by this burner is very white, brilliant and steady, being much like that of 
the electric light. This apparatus consumes only about half the gas re- 
quired for combustion by an ordinary flat burner, while at the same time 
it gives off more than three times as much light. The mantles are some- 
what fragile and are said to last only 800 to 1,000 hours. Their increased 




no. SB. Welibach 
Burner. 



626 THEOKY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

cost in this respect, however, is more than made up by the very great sav- 
ing of gas thus rendered possible ; but this fragility is none the less a seri- 
ous drawback for the use of these burners in barracks, where they may be 
subjected to less careful usage. In hospitals, where gas is provided, this 
pattern of burner should always be supplied. 

Acetylene. This gas, from its many admirable qualities as an illumi- 
nant, its readiness of preparation, ease and safety in handling and the small 
size and comparatively light weight of the simple apparatus used in its 
generation, is especially suited to the needs of the military service. Far 
superior to candles, oil or coal-gas, it is probably surpassed, from the sani- 
tary standpoint, by the incandescent electric light alone. 

Acetylene is a pure hydrocarbon gas, having the chemical formula 
C 2 H,,. It is produced from calcium carbide by the addition of water in 
excess, according to the following reaction : 

CaC, + 2H,0 = Ca(OH), + C,H,. 

One pound of calcium carbide, to which nine ounces of water have 
been added, will yield six and one-half ounces of acetylene gas or about 

five cubic feet. This gas is clear 
and colorless, has a distinctive odor 
resembling garlic and burns with a 
flame of intense brilliancy, the spec- 
trum being almost identical with that 
of the sun. Acetylene is the chief 
illuminating principle of ordinary 
coal-gas, though present in the latter 

FIG. 253. A, Acetylene, one-half-foot burner; B, . , & 

Gas, six-foot burner. Photographic exposure of in the proportion OI but tour to SIX 
three seconds. T , 

per cent. It is a permanent gas 

under the low pressure in which it is used, and when mixed with air in 
about the same proportions as coal-gas it acts in a similar manner and may 
be stored, handled and distributed in the same way. A certain prejudice 
has existed against acetylene from accidents which followed its use in the 
early form of generators ; but modern apparatus entirely eliminate all dan- 
ger of use. Calcium carbide, however, should be kept in water-tight metal 
cans when stored, and should not be exposed to the weather. Mixed with 
air, acetylene appears to be no more explosive than is coal-gas ; and when 
escaping from leaky joints it may be safely lighted, this being the usual 
method of locating imperfections in distributing pipes. Fatal asphyxiation 
appears to be much less liable to occur with acetylene than with ordinary gas. 

The quality of the light given by acetylene is excellent, being clear 
and white and strongly resembling that given by electricity. The light 
is also very intense and steady ; far surpassing coal-gas, as used in ordi- 
nary burners, in these respects. 

Calcium carbide is now made in vast quantities, and at slight expense, 
by fusing calcium and carbon together in the electric furnace. A 25 can- 
dle-power burner, which consumes but one-half a cubic foot of acetylene 
per hour, costs for its operation about two-fifths of a cent hourly, which 
is less than that of operating a 6-foot flat gas-burner and about the same 
as the electric light under the conditions usually found in this country. 
The price of calcium carbide, moreover, is steadily falling as a result of 
more economical methods of production. Recent investigations made in 




HEATING AND LIGHTING. 



527 



France by Hospitaller, comparing the cost of acetylene with other illumi- 
nants, expressed in cents and terms of one candle-power for one hour, gave 
the following results : 



llliiliiiliant. 


Coct In cento. 


Illumtnjuit.'i 


Coot In cento. 


Tallow candle 


4 00 


Petroleum 


. r x4 


Gas, open burner 


.76 


Gas, Welsbach burner 


H 


Edison incandescent 


.6 


Acetylene 


.2 











The scheme of operation of modern acetylene generators is extremely 
simple and merely requires the automatic control of contact between the 
carbide and water. These generators are divided into two main forms ; 
one in which the water is fed to the carbide in small quantities, and the 
other in which the carbide is fed to the water. The first form of appa- 
ratus is not without danger and is wasteful of gas. The second form ap- 
pears to be largely free from defects and is compact, readily operated and 
free from danger. An acetylene generator capable of thoroughly lighting 
a company barrack or post hospital need not be greater in bulk than a 
hogshead, while one capable of illuminating a field hospital of one hundred 
beds is not larger than a pork barrel ; the latter apparatus weighing when 
complete, without water or carbide, but little more than one hundred 
pounds. These generators are thus very transportable and are capable of 
excellent use in hospitals and headquarters offices in the field. In per- 
manent buildings, acetylene is distributed by ordinary gas-pipes ; but in 
the field rubber tubing may be used, this being rapidly strung from one 
hospital tent to another when several tents are pitched together below 
the ridge-poles. A special burner is required for the combustion of acety- 
lene, in which a flat flame is produced by the reciprocal action of two tips. 
If the gas be moist, carbonization is liable to occur on these tips, which 
should therefore be frequently inspected. Usually combustion of the ace- 
tylene is complete, and an object, such as a white plate, 
shows no trace of soot when held in the flame. 

Acetylene generators are made in an almost infinite 
number of varieties and sizes, according to the special 
purpose for which they are intended. For barracks and 
post hospitals, an apparatus having a carbide capacity of 
twenty-five pounds and capable of supplying illumina- 
tion at the rate of one 25 candle-power burner for 250 
hours will usually be sufficient. To ascertain how long 
such a generator will supply the number of burners de- 
sired, it is only necessary to divide the number of hours 
of service by the number of burners required. Thus 
with an apparatus like the above, fifty burners may be 
burned simultaneously during a period of five hours but usually only a 
small proportion of the burners provided would be used for the same period. 
In a Colt acetylene generator used in a barrack-building at Washington 
Barracks, containing forty-five men, re-charging of the apparatus was nec- 
essary but once every three days. This form of generator is simple in the 
extreme, consisting of only three principal parts: 

First. A water-supply tank, holding only sufficient water for genera - 




FIG. 254. Burner for 
Acetylene tias. 



528 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



tion and for keeping the residue in a liquid state ; the supply of water 
being inserted and the residue drawn off without the use of stopcocks or 
valves and without opening the generator, no gas escaping and no air 
being admitted. 

Second. The carbide holder, having a conical bottom secured over the 
water supply and provided with a carbide feeding-valve of simple and 
positive action. 

Third. A gas-bell to enclose the carbide holder and to connect it with 
the water-supply tank, separately water-sealed. The gas-bell regulates the 
feeding of the carbide from the carbide holder, and is so arranged that the 
latter can be filled without removing the bell and without the escape of 
gas or admission of air. 

Incidental to the generator proper is an improved blow-off. Any sol- 
dier of ordinary intelligence can re-charge one of these generators in a few 

minutes. The residue is of a creamy con- 
sistency with practically no odor and can 
be poured into drain pipes or sewers. This 
residue, being nothing but thick milk of 
lime, is obviously an excellent disinfectant. 
Where a sewer connection is convenient, 
the residue flush-out pipe of the generator 
may be connected with it and the appara- 
tus filled with water by means of a bucket, 
or, if a water service is convenient, it may 
be connected so that by opening a faucet 
and allowing the water to run through the 
machine the latter cleans itself; so that 
absolutely no other attention is necessary 
except to open the filler-cap and pour in a 
fresh supply of crushed carbide. If no 
sewer connection or water service is con- 
venient, the cleaning out of the machine is 
done by putting a bucket under the flush- 
out pipe and pouring water into the bib. 
The amount of residue to be handled is re- 
duced to a minimum and the method of 
doing it is simple in the extreme. As the gas is entirely extracted from 
the residue, no odor of acetylene escapes into the room. 

A small portable generator, when packed similar in shape and size to 
an ordinary water-pail, having a carbide capacity of two pounds and main- 
taining four 25 candle-power burners for four hours, possesses particular 
value for use in the field, for offices or operating- tents. For cleaning and 
charging only a few minutes are required, and, like the larger forms of 
generator, during operation this apparatus requires less attention than an 
ordinary mineral oil lamp. 

Electricity. Of all the systems of lighting in common use *at the 
present time, the incandescent electric light must be regarded as by far 
the best from the standpoint of health. The light is very pure, steady 
and of great intensity ; and is especially valuable for military use because 
of the slight amount of heat which it gives off, and from the fact that with 




FIG. 256. Large Size Acetylene Genera- 
tor. 




HEATING AND LIGHTING. 529 

its employment no deleterious products of combustion are passed into the 
atmosphere of the room nor is the oxygen of the latter drawn upon for its 
successful operation. Electric lighting is, however, somewhat costly, and re- 
quires a special plant and trained mechanical su]>ervision for its production. 
For these reasons it may not be possible, from motives of economy, to in- 
stall this method of lighting in small posts, especially 
if these be of a presumably temporary character. In 
many large garrisons, however, engines are used for 
pumping up the water-supply and steam is kept in 
these engines at night in anticipation of possible con- 
flagration. In such posts, dynamos could be driven 
at night by these engines with but slight original 
outlay, a constant saving to the government and much 
benefit to the garrison. In the past, repeated efforts 
to obtain authority to utilize jK)wer thus wasted has 
met with no encouragement from the authorities. 
Not long since, a former head of the responsible de- 
partment, in refusing such a request, although shown 
that by this means an actual saving to the govern- 

J , . -. Fio. 256. Acetylene Uen- 

meiit would result, omcially stated that electric light- erator, small size, 

ing was still in the experimental stage and this in 
spite of the fact that outside the military service electric lighting was every- 
where being successfully employed to the comfort and advantage of all con- 
cerned. For this non-progressive attitude there can be no justification, and 
it is to the credit of succeeding authorities that such a mistaken policy has 
not been persevered in. As already mentioned, within the past few months 
certain stations have been equipped with electric lights, and it is much to 
be hoped that this system of lighting may be introduced into all our posts 
of any size or permanency. Particularly is this the case with reference to 
the southern garrisons, in which coolness of barracks is of great importance 
and where the universally open doors and windows permit of free drafts 
which cause smoking and flickering of the flame from burning gas or oil. 
For hot climates or summer weather, it should not be forgotten that the 
greater or less amount of heat resulting from artificial illumination means 
all the difference between comfort and discomfort. 

Illumination by electric arc lights is obviously not desirable for bar- 
racks, though these are excellent through their penetrative power for the 
lighting of posts. The light from the electric arc is too intense and is very 
unstable, while the consumption of the carbon is accompanied by a constant 
buzzing sound. Such lights, which are not contained in sealed glass globes, 
are said to vitiate the air in the formation of nitric acid. This, however, 
is of no importance in connection with the circumstances under which such 
lights shoidd be used; and under any conditions their effects in this direc- 
tion are proportionately much less hurtful than the combustion of coal-gas, 
oil or candles, as now supplied. 

Vitiation and Heating of Air. From a sanitary standpoint, these 
matters are of chief importance in the lighting of buildings; and the fol- 
lowing table well shows the relative standing, in these respects, of the 
more common means of illumination : 
34 



530 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 





* 


'i 








8 





Method of illumination. 


111 

a = 


I 


|| 


CO, 

produced. 


Moisture 
produced. 


1 


iill 






B 


O g 






|S 


i c ^ 




O 


3 










2*- 




147 grams 


16 


10.7 


7.3 cu. ft. 


8.2 cu. ft. 


1,400 


120 


Sperm candles 


116 " 


16 


9.6 


6.5 " 


6.5 " 


1,187 


11 


Kerosene lamp 


60.6" 


16 


5.9 


4.1 " 


3.3 " 


1,080 


7 


Coal-gas No. 5 " batswing " 
















burner 


5 5 cu. ft. 


16 


65 


28 " 


73 " 


1 194 


5 


Coal-gas, Argand burner 


4.8 " 


16 


5.8 


2.6 " 


6.4 " 


1,240 


4.3 


Coal-gas, regenerative burner. 


3.2 " 


82 


3.6 


1.7 " 


4.2 " 


760 


3 


Coal-gas, Welsbach incandes- 
















cent burner 


3.5 " 


50 


4.1 


1.8 " 


4.7 " 


763 


2.8 


Acetylene .... 


10 " 


50 




20 " 






36 


Electric incandescent lamp . . . 


0.31b.coal 


16 


0.0 


0.0 " 


0.0 " 


87 


0.0 



With respect to vitiation of the air, it is evident that the incandescent 
electric light, which exerts no deleterious effect whatever upon the atmos- 
phere, is easily to be given the first rank. Comparing other methods of 
illumination to this respect, after reduction to a common standard in can- 
dle-power, it is seen that the Welsbach incandescent light and acetylene 
gas give very similar results ; the vitiation of the air from the flat gas-bur- 
ners and kerosene oil-lamps used in our service being respectively about five 
and seven times greater than these. The heat produced by the two last- 
named methods, proportioned according to the light given, is thirty to 
thirty-five times greater than that resulting from the use of the electric in- 
candescent lamp, while with the regenerative gas-burner the heat produced 
is ten times greater. The heat produced by acetylene is said to be only one- 
tenth that of gas when burned in an ordinary flat burner. Investigations 
made by the writer, at Washington Barracks, showed that of two large bar- 
rack rooms of identically the same size and construction and number of 
illuminating burners, but one of which rooms was lighted by coal-gas while 
the other was lighted by acetylene, the temperature on a warm evening in 
May was 7 F. higher in the room lighted by gas than in the one lighted 
by acetylene both rooms having been tightly closed with all jets burning 
for one hour. 

Where illuminants other than electricity are employed, deterioration of 
the air of the room, resulting from their use, can be largely prevented by 
placing above the burners small flues with wide, bell-shaped extremities to 
carry off the gases of combustion into the external air, the heat of the 
burners producing strong currents of air outward. Richard recommends 
that, when gas is to be burned in the air of a room, the small flues opening 
over the gas-jets should run to the chimney and discharge into a special 
air-shaft in the latter. This air-shaft should be of a size capable of remov- 
ing (1) the volume of gas burned; (2) the volume of air necessary to burn 
the gas about four times the volume of the latter and (3) a quantity of 
air, in addition, which he estimated at two hundred times the volume of 
the gas burned. Unfortunately, such an arrangement, though good, is 
not especially easy of installation in barracks and is somewhat costly, and 
can therefore in practice be largely left out of consideration in dealing 
with the question of the vitiation of air by lights. The removal of the 



HEATING AND LIGHTING. 631 

products of combustion by the regenerative burner, as already described, 
is excellently accomplished. 

Conclusions. It is evident from the foregoing that, considered prac- 
tically as well as hygieuically, illumination in the military service under 
all circumstances, but especially for stations in warm climates should 
be accomplished wherever possible by means of the electric incandescent 
light. 

Considerations of hygiene, comfort and economy, taken together, also 
point to the use of acetylene in all posts where electric lighting cannot be 
secured. The small amount of heat and atmospheric deterioration result- 
ing from the combustion of acetylene render this illumiuant much superior 
to coal-gas as commonly used, especially for hot climates. As compared 
with mineral oil, acetylene is far superior in all respects. For isolated 
stations or buildings it possesses special advantages, while the compactness 
and ready portability of the acetylene generators and distributing pipes 
render it especially available for stations of no great permanency or for 
certain purposes with troops under canvas. It is much to be hoped that 
the responsible authorities in our service may give this method of lighting 
the favorable consideration which it deserves. 

In stations where coal-gas has already been introduced and cannot be 
exchanged for electric lighting, it is equally clear that the flat " bat's-wiug " 
burners should be discarded, and regenerative burners used in barracks, 
while Welsbach burners are preferably to be employed in hospitals. Ordi- 
narily, however, where coal-gas can be obtained, electricity can also be 
supplied and at no greater cost. 

Mineral oil should be totally discarded as an illuminant for barracks 
and hospitals, under all circumstances. In view of the far better method 
of lighting available in the use of acetylene, this can now be done at 
slight original outlay and with decreased running expenses. For the 
lighting of small detached buildings not employed for the shelter of 
troops, mineral oil may be still allowed a limited use. Candles should be 
employed by troops only when in the tield, as is practically the case at 
present. 



CHAPTER XII. 

DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 

IN the military service, the removal of excreta from the vicinity of 
habitations is of even greater sanitary importance than is the case in civil 
life. It has already been noted that where troops are constantly changing 
their residence site, as during campaign, they will not usually experience 
the consequences of inefficient removal of excrementitious waste; since 
instead of the excreta being removed from the troops, the latter are con- 
stantly being moved away from their excreta. In large standing encamp- 
ments, however, the disposal of such material becomes a serious sanitary 
problem, directly depending in its gravity upon the relative permanency of 
the camp. In camps intended for long occupancy, as with fixed posts, the 
proper disposition of material of this character becomes literally a matter 
of life and death. The military sanitarian will therefore endeavor to se- 
cure its removal from the vicinity of buildings and posts; not only 
promptly, but also in such a manner that neither air, soil nor water shall 
be made impure and no opportunity shall be left for the occurrence of dis- 
ease from any infectious material which it may contain. Clearly these 
theoretical requirements are not easily to be satisfied, and their accom- 
plishment may be secured only by the expenditure of much labor and con- 
siderable financial outlay. For these reasons, the most efficient methods 
of disposal have not always been introduced into our posts during the 
past, particularly since many garrisoned stations were recognized as not 
being of a permanent character and maintained only to meet a temporary 
military exigency. With the abandonment of posts of the latter charac- 
ter, the general conditions with respect to the disposal of excreta and 
liquid refuse have undergone a steady improvement throughout the service. 

At present, the methods of disposal of excreta and liquid wastes in our 
permanent posts may be classified somewhat as follows : A very few small 
frontier stations still in the primitive sanitary condition of privy-pit con- 
servancy, with no provision for the disposal of liquids save the absorb- 
ing soil of their sites ; a few in which earth-closets have been substituted 
for the pit system; a few in which, besides the earth-closet or the pit, 
some effort is made for the removal of liquid wastes ; a few in which the 
drains for these liquid wastes form the rudiments of a sewerage system, 
by having connected with them the outflows from certain lately introduced 
water-closets; and lastly, the great majority provided with thoughtfully 
planned, carefully built and thoroughly efficient systems of sewerage. As 
a whole, our methods of disposing of excreta and refuse compare very favor- 
ably with those of foreign armies, particularly in those of France, Russia, 
Italy and Spain, in which the disposition of excreta is frequently of such 
character as to furnish a continual menace to the welfare and safety of 
troops. 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 533 

The Cess-pit System. Until a comparatively recent period, exca- 
vated pits or vaults afforded the most common means of disposing of the 
excreta in posts. These pits were usually deep and roughly stoned, and 
ultimately contained considerable quantities of putresceut and offensive 
matter ; this giving rise to gases and liquids that only too readily polluted 
the air and soil around them, contaminated the ground-water and pene- 
trated to the wells in their vicinity. The distance through which the 
latter action might be exerted, as already mentioned, was often consider- 
able, depending upon the difference in depth between the privy-vault and 
the well, the character of the soil and the direction and rate of movement 
of the subsoil water. The cess-pit had also the defect of requiring the ex- 
posure of the person over a large excavation full of cold and mephitic gases; 
a condition which, particularly at night, may predispose to disease in the 
partially -c- lad soldier. Further, the conditions in such vaults were usually 
very favorable to the development and increase of many jiathogenic 
micro-organisms. An attempt was sometimes made to limit the genera- 
tion of odors by the application of earth or ashes, but these materials 
filled up the vault so rapidly that their use was ordinarily not long con- 
tinued. Disinfectants were also sometimes employed ; but only rarely, as 
they were not usually available for such purposes. When filled up, such 
vaults were rarely emptied, but were covered over and left unmarked and 
forgotten to remain as dangerous hidden foci of disease to future garrisons. 
The worst offenders in this respect were the common shallow pits dug for 
temporary relief, generally without authority, near the stables, corrals and 
married soldiers' quarters, frequently honeycombing the site of an old 
post. Thus it was reported from Fort Leavenworth, in 1899, that the 
ground around the married soldiers' quarters was so full of abandoned 
latrine vaults that it was difficult to find a site for a new one ; in an effort 
to this end, six excavations had to l>e made before a spot was found which 
had not previously been need for this purpose. At old Fort Omaha, lately 
abandoned, privy-pits had l>een dug and filled so often that the soil was 
everywhere saturated with fiscal matter, and the ground-air so foul as to 
be a cause for complaint. The cess-pit system of disposal was until re- 
cently in use at Fort Keogh ; the post area having in the course of time 
become thickly studded with deposits of filth. Of Fort Washakie, it was 
reported several years ago that the soil was so honeycombed with privy 
vaults that no new cess-pit could be excavated in the hospital yard with- 
out opening old ones. These instances are cited to show the nuisance 
which the privy-pit system ultimately produces. While this method of 
disposal may temporarily be relatively inoffensive, it is only a question of 
time when it will exert a most unfavorable effect upon the healthfulness 
of the site. Aggregations of filth of this character long preserve their 
original characteristics and are only slowly disintegrated by bacterial action, 
for the reasons detailed in connection with the bacterial treatment of 
sewage. 

Usually a privy-pit which has been once installed, even if originally 
intended for temporary purposes only, is continued in use until the un- 
sanitary conditions produced by its existence compel its abolishment. 
Hence the establishment of privy-pits, under any such pretext, is to be 
firmly opposed by the sanitary officer. Should higher authority decide to 



534 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

permit their use, at least they should be specifically designated as to place 
and depth, tilled in according to rule and marked both in place and on the 
post map. At permanent posts, where such old pits are known to be in 
existence, if close to any occupied habitation they should be reopened, 
emptied, limed and tilled with clean earth. Wherever their use is permitted 
they are best cemented inside so as to be water-tight, should be disinfected, 
at short intervals and should be pumped out frequently by odorless exca- 
vating apparatus. The vault should be roofed in and well ventilated by 
long flues running through the roof ; the ventilating shafts being preferably 
painted black. The movement of the foul air in the vault is thus rather 
outward by the ventilating flues than by the apertures in the seat. 

At present, even in some of the most important posts, the married en- 
listed men's quarters are dependent upon privy-pits for the disposal of 
excreta. This arrangement should be done away with; water-carriage 
should be provided if possible, and in its absence the earth-closet system 
should be installed. 

The vault system is still in use in several foreign armies, and under 
special conditions which render it much more offensive and unsanitary 
than is the case in the few instances in which it is still employed with 
us. Thus in several barracks in Paris, it is stated that immense cess-pits 
have been excavated beneath the buildings ; sometimes these are cemented 
inside, but often they are so cracked as not to be water-tight and to permit 
their fluid contents to soak into the surrounding soil. This method of 
removal, however, appears to be not always regarded, by certain minds, as 
undesirable," since sanitary cleansing is an offensive and costly process. In 
the barracks just mentioned, ventilating pipes conduct outside the building 
all the foul gases that do not escape into the closet as a result of its greater 
warmth. The excreta are generally discharged into the cess-pit through 
untrapped hoppers, opening into a shaft which may run through many 
stories and is incapable of being either properly flushed or cleaned. These 
cess-pits are usually emptied by hand. A condition of affairs similar to 
the above was found by our troops to exist in many of the barracks and 
public buildings in the islands taken from Spain as a result of the late 
war. The general system of cess-pit disposal is largely used in all Latin 
countries, and their military services naturally share to some extent in the 
prevailing customs. 

The Pail System. A slight improvement over the old excavated 
vault is found in the pail or tub system, which permits the removal of the 
excreta more easily and frequently, and with less nuisance, than is the case 
where the cess-p'it is used. With this system, a movable receptacle of the 
above character intervenes between the seat of the closet and the floor ; the 
latter being raised above the ground-level and made of cement or other 
impervious material. When full, the tubs or pails are carried away for 
the disposal of their contents and are replaced by empty receptacles. 

While local contamination of the soil is less than occurs with the 
use of privy- vaults, this system is highly unsanitary. Since earth is not 
used in these receptacles, their condition naturally becomes very filthy, their 
contents are foul-smelling, are not protected from flies, and are not rarely 
spilled out while being removed to the dumping-ground. This method of 
disposal cannot be recommended. 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 536 

The Dry-Earth System. Improving on the pail system, just men- 
tioned, Moule showed that a slight covering pf dry earth, of suitable qual- 
ity and character, destroyed the offensive odor of the excreta and at the 
same time rapidly brought about the disintegration and disappearance of 
the latter. Even paper was ultimately destroyed by this means, while 
fecal matter could not be detected by sight or smell after a period of two 
or three weeks. At the end of this time, earth which had been used for 
this purpose possessed a perfectly normal appearance and could, if desired, 
be employed over and over again. The destruction of the ftecal matter, 
under such circumstances, appears to be due to the action of the nitrifying 
bacteria present in vast numbers in certain soils. 

The dry -earth system is especially adapted to posts where either the 
water-supply is insufficient for general water-carriage or where a doubtful 
permanency prevents the installation of an expensive sewer system. It 
may also be employed to serve a temporary purpose while a more suitable 
means of disposal is being introduced. It is far less offensive than the 
ordinary pail system, and should invariably be substituted for the use of 
privy-vaults in the absence of water-carriage. The installation of dry- 
earth closets is both simple and inexpensive. 

Dry-earth latrines are used in the British and Austrian armies at a 
number of stations. The French use them in Algeria ; though preferring 
the Goux modification for home stations. In our own army, the system 
is employed at a number of posts. It appears, on the whole, to render 
very efficient service and where cause for complaint exists, a lack of 
the necessary details of administration can usually be demonstrated. It 
should be understood that the success of the system depends on proper 
scavenging arrangements and efficient sanitary supervision and if these 
cannot be secured, this method of disposal will prove unsatisfactory and 
unsanitary. As with the pail system, the saturation of the soil with filth 
and the pollution of the ground-water are avoided. There is, however, a 
considerable liability to the dissemination of possibly infectious material 
through carelessness in scavenging. The great point of superiority of the 
system consists in the fact that, by its use, the excreta are promptly rendered 
inodorous and inoffensive, while the possible transmission of infection by 
means of flies is largely avoided. 

One inconvenience is found in the fact that the system does not work 
well unless the earth to be employed is perfectly dry. In our own service, 
its use is particularly satisfactory on the high plateaus of the west or in 
other dry regions and for the French army, Laveran states that no such 
excellent results can be obtained in France as are given by the system in 
Algeria. Another disadvantage consists in the necessity of collecting, dry- 
ing and storing the earth ; the supply of which to large posts, particularly 
during long periods of rainy weather, is a matter of considerable difficulty 
from the amount required. In dry western climates, the earth required 
can usually be dried sufficiently in the sun ; but in damp localities some 
artificial means of drying may be necessary, as by the use of improvised 
kilns. Earth dried in the sun appears to be more efficient in its action ; 
when dried artificially, it is desirable that the temperature be not raised 
sufficiently to sterilize it and thus destroy the micro-organisms upon which 
its efficiency chiefly depends. 






536 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Not only should the earth be dry originally, but it must be kept in this 
condition, which usually implies the erection of a suitable shelter under 
which it may be stored. The earth should not be lumpy but should be in 
tine particles, to secure which quality it is best sifted and screened. 
There is much choice in the character of the earth to be used ; the best are 
loamy surface-soils, vegetable moulds, dry clay or brick -earth. Chalk, 
gravel or sand give only inferior results. Sifted coal-ashes may be used 
for this purpose, but while they are an efficient desiccant their deodorizing 
powers are very slight. Sawdust lias been tried at Fort Missoula with 
satisfactory results, as a substitute for dry earth. Charcoal is an excellent 
deodorizer and is used abroad in earth-closets for this purpose ; it is not 
required in the military service, where careful sanitary supervision and the 
generous use of dry earth of good character should satisfactorily answer all 
purposes. 

In the British army, the amount of dry earth to be provided is based 
on the estimate of one cubic foot per month for each soldier. This allow- 
ance is insufficient arid does not permit that free use of earth upon which 
the special value of this system depends ; to obtain the best results, twice 
the above quantity will be required. The amount of earth necessary for 
covering each dejection obviously varies with the amount of the latter. 
Usually the quantity of earth should be about five times the combined 
weight of the solid and liquid excreta. Thus with four ounces of faeces 
and seven tluid ounces of urine the amount of earth required would be 
about four pounds. Vallin states that where clay soil is used, about 
twenty per ent. more earth is required to obtain the same results than 
where garden loam is employed. 

For the proper operation of the dry -earth system, the earth must be 
systematically used and the dejecta promptly covered after their deposition. 
Where a number of fecal dejections are passed without being covered in- 
dividually, the mass disintegrates slowly and gives off odors. In military 
latrines, the dry earth is usually kept in boxes on the floor of the various 
compartments, a scoop being provided by which the earth can be distrib- 
uted as required. As might be expected, however, soldiers are prone to 
neglect its use, and it will not rarely be found necessary to issue special 
orders on this subject and hold company commanders strictly responsible 
for the condition of the latrines of their respective organizations. The 
plan sometimes practiced of having the room-orderlies look after the 
sprinkling of the latrine receptacles is unwise ; since this can be done by 
them only at infrequent intervals, between which the system becomes offen- 
sive and unsatisfactory. In some foreign services, a simple arrangement has 
l>eeu tried, by which a sufficiency of earth is automatically deposited on the 
excreta by means of a valve, on pulling a cord. This arrangement has no 
advantages over the box of earth and scoop already mentioned, nor can the 
deposit of earth be as efficiently disposed as by the latter. 

Nothing but faeces and such urine as may be passed during the act of 
defecation should find their way into the receptacles of the earrti-closet 
system, as the absorbent capacity of the earth is limited and its dryness is 
essential to the success of the system. As a result of this fact, efforts have 
even been made to catch, separate and conduct away such urine as might 
be passed during defecation ; but this precaution is scarcely necessary, as 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 537 

sufficient earth can readily be provided to take up that amount of fluid. 
Urine passed at other times should not, however, be discharged into the 
dry -earth closets, but should be disposed of in some other way. 

Where the dry-earth system is in use, the latrine-building should 
preferably be constructed of brick, with concrete flooring raised well above 
the ground. The building should not be too close to the barracks, and 
should be so located as not to become in any way a possible source of con- 
tamination to a water-supply. Ready means of access for the scavenger 
should be provided at the rear, as by a hinged flap opening outward, so 
that the contents of the receptacles need not be removed through the build- 
ing itself. The floor of the latrine should slope to a certain point, so that 
any liquid which may be spilled over it may run down where it can read- 
ily l>e collected. The receptacles should not be too large, the capacity of 
each being not over eight cubic feet, so that the frequent removal of their 
contents may be imperative. If possible, such receptacles should be kept 
in duplicate, so that those removed for dumping, cleaning and deodorizing 
may be replaced at once by others. Some of the large troughs used in our 
posts are very unwieldy and cannot be dumped, requiring to have their con- 
tents shovelled out ; with receptacles of this character, the pollution of the 
ground in the vicinity of the latrine is certain to occur during scavenging. 
The receptacles for earth-closets should always be of impermeable and non- 
absorbent material and should never be of wood although wooden boxes 
or drawers are generally in use where this system is in operation in our 
army. Such wooden boxes absorb much excretal matter, the odor of 
which no subsequent cleansing or amount of deodorants will remove. Gal- 
vanized-iron receptacles are very satisfactory for this purpose. If force of 
circumstances compels the use of wooden receptacles, their surfaces should 
be thoroughly tarred and the oj>eration afterward repeated at intervals of 
two months. Whatever the material and form of the receptacles, they 
should fit sufficiently closely to prevent urine and foecal matter from getting 
into the slide space. The latter should be ventilated by a shaft, as already 
suggested in the case of privy-vaults. To increase its aspirator)' effect in 
winter and carry off any odors, the stove-pipe should pass up through this 
shaft, which should be made large enough for the purpose. Unless some 
such ventilating arrangement is made, in cold climates the odors given off 
by the dejecta are promptly aspirated up into the heated room before any 
covering of earth can be applied ; and where a latrine is in constant use, 
the air of the room is generally bad at all times as a result. If possible, 
the receptacles should be kept at a point above the freezing temperature. 
The seats should be hinged, s*o as to allow a more thorough cleansing 
of the subjacent space when required; for the same reason, the floor of this 
space should be of cement and should slope slightly outward. 

All scavenger work in connection with the dry -earth system is prefer- 
ably to be performed by civilian labor and not by that of soldiers. Such 
work is degrading to the military man, and although often necessary in 
the field, in garrison is surely not in his proper line of duty. Where civil- 
ian scavengers are employed, careful oversight should be had over their 
work and methods. The majority of them slight their tasks to a greater 
or less degree, and the system is proportionately unsatisfactory as a result. 
Thus at Fort Sam Houston, in 1898, recommendation was made for the 



538 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

abolition of the dry-earth system because of carelessness and inefficiency 
in the carrying out of its details. Under many circumstances, also, the 
securing of the necessary scavenger labor at reasonable cost is a matter of 
difficulty and is sometimes impossible particularly among the native white 
population in the west. Thus at Boise Barracks, in 1895, the dry-earth 
system installed several years previously had to be abandoned, and a re- 
turn made to the old system of privy-pits, by reason of the fact that the 
necessary civilian scavenger labor could not be secured for the post. 

The expense of caring for earth-closets is not small, and the more fre- 
quently the cleaning is carried out the greater the cost of operation 
hence there is always an inducement to economize in labor at the expense 
of health. The receptacles should be cleaned out, however, at least once 
every two days in warm weather and a daily emptying is desirable. Dur- 
ing cold weather, less care is required and a cleansing twice weekly is 
usually sufficient. It is important to use an ample amount of earth in 
covering the dejections during cold weather, since otherwise the contents 
of the receptacle may be frozen to its sides and bottom and be removable 
only with difficulty. The collection of the excreta is best made at night 
between the hours of taps and reveille, when the closets are not in use and 
any nuisance arising from the operation is not observed. The refuse 
should be carted away to a distance of at least one mile for final disposal, 
preferably by burial. In the tropics, the natives who perform this duty 
require careful watching, since otherwise they are liable to deposit the con- 
tents of the carts on the surface of the ground instead of in trenches. The 
night-soil should not be buried at too great a depth, however, but should 
be given only a superficial covering of earth, since when buried too deeply 
the soil from the closets remains much longer in its original foul condition, 
through the small numbers of the bacteria upon which its destruction de- 
pends. In cold climates, the sanitary officer should ensure that sufficient 
dry and loose earth has been stored by the scavenger to last through the 
period of cold weather. 

The desire so commonly manifested by line officers, to have weak dis- 
infectants used in earth-closets in order to control any odor which may be 
present, is due entirely to a misconception of the processes upon which the 
efficiency of the dry-earth system depends. These disinfectant substances 
inhibit the action, if they do not destroy the vitality, of the bacterial fer- 
ments present in the soil; there is therefore no disintegration, oxidation 
and nitrification of organic matter, and the whole process by which the 
excreta are destroyed is arrested. It is because of the absence or infre- 
quency of these nitrifying organisms in such soils as chalk or sand that 
they are inefficient when used in earth-closets ; hence the addition of any 
substances which would impair the activity of such bacteria as may be 
present should obviously be avoided. 

There is no reason to suppose, in view of the well-known viability of 
typhoid bacilli in contaminated soil, that dry earth renders innocuous the 
infectious material contained in the dejecta. Hence this system offers cer- 
tain facilities for the spread of infectious disease not found in the disposal 
of excreta by water-carriage. T^ius Moore showed that, in 1894, in an 
epidemic at Leicester, the typhoid cases were much more numerous in 
those districts where the fcecal matters were collected in tubs ; an epidemic 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 639 




Fio. 257. (ioux Rweptaele, with 
AbHortieni Uninjf. 



in one street showing proportionately five times as many infected houses 
among those using the tub system as among those provided with water- 
closets and sewers. At Newcastle-on-Tyne, the typhoid cases were twice 
as numerous in those houses provided with the dry -earth system as among 
those provided with water-closets. He also 
found that at Birmingham, in the same year, 
the typhoid incidence was one and one-half 
times greater in houses using pails, as compared 
with those possessing water-closets; with re- 
gard to second cases of typhoid fever in fami- 
lies, one occurred in every fourteen houses using 
pails and one in every twenty -two houses using 
water-closets. 

The Gpux System. This is a refinement 
of the ordinary dry -earth system, as just de- 
scribed. In it, the pail or tub is lined with some absorbent material, such 
as peat or a mixture of tan, sawdust and soot. The material is pressed 
firmly against the sides of the container by means of a mould ; the latter 
being afterward withdrawn, leaving a lined cavity for the reception of the 
excreta. Nothing but feces and such urine as may be passed during the 
act of defecation is to be deposited in these tubs. When full, any project- 
ing filling is shaken down from the sides so as to cover the excreta prior 
to its removal. No fluid appears in the receptacle and no offensive odor 
is disengaged. Like the dry-earth system, the Goux system has the great 
advantage of being readily put into operation, and when properly managed 
it gives excellent results. This system is used in both the French and 
German armies at stations which possess no sewerage. In the German 
army, powdered peat is used as the lining material ; but 
in the French service, charcoal, ashes or any drying sub- 
stance is employed. 

SEWERAGE. 

The removal of excreta by water-carriage is the cleanest, 
readiest, quickest and, in many ways, the least expensive 
method for its disposal. A piped water-supply, necessary 
for other purposes, furnishes at once a motive power at the 
cheapest rate ; and where channels are necessary for the 
conveyance away of the waste or dirty water used for domestic purposes 
in a post, they can usually be employed for the removal of excreta also 
with but little alteration. It would obviously be a waste of economy to 
allow this foul water to pass off without applying the force which is pres- 
ent in it to other purposes. A water-carriage system, once established, 
thus costs little or nothing for its operation ; the latter being automatic 
and without dependence upon individual effort. The conveniences are 
much greater with such a system of disposal, and the encouragement thus 
given to a more liberal use of water conduces to both health and cleanliness 
on the part of troops. 

Since by the use of water-carriage all liquid or excretal waste leaves 
the military community a short time after it becomes refuse, it is evident 
that this system is far superior to privy-vaults and earth-closets for the 




Fio. 268. Mould 
Used in Lining 
(Km* UecepUu-le. 



540 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

disposal of excreta, and at many posts, within the past decade, sewerage 
systems have been installed to take the place of the less sanitary methods 
of disposal which had previously been in use. At other garrisons, how- 
ever, this improvement has not been made ; either because of the uncer- 
tainty of continuance of the post as a station for troops or because of an 
insufficient water-supply which would render adequate flushing imprac- 
ticable. At some few posts, also, the problem of sewerage and water- 
supply has been complicated by a winter temperature not rarely reaching 
forty-five or fifty degrees below zero a degree of cold at which no water- 
carriage system of disposal could be expected to remain free from the dan- 
ger of freezing and breakage, under the conditions usually found in the 
military service, without a disproportionately high financial outlay. 

It is important to remember with reference to sewerage that no im- 
provised arrangement, inferior apparatus or poor workmanship should be 
countenanced. Unless everything connected with the system is of the best 
quality and eminently adapted to the purpose for which it is intended, the 
results will be uniformly unsatisfactory. Makeshift appliances are to be 
avoided, since as compared with a poor sewerage system, the dry-earth 
closet is a sanitary improvement. Thus at Fort Sill the drainage system, 
originally poor, was soon reported as being beyond repair, while complaints 
with reference to the stench and frequent overflow were common. 

In general, to make a success of any system of sewerage, it is essential 
that there be a good supply of water, well-constructed and ventilated chan- 
nels, a proper outfall and a suitable and inoffensive means of disposing of 
the sewage. If these requirements cannot be united, the sewerage system 
will constantly cause annoyance and may become a source of considerable 
danger. The main objection to sewerage systems is that they create un- 
derground channels connecting houses, which permit the transference of 
effluvia from place to place. This objection, however, is against an error 
of construction and not against the plan as properly carried out. A prac- 
tical fault in the system is that the pipes may break and their contents 
contaminate the soil, and this is a great evil which it requires much care 
to avoid. 

Although in discussing the question of drainage and sewerage it is 
necessary at times to touch within the province of the sanitary engineer, 
the minutiae of engineering cannot of course be considered in this volume. 

Sanitary Value of Sewers. There is no more important subject 
than that of drainage and sewerage, so far as regards the local propagation 
of disease, and its details are worthy of the most careful attention on the 
part of sanitary officers. It may be accepted that, whatever be the defects 
of sewers, they are much more than counterbalanced by their advantages. 
Waring says, with reference to this subject : " Defective though they often 
are, whether in the house or in the street, they have probably been, next 
after the introduction of a pure water-supply, the most important factor in 
the reduction of the death rate." The difficulty of proving this proposition 
statistically consists in the number of "other conditions at the same* time 
affecting the health of soldiers, outside those of sewerage; from civil life, 
however, illustrations with respect to this point can be found in the vital 
statistics of municipalities for periods before and after sewerage systems 
were introduced. Thus Oldright gives the following comparison of death 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 541 



rates, before and after the introduction of marked sanitary improvements 
of this character, in various English towns. 



Place. 


Average mortality 
IKT l.lt. bt-f..!.- 
construction 
of sanitary works. 


Average mortality 
perT.OOU. af U>r 
construction of 
sanitary works. 


Saving of life, 
per cent. 


Reduction in 
mortality from 
typhoid fever, 
per cent. 


lianburv 


23.4 


20.5 


12.5 


48 


Cardiff " 


38.2 


22.6 


82 


40 


Croydeu 


28.7 


18.6 


22 


63 


Dover 


22.6 


20.9 


7 


36 


Ely.. 


23.9 


20.5 


14 


56 


Leicester 


26.4 


25.2 


4.5 


48 


Macclestield 


29.8 


23.7 


20 


48 


Merthyr 


33.2 


26.2 


18 


60 


Newport 


31.8 


21.6 


82 


36 


Kucbv . . 


19.1 


18.6 


2.5 


10 


Salisbury 


27.5 


21.9 


20 


75 


Warwick 


22.7 


21 


7.5 


19 













Simon found that after the introduction of sanitary improvements, con- 
sisting chiefly of the installation of sewerage and a better water-supply, the 
death rate from disease was decreased in nineteen out of the twenty-five 
English towns studied by him the average reduction of mortality in these 
nineteen municipalities being 10.5 per cent. With respect to typhoid 
fever, there was a reduction in twenty-one towns out of twenty-four ; the 
average reduction in deaths from this cause being 45.4 per cent. In nine 
of these towns the reduction amounted to over 50 per cent., and in one 
town to over 75 per cent. 

Oldright gives the following figures as illustrating the corresponding 
decrease in typhoid fever which resulted from the gradual establishment of 
sanitary improvements in several German cities: 



City. 


Period. 


Sanitary 
condition. 


Death rate 
per 1,000 
rrom ty- 
phoid fever. 


Period. 


Change* In sanitary 
condition. 


Death 
rate per 
1.000 
from 
typhoid 
fever. 


Frankfort - on- 
the-Main. 
Dantzic 


1854-59 
1865-69 


No sewers. 
No sewers, 


.87 
1.08 


1875-80 
1871-75 


Sewerage com- 
pleted. 
Water-supply in- 


.24 
.90 


Munich 


1854-59 


no proper 
water sup- 
ply. 
No regula- 


2.42 


1878-80 
1860-65 


troduced. 
Sewerage added. 

Sides and bottoms 


.18 
1.68 






tions for 
keeping soil 
clean. 




1866-73 
1876-80 

1881-S4 


of cesspools ce- 
mented. 
Partial sewerage. 
Sewerage im- 
proved. 
Sewerage still fur 
ther improved. 


1.83 
.87 

.17 



The decreased liability to the contraction of typhoid fever where there 
is a general sewerage system, as compared with dry -earth closets, has 
already been noted. 



642 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Sewerage Systems. Sewers may carry off storm water, excreta and 
liquid waste ; liquid waste and excreta ; or finally, liquid waste alone. The 
first or so-called combined system is generally used in our posts ; the heavy 
rains occurring from time to time being of much advantage in flushing out 
and scouring the sewer channels. The separate system, carrying only 
liquid waste and excreta, costs less for construction, need be of no great 
sue and hence can be more thoroughly flushed and is more liable to run 
full. The pipes may be closely proportioned in size to the daily flow of 
sewage, which can be calculated with some degree of accuracy from the 
amount of the water-supply. Separate sewers have no special advantage 
for military posts except in the tropics, where the long dry season and 
subsequent period of torrential rains would render a combined system, 
operating satisfactorily under all conditions, unduly expensive in both con- 
struction and operation. In the third class are included those sewers 
which merely remove waste-water from habitations; the solid excreta 
being disposed by the dry-earth system, as at Forts Sill, Bayard and other 
posts. The sewage removed from barracks, however, is a very complex 
liquid where all liquid wastes are removed by the same water-carriage sys- 
tem. The kitchen-waters contain vegetable and animal refuse, and those 
from baths and lavatories carry soap and detritus from the surface of the 
body and resulting from the washing of clothing. To 
these is generally added more or less urine, and in a few 
instances a small number of water-closets may discharge 
into the sewerage system. Clearly the sewage from liquid 
waste alone may be so impure that there is no sanitary 
advantage in providing for the disposal of the excreta, 
either solid or liquid, by any separate system. 

Construction of Sewers. In the separate sewerage 
system, where the amount of sewage is fairly constant, 
the pipes are small and frequently run nearly full, a cir- 
cular form of pipe gives satisfactory results. If storm-waters are also ad- 
mitted to the sewerage system, however, conduits of this shape carry their 
contents slowly and with only feeble force except at such times as storm 
waters are passing ; faecal and other solid matters accumulate along the side 
and flushing is difficult. Under such conditions, where a variable flow 
must be provided for, the best form of sewer is that which is ovate in 
transverse section ; since this shape, with the small end down, affords suffi- 
cient space for a temporarily increased outflow and presents the advantage 
of a deep narrow stream, by which the deposition of sewage is prevented 
and the maximum scouring effect is secured with the least quantity of 
water. Engineers advise that all sewers over eighteen inches in diameter 
be built in this form. It appears to be accepted that the best shape for 
sewers of this general type is where the horizontal diameter is two-thirds 
of the vertical height, the radius describing the invert being one-fourth 
the horizontal diameter. The semicircle drawn upon the horizontal dia- 
meter becomes the upper part of the sewer, while the segment drawn ofa the 
radius becomes the invert. 

It sometimes happens that, impressed with the desirability of removing 
sewage from habitations, post authorities have used wooden drains, in the 
absence of more desirable material, as a means for its discharge. It is 




DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 543 




FlO. 380. -Box 
Drain. Placed 
Angle Down so as 
to Avoid Deposit. 



only a short time before such conduits become leaky, clogged and saturated 
by their contents and thus become long permanent cesspools. Such 
improvised arrangements are to be condemned. If higher authority per- 
mits their use in spite of protest, as has been done, at least they should 
not be laid Hat, as is usually the case, but should be set 
at an angle so as to give the fluid its greatest possible 
depth and force and thus prevent deposit. 

As to material', large sewers are generally made of 
brick, set in cement and given a smooth inside coating of 
the same material. In the construction of brick sewers, 
they must be strongly put together and set on a firm bed, 
as otherwise they are liable to settle and develop inequali- 
ties in their level. Sewers less than eighteen to twenty - 
four inches in diameter are generally made of well-glazed vitrified earthen- 
ware pipe. The strength of these is usually tested by placing heavy 
weights on them or by dropping weights upon them when in the trench. 
The best test, however, is that of hydraulic pressure from the inside, for 
pipes which have tire-cracks and outwardly appear to be of }>oor quality 
will often stand this natural test more satisfactorily than those of better 
general appearance. Iron pipes must be used when any unusual strain or 
pressure has to be borne, as where the sewage is carried across a ravine. 

The pipe most commonly used is the cylinder having a socket at one 
end into which the next pipe fits to form a joint. The space between the 
spigot and the socket is generally filled with cement to make the joint 
water-tight, but care must be taken that this material does not penetrate to 
the interior of the pipe and afterward serve as an obstruction to the flow of 
sewage. To prevent the cement from passing through the joint, tarred 
gaskets are generally used ; a luting of clay is sometimes employed for the 
same purpose, but this is less satisfactory as it is washed out of the joints 

in a short time. After cementing, each 
joint should be carefully examined on 
the inside, and any cement which 
may have been pushed into the in- 
terior should be removed before the 

YJ^EQ ^^^^^ next ^c^ 011 f pi? 6 is ^id. Joints 
Hi ^B made in this manner are water-tight 

\^N and excellently resist the disruptive 

I^^BES V\ encroachments of the roots of trees; 

H ^^k once set, however, pipes thus laid are 
very solid and cannot be opened for 
examination, in case of stoppage, ex- 
cept by breaking one of the sections. 
Sewers should of course be water-tight, 
and a cemented joint has much to 
commend it on this account. Laveran 
states that in certain French garrison towns, where the subsoil has been 
contaminated by leakage from sewers, the subsequent opening up of 
trenches in such polluted ground has been invariably followed by outbreaks 
of typhoid fever. 

Want of attention to the foundation of sewers, especially where earthen- 




Fio. 361. Common Modifications of Sewer Pipe. 
A. T-pIpe, for use in ventilating and for in- 
spection openings: II, Y-pipe; (\ V-plpe. for 
Junction where the main drain runs in a di- 
rection different from cither branch ; D, bend 
or elbow.; K. diminishing pipe; F, Increas- 
ing pipe ; H, an offset, for accomplishing u 
slight deflection In direction. 




544 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ware piping is used, is one of the most common causes of deposit and of 
sewage pollution of the soil. The foundation upon which the sewer rests 
should be tirm and solid : if pipes are used, small excavations should be 
made to receive the shoulders, so that these should not be called upon to 
bear the entire weight of pipe, contents and overlying earth, with no sup- 
port beneath the body of the pipe to prevent it from cracking or breaking. 
Provision must also sometimes be made for carrying off the ground-water 
by the use of loosely jointed drains or a combination sewer-pipe in which 
a flat, hollow bottom forms a porous subsoil drain. Where the ground 
water is very high, as at Jackson Barracks, it is often impossible to con- 
struct underground sewers and cemented open drains may be used under 
such conditions. 

The direction of a sewer should be as straight as possible in order to 
maintain the maximum velocity of flow ; if it requires to be changed, the 
curves should be gradual the radius of the curve being not less than ten 
times the cross-sectional diameter of the sewer. Where sewer pipes are 
so laid that the alignment is imperfect in both the horizontal and vertical 
planes, the depressions will serve for the accumulation of matters which 

generate foul gases. In some instances, the in- 
equalities of level may be sufficient to form run- 
ning-traps and thus divide the sewer into dead 
sections ; but with any inequality of level in the 
floor of the sewer the movement of its contents 
is materially hindered. Thus the sewerage sys- 
tem at Fort Huachuca, in 1896, had to be opened 
up for this reason. Junctions of sewers should 
FIG. 2e2.-impn>per and Proper b 6 made at acute ^ not at right angles, as the 
Drahfpf Junction ln 8ewer or interruption of the stream and the eddies thus 

formed will cause a deposit which, once com- 
menced, rapidly increases in bulk. Sewers of unequal sectional diameter 
should not join with level inverts, but the lesser or tributary sewer should 
have a fall into the main sewer at least equal to the difference in the 
sectional diameter. If a manhole is used for the junction, the bottom can 
always be so constructed as to give the required flow in the direction of 
the movement of the main current. As a general tiling, when a small 
sewer pipe has to be received in a larger one, an " increasing " pipe is used 
to prevent a bad joint. 

After the sewer has been laid and before the trench has been filled in, 
the pipe should be tested for strength and tightness by temporarily fixing 
a bend and two lengths of pipe so as to give four or five feet of water 
pressure. Any leaky joints which may be found can be made tight by 
embedding them in concrete or cement. The water should not be dis- 
charged from the pipes until the filling-up of the trench has been com- 
pleted, since any cracking or breakage resulting from the operation of fill- 
ing will thus be shown by subsidence in the water-level. 

A good sewer, properly laid, is indestructible except by violence ; w hile 
a poor line, poorly constructed, is a never-ending source of trouble, ex- 
lense and danger. Large sewer systems cannot be properly laid by un- 
skilled workmen and inexpert overseers. 

Size of Sewers. The probable amount of sewage requiring removal 




DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 645 

should be estimated in advance, and the size of the sewer proportioned 
accordingly. If the conduit be too small, there will be flooding of the 
connections with the lower portion of the sewer, or system of sewers, with 
every sudden influx of storm water; if sewers are too large, there is need- 
less expense of construction, sluggish flow and opportunity for the develop- 
ment of putrefactive processes in their contents. In general, sewers hav- 
ing a diameter of less than nine inches are liable to obstruction and cannot 
be recommended ; the usual temptation in regard to sewers, however, is to 
have them too large, when the rapidity of the flow of the sewage is dimin- 
ished and waste lodges instead of being carried off. 

In estimating the probable amount of sewage requiring disposal, the 
water-supply of a garrison may be considered as furnishing an amount of 
sewage of equal quantity. In opposition to the condition in a growing 
town, in a military post the maximum strength of the garrison of which is 
known in advance no allowance need be made for possible future growth 
in establishing the sewerage system. Where both the sewage and rainfall 
are carried off by a common conduit, the amount and character of the 
rains must be considered violent storms taxing the sewers more than fre- 
quent gentle showers. The space occupied by the military population, 
because of the area from which storm-waters must be discharged, is of the 
much importance, and with a scattered population the difficulties of sewer- 
age are much increased ; the configuration of the surface and character of 
the soil also have much to do with the size of sewers, since a considerable 
portion of the rainfall sinks in a flat, sandy surface. The configuration 
may likewise cause engineering difficulties, while the existerice of rock or 
sand may also prove to be an obstacle in respect to construction or perma- 
nence. It is evident that, with respect to the size of sewers, the question 
is so complicated where rain-water is disposed of by the same system that 
it is impossible to lay down any fixed rules, applicable to all conditions, 
with respect to the si/e of the main channel. The matter must be ap- 
proached differently in each individual case, and with a full consideration 
of all the factors concerned. Having ascertained the maximum amount 
of sewage to be provided for, the size of the conduit and rate of flow can 
readily be determined. 

Velocity of Flow in Sewers. The force which removes sewage 
is gravitation, and this is enabled to exert its power by reason of the liquid 
condition of the sewage for the solid constituents of the latter are rela- 
tively insignificant. The velocity of the stream in sewers is dependent not 
only upon their slope or fall but upon their shape, interior smoothness and 
even gradient, together with the volume and equability of the flow. The 
velocity also varies to some extent with the nature of the material to be 
carried and the facilities for flushing. The minimum velocity in sewers 
is at the bottom of the stream ; it is upon this velocity that the scouring 
of the channel depends. Baldwin-Latham advises that sewers twelve to 
twenty-four inches in diameter should have a gradient sufficient to produce 
a velocity of not less than two and one-half feet per second. Rankin 
states that the velocity of flow in any sewer should not exceed four and 
one-half feet per second, and Rawlinson regards four feet per second as the 
greatest allowable velocity. A rate of six feet per second would be de- 
structive to sewers; and probably the best rate of speed for conduits of 
35 



646 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY -HYGIENE. 



ordinary size is slightly more than half that figure. The question of 
allowing proper grade is of much importance ; thus at Fort Ringgold an 
insufficient allowance in the original planning of the fall of the sewer has 
resulted in its repeated clogging. 

As showing the scouring force possessed by various bottom- velocities in 
preventing the clogging of sewers, Beardmore states that the following rates 
of movement have the effect stated on the different materials particularized : 
30 feet per minute will not disturb clay with sand and stones; 40 will 
move along coarse sand; 60 will move fine gravel, size of peas; 120 will 
move rounded pebbles one inch in diameter; 180 will move angular stones 
one and one-third inches in diameter. 

Gradient of Sewers. Sewers must be laid at a proper inclination, 
since otherwise obstruction will occur on the one hand, or a too great 
velocity of discharge will test the integrity of the sewer-pipe system on the 
other. For efficient action, small sewers require a greater inclination than 
large ones. To prevent deposit in sewers from six to nine inches in diam- 
eter, a velocity of not less than three feet per second should be secured ; for 
sewers of twelve to twenty-four inches in diameter the velocity should not 
be less than two and one-half feet per second, and for larger sewers two feet 
per second. These velocities would require a fall of 1 in 140 to 1 in 200 
for pipes six to nine inches in diameter; of 1 in 400 to 1 in 800 for pipes 
of twelve to twenty-four inches in diameter, and for larger sewers of 1 in 
244 to 1 in 784, according to size. The fall should be equable, without 
sudden changes of level. 

To show the inclination required to produce different velocities of flow 
in pipes of various calibers, Baldwin-Latham gives the following figures : 



Diameter In Inches. 


RATE OF INCLINATION FOR VELOCITY PKR SECOND. 


Two feet. 


Three feet. 


Four feet. 


Five feet 


Six feet. 


4.. 


1 in 194 
1 " 292 
1 " 389 
1 " 437 
1 " 486 
1 " 583 


lin 92 
1 " 137 
1 " 18.3 
1 " 206 
1 " 229 
1 " 275 


lin 53 
1 " 80 
1 " 106 
1 " 119 
1 " 133 
1 " 159 


lin 84 
1 " 51 
1 " 69 
1 " 77 
1 " 86 
1 " 108 


1 in 24 
1 u 36 
1 " 48 
1 " 54 
1 " 60 
1 " 72 


6 


8 


9 


10 


12 





For circular pipes, the following may.be considered as the maximum 
allowable falls: Four-inch pipes, 1 in 36; six-inch pipe, 1 in 60; nine- 
inch pipe, 1 in 90. These estimates are based on the assumption that the 
pipes are running full or half-full. 

Where sewage has to be carried down from a considerable height, the 
great difference in level constitutes no practical difficulty ; since the inter- 
nal pressure can be prevented from becoming excessive by the establish- 
ment of disconnecting manholes at frequent intervals. 

Discharge from Sewers. To calculate the discharge from ^sewers, 
Notter and Firth recommend the following formula : 

V = 55 x (V U x 2 F) 

In this, V = velocity in feet per minute ; D = hydraulic mean depth in 
feet ; F = fall in feet per mile. Then if A = section-area of current of fluid, 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 647 

V A = discharge in cubic feet per minute. To use this formula, the 
hydraulic mean depth when the sewage is flowing, and the amount of fall 
in feet per mile, must be ascertained. The hydraulic mean depth is the 
section-area of the current of fluid divided by the wetted perimeter. In 
cy-cular pipes it is always one-fourth the diameter; whether running full, 
half-full or otherwise. In egg-shaped sewers, the hydraulic mean depth 
varies with the amount of water flowing through them, but in sewers con- 
structed on the usual plan, where the transverse diameter is two-thirds of 
the vertical, the hydraulic mean depth is as follows : Running full, trans- 
verse diameter X .2897; two-thirds full, transverse diameter X .3157; 
one-third full, transverse diameter X .2066. 

The wetted perimeter is that part of the circumference of the pipe 
wetted by the fluid. In an egg-shaped sewer, under these three conditions, 
it equals the transverse diameter multiplied by 3.9649, 2.3941 and 1.3747 
resj>ectively. The fall in feet per mile is easily obtained, as the fall in one 
hundred or two hundred feet can easily be measured and the fall per mile 
calculated from this by dividing 5,280 by the denominator of the fraction. 

Bailey -Denton has calculated the discharge from different sized pipes, 
running full at different velocities, as follows : 



Diameter 
of pipe in 
inches. 


Velocity three feet per second. 
Delivery in gallons per minute. 


Velocity four and one-half feet 
per second. Delivery in 
gallons per minute. 


Velocity six feet per second. 
Delivery in gallons per minute. 


8 


54 


81 


IDS 


4 


96 


144 


192 


6 


216 


824 


482 


9 


495 


7425 


990 











Sewer-air. The rise and fall of sewage, with alternate wetting and 
drying of the walls of the conduit, favor putrefaction of organic deposits 
with the formation of gases of the absence of which the fact that no foul 
odor is apparent is no proof. 

Contrary to the opinion long entertained, sewer-air does not appear to 
be particularly hurtful to the organism, save in so far as it may favor the 
occurrence of disease through depression of the powers of vital resistance. 
A few instances of acute mephitic poisoning of an intense degree have been 
recorded ; but usually the early symptoms resulting from the breathing of 
sewer-air are not especially marked. When the air of sewers penetrates 
into houses, and especially into bed-rooms, it may ultimately cause a greatly 
impaired state of health, especially in children. The latter lose appetite, 
become pale and languid, and suffer from diarrhoea; older persons suffer 
from headaches, malaise and feverishness ; there is often some degree of 
an;i niia and it is clear that the process of aeration of the blood is not per- 
fectly carried on. In some cases, decided febrile attacks lasting three or 
four days, attended with great headache and anorexia, have been known. 
Houses into which there has been a continued escape of sewer-gas have 
been so notoriously unhealthy that no persons would live in them, and this 
has been not only from the prevalence of fever, but from other diseases 
also. Rawlinson mentions the fact that when the wind blew into the open 
mouths of the sewers of the military hospitals at Scutari, during the Cri- 
mean War, there was an accession of fever cases among the sick, and those 



548 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

already existing took on a more aggravated type. There appears to be 
some relation between defective plumbing and outbreaks of typhoid fever 
and diphtheria, particularly the latter, but no direct proof of such a causal 
relation has as yet been adduced. It may be that the sewer-gases, by giv- 
ing rise to a relaxed and unhealthy condition of the mucous membrane of 
the throat, may increase the liability to attack by diphtheria in the event 
of subsequent exposure to a specific infection. 

In connection with the possible relation of sewer-air to specific dis- 
eases, some interesting experiments by Alessi are of value. This investi- 
gator noted the effect of the inhalation of sewer-air and the gases from 
putrefying materials upon animals rats, rabbits and guinea-pigs being 
selected. After exposure to sewer-air, which was accomplished by placing 
the animals in a box with a perforated bottom communicating directly 
with a drain, each was inoculated with a small quantity of only a slightly 
virulent cultivation of the typhoid-fever bacillus ; while other animals were 
similarly treated, except that they were not compelled to inhale sewer-air 
but were kept in their ordinary surroundings. Infected rats, after breath- 
ing this more or less foul air, began to lose their vivacity and after a time 
grew thin, although they ate voraciously; out of forty -nine which were 
inoculated with the enteric-fever bacillus, thirty-seven died, exhibiting the 
typical symptoms of enteric-fever infection. Of the forty-one rats, however, 
which although infected with enteric fever had not breathed sewer-air, only 
three succumbed. Thus the inspiration of drain-air had so far predisposed 
these animals to infection from enteric fever that a small dose of an al- 
most harmless growth of this organism proved fatal to them. Guinea-pigs 
and rabbits, exposed in like manner to gases from materials in a condition 
of active decomposition, also acquired a predisposition to typhoid infection ; 
for out of seventy-two guinea-pigs inoculated, fifty-seven died, while not 
one of those treated with the infective agent of enteric fever, under ordinary 
surroundings, succumbed. Similarly every one of eleven rabbits, treated 
and exposed to sewer-air, died, while not one of the inoculated animals lost 
its life when kept in fresh air. Alessi also found that the inhalation of gases 
from putrid substances enabled a small dose of a weakened culture of the 
bacillus coli communis, normally present in the intestine, to produce fatal 
results when purposely introduced into the animals thus exposed. He 
also ascertained that it was during the first two weeks of exposure to nox- 
ious gases that the animals were most easily predisposed to enteric-fever 
infection, for no less than ninety per cent, of all the animals inoculated 
during the first fortnight died, while seventy-six per cent, succumbed of 
those inoculated in the third week. This fact, Alessi states, may partly 
explain how it is that some people who habitually breathe contaminated 
air do not appear to suffer any evil results, having in course of time gradu- 
ally become accustomed to it, while strangers exposed to the same condi- 
tions, without previous experience, may suffer very severely. 

The air in sewers is in a constant state of movement from several causes. 
The movement of the sewage may cause a flow of air in the direction of 
its course, while, on the other hand, a strong wind blowing against the 
open mouth of a sewer may drive the contained air back with considerable 
force. Temperature is also an important factor in influencing the move- 
ment of air in sewers its activity increasing with the difference in temper- 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 549 

ature between the sewer-air and that outside. If at any time there is a rapid 
flow of water into a sewer, as in heavy rains, a bulk of air equal to that of 
the entering water must be displaced, this often occurring with great force. 
Out of which end of the 'drain the air passes, supposing the former to be 
unventilated, defends on force of circumstances. It moves readily in the 
line of least resistance, preferably in an upward direction as a result of the 
greater gravity of water. Under such circumstances, it is possible that the 
air-pressure in poorly constructed sewers might be sufficient to force a 
weak water-seal; ordinarily, however, sewers have numerous openings for 
communication with the outer air, and the internal pressure in sewers is 
thus rarely different from that of the external atmosphere. 

The air in house-drains is often even more impure than that of the 
main sewers. This is the case also in other parts of the drainage system, 
and is to be accounted for by the numerous openings in the sewers, by the 
porosity of their walls, and by the amount of water in sewers being often 
so great and its flow so rapid as materially to lessen the deposit of sewage 
and the resulting generation of gases. 

Ventilation and Disconnection of Sewers. To avoid the dangers 
attendant upon the presence of a considerable proportion of sewer-gas in 
closed conduits, measures are taken to ensure its escape into the outer air 
and equalize the pressure within and without the pipes. This is com- 
monly done by the use of man-holes or ventilating shafts, usually the 
former. These are put in at frequent intervals, particularly at points 
where tributary sewers join or where a sewer deviates from a straight 
course. Rawlinson considers that each main sewer should have an open- 
ing every hundred yards; but for ordinary post-sewers, the space between 
ventilating openings may be often several times this distance. 

Man-holes are generally built of bricks, set in in cement ; the drain being 
continued along the floor by half -channel pipes laid in the same substance. 
The cemented surface is raised several inches above the pipe, so as 
to prevent the sewage from overflowing. Ordinarily, gratings are used to 
protect man-holes; terminal man-holes particularly requiring an abun- 
dance of air. The use of pits at the bottom of man-holes, sometimes ad- 
vised, is not to be recommended ; since it favors the deposit of material 
which undergoes putrefaction and gives off offensive odors unless it is con- 
stantly being removed. 

A sewer is disconnected when there is a large vent at the point of con- 
nection with a drain, either protected or not by a running-trap and water- 
seal. By this means the free ingress of fresh air or the exit of foul air, as 
the pressure may determine, is secured. In practice, this is not easy to 
carry out in snowy or very cold climates. 

Care of Sewers. The choking of sewers by deposits is brought 
about by any of the causes favoring sedimentation, such as original bad 
construction, too little fall, sharp curves, sinking of the floor, want of 
water or check of flow by tides. Such deposits may occur to some extent 
in well-made sewers. Even in those of so-called self-cleaning character, 
the changing level leaves a deposit on the walls, which, being alternately 
wet and dry, soon putrefies. In foul channels, a quantity of slimy matter 
often collects on the crown of the sewers, sometimes several inches in 
thickness and generally very offensive in character. Where rain-water en- 



650 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ters sewers it washes them thoroughly at times, but it also carries in a con- 
siderable amount of debris and gravel. If artificial flushing is required, this 
is usually accomplished in the military service by playing the fire-hose 
into it an inefficient method or by suddenly discharging the contents 
of a water-cart into the sewer. Where the quantity of water normally 
j>assing through the sewers is insufficient, it is sometimes advisable to hold 
the sewage back by gates until a sufficient quantity has collected to wash 
the entire channel by its sudden discharge ; or tip-tanks are used for flush- 
ing, which discharge themselves when full. These arrangements are 
particularly necessary where a sufficient fall, to ensure a good flow, cannot 
be obtained in the sewer. Regular flushing is very important in keeping 
sewers clean, and where deposits cannot collect no foul gases are generated. 
Engineers are by no means agreed as to the quantity of water required for 
preventing deposits in sewers intended for the removal of excreta. Brunei 
regards twerity-five gallons per head per diem as the amount required to 
keep sewers clear, and with this he believes that there should be an occa- 
sional allowance for flushing; but in some cases a well-laid sewer and 
good fall require less, and in other cases bad gradients or curves require 
more. 

Cleaning of sewers by other means than flushing has sometimes to be 
resorted to, notwithstanding the fact that theoretically they should be so 
constructed as to be self -cleansing. To facilitate this operation, man-holes, 
inspection-openings and cleansing-openings are provided. Deposits at such 
points can be removed directly, while the cleansing of the channel between 
these openings is accomplished by the use of brushes, wheels and scrapers 
on long jointed rods ; or attached to a rope which has been carried through 
between two man-holes by means of a floating metal globe four inches 
smaller than the diameter of the circular sewer. The pressure of the flow- 
ing sewage under and around this globe, as it is carried through by the 
current, does much to scour out the channel and remove the softer deposits, 
while any firmer material is subsequently broken down by the scraper. 

Local obstructions not rarely occur in the more poorly constructed sew- 
er systems of our posts, as at Forts Ringgold and Huachuca, requiring 
forcible intermittent flushing or even frequent opening of the sewers to 
prevent clogging and remove obstructions. In several instances, as at Fort 
Baker, the roots of trees have forced then- way through the joints of badly 
laid sewers, with resulting leakage and clogging. 

The inspection of sewers is usually a matter of great difficulty, on ac- 
count of the means of direct access being insufficient and the length of the 
sewers being great. A foul and clogged condition is commonly recognized 
by the presence of offensive odors and the damming back of the sewage into 
the afferent drains. 

DRAINAGE AND PLUMBING. 

- 

Drains. By the term drain is meant that conduit which intervenes 
between the waste and soil-pipes and the sewer, and which carries away 
the sewage of a single habitation. Like sewers, drains should be so con- 
structed that there is no leakage, and should be air-tight save at points 
where ventilation is specially provided. Ventilation should be as free as 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 551 

the safety of the water-seal permits. The drain may be of tile outside the 
building but should preferably be of cast iron, with caulked leaden joints 
or wrought-iron screw joints, and should be so located as to be readily ac- 
cessible for inspection within the building. It is generally either hung on 
the cellar wall or suspended from the ceiling ; if this disposition is imprac- 
ticable, it may be laid in a cemented trench having a movable cover. Un- 
der ordinary circumstances, it should not be buried under the cellar flooring ; 
if this appears to be absolutely necessary, the whole pipe may be embedded 
in concrete, so that any fracture will not result in leakage, and should be 
provided with an access opening at each end. Where a drain passes under 
the wall of a building, there should be a relieving arch or some suitable ar- 
rangement to prevent the pipe from being broken by settling of the foun- 
dation. Within the building, the drain should be provided with openings 
to permit of cleansing, these openings 
to be flush with the cellar floor and to 
be closed by brass sewer-plugs. 

Every house-drain should be 
trapped as near as practicable to its 
junction with the public sewer; an 
opening for ventilation being provided 
on the house side of the trap and the 
building and sewer being thus com- 
pletely disconnected. The drain-trap 
should be a running or half- S trap, rio. sea. -section ^Tsu^ch siphon with 
and should be placed so as to be readily 2!!S! ntalll H* PP and Air-shaft, Durban's 

f . ill disconnecting and ventilating drain-pipe.) 

accessible. The drain -pipe should be 

capable of being opened for cleansing purposes by an access-pipe beyond 
the water-seal. Buchan's ventilating and disconnecting trap is much used 
for the disconnection of drains. Some authorities, however, are opposed to 
the drain-trap and favor a free and unobstructed vent from the sewer to the 
roof, furnished by the drain and its ventilating pipe. 

The inclination at which house-drains are laid depends upon the veloc- 
ity of the current desired. This should be sufficient to secure efficient scour- 
ing of the channel without special flushing; but, on the other hand, the 
inclination should not be so great as to allow the liquid portions to flow 
away, leaving the solid matters behind. While the fall to be given a drain 
must be decided according to the special circumstances of each case, it may 
be taken as a general rule that the average house-drain should have a fall in 
about one in fifty. Maguire gives the following rule for determining the 
necessary grade : Multiply the diameter of the drain in inches by ten ; thus 
a four-inch drain should have a fall of one in forty, a six-inch drain of 
one in sixty, and so on. These estimates are based on the supposition 
that the drain will run half-full. When running full, the discharge is of 
course doubled, but the velocity and scouring force have no further increase. 
Where the current is feeble or the fall insufficient, an automatic flush-tank 
may be placed at the upper end of the drain. With respect to the size of 
the drain, one of six inches in diameter will suffice for the needs of a com- 
pany barrack and is more readily kept free from deposit than one of larger 
size. In the drainage of barracks it is customary to put access-plugs at 
each angle of the pipe, to facilitate the removal of clogging material. 




552 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

The junction of pipes with drains, and of drains with sewers, should al- 
ways be made at acute angles, since otherwise stoppage is liable to result. 
Like sewers, drains are usually cleaned outside the building by means of 
man-holes, through which these wage flows in half-round pipes. Within 
the building, access-pipes are used for this purpose. The use of movable 
caps, sometimes advised, is of no advantage under such circumstances; 
and leakage is liable to occur after the cap has once been removed. Drain 
pipes should be regularly flushed, and cleaned when necessary. The latter 
is generally done by flexible bamboo or jointed rods, provided with screws 
and rollers to loosen the sediment. With straight drains, obstructions are 
of course more easily detected and removed. The stoppage of drains may 
be noted by throwing milk of lime into a sink or closet and watching for 
its appearance in the man-hole disconnecting the house-drain and sewer. 

The spouts for the conduction of rain-water from roofs should discharge 
in the open air over trapped gratings having a catch-box for gravel. Some- 
times these rain-leaders have opened directly into the drain, as at Fort 
Bayard, and acted as ventilators for the latter the foul air being thus 
often conducted to the vicinity of windows. All waste-pipes and overflow- 
pipes should terminate in the open air 
like rain-leaders, and be thus cut off 
from direct communication with drains. 
Soil-Pipes. - - The soil-pipe re- 
ceives the discharges from water-clos- 
ets and conducts them to the drain. 
All things considered, wrought-iron 
screw- jointed pipes are probably the 
best for this purpose, thus avoiding any 
leaky jointing. Drawn-lead pipes are 

FIG. 364. Disconnecting Chamber, In Longltu- . i 

dinai section. excellent, but are both costly and heavy ; 

seamed-lead pipes should not be used. 

Cast-iron pipes are cheaper, but they must be strong and have their inner 
surface as smooth as possible. Castings are not rarely of uneven thick- 
ness ; and, as with a rope, the strength of a line of piping is its weakest 
point. Where air-bubbles are present to weaken the material, the strength 
of the pipes may be tested by sharp hammering. To give a smooth inside 
finish and prevent rusting, iron pipes are sometimes given special treat- 
ment. Angus Smith's process consists in dipping the clean pipe into a 
bath of coal tar, pitch and linseed oil, heated to a temperature of 400 F. 
The Barff process consists in producing a coating of black oxide of iron by 
exposing the clean pipe for eight or ten hours to a temperature of 1,200 
F. in an atmosphere of super-heated steam. The use of artificially coated 
pipes is, however, being discontinued. All junctions in th soil-pipe must 
be solidly made. Cast-iron pipes are joined by pouring molten lead into 
the sockets when the lengths are in position, a small packing of oakum hav- 
ing previously been introduced to prevent the liquid metal from penetrating 
to the inside of the pipe ; when cold, the lead is driven home with a caulk- 
ing iron. Lead is joined to iron by tipping the leaden pipe with a brass 
ferrule, which is afterward caulked into'the iron with melted lead. Where 
lead pipes are made to connect with earthenware closets, the joint is 
usually made tight by the use of red lead. Throughout the installation 




DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 663 

of the soil-pii>e, every joint should be made with a view to its being tested 
under hydraulic pressure. Particularly where the whole circumference of 
the pipe is not easily accessible, this test will often reveal serious leakage 
around caulked joints. 

The descent of the soil-pipe should be as direct as possible, and when 
carried laterally the pipe should have a decided grade with but few turns. 
Where such turns are necessary, they should be as gradual as possible. 
The water-closet pipe-should join the soil-pipe at an acute angle, and by 
as short a length of pipe as possible. The outlet of the soil-pipe should be 
full bore and should join the main drain at an acute angle. Provision 
should be made so that the pipe can be opened at this point for inspection 
and cleaning, since it is particularly at this junction that obstruction is 
liable to occur. For company barracks, soil-pipe four inches in diameter 
is of sufficient size. The pipe itself should be carried up full bore above 
the roof, terminating away from all windows or chimneys. Sometimes 
an upcast ventilating cowl is placed over the open top; Waring, how- 
ever, prefers to use no cowl but to make the top of the soil-pipe flare 
slightly. In hot climates, soil-pipes should be protected against the direct 
rays of the sun, so as to avoid their becoming bent or their joints from 
opening from expansion. 

However carefully the soil and drain-pipe system is constructed, a cer- 
tain amount of sliming of its walls is unavoidable ; the putrefaction of such 
adherent material giving rise to dangerous and offensive gases. These 
should be removed by ventilation, which requires two openings for its 
efficient action. The latter are secured by extending the soil-pipe 
through the roof, with a vent of full size communicating with it by a 
branch pipe outside the house. This arrangement, from the greater 
warmth of the house, creates a constant current of pure air through the 
soil-pipe. When the closet is used, the current of air is of course re- 
versed, as a result of the passage of the water downward through the pipe. 
If the water-seal of the closet should fail from any cause, by this ar- 
rangement fairly pure air and not sewer-gas would escape into the build- 
ing, and thus the danger from accidentally unsealed traps is materially 
lessened. Where the drain is long, it is sometimes advisable to place a 
disconnecting trap and water-seal close to the building, so that the air 
circulating in the soil-pipe may be as free from sewer-gas as possible. By 
this arrangement, also, back-pressure against the water-seals of interior 
traps, either through the production of gases by putrefaction or by a forci- 
ble and sudden flushing of water, is thus prevented. 

Traps. It is highly important to prevent the entrance into habita- 
tions of air from pipes soiled with excreta or waste-water ; a result sure to 
occur unless means are taken to prevent the aspiration of the foul air into 
the building by reason of the greater warmth of the latter. Experience 
has shown that simple water-seals afford the most efficient means of ex- 
cluding such sewer-gas ; all mechanical devices for this purpose, such as 
valves, t)alls and plungers, being uncertain in action and hence unsatisfac- 
tory. To provide an efficient barrier against the passage of air, a depthof 
water of at least three-fourths of an inch, standing above the highest level 
of water in the curve of the trap, should be provided. It is true that 
sewer-gas dissolves in water to some extent; but as the supply in the 



564 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

traps is frequently renewed, this need cause no inconvenience in practice. 
All fixtures should be so trapped that while exclusion of foul air is as- 
sured, at the same time all filth shall be immediately carried away by 
Hushing and the trap refilled with fresh water. Every portion of a trap 
should be scoured out with each flush, but this thoroughness of action 
by no means necessarily involves any waste of water. Many traps are so 
constructed, as the mid-feather and D-traps, that no amount or velocity 
of water can clean them. The inner surface of water-closet traps should 
be perfectly smooth, with no projecting portions to retain filth which 
implies their construction of earthenware or enamelled iron. The general 
disadvantages of traps are that they furnish a check to the flow of water 
through the pipes and an obstacle to the escape of solids. In special in- 
stances, traps are ineffective by means of bad laying, fouling from use, in- 
sufficient flushing and loss of the water-seal. 

The factors tending to destroy water-seals are : Siphonage, back -press- 
ure, evaporation, capillary action, accumulation of sediment and leakage. 
The first three depend on the action of the surrounding atmosphere the 
last three have relation to the character of the trap and 
the nature of the substances which enter into it. 

Siphonage results from the action of a heavy column 
of water falling down a soil-pipe from one fixture and 
thus producing a partial vacuum, as a result of which the 
equilibrium of the seal in another fixture is broken by 
atmospheric pressure within the closet. Trap-siphonage 
_ may also depend upon the rapid discharge of water through 

no. 285. - vented an unvented closet-pipe, where the seal may be broken 
Trap. by the sheer momentum of the mass of escaping water. 

Small pipes and shallow water-seals are much more liable to 
siphonage than are large pipes and deep seals. Where two siphons succeed 
each other in the same pipe, without a sufficient connection with the outer 
air between them, the lower siphon will suck the other dry. Back-press- 
ure results from the descent of a heavy column of water in a main soil- 
pipe to near its end, where there is an abrupt bend or some other obstacle 
to the escape of the air which has been compressed in front of it. The 
latter, moving in the direction of least resistance, may pass up a branch 
pipe and force the water-seal. To produce back-pressure, the descending 
column of water must have acquired considerable velocity and there must 
be an impediment to the escape of air before it. The fixture whose trap 
is forced will therefore be near the bottom of the soil-pipe. The pressure 
of sewer-gas by itself will rarely be sufficient to force a water-seal. Back- 
pressure and siphonage are complementary and both cannot occur in the 
same fixture. 

Both back-pressure and siphonage may be avoided by equalizing the 
air-pressure within and without the pipe, by venting the latter in the top 
of the bend by a pipe which opens into the outside air or into a general vent- 
pipe. The vent-pipe should have the same diameter as that of the trap-pipe, 
since the object of such venting may be readily defeated if the pipe be so 
small that the necessary amount of air cannot be admitted in a given time. 
Sometimes the same result is brought about by clogging of the vent-open- 
ing from the accumulation of waste matters washed into it during the use 




DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 565 



of the trap. Friction also must be considered in this connection and the 
vent-pipe should thus be as short and straight as possible, for the resis- 
tance produced by the walls of a long, narrow and perhaps tortuous chan- 
nel may be a greater obstruction than the inertia of 
a light body of water in the trap. On the other 
hand, too free access of air greatly increases the lia- 
bility to loss of the water-seal from evaporation. 
Where vent-pipes are used with a number of traps, 
they are usually made to unite in a single ventilat- 
ing pipe, which may end above the roof like the 
soil-pipe or open into the latter at a point just above 
the highest fixture. 

The seals of traps are often broken as a result 
of evaporation ; the rapidity of the process varying 
with the temperature and movement of air over the 
water surfaces. As just mentioned, the process of 
evaporation is greatly accelerated by the use of 
vent-pipes and such a vent has been shown some- 
times to destroy a water-seal through evaporation in 
less than a week. To overcome this fault of vent- 
pipes and still avoid the dangers of siphonage, special 
devices have been put on the market. Among these, 
the " Sanitas trap " gives excellent results. In this 
apparatus, a projecting reservoir having an inside pro- 
tection of fine wire-gauze is screwed into the farther 
arm of an S-trap at about the height of the water 
level. As water and excreta are flushed through the 
trap, reverse currents are formed by which the side 
reservoir is filled with fluid while the solids are car- 
ried off through the escape-pipe. As soon as all the 
water in the trap has been discharged, the bend in 
the trap is refilled by the water which runs out of 
the reservoir as soon as the pressure is relaxed. As 
the reservoir of this trap ultimately collects a certain amount of solid 

material, the former, usually made of heavy glass, 
should be unscrewed from time to time to permit 
of cleansing. 

Traps are occasionally emptied of their water 
by capillary action ; which results where a rag or 
bit of string has one end passed up over the fur- 
ther bend of the trap, while the other end is im- 
mersed in the liquid. The water in the trap is 
rapidly removed under such conditions. 

Unsealing of its water-trap is sure to occur 
if a fixture remains unused for a certain length 
of time, this depending on the warmth of the 
weather or room and on the depth of the water in the trap. Hence vacant 
barracks and quarters should be given attention in this respect, since where 
the seal is broken the building is soon filled with sewer-gases. This is es- 
pecially important in the case of double quarters or barracks, since neglect 




Fio. 386. Method of Con- 
nee tin ft Water-cloneta 
with Soil-pipe, together 
with Venting of Traps. 




Fio. 367. "Sanitas" Non-Vented 
Trap. 



656 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 268. .4, Running trap; B, 8- 
trap ; C, three-quarter S-trap ; D, 
half S-trap. 




of this kind in one set affects the sanitary condition of the adjoining quar- 
ters. Where buildings are to be long vacated, and periodic flushing of the 
traps cannot be relied upon, the water-seals can be prevented from being de- 
stroyed by pouring a little oil into the fixtures. 
The back part of the seal is protected in the 
same way, the oil being passed in through a 
curved pipe beyond the bend in the trap. 

A temporary obstruction in an ordinary 
siphon water-closet trap may be cleared away 
by making up a soft swab on the end of a stick, 
so that the whole shall have a diameter about 
equal to the bore of the siphon, and working 
it up and down like a piston after the trap has 
been filled with water. Obstructions of a fairly 
soft nature are thus readily expelled and forced into the soil-pipe. An ex- 
amining eye is often put in siphon traps to facilitate cleansing ; but when 
this is located over the bend, clogging results and the flow is retarded. 

Traps are made in an almost infinite variety of forms, but nearly all 
those now employed are made by bending an ordinary pipe to a greater or 
less extent, so that a body of water completely closes 
off the lumen of the pipe. Traps of this character are 
not only the most simple but also the most satisfactory. 
The common forms are the running trap a shallow 
bend in a nearly horizontal pipe the S, half-S and 
three-fourths S. Sometimes these bends are enlarged so 
as to prevent siphonage, but such pot-traps collect much 
solid material and practically become nothing but small 
cess-pools. The ordinary running-trap is sometimes made with two openings 
beside the inlet and outlet, by which cleansing of the further side of the trap 
and ventilation of the hither side may be secured. This trap usually has a 
flat external bottom wliich ensures its being laid level. Buchan' s trap merely 
has an access-pipe for cleaning the drain beyond the water-seal. The sewage 
enters the trap with considerable fall, so that the latter is flushed clean. 

Mechanical devices have sometimes been used to increase the efficiency 
of a water-seal or guard against its loss. Thus in Bowers' trap a rubber 
ball is buoyed by the water against the mouth of the pipe 
leading from the fixture. The discharge, in passing, tem- 
porarily displaces it ; but it immediately resumes its guard, 
closing the aperture so long as sufficient water remains to 
float it into position. Mechanical closures of traps, what- 
ever their character, are not only wholly superfluous but 
dangerous, since opportunity is afforded for the lodgment 
of filth and the proper operation of the trap, after this has 
occurred, cannot always be ensured. 

Another bad form of trap, which requires special no- 
tice because some of this pattern are still in use in our 
service, is the D-trap. In this apparatus there is a large surface which be- 
comes coated with filth and generates foul air. The trap is generally rect- 
angular in section, and has many sharp angles, projections and recesses 
by which the deposit of filth is favored. 



FIG. 389. B u c h a n ' s 
Trap. 




FIG. 270. Bowers 
Trap. 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 557 




Fio.271. D-Trap. (After 
Hotter and Firth.) 




The mid-feather or dip-trap, sometimes used in connection with drains, 
is merely a box having an entry at one side and a discharge pipe at the 
other, with between them a partition reaching below the level of the pipes, 
so that its lower edge is always to some extent under water. The trap is 
not self-cleansing, and heavy substances subside and 
collect in the box. Its disadvantages are obvious. 

Somewhat analogous to this trap, the flap-trap 
is sometimes used ; it possessing a hinged valve which 
allows water to pass in one direction, but which is so 
hung as to allow it to close by its own weight. It is 
intended to prevent reflux of water from sewers into 
the secondary drains, and is also supposed to prevent 
the passage of sewer-gas, for which purpose it is a very 
imperfect safeguard. 

The ordinary form of gully -trap is a very simple 
and efficient apparatus so far as the drainage of yard 

and rain-water pipes is concerned. It is in- 
tended to retain sand, gravel and other heavy ma- 
terial which may be carried im by the water and 
thus prevent clogging of the pipes. It is essen- 
tial that the catch-basin be periodically cleaned 
out and any deposits removed. To facilitate 
this, a bucket with a lifting handle is sometimes 
made to tit accurately in the reservoir of the trap. 
Areas on which water may accumulate are 
often drained by the use of the bell-trap. In 
this apparatus, a perforated metal plate permits the water 
to enter a basin which lies underneath it, and when this 
water rises to a certain height it overflows into a central 
pipe which carries it into the drain. A hemispherical cup 
attached by its bottom to the under surface of the plate 
makes a loosely-fitting cover for the mouth of the pipe, 
and, by dipping into the water contained in the basin, pre- 
vents the escape of emanations from the drain. This form 
of trap is very defective from a sanitary standpoint and 
should not be used. It is unsealed whenever the bell 
cover is left off and the small quantity of water which forms 
the water-seal soon evaporates. In order to hasten the 
flow of water through the discharge pipe, the cover is frequently removed, 

leaving the waste pipe untrapped. The bell is 
also easily broken off from the perforated plate, 
in which case the seal is destroyed and sewer- 
gas escapes. 

Testing of Plumbing. "Sanitary engi- 
neers consider that an unusual smell is gener- 
ally the first evidence of something wrong, and 
that when this is traced to its source the evil 
is half cured. If the basement smells generally offensive, a leaking drain- 
pipe, badly jointed or broken by settlement, may be searched for, and where 
this has been improperly laid the leaky drain may show itself in dampness 



FlO. 272. Mid-feather Trap. (After 
Nutter and Firth.) 




FlO. 273. Common 
Gully Trap. (Af- 
ter Not tw and 

Firth i 




Fio. 874.-Bell Trap. 



558 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

of the paving or soil in its vicinity. If rats are often seen, the drain is 
probably in direct communication with the sewer, and the presence and 
condition of traps should be ascertained. Where a smell arises from a 
particular sink or trap, it is evident that there is no ventilation of the drain, 
or at least no trap at the entrance of the drain into the sewer. Where 
cess-pools are in use, such odors generally mean that they are unventilated. 
Traps full of foul black water, impregnated with sewer-gas, often emit foul 
odors. These odors can generally be removed by flushing, but the character 
of the trap as regards its self-cleansing properties should be ascertained. 
Where odors are noticed on upper floors in quarters, they may*be due to an 
untrapped or defective closet, a leaky soil-pipe or its improper connection 
with the drain below. Where smells are only occasional and occur during 
flushing, it is probable that the odors are due to lack of trapping in the 
hopper or closet-pipe. A slight escape of impure air from drains may be 
difficult to detect, and the odors may be attributed to deficient ventilation. 
Where the drain system has been treated with strong-smelling disinfec- 
tants, inspectors obviously cannot detect sewer odors. As already noted, 
smells from drains are not necessarily of a foul nature, and a close, sweet 
smell may often be detected." 

In testing pipes and traps, the cover and skirting boards should be re- 
moved ; all underground pipes and traps should preferably be laid bare and 
every joint and bend examined. If this cannot be done, the following 
measures may be tried : Let water run down the pipe and observe whether 
there is any smell. Should there be, the pipe is either full of foul air and 
requires ventilation or the trap is bad. If a lighted candle or piece of 
smouldering paper be held over the entrance of the pipe, a reflux of air 
may be found with or without water being poured down. It should also 
be noted whether the water runs away freely at once or if there is any 
check to its flow. From this, the clogging of the 
trap or pipe may be inferred. 

Suspected leaks are searched for by water, smoke 
or some pungent chemical. Of these methods, the 
test by water is best, since it reveals cracks which 
may be filled up by the thin coat of paint given the 
pipe on leaving the foundry. The test is very severe, 
but is certain in its results. It is performed by plug- 
ging the pipe and filling it with water until the 
latter reaches the level of one of the traps any sub- 
sidence in the level of the water denoting a leak. 

PIG. 275. Sectional View of -p, ,, , ,, . , . . , , . 

Drain-piuRin Position. ror the best results in practice, a special plug is em- 
ployed. This consists of two galvanized-iron discs 
between which is a rubber ring ; on tightening these discs by means of a 
thumb-screw, the rubber ring is expanded against the walls of the pipe, 
making an air-tight joint. To remove the plug, the cap A of the hollow 
bolt is removed, so that the water can escape gradually and without 
swamping the operator. Where there is considerable pressure, the plug 
should be held in place by a piece of timber, to avoid its being forced out 
during the operation. Different-sized plugs are of course required for 
pipes of different diameters. For this test, no great head of water is re- 
quired not more than two feet. If leaks appear at all, they usually 




DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 659 

occur with a few inches pressure and always under that of a few feet. If 
after one or two hours there is no change in the level of the water, the 
pipe system concerned may be considered sound. No quartermaster 
should accept and pay for plumbing until the waste-pipe system has been 
thoroughly tested by water; experience showing that joints found to be 
originally tight rarely develop leaks subsequently. 

Sometimes a drain of doubtful tightness is filled with smoke by the use 
of a smudge-aud-bellows apparatus, when the situation of a leak will be 
shown by the appearance of the smoke. Smoke-rockets have also been 
used for this purpose, but the smoke test, as a whole, may be regarded as 
least satisfactory of the several named. 

A simple method for the detection of leaks consists in the use of oil 
of peppermint ; an ounce of this in a few gallons of hot water being poured 
down the pipe at its highest point. As this oil is very volatile, there is 
no difficulty in locating any leak by the odor. In making this test, too 
much care cannot be taken, and at least ten minutes should be allowed 
between pouring in the oil and beginning the search, so that the odor may 
penetrate to every part of the system of piping. In searching with pep- 
permint, all ventilating openings should be temporarily stopped up, and 
the one who uses the oil must remain at his post while 
another searches for the leaks. 

Sanitary inspectors now largely use glass grenades 
charged with oil of peppermint or other pungent chemi- 
cals. One of these is sometimes wrapped in a piece of 
tissue paper, broken in the fingers and dropped into the 
trap, through which it is at once washed by a bucket 
of water. The paper becomes saturated and allows the 
scent to circulate through the pipes. A better arrange- 
ment consists in placing the grenade in the receiver of 
the patent exploring-apparatus, as shown in Fig. 276. FIQ 

This is passed through the water-seal under the dip of 
the trap, when its buoyancy will float it to the drain side of the latter. 
The cord attached to the apparatus is made fast, giving two or three feet of 
play, and a bucket of warm water is poured suddenly into the trap, which 
washes the apparatus into the pipe. The line is given a slight jerk as it 
tightens, which breaks the grenade and allows its pungent contents to be 
discharged. The apparatus is allowed to remain in situ while the test is 
being continued, since on removal it is necessarily somewhat impregnated 
with the odor of the chemical employed. 

General Considerations. In respect to plumbing and drainage, even 
more than in any other department of building, it is essential that only 
sound and durable materials be used. It would seem superfluous to call 
attention to this point, did not the too frequent presence in military posts 
of cheap apparatus, poor material and bad workmanship, installed under a 
more economical administration, show the necessity for such action. It 
must be repeated that in the military service no makeshift appliances as 
regards drainage or sewerage should be allowed. No emergency is to be 
met when a sewerage system is installed, and no excuse is thus furnished 
for the employment of improvised apparatus. 

In a plumbing system the essentials are : A sound water-seal, immedi- 




560 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ate and complete removal of waste, complete ventilation, thorough and fre- 
quent flushing, soundness and durability, tightness as*regards air and water, 
economy of construction and operation, automatic and noiseless operation. 
In general, the amount of plumbing should be reduced to the lowest pos- 
sible limit ; while the cardinal point of simplicity is always to be kept in 
mind. The entire arrangement should be directly visible and access- 
ible from end to end, whence it follows that the closing in of plumbing 
with wood should be avoided. Where the closet fixture is boxed in, 
the enclosed space serves as a receptacle for dust and dirt, while drop- 
pings from careless usage get inside the wood-work and develop bad odors. 
These odors increase with time, since access to their cause by the great 
natural purifiers, light and air, is prevented. In addition, plumbing should 
not be located against an outer wall in cold climates, since this arrange- 
ment greatly increases the danger of freezing. The mere recapitulation of 
these points shows the many practical difficulties to be met with in plumb- 
ing, and shows the necessity for careful forethought and intelligent super- 
vision in its installation. It is not sufficient for a quartermaster to assume 
that because a contract has been made to introduce fixtures all that is 
necessary has been done, nor does it always follow when plumbing is com- 
plained of that a broken pipe or leaky joint is the only imperfection. 

Besides the provision of barrack latrines and water-closets for officers' 
quarters, it is essential that the habitations of enlisted men be provided 
with sanitary plumbing and drainage, not only for the greater comfort and 
welfare of their occupants, but also because of the manner in which un- 
sanitary conditions anywhere in the post react upon the health of the gar- 
rison at large. In the absence of drainage and sewerage, the most unsan- 
itary conditions in a post, with respect to the disposal of excreta and 
liquid waste, are generally to be found in connection with married soldiers' 
quarters. 

WATER-CLOSETS AND WATER-CLOSET APPARATUS. 

Location and Arrangement of Water-Closet Latrines. This sub- 
ject is one of much importance to the military sanitarian, since improperly 
located latrines and poorly installed fixtures may be a cause of grave in- 
salubrity. The latter point is of special importance in our service, in 
which the latrines are too frequently in the same buildings in which the 
men live, sleep and eat; while in many foreign armies, as in those of 
Great Britain, France and Germany, the latrines are located in special de- 
tached buildings, between which and the barracks there is complete atmos- 
pheric severance. Of the two arrangements, the latter is much to be 
preferred. It may be improved, however, by the addition of an airy cor- 
ridor, through which the latrine may be reached from the barrack by the 
soldier without exposure during stormy or inclement weather. This 
separate latrine-building should be located to leeward of the barrack, and 
at a distance sufficient to prevent any nuisance from arising through its 
use, yet sufficiently close to be easy of access. In our own service, a com- 
bined lavatory, bath-house, water-closet and urinal, in a detached building, 
has recently been approved for use in small posts, particularly those in 
connection with coast defences. The arrangement, shown in the accom- 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 561 

panying illustration, is somewhat crowded and is not free from other criti- 
cisms, but it represents an endeavor to accomplish as much as possible 
with a limited appropriation and is a marked sanitary improvement over 
the plan of putting the conveniences in the barrack-building proper. This 
detached structure is intended to meet the needs of one hundred men. 




In the majority of barracks of more recent construction, where water- 
carriage is employed for the removal of waste, the latrine and lavatory fix- 
tures are placed in the basement of the building. This arrangement, as 
just noted, is undesirable from a sanitary standpoint, although more eco- 
nomical; wherever it is employed, at least the space utilized for this pur- 
pose should have three outside walls, so as to permit the entrance of as 
much fresh air and sunlight as possible. This is a simple sanitary matter 
36 



662 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

which can always receive consideration in the planning of barracks, yet 
one which has unfortunately not been always considered in later plans. 
A type of this less desirable arrangement is seen in the accompanying 
plan of the barracks lately constructed ; in which the row of water-closet 
seats is placed against a dead inside wall, and light and air have access 
on two sides only. The installation of lavatory and water-closet con- 



SEAT ||^ SEATjl jj 

~"^i7oT~viNT. HI, '--_::!" 

I /-v I 




veniences in casemates, as has been done at Forts Warren, Adams and 
other sea-coast fortifications, should be prohibited, and such fixtures as are 
already in position should be removed and placed in special buildings 
erected for this purpose. Casemates used under such conditions are always 
damp, foul-smelling and badly ventilated. The free opening up of latrines 
to light -and air should be insisted on. 

The materials used for the construction of latrines should be such as 
are solid and impermeable. In the French army, brick and corrugated iron 
are solely employed for such purposes, the angles of the walls being rounded 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 563 

and the walls and floors being impervious to moisture. Wooden floors 
should never be used in latrines, but cement or some similar non-absorbent 
material is to be employed. The windows in the latrine should extend to 
the ceiling, and the building or space should be efficiently ventilated. 
Comparative privacy should be afforded by stalls having louvred partitions, 
and if the rows of seats face each other there should be a movable screen 
four or five feet high between them. Doors should not be used with these 
stalls, as they are liable to become dirty and contaminated with fecal mat- 
ter. All partitions should be no more than six feet in height and should 
be cut away for the distance of a foot above the floor, so as to permit the 
free circulation of air and more ready cleansing. In winter, such latrine 
closets must be heated ; not only for the comfort of their visitors, but also 
to prevent injury to the plumbing fixtures through freezing. An abundant 
supply of water should be available, while the fixtures and plumbing 
should be of the simplest character. All latrines should be provided with 
lavatory facilities, so that washing of the hands may be practicable. It 
should not be forgotten that unless latrines are convenient and comfortable, 
the men will put off' resorting to them as long as possible, thus favoring 
the production of constipation with its train of evils. 

With respect to the capacity of the latrines to be provided, regulations 
for the British army require that there shall be five latrine seats and five 
urinals for each hundred men. This is certainly the bare minimum re- 
quired. While there is no standard in this respect for our service, it is 
customary to install seven or eight water-closets and four or five urinals 
to each company of one hundred men. The allowance of latrine-seats in 
the French and German garrisons is much lower than in our own service. 
The evils of an insufficient allowance in this respect are obvious. 

Night-Latrines. In the French and British armies, where the latrines 
intended to receive the excreta passed during the day are located in de- 
tached structures, special provision is made for the disposal of such as 
may be passed during the night. Detached latrines are regarded as being 
a possible source of disease through the exposure involved in their use by 
partially -clad soldiers at night, and a circular issued in the French army, 
in 1895, called attention to the greater liability to bronchitis, pneumonia 
and rheumatism which it was thought resulted from such exposure. For 
this reason, it is required that one urinal and one water-closet are to be 
provided in the barracks of each company for night use ; in the British 
army, no means for the disposal of the solid excreta are provided in bar- 
racks, but each squad-room has a night-urinal directly connected with it. 
These night-latrines and urinals are kept locked during the day. 

Where water-carriage is not available, urine-tubs and dry -earth closets 
or close-stools are used in the British and French armies. These are re- 
moved at reveille and replaced at night. They are generally located in 
well-ventilated rooms or in projecting closets built out from the main 
barrack-building for this purpose. 

Night-latrines are of course unnecessary where the water-closets and 
urinals are situated in the barracks. If properly located in detached struc- 
tures connected with the barracks by covered passage-ways, the latter can 
be closed in at the sides by movable sashes during night time or inclement 
weather. 



564 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 279. Pan-closet. 



Water-Closet Fixtures. In the selection and installation of water- 
closet fixtures for use in military posts, it is to be borne in mind that the 

apparatus should be simple and solid in 
construction and easy in respect to opera- 
tion and the maintenance of cleanliness. 
Apparatus of complicated character, or such 
as appears liable to be readily broken or get 
out of order, should be rejected at the out- 
set, and the same also applies to fixture* 
the efficient operation of which requires 
special care or which is directly dependent 
upon human intervention. The force and 
volume of water supplied should be suffi- 
cient to sweep everything out of the receiv- 
ing basin and maintain its cleanliness, while the shape and capacity of the 
latter should be such as to allow the 
excreta to fall free of the sides and di- 
rectly into water of such depth as to 
cover the discharges. In general, a 
good type of water-closet is limited to 
such patterns as have a free water-way 
from the bowl to the soil-pipe, depend- 
ing for their trapping and the retention 
of the necessary water on the elevation 
of the overflow point. 

A large number of forms of water- 
closet apparatus have been devised, 
these varying more or less in detail 
but conforming in general to one of 
several main types. 

Among these, the pan-closet is one 
of the older models. This apparatus 
violates every one of the essentials agreed upon by sanitarians with respect- 
to water-closets, and has only its cheap- 
ness to recommend it. It is mentioned 
because a few closets of this pattern are 
still to be found in some old posts, though 
they are no longer installed and are being 
gradually replaced by more modern pat- 
terns. This apparatus consists of a 
hemispherical pan surrounding the open 
bottom of a conical receptacle ; the pan 
holding a certain amount of water and- 
being intended to form a water-seal or 
trap. Frequently, from failure of water, 
defective apparatus or rusting * of the 
pan, the latter is empty, so as to give 
free passage to noxious gases. From an 
insufficient supply of water delivered in an improper way, the container 
and pan are continually smeared with excrement. The closet pipe usually 




FIG. 280. Valve-closet. 




Fio. 281. Plunger-closet. 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 566 




Fio. 282. Long-hopper Closet. 



terminates in a D trap, from which foul gases arise when the pan is drawn 
back. The apparatus is also very liable to get out of order. 

The valve-closet is a slight improvement over the pan-closet, in that 
its receiver is smaller and of better shape and contains a greater volume of 
water. Otherwise, it is exposed to much the same objections as apply to 
the pan-closet; its plug, in addition, 
being liable to leak and thus fail to 
keep a supply of water in the receiving 
basin. 

The plunger-closet is constructed 
on much the same general principles 
as the valve-closet, though differing 
from it in form and a number of par- 
ticulars. In this closet, the outlet of 
the bowl is at the side instead of di- 
rectly below, and is closed by a heavy 
piston, on the raising of which the con- 
tents are discharged into an S-shaped 
trap leading into the soil-pipe. This 
closet is a much better form of ap- 
paratus than the pan or valve-closets, 

but has several serious defects. While the basin holds a large volume of 
water, flushing is very inefficient. Leakage may occur from clogging with 
foreign material or the retention of paper between the closet-pipe and the 
plug, when the latter fails to close the outlet completely. The plug also 
Incomes very foul, cannot be cleaned and serves as a direct source of at- 
mospheric contamination. 

The long- and short-hopper closets are most simple in construction and 
have no mechanical parts to get out of order. This type of closet consists 
of a plain bottomless bowl, of different heights, set on a trap which opens 

into the soil-pipe. The water en- 
ters by a rim flush, generally from 
an overhead tank. There is no 
standing water in the hopper clos- 
ets, so that their sides are neces- 
sarily fouled by use hence their 
efficiency is largely influenced by 
the amount of water used for flush- 
ing and the manner of its distribu- 
tion over the sides of the receiving 
basin. With the hopper closets of 
this type, the water-seal is too 
small to withstand even a very 
slight evaporation or air-pressure, 
and they are noisy -in operation. 
The short hopper is the much 
better pattern of the two, as the level of the water-seal is nearer the seat 
and the trap is in view. 

Various modifications of the short-hopper or so-called " wash-down " 
closet have been made, of which one of the best is the "Deluge," in which a 




Fio. 883." Deluge " Closet. 



566 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



flushing rim is so arranged that the water flows in a direction and manner 
which ensure the basin being constantly scoured and kept clean. In the later 

forms of this apparatus, the cone 
shape of the hopper is discarded, 
and the back is made vertical or 
recessed, so that the excrement 
drops into the water of the trap 
and not upon the side of the re- 
ceiving basin. A much used and 
very satisfactory form of closet, of 
this general type, is the "Dececo." 
To improve the scouring effect 
of the modified short-hopper type 
of closets, as described above, a 
number of changes have been pro- 
posed. One of the best of these is 




FIG. 284." Deluge " Closet, with Recessed Back. 



seen in the " Century " closet, in which the 
service-pipe from the flush-tank has two 
connections with the closet, one leading 
into the flushing rim of the basin in the 
usual manner, while the other discharges 
into the longer arm of the siphon pipe. 
One stream thus scours the basin, while 
the other rushes down the siphon pipe, 
starts siphonic action and empties the ba- 
sin; the latter being refilled with clean 
water by a simple after-flush arrangement 
of the tank. In the "Twyclifle " closet, 
besides the flushing stream, a consider- 
able quantity of water is forcibly driven 
into the water-seal, so as to cause siphon- 
age and at the same time mechanically 
assist in the evacuation of the contents of 




FIG. 285. "Dececo" Closet. 




Fro. 286. "Century" Siphon-Jet Closet 



the closet. Some of these fixtures 
designed to give a quick and 
powerful flush of water are open 
to objection, under some condi- 
tions, by reason of excessive noisi- 
ness of operation. 

A much less satisfactory form 
of apparatus than the short-hop- 
per water-closets is the so-called 
"wash-out" type, of which there 
are several modifications. In 
these closets, the excreta ^re re- 
ceived in a shallow basin con- 
taining water, over the rim of 
which the contents are carried, 
into a trap underneath, by a sud- 
den and powerful flush of water. 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 567 





PIG. 287.-Twycliffe Siphon-Jet Closet. 



The objections to this type of closet are many. The water in the receiving 
basin is not of sufficient depth to cover the solid dejecta ; and if the rim 

is made higher to avoid this fault, the 
contents may not be at once carried 
away unless the flush be very powerful. 
The flushing is often attended by spat- 
tering, and the operation is noisy. The 
trap is hard to clean, inconvenient of 
access and its seal is very shallow, 
oeing readily destroyed by siphonage, 
evaporation or incorrect setting. The 
pipe-surface between the basin and 
water-seal is easily fouled and difficult 
to clean. 

All these forms of closet are made 
in earthenware, for the better main- 
tenance of cleanliness through the smooth interior surface thus afforded. 
This material has the disadvan- 
tage of being readily broken by 
rough handling, and, to prevent 
accident of this sort, other forms 
of apparatus, made of enamelled 
iron, have been devised to take 
the place of the individual clos- 
ets where the necessities of a 
large number of persons must be 
provided for. 

Common Iroughs are used to 
a considerable extent for the re- 
ception of excreta; these con- 
necting with the drain by a FIG. 288.-Lambeth Wash-out Closet. 

trapped soil-pipe and being pro- 
vided with a supply of water. This system in its simplest form is used in 
some foreign armies, a trough receiving the dejecta and a certain quantity 
of water. A trapped soil-pipe opens from one end of the trough , being closed 

by a plug; the latter is pulled up sev- 
eral times daily by a soldier detailed 
for the purpose, when the contents of 
the trough are rapidly discharged. 
Sufficient water is then allowed to run 
into the trough to replace that which 
has been drawn off. An arrangement 
similar to the above is used at Fort 
McDowell, where it has been found to 
be unsatisfactory. Where flushing oc- 
curs at such infrequent intervals, the 
trough practically becomes a small cess- 
pool; the water in the trough only 
partially retaining the odor of the ex- 
no. a.-com BUM creta - A great improvement consists 





668 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

in the use of an automatic flush-tank, by which the trough is flushed out at 
intervals of about ten minutes and its contents are carried away. The re- 
ceiving trough is usually provided with a horizontal flush-pipe running along 
its rear wall and having fine holes so placed as to cause this surface to be 
washed down during the general flushing. This horizontal pipe is located 
immediately under the lid, and is supposed to be out of the way of the dis- 
charges. As a matter of fact, however, it is usually spattered with diarrhoeal 
discharges, and becomes very foul without frequent mechanical cleansing. 
Nearly a hundred of these latrine-troughs have been installed in our ser- 
vice, and nearly all have been subsequently torn out as being unsatisfactory. 
The trouble appears to lie in the fact that the receptacles are uniformly made 
too narrow by the manufacturers. If they were made six or eight inches 
wider, so that faecal discharges could not be projected against the horizontal 
flush-pipe or the back of the latrine-trough, the arrangement "would prob- 




FIG. 290. Trough Water-closet. 

ably be the best which could be used in the military service. The exist- 
ing faults do not depend upon the system as a whole, but upon defects of 
construction. 

The seats in water-closets, whatever the special system employed, are 
best cut away in the shape shown in Fig. 166 to limit the liability of 
fouling by the discharges. The ordinary openings are also not infrequently 
made too small, and under such circumstances cleanliness of the seats can- 
not be maintained. To prevent absorption by the wood of the seat of 
organic matter resulting from excretal contamination, as well as to limit its 
impregnation by the odors arising from the latrine-receptacle, the render- 
ing of the wood impermeable on both sides by the use of parafline, accord- 
ing to the method already mentioned in connection with floors, is highly 
advisable. By the use of this process the cleansing and disinfection of' the 
latrine-seats would be greatly facilitated. All seats in water-closets should 
be hinged, so that they can be turned up out of the way for cleansing or 
to prevent soiling if the fixture be used as a urinal. As with plumbing 
generally, water-closet apparatus should be freely exposed for inspection 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 569 



and should never be boxed in. In the care of water-closets and the pre- 
vention of bad odors, scrupulous cleanliness rather than the use of deodor- 
ants is required and this can be accomplished by scrubbing and thorough 
flushing with water. In the German army, civilians are employed to do 
police work of this character the cleanly condition of the latrine being 
verified several times daily by non-commissioned officers. There would 
seem to be no reason, however, where water-carriage removes the excreta 
both promptly and efficiently, why the comparatively small amount of 
attention necessary with such latrines should not be required of the men 
themselves; the care of earth-closets being obviously quite a different 
matter from that of water-closets. The throwing of anything into water- 
closets, other than materials which they are intended to receive, should 
be prohibited on account of the obstruction thus frequently produced. 
Thus at Fort McPherson, in 1898, the water-closets were reported as 
having been choked with socks, handkerchie/s and even drawers, while 
sticks, bottles and similar articles are not rarely forced into the pipes. 
Hard glazed paper, which does not readily soften down in water, has 
sometimes been a cause of stoppages, and 
for this reason the issue of toilet paper, at 
present under trial aside from the comfort 
and cleanliness afforded by its use has 
much to commend it. This paper should 
be kept on hand in the latrine-stalls and 
distributed by special contrivances to pre- 
vent wastage; each man should not be 
compelled to carry his own supply, as is 
at present the case. There may be times 
when this individual supply is missing or 
insufficient, and the soldier is thus put 
to unnecessary discomfort, and his person 
and surroundings to undesirable pollution. 
An allowance of toilet paper is issued in the British army and in the 
German military hospitals ; other services appear to make no provision in 
this respect. 

In this connection, it may be noted that no small number of military 
sanitarians in foreign armies advocate the use of the squatting position dur- 
ing defecation. In the French army, in barracks of recent construction, 
provision is made only for such a position. For this purpose, an earthen- 
ware arrangement is used by which the men are compelled to place them- 
selves directly above the opening which is intended to receive the excreta. 
Places are specially arranged for the feet, and the opening is made 
large so as to avoid the arrest of any portion of the fecal discharges. With 
this arrangement, the urine voided during defecation is discharged forward, 
m being passed upon the seat or the floor in front of the arrangement for 
cation. To provide for the latter, the floor in front of the apparatus is 
made RS% slope to a central point, whence a trapped drain allows the escape 
of any fluids into the soil-pipe below the closet water-seal. The whole 
arrangement is made of impermeable material, and is kept clean by scrub- 
bing and sluicing down with a hose. The squatting position for defecation 
is advocated on physiological grounds and also as being cleaner and afford- 




no. 291. Arrangement of Water-cloeet 
Fixture for Squatting Position, as Used 
in the French Army. (After Laveran.) 





570 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ing less opportunity for infection by contact. The first point may be dis- 
regarded ; the possibility of infection through contact with latrine-seats must 
of course be admitted, but such cases are probably extremely rare in actual 
practice. The whole matter would seem to depend merely upon the main- 
tenance of a proper standard of cleanliness and an efficient sanitary police. 

Where these are main- 
tained, the sitting posture 
is undoubtedly more com- 
fortable. Squatting / on 
seats of the ordinary char- 
acter, as provided in our 
service, inevitably results 
in their befoulment. It 
can be prevented by plac- 
ing a board horizontally in 
its long dimension above 
the seat at about the height 
of the shoulders when in 
the sitting posture; the 
board being made to in- 
cline downward as well as 
backward. 

Urinals. -- These 
should be installed under 
the same roof as the la- 
trines. It is desirable that 

they be few in number or that the surface soiled by the urine be as small 
as possible. They should be constructed of first-class materials and with 
great care and skill; the latter not being usually possessed in sufficient 
degree by extra-duty men. 

No special type of urinal is uniform for our. service, and several patterns 
are in use. Of these, the earthenware-bowl system is largely employed. 
With this arrangement, however, soiling of the floor always occurs, since 
the men do not stand sufficiently close to the bowls during urination. 
This might be avoided by placing a strip of impermeable material about 
two inches high and twelve to fifteen inches wide, at such a distance 
from the bowl that the men would necessarily have to stand upon it dur- 
ing urination. With such an enforced position, the contamination of the 
floor with urine would be largely avoided. 

Since the flooring will be more or less contaminated in any case, the 
best urinals are probably those which have an impermeable floor and verti- 
cal receiving surface and a gutter which collects and removes the urine and 
flushing- water. For the impermeable receiving surface, plates of glass, 
painted gray on the side nearest the wall, have been much used during the 
last few years. This material is readily cleansed, but is liable to fixture 
under rough treatment. Marble is costly and too permeable for use. All 
things considered, the best material is probably slate; which is all but 
impermeable, is cheap and can be readily worked. It is not necessary to 
have the urinal divided into stalls, since the side walls of these are often 
soiled by urine and are difficult to clean. The floor of the urinal should be 



FIG. 292. Bowl Urinal. 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 571 



constructed of slate, should be at least three feet wide and should have a 
slope of at least one inch toward the receiving surface, where it should 
fall away to form a gutter. The pipe into which the* gutter discharges 
should of course be trapped ; this pipe being guarded by a wire screen 
to catch any foreign articles which may find their way into the urinal. 

Instead of the simple arrangement just described, a form of urinal 
intermediate between it and the bowl system is used in several foreign 
armies ; the flush-water and urine passing into a trough about two feet 
above the floor. This trough is both unnecessary and undesirable. The 
near side of such a receptacle is sure to be soiled with urine, yet is not 
reached by the flush ing- water and can be cleaned only by hand. Further, 
since a certain amount of urine falls on the floor and its disposal has to be 
provided for under any circumstances, the whole might just as well be de- 
posited and removed in this manner, particularly since this is usually 
more thoroughly nd satisfactorily accomplished than where only a small 
part of the urine requires attention. 

To wash the receiving surface of the urinal, the water may run inces- 
santly or be discharged intermittently the latter arrangement being the 
better. Where the flush- 
water runs continually 
in small quantity, it is 
rare that all the receiv- 
ing surface is washed 
down, since the water 
forms currents and leaves 
little dry islets. On 
these, urinary deposits 
accumulate and go on to 
decomposition, so that 
the urinal, in spite of a 
constant flow of water, 
may appear unclean and 
will usually have an un- 
pleasant odor. With 
flush-tanks this incon- 
venience is avoided. All 
the surface is washed 
down by a copious dis- 
charge, and the interval 
between flushings is not 
sufficiently long to allow 
an accumulation of urine- 
salts. The flush-water 
is discharged from a hor- 
izontal pipe pierced with numerous small holes, the jets from these being 
directed against the slate by a strip of zinc so placed as to prevent splashing. 

9 : id matters rarely give rise to the bad odors sometimes noticed in 
water-closets, but these are chiefly dependent upon the retention and de- 
composition of urine. Hence urinals should be regularly cleaned, and all 
deposits of urine-salts removed as soon as formed. For this purpose, 




Fio. 298. Flush-down Urinal. 



#72 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

automatic flushing can never take the place of manual cleansing with hot 
water, soap and a stiff brush. An unpleasant odor about a urinal invari- 
ably implies an inefficient police ; unfortunately this is too rarely appre- 
ciated, and such efforts as are made to diminish odors are usually limited 
to the opening of windows and the use of deodorizing disinfectants. 
The disinfection of urinals, however, except in hospitals, is rarely required. 
The water supplied to urinals is sometimes rich in iron-salts, which, 
together with those of the urine, leave unsightly stains or incrustations on 
the fixtures. These can readily be removed by scrubbing with a ten per 
cent, solution of hydrochloric acid. This acid also promptly neutralizes 
any ammoniacal and mal-odorous deposits, and can be used without injur- 
ing the apparatus. Where a supply of water fails the urinal, the exposed 
surface should be greased to prevent the deposition of urinary sediment. 




FIG. 294. Flush-down Trough Urinal. 



This is done by daily passing a mop dipped in oil usually linseed oil 
over the exposed surface. The small amount of oil carried down by the 
urine forms a pellicle over the fluid in the traps, and largely prevents the 
bad odors which might otherwise arise therefrom. This use of oil in con- 
nection with urinals is largely employed in the Austrian army. It is par- 
ticularly of value for urinals where there is no water-carriage, as in posts 
where the dry-earth system is employed. 

Flush-Tanks. For the better scouring out of water-closet fixtures 
and traps, the water to be supplied for this purpose should be of consider- 
able volume, and should be delivered with a sudden rush rather than more 
gradually. Where the washing out of latrine fixtures is concerned, econ- 
omy in the use of water, within certain limits, is misplaced. For single 
water-closet bowls, a flush of two and one-half gallons gives good results 
in the better form of apparatus, while as much as three and one-half 
gallons may be required for the poorer type of closet. Beyond the latter 
amount, any excess may be regarded as wastage. With latrine-troughs, the 
allowance of water for a single flushing of course depends upon the length 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 578 



ami width of the receptacle and the depth of the water standing in it. 
With trough-closets of the ordinary type, a flushing allowance is required 
of about three gallons to each seat. 

For the supply of a sufficient quantity of water without wastage and 
in the most efficient manner, the use of flush-tanks is now general. These 
may be automatic in their periodical action or may be mechanically 
started into operation when required. The tank is usually placed about six 
feet above the level of the water-closet seat. For single bowls, the dis- 
charge-pipe should be one and one-half inches in diameter; for trough- 
latrines, the size of the pipe obviously depends upon the number of seats 
in the fixture. A discharge-pipe of insufficient diameter impairs or 
destroys the efficiency of the flush. In cold weather, care must be taken 
to prevent freezing of the water in flush-tanks, more particularly those 
of non-automatic operation ; but under ordinary conditions, this accident is 
not liable to occur with tanks which automatically discharge their contents 
with considerable force at frequent intervals. Besides properly modifying 
the character of the flush and preventing waste, flush-tanks are of sanitary 
value from the fact that by their use the direct sup- 
ply of water to closets from the water-pipes is 
avoided. Flush-tanks for sewers, depending on 
siphonage for their operation, differ from those 
used in connection with water-closets only in the 
magnitude of their dimensions. 

For general military use, copious flushes auto- 
matically discharged at regular intervals are prefer- 
able to those depending for their operation upon 
attention from the men themselves. The great ma- 
jority of flush-tanks operating automatically are 
constructed on the plan of the annular siphon de- 
vised by Rogers-Field. As shown in the accom- 
panying illustration, this apparatus consists of two reservoirs, A and B, 
communicating by a vertical pipe C, having its upper opening narrowed 
by a circular flange projecting downward. The pipe C is covered by a 
metal cap D, which descends nearly to the bottom of the tank A , leaving 
a space between the pipe C and itself. This cap is pierced at by a 
small opening. The pipe E discharges into the closet to be flushed. A 
faucet, which is not shown in the figure, allows a small jet of water to 
discharge constantly into the reservoir A. After the tank has been once 
flushed, water remains in the lower reservoir B at the height n, n'. The 
water which constantly passes into the reservoir A accumulates, and when 
its level has passed the orifice the air in the pipe C is compressed more 
and more as the quantity of water in the reservoir increases. The com- 
pressed air forces back the water in the pipe C until a moment arrives when 
the air is forced out through the bottom of this pipe by the increasing 
pressure above it, water rushes in and rapid siphonage occurs. When the 
water has been lowered in the tank A to the level of the orifice 0, a cer- 
tain amount of air passes in, gradually destroys the siphonic action and 
prevents the water-seal in the receptacle B from being lost. This flush- 
tank must be set perfectly level to ensure a powerful action, since if it leans 
to one side the water passes over the lower edge of the inner tube without 




FIG. 25. Rogers-Field Auto- 
matic Kliisti-lank. 



674 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




FIG. 296. Siphon-Flush Used In 
the French Army, Showing Wa- 
ter In the Water-seal. 



strong flushing. By regulating the flow of water into automatic flush-tanks 
of this character, their regular discharge can be accomplished at such in- 
tervals as may be desired. 

A simple modification of the above flushing-apparatus consists in the 
use of a curved tube, like an inverted U, which passes through the bottom 

of the tank, rises to near the top and then again 
descends so that its open mouth is shortly above 
the bottom. When the level of the water in 
the tank rises to the top of the curve, the dis- 
charge begins and continues until all the water 
has been siphoned off'. Sometimes this single 
tube is replaced by a number of smaller ones, 
so that the tank is emptied with great rapidity 
and force. Automatic flush-tanks are also made 
in such a manner that the action of a float oper- 
ates to lift a valve and allow the escape of the 
water after it has reached a certain height. 

A siphon-flush which is much used in the 
French army, as shown in the accompanying fig- 
ures, is a curved pipe, A, B, C, J), with its long 
branch, B, C, D, having its extremity curved in such a manner as to pre- 
sent a trap at C constantly full of water. At the point d, the tube RdT 
branches off; its upper end opening into the free air, while the lower end 
extends a distance of some centimeters into the water-seal. This tube (dT) 
is itself pierced, by an orifice, V, at which is fastened with solder a pipe of 
very small caliber, twice curved on itself, and entering the other part of 
the siphon at the point u. The bottom of the curve of .this pipe is 
pierced with a small hole at o, having a diameter much smaller than that 
of the tube. The apparatus is placed in a tank having a bottom (xy), 
some centimeters below the orifice A of the small arm, which also pos- 
sesses a curve for holding the water, C, and 
a discharge pipe, CD. As water flows into 
the reservoir, the orifice A is covered. The 
water rises little by little above the orifice A 
in the small branch of the siphon to the same 
height as in the reservoir, without the press- 
ure changing in the siphon, for the air which 
is displaced by the column of ascending water 
escapes by the orifices o and u. But when 
the level of the latter has attained the orifice 
o, the air of the siphon is imprisoned and 
compressed, and its pressure above that of the 
atmosphere is each instant measured by the 
difference in level between the water in the 
siphon and in the reservoir. The level of the 
water gradually rises in the reservoir and in the branch oa, until it finally 
attains the point a. The tube uoa thus forms a siphon. The column of 
water oa is then precipitated into the branch a V, if any more water passes 
into the tank and increases the pressure ; but as the orifice o which connects 
the reservoir and the tube is less than the diameter of the latter, the water 




FIG. 297.- Siphon-Flush Uaed In the 
French Army. Condition immedi- 
ately prior to the commencement of 
glphonage. 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 575 




Fio. 298. Single Valve Flush-tank. 



which passes through it is insufficient to feed the siphon. The column ao 
is quickly broken, and is no longer sufficient to equalize the pressure of 
air in the siphon. Upon this, the level of the water in the branch AB 

rises suddenly, siphonage begins in the 
large pipe, and the tank is emptied down 
to the level A. The tube RT permits the 
re-entrance of air into the lower part of 
the conduit, for the re-establishment of at- 
mospheric pressure after flushing. On the 
other side, air is drawn in through the 
openings a and u, thus permitting a certain 
volume of water to remain in the trap C. 

While automatic flush-tanks are pref- 
erably used in latrines frequented by a 
considerable number of men, for certain 
uses, as for quarters and hospitals, such 
tanks would flush the closets more fre- 
quently than is necessary and thus waste much Water. Under such cir- 
cumstances, it is desirable to have flush-tanks which can be set in action 
only when the need for their use exists. Many varieties of these tanks are 
now on the market, and it is useless to multiply descriptions of apparatus 
of which nearly every manufacturer has his own model. With this system, 
each closet should have a separate tank, usually made of iron and discharged 
by siphonage. A float on the end of a long lever operates mechanically to 
shut off the water-supply, when a proper level has been reached, by clos- 
ing the valve of the faucet. A short pull at the chain 
will start the action of the siphon, when the contents 
of the tank are rapidly discharged. The overflow-pipe 
from the tank is best made to discharge through the 
wall into the outer air ; under no circumstances should 
it open into any pipe connected with the water-closets. 
While the automatic flushing of urinals with a 
disinfectant solution is rarely necessary, it can readily 
be accomplished by means of the simple arrangement 
shown in the accompanying illustration. In this, the 
tank A is an automatic flush-tank, while B is a smaller 
tank containing a disinfectant solution of considerable 
strength. Through a small aperture in the bottom of 
B, this disinfectant solution passes slowly into the 
small reservoir C and rises in the small caliber siphon- 
pipe to the level of the fluid in B. The tube d allows 
the entrance of air into the lower reservoir C. With 
ach flush of the tank A, the water so discharged as- 
pirates the strong disinfectant in C into the main dis- 
charge pipe, and dilutes the latter to proper strength 
before tho whole is flushed through the urinal. The 
size of the two pipes and tanks should be so proportioned that the latter are 
emptied at about the same time ; the strength of the disinfectant solution 
used should be such that when the contents of the tanks A and C are 
mixed, the resultant is an efficient germicidal solution. 





Fio. 290. Apparatus for 

tho Automatic Disinfec- 
tion of Urinals. 



676 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Liquid Waste. Waste-water from kitchens, baths and lavatories, at 
small unsewered posts, has not rarely been thrown out on the ground near 
the barracks a method of disposal which results in constantly increas- 
ing sanitary evils. While this disposition of foul water may not at once 
react upon the health of the garrison, it cannot but ultimately exert an 
unfavorable influence in this respect. Thus from Fort Niobrara, in 1892, 
it was reported that soil pollution had gone on to an extent which resulted 
iu the constant presence of strong foul odors in the rear of the barracks 
comment made at department headquarters on this report being that the 
health statistics of this post were such as to confirm the belief of extensive 
soil pollution. Even in posts in which the liquid wastes are carefully 
removed from barracks and officers' quarters, no such precautions are com- 
monly taken with respects to the quarters of married soldiers, and the waste 
water from the kitchens, laundries and baths of such habitations is gener- 
ally poured on the ground. This method of disposal is highly undesirable, 
since ground constantly saturated with liquid filth soon becomes foul- 
sinelling and furnishes favorable conditions for propagation of the germs of 
disease. There is certainly no reason why a practice which is usually 
strictly forbidden to the military portion of a garrison should be tolerated 
among its civilian followers. 

Improving on the disposal of liquid waste by its deposition on the 
ground, slop and waste-water barrels, slop-carts and open drains have been 
employed but even their use is accompanied by a gradual but nevertheless 
positive contamination of the soil in the vicinity of quarters. In a num- 
ber of instances, liquid wastes have been removed from posts by special 
drains and discharged into tight or leaching cess-pools. This method of 
disposal is undesirable, and where a general sewerage system exists the pipes 
carrying the liquid wastes should of course be discharged into it ; but in 
their arrangement such waste-water pipes should be kept separate from those 
of the water-closet system and should never open into soil-pipes. In Eng- 
land, it is required that pipes conducting waste- water shall not connect 
directly with any drain, but must discharge into the open air, about eigh- 
teen inches above a grating covering a good water-trap leading into the 
main drain. The waste-water pipes are usually three inches in diameter, 
with three-inch siphon water-seals. 

Bath-tubs, wash-basins and laundry fixtures are usually provided with 
small overflow-pipes, which are either themselves trapped or are connected 
with the main outflow on the near side of the bend. Such pipes gradually 
accumulate deposits on their interior surface, which may become very 
offensive and hence great care as to their cleanliness should be observed. 
Where a lavatory or bath is trapped by a sigmoidal bend, it should not be 
forgotten that odors may be able to enter from the trapping water being 
withdrawn through siphonage. If these odors are marked, pipes offending 
in this way should be traced down to the points of discharge, so as to de- 
termine if they wrongly open into soil-pipes. 

Kitchen sinks have a large outflow, trapped close to the sink and pro- 
vided with a strainer. As the trap is liable to become choked with sedi- 
ment and accumulations of grease, there is usually a screw-cap on its con- 
vexity by which it may be cleaned. This carriage of liquefied grease by 
hot water is often a cause of much annoyance in connection with the 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 677 

removal of liquid wastes from the kitchen, since this grease, under some 
circumstances, may be carried Ura considerable distance along the outflow 
before it is deposited, and may ultimately destroy the carrying capacity 
of the pipe through reduction of its lumen. The disposal of greasy water 
is such a serious sanitary problem that French army regulations require 
it to be placed in tight metal receptacles for removal, while the remaining 
waste-water can be discharged directly into the sewers. The dejiosit of 
grease may be largely prevented or removed by a frequent flushing of the 
kitchen waste-pipes with a strong, hot solution of lye. This solution, made 
in the strength of one-half pound of lye in two quarts of boiling water, 
should be poured into the trap at night and allowed to remain until the 
next day no other water being discharged into the sink in the mean- 
time. Several gallons of hot lye solution of one-half the above strength 
should be flushed through the pipe immediately on the following morn- 
ing. The ammoniacal fermentation of water-closet discharges has a con- 
siderable effect in preventing deposits of grease in the main drain. 

To prevent deposits of grease in the pipes, a grease-trap or intercepting 
chamber is sometimes employed. This is generally made of iron or stone- 
ware, has a tight cover and should be ventilated. The size of the cham- 
ber is proportioned to the amount of greasy water to pass through it, so as to 
prevent too rapid displacement of the contained water. Usually the grease- 
trap is divided by a- central partition, dipping several inches into the water. 
The hot, greasy water enters at one side of this partition, while a correspond- 
ing quantity of cold water escapes through an outlet on the other side 
of the partition. The liquefied grease, on entering the trap, is chilled and 
solidified by contact with the large bulk of cold water and rises to the sur- 
face, where it is prevented from passing out by the vertical partition. 
Cleansing of such traps is periodically required, for unless carefully looked 
after they are little better than cess-pools and may become a serious nuisance. 
They are certainly needless except in the case of large kitchens, for with 
small establishments cleanliness on the part of the cook and efficient flush- 
ing with lye solution will keep the pipes clean. Under certain circum- 
stances, the operation of grease-traps may be inefficient. Thus at St. 
Francis Barracks, in 1896, the choking of the drain-pipe from deposits of 
grease was reported despite the presence of grease-traps. The coating of 
grease was found to be generally distributed over the entire pipe, varying 
from a minimum thickness of one and one-fourth inches to one which 
almost completely obliterated the lumen of the pipe. This obstruction of 
the pipes was probably dependent upon inadequacy in the size of the grease- 
traps and a high temperature of the soil, by which the greasy water escaped 
into the drain before its grease was solidified by chilling. The water- 
supply of this post was also very hard and contained much sulphur, thus 
greatly favoring the precipitation of greasy matters. 

Grease-traps should always be located out of doors, and never, as at 
old Fort Mackinac, placed within buildings. In very cold climates this 
necessity, with resulting liability to freezing, places obvious restrictions on 
the use of grease-traps, and under such circumstances particular care on the 
port of cooks is necessary with respect to the disposal of greasy wastes. 
37 



678 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 

The ultimate disposal of sewage is a sanitary problem which is variously 
solved according to the environmental conditions obtaining in the com- 
munity and the character of the material requiring disposition. Although 
liquid wastes alone pass into the sewers in a few posts, the term sewage 
may be understood for present purposes to include the solid and liquid 
excreta, storm- water and the waste-water from kitchens, baths and lava- 
tories. Sewer- water thus varies greatly in its composition; being some- 
times turbid, foul-smelling and highly impure, and at other times contami- 
nated only to a relatively slight degree. Thus one ton of London sewage 
is said by Lawes to contain only two or three pounds of solid matter. The 
quantity of material eliminated by the adult male is generally fixed at 
about four ounces of solid excreta, by weight, and fifty ounces of liquid 
excreta, by measure. It is thus evident that the chief question concern- 
ing the disposal of sewage has relation less to the comparatively small 
amount of contained organic solids than to the great bulk of fouled water 
in which they are dissolved or suspended. Whether the solid excreta pass 
or not, however, the liquid in the sewers always contains more or less ani- 
mal and vegetable matter. While an exact knowledge of the chemical 
constituents of sewage may be at times of importance in civil life, this 
question does not greatly interest the military sanitarian, who, regarding 
all sewage as putrescible and a possible cause of disease, is merely interested 
in securing its speedy removal and early destruction. 

Disposal of Sewage into Cess-Pools. This method of disposal is 
sometimes employed for small posts, groups of buildings or single barracks. 
In this method of disposal, the drain or sewer discharges into an excava- 
tion in the ground ; generally walled dry with loose stones and having a 
floor of earth, but sometimes cemented throughout and hence water-tight. 
The latter form of cess-pool requires much attention and frequent removal 
of its contents, best accomplished by the use of the odorless excavator 
apparatus. As sometimes cleaned out, however, as was the case at Fort 
Assinniboine, where the bath- and waste-water from the hospital and bath- 
house was discharged into tight cess-pools, there to accumulate, ferment 
and putrefy until the cess-pool was rilled to the top the contents of the 
cess-pool are merely pumped out on the surface of the ground in the vicin- 
ity, to soak at once into the ground or drain away, as the character of the 
soil or configuration of the surface may determine. There can be no doubt 
that the original discharge of such foul water in small quantities on the 
surface of the ground, where it is promptly exposed to the purifying action 
of sunlight and fresh air and that of the nitrifying bacteria of the soil, is 
far preferable to its storage until it has accumulated in large quantity and 
its noxious qualities have been much increased. 

Where cess-pools are in use at all, the leaching variety is generally 
employed. Through the porous walls and floors of such receptacles the 
liquid constituents of the sewage drain away more or less rapidly, accord- 
ing to the character of the soil. In very open soils, little but solid mate- 
rial is retained in the cess-pool, and this is removed from time to time. 
Various processes for the destruction or utilization of the sludge are employed 
in civil communities, but none of them, save the use of such solid matters 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 579 

for fertilizing purposes, have any applicability to the military service. 
During the ojieration of cleansing, care must be taken to avoid contamina- 
tion of the surroundings of the cess-pool with the filth removed. In the 
majority of cases in which leaching cess-pools are employed, however, the 
soil surrounding the excavation ultimately becomes clogged with greasy 
particles ; and as no ordinary treatment will free the ground of such ob- 
structions, a new cess-pool usually has to be provided. In some soils and 
with a considerable bulk of sewage, this may become necessary every year 
or so, and a large extent of ground thus becomes saturated with organic 
filth. The economical advantage of leaching cess-pools is that the liquids 
escaj* readily and cleaning is comparatively infrequently required. This 
minor advantage is more than counterbalanced by the resulting pollution 
of the subsoil and the great danger of contaminating an underground water- 
supply. 'Cess-pools are always unsanitary and should not be allowed in 
a military post. If ]>ermitted, they should at least be at a considerable 
distance from habitations and far removed from the water-supply, Prior 
to their location, the trend of the ground-water should l>e determined. 
The drain leading into the cess-pool should be disconnected and trapped, 
and the latter should be ventilated by a tall outlet shaft preferably 
painted black and a shorter inlet. The location of cess-pools, like that of 
latrine vaults, should be plainly marked ; in default of this simple precau- 
tion, one barrack at Fort Washakie was lately shown to have been built 
within three feet of an abandoned cess-pool. 

When cess-pools are now put into posts, they are usually installed un- 
der the plea of tem]orary expediency but unfortunately, after being once 
established, they are often retained for long periods or until the nuisance 
created by their use forces their abolishment. As illustrating this point and 
also showing the occasional indifference of commanding officers to funda- 
mental sanitary rules, a system for the disposal of lavatory and kitchen 
waste-water, installed at Fort Assinniboine in 1896, may be mentioned. In 
this instance, a pipe carried the waste-water three feet from the wall of the 
barracks, discharging it into a drain which extended for thirty yards and 
opened into a leaching cess-pool. The drain in question had its top and sides 
constructed of boards, but possessed no floor other than that provided by a 
naturally porous soil. The fluid ]>assed into this drain largely failed to 
reach the cess-pool, but sank into the soil close to the foundations of the 
building. The pipe leading into this drain was untrapped, and, from the 
greater inside warmth, foul ground -air was drawn into the building. This 
method of disjx>sal, established despite strong protests on the part of the 
medical officer, is understood to be still in existence. 

Discharge of Sewage into Bodies of Water. This disposition of 
sewagf is the one generally adopted in sewered army ]>osts. It is ordinarily 
satisfactory, so far as the post itself is concerned, if the discharge lie into a 
water-course but under the latter conditions a nuisance may result as re- 
gards communities farther down the stream, as was recently the case at Fort 
Logan. Conversely, the disposal of sewage in this manner by towns may 
result in the creation of unsanitary conditions in adjacent posts ; as at 
Washington Barracks, where the sewage from the city is poured into a canal 
which forms one boundary of the narrow reservation, and which is practi- 
cally an open foul-smelling drain; or at the Presidio, where sewage from 



580 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

San Francisco is discharged upon a marsh within the limits of the military 
reservation. Where the sewage is discharged into a water-course which 
subsequently becomes a source of supply, the dangers of such contamination 
are, of course, greatly increased. Thus the amount of sickness at Jefferson 
Barracks, the water-supply of which was formerly contaminated by the 
sewage of St. Louis, was greatly diminished when a new and pure source of 
water was secured. The easiest method of getting rid of sewage, however, 
undoubtedly consists in passing it into streams of considerable volume, 
where it is at once diluted and its solid constituents are oxidized, become 
food for fishes and plants, or settle down to the bottom. In western sta- 
tions, with a comparatively unsettled country, no objections as to this 
method of disposal have generally been raised ; but as the country develops, 
and particularly with small water-courses, contamination of this sort may 
be expected to arouse opposition from the civil communii ies affected. 

Where sewage is discharged into the sea, the resulting dilution of the 
former does much to destroy its offensive qualities, in spite of the fact that 
oxidation of organic matter goes on much more slowly in salt than in fresh 
water. In many instances, however, even where small amounts of solid 
material require disposal, much difficulty has resulted from the action of the 
tides and currents. Thus at Fort Schuyler the use, as a latrine, of a build- 
ing projecting over the water had to be abandoned by the command, as the 
excreta, instead of being removed, were deposited on the beach. Where 
tidal currents exist, the point of discharge for sewers should be located be- 
low the post in the direction of the falling tide. The greatest difficulty 
with such outfalls occurs at low water. As the flow of sewage is contin- 
uous, under such conditions the best method is to store up the sewage and 
discharge it by automatic apparatus on a falling tide. It was found neces- 
sary to install arrangements of this sort at Fort Monroe, where the sewage 
discharged at certain stages of the tide was cast upon the beach. At this 
station, besides securing an intermittent discharge, the sewer-pipes are ex- 
tended into the currents six-hundred feet below low- water mark, and the 
sewage is thus efficiently carried away from the post. Sewage should 
never be discharged into small tidal estuaries, since it is never carried to 
any distance but- is either deposited on the bottom or cast back on the shore. 
To prevent the entrance of water into tidal sewers, flap-valves are usually 
employed, these automatically closing with a rising tide. 

Sewage-Farms and Ground-Filtration of Sewage. Where facil- 
ities are at hand for the purpose, the putrefying animal substances in sew- 
age can be prevented from contaminating the air, the soil or the water of 
streams by imitating the processes of nature and directly utilizing them as 
food for plant life, which in its turn may be employed as sustenance for 
men or animals. This method for the disposal of sewage consists in the 
discharge of the latter upon or into the soil in such a way that it shall be 
acted upon by growing vegetation. The soil acts as a filter, straining out 
the solids ; then by the separating action of the earth-particles, a large sur- 
face of the fluid is exposed to the action of the air, with oxidation of the 
dissolved organic matter. This process of destruction is greatly aided by 
the disintegrating action of the nitrifying micro-organisms in the soil. 

There are several modifications of this general method of disposal the 
simplest being to screen out the more gross portions of the sewage and 






DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 581 

distribute the remainder over the surface of the land to be employed for this 
pur]K)se. The irrigation must be intermittent, so as to allow the soil to 
drain and receive air and not too greatly raise the level of the ground- 
water. The soil itself should be porous, so that fluids may readily pass 
through and out of it. The best kind of soil for this purpose is a friable 
loam ; but even sandy or gravelly soils, when properly managed, will purify 
sewage. In the case of stiffer soils, subsoil drainage is usually required. 
Where this is necessary, the porous drains should have an inside diameter 
of about four inches, should be laid four to six feet deep and twenty to one 
hundred feet apart, according to the porosity of the soil. The drains should 
unite into a single large outlet-pij>e at the lowest j>art of the farm, which 
may discharge into the nearest water-course. Where grass is grown as a 
crop, the solids must be screened out or removed by settling-tanks and 
should be taken away from time to time. The sewage-farm should, of 
course, be so located that the sewage may be carried to it by gravitation. 
The locality selected should be gently sloping; or, better, should have a 




Fio. 300. Disposition of Sewage and Vegetation In Sewage-Farma. 

ridge from which the ground falls away gradually on each side, the irriga- 
tion being from the top. The sewage is allowed to trickle slowly down 
through ordinary trenches, provided with dams and gates for its better con- 
trol. Ponding of the sewage is to be avoided, and no more should be let 
into a trench at one time than the soil with which it comes in contact 
can readily absorb. The effect of sewage-irrigation upon the growth of 
vegetation is remarkable, particularly upon the coarse grasses, cereals and 
vegetable roots. Italian rye-grass appears to flourish best on sewage 
farms. Where vegetables are grown, they are usually cultivated on ridges, 
while the sewage is discharged into the intervening furrows. 

Sewage-farms, if too near habitations and not properly cared for, may 
become nuisances from the odors to which they give rise but these are 
usually not very offensive and soon cease after the sewage once gets on the 
land. There appears to 1 no evidence that sewage-farms are productive 
of disease among those who have them in charge or are residents in their 
vicinity as is shown by the vital statistics of Berlin and other munic- 
ipalities. Salad-vegetables from such farms should not be used, nor 
should the ground le }nnitted to become swampy and waU3r-logged. A 
certain amount of labor and oversight is, of course, necessary to ensure the 
proper operation of sewage-farms, but theexj)ense and labor of this may le 
partially counterbalanced by the sale or use of the produce. The method 
of disposal of sewage by irrigation has been employed at Forts Bayard, 
Bidwell, Stanton, Logan and other existing or abandoned posts. At Fort 
Logan the system of disposal by this means was faulty, in that the sewage 



582 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

was used for irrigation only during part of the year, while at other times it 
accumulated in a large pool which drained into the Platte River and cre- 
ated a nuisance. At some posts, the sewage used for irrigation has been 
composed only of liquid waste ; the solid excreta being disposed of by earth- 
closets. Recently, at Fort Douglas, the use of the sewage for the irriga- 
tion of the post garden was proposed. 

Intermittent downward filtration, as a method of disposal, differs from 
that of irrigation on sewage-farms in that it may be considered as the con- 
centration of sewage at short intervals over small areas of specially chosen 
and prepared ground. Vegetation is not excluded, but the question of pro- 
duce is made of secondary importance. The soil should be porous and 
thoroughly under-drained, so as practically to form a filtering-bed. The 
under-drained area is generally divided into four parts, each of which in 
turn receives sewage during a period of six hours. Intermittency of irriga- 
tion is essential to the success of the method. The sewage turned on the 
ground is required to be clarified ; since where the crude material is applied, 
the soil acquires a surface coating of slimy matter which prevents the ab- 
sorption of liquids and results in ponding. As with ordinary sewage-farms, 
purification of the sewage is brought about by nitration, oxidation and nitri- 
fication. This oxidizing quality is especially marked in rich moulds and 
loam. Nitrification is confined to the limits of temperature within which 
the nitrifying bacteria are active, being most rapid at about 37 C. ; and 
these organisms are most abundant in the upper six inches of the soil. With 
sewage-farms and downward filtration, the effluent water is clean, bright, 
odorless and palatable to the taste. It contains relatively few micro- 
organisms and these are almost entirely saprophytic forms ; the amount of 
chlorine, however, is high. 

In well-drained land, the clarified sewage ma ybe applied intermittently 
in the proportion of one acre of ground to the sewage of two thousand 
people ; the latter being about ten times the number whose wastes could 
be disposed of on ordinary sewage-farms of equal area. These estimates, 
however, are only approximate, since the efficiency of the methods depends 
upon so many variable details. Both methods appear to operate fairly suc- 
cessfully during winter, though, of course, they are most efficient with a 
temperature which permits of the growth of plant and bacterial life. The 
warmth of sewage usually keeps a sufficient amount of soil unfrozen, even 
in very cold weather, to permit of the absorption of its liquid portions. 

Subsoil irrigation may sometimes be used for the disposal of sewage 
from small posts or groups of buildings. By this method, instead of direct- 
ing the sewage over the surface of the ground by means of ditches, the 
liquid waste is taken into a system of loosely jointed and porous drains, 
located six to twelve inches below the surface of the soil, whence it escapes 
into the subsoil. The system requires the removal of the fat, grease and 
coarser solids in the sewage to prevent clogging of the pipes, besides which 
the latter must be dug up and cleaned at intervals of ten or twelve months. 
The liquid wastes are generally discharged into the pipes by means of a 
large automatic flush-tank, so that the penetration of the sewage to all 
parts of the system may be assured. This method gives fairly satisfactory 
results under proper conditions, the fluids being largely taken up by the 
roots of adjacent vegetation. It is not, however, applicable to winter use 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 583 

in cold climates. One objection to this system is that the drainage enters 
the soil below the level of greatest bacterial activity and the liquid is chiefly 
dependent upon the mechanical action of the soil, and the utilization of its 
organic constituents by vegetation, for its purification. 

Bacterial Treatment of Sewage. This method has recently as- 
sumed importance as a simple, practical, efficient and economical means of 
sewage purification. It depends upon the fact that there exist in nature 
certain non-pathogenic micro-organisms, broadly divided into those which 
are aerobic and those of an anaerobic nature, whose function in life, under 
the conditions that their names imply, is to convert the solid portions of 
animal excreta and organic matter into gaseous and liquid forms by a 
process analogous to digestion. In the bacterial treatment of sewage, the 
effort is made to create conditions as favorable as possible to the develop- 
ment of these organisms and to secure their most efficient action. 

The manner in which the disintegration and decomposition of sewage 
is accomplished by bacteria is given by Woodhead as follows : " The first 
process is the result of the activity of organisms that are capable of taking 
up their oxygen from the air, and, second, those the result of the activity 
of organisms that so break up and re-arrange the organic molecules con- 
taining oxygen that not only do the bacteria themselves take up oxygen, 
but they allow of its being handed on to the products to which in their 
process of metabolism they give rise. It is probable that here we have to 
do not only with nascent oxygen, but with certain products set free during 
the process of decomposition, which seize upon oxygen with very great 
avidity. This decomposition or re-arrangement is spoken of as a process of 
nitrification or a conversion of the nitrogenous elements into ammonia, 
nitrous and nitric acids, carbonic acid, and water." It would appear that 
the destruction of organic matter buried in the soil takes place apart from 
any process of putrefaction, and the action is more rapid near the surface 
of cultivated ground where the soil is porous and readily permeable to 
both air and water. Here are found, in vast numbers, the micro-organisms 
of the aerobic class. As the organic matter is washed down deeper into 
the soil it is seized upon by the anaerobic class of microbes, which, unable 
from their situation to obtain free oxygen, have developed the power of 
acquiring it from other substances which are broken down by them into 
simpler forms. Below a certain depth, bacteria are absent. Woodhead 
found this to be about twelve feet, but the number of micro-organisms 
present is very limited before this depth is reached, depending upon the 
nature of the soil, its moisture, porosity, temperature and the amount of 
organic matter usually present on the surface. Antiseptics and a consid- 
erable degree of heat at once arrest these chemical changes. A knowledge 
of these facts pertaining to the life-history of the nitrifying bacteria throws 
light upon a number of important sanitary points as with reference to the 
disintegration of faecal matter in earth-closets ; the necessity for the inter- 
mittent in place of the continuous discharge of sewage where the latter is 
disposed of by irrigation ; or the reason why polluted water, which escapes 
from a drain or cess-pool at a point below that where bacterial life can 
maintain an existence, will, in certain soils, infect water to a considerable 
distance and depth, while foul liquids placed on the surface of the soil 
would be cleared of impurities at the depth of a few inches. 



684 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

The practical application of the above facts to the purification of sew- 
age is made by a number of methods depending on the same general 
laws. By nearly all of these processes a clear, bright effluent is obtained, 
almost inodorous, while oxidation of all organic matter, both in suspension 
and solution, is secured. Provided that suitable conditions are observed 




FIG. 301. Plan of Scott-Monerieff Apparatus. 

for the establishment and cultivation of the specific micro-organisms con- 
cerned, there is almost no limit to the degree of purity capable of attain- 
ment with regard to sewage. It also appears that if the filtering apparatus 
be given periods of rest, its efficiency can be maintained indefinitely. 

Among the various forms of apparatus, that of Scott-Moncrieff is very 
satisfactory. This is a filtering-tank filled up to the level of the overflows 
with small bits of flint, upon the surfaces of which the organisms are prop- 
agated. An iron grating supports this cultivating material and allows the 
sewage to escape upward from the entering channel underneath. The 
action in this filter is chiefly anaerobic ; the effect being to bring the solid 
sewage into a state of solution and into a condition of instability which 
renders it eminently susceptible to further changes. The latter, largely in 
the line of a conversion of the soluble sewage into ammonia and nitrates, 
is brought about by the action of the aerobic bacteria in a second portion of 
the apparatus. This consists of a nitrifying chamber containing a number 
of sieves or trays, supported one above the other on a metal framework. 
Into the uppermost of these trays the effluent from the first tank is con- 
ducted through metal troughs, which are balanced so as to tilt when full 
and discharge their contents, automatically regaining their original posi- 




Fw. 3fE. -Soott-Moncrleff Cultivating Tank. Section E.E. 

tion. The liquid thus discharged into the top tray percolates into those 
below, occupying about seven minutes for its complete passage. Each 
tray is filled with small fragments of coke to a depth of six inches. An air 
space is provided between each of the trays so as to render the germ's cul- 
tivated on them thoroughly aerobic. Since the liquefaction of sludge is 
naturally a much slower process than the purification of the already liquid 
portion of the sewage, a longer period of operation is required in the first 
step of the process. The longer the sewage remains in the first filter-tank 




DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 585 

the greater the reduction in the opacity of the effluent. With respect to 
the secondary or nitrifying filter, it should be understood that the latter in 
its highest stage of biological efficiency will effect 
only a given percentage reduction of the pollution 
of its affluent. Thus if a pollution be high and the 
filter capable of effecting a purification of fifty 
per cent., its effluent will still remain a filthy liquid, 
and must have its contamination still further re- 
duced by passage through another ae'robic filter. 
These filters are sometimes suddenly and unaccount- FIG. ana. scott - Moncrieff 
ably overtaxed a condition noted by a high elimi- ??" 
nation of ammonia when the sewage must be 
passed into another nitrifying apparatus and the first filter given a rest. 

Mouras' " vidangeuse automatique " is an early type of the so-called 
septic-tank system, being an air-tight box through which sewage is passed 
and in which the anaerobic microbes are propagated. In Cameron's modifi- 
cation of this apparatus in use at Exeter, in England, in a tank having a ca- 
pacity of 1 6 1 ,000 gallons about 90,000 gallons of sewage are dealt with daily. 
The sewage entering the tank is coarsely screened to arrest any foreign ob- 
jects which may have gained entrance. The inlets to a small chamber, just 
outside the tank proper, are placed close to the bottom, and being larger 
than the outlets into the septic-tank, the sewage enters the chambers under 
a certain amount of pressure, thereby agitating any sediment and enabling 
it to separate from the organic matter present. From this chamber, the 
sewage flows over a submerged weir which divides the former from the 
septic-tank. The tank itself is deprived of light and air as much as possi- 
ble; the sewage remains almost stationary in it for some little time, event- 
ually escaping from an outlet at about the middle depth. Under such 
conditions, the anaerobic microl>es multiply with such great rapidity as soon 
to dominate the situation, and were it not for the entrance of fresh material 
would soon be destroyed by their own products. Through a window in 
the center of the tank may be seen a layer of floating scum containing the 
lighter solids, and at the bottom a thin layer of heavier sediment. The 
greater part of the organic matter of the floating substance being dissolved, 
the residue falls to the bottom, but here it is apparently seized upon 
by bacteria and a bubble of gas is formed which buoys it again to the top ; 
here the gas escapes and the particle of solid sewage again falls and the 
process is repeated while any organic matter remains. The contents of the 
tank are in constant movement from the bubbles of gas and the particles 
ascending and descending. The residue resulting from this treatment con- 
sists of inorganic ash upon which the microbes cannot feed. This residue 
is small; two million gallons of sewage passing through a tank twenty- 
four feet by nine feet leaving only four inches of sediment, while a liquid 
effluent of a brownish-yellow tint was the result. Upon leaving the septic- 
tank, the liquid sewage has a slight odor; but this is soon lost by aeration 
in overflowing the sides of a V-shaped trough through which it passes on 
the way to the nitrifying filters. These are five in number, two being in 
alternate use and one at rest; it having been found that each filter should 
have a rest one week in four. From these filters, which contain coke, breeze 
and clinkers to a depth of five feet, it is possible to obtain from an origin- 



586 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ally foul sewage a perfectly clear filtrate containing a fifth of organic ni- 
trogen per 100,000 parts, which is less than the amount suggested as admis- 
sible for Great Britain by the Rivers Pollution Committee. 

From what has been said, it is evident that this simple and inex- 
pensive method of sewage disposal would be specially applicable to military 
posts, under conditions where the discharge of unpurified sewage into 
streams, or its use on sewage-farms, would not be practicable. 

Precipitation. The precipitation of sewage in tanks, by natural sedi- 
mentation and by precipitation with various chemical substances, is carried 
out in some large cities. The liquid thus clarified is allowed to flow over 
land or filter through it, though sometimes it is passed directly into streams. 
The sludge is removed from the settling-tanks at frequent intervals. Lime, 
lime and aluminum sulphate, lime and protosulphate of iron, aluminum 
sulphate with blood, clay and carbon are all substances or combinations of 
substances which have been employed. These form bulky precipitates which 
entangle and carry down all suspended matter. The effluent water after 
precipitation is merely clarified sewage, and it would undoubtedly be unsafe 
to use water from a stream which had received such partially purified sewage 
higher up in its course. In vLw of the cost of artificial precipitation of 
sewage and the far better methods for its purification, chemical precipita- 
tion possesses no advantages for the military service. 

DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE. 

The maintenance of posts in a sanitary condition, as with all other 
collections of habitations, depends upon the proper disposal of filth of all 
sorts among which, next to the excreta, that of garbage is of the greatest 
sanitary importance. The proper collection and removal of this material 
has already been discussed in connection with the sanitation of standing 
camps, and the subject requires no further consideration in this connection 
save in respect to the manner of ultimate disposal. In the German army, 
all garbage is carefully collected in large covered barrels and sold, the 
purchaser removing the same twice daily. This arrangement, however, is 
frequently impracticable in our army, and is nearly always undesirable. 
Frequently the garbage has been thrown on a dumping-ground in the vicin- 
ity of the post ; ground near the inhabited area usually being selected from 
convenience, and the accumulation of years ultimately becoming so exten- 
sive as to be a reproach and a nuisance. Ashes and cinders may be used on 
roads or for filling, and if not required for this purpose their deposit on a 
general dump is not injurious. Stable manure may sometimes be used 
for the fertilization of post gardens, while the excreta are generally disposed 
of by water-carriage. Nevertheless there is always much solid waste at 
every ]>ost which is best destroyed by fire, and for the accomplishment of 
this a crematory of suitable size should always be available. Particularly 
where the military reservation is small and is surrounded by civil .com- 
munities it is imperative that the waste should be destroyed by such ap- 
paratus. Of late years, efficient crematories have been constructed at a 
number of posts, among them being Forts Leavenworth, Sheridan, Mc- 
Pherson and Sam Houston. One built at Columbus Barracks proved to 
be inefficient and fell into disuse. A crematory constructed at Fort Co- 



DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA, SEWAGE AND REFUSE. 587 

lumbus in 1885, and rebuilt six years later, consists of a fire-brick cham- 
ber divided into three spaces by iron gratings which support the garbage 
and refuse. A tall chimney gives a powerful draft and combustion is ex- 
cellent. There is no offensive odor and the smoke is scarcely perceptible, 
in spite of the fact that no special arrangements were provided for con- 
suming the products of combustion. At present, a number of types of 




STACK ELEVATION 



SECTION AT A-A SECTION AT B-B 

FIG. 304. Recent Model of Crematory for Post Use. 



FRONT ELEVATION 



crematory are in use in our service. The most generally satisfactory 
model is the one shown in the accompanying illustration ; crematories af- 
ter this plan having been recently constructed at a number of posts in this 
country and in the tropics. In this apparatus, the heat from the burning 
garbage and refuse, after the combustion of this is once started, is of much 
value in drying and destroying subsequent charges of waste material. The 
destruction of excreta by fire is accomplished only at stations where the 
Smith crematory, described in connection with the sanitation of camps, is 
in use. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 

THE maintenance of personal cleanliness is even more essential in the 
military service than under the ordinary conditions of civil life ; to some de- 
gree on account of the arduous duties often required of the soldier, with 
their concomitants of dirt and sweat, but particularly because of the military 
necessity of living in common. The importance of proper bodily cleanliness, 
however, was long unrecognized and in former times the barrack-yard 
pump, with bucket or hand-basin, afforded the only facilities available for 
the performance of his ablutions by the soldier. Under such conditions it 
is evident that no very extensive toilet could be accomplished ; a daily 
washing of the hands and face, with an occasional foot-bath, being about 
all that could be attempted in inclement or wintry weather. Until a com- 
paratively recent period, cold baths in sea or river afforded the only facilities 
for the attainment of general bodily cleanliness among troops of all countries ; 
a condition of affairs which obviously left much to be desired with respect 
to the physical purity of the soldier. Baudens, in referring to the former 
lack of personal cleanliness among the French troops, says of the forces at 
the Crimea: "On a review day our soldiers presented, by their new and 
well-brushed uniforms, an irreproachable military aspect; but these fine 
battalions left, as they passed, the well-known stench of the barracks." 
Not until about the beginning of the present generation was any provision 
officially made in the military service for the cleansing of the person ; the 
soldier himself being duly educated in the belief that diligence in the 
brushing of the uniform and polishing of the equipment amply replaced 
such a supposedly unimportant deficiency. Bathing of the entire body, ex- 
cept in summer, was thus rarely performed ; if actually carried out, it was 
accompanied by so many discomforts and difficulties as to be not soon re- 
peated. 

In this respect, the conditions existing in the United States service 
during the past will scarcely bear close scrutiny. The general installation 
of bathing facilities among our military posts dates from a period barely fif- 
teen years gone by, while even within the last five or six years the arrange- 
ments for the attainment of bodily cleanliness by the soldier, at a number of 
]K)sts, have been of a most insufficient and primitive character. For such a 
condition of affairs the medical staff is in nowise responsible ; sanitary reports 
for many years teeming with references to the deplorable lack of bathing 
facilities existing in various army stations. The fault is entirely that of 
officers of high rank in the line and of officials of the supply department ; 
indifference and lack of initiative being, in their case, euphoniously desig- 
nated as conservatism. In this respect, however, the United States army 
has not alone suffered. So late as 1856, the Royal Commission investi- 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 589 

gating the conditions existing in the British army found that, up to that 
time, no arrangements whatever for bathing were provided in the military 
establishment ; the soldiers being forced habitually to employ for the wash- 
ing of their feet and persons such tubs as were used in barracks for the 
reception of the urine voided during the night. In the French cavalry 
service a system was until recently in operation if indeed it is not even 
now in use in Algeria by which the heat produced in the fermentation of 
stable manure was utilized for*the warming of water employed for bathing 
purposes. Barrels containing the water were buried in the decomposing 
compost heaps; the water, under ordinary conditions, attaining a temper- 
ature of 28-30 C. in twenty-four hours ; 40-45 C. in forty-eight hours 
and 66-70 C. after six days. In the same service, also, the bath-houses 
have often been located in close proximity to the hospitals to permit of 
warm water being drawn from that source the fact that the hospitals may, 
and frequently do, contain cases of a contagious nature apparently receiving 
no consideration where an economy of fuel is concerned. Of late, how- 
ever, a marked change for the better, in this respect, has occurred in the 
military services of nearly all nations ; the importance of bodily cleanli- 
ness, as affecting the health and efficiency of the soldier, has been generally 
recognized and adeqifate provision made for its maintenance. 

It is evidently impossible to determine exactly the influence which the 
provision of better facilities for the maintenance of cleanliness among troops 
has had upon military morbidity and mortality, since improvement in 
this respect has been accompanied by changes for the better in other en- 
vironmental conditions which also powerfully affect the well-being and 
efficiency of the soldier. In 1886, when substantially improved arrange- 
ments for the cleansing of the person of the soldier were being introduced 
into a number of military posts, the constant non-effective on account of 
disease, in the United States army, was 41 per 1,000 strength. For the 
following decade (1886-1895) the non-effective was 31.62, while in 1897 
it was 26.73 a decrease of 34.81 per cent. It is only fair to presume 
that this reduction depended, at least in part, upon the greater attention 
given to the personal hygiene of the soldier. During the war with Spain, 
of the several volunteer regiments encamped at Augusta, Ga., a marked 
difference was noted in their respective sick -rates. The reason for this 
difference was reported by the medical officer attached to the regiment pre- 
senting the least sickness, and possessing at the time the only bathing 
facilities, as follows: "While we are not prepared to say that the lower 
sick-rate is due entirely to the use of this bath-house, yet we believe that 
the perfect system of bathing in this regiment plays no small part in its 
decreased sick-rate." In the French service, it was noticed by Haro that 
the general installation of adequate bathing facilities resulted in a consider- 
able diminution of affections of the skin among the troops. 

Cavalrymen, on account of the nature of their duties, must usually 
pay closer attention to the cleanliness of the person than would be neces- 
sary for foot troops but every soldier, when in garrison, should be required 
to wash the face, head, neck and feet once daily, cleanse the hands prior 
to each meal and bathe the entire body at least as often as once in five 
days. In addition, a frequent toilet of the genitalia is of advantage; since 
it renders the soldier attentive to the first manifestations of venereal dis- 



590 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ease, prevents possible multiplication of the pediculus pubis, and enables 
young soldiers to escape that scrotal pruritus by which they are so often 
inconvenienced, particularly in hot weather. 

The cleanliness of the person and garments of the soldier should be a 
constant object of solicitude on the part of his superiors, while the taking 
of general baths should be made a matter of official record. In the armies 
of Great Britain, France, Germany and other countries, the soldiers are 
regularly inspected by medical officers, at 'short intervals, to ensure due 
cleanliness of their persons and clothing as well as for the early recognition 
of cases of existing contagious or venereal disease. It is much to be re- 
gretted that a similar custom has not been officially instituted in our own 
service and that the feelings of the individual are treated as of more im- 
portance than the general welfare. It would be of advantage if at least 
once a week a careful inspection of the persons and apparel of the men 
cuuld be made; the neck, breast, arms, feet and legs being bared for the 
purpose. 

Lavatories. These should be readily accessible from squad-rooms, al- 
though not in direct connection with them, to enable men while partially 
clad to reach them without danger of chilling. Lavatories wholly de- 
tached from barracks, while preferable in warm countries, are undesirable 
in cold climates ; since frequent sudden transitions from heat and cold, 
without proper measures for protection on the part of those exposed, are 
often provocative of sickness. The best arrangement under such condi- 
tions consists in connecting a small outbuilding, devoted to toilet purposes, 
with the company barrack the connection being made by a covered pas- 
sage provided with lateral doors and windows to permit of transverse 
ventilation by perflation. The floor of the lavatory should be well drained 
and of a material impervious to moisture, while all parts of the apparatus 
or plumbing should be readily accessible for purposes of cleanliness. The 
room itself should be large, sunny, well ventilated and sufficiently warmed, 
since to perform his ablutions properly the soldier must uncover his neck, 
arms and the upper portion of his chest; an action he will not take unless 
the room be free from chilling air-currents and is maintained at a comfort- 




Fio. 305. Plan In Section of Sunken Bowl Lavatory Fixture. 



able temperature. Lavatories should be so arranged, connected and con- 
ducted as to render the maintenance of personal cleanliness by the soldier 
a valued privilege rather than an irksome task. 

In the United States military service there are nearly as many varie- 
ties in lavatory equipment as there are garrisoned posts. Of late, how- 
ever, two general plans have l)een selected for future use ; one consisting 
of a number of sunken bowls supported in a solid metallic frame, while 
the other is merely a broad, shallow trough furnished with removable 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 591 

granite-ware hand basins. The trough plan appears to be preferable ; since, 
according to Bertrand, wash-bowls, when used in common, may serve as 
agents for the propagation for contagious disease. For the better mainte- 
nance of their cleanliness, also, lavatory basins should be movable rather 
than fixed. In the French service neither basins nor washstands are pro- 
vided, but the soldier is expected to perform the daily ablution of face, neck 
and hands with a small jet of water, turned on as required. The faucets 
are placed at intervals of thirty centimeters along the wall and are so 




FIG. a06. ^avatory Trough, as Used in the United States Army. 

constructed as to yield a sufficient flow without wastage. They discharge 
into an open trough raised to a height of forty-five centimeters above the 
floor, the trough being intended for use in washing the feet. The plan 
seems to be not without considerable advantage, as affording ready facili- 
ties for the cleansing of the feet without the necessity of a general bath. 

In our army, no proportion is officially required to be maintained be- 
tween the number of men to be accommodated in barracks and the number 
of lavatory basins to be supplied for their use; but company lavatories, as 
at present being constructed, contain ten or twelve hand-basins. This 
number is ample for the needs of a peace strength of sixty men to the 
company, but is evidently not sufficient for the full war strength of double 
that number. A minimum proportion of one basin to each eight men should 
be required. In the British military service the official allowance is twelve 
hand-basins to each one hundred men, but in addition four foot-baths are 
also provided. 

In the British and some other foreign armies, warm water is not sup- 
plied to lavatories even during cold weather. The use of such tempered 
water, however, is always advisable, both on account of the increased 
comfort afforded troops and the more ready cleanliness obtained by its 
use. Each soldier should be required constantly to possess, for his indi- 
vidual use, a piece of soap of good quality and one or more clean towels. 
The use of toilet articles in common should be strictly forbidden. Towels 
in particular, if used in this manner, may readily transmit many conta- 
gious affections, notably purulent conjunctivitis a disease formerly so 
prevalent in armies as to be known as "military ophthalmia." 

Baths and Bathing. Bathing of the person, when properly per- 
formed, is cleansing, exhilarating and enjoyable. The application of 
water to the surface of the body not only removes epithelial debris, dirt, 
grease and perspiration, but it also stimulates the cutaneous functions and 



592 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

acts as a tonic to the system as a whole. Since the pores of the skin are 
only }>artially self -cleansing, in the absence of bathing a certain amount of 
cutaneous irritation must naturally result and the elimination of an in- 
creased amount of effete material is thrown upon the kidneys. The bath 
should preferably be taken in the morning and bathing at night is gener- 
ally to be avoided. A general bath should not be taken within two 
hours immediately following a meal, or while the individual is perspiring 
or is exhausted by fatigue. There is less danger in the application of cold 
water to the surface when perspiring, however, than there is in exposing 
the person, in a partially nude condition, to chilling by evaporation. In 
taking cold baths of any kind, the muscles should be kept in constant 
action and the head should first be wet ; the latter to prevent the too great 
increase of encephalic blood-pressure which may accompany a gradual im- 
mersion from the lower extremities upward. Cold baths taken immedi- 
ately after exercise but after the cessation of perspiration, if not too pro- 
lunged and if followed by vigorous friction of the surface, largely relieve 
fatigue and give a sense of exhilaration. Chilliness, with numbness of 
the extremities, is a warning to discontinue a bath ; the body, after bath- 
ing, should be thoroughly dried by brisk rubbing with a coarse towel. This 
stimulates the cutaneous circulation and prevents chilling through evapo- 
ration of the surface moisture ; it also removes the greater liability to chafing 
and eczeinatous eruption where the skin is subjected to friction by cloth- 
ing. Soft water is preferable for bathing purposes, since it prevents or 
reduces cutaneous irritation as well as being more cleansing in its action 
and economical of soap. 

In France, the rain-bath system lias been officially adopted in the mili- 
tary service, each soldier being required to bathe the entire person at least 
once every seven days. The same system is employed in the German 
army ; the douche playing for two periods of one and one-half minutes each 
and using 15-20 liters of water for each individual weekly baths being 
required. The shower-bath system is also in use to some extent in the 
armies of Austria and Belgium, although in the former country there are $ no 
official requirements as to the frequency of bathing. Steam vapor baths are 
used in the Russian army and by the troops of Roumania In Russia, the 
military barracks are not usually provided with bathing facilities and the 
men are sent to the public bathing establishments in the vicinity. In the 
camp at Krasnoe-Selo each soldier is required to take a vapor bath once in 
eight days. Tub baths are still used in Holland; the soldier of the 
Dutch service being required to bathe the entire person once weekly, half 
an hour being allowed for the procedure. In the Japanese army each sol- 
dier is required to bathe daily in summer and thrice weekly in winter, 
tubs being used for the purpose. Tub-bathing is also largely employed as 
yet by the British troops on the home stations. At various English bar- 
racks, notably those at Chelsea, the bath-room is located in close proximity 
to the kitchen. The tubs are supplied with cold water only, and *he in- 
dividual bathers are required to procure from the kitchen tanks such hot 
water as may be necessary. Such an arrangement is clearly unsatisfactory. 
In the army of the United States, the tub-bath system was alone employed 
prior to 1898, when shower baths were installed in several military posts; 
regulations simply providing that the soldier shall " bathe frequently. " 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 693 

In the military service, swimming, already discussed in connection with 
the physical training of troops, is indulged in at the present time for pur- 
poses of instruction, exercise and pastime rather than for bodily cleanli- 
ness, except during field service. As favoring physical purity as well as for 
other reasons, it should, however, be encouraged under all suitable circum- 
stances. Troops should be prohibited from bathing in bodies of water which 
have been contaminated with sewage, since the cause of neither health nor 
cleanliness is advanced under such conditions. If the matter be left to 
their own discretion, soldiers will not hesitate to bathe in almost any 
water, no matter how great its foulness. Surf-bathing, besides its cleans- 
ing properties, has a particularly tonic effect, together with an additional 
cutaneous stimulation due to the sea salt. 

The use of vapor baths in the United States military establishment, as 
is customary in the Russian army, is wholly inadvisable ; on account of 
their increased cost and the greater time necessary for their accomplish- 
ment, and also because the method is neither popular nor well known in 
this country. 

Tub baths, still in use in several armies, are mentioned only to be 
condemned. They should have no place in the military service. They 
are expensive, inconvenient and unsanitary, and are not practicable for 
use for the bathing of a large number of men in a short period of time. 
Tub baths, while possessed of many grave disadvantages, have no desirable 
qualities which are not shared in even greater degree by rain baths. 

The rain or shower bath has every important advantage when com- 
pared with the tub bath or immersion system. The first cost of the ap- 
paratus is considerably less, while the subsequent outlay for operation and 
repairs is also reduced. The fixtures are of the simplest character and 
there are no parts liable to injury even with ignorant or rough usage. Re- 
pairs, if needed, can never be of a costly nature. The rain bath is cleanly 
and economical in management where a large number are being bathed, 
since it is always" in readiness for immediate use and requires little at- 
tendance while the bather is assured of an ample supply of constantly 
clean water. No time is lost in the filling or emptying of tubs, and the 
necessary cleansing of the latter, after use, is entirely avoided. The rain 
bath also requires less time for its application while even more efficient in 
cleansing the bather, and hence more baths can be administered in the 
same space of time. Exposure to its action for five minutes is ample for 
all purposes of cleanliness a duration of only three minutes being con- 
sidered as sufficient in the French and German services. The apparatus 
occupies much less floor space than a proportionate number of tubs, and thus 
more bathers can be accommodated at the same time in a given area. In 
the rain bath, also, the body of the bather does not remain in contact with 
soiled water, the waste at once flowing down from the person and escaping 
through the outlet, while in the tub bath the individual is constantly im- 
mersed in a solution of his own eliminatory products. Thus Edel has cal- 
culated that the average number of microbes given off by the person of the 
adult human being during a bath, based on the hypothesis that the individ- 
ual bathes once daily, amounts to 3,860,000,000. Among the micro-organ- 
isms so given off, the bacillus coli communis was invariably found by him 
to be present. A bath by immersion, particularly if the water be very 
38 



594 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



warm, has often a debilitating effect and fails to refresh the bather 
whereas the descending fine stream of the rain bath acts both as a general 
tonic and a powerful stimulus to the circulation. According to Edge- 
combe, the effect of immersion in cold water is to raise the arterial and 
lower the venous pressure through peripheral constriction. 



COLD BATH Two MINUTES AT 13 C. 





Pulse rate. 


ARTKRIAL PRESSURE 
(MM. HO.). 


Venous 
pressure 
(MM. UR.) 


Maximum. 


Minimum. 


Before ... . . . : 


70 

72 


190 
210 


130 
150 


25 
10 


After 





If to the effect of cold that of percussion is added, in the form of a strong 
rain douche applied simultaneously to the whole surface of the body, the 
arterial pressure becomes raised to a greater extent than with cold alone, 
while cardiac action is increased. In a strong shower bath begun at 37 
C. and rapidly cooled down to 16 C., extending over a period of two 
minutes, the following results were obtained : 





Pulse rate. 


ARTERIAL PRESSURE 
(MM. Ho.). 


Venous 
pressure 
(MM. Hg.) 


Maximum. 


Minimum. 


Before : 


64 

72 


115 
150 


85 
115 


15 
10 


After 





The effect of warm baths, on the other hand, is to reduce the arterial 
pressure to an extent roughly proportionate to the increase of temperature ; 
but if the warm water be applied as a douche, the elevation due to the 
percussion greatly overbalances the lowering effect of the temperature. It 
was found by Berblinger in a series of experiments carried out upon 
twenty-two medical officers of the Russian army that the average muscu- 
lar strength of the individuals observed rose from 108|^ kilograms before 
a cold shower bath to H7 ? 4 7 kilograms fifteen minutes after the bath; 
and was still 115^- kilograms at the end of half an hour. 

An important advantage of the rain bath for the military service is 
that it requires much less water to achieve the same results; fifteen per 
cent, of the water used in an ordinary immersion bath sufficing for an 
ample shower bath. The danger of communicating skin or other diseases 
by means of infected fixtures is, with the rain-bath system, of course en- 
tirely avoided. 

In using the shower bath, warm or tepid water is more efficacious from 
the standpoint of cleanliness. The nozzle should be turned so that the 
spray is projected obliquely against the body ; thus avoiding the disagree- 
able sensation of suffocation which accompanies the impact of* vertical 
spray upon the head. The bather should stand in a shallow tub or depres- 
sion in the floor of the cell, so that the soapy water, when washed from 
the person, may collect about the feet, soften the epidermis and facilitate 
cleansing. In addition to a descending shower, a movable spray or horizon- 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 695 



tal jet may be advantageously provided for the better cleansing of the ax- 
illse, genitalia and perineal region. The warm bath should always be com- 
pleted with a cold shower, to contract the cutaneous capillaries and better 
protect the individual against those forms of disease so largely favored by 
atmospheric conditions or changes. 

As is the case also with lavatory basins, there is no definite ratio in our 
service between the number of men present for duty and the amount of 
bath apparatus to be supplied. At present, in the plan of barracks now 
being erected, three shower baths and three or four tub baths are supplied 
to each company. In the British army only one bath tub is provided for 
each hundred men a fact which, combined with the lack of heated water, 
results, according to Evatt, in the practical discontinuance of bathing by the 
British soldier between the middle of 
October and the middle of April. For a 
temperate climate one shower bath to 
each twenty soldiers should be the mini- 
mum ; a larger number of tub baths, if 
they are in use, being required. For sta- 
tions liable to have a fluctuating strength, 
as at recruiting stations, the bathing fa- 
cilities should be proportioned to the 
greatest authorized capacity of the bar- 
racks. This would avoid any such con- 
ditions as occurred at Columbus Barracks 
in 1898, when, owing to an influx of 
recruits, it was reported that, even with 
all the tubs in the bath-Louse in use 
night and day, it was impossible to se- 
cure a bath for each man as often as 
once a week. 

Rain-Bath Systems. In its sim- 
plest form, the rain bath consists in a 
rose nozzle placed at an elevation of 
seven to ten feet, perforated by a large 
number of fine openings and supplied 
with a stream of tempered water slightly 
above blood heat. A primitive and economical bathing system which, ac- 
cording to Viry, is still continued in certain of the French barracks, con- 
sists in heating water in a large kettle on top of an ordinary stove. The 
warm water is then mixed with cold in proper proportions in a tank or 
tub and is raised by an ordinary hand pump to the sprinkling apparatus 
which serves to shower the men. 

In the United States military service two quite dissimilar forms of 
shower apparatus are in use the Clow and the Schaffstaedt systems. 

The Clow shower bath, shown in the accompanying illustration, uses 
a mixture of hot and cold water, these being passed into a mixing tank 
before reaching the bather. The supply pipes are run along the upper 
portion of the wall in order to avoid the necessity of piercing the floor, 
with the resulting interference with efforts at cleanliness and ever-present 
possibility of leakage. This system, of an inexpensive character, is being 




Fio. 307. Clow Shower Bath, as Used in the 
United States Army. 



696 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

installed in all the army posts now in course of construction. To ensure 
the uniform and proper temperature of the water, and to avoid the waste 

of time which results when 
each soldier adjusts the tem- 
perature of his own bath, it 
would be well to supply all 
showers from a single boiler 
in which the contained 
water is maintained at a 
constant degree of heat. 
This is readily accomplished 
by the use of an internal 
steam coil, provided with 
an automatic valve, by 




FIG. 308. Tank for Maintaining Warm Water at a Constant 
Temperature. 



which the supply of steam is cut off as soon as the water 
reaches a certain temperature. Such a tank requires 
an occasional cleansing if the water used be hard, a spe- 
cial opening at the end being provided for this purpose. 
The Schaffstaedt patent rain-bath apparatus is in 
use on various army transports and is also extensively 
employed in the German military and naval service. 
As the system requires the use of steam for heating pur- 
poses, its connection with an existing steam plant or 
the installation of a special boiler not necessarily ex- 
pensive in character is necessary. The working prin- 
ciple consists in causing water and steam to flow in 
opposite directions, but in such a manner that they 
do not mix. As is shown in the accompanying vertical 
section of the apparatus, the steam enters the tube in 
the body of the apparatus through the steam pipe b and 
the steam valve g, passing out at the lower end at c. 
The water enters at a, and rising past the descending 
steam is warmed by the latter. It then passes through 
the water valve/ and pipe d to the overhead douche e. 

The steam, descending noise- 
lessly, parts with all its heat 
and is discharged at the bot- 
tom of the apparatus con- 
densed into water, its tem- 
perature being about the same 
as that of the cold-water 
supply. By turning the han- 
dles / and g, the water and 
steam valves are opened to- 
gether, wide enough to secure 
the desired temperature of 
the water as indicated by 
the thermometer. The tem- 
perature can be regulated by the steam- valve g. 
110. 3io,-univer8ai Mixing valve. The Universal mixing valve is especially ap- 





Fio. 31)9. Sectional 
View of Schaffstaedt 
Apparatus. 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 697 



plicable to the Schaffstaedt apparatus. With its use the turning on of hot 
water without at the same time establishing the flow of cold water is im- 
possible, even with handling by inexperienced persons, and hence the dan- 
ger of scalding is avoided by the bather. 

The capacity of the apparatus must be proportioned to the number of 
douches on each warm-water supply line and the water and steam press- 




FIG. 311. Detail Showing Row of Douches Supplied from a Single Large Schaffstaedt Apparatus. 

ures should remain constant. In its use a non-commissioned officer pref- 
erably operates the valve, determines the temperature of the water by ref- 
erence to the attached thermometer and controls the length of time during 
which the douches are in operation. At the end of the bath he gradually 
lowers the temperature of the water by slowly turning the handle of the 
steam valve, a procedure which does not affect the water pressure. 

This system is specially applicable to the transport service, since steam 
of a certain pressure is always available and sea-water can readily be 
pumped up and heated by the apparatus for use for bathing purposes. 

Post Bath-Houses. It is essential that bath-houses be kept neat, 
scrupulously clean and inviting in 
appearance, and that they be well 
heated, properly ventilated and am- 
ply lighted. 

While the better class of flooring 
for bath apartments is made of vitri- 
fied tiling, equally good results are 

oivpn hv flnnisj of art ifipinl sfrmo fin lO- 312. Vertical Sectlonof Basin In Bathing Cell 

given oy noors 01 aninciai stone, nn- ^y, snower-Bato system. 




698 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



ished off with cement. Asphalt is impervious to moisture and is said to 
be somewhat more agreeable to the feet of the bathers. The floor should be 
graded so as to be drained by one or more waste pipes. To afford better fa- 
cilities for cleansing the feet, the flooring under each shower should be 

slightly depressed. The re- 
sulting basin, of several inches 
depth, may be moulded in con- 
crete and provided with a 
standing over-flow or with an 
adjustable strainer over the 
drain, so that the water does 
not escape quite as rapidly as 
it is delivered. The walls and 
partitions should be finished 
off with some non-absorbent 
material, such as enamel-faced 
brick or corrugated galvanized 
iron, painted with several coats 
of enamel paint. Partitions 
should be raised about twelve 
inches from the floor to facili- 
tate its cleansing and promote 
the circulation of air. The 
height of the dividing parti- 
tions should be not less than 
seven feet to ensure privacy. 

For bath cells, in the mili- 
tary service, no furnishing 
other than a perforated soap 
cup and a hinged seat should 
be provided. All plumbing 
should be durable, plain but 
substantial, and perfect from 
a sanitary standpoint. All 
waste pipes should be so pro- 
portioned as quickly to remove 
all soiled water. To prevent 
splashing and afford privacy, 
a small curtain of washable 
material may be hung up in the 
doorway of each compartment, 
but usually this is not desirable. 
The accompanying diagram 
shows the plan of a bath-house 

adapted to the military service, as used in the German army, and ofample 
size for the needs of a regiment. The room contains two rows of eight baths 
each, or sixteen bath apartments, centrally arranged. On each side wall 
there is a row of twenty-four seats, with overhead clothes-hooks, affording 
a total seating capacity of forty-eight. There are three times the number 
of seats that there are bathing cells. The latter are numbered and three ad- 




THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 599 

joining seats are given the corresponding number. After the first sixteen 
men are undressed, they occupy the sixteen compartments and, while they 
bathe, the second squad of men occupies the second set of seats. When 
the first squad leaves the bath to dress, the second set takes its place in the 
baths and the third detachment occupies the third set of seats and begins to 
undress. When the second squad leaves the baths to dress, the third squad 
takes its place, the first squad leaves the bath-house and a fourth squad 
enters and prepares for bathing. It will be seen that such an arrangement 
permits of the rapid bathing of a large number of soldiers. 

The capacity of such an establishment, provided three squads are 
bathed per hour, is 480 baths per day of ten hours. The size of the bath- 
ing hall is about 25 X 50 feet, but may be modified to suit local condi- 
tions. The level of the corridors is slightly raised to prevent their wetting 
when baths are being taken. If the floor of each cell is not depressed to 
form a basin, it should slope so as to discharge into a common gutter, with 




Fio. 314. Ground Plan of the Sbower-Ratti System as Used in the French Army. A, Water heater ; B, dis- 
tributing Apparatus ; C, tubs ; 1>, drain. 

perforated cover. It would seem necessary that such a bath-house should 
be provided with a urinal, to avoid the possible perpetration of nuisances 
by the men while bathing. 

In the German army the lavatories and baths are in separate buildings 
detached from the sleeping quarters. This plan- is excellent and should be 
followed in our own service. It is true that detached lavatories, bath-houses 
and latrines are in use in some of our garrisons, as illustrated in the preced- 
ing chapter, but their employment should be extended to all posts and under 
all conditions. To put plumbing of any sort in a barrack building is a 
mistake ; and where a lavatory and bath-room are in the basement of a bar- 
rack, this basement is necessarily damp and close. It is by attention to 
such minor details that the sick-rate can be lowered in the future. 

The Care of the Person in the Field. The results of uncleanli- 
ness during campaign have been graphically portrayed by Smart, as fol- 
lows: "Nor was positive disease lacking as a consequence, for the irrita- 
tion of the skin caused by the heat, perspiration and the contact with dirty 
underclothing, hardened by moisture, organic elimination and epithelial 



600 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



debris from within and dust and all manner of uncleanliness from without, 
led to papillary inflammation, accepted in its milder form as 'prickly heat,' 
but which, in cases aggravated by the nails of the individual and the 
browsing of pediculus corporis, became erythematous, eczematous and finally 
formed a special disease known as camp eczema or camp itch. The 
amount of suffering and loss of sleep from various degrees of this con- 
dition did much to impair efficiency, irrespective of loss from men ab- 
solutely driven to hospital for relief. The disgust with which persons of 
cleanly habits regarded themselves and their neighbors, when more or less 
affected in this way, was often productive of low spirits and home-sick- 
ness." 

The maintenance of personal cleanliness in the field depends to a large 
extent upon the energy and desires of the soldier, for much may be done 

in the way of cleansing the body even with 
meagre facilities. During active service, 
every possible attention should be given to 
cleanliness of the body, and marching troops 
should be required daily to bathe the arms, 
genitalia and feet in the prevention of chaf- 
ing, balanitis, pruritus and excoriations. 
Cold swimming-baths, in river, lake or sea, 
serve an excellent purpose as regards clean- 
liness, and their use should be favored when- 
ever time, place, circumstances and season 
permit. It should not be forgotten, how- 
ever, that severe chills may follow immer- 
sion in cold water by such individuals as 
may be suffering from malarial infection. If 
the supply of running water available for 
bathing is small, a hole may be dug in the 
bed of the stream and allowed to fill, or a 
small dam may be constructed. Sponge 
baths are always available and are of great 
value during campaigns. They are best taken 
by spreading the rubber blanket over a broad, shallow excavation in the 
ground and thus forming an improvised bath-tub. The contents of two or 
three canteens of water poured into this rubber tub suffice for the attain- 
ment of exceUent results as regards cleanliness, while a wet cloth admir- 
ably takes the place of the sponge. Where actual bathing or washing of 
the person is not practicable during field service, the body should be rubbed, 
morning and night, with a damp towel. Some soldiers habituaUy wash 
themselves thoroughly after arrival at camp at night, contenting themselves 
with scanty ablutions before beginning the day's march. It is well to re- 
member, in this connection, that the use of strongly alkaline water, partic- 
ularly when associated with exposure to the dust of the march an<J the 
rays of the sun, has a marked effect in producing roughness and soreness of 
' skin and cracking of the lips. Habits of carelessness as to personal 
leanliness, of a more or less permanent character, may be induced through 
he lack of facilities for washing and bathing during a long campaign, and 
such are of course to be opposed in every way. 




PIG. 315. Tabasco Water-Heater. 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIEE. 601 




Fio. 316. Diagram Showing Simple Ar- 
rangement for Obtaining a Hot-Water 
Supply In Camps. 



In summer camps, when the ablutions can be performed in the open 
air, excellent arrangements for a lavatory and for shower baths, in the 
presence of a piped water-supply, can rapidly and economically be made; 
such arrangements well repaying the slight 
labor and expense involved by the increased 
comfort thus afforded troops. In winter, 
however, both shelter and warmth must be 
provided, and it is evident that in tempo- 
rary camps during cold weather the bathing 
of the entire person can rarely be properly 
accomplished particularly since the 
water-supply under such circumstances is 
usually scanty, or, if sufficient, there is lack 
of means properly to utilize it. In winter 
quarters, during the Civil War, a hot-water 
supply was often extemporized by fitting a 
camp kettle with circulation pipes con- 
nected with pork barrels, the warm water 
being drawn off from the latter as required. 
The Tabasco water-heater is simple in con- 
struction, easy of manipulation and mod- 
erate in cost. The average size is capable 
of heating 300 gallons of water per hour. Where obtainable, it would serve 
an excellent purpose in connection with the camp bath-house. 

In camps of a semi-permanent character, an early and imperative duty 
consists in the erection of suitable structures for use as wash and bath- 
houses, equipped with facili- 
ties for the supply of a limited 
amount of hot as well as an 
abundance of cold water and 
with proper provision for the 
removal of all waste. Wher- 
ever a piped supply of water 
has been laid, rough buildings, 
containing a number of stalls 
for shower baths sufficient to 
meet the needs of a regiment, 
can be constructed at a cost of 
about $200 each. The water 
may be heated by passing it 
through a coil of pipe built into 
a brick fireplace, cold water 
being admitted into the main 
channel through another pipe. 
The floor, constructed of ce- 
ment, should drain into a tem- 
porary sewer, or, if no better arrangement be possible, into a stoned or ce- 
mented gutter discharging into a covered and ventilated cesspool located 
at some distance. For a bath-house in winter quarters, the plan suggested 
by Billings some years since, for use at frontier posts, serves excellently. 




Fio. 317.- Ground Plan of Bathing Cells as Proposed by Bil- 
lings. 



602 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



In this plan a series of bathing cells (C, D, E, etc.) surrounds a central 
space, containing a stove and hot-water tank (L) and separated from it by 
a latticed partition to admit of the reception of heat. One cell (K) is left 
incomplete to allow of entrance to the stove. The cell floors slope down- 
ward and inward one inch to a common drain. The dimensions proposed 
were as follows : The central space to be 5 ft. in diameter ; the bath cells 
4 ft. 6 in. deep, 5 ft. 3 in. across widest end, and 6 ft. in the clear; door- 
ways to be 2 ft. wide and 6 ft. 6 in. high. 

For officers in the field, an excellent arrangement for securing shower- 
baths consists in carrying in the equipment a small rose-nozzle, such as is 
commonly supplied with modern bath-tubs, to which is attached several 
feet of rubber pipe of small caliber. A bucket of water of the proper tem- 
perature having been secured, the rubber pipe has a stone or weight at- 
tached to its free end and the whole is immersed in the water. It is then 
pinched at both ends, while the rose nozzle is carried over the rim to fall 

below the level of the water in 
the bucket. Siphonage at once 
begins, and the bucket may 
be hauled up to a sufficient 
height by a bit of tent-rope or 
halter-strap passed over the 
ridge-pole of the tent or a con- 
venient bough. The rubber 
blanket is stretched beneath 
the bucket over a shallow exca- 
vation, as already suggested in 
connection with the sponge 
bath. Outside the bucket, 

which can generally be obtained in camps where there is any wheeled 
transportation, the necessary apparatus does not weigh more than three or 
four ounces in all. 

The Care of the Feet. The care of the feet has been to some extent 
discussed in connection with the conduction of the march ; the maintenance 
of cleanliness being of the greatest importance in ensuring their integ- 
rity during campaign. The skin of the feet is particularly rich in sudo- 
riparous glands and is subject to abundant exfoliation of the epidermis. 
The fetid secretions, confined by the coverings of the foot, soften the cuti- 
cle and render it, in the absence of proper cleanliness, more sensitive to 
pressure and friction. Particularly in warm weather is the lack of proper 
attention to the feet a source of cutaneous irritation. The application of 
water does not make the skin tender, but on the contrary hardens it, and, 
by promoting local nutrition, assists in preventing the occurrence of blis- 
ters, corns and callosities. 

Cleanliness of the feet of the men is a matter to which company officers 
should give their careful attention ; a daily foot-bath being under all circum- 
stances desirable, in garrison as well as on the march. Proper facilities for 
foot-baths should always be available in connection with the company 
wash-room ; if not officially provided, they should be improvised. Men 
should be instructed to cut the toe nails squarely across, not rounded and 
not too far behind the end of the toe. Removal pf the corners has a strong 




FIG. 318. Bathing Cells Proposed by Billings, In Vertical 
Section. 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 603 

tendency to promote ingrowth of the nail, particularly with too narrow 
shoes. Hard corns, if painful, may be shaved down with a sharp knife or 
scraped with a piece of broken glass. Soft corns, between the toes, should 
receive several applications of a saturated solution of salicylic acid in col- 
lodion; when, after soaking in hot water, the corn can be readily extracted 
en masse. The same procedure is also effective with respect to hard 
corns. It has recently been proposed to require the company barber to 
look after the feet of the men in his organization, after a preliminary 
course of instruction by the medical officer. This is an innovation which 
would undoubtedly be productive of good results if its details were prop- 
erly carried out. At present, the care of the feet receives too little consid- 
eration in our service. Great attention is paid in the German army to 
this matter, and it is required that the feet of each man shall be inspected 
by one of his company officers, a medical officer and the Lazarethgehulfe 
corresponding to our hospital steward at least twice a week in barracks 
and oftener in active field maneuvers. The method of making this inspec- 
tion is to form the companies in squads, standing upon tables or benches 
sufficiently high to bring the feet directly under the eye of the inspecting 
officer and to bring under his observation any wincing or flinching when 
the inspected man jumps to the ground barefooted. The inspecting officer 
passes down the line, carefully examining the front of the feet and legs, 
which are bared to the knees, searching for strained tendons, blisters, im- 
properly cut nails or un trimmed corns. Having passed down the line, the 
men are about-faced and the tendines Achillis carefully examined ; and the 
soles are inspected as they raise one foot and then the other. As a man 
passes from the table or bench, he leaps to the ground and runs to his shoes 
and stockings. This is to show any bruised soles or periostitis of the 
tarsus. Any case of blisters, improperly cut nails or tendo-synovitis are 
at once cared for by the Lazarethgehulfe. More serious disorders are sent 
to quarters or hospital. 

At the same inspection each man's socks or " fuss-lappen " and boots are 
carefully examined as to their condition of cleanliness. As the German 
infantry regiments average in marching a kilometer in ten minutes, being 
often pressed to a kilometer in from seven and one-half to eight minutes, 
each man carrying sixty pounds, this care of the feet is most necessary. 
When tables or benches are not available, the trunk of a fallen tree or a 
block of stone is made use of for the foot inspection. 

The Care of the Mouth. Broken or carious teeth considerably im- 
pair the efficiency of the soldier. Besides exposing him to the liability of 
odontalgia, alveolar abscess and periostitis, the possession of such teeth 
implies an impairment of the powers of mastication which, with the use 
of the hard ration of the field, may often induce intestinal disturbances and 
diarrhoea. Soldiers who are affected with foul or diseased mouths are an- 
noying, if not actually dangerous, to their comrades; their fetid breath 
being a powerful factor in the pollution of the atmosphere of the tent or 
squad-room, while the saliva of such cases has been shown to contain an 
unusual proportion of pathogenic bacteria. Dental caries is much more 
common in certain races or localities than in others. Among our negro 
troops, even when no care whatever of the mouth is taken, the teeth are 
often observed to be clean and sound, without tartar or decay. 



604 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Ulcerative stomatitis has been common in armies, frequently becoming 
epidemic, although much rarer of late years. While this condition is un- 
doubtedly to be regarded as primarily of scorbutic origin, the proper clean- 
liness of the mouth and care of the teeth may do much to prevent its oc- 
currence or modify its severity. 

Carious teeth should be promptly filled ; both for their own preserva- 
tion and to avoid the favoring of decay in their sound neighbors through 
contiguity. It would be much to the advantage of the service if dentists 
were provided by the Government to care for the teeth of men while in 
the field or at isolated stations. Tooth-brushes should be furnished by the 
Government as part of the equipment of the soldier, and their proper use 
in all instances required. In the absence of such official action, it becomes 
the duty of company officers to insist upon their purchase and regular em- 
ployment by those under their command. 

Usually the men themselves, especially the better class of soldiers, pay 
much attention to the care of the teeth, and it is undoubtedly the case that 
in our service the hygiene of the mouth receives far more consideration 
than is given it in foreign armies. Among our soldiers it is those of alien 
birth who are the most derelict in this respect; but careful oversight of 
the habits of all recruits is necessary. 

Tooth-brushes should be used twice daily. They should be made of 
soft bristles and are not to be forcibly employed, as tending to render the 
teeth sensitive through mechanical retraction of the gums. The motion 
of brushing should always be in the direction of the teeth and never across 
their surface. In the German army, a weak solution of salicylic acid is 
to some extent employed as a tooth-wash, but for application to the teeth 
powdered chalk best answers all purposes. Wood ashes and wood char- 
coal make an excellent dentifrice and are frequently employed by soldiers 
for this purpose. 

The Care of the Hair and Beard. The hair of the soldier should 
always be kept short; not only to permit of the more ready cleansing of 
the scalp but to lessen the liability of infection by insect vermin and con- 
tagious skin disease. Long hair is the glory of a woman but the shame 
of a soldier. Wolseley recommends that the hair never be permitted to 
exceed half an inch in length during campaign, or be at any time so long 
that the soldier is enabled to part it. The head should be particularly 
well cared for while in the field, and should when possible receive a daily 
washing with soap and water. Brushing of the hair should be done at 
least once daily, and preferably prior to each meal. 

For greater uniformity of appearance as well as for purposes of cleanli- 
ness, the wearing of the full beard is not desirable in the military service. 
Although during campaign the growth of full beards is often a matter of 
necessity, under such conditions they should be kept closely cropped by 
the use of scissors or clippers. In the army of the United States there 
is at the present tune no restriction as to the growth of hair upon the face, 
provided that the beard, if worn, shall be neatly trimmed; but up to the 
outbreak of the Civil War a regulation was in force prohibiting the wearing 
of hair on the face of the soldier below the angle of the jaw. In the 
British military service, the Highland regiments are allowed to wear the 
full beard ; while the flowing moustache was, in that service, long the dis- 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 606 

tinguishing mark of the cavalryman. The Russian soldier is authorized to 
wear the full beard ; but in the French army only the moustache or the 
so-called imperial can be worn. 

An extensive epidemic of sycosis or " barbers' itch " occurred at Madison 
Barracks in 1898, the infection following the use of uncleanly razors and 
shaving brushes. It is well known that ringworm, favus, certain eczematous 
eruptions, seborrhcea, syphilis and other diseases may also be readily trans- 
mitted through the agency of the company barber; his instruments usu- 
ally serving as the means through which the infection is accomplished. 
Hence all barbers in the military service, before being authorized to 
ply their trade among troops, should receive instruction from a medical 
officer in the general hygiene of the hair, beard and skin, and should 
thoroughly understand the technique required in the sterilization of brushes 
and instruments. Permission to continue the practice of their calling 
should depend upon the maintenance of scrupulous cleanliness, both of the 
hands and instruments ; while they should be required to refuse to serve 
and report at once to the medical officer such cases of possibly contagious 
skin affection as may come under their observation. Greases or emollient 
preparations of inferior quality and injurious properties should not be em- 
ployed. The disinfection of shaving-mugs, scissors, clippers, razors and 
brushes may be accomplished by chemical solutions or boiling water. Heat 
damages the temper of razors, hence they are best disinfected after each use 
by immersion in a solution of tricresol, of one per cent, strength, for five 
minutes. Brushes may be cleansed by the use of water of ammonia or 
borax in solution. They are, in practice, preferably disinfected by immer- 
sion in a 1-1,000 solution of mercuric chloride. Such hair-brushes as 
have inadvertently been employed on cases of tinea, favus or similar dis- 
ease should, however, be preferably destroyed by fire. Powder-puffs and 
similar articles, such as cannot be treated with aqueous solutions without 
injury, may be disinfected by the use of absolute alcohol. The applica- 
tion in common of alum or magnesia, in solid form, should be prohibited. 
When used, they should be applied with a clean towel in the form of a 
fine powder. After finishing with a customer, the hands of the barber 
should be carefully washed and all bits of hair should be collected and 
destroyed, preferably by fire. 

Insect Parasites. Destruction of head or body lice, a simple matter 
in camp or garrison, often becomes a difficult problem during active cam- 
paign. If the head becomes infested, the hair should be closely trimmed 
and receive frequent and thorough shampooing, followed by the washing of 
the scalp with a 1-2,000 solution of mercuric chloride. This solution should 
contain a small amount of vinegar to loosen the nits from the hair. In the 
absence of opportunity for the accomplishment of the above treatment, care- 
ful use of the fine-tooth comb gives good results. On prolonged campaigns it 
may fairly be questioned whether such a comb should not form part of the 
personal equipment of the soldier. While mineral oil is an efficient parasiti- 
cide, its use in the hair for such a purpose is not advisable ; since a number 
of cases have occurred in which its application to the scalp, accompanied by 
friction, has resulted in apparent spontaneous combustion and fatal burns. 

According to Woodhull, infested clothing may be freed from insect ver- 
min by soaking it in a barrel of water containing a handful of " fish ber- 



606 THEORY AND PEACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ries " (Cocculus indicus). Sabadilla powder, dusted freely along the seams 
of garments, will destroy the pediculus vestimentorum ; but its use must 
be frequently repeated, as it has no effect in preventing the hatching of 
the eggs of the parasite. The powdered seeds of the stavesacre (Delphi- 
nium staphisagria) have long been used for the destruction of lice. During 
the Civil War, infested clothing was commonly turned inside out and the 
seams were carefully gone over by hand for the destruction of lurking insect 
life. To prevent a return to this favorite retreat, the inside seams were sub- 
sequently greased with blue ointment or with the ointment of the nitrate 
of mercury. The destruction of the "nits," as well as of the body lice 
themselves, may be speedily accomplished by the thorough boiling of the 
infested garments, preferably in soap-suds or weak soda solution. Roiling 
water, however, is with difficulty obtained in the field for other than cook- 
ing purposes, and hence the destruction of vermin by this method is only 
rarely practicable during active campaign. In garrison or where a steam 
sterilizer is available, the use of this agent is followed by satisfactory re- 
sults, save in respect to the resulting shrinkage of woolen garments. 

Men of the most careful and cleanly habits are liable to infection with 
body lice through inadvertent and often unavoidable contact, and the in- 
fested person of a single slovenly individual may be the means of the 
introduction of annoying parasites throughout an entire command. The 
early detection of such vermin, with prompt application of measures look- 
ing to their destruction, is of the greatest importance in the prevention of 
their dissemination among troops. 

Infection with the pediculus pubis, or crab-louse, is not usually brought 
about or favored by military conditions. A daily toilet of the genitalia 
will do much to prevent the continued existence and multiplication of this 
parasite. The remedy is shaving of the parts with the application of mer- 
curial ointment, together with proper measures directed to the clothing of 
the individual affected. 

During the Civil War, parasitic skin diseases were extremely common 
and assumed an unusually severe character; 32,080 cases being diagnosed 
as "itch," while 35,667 cases were merely recorded as "skin disease." 
The pathology of the affection known as " army itch " was much disputed 
at the time, but sulphur, sulphide of lime, kerosene oil, and similar reme- 
dies of known value in the treatment of scabies appeared to have been 
successful in bringing about its termination. At the present time, scabies 
is far less prevalent among our troops than in those of 'the various Euro- 
pean powers. The average annual number of cases of scabies occurring 
in the United States army, for the decade 1885-1894, was 21.1; but 
there has been great improvement in this respect in recent years. In 
1895 there were 12 cases of this affection, in 1896 there were 10 cases, 
while in 1897 only a single case was reported showing the practical re- 
sults of the greater attention latterly paid to personal cleanliness in our 
military service. 

Cleanliness of the Clothing. The washing of the clothing o1f the 
enlisted man in the United States army is left entirely to the discretion 
of the individual and is not under any direct military control. At pres- 
ent, such persons as may do the washing for troops have no official status ; 
but company laundresses, in the proportion of four to each organization, 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 607 

were formerly officially recognized in the military establishment, were paid 
for their services and were given allowances in the matter of rations, quar- 
ters and fuel. These laundresses were appointed by the company com- 
manders, and were usually, though not necessarily, the wives of enlisted 
men belonging to the organization to which they were attached. The 
system was preferable from a sanitary standpoint to that now in use, since 
it placed the washing and laundrying of clothing under the immediate 
control and ready supervision of the military authorities. The act of 
Congress approved June 18, 1878, prohibiting women from accompanying 
troops as laundresses, and the subsequent restrictions placed upon the 
enlistment and re-enlistment of married men by army regulations and 
orders, practically did away with army laundresses and compelled the 
enlisted men to do their own washing or have it done outside the post. 
This seems inconvenient and unsatisfactory ; and the introduction of duck 
clothing and linen collars adds to the expense, especially in southern, 
latitudes. Some amelioration seems due the men in the active service of 
the Government, and the establishment of post laundries would solve a 
troublesome problem and prove a strong ally to contentment, cleanliness 
and appearance; and seems to call for special consideration, since the 
habitual method of doing laundry work in the tropics, in running streams 
and without boiling, increases the danger of certain cutaneous diseases. 
Where the laundry work is done in the present haphazard fashion, more- 
over, a soldier can plead the neglect of an irresponsible washerwoman as 
an excuse for his dirty linen and underclothing. The soldier is nominally 
at liberty to wash his own apparel should he so elect ; but as a matter of 
fact, adequate facilities for the laundrying of clothing are not provided in 
barracks and he is perforce compelled to patronize such individuals, resident 
in or in the vicinity of the post, as can advantageously carry on such work ; 
the usual monthly charge for this service being one dollar per man. 

At Jefferson Barracks a large steam-laundry plant, under control of the 
Quartermaster's Department, was long in operation and in every way 
yielded eminently satisfactory results. It was, however, unfortunately 
destroyed by fire several years since and has never been re-established. 
Such steam laundries, for hygienic reasons as well as for convenience and 
economy, should be installed at all posts garrisoned by sufficient troops to 
ensure the payment of their running expenses. It is obvious that hygienic 
precautions can be more carefully maintained in a large central laundry 
establishment than where soiled garments are scattered at frequent periods 
among a large number of insanitary households, in which they are often 
improperly cleansed and are frequently themselves exposed to the danger 
of infection with the elements of disease. 

Where steam laundries conducted by the Government would not be 
practicable, there is no reason why a large central laundry should not be 
established in each garrison and conducted under the management of the 
post exchange. The services of the women at present performing the work 
of laundresses could be hired by the new establishment ; and thus all soiled 
articles could be thoroughly and promptly cleansed, under sanitary condi- 
tions and at a minimum of cost to the soldier. 

In European armies, the barracks are supplied with an equipment of 
laundry apparatus; since the soldiers, by reason of their meagre pay, are 



608 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

necessarily forced to wash a considerable proportion of their own apparel. 
Laundresses, in the proportion of two to each battalion, were long included 
in the organization of the French army, but at present, in that service, 
the washing of soiled clothing is done by contract and at the expense of 
the Government. Each company receives a monthly sum for this pur- 
pose, amounting to about ten cents for each soldier but provision is made 
for the laundrying of only a limited number of articles and the excess must 
be washed by the man himself or be done at his expense. 

In time of war, the laundrying of clothing for troops cannot be properly 
performed by the people among whom the war is waged, and hence during 
campaign each soldier must wash his own clothing. As the proper per- 
formance of the operation is something of an art, troops should have prac- 
tical experience, prior to campaign, in the methods in which it is best 
accomplished in the field. Soiled body linen, when impregnated with 
sweat and dust, is irritant to the skin, favors the invasion and multiplica- 
tion of insect parasites and emits mephitic odors hence frequent oppor- 
tunities for the purification of such articles will conduce greatly to the 
health, comfort and efficiency of troops in camp or on the march. Filthy 
surroundings or garments may readily neutralize all efforts for the main- 
tenance of bodily cleanliness. Blankets, as well as underclothing, 
should be washed at suitable intervals a matter intimately related to the 
cleanliness of the soldier, yet one too often neglected. It occasionally 
happens that through inattention on the part of company officers to the 
personal cleanliness of their men, their underclothing is worn until it 
attains a most filthy condition. Bodily cleanliness cannot be maintained 
under such conditions even if a daily bath be taken, and vermin can usu- 
ally be traced to some such source. 

The facilities for the laundrying of clothing in the field are usually of 
a most primitive character. Artillerymen frequently employ for this pur- 
pose the canvas horse-buckets available in that branch of the service, while 
a rubber blanket placed over a shallow hole in the ground, as already noted 
in connection with bathing, answers equally well. A stray barrel, partially 
filled with soap-suds, can be excellently utilized ; clothing washed therein 
being secured to a rope and allowed to float in a running stream, if one be 
available, for several hours. The clothing should, whenever possible, be 
immersed in cold water for several hours before washing to soak out all 
soluble impurities. Water so employed is highly charged with organic 
matter and micro-organisms ; Miquel estimating that each cubic centimeter 
of such water contained, on an average, 26,000,000 bacteria, where ordi- 
nary sewage contained only 6,000,000. It is obvious that such water 
should never find its way into a source of supply, nor should it be thrown 
upon the ground in the vicinity of camps. Boiling, from the hygienic 
standpoint the essential part of the operation of washing, is necessarily 
omitted during campaign. After the preliminary soaking, the garments 
are soaped, rubbed, rinsed and hung up or spread on bushes to dry. 

Woolen articles, to prevent shrinkage, should be washed in cold*water 
without the use of much soap or of unnecessary manipulation and should 
be dried without wringing. In the absence of washing, woolen clothing 
may be cleansed by drying in the air and sunlight, followed by a thorough 
shaking and beating. Changes of clothing, treated in this manner, should 



THE PERSONAL CLEANLINESS OF THE SOLDIER. 609 

be worn on alternate days. The results given by this method are second 
only to those of actual washing. 

In the washing of clothing a certain proportion of soap is said to be 
with advantage replaced by petroleum. This method is habitually prac- 
tised in the armies of Russia and Germany, and has recently been adopted 
in various military hospitals throughout Europe. It is claimed for the 
process that cleansing is rendered easier, clothing suffers less deterioration 
and is made much whiter. The usual proportion employed in foreign 
armies is one gram of mineral oil for each liter of soapsuds used. 

The washing of clothing becomes a much more simple problem if the 
camp be located upon a water-course ; in which instance a special place 
should be set aside for laundry purposes, below the sources of water used 
for cooking and for the watering of animals. In time of epidemics, es- 
pecially of cholera or typhoid fever, the washing of clothing in the field 
becomes a particularly serious sanitary problem, since even a small stream 
may transport infectious micro-organisms over a long distance and induce 
outbreaks of disease in villages far down its course. 

In conclusion, it may be remarked that the maintenance of cleanliness 
of the person and apparel of the soldier demands constant watchfulness on 
the part of company officers. Individuals of careless or slovenly habits 
are usually recruits, and. if among old soldiers they will generally be forced 
by the latter to take measures looking to proper cleanliness of body and rai- 
ment. While soldiers are, as a rule, quick to appreciate the value of cleanli- 
ness of the person and clothing, and to take prompt advantage of such op- 
portunities as are afforded for its attainment, it is advisable that company 
officers frequently satisfy themselves by personal observation as to the 
proper condition of the more indolent. As expressed by Woodhull, " it is 
not sufficient to see that the arms are bright, the clothing spotless, or the 
bedding neatly rolled. Dirt that is hurtful is not the mud of the highway 
or field, nor the dust of the parade caught on the outside of the shoes and 
clothing; it is the cutaneous debris, mingled with dust and dissolved in 
perspiration, soaked into the underclothing, organic dirt that offends the 
nose as well as the eye, that depresses the subject and may poison hid 
comrade. " 
39 



CHAPTER XIV. 

MILITAEY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 

BROADLY speaking, the main causes affecting the health of troops are 
the manner of living, the environment and the food supplied. The first 
relates to the occurrence of overcrowding, imperfect ventilation, want of 
cleanliness and inattention to personal hygiene. The second is typified 
in the accidents arising from atmospheric or telluric influences, such as 
rapid death from heat and cold, the comparatively transient influences of 
the seasons and the slower and more durable effects of climate as modify- 
ing diseases of a restricted habitat. The last cause concerns the diseases 
brought about directly or indirectly by vicious alimentation. Beside these, 
other influences of a less apparent but scarcely less potent character oper- 
ate to affect the health, and consequently the efficiency, of armies. These 
act as predisposing rather than exciting causes of disease, and have special 
relation to the vital resistance of the soldier as affected by race, age, length 
and character of service, the fatigue and hardships of campaign and other 
factors. Some of these predisposing causes, in fact several of the most 
important of them, can readily be removed and thus prevented from con- 
tributing so materially to military inefficiency. With respect to others, 
sanitary science possesses no means for their elimination or avoidance and 
can at best merely endeavor to modify their effects ; but since no precau- 
tionary measures are capable of entirely neutralizing their results, they 
must be considered as more or less inevitable in their character. Operat- 
ing insidiously as these various predisposing factors do, they have not re- 
ceived in the past the consideration which their importance warrants, and 
a study of their influence upon the rates for sickness and death among 
troops is well worthy of the attention of the military sanitarian. These 
latter points it is the purpose of the present chapter to discuss. 

Army Medical Statistics. For a better understanding of the fol- 
lowing subject matter, a brief consideration of army medical statistics, 
considered both as a whole and separately, is of impwtance. Their pur- 
pose is to define the influence of military life upon health, and to permit the 
ready appreciation and accurate comparison of varying conditions of service 
and environment in their relation to the well-being of the soldier; hence 
a knowledge of their composition is important to the sanitary officer. 
Since each case of sickness in the military establishment at once becomes 
a matter of official record at tha hands of competent observers, it follows 
that statistics so obtained are not only more comprehensive but more accu- 
rate than those bearing on the occurrence of disease among civilians. 
Unfortunately for their general utility, however, they are based upon a 
physically superior class, always existing under restricted and unusual 
conditions and frequently in unfavorable surroundings, and hence deduc- 
tions which may be drawn from them cannot be legitimately applied out- 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 611 

side the limits of the military service. Unfortunately also, owing to the 
different systems of nomenclature and classification of diseases which have 
prevailed in the past, as well as to other causes which will be referred to 
later, it is not always possible accurately to compare the sickness and 
mortality from special causes occurring in different armies, or even for the 
military establishment and civilian classes of the same nation. The com- 
mittee on international military medical statistics which met at Budapest 
in 1894 has, however, formulated a plan which overcomes in great meas- 
ure the difficulties with which army statisticians have had to contend, 
leads to a common basis of comparison and will ultimately be the means 
of affording a large amount of information hitherto not available. 

In the British army, statistics with regard to sickness and mortality 
were first compiled shortly after the close of the Peninsular war, but were 
published at long and irregular intervals. They gave much information 
with regard to the healthfuliiess of various stations, but the advent of the 
Crimean war caused their temporary discontinuance. In 1859 their pub- 
lication was again resumed and they have since been issued annually. 
Army statistics have been collected in France and Germany since the 
Napoleonic wars, but have not been regularly made available for general 
use ; frequently being issued only in part or not at all. Of late years, 
France has not given 'out full information as to the occurrence of disease 
and death among her military forces. Elaborate statistical reports with 
respect to the health of troops are now published by Austria, Russia, Bel- 
gium, Italy and other foreign countries. In the United States army, satis- 
factory data for the period prior to 1840 are not available, and it is only 
since 1884 that figures sufficiently elaborate to be of any great value to 
the statistician have been compiled and published. At present, the official 
returns show not only the amount of loss the army annually incurs from 
various forms of disease, but also the causes leading thereto; as influenced 
by race, age, length of service, arm of service, season, station and other 
factors. 

Little information is gained by recording the statistics of disease as a 
whole ; since so many factors combine in the production of the final result 
that these must be studied separately to arrive at a proper understanding of 
the significance of the latter. 

The main points upon which army medical statistics are based are as 
follows : 

1. The number of admissions to sick report as compared with the 
number of persons furnishing the sick. This is accomplished by taking 
the actual numbers in both classes and reducing them to a comparable 
standard in rates per thousand. The numbers furnishing the sick are ob- 
viously reduced by those sick in quarters or hospital ; but as a general rule 
an equivalent number of men are returned to duty or are enlisted to replace 
the losses through death or disability. In our service, statistics are based 
on the total strength. 

2. The rate of deaths per thousand strength. This is obtained by the 
division of the total number of deaths occurring during the year by the 
mean annual strength, including the absent as well as those serving with 
the colors. The figures thus obtained are then reduced to rates per thou- 
sand. 



612 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

3. The rate of discharges for disability from disease, per thousand 
strength obtained by dividing the losses from discharge by the mean 
strength and then reducing to the above standard of comparison. 

4. The total losses from disease, per thousand strength ; as determined 
by the sum of the rates for mortality and for discharge for disability from 
this cause. 

5. The rate of constant sickness, or constant inefficiency. This is 
given by adding the numbers put down as remaining under treatment at 
the end of each day, week or month and dividing by the number of days, 
weeks or months in the period desired, again reducing to the comparable 
standard. 

6. The number of days of service lost by each soldier. This is found 
by adding together the total number of sick days furnished by a command 
during a given period and dividing the result by the mean strength of the 
command for that period. 

In all computations the figures are reduced to common terms of one 
year and one thousand strength. 

Comparative Loss in Campaign from Sickness and Wounds. 
Since the great military epidemics of antiquity the destruction of the 
Assyrians under Sennacherib; the plague described as occurring during 
the Peloponnesian war; the pestilences which ravaged the Roman and 
Carthaginian armies ; the great losses sustained by the army of Severus in 
the marshes of Caledonia it has been established as a general rule that, 
in protracted wars, armies suffer much less from wounds and deaths incurred 
in action than from disease ; a fact which conclusively shows the necessity 
for a proper knowledge of military hygiene. The constant advance in 
sanitation, however, based upon a more accurate knowledge of etiological 
factors, has exerted a marked effect in diminishing military morbidity 
and mortality ; and while in the future comparatively high rates for sick- 
ness and death among troops engaged in war are always to be expected, it 
is scarcely possible that such disastrous epidemics as have prevailed in 
times gone by could be repeated in the future. Further, wars become 
shorter as they become, through modern refinements, more expensive ; and 
troops, particularly in an aggressive and decisive campaign, are not now 
exposed to unhealthful influences to as great a degree as was the case 
when hostilities were more protracted. With improvement in the effec- 
tiveness of arms, both as regards range and rapidity of action, the pro- 
portion of casualty for any period of action must naturally be increased 
and hence there is a constant tendency toward the approximation of the 
rates from wounds and disease. 

From the records of the past, however, many valuable lessons can still 
be drawn. In 1809, during the Walcheren expedition, the mortality in 
the British army from disease was 346.9 per thousand effectives, while 
only 16.7 per thousand were killed by the enemy. A few years later the 
British army in Spain lost three times as many men by disease as tyy the 
result of conflict, and the sick rate mounted to such proportions that more 
than twice the number of men composing the army passed through the 
hospitals during the year. In the Russian campaign against Turkey, 
in 1828, it was estimated that 80,000 men died of disease and 20,000 in 
consequence of wounds. During General Scott's campaign in Mexico the 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



losses from disease alone exceeded 33 per cent, of the effective strength of 
the forces under his command ; and of a single regiment of Indiana volun- 
teers, which entered the service 1,000 strong, only 400 returned to 7 the 
State for muster out. Laveran states that in the Crimean War the allies 
lost 52,000 men in six months, of which number 50,000 men were un- 
harmed by the Russians ; while during the entire war, according to Viry, 
the French lost, in round numbers, out of a total force of 300,900 men, 
no less than 95,000, of whom 75,000 died of disease and only 20,000 died 
on the field or succumbed to wounds. In this campaign nearly one-fourth 
of the French medical officers are said to have perished from disease. 
During the war in Italy, in 1859, a period of hostilities of only short 
duration, there were, from the French force of 200,000 men, 129,950 ad- 
missions to hospital. In the war carried on by France in Mexico the 
mortality from gunshot and that from sickness was in the proportion of 
10 to 29. 

The mortality among the United States forces in the Civil War was 
divided as follows : 



Mortality. 


White. 


Colored. 


Total. 


Killed in battle . . . : 


42 724 


1 514 


44 238 


Died of wounds 


47914 


1,817 


49 781 


Died of disease 


r !57,004 


29.212 


186216 


Died cause unknown . . 


23,347 


887 


24 184 










Total 


270,989 


83,380 


804369 











From the most reliable data available, the deaths in the armies of the 
Confederate States during this struggle did not fall short of 200,000, three- 
fourths of which number were due to disease and one-fourth to the casual- 
ties of battle. 

In 1866, in the war against Austria, out of a total strength of 437,260, 
the Prussians lost in an unusually brief and decisive campaign 6,427 men 
by sickness and 4,450 at the hands of the enemy. The Franco-German 
war, in 1870-71, furnishes the only exception to the general rule that 
more men are killed by disease than by the weapons of the enemy, since 
of the German army 33.7 per thousand strength fell in battle, while only 
18.6 per thousand died of disease. This admirable result was largely due 
to the proper observance of sanitary precautions; assisted, no doubt, by 
the brevity of the campaign, the rapidity of the movements and the fact 
that active operations were conducted during the most healthful season of 
the year. In the Russo-Turkish war of 1878, according to Viry, the 
Russians lost 102,799 men, of whom only 16,578 were killed by the 
enemy. During the Spanish- American war of 1898, for the five months 
which included the total period of hostilities, of the 274,717 officers and 
men enrolled in the United States forces, there were only 345 men killed 
by the enemy while 2,565 succumbed to disease. For the whole year of 
1898 the deaths from wounds in our service gave a rate of 0.62 per thou- 
sand strength, the killed in battle amounted to 2.79 per thousand strength, 
while the deaths from all causes aggregated 30.31 per thousand. Even 
in July, the month in which aggressive operations against Santiago were 



614 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

conducted, the killed in action amounted to only 1.25 per thousand, while 
the deaths from disease were 1.78 per thousand. 

An interesting side-light on the later results of hard campaigning is 
given by Rosse, in his statement that of the old soldiers carried on the 
United States pension rolls those disabled by disease are more than four 
times greater in number than those pensioned for wounds. 

Death Rates in Civil and Military Life. The difficulties attend- 
ing an accurate comparison of death rates for the military service and those 
of civil life are necessarily very great. Owing to the rejection of intend- 
ing recruits, many individuals are at once returned to private life whose 
early demise would otherwise have gone to swell the military death rate. 
Further, the army is maintained as a select body of physically sound men, 
and its weaklings are constantly undergoing elimination from the service 
ultimately to increase the mortality of civil life. Hence the civilian rates 
are unduly increased, while army statistics fail to show all the deaths 
presumably due to military service and it is obvious that the more rigor- 
ously the standard for the soldier is maintained as regards physical excel- 
lence, the more favorable the showing apparently made for a military life. 
Vallin, in France, in 1871, placed the probable error due to the above 
causes at as much as 9.19 per thousand, thus practically doubling the 
figures for the military death rate of his time. Viry considered this allow- 
ance to be too high, but believed that a rate of 3.60 per thousand for such 
as leave the colors with incurable disease should be added to the military 
and subtracted from the civilian death rates ; thus making a difference of 
7.20 per thousand. The later estimates of Marvaud placed the probable 
error at 4 per thousand. While it is probably correct for the French ser- 
vice to add 3.60 or even 4 per thousand to the military death rate, to de- 
duct the same number from the civilian rate involves the broad assumption 
that the numbers in each class exactly correspond. For our own service, 
the immense disproportion existing between the present small army of 
65,000 men and the large number of males of the military age living in 
the United States renders the influence of the comparatively small number 
of soldiers who may be discharged for incurable disease, upon the civilian 
death rate, of so little importance that it may practically be disregarded. 
The census returns for 1880 give the annual de^th rate for disease as 6.97 
per thousand for all males between the ages of twenty and forty-five years. 
During the same year the mortality from disease in the United States army 
was 5.88 per thousand apparently a distinct advantage in favor of the 
military service. If, however, Viry's factor, above mentioned, be accepted 
as correct for our service, the true mortality dependent on military service 
becomes 9.48, or 2.51 per thousand in excess of the civilian rate for the 
same period. As it is probable that since that time the death rate in the 
military service has diminished in proportionately greater degree than has 
been the case in civil life, it may be fairly assumed that, under conditions 
of peace, the death rate in our army is at present but slightly in excess of 
the mortality for the same class in civil life. The results obtained by Fair 
in his comparisgn of the death rate in the British army with the corre- 
sponding classes of civil life, made a generation ago, are as follows : 

Age. 20-25 Soldiers 17.0 death rate per 1,000. 

Civilians 8.4 " " 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 615 

Age. 25-80 Soldiers 18.8 death rate per 1,800. 

Civilians 9.2 

30-36 Soldiers 18.4 

Civilians 10.2 

85-40 Soldiers 19.2 

Civilians 11.6 

According to Notter and Firth, the present death rate of the civil male 
population in England, at the soldier's age, is as follows: 

Age. 20-25 5.4 mortality per 1,000. 

.'.v-88 T.I u ' u 

85-45.. * 12.8 

Between the ages of 20 and 34, according to these authorities, the 
mortality is in favor of the soldier, but after 35 the mortality is reversed 
and the civil rates are lower. 

For the British service the death rate for the home stations was 3.42 
per thousand in 1897 and 4.68 per thousand for the decade 1887-1896. 
If the civilian death rate for all males of the military age be accepted as 
about 7 per thousand, the showing made compares favorably with similar 
figures for the German army and is superior to the French mortality rates. 
This is certainly a great improvement over the conditions existing in 1856, 
when it was shown tnat the mortality in the army at large was twice as 
great as among the civilian population, and in the case of the Foot Guards 
three times as great. 

As regards the German army, it was recently stated by its surgeon - 
general that during the early part of this century the death rate of the 
male civil population of Prussia, between 20 and 30 years of age, was 
lower than that of the military death rate, the figures being 14 per thou- 
sand for the army and 10 per thousand for the civil population. This 
condition is now reversed, and in 1893 the death rate in Prussia for the 
civil male population from 20 to 30 years of age was 6.38 per thousand, 
while at the same time the mortality for the German army was 3.00 per 
thousand. While these results are certainly admirable and are undoubt- 
edly in large part due to careful observance of sanitary regulations, it 
should be remembered that soldiers unable to maintain the required physi- 
cal standard are probably more thoroughly eliminated in the German ser- 
vice, and at an earlier period in their military training, than in other 
armies. 

In the French army, on the home stations, the average annual death 
rate from 1882 to 1890, inclusive, was 7.88 per thousand strength; while 
Bertillon fixed the annual mortality among the civilian male population, 
between the ages of 20 and 25, at 10.60 per thousand. Marvaud, how- 
ever, believed that the estimate made by Bertillon was too low, and placed 
the annual death rate for civilians of the military age at 12 per thousand. 
Using Marvaud's coefficient of error, given above, the corrected rate for 
the French military service would become 11.88, while it would be 8 per 
thousand for the same class in civil life. Marvaud concludes, with refer- 
ence to this subject, " that, in spite of all ameliorations which have been 
introduced, chiefly of late years, into the hygienic surroundings of the 
French soldier, his mortality rate is still elevated and certainly exceeds that 
of the same sex and age in civil life." 



616 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Loss of Time from Sickness. In the United States service the 
annual average number of days lost per man, for the decade 1886-1895, 
was 14.64. For the year 1896 it was 12.43 and in 1897 it was 13.08. 
In comparing the number of days lost by white soldiers with those lost by 
colored troops, the showing is slightly in favor of the latter. For the 
entire British army, during the decade 1887-1896, the number of days 
lost per man was 21.38, while during 1897 it was 22.72. Among the 
British troops at the home stations the number of sick days per man did 
not differ very greatly from those of our own army for the same periods, 
being only a fraction of one day in excess. According to Rosse, in a state- 
ment of the morbidity of various armies issued about 1884, the lowest rates 
given were those of the Portuguese, Austro-Hungarian, Italian and German 
armies, the sick days of each man in the effective force being from 13 to 
15 yearly among the troops of these nations, while in the French and 
English armies, prior to that date, the rate had been 16 to 17 annually. 

As compared with the time lost by the corresponding classes in civil 
life, Rosse noted that, for the period 1872 to 1892, the average annual 
number of days of sickness was 6 to 8 for each workingman belonging to 
various mutual aid societies ; he fixing the general military morbidity for 
the same period at figures two and one-half times greater than those of the 
corresponding civil classes. According to Paget, the following rate of 
sickness, such as incapacitates for work, may be expected at different ages 
for males of the English working classes: At 20 years expect 4 days of 
sickness yearly; at 20-30 years expect 5 to 6 days of sickness yearly; at 
45 years expect 7 days of sickness yearly. Marvaud states that, in 1894, 
the French soldier lost 13 days annually 9 in hospital and 4 in barracks 
while his civilian compatriots of corresponding age lost on an average 
only about half that time; notwithstanding the fact that the hygienic 
surroundings in the military service were much superior to those of civil 
life. 

While in time of war or active operations the existence of a high rate 
of inefficiency and the loss of a greater amount of time are to be antici- 
pated, such conditions, as compared with those of the corresponding classes 
of the male civil population, should not, theoretically, obtain in time of 
peace. Their actual existence under the latter condition is probably due 
to the fact that the workingman does not feel able to stop his daily task 
except for serious illness, while the soldier whose pay and living are 
assured and whose medical attendance is gratuitous is inclined to abuse 
his privileges, often endeavoring to get his name on sick report for the 
slightest indisposition, or none at all, and to have it retained there for as 
long a period as possible; this being particularly attempted when any 
unusually irksome or disagreeable task is to be performed. That such, 
indeed, is the case is demonstrated by the fact that, according to Killings, 
it may be estimated that for every case of death there is an average of two 
years sickness in the civil community; while in the United States Army, 
for the absolute number of deaths occurring and days of service lost dur- 
ing the year 1897, the proportion was such as to show a total of 3,867 
days of sickness to each death reported. This gives a total of 10.6 years 
sickness for each death; a rate more than five times greater than that 
obtaining in civil life and one which can be explained only by the above 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



617 



hypothesis. In view of the unfavorable showing made by military statis- 
tics in this respect, it would appear that greater discretion and severity 
should be exercised in admitting the soldier to sick report ; and that, if 
once admitted, his earlier return to his duties would frequently be produc- 
tive of neither injury nor hardship. 

Race as Influencing Military Mortality and Morbidity. While 
satisfactory data on this subject as regards foreign armies are naturally 
not available, the several rates from disease in our own service, with its 
heterogeneous personnel, have been calculated according to nativity. For 
the seven years 1890-1896, they were determined, per thousand strength, 
to be as follows : 





Admissions 
to hospital. 


Constantly 
non-effective. 


Discharges 
for disability. 


Deaths. 


Total tosses. 


United States 


1,043.43 


80.74 


12.98 


3.96 


16 94 


Ireland 


962.05 


26.87 


14.52 


5.46 


. 1998 


Germany 


810.10 


24.67 


18.20 


4.14 


1784 


England 


907.11 


23.56 


12.46 


4 26 


16 72 


Canada 


1 033 14 


3281 


1887 


4 16 


23 03 


Scandinavia 


88608 


26 55 


1833 


5 17 


1^ :,n 


Scotland 


852.88 


25.64 


12.50 


1.47 


1397 


Switzerland / . . 


888.75 


27.82 


12.31 


2.90 


15.11 


Austria 


807.14 


21.68 


16.53 


2.67 


19.20 


Denmark 


836.93 


26.21 


13.88 


5.55 


18.88 


France 


1,049.48 


30.89 


10.56 


7.04 


17 60 


All others 


821.42 


23.90 


13.66 


3.86 


17.52 















It should be noted, however, that the figures given for the countries 
named in the latter half of the above table are not to be regarded as 
absolute, since they are not based upon a sufficiently large number of men 
to avoid the possibility of error. These rates are, however, of particular 
interest since, so far as they go, they tend to bear out the popular belief 
that the native-born American possesses a greater proportion of vital force 
and greater power of resistance against death than does the foreigner. 

Race proclivity, as regards sickness, is well shown by the records of 
the British forces in the West Indies, in which, for the ten years 1879- 
1888, the admissions per thousand of strength for white troops were 966.9, 
colored, 1,114.2; constantly non-effective, whites 46.62, colored 62.35; 
deaths, whites 14.94, colored 14.81; discharges for disability, whites 
13.57, colored 39.33. In the United States service, the much greater 
proportion of sickness and deaths occurring among the negro troops during 
the Civil War, as compared with white soldiers, is shown in the chart 
on page 619. For the decade 1877-1886, the death rate among the 
whites of our army was still much lower than among the colored troops ; 
the rates being 9.97 per thousand for the former and 12.91 for the latter. 
In 1888 the report of the surgeon-general called attention to the fact that 
the amount of sickness among the colored troops was greater than that 
among the white soldiers stationed in the same military departments. 
There has been, however, a constant tendency for the past twenty years 
toward the approximation of the rates for the whites and blacks in our ser- 
vice; and the relative rates per thousand for white troops as compared 
with those for the colored troops, during the year 1897, were as follows: 



618 THEOBY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 





Admissions 
to hospital. 


Constantly 
non-effective. 


Discharges 
for disability. 


Deaths. 


Total losses. 


\Vhitcs 


85.72 


11.04 


9.62 


5.05 


14.67 


Colored 


37.24 


10.89 


9.51 


5.89 


15.40 















Since 1897 the relative proportion of deaths, discharges and admis- 
sions to hospital has not differed to any extent among the white and 
colored troops. 

In the distribution of diseases among white troops, according to nativ- 
ity, typhoid fever and rheumatic fever had their greatest prevalence in our 
service, for the years 1890-1896, among the Canadians and Scandina- 
vians. The highest admission rates for consumption were 5.70 among the 
French and 4.76 among the Scotch; the lowest rates were 1.42 among the 
English and 1.49 among the Germans the rate among the natives of the 
Suited States being 3.33. Pneumonia was more frequent among Cana- 
dians, 5.18, and Scotch, 4.76, than in men of other nativities. The rate 
for this disease among the natives of the United States was 3.90. Venereal 
disease prevailed more among men born in the United States and Canada 
than among the others, the admission rates for these two classes being 
93.98 and 91.92 respectively; the Irish and Swiss had the lowest rates, 
47.66 and 50.96. The Irish, however, had by far the largest relative 
number of cases of alcoholism, 90.96. The smallest rates for this cause 
were given by the Danes, 12.59, and Austrians, 19.00; the admission rate 
for the native-born American soldier having been 28.51 for this cause. 

Sickness and Death Rate as Affected by Season. Military 
morbidity and mortality are to a certain extent influenced by seasonal 
changes ; varying according to the climatic conditions prevailing in each 
country or locality, by which the propagation of certain affections is either 
favored or retarded. In the French army the admissions to hospital for 
disease, in time of peace, reach the maximum of 57 or 58 in January and 
fall to the minimum of about 38 per thousand in September. In the 
Italian army, for the period 1872-1892, the greatest amount of sickness 
occurred in March and the least in November. In the United States 
service the late summer period is the most unhealthful, while the late fall 
and early winter give the least sickness as far as troops on the home 
stations are concerned. 

On analyzing the figures for the seasonal prevalence of disease as it 
existed during the decade 1888-1897, the monthly admission rate was 
usually high in January from influenza and bronchitic attacks. From this 
point it fell to a minimum in April, after which it rose, slowly during 
May and June and rapidly in July and August, to the maximum of the 
year. It remained high in September, but fell again during the last three 
months of the annual period. The wave of prevalence during the months 
f July, August and September was due to malarial diseases. Prior to 
the decade mentioned this autumnal wave was larger than in recent years, 
there was frequently a slight prominence in the curve in May or 
June, corresponding with a sudden increase of cases of intermittent fever. 

For the year 1899 there is little to be learned from a study of this 
curve of prevalence, for the climatic and other influences which affected it 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



619 



were too complex to be considered from this point of view ; and even with 
troops on the home stations, differences are found which are evidently not 



KB 3. 
II w 



23 g 

02 B 



e* ~ 
_ I O 



if 



=1 





i 



I IfflBf 


\\i u , , ,T jyu , jj , ,, fl , , , MCK 

p iiisi 1 i ll 1 ill i i i.| I RATE 


* ' ( ' T T 


; ; ; ; AHY 


YEAR ENDINQ JUNE 30, 1862., 


























MA*. : , , ,,,!,, 


MM 


AWdt ! i : 




MAY 3 g 




JUHC 


>, 




i 


| YEAR ENDINQ JUNE 30, 1863. 




... 




'<','< 




, 


NOV. . S 


. 










rcftft. - - - - J r ( : ' ' - 








, . ;,l 
APftlL , , . . 1 C , , I , 




T y 

MAY , , i > J L . . 


, 


[ N 
JU*I I ,.,.,.- , , , 








| YEAR ENDINQ JUNE 30, 1864. | 






ttrr. i , . : * 


AU 




. . ' 




' 


OeO. - f ,...'(..''..-. _ 


_,.'. 


jA*. 1 l.\ J_ 


occ. 




. 


MAft. . ! 1 i , . 1 i 


'... 




1 ' 




i 


jy^g S f ! ! I 1 , | , , 


' ., 




JOM 






YEAR ENDINQ JUNE 30, 1865. 








. .'' 




|P ... ' '' 




,' 




k occ. 




^ 




T 










WNI ., | .,,!,,,,, 


( ; JUNC 


JULY - f III,,. 


JlfcY 


YEAR ENDINQ JUNE 30, 1866. 






OCT. L ,,,!,., , , 1 1 ! ! , 




/ . 








ua, .. t ,:'. : [ 






















1 1 1 1 1 1 ' 1 1 1 1 1 II 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Ul . otAT 


H 


., ' ' ! - ' ' ' i i ' 1 1 i ' rtfi 





due to climatic conditions in this country but to previous service of the 
troops in other climates. The conditions of field service also materially 
alter the rates of seasonal prevalence as established for troops in garrison. 



620 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Thus for the year 1898, when the army, if not entirely engaged in active 
military operations, was, after the month of March, still in the field and 
on a war footing, the monthly rates per thousand strength were as fol- 
lows : 





Admissions 
from disease. 


Discharges 
from disease. 


Deaths 
from disease. 


Total losses 
from disease. 


January 


68.11 


0.40 


0.33 


0.73 


February . ... .... 


59.68 


.40 


.18 


.58 


March 


65.75 


.50 


.21 


.71 


April 


65.12 


.95 


.24 


1.19 


May 


80.90 


.31 


.21 


.52 


June 


68.25 


.29 


.36 


.65 


July 


150.15 


.31 


1.81 


2.12 


August 


254.61 


.41 


6.14 


6.55 


September 


271.79 


.3) 


4.73 


5.08 


October 


200.48 


.79 


2.06 


2.85 


November 


186.06 


1.11 


1.07 


2.18 


December 


212.63 


1.14 


.84 


1.98 













Locality as Affecting Health. This is clearly a subject which can 
be only generally considered, since the rates for each station will vary 
with the local conditions of climate, soil, water, environment, the charac- 
ter of the service upon which troops are employed and many other factors. 
Within the United States, for troops in the various military departments 
existing under conditions of peace, the following table shows the relative 
amount of sickness during the year 1897. 



Department. 


Annual death 
rate per 
1,000 strength. 


Annual discharge 
rate per 
1,000 strength. 


Duration of 
treatment among 
patients 
who died. 


Duration of 
treatment among 
patients who were 
discharged 
for disability. 


Average 
number of sick 
daily. 


Average duration 
of treatment. 


Total losses by 
death 
and discharge for 
disability. 


Admission 
rate per 1,000 
strength. 


Constantly non- 
effective 
per 1,000 strength. 


East 


5 61 


5 85 


17 80 


83 40 


287 28 


10 38 


11 46 


1 260 04 


35 88 


Missouri 


5.30 


6 91 


16 78 


86 06 


157 36 


11 13 


12 21 


1*188 89 


86 25 


Dakota 


4 77 


9 55 


28 17 


109 54 


85 28 


12 70 


14 32 


975 33 


33 93 


Plattc 


7 27 


4 59 


22 37 


119 67 


96 61 


10 43 


11 86 


1 294 41 


36 99 


Texas 


6 24 


7 38 


5 27 


100 38 


69 88 


9 51 


13 62 


1 522 14 


39 65 


Colorado 


3 56 


13 93 


73 45 


115 81 


110 07 


10 21 


17 49 


1 274 05 


35 66 


California ..'... 


8 15 


6 30 


24 40 


66 40 


41 81 


11 81 


9 45 


813 60 


26 33 


Columbia 


6 20 


10 33 


36 56 


75 47 


87 25 


11 94 


16 53 


788 44 


25 65 























From the above it is seen that the Department of California is the 
most healthful, with the Department of the Columbia and Dakota closely 
following. The Department of Texas has long been recognized as the 
most unhealthful military division within the limits of the United States. 

The statistics for the entire British army in time of peace are of par- 
ticular importance, covering as they do a large number of geographical 
divisions under diverse climatic conditions and enabling the making of 
accurate comparisons through the similar sanitary, military and adminis- 
trative conditions prevailing throughout the whole. The figures for that 
service, for the ten years 1887 to 1896, are given below. 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 
RATIO PER 1,000 STRENGTH. 



621 



European Troops. 


| 

< 


I 


Sent home as 
invalids. 


Discharged as 
invalids. 


Constantly 
non-effective 
from sickness. 


Average sick 
time to 
each soldier. 


Average 
duration of 
each case 

of sickness. 1 




997.4 


8.81 


23.65 


14.52 


58.57 


Days. 
21.38 


Days. 
21.47 


United Kingdom 


785.9 


4.68 




16.27 


42.51 


15.52 


21.04 


Gibraltar 


708.8 


4.01 


15.23 


8.25 


46.65 


17.02 


24.01 


Malta 


666.9 


7.53 


19.20 


10.53 


44.29 


16.17 


24.25 


EsrvDt and Cyprus. . 


998.8 


11.08 


19.04 


12.09 


65.48 


23.90 


2393 


Canada 


499.1 


4.37 


14.84 


11.90 


25.54 


9.82 


18.68 


Bermuda 


559'.2 


10.07 


12.65 


8.14 


29.58 


10.80 


19.31 


West Indies 


1,119.8 


8.43 


20.23 


13.40 


64.48 


23.54 


21.08 


West Africa* 


2,652.7 


45.02 


237.94 


12.86 


84.89 


30.98 


11.68 


South Africa and St Helena. 


868.3 


6.63 


23.97 


14.54 


55.85 


20.39 


23.48 


Mauritius 


1,364.4 


15.04 


55.94 


17.42 


73.76 


26.92 


19.87 


Ceylon 


1,028.0 


11.10 


20.35 


11.42 


58.29 


21.27 


20.69 


China 


1,324.7 


11.81 


38.34 


14.28 


64.97 


23.71 


17.91 


Straits Settlements 


1,072.1 


6.73 


18.14 


9.27 


72.48 


26.46 


24.68 


India 


1,443.9 


15.50 


25.17 


13.24 


84.87 


30.98 


21.45 


On board ship 


1,132.8 


6.41 





























* For eight years only, 1889 to 1898. 



It is readily seen that the total losses vary from the minimum of 12.26 
per thousand at Gibraltar to the maximum of 57.88 on the west coast of 
Africa ; while the death rate of troops at home is only about half that of 
the entire army. The discharges for disability in the latter instance are 
slightly higher, while the constant non-effective is considerably lower, as 
is also the number of days lost by each soldier. 

The mortality among the European troops of the French army on for- 
eign service, per thousand strength, according to Gayet, is thus propor- 
tioned among the following stations : 

Algeria Iltol2 

Antilles 18 to 22 

Senegal about 73 

Reunion before the Madagascar expedition 28 to 80 

Reunion after the Madagascar expedition 80 to 90 

New Caledonia 9 to 10 

Cochin China 22 to 24 

Tonkin about 75 

While thoroughly satisfactory statistics with regard to our own troops at 
tropical stations are not as yet available, owing to the somewhat unsettled 
conditions as yet existing, particularly in the Philippines, figures for the 
regular and volunteer forces for the year 1899 are as follows: 



Per 1,000 of Mean Strength. 


Cuba. 


Porto Rico. 


Pacific Islands. 


Admissions for disease 


2,587.98 


2,255.97 


2,206.36 


Discharges for disease 


16.26 


16.63 


18 16 


Deaths from disease 


16.36 


9.12 


15.80 











Similar statistics for troops stationed in the United States during the same 
period, per thousand strength, were: Admissions for disease, 1,496.84; 



622 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



discharges for disease, 22.28; deaths from disease, 6.56. It is thus evi- 
dent that service in the tropical islands is about three and one-half times 
as hazardous as service at home stations. 

Branch of Service as Affecting Health. It has long been noted 
that troops of certain arms are more prone to disease and death than are 
others ; this being explainable by the character of the duties each is re- 
quired to perform, as well as by the diverse conditions of environment 
under which they are, through military necessity, forced to exist. As 
compared with infantry and artillery, the cavalry service may be consid- 
ered to be somewhat more unhealthful and dangerous to life; this being 
due to the more arduous nature of the service and to the uncleanly nature 
of a large part of the duties of the mounted soldier. The chief factor in 
raising the rates of the cavalry above the mean for the army is, however, due 
to the much greater liability to accident. In time of peace, for all armies, 
the mortality and sickness in the infantry is usually less than in any other 
of the main branches of the service, but in war this favorable showing does 
not continue. 

In the United States army, for the seven years 1890-1896, the rates 
for disease alone, per thousand enlisted men, divided according to branch 
of service, were : 





Admissions 
to hospital. 


Constantly 
non-effective. 


Discharges 
for disability. 


Deaths. 


Total losses. 


Infantry 


916 27 


27 96 


13 67 


4 34 


18 01 


Cavalry 


1 076 56 


30 87 


13 36 


3 98 


17 34 


Artillery 


1 163 61 


31 81 


15 61 


2 94 


18 55 


Ordnance 


1 007 15 


25 69 


9 79 


7 20 


16 99 


Engineers 


1 371 55 


29 88 


7 56 


2 84. 


10 40 


Medical department 
All others 


468.85 
941 51 


14.99 
30 23 


11.24 
1015 


5.14 
5 07 


16.38 

IS OO 















The high death rate noted in the enlisted strength of the Ordnance 
Department is probably largely dependent on the greater age of these men ; 
many being old soldiers, superannuated, unfit to stand hard service and 
broken in constitution by the hardships of a former active life. 

For the seven year period above noted the rates for all causes were : 





Admissions 
to hospital. 


Constantly 
non-effective. 


Discharges 
for disability. 


Deaths. 


Total losses. 


Infantry 


1 154 21 


35 3ft 


1ft 79 


ft A.Q 


9Q O1 


Cavalry 


1 464 10 


43 Q^ 


nftl 


7 91 


M QK 


Artillery 


1 457 87 


41 11 


18 47 


5 on 


OQ 77 


Ordnance 


1 187 38 


31 R1 


nOQ 


| A OK 


O1 QQ 


Engineers 


1 684 92 


38 4-^ 


7 ftQ. 


4TQ 


1O A1 


Medical department 
All others 


527.04 
1 100 02 


17.08 
34 77 


12.19 

19 19 


6.09 

619 


18.28 
to )-, 















The high rate of admissions among the engineer troops was due to in- 
juries and malarial fevers, with a considerable excess of alcoholism, bron- 
chitis, diarrhoea and rheumatism. The disabling causes which produced 
the high rate in the cavalry as compared with infantry were injuries, 
Inch gave a rate of 387.54 as compared with the infantry rate, 237.94; 
the excess of admissions among the cavalry was not thus entirely ac- 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



623 



counted for. Malarial affections were the principal causes of this excess, 
but diarrhoea, boils and abscesses, and conjunctivitis also aided in making 
up the total. 

Among the officers, for the above period, the sick rate was largest in 
the artillery, 980.11 per thousand. Non-efficiency was greatest among 
officers of the cavalry and artillery 53.90 and 52.57 respectively. Medi- 
cal officers had a higher rate (47.07) than infantry officers (46.05). The 
death rate per thousand among officers, according to branch of service, 
was as follows : 



Infantry 8.81 

Cavalry 10.34 

Artillery 6.08 

Ordnance ... . 17.41 



Engineers 11.07 

Medical department 10.20 

All others . 12.82 



Death from injury was relatively more frequent among ordnance officers 
than in those of other corps. 

Marvaud gives the following figures as showing the comparative mor- 
tality in different branches of the French service for the six years 1880- 
1885, inclusive. 





Death rate. 


Loss by 
invaliding. 


Total losses. 


Engineers . 


5 2 


14 4 


19 6 


Light infantry 


7 


11 7 


18 7 


Artillery 


74 


12 9 


20 3 


Cavalry 


88 


13 2 


22 


Infantry of the line 


102 


16 6 


26 8 


African light infantry 


17 2 


145 


31 7 


Foreign legion 


19 8 


8 7 


28 5 











In the English service, in 1897, the following rates per thousand ob- 
tained for troops on the home stations. 





Deaths. 


Constantly 
non-effective. 


Infantry 


278 


44 79 


Royal engineers 


3.64 


17.75 


Cavalry 


8.98 


42 39 


Royal artillery ... . . . . .... 


4.00 


3249 


Foot guards 


4.20 


63.03 









In time of war it is, of course, the troops which are most exposed to the 
dangers of battle and the hardships of campaign which suffer to the great- 
est extent in respect to sickness and death. 

Influence of Length of Service upon Morbidity and Mortality. 
The most extensive figures for the United States army upon this subject, 
compiled to include a period of seven years, merely divide the men into 
those who have had less and those who have had more than one year of 
service and these show that recruits during their first year with the 
colors are especially liable to sickness. For the entire period (1890-1896), 
the admission rate to hospital of this first class was 2,122.17, jvhile that of 
the older soldiers was only 1,093.07 or about one-half as much. The 
non-efficiency for recruits was 61.76, as compared with 32.99 for men of 
longer service; and their sickness was of such a character as to cause 



624 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

24.96 per thousand of their number to be discharged on certificates of disa- 
bility, as compared with a discharge rate of 14.76 among the others. 

As to the causes affecting the above figures, the vaccination practised 
in the case of recruits brought a considerable number of cases on sick re- 
port; a little over 200 per thousand strength being thus added to their ad- 
mission rate. With the exception of alcoholism, these young soldiers ap- 
pear to have been more susceptible to all disabling causes than their more 
experienced comrades. As illustrative of this may be cited their admis- 
sion rate for injuries, 414.91, as compared with 242.93 among the others; 
for venereal diseases, 156.52, as compared with 65.81; malarial diseases, 
137.84, as compared with 70.97, and typhoid fever, 11.22, as compared 
with 4.68. 

For the single year 1885, the admissions to hospital in the United 
States army, according to length of service, were divided as follows : 



Period. 


Absolute number in 
each class. 


Rate of admissions 
per 1,000 strength. 


First year and under 


6,205 


2,254 


Second year 


3,632 


1,064 


Third year 


2,645 


984 


Fourth year 


2249 


967 


Fifth year . 


1 053 


1 064 


Sixth year . . . 


1 148 


901 


Seventh year 


897 


970 


Eighth year 


629 


1,057 


Ninth year 


738 


927 


Tenth year . .... 


921 


991 


Twelfth year . . . . 


1 351 


1 007 


Fifteenth year and over 


4,587 


823 









For the same year the discharges for disability, divided according to 
length of service, were as follows : 



Discharges for 
Service. disability, per 1,000 

strength. 
Under 1 year 64.9 

1 year : 41.5 

2 years 33.3 

3 " 29.0 

4 " 16.8 

5 u 22.2 

6 " . 23.2 



Service. 



Discharges for 

disability, per 1,000 

strength. 



7 years 15.3 

8 " 16.1 

9 " 12.2 

iO " 19.6 

12 " 23.1 

15 " and over... . 22.1 



For the same year the death rate per thousand strength, according to 
length of service, was determined to be : 

Less than one year of service 10.90 

One year of service 4.80 

First five years of service '.'.'.'. 4.54 

Second five years of service 5.22 

While the absolute number of men in the army of the United States 
during the year 1885 can scarcely be regarded as sufficiently large to 
warrant any exact deductions, it is certainly safe to assume that the proc- 
esses of elimination in our army are most active by far during the first 
twelve months of service ; after which the total losses fall below the gen- 
eral rate for the whole army, not to rise again until the more mature men 
of ten years' or longer service succumb to infirmity. 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



625 



Viry states that in the French service the annual losses by death and 
discharge for disability amount approximately to 40 per thousand during 
the first year of service, 30 per thousand during the second year with the 
colors and 20 during each of the subsequent years. According to Or- 
dronaux, statistics for the French army some years ago showed the follow- 
ing to be the average annual mortality : 



Service. Loss per 1,000. 

1 year 7.5 

2 years 6.5 

8 " 5.2 

4 " .4.3 



Service. Loss per 1,000. 

5 years 3.0 

6 " 2.0 

7 " .2.0 



In comparing the amount of sickness among French soldiers of one 
year of service with those of two or three, Viry found that in 1888 there 
were, per thousand of each class, 866 admissions among the former and 
432 among the latter; in 1889 the numbers were 859 and 483, and in 
1890 they were 826 and 559 respectively. 

The proportionate mortality in the German army for the year 1889-90, 
in respect to length of service, out of each 1,000 deaths, was as follows: 

Less than one year of service 432.0 

From one to two years' service '. 248.0 

From two to three years' service 143.8 

From three to four yeass' service 29.5 

Four years' service and upward 146.7 



Total 1,000.0 

In the discharges for disability in the German army for the same year, 
out of 8,740 men so discharged 78.3 per cent, owed their incapacity for 
service to causes existing prior to enlistment. Hence it is not surprising 
that the majority of men so discharged should have been less than one* 
year with the colors. The percentage of discharges according to length 
of service was as follows : 

First year 84.4 

Second year 8.6 

Third year 5.0 

Fourth year 2.0 

Under conditions of tropical service the raw and unseasoned recruits 
are proportionately even more prone to disease than is the case in temper- 
ate climates, as is well shown in the following rates for the British troops 
in India during the year 1897. 



Length of service In India. 


Average 
strength. 


Ad- 
missions. 


Deaths. 


In- 
validing. 


RATIOS PER 1,000 STRENGTH. 


Ad- 
missions. 


Deaths. 


In- 
validing. 


Under 1 year .... 


11,680 
11,580 
11,368 
10,099 
8,013 
8,874 
1,806 
1,111 


21,700 
18,795 
17,929 
14,866 
10,548 
11,728 
1,222 
36 


344 
217 
208 
124 
131 
151 
31 
8 


302 
423 
475 
446 
265 
288 
59 


1857.9 
1623.1 
1577.1 
1472.0 
1316.4 
1321.6 
676.6 
32.4 


29.45 
18.74 
18.30 
12.28 
16.35 
17.02 
17.17 
7.20 


25.86 

::<;:,:; 
41.78 
44.16 
33.07 
32.45 
32.67 


1 to 2 years 


2 " 3 " 


3" 4 tt 


4 " 5 a 


5 " 10 " 


.10 years and upward . 
Not stated 


Total 


64,531 


96,824 


1,214 


2,258 


1500.4 


18.81 


34.99 





40 



626 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Age as Influencing Sickness and Mortality. In the United 
States service, for the seven years 1890-1896 inclusive, the relation be- 
tween disease and age among the enlisted strength existed as follows : 



Age. 


AuNli-sinns ID 

hospital from 
cii-r;is<- per 
1,UUO strength. 


Constantly 
non-effective 
from disease 
per 
1,000 strength. 


Discharged for 
disability from 
disease, per 
1.000 strength. 


Deaths 
from disease 
per 
1,000 strength. 


Total losses 
from disease 
per 
1.000 strength. 


19 years and less. .. 
20 to 24 years 


2,244.79 
1,359.63 


60.73 
39.52 


22.61 
14.42 


5.32 
2.93 


27.95 
17.35 


25 " 29 " 


896.65 


26.06 


11.96 


3.13 


15.09 


30 " 34 " 


755.64 


21.53 


10.69 


3.73 


14.42 


35 " 39 " 


718.43 


21.32 


10.32 


4.32 


14.64 


40 " 44 " 


798.09 


24.87 


16.65 


7.46 


24.11 


45 - 49 " 
50 " 54 " 


755.01 

848.48 


24.16 
28.96 


15.26 
31.11 


10.97 
13.18 


26.23 
44.29 


55 " 59 " 


875.22 


34.93 


43.55 


16.75 


60.80 


60 years and over . . 


1,265.31 


72.91 


122.64 


66.04 


188.68 



To better emphasize the great wastage of lives and the loss of military 
efficiency which has resulted from our mistaken policy of enlisting im- 
mature recruits, the above figures are presented also in diagrammatic form ; 
no more forcible argument than which for the exclusion of the young and 
undeveloped from the military service could well be advanced. 




Admissions for disease only. 



Admissions for all causes. 



Fio. :). Diagram Showing the Influence of Age Upon Admissions to Sick Report in the United States 
Army, per 1000 of each Class, for the Seven Years 1890-1896. 

The younger men, both officers and soldiers, appear particularly sus- 
ceptible to disease as well as more prone to injury. For 1890-1896 noted 
above, typhoid fever was observed to be much more prevalent among those 
under 30 years of age. The rate for this disease in men from 20 to 24 
years of age was 10.31; from 25 to 29 years, 5.74; from 30 to 34 years, 
2.58. Enlisted men under 25 years of age suffered more from malarial 
fevers than did officers of the same age ; but with the advance of years the 
rates of the men came to differ but little from those of their superiors. The 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 627 

higher rates for venereal disease were given by men under 30 and particu- 
larly by those under 25 years of age ; but, on the other hand, the rates for 
alcoholism increased with age. Tuberculosis appeared to be equally dis- 
tributed among men between the ages of 20 and 50 years, but the excess 
of diarrhoeal troubles was confined to soldiers under 25 years. Rheumatic 
fever was not specially prevalent among young men, susceptibility being 
increased after the age of 40 or 50 years. The rates for pneumonia were 
considerably larger after 45 years of age as were also those for kidney 
disease. 

In the French army, for the decade 1875-1884, the average annual 
death rate for all causes, per 1,000 strength, as given by Marvaud, was: 

Under 20 years of age 6. 72 

From 20 to 22 years of age 10.92 

- 22 " 23 " " 9.88 

" 23 " 26 " " 8.59 

" 26 80 " " 7.14 

" 80 " 35 " " 8.51 

The class less than 20 years old is not only a very small one, amounting, 
according to Bertillon, to only about three per cent, of the whole, but the 
young men composing it are all volunteers and before enrolment are sub- 
jected to an exceptionally severe physical examination, so that only the 
best lives are accepted.- Hence, for the French army at large, the first year 
of service may be considered to begin at the age of 20-22 years. In com- 
menting on the excessive mortality of the younger soldiers, Marvaud says : 
" It is during the first year of service that the number of deaths attains its 
maximum, a fact which proves the dangers provoked by acclimation to a 
military life." 

The influence of age upon sickness, in time of war, is even more 
marked than during peace. According to Gayet, in the campaign of 
Benin the total losses by deaths and disease and from repatriation, among 
the French forces, were as follows: 

Foreign legion 9.7 per cent. 

Artillery of the marine 23.3 u 

Engineers 24.2 " 

Infantry of the marine 89.0 " 

African battalion 47.9 

In the two last classes the men were young and ill developed, ranging 
from 19 to 22 years of age; in the foreign legion the men were older, 
being between the ages of 25 and 35 years. 

Influence of Military Rank as Affecting Health. The report of 
the surgeon-general for 1897 gives statistics for our army to include the 
seven years 1890-1896; this being equivalent to a total strength for one 
year of 14,859 officers and 174,988 enlisted men. These figures show a 
sick rate of 765.69 per thousand for the officers and 1,258.90 for the men; 
but the inefficiency rate of the former class was much greater than that of 
the latter, being 44.27 per thousand as compared with 37.63 per thousand 
in the case of the enlisted force. The average death rate for officers was 
9.56 per thousand, while among the enlisted men the annual mortality was 
only 6.52 {>er thousand. Such an unfavorable showing made by the officers 
as regards the rates for death and inefficiency is largely to be explained by 
the fact that the military life of the enlisted soldier practically ceases at 



628 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

the age of 44 years, only 6.50 per cent, of this class remaining in service 
after that age ; while of the officers included in the tabulation referred to, 
37.25 per cent, were over 44 years of age. The latter class, then, while 
sharing largely with the enlisted men in the hygienic disadvantages of 
immaturity, had, in addition, the diseases of beginning old age and the 
results of long years of hard service to increase its death rate. It is to be 
noted that during this same period young officers under 25 years had only 
784.20 admissions per thousand for disease, where the soldiers of the same 
age had an admission rate of 1,359.63 ; while the non-efficiency rate of the 
former was 29.61, as compared with the rate of 39.52 for the latter. This 
would indicate that if the same attention was given to sanitary details by 
the young soldier as by the young officer, the rate of constant sickness 
of the former would be correspondingly reduced. 

The influence of petty rank and length of service with respect to sick- 
ness in the French army is shown in the subjoined table, constructed from 
data given by Marvaud covering the year 1888: 





ADMISSIONS PER 1,000 STRENGTH. 


Detention 'rooms. 


Hospitals. 


Non-commissioned officers . . .... 


Ill 
260 
567 


248 
172 
299 


Men having more than one vear of service 


Men having less than one year of service 





The proportionately large number of non-commissioned officers treated 
in hospital is explained by Marvaud as being due to lack of suitable ac- 
commodations in the detention rooms for this class. 

As illustrating the greater liability of officers to death in modern bat- 
tles, as compared with the mortality among the enlisted men, the official 
reports of the British army in the Anglo-Boer war, up to the time of the 
occupation of Pretoria, showed that for every officer who died of disease 
thirty-four soldiers died from the same cause, while for every officer who 
was killed in action or died from wounds/but nine men so lost their lives. 

Health of Troops during Peace. The individual significance of 
the several factors which, taken together, determine the sanitary condition 
of our army in time of peace will be readily appreciated by reference to the 
table on pages 630 and 631. Diarrhceal affections have the highest admis- 
sion rate for sickness, but the mortality from this cause is not great. Mal- 
arial diseased rank second in frequency, but, as shown by statistics, they 
are not of severe type and are readily amenable to treatment. Venereal 
diseases occupy third place in importance as regards admissions, but the 
constant non-efficiency through their influence is much greater than that 
from any other cause. Rheumatism and myalgia together furnish a large 
proportion of admissions and discharges, as does also bronchitis. The ad- 
missions for alcoholism are slightly above the general mean, but tjie rates 
for death and non-efficiency from this cause are small. All the rates for 
typhoid fever are low. As to injuries, the several figures for contusions 
and sprains are all large those for wounds, excluding gunshot injuries, be- 
ing considerably lower than those for contusions but still somewhat in ex- 
oeat of the general average. 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 629 

With regard to sickness, deaths and non-efficiency in the British ser- 
vice for the home stations (see pages 632 and 633), the fact which at once 
attracts attention is the high ratio given by venereal affections ; the ad- 
missions from this cause being more than half again as high as from any 
other affection or group of diseases. For gonorrhoea, primary and tertiary 
syphilis, the individual rates for non-efficiency are much higher than for 
such diseases as are summarized as affections of the respiratory and diges- 
tive systems. The rates for rheumatism and influenza are high, while dis- 
eases of the skin and of the connective tissue are common. Alcoholism 
is a minor factor in increasing the rates for sickness, deaths and non- 
efficiency. 

Decrease in Rates Under Conditions of Peace. That improve- 
ment in the sanitary administration and state of armies is constantly being 
made will be unhesitatingly admitted ; yet but few are aware of the stupen- 
dous progress in this respect which, particularly during the past generation, 
has been accomplished by military hygiene. Not only is this the case in 
our own service, but in foreign armies also, and, on reviewing the sanitary 
conditions which for their time were considered to be excellent, it is ap- 
parent that still further decrease in the several rates may justly be antici- 
pated for the future. For the United States army the following charts 
(see pages 635 and 636) so well illustrate the remarkable decrease in 
sickness and death which has occurred during the past three-score years 
that any extended discussion of the matter would seem to be superfluous. 
Suffice it to say that, in our service, the death rate for the five years preced- 
ing the Spanish-American war was about three and one-half times less than 
that for the five years preceding the war with Mexico, while the rate for 
sickness underwent a diminution of about two and one-third times during 
the period included by these dates. Since the year 1872 the death rate 
from all causes has dwindled to about forty per cent, of what it was at 
that time, while the death rate from sickness alone has fallen almost as 
much ; and during the same period the rate for admissions to sick report has 
diminished more than one-half. 

In the German army, according to official figures recently submitted 
to the Reichstag, the number of admissions to hospital from disease, per 
thousand strength, underwent a decrease from 1,496 in the year 1868 to 
867 in 1894. In 1868 the annual death rate per thousand was 6.9, 4.82 
in 1879, 3.24 in 1888, and only 2.60 in 1896 a magnificent result, in 
the attainment of which the due observance of sanitary detail, together 
with the careful selection of recruits, were main factors. Military epi- 
demics, in this showing of the German army, have above all lost ground. 
Smallpox is rare, and caused only two deaths during the twenty years 
1873-93. Dysentery was reduced from 6.8 per thousand strength in 
1874 to 0.39 in 1894. Typhoid fever gave a rate of sickness of 33.8 per 
thousand strength in 1868 and 2.4 per thousand in 1894. The typhoid 
death rate was 2.2 per thousand in 1868 and 0.81 per thousand in 1894. 
Malaria showed a rate of sickness of 27.6 in 1868 and 0.81 per thousand 
in 1894; while contagious eye inflammations fell from 7.0 to 1.5 per 
thousand. 



630 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



5 



Q 

- 

P 





2 

H 00 
00 

6 

O a 

Q 

e t 



u 

H 
H 

Q 



snojssjiu 
-PV 



2 S 3 8. : 2. 



co " co 



l/saajBq.) 



-PV 



J S 2 : S 



3 : 3 



SIIOISNIIII 

-PV 



3 2 S 



-uou 
XIIUBJSUO.') 



S ~ 



3 S 



i 8 8 8 



a: 

S o 



suoissjui 
-PV 



M 

I 



I 

o 

I 






i 1 i 



* -o 

B 3 

"S i 

> H 



S 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



y - 

a oo 



=? 8 S 



8 S 8 5? te $ if 



8 S ?} S S 8 



SlJog}'yss 
3} a - J$ <S5 o t- 



co 



a 8 
si si 



S 9 
7 

g "' " 



S 1 



to 



3:38 



S 3 



8. 3. : S : 3 : 



w Jo S 



S9829^|l889fi : 8 



S 8 



!?. i !? * 3 fc 5 U 8 3 



O S 



3 3 S 



So cS " 25 8 






^roeo^cojJriQ 
^^Hf-je^*-^co^3D 



< - 
rt S 



s -: s 3 



S S 



te SJ 



5 5 3 3 io 



8 8 S 



5 n 



28838383;*:: 

eo i ' ei * to e> 



fe SB 5j 



28$ 



r. - 
O to 



8 6 8 A 8 

g *i CO g CO 



S S S 



s ! 
I i 



is 



-o 



S I 



l 



I i f 

I | | 

ills 

'/ 8 fl 

f a a | 3 
O xj < O Q 



ot 
t 



t gu 
gun 



Efitllll 

a 5 o K V B 
<> 

332525333_ 



Inj 
all 



I ^ 



* fc 



? i f ! ! ! I 



f,32 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



_ 
- 
o 
c 

:- 
'- 

- 

O 

D 
Id 

g 

3 

I 
a 
X 

D 

- 

Q 

; 
/ 

c 
/ 
a 
: 


a 

- 
- 

X 

H 

- 

/. 

H 

9 

_- 
M 

< 
- 
- 

j 

5 


| 

Q 

5 

39 
H 

3 

M 
- 
00 

5 

- 

H 

/; 
O 

- 
- 
H 

if 

| 
- 
O 

_ 
- 

S 

o 

X 

O 
H 

- 

iK 

a 

- 

q 

- 

- 
- 



i 
| 

- 

7 
- 

9 


AVERAGE RATIOS FOR TEN YEARS. 


i 

S 

2s 
5 

JU 

i 

& 

*N 
1 

5 
c 

| 
1 



o 
9 
K 

og 

< 

1 

M 
O 

et 

M 
l- 


3IOJS 

XIJUBJS 
-aoj 


S35SSS g :?5SiSS3 


5 i 


c us co 


A[|'!H|I 
fipllBAU] 


:::::: 3:8:Sofc 


S 


* 


'sq^BaQ 


:SSS^S 8:SS:8: 


: d . ... 


8UO|SS]U1 

-PV 


co -- i- co -H co oo oo et o> 


CM CO 


2 -- : - 8 8 8 8 


pj 
M 

ft. 

O 
H 



Xnatrjs 
-uoo 


:S282S 3 :885c?il 


8 S 


o ** co 


-RIP 


:::::: S:S:5:3 


CO 


' ' ' 


,. 


:2:3SS S:8S3:8 


: S 


: o" : 


SUOJSSJUI 

-PV 


o ~-* >c cs i^- iff <n ^o M* co w 


O CO 


: = : - S 8 


J" .I.M| illllll 


cc >ft - t O5 ift ?5 - 53 w -^ < jo 

4> Cz co ' m o .c^SOS^^Hoi r* 


?i-woco * cs co Q t? ^ ^ 


.H| I Illn.lJ 


! ! ! ! ! j !" {- !! :l ; 


DKATHS. 


W ox 


o .^.^^^^ ^4 -wco^ -co ^^ 


juam 
-p*aa aqj 
uioj; 








juani 
-j&u aqi 






. s . . a 




01 u l8S|UIpy 


i. "*" S S - 'SSS 000 * 

: 5 rf *f 


5 <M' 


DISEASES. 


1 ::::::::::: 


Gonorrhcf.' 1 
Hydrophobia\. . . . 
Parasitic disease^.. 


S ' -a ' * * 1 & Jl 


fj S **|s'E 
8-3aB bS^is 01 * 

I I] if |lf | j I 1 |{ 

aaoSOWoSQ>>5Eafec-'aQt 




MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



s a s. s 

' oi 


S 8 8 g 8 8 3 E 8 3 S ; S 

' W 04 M 04 


S | S 2 


3 


8 3 8 2 


3 M9^qi(S1 


S R || 


-I 


8 8 S 3 


M:4S4^^ ! 


mi fl | 


S 


N j( I- O 


ci ~ -A r: ri i - v. ?i SI CB O W 


* U5 ^H 11 

8 


cs 


---*/ 

8 S j 


s a ? s s ffi s 2 s s. a. g. g 


8 ^ S 2 


s 




* - - *l 


"*" 


to 


n 58 * 

d cs - 


658ls5Sff88S8aS8a 


8 2J 8 : 


te 




- N 


- 


a 


: 8 fe : S 


r* o o ?5 cr ^-* T" o O O 


?^ fe 8 


^< 








CO 


. 00 


ujeso^oso-wOJ-eocs-. 


o - 


w 


. .. g o 


-s*2?a:*-oja55S 


a 


i 


8 ?? S 1-1 S 


888S8ts888aS8i! 


S S S 2 


:- 


10 3 S 


S82sl3fjgS-2yis| 


s 


1 


i i 88 * 


SS * SSRS3 ,: S g- 8 


NO N 


! 


:* :* 


. rt *f$ *-* ^^ 


68 : 


i 
















et 


: " - ': a 


U* 1 :* 1 ?;^^ :--- : 


: SS? : 


S 


BBSS 

^ 


i a |g|||IS|||| 


1 ' 


S 




ii-liilllltlll 

|U i j i i i i- H .i : i 

I g ::::::::::: 


:;;:; 

| M i ! il 

I ::::: 




i 


| i i j M i r N M 


| : : : | 3 

i i i i I 1 




i 1 1 1 | S 


1 Mijiiitj 

- It-t^of.*)-* 

i i i 1 i i f * f 

I rl 1 t t i 1 1 i 1 1 

* 8% 2 w -5* t t C t ^ 

RHOOHn9pooe8 


"3 \ 
| 1 

g S & 
1111*1 

8 g O O - 


General total 



634 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 
DECREASE OP RATES FOK THE GERMAN ARMY. 



Yeer. 


Morbidity per 1,000. 


Mortality per 1,000. 


Invalided per 1,000. 


1H79-80 


1,174.8 


4.82 




1880-81 


1,136.2 


4.82 




1881-82 


1,185.5 


4.53 




1882-83 


849.6 


4.25 


20.6 


18S3-84 


830.1 


4.16 


20.7 


1884-8/5 . 


850.3 


3.93 


20.4 


1885-86 .... 


849.2 


3.73 


23.9 


1886-87 


808.0 


3.79 


20.6 


1887-88 


804.1 


3.24 


21.5 


1888-89 


758.9 


3.19 


19.6 


1889-90 . 


897.2 


3.30 


25.9 











According to Boisseau, the mortality of the British army on the home 
station prior to 1853 was 17.5 per thousand strength. After the improve- 
ment in the sanitary surroundings of the soldier in that service following 
the Crimean war, the rates for death and sickness were much diminished, 
and for the decade 1875-84 had fallen to 7.20 deaths per thousand 
strength. In 1889 the death rate was 4.57 and the sickness 730.4. In 
1890 the deaths rose to 5.53 and the sick rate to 810. .For the decade 
1887-96 the admissions were 735.9 and the ratio of deaths per thousand 
strength was 4.68. In 1897 there died only 3.42 per thousand of 
strength, while the admission rate had fallen to 640.6 per thousand 
strength. 

The reduction in the rates of sickness and death in the Italian army 
during the past twenty-five years has been steadily progressive and prob- 
ably presents less fluctuation than is the case in any other military service. 



Year. 


Admissions to 
hospital or infirmary 
per 1,000. 


Death rate 
per 1,000. 


Year. 


Admissions to 
hospital or infirmary 
per 1,000. 


Death rate 
per 1,000. 


1875.. 


1,031 


13.3 


1887 


760 


8 7 


1876 


1,001 


11.2 


1888 ^. 


732 - 


8 7 


1877 


987 


106 


1889 


749 


8 


1878 


947 


106 


1890 


796 


7 5 


1879 


936 


9 9 


1891 


811 





1880 


935 


11 


1892 


758 


7 1 


1881 


928 


10.6 


1893 


735 


(I 6 


1882 


833 


10.2 


1894 


723 


5 2 


1883 


842 


11.8 


1895 


743 


7 


1884 .". 


779 


11 6 


1896 


74.1 


50 


1885 


791 


10.3 


1897 


694 


4 2 


1886 


798 


9 3 





















Viry gives the following rates for mortality in the French army as 
illustrating the better observance of the rules of military hygiene. 



Period. 


Mortality 
per 1,000 strength. 


Period. 


Mortality 
per 1,000 strength. 


1812 . . 


27.9 


1878-81 


9 A 


1820-25 . 


21.4 


1883 


81 


1846 .... 


19. 


1889 


r OQ 


1846-58 .. 


16. 


1890 


5.81 


loCs-72 


13. 







MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 




Fio. 321. Chart Showing Reduction in Death Rate, per Thousand Strength, in the United States Army, un- 
der Conditions of Peace, for the Period 1H44HXSI8. 
Death rate from all causes wath rate from disease alone 

Dewey states that in the French service the average annual death rate 
was 8.43 per thousand strength for the seven years 1880-86, and that 
it sank to a yearly average of 6.63 for the seven succeeding years. This 
decreased death rate is naturally consequent to a lessened amount of sick- 
ness, as the following figures from Marvaud illustrate : 



636 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Period. 


1862-65. 


1866-69. 


1884-87. 


Admissions to hospital per 1,000 strength (admissions 
to infirmaries and cases treated in quarters not 
included) 


264.5 


259.5 


177.0 


Hate of constant non-effectives per 1,000 strength . . . 


23.3 


22.1 


14.0 






s 8 



,, 






i* 

i 

< 



1 

< 



s 



.a 

= g 

IS 

si 

fa 



.ace 



c 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



637 



Lindley, writing in 1892, states that during the preceding forty years 
the death rates in the Prussian and Belgian armies had shrunk to two- 
fifths, the English and Russian rates had fallen to one-half, and the French 
rate had diminished to one-third. These figures may prol>ably be accepted 
as being approximately correct. 

The lamentable conditions revealed by the above statistics as existing 
until even within the present generation, in the armies of all nations, 
were undoubtedly largely due to ignorance of first causes of disease, by 
which measures for its prevention could not be intelligently applied, as 
well as to an insufficient knowledge of hygiene and lack of appreciation as 
to its value from a military standpoint. An additional factor of no mean 
importance, however, was to be found in the former anomalous and in- 
ferior condition of the medical officer, his lack of authority to recommend 
in 'sanitary matters and his powerlessness to control or remedy existing 
conditions. It was long held that his duties were merely to care for the 
sick and wounded, and any recommendations bearing on the general care 
or management of the men were deemed intrusive and as such usually dis- 
regarded and resented. The comparatively recent conferring of advisory 
powers upon the medical officer for sanitary purposes has undoubtedly been 
a potent factor in the gradual l)etterment of the sanitary condition, and 
hence efficiency, of tlie soldier; and when the former is invested with ac- 
tual authority upon all matters bearing upon the health of troops, with ex- 
ecutive powers as well as advisory privileges, a still further improvement 
in this direction may be expected. 

Although during the past one or two generations a marked diminution 
has occurred in the sickness, mortality and non-efficiency among the troops 
of the United States and those of European nations upon the home sta- 
tions, the same unfortunately cannot be said with regard to white troops 
doing colonial duty in tropical climates. For such troops these rates 
continue to be high, and no great improvement in their sanitary state, as 
evidenced by statistics, appears to have resulted for many years. Since 
the hygienic requirements for each military establishment, wherever its 
troops may be stationed, must be accepted as being the same for all cir- 
cumstances, the conclusion is obvious that climatic conditions in the 
tropics furnish a potent obstacle against a constant reduction in rates pro- 
portionate to that which has occurred on the home stations. While un- 
doubtedly much has been done during the past generation to render mili- 
tary service in hot countries less inimical to life and health, the fact 
none the less remains that sanitary progress in the low latitudes has fallen 
far short of that obtaining in more temperate climates. It is evident that 
figures illustrating this point are best furnished by the records of the Brit- 
ish service, and these are briefly compared as follows: 





Period. 


Admissions 
to hospital 
per 1,000. 


Deaths 
per 1,(XIO. 


Days lost per 

limn. 


West Indies 


Decade 1875-84 


885.0 


15.86 


16.26 




Decade 1886-95 

Year 1896 


1,115.7 
1,190.2 


9.23 
6.19 


22.67 
28.69 




Decade 1875-84 .... 


1,085.4 


14.51 


20.97 




Decade 1886-95 
Year 1896 


1,004.1 
1,821.1 


11.38 

8.23 


21.10 
28.76 













638 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 





Period. 


Admissions 
to hospital 
per 1,000. 


Deaths 
per 1,000. 


Days lost per 

ii in ii. 


( h iii;i 


Decade 1875-84 . 


1,030.4 


10.53 


18.07 




Decade 1886-95 .... 
Year 1896 


1,256.0 
1,856.5 


11.44 

7.48 


22.41 
32.05 


Inditi . 


Decade 1875-84 


1,482.9 


17.43 


23.06 




Decade 1886-95 .... 
Year 1896 


1,453.5 
1,386.7 


15.52 
15.29 


30.26 
34.35 


Egypt and Cyprus 


Decade 1875-84 


No 


figures ei 


ven. 




Decade 1886-95 
Year 1896 


1,069.7 
822.3 


16.30 
13.28 


24.56 
23.11 


Straits Settlements 


Decade 1875-84 


No 


figures gi 


ven. 




Decade 1886-95 
Year 1896 , 


1,079.4 
1,074.7 


7.27 
8.88 


25.58 
26.46 













From these figures it is evident that while there was a considerable 
diminution in the morbidity and mortality rates for the West Indies and 
Ceylon during the past twenty years, but little improvement has occurred 
in the general rate for China, Egypt .and Cyprus. In India, a country 
long occupied by a large military force of Europeans and one in which the 
greatest improvement might reasonably be expected to have occurred, the 
rates are practically what they were two decades ago the death rate of 
British troops at home having fallen from 7.20 to 3.58 per thousand, while 
the mortality for India fell only from 17.43 to 15.29 during the same period. 
Further, the several rates for the Straits Settlements have actually in- 
creased during the past ten years. 

In this respect the experience of Great Britain is duplicated by that of 
the French service, in which in 1862 the mortality for troops throughout 
France was 9.42 and for those in Algeria 12.21 per thousand; while in 
1890 the death rate for troops at home was 5.81 and for those in Algeria 
11.94 per thousand. 

War as Affecting the Health of Armies. The rates of sickness 
and death for troops during campaign, independent of the circumstances 
which accompany conflict, are chiefly influenced by the sanitary standards 
maintained, and, as already stated, it is difficult to cite campaigns in 
which the death rate from sickness has not been greater than that from 
casualty. 

The diseases observed during continued warfare, according to Laveran, 
are largely brought about by four chief influences: atmospheric, exhale. - 
tions from the soil, evil condition of the latrines and poor food. The 
atmospheric exposure to which the soldier is often subjected is one of the 
greatest hardships of a campaign. Sleeping on the bare ground and often 
drenched with rain, standing in trenches exposed to snow and cold, or 
making long marches under a tropical sun, are a few of the influences by 
which he is debilitated and his constitution impaired. Service in a 
malarious country is notoriously productive of disease, while ill policed 
sinks are potent factors in the occurrence of typhoid and dysentery. * The 
influence of insufficient or improper food in lowering the resisting powers 
of the soldier is well recognized. Excessive fatigue and moral influences 
also play an important part in determining the sick rate, it being well 
established that victorious forces have less sickness than armies which 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



639 



have been beaten and demorali/ed. The endemic and epidemic diseases 
of an occupied country, together with the influence of a change of climate, 



* 
II 

ct 


0> 



























ID 


t 

m 
ft 


CI 


FIO. 333. A Comparison of the Annual Mortality Rates Caused by Certain Diseases In Various Groups of Men of the Military Age. 
United States civilians < """" United States army before the Civil War i : ^ 3 


(Adapted from the " Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion. ) 


00 
<0 


1- 


























p= 


=F 


00 
K 

(0 

* 




















































































































































































































































































r 






































































































- 4- 
















1. 










- 


-4 




I: 










t - 










" 










I 




i 






























I 




" i -s 












. Jl_ 






















1 " 






1 






- - I 










in 






; 


i 




i 




1 


JlL 




I _ . 












i n 




1 


CONTINUED FEVERS 


MALARIAL FEVERS 


DIARRHOEA AND 
DYSENTERY 


ERUPTIVE FEVERS 


DISEASES OF THE. 
RESPIRATORY ORGANS 


DISEASES OF THE 
NERVOUS SYSTEM 


DISEASES OF THE 
CIRCULATORY ORGANS 


DISEASES OF THI 
DIGESTIVE ORGANS 


CONSUMPTION 


RHEUMATISM 


SCURVY 













aggravate also to a considerable degree the sickness and mortality of an 
expeditionary corps. 

For our own service the influence of hostilities upon mortality from 



640 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

disease is well illustrated in the preceding chart, showing, as it does, 
the rates for certain affections in the United States army, during the Civil 
War, for periods before and subsequent to that war, and also as compared 
with the death rates for the corresponding class in civil life. As com- 
pared with the mortality from continued fevers which affections may be 
considered, in the light of present knowledge, as chiefly of typhoid nature- 
war brought about an increase of tenfold. Malarial diseases were doubled 
and diarrhoea and dysentery tripled. Deaths from eruptive fevers became 
about twenty-two times as frequent as they were before the war, while 
those from* diseases of the respiratory organs were more than^ quadrupled. 
Camp life appeared to have little influence in affecting the mortality from 
nervous affections. Deaths from diseases of the circulatory and digestive 
organs were practically doubled in frequency, as was also the mortality 
from consumption. Eheumatism, as regards a fatal termination, and con- 
trary to expectation, was not increased ; but scurvy the former bane of 
armies in the field was doubled. The average annual death rates from 
disease during the entire war was 53.48 per thousand strength among 
white troops, while it was 18.98 for these troops during the eighteen 
years before the war, excluding the two years of hostilities against Mexico, 
and only barely over 6 per thousand for the decade subsequent to -the war. 
The following table shows the influence of the war with Spain upon 
the rates for sickness and death, as regards the prevalence of certain 
classes of diseases: 

TABLE GIVING FIGURES FOR THE COMPARISON OF THE YEAR OF PEACE, 1897, WITH 
" THE YEAR OF WAR, 1898. UNITED STATES ARMY. 







CONSTANTLY 




DISCHARGES 






ADMISSIONS 

PER 1,000 


NON- 
EFFECTIVE 


DEATHS 

PER 1,000 


POR 

DISABILITY 


LOSSES PER 


Group. 


STRENGTH. 


PER 1,000 

STRENGTH. 


STRENGTH. 


PER 1,000 

STRENGTH. 


STRENGTH. 




1897. 


1898. 


1897. 


1898. 


1897. 


1898. 


1897. 


1898. 


1897. 


18JW. 


Infectious diseases, general and 






















local 


336.10 


1,034.97 


12.59 


57.90 


1.35 


15.99 


1.28 


2.14 


2.63 


18.13 


Diseases of nutrition 


2.05 


3.49 


.19 


.21 




.09 


.29 


.13 


.29 


.22 


Diseases of the nervous system 


56.94 


52.81 


1.63 


1.33 


.33 


.92 


1.79 


.86 


2.12 


1.78 


Diseases of the digestive system. . . 


244.05 


505.71 


3.75 


7.01 


.55 


3.11 


.55 


.58 


1.10 


3.69 


Diseases of the circulatory system . 
Diseases of the respiratory system . 


4.68 
77.74 


6.73 
144.50 


.41 
1.64 


.60 
2.04 


.37 
33, 


.49 
.98 


.95 
.40 


.96 
.26 


1.32 
.62 


1.45 

1.22 


Diseases of the genito-urinary sys- 






















tem 


9.76 


11.77 


.80 


.67 


22 


.24 


.44 


.43 


.66 


.67 


Diseases of the lymphatic system 






















and ductless glands 


2.36 


3.22 


17 


.17 


04 






.02 


.04 


.02 


Diseases of the muscles, bones and 






















joints 


7252 


7734 


285 


270 






31 


1.33 


L31 


133 


Diseases of the integument and 






















subcutaneous connective tissues. 


72.55 


60.57 


1.70 


1.06 




.:> 




.04 




.34 


Diseases of the organs of special 






















sense 


24.47 


1739 


92 


79 


04 




.58 


62 


.62 


.62 


Unclassified 


244 


19 17 


09 


59 


04 






02 


04 


02 


Total for diseases 






















; :,:; 


1 93774 


26 73 


ti'i \t.\ 


3 14 


24 94 


760 


7 40 


1074 


3234 


Total for injuries 






















HOOB 


-v.'.^i 


9.12 


13.74 


1.97 


8.41 


2.01 


4.18 


3.98 


12.59 


Total for all causes 


l.lSti.til 


2,146.94 


35.85 


82.83 


5.11 


33.35 


9.61 


11.58 


14.72 


44.93 





As showing the effect of campaign on sick rates the British Afghanis- 
tan expedition, in 1879, furnishes a good example. The rates per thou- 
sand for 1878, the year preceding the war, and the two years of the war, 
are as follows : 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



641 



Year. 


Admission* for (Unease 
per 1,<JUO strength. 


Deaths from disease 
per 1,000 strength. 


1878.. 


840.1 


2.82 


1879 


1815.5 


74.68 


1880 


1107.1 


80.64 









All things being considered, it is safe to assume that the outbreak of 
hostilities will be followed by a vast increase in the death rate from dis- 
ease, probably from six to twelve or more times that normally occurring 
in peace; the proportion 
naturally varying with 
the character of the 
campaign, the climatic 
conditions to be en- 
countered, the local dis- 
eases to be undergone, 
the efficiency of the 
commissary and trans- 
portation departments, 
the employment of sea- 
soned or unseasoned 
troops and many other 
factors. The rate of 
admissions to sick re- 
port from disease in 
time of war is not, how- 
ever, increased propor- 
tionately to the death 
rate a fact sufficiently 
proving the more serious 
nature of the diseases 
affecting troops in the 
field. As to the rate 
for non-efficiency, this is largely dependent upon the ratio for admissions, 
and naturally bears in its fluctuations a close relationship to the prevalence 
and character of disease. If the records of the Spanish-American war be 
accepted as typical in this respect, no great difference in the rates for dis- 
charge by reason of disability, in peace or war, may be anticipated. 

In comparing the results of the Spanish-American war with the cor- 
responding period of the Civil War the advantage is much in favor of the 
former, although the progress of disease, by months, is quite dissimilar. 
It is particularly noticeable that not only was the death rate during the 
war with Spain reduced by 43.9 per cent, as compared with the struggle 
of the previous generation, but the amount of epidemic typhoid, largely 
resulting from the inexperience of the volunteer troops, rapidly decreased 
as a result of scientific sanitary measures enforced as soon as the magni- 
tude of the typhoid outbreak was fully understood. 
41 




FlO. 334. Mortality from all Diseases and from Typhoid Fever dur- 
ing the War with Spain and during the Corresponding Period of 
the Civil War. (After Sternberg.) 



042 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DEATH RATES PER 1,000, FROM DISEASE, DURING THE 
FIRST YEAR OF THE CIVIL WAK AND THE WAR WITH SPAIN. 







1861-62. 






1888-99. 




Months. 


Mr;m 

strength. 


Number 
of deaths. 


Ratio per 
1.000 of M.S. 


Ratio per 
1,000 of M.S. 


Number 
of deaths. 


Mean 
strength. 


Mav 


16,161 


18 


1.11 


0.26 


42 


163,726 


June 


66,950 


55 


.82 


.44 


90 


202,526 


July 


71,125 


106 


1.49 


1.72 


451 


362,613 


August 


112,359 


242 


2.15 


5.21 


1,400 


268,507 


September 
October 


165,126 
256,884 


365 
725 


2.21 

2.82 


5.89 
3.17 


1,541 
809 


261,824 
255,000 


November 


301,848 


1,145 


3.79 


1.51 


365 


242,000 


December 


343,184 


1,471 


4.29 


.84 


201 


240,000 


January 


352,760 


1,593 


4.52 


.85 


180 


211,000 


February 


327,734 


1,346 


4.11 


.87 


156 


180,000 


March ... ... 


328,878 


1,575 


4.79 


.90 


123 


136,000 


Vpril 


410,416 


1,881 


4.58 


.71 


80 


113,000 


Annual 


229,452 


10,522 


45.86 


25.73 


5,438 


211,350 

















As already intimated, so many factors combine to determine mortality 
from sickness in campaign that any attempt at the close comparison in 
this respect of different wars carried on under entirely different condi- 
tions can yield only misleading results. General deductions can of 
course be drawn, and hence the following figures may be of advantage as 
well as interest : 

DEATHS FROM DISEASE DURING CERTAIN WARS OF THE PRESENT CENTURY. 

(After Bradford.) 



Name of War. 


Nation. 


Year or period. 


Mortality from 
disease per 1,000 
strength. 


Walcheren expedition ... 


Great Britain 


1809 


346.9 


West Coast of Africa 


Great Britain 


1824 


690.0 


Mexican 


United States 


1846-48 


100.0 


Crimean 


Great Britain 


1854 


230.0 


Chinese '. 


France 


1862 


118.0 


Civil War 


United States 


1862 


40.0 


Civil War 


United States 


1863 


60.0 


Franco-Prussian 


Germany 


1870-71 


18.6 


Afghanistan 


Great Britain 


1878-80 


93.7 


Soudan 


France 


1888-89 


280.0 


Madagascar 


France 


1895 


300.0 


Chino-Japanese 


Japan 


1895 


14.8 


Spanish -American .... .... 


United States. 


1898 


25.0 











With regard to the results of campaigning under tropical conditions, 
the most satisfactory data are naturally furnished by the two great colo- 
nizing powers, Great Britain and France. The figures given for these ser- 
vices are so widely dissimilar, however, as to furnish no foundation for 
any general conclusions based upon them both. For purposes of compari- 
son merely, they are certainly valuable the -French having little reason 
to be proud of their sanitary showing, as evidenced in the following 
table. 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



TABLK OK MOHTAI.ITY KKO.M DISKASK IN MOHK RKCKNT CAMPAIGNS IN TROPICAL 
SHOWING KATK OK DKATH PKII 1,000 STKKNOTH. ^After Bradford.) 



British Expeditions. 


French Expeditions. 


Soudan 


ISSJI 

1876 

1 vs.', 

1885-86 
1860 
1895-96 
1882 
1867-68 
1877-78 
1860 
1896 
1874 
1879 
1895 
1884-85 
1896 
1878-80 


0.6 

2.0 
2.2 
4.1 
5.4 
5.6 
5.7 
12.1 
14.0 
14.9 
16.5 
17.4 
24.8 
25.1 
26.4 
46.6 
93.7 


Tonkin 


1884 
1881 
1862-63 
1885 
1893 
1886 
1887 
1863 
1887-88 
1862 
1862 
1888 
1885-86 
1886-87 
1887-88 
1888-89 
1895 


60.0 
61.0 
71.0 
79.0 
87.0 
99.0 
106.0 
107.0 
116.0 
117.0 
118.0 
133.0 
200.0 
220.0 
225.0 
280.0 
300.0 


Mashonaland 


Tunis 


Suakim 


Mexico 


Soudan 


Tonkin 


China (Talieu-\van) 


Dahomey 


Ashanti 


Tonkin 


Egypt. . 


Tonkin 


Abyssinia 


Cochin-China 


Galeika Gaika 


Soudan 


China Field Force 


Cochin-China 


Matabel eland 


China 


Ashanti 


Tonkin 


/i i 1 u la 1 11 1 


Soudan 


Chitral 


Soudan 


Nile 


Soudan 


Dongola 


Soudan 


Afghanistan 


Madagascar 







The casualties of the recent French expedition in Madagascar are thus 
given by Gayet: * 

Killed by t he enemy 7 

Wounded 94 

Deaths from sickness 5,600 

Sick, more than 15,000, or 85 per cent, of the whole force. 

From the table given above it will l>e observed that with the exception 
of the Afghanistan campaign, in which the high mortality was largely the 
result of an outbreak of cholera, the most uuhealthful of seventeen English 
expeditions in warm climates had a lower death rate than the healthiest of 
an equal number of French cami>aigns under presumably similar conditions 
of temperature. The British expedition against the Ashantis in 1874 
certainly demonstrated the efficiency of military hygiene under the most 
uuhealthful conditions ; and, in the excellent results obtained, the second 
expedition against this same tribe, in 1896, far surpassed the first. As 
compared with the French Madagascar expedition, the mortality rate in the 
second Ashauti expedition was only about one fifty-third of the losses of the 
French under probably no more uuhealthful conditions. In our own expedi- 
tion against Manila, during the war with Spain, the results were admirable, 
only 8 per thousand dying from disease. During the Cuban insurrection 
the Spanish are reported, for the year 1897, to have had a death rate of 
36 per thousand from all causes. The admissions to hospital for the same 
period were 1,900 per thousand, of which 420 per thousand were for mal- 
aria. During 1897 the Spanish troops appeared to have suffered but little 
from yellow fever ; this being probably due to an immunity to this disease 
acquired through previous visitations. That constant exposure to infec- 
tious disease of all kinds, and not only yellow fever, does actually exert a 
seasoning influence on the survivors and reduce their mortality is well 
known. As illustrating this point, it may be noted that the sick rate of 
the colored troops during the Civil War fell from 4,092 per thousand during 
the first year of their service to 2,797 in the last, while their death rate 



644 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

dropped from 211 to 94 per thousand strength. The total rates for sick- 
ness of all troops during the Civil War underwent considerable diminution, 
as follows : 

First year, admissions per 1,000 strength 2,983 

Second year, admissions per 1,000 strength 2,696 

Third year, admissions per 1,000 strength 2,210 

In this connection the chart already given in connection with the influ- 
ence of race as affecting the prevalence of disease is of interest. 

It is not, however, during active wars or on expeditions that the highest 
mortality is observed among troops in the field. When an army is con- 
demned to inaction through a siege, for purposes of mobilization, or even 
in cantonments after a laborious expedition, sickness rages with greater 
violence. The typhus that tried the Crimean army occurred in the win- 
ter after the capture of Sebastopol and after conclusion of the armistice; 
and examples might be indefinitely multiplied in our own service to show 
that the stationary force during war is an unhealthy force. In January, 
1862, the medical director of the Army of the West, then in winter quar- 
ters, reported 13.5 per cent, of the total strength as being excused from 
duty by reason of sickness. In August, 1861, of some troops encamped on 
the Arlington flats on the Potomac, 33 per cent, were reported as sick with 
diarrhoea and malarial fever. During the war with Spain the typhoid epi- 
demics, as is well known, occurred in the larger fixed camps. An excel- 
lent illustration of this point is found in the condition of the French troops 
during the Crimean War, a struggle from which so many sanitary lessons 
have been drawn. According to Eawlinson, estimates as to the sickness 
among these troops, for the winter of 1854-55, were as follows: 



Month. 


Strength. 


Sick in Hospital. 


October ... 


46 000 


3,200 


November. ... 


55000 


5,000 


December 


65,000 


(i.(HM) 


January , 


75,000 


9,000 


February 


88,000 


8,000 









These figures do not include the sick treated in the regimental infirmaries 
or in the hospitals at Constantinople. 

Comparison of Military Medical Statistics. It is a matter of 
the greatest difficulty, if not indeed impossible, to compare the sanitary 
conditions of various armies with accuracy, since their statistical tables are 
often differently constructed, the physical requirements for recruits are not 
identical and diverse regulations as to discharge for disability prevail. 

In attemping to institute such comparisons it is well to appreciate at 
the outset that a sick rate can be kept low by excluding the doubtful or 
milder cases from the benefits of quarters or hospital, and so preventing 
them from appearing on the official records ; that the sick rates, mortality 
and constant non-efficiency can be held down by a searching system of 
discharge for disability, and that the total loss as shown by the sum of 
the rates for death and discharge. is, in determining the sanitary state of 
an army, of much more importance than either of its complementary fac- 
tors. 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 645 

In comparing the rates of our service with those of foreign armies, the 
admission rate is the one which, by its magnitude, attracts attention. 
This higher rate of admissions, however, does not in itself imply a greater 
prevalence of disease among the troops of the United States ; since with 
us, in contradiction to the practice in other armies, the soldier is officially 
taken on sick report whenever he is excused by the medical officer from 
any part of his duty, whatever be the cause. When it is observed, as was 
the case in the year 1888, that 796.89 admissions per thousand strength 
from the Italian army resulted in a death rate of 9.31, while 1,270.73 
admissions for each thousand United States soldiers for the same j>eriod 
divided into 621.61 cases admitted into hospital and 649.12 treated in 
quarters had a mortality of only 8.15 per thousand, it is evident that 
the admissions in the two instances , the rates for discharge for disability 
not varying greatly, do not constitute facts of equal gravity and are there- 
fore not available for comparison. 

The rate for constant non-efficiency is obviously largely dependent upon 
the admission rate and that of discharge for disability, and reflects, to a 
considerable degree, their variations. Taken by itself the rate is mislead- 
ing, and it acquires a certain value only when considered in connection 
witli other rates, particularly that for admissions. As between services, for 
the reasons already given, it is evident that non-efficiency rates are not 
susceptible of proper comparison. 

A consideration of the death rate alone, as a means of comparison be- 
tween several armies, is wholly unreliable and merely productive of error; 
since, as above stated, it can be markedly reduced by the removal from the 
service of those affected with or predisposed to disease. 

Of all the ratios which go to determine the healthfulness of an army, 
as shown by statistics, that giving the discharge for disability is of the 
greatest importance. In its relation to military morbidity it is at once 
evident that the admissions to hospital will l>e largely furnished by the 
physically less sound, and that a prompt and proportionate diminution in 
the sick rate must follow the elimination of these weaklings by their dis- 
charge from the service. Further, the number of men withdrawn from the 
aggregate strength of the command the rate of non-effectiveness from 
disease or injury is not a factor of equal importance in all armies and can- 
not be justly used for purposes of comparison. It undoubtedly embodies 
the number of admissions and the gravity of the cases so admitted ; but it 
is obvious that the constant non-efficiency as well as the admission rate 
varies inversely with the rigor of the system of discharge. As to mortal- 
ity, this also depends npoii the physical standard maintained, and, as shown 
in the German army, a low death rate is naturally consequent to the early 
elimination of those soldiers who are predisposed to or actually affected 
with disease. Hence the rate of discharge for disability is the controlling 
factor in determining the value of the rates of admissions, deaths and con- 
stant non-efficiency ; while it is itself largely dependent upon the physical 
standards to which the recruit, before enlistment, is required to conform. 
To institute accurate comparisons, therefore, a constant, unvarying stand- 
ard for discharge for disability should obtain in the several military forces 
to be compared ; and such a constant standard does not and practically 
cannot exist. Requirements as to discharge for disability necessarily 



646 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

vary with the custpms of each military service, aud, to a certain degree, 
with the personal equation of each medical officer. As an instance of the 
former, it may be noted that the Germans are especially assiduous in 
promptly removing the tuberculous from their armies, while we, on the 
other hand, maintain a sanitarium for soldiers affected with this disease; 
and this single source of error, to which might be added many other less 
aggravated instances, prevents a comparison of the sickness, mortality and 
non-efficiency upon anything like equal premises. If it be admitted, how- 
ever, that the physical requirements for the recruits of various armies are 
approximately the same, the total losses, irrespective of either non-effi- 
ciency or admission rate, should afford a somewhat inaccurate but still the 
most available and satisfactory method of determining the comparative 
health and physical efficiency of various military services. 

The following figures, taken from Marvaud, show the annual sick rates, 
mortality, loss by discharge and total losses in various European armies 
for a period about twelve or fifteen years ago : 



Name. 


Year 
or period. 


Admissions to 
hospital or 
inflrmary per 
1,000 strength. 


Death rate 
per 1,000 
strength. 


Discharges 
for disability 
per 1,000 
strength. 


Total losses 
per 1,000 
strength. 


Belgium 


1887-88 


338* 


3.9 


17.0 


20.9 


Austria 


1887 


995 f 


6.9 


15.01 


21.9 


Great Britain (home stations). 
France (home stations) . 


1884-85 
1888 


877 
500 


5.2 
6.1 


20.0 
21.0 


25.2 
27.1 


Germany 


1883-84 


849 


3.9 


29.0 


32.9 


Italy 


1887 


760 


8.7 


28.0 


36.7 


Russia 


1880-84 


845 


8.9 


31.3 


40.2 


Spain 


1886 




13.5 


30.8 


44.3 















* General hospitals only. f Including detention in barracks. 
J Not including temporary invalids. 

j 

During the year 1888 the total admissions per thousand strength in 
the United States army amounted to 1,270.73, the deaths were 8.15 per 
thousand, the constant non-effectives were 41.91 per thousand, the dis- 
charges for disability 27.75 per thousand. These figures give a total 
annual loss of 35.90 thus making our sanitary showing for that time 
inferior to that of the above-named nations except Italy, Eussia and 
Spain; all countries notoriously less advanced in matters pertaining to 
hygiene. It can, however, scarcely be believed that our men, under equal 
conditions of selection, broke down nearly twice as readily as the Belgian 
or Austrian soldiers and half again as rapidly as thfe British soldiers, and 
hence the conclusion would seem to be inevitable from the above figures 
that our troops were at that time examined on enlistment with a laxity as 
to their physical condition which did not obtain in foreign services. This 
view is further strengthened by the fact that during the same year (1888) 
out of 742 men discharged on certificates of disability, in 129 instances 
the disability was specifically declared to have existed prior to enlistment. 
About this time the large number of discharges for disability attracted the 
attention of the authorities, and recruiting officers were warned to be more 
strict in their examinations for enlistment ; while a general order required 
that all men recommended for discharge on account of disability be sent to 



MILITARY MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. 



647 



the headquarters of each military department, for observation by the chief 
surgeon, pending h'nal action in their cases. As a result of these require- 
ments the rates for discharge were decreased by nearly one-half in a single 
year, since which time even further diminution has taken place. For the 
year 1897 the rate for discharge on account of disability was only 9.61 per 
thousand as compared with 27.75 during 1888. On comparing the statis- 
tics of the above armies for a more recent period excluding France and 
Spain, for which countries no later figures are obtainable the relative 
status of the United States service is found to be as follows : 



Country. 


Year. 


Admissions to 
hospital or 
infirmary per 
MM" strength. 


Death rate 
per 1,000 
^strength. 


Discharges 
for disability 
per 1.000 
strength. 


Total lossea 
per 1,000 
strength. 


Germany 


1895 


819.9 


2.6 


9.0 


11.6 


Belgium 


1897 


429.3 


2.0 


12.4 


14.4 


United States 


1897 


1,186.61 


5.11 


9.61 


14.72 


Great Britain (home stations). 
Italy 


1897 
1897 


640.6 
694.0 


8.42 
4.2 


19.87 
21.2 


23.29 
25.4 


Russia 


1896 


314.6 


5.40 


24.9 


:iu :<u 


Austria 


1897 


382.7 


4.0 


37.5 


41.5 















It is evident from the above that much has been accomplished during 
the past decade toward improving the effectiveness and sanitary condition 
of our army, and it is safe to assume that at the present time the United 
States soldier not only represents a higher standard of physical excellence 
but is better cared for than is the man-at-arms of nearly every other mili- 
tary service. 

Although, as stated, attempts at the comparison of statistics of differ- 
ent armies are at best necessarily inaccurate and unsatisfactory, within the 
limits of the same service such action may be both feasible and desirable ; 
the standard for the health of an army, as expressed by Smart, being its own 
best annual record. Outside of unusual vicissitudes, exposure and epi- 
demics, and of the unsanitary conditions which bring disease and death 
into the ranks of a military command during campaign, the sanitary sur- 
roundings of the soldier do not vary much from year to year except as they 
are modified by intelligent efforts for their improvement. What has been 
accomplished in the past should therefore be effected in the present; or 
satisfactory explanation should be given of the cause of failure, which 
may thus be converted into a source of protection for the future. 



CHAPTER XV. 

DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 

IN all its aspects, whatever be the special methods employed for its 
attainment, military hygiene has for its object the prevention of disease. 
This, viewed in the abstract and stripped of humanitarian considerations, 
has relation to military efficiency which, in its turn, depends upon the 
proportion of an army which is maintained in a condition vigorously to 
perform such military duties as may be required. The numerical strength 
of the forces which contending nations are able to put into the field influences 
the operations which they perform by equivalence or disparity of numbers. 
As expressed by Napoleon, "Providence is on the side of the largest bat- 
talions." For all practical purposes, it matters little to a commander why 
his force is small or how it is reduced, if the reason of its inferiority or 
the cause of its reduction is brought about by agencies beyond his con- 
trol. But if the agencies are known, if they can be controlled and their 
effects are remediable, it becomes a matter of the greatest importance to 
ascertain the way through which they act and how their effects may be 
limited or obviated, if the causes themselves cannot be removed. Disease 
operates in reducing strength in various ways ; but the point of practical 
importance to military authorities, and especially to the strategist in the 
field, is that disease produces absence this being due to death, to ineffi- 
ciency from sickness and to the necessity of caring for the sick. Reduction 
in strength by death, especially to armies in the field, is of course worse 
in its effects than if the dead men had never been enlisted. Their loss 
from the military standpoint, which presumes that soldiers are constantly 
effective, is unexpected, and plans have frequently to be modified accord- 
dingly. Upon the deceased have been expended training, provisions and 
money for which there is no return, yet which were intended to provide an 
effective force. By the sickness and death of these men the morale of 
the survivors may be lowered ; and in most instances the dead have played 
an important part in the dissemination of morbific agents among their 
fellows. Absence from disease is even more fatal to the success of mili- 
tary operations than is absence from death. It is embarrassing as regards 
strategy and supply when a number of sick have to be retained with an 
army during active campaign ; and the length of time during which such 
cases require treatment therefore becomes a matter of decided military im- 
portance. From the sick, also, disease may be transmitted, and thuS the 
welfare of the majority is menaced. Further, so long as sick soldiers are 
retained in the service, they require an outlay of money and energy for 
their care and support, and of the greatest military importance the places 
occupied by them in their respective organizations, so long as they are 
neither dead nor discharged for disability, cannot be filled by the enlistment 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 649 

of more healthy and effective individuals. Absence in care of the sick 
does not now greatly diminish the fighting strength, as was formerly the 
case, but it implies the necessity for a correspondingly large force of non- 
combatants, for whose needs additional transportation must be provided 
thus sacrificing much of that celerity of movement upon which the success 
of modern military operations depends. 

There are no diseases peculiar to the soldier; those by which he is 
chiefly affected are such as not infrequently occur among males of the mili- 
tary age in civil life. Military conditions are frequently such, however, 
that the germs of infectious disease are widely disseminated among an 
4 especially susceptible body of men and hence a larger number are at- 
tacked and succumb than would probably have been the case in civil life. 
Not only is it true that the factors predisposing to deviation from the stand- 
ards of health are greatly increased in potency, but the course of the dis- 
ease itself, after its establishment, may be markedly influenced. Thus the 
diseases developed in the military establishment are characterized by their 
unusually severe type, the regularity with which outbreaks of some affec- 
tions recur and the frequent tendency of others to become endemo-epidemic. 
The prevailing diseases in armies are, naturally, largely acute, and a large 
proportion of them are zymotic and hence theoretically preventable. 

Excluding traumatism, the causes which chiefly impair the health and 
efficiency of troops, in garrison or during campaign, may be grouped ac- 
cording to their relative importance, as follows : 

(1) Diseases of an infectious character, the spread of which, in the mili- 
tary service, is favored by the aggregation of young and susceptible in- 
dividuals, ignorant or careless in regard to matters of personal hygiene, 
living under conditions implying intimate personal relationship, constant 
contact and, frequently, overcrowding. In many instances, the necessities 
of service require an existence in unhealthful localities favorable to the 
development of pathogenic micro-organisms, and under circumstances in 
which their opportunities for dissemination and entrance into the system 
are much greater than in civil life. In addition, the development of these 
diseases is often markedly favored by depression of the powers of vital re- 
sistance, depending upon great fatigue, exposure to inclemencies of weather, 
insufficient or improper food, impure water and vitiated air. These diseases 
assume far greater importance during active service in the field tlian in 
garrison, being the chief cause of inefficiency among troops during cam- 
paign. 

(2) Diseases due to immoral or intemperate habits, as favored by an en- 
forced celibacy, the absence of wholesome home restraint and the monotony 
often attaching to garrison life. These diseases are factors of the first im- 
portance in time of peace in raising the sick -rates of an army, but during 
active warfare or field service they sink into comparative insignificance. 
Affections of this character are discussed separately in the chapter devoted 
to a consideration of the habits of the soldier. 

(3) Diseases the specific causative agents of which are unknown, but 
which appear to be largely excited by exposure to cold, wet and dampness, 
whether they be found in camp or garrison. These affections have but little 
tendency toward a fatal result, and their importance from the military 
standpoint lies in the considerable amount of temporary inefficiency for ser- 



050 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

vice which they produce. The proportion of soldiers who are temporarily 
incapacitated for all or part of their duty, from these causes, is always 

large. 

(4) Affections due to extremes of temperature. Such are obviously re- 
lated to climate and season and are largely influenced by nature of service ; 
being naturally much more frequent among troops on campaign than among 
those in garrison. Affections of this character are subsequently considered 
in connection with the hygiene of hot and cold climates. 

(5) Diseases produced by food of unsound or unhealthful character. 
Though possible at any time, such are far more liable to occur during war 
or in the field, where greater laxity as regards inspection usually prevails, 
and where deterioration in quality is more liable to occur during transpor- 
tation. Diseases due to such causes have already been considered in con- 
nection with the several articles of the ration. 

(6) Disease due to an improper dietary ; this being largely dependent 
upon facility of supply and transportation, and hence being obviously more 
frequent among troops on active campaign or serving at remote, isolated 
and newly established stations. With the present liberal and scientifically 
constructed ration, inefficiency from this cause should, in the future, be 
rare. 

(7) Diseases directly induced by military service. These may be of 
functional or organic nature and are largely dependent upon the muscular 
labor involved in the execution of military movements, the method of dis- 
posing the equipment upon the person and the mental condition often result- 
ing from field service and conflict. Pathological conditions of this character 
are rarely observed in garrison but are by no means infrequent during 
campaign. They are sometimes seen, in civil life, in individuals whose 
callings require the frequent performance of exhausting labor. 

In the following consideration of the diseases of the soldier, it is obvi- 
ous that only sucli affections as exert a certain positive influence upon 
military efficiency require discussion. To consider in this connection a 
number of rare affections, from the liability to which the soldier is no more 
free than the young man of the military class in civil life and upon the 
occurrence of which neither positive nor negative influence appears to be 
exerted by military service, is clearly both unnecessary and undesirable. 



I. 
THE INFECTIVE DISEASES. 

There can be no infectious disease without the presence of the specific 
causative agent. In addition, there must be an individual susceptibility 
to the disease, on the part of the person attacked, which permits inva- 
sion by and multiplication on the part of the micro-organism concerned. 
Should anything interfere with the cooperation of these two factors, the 
disease cannot occur. It is clear, therefore, that for infection to take 
place ^the attacking powers must be strong or the resistive agencies weak ; 
and as one or the other of these preponderates, so are the organisms killed 
and infection prevented, or the parasitic organisms prevail and make good 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 6T>1 

their position in the body. In the military service, the privations, hard- 
ships and fatigue incident to campaign, and especially the unhealthfulness 
of localities in which troops may be required to serve, do much to render the 
organism especially susceptible to invasion by pathogenic bacteria ; but unless 
such bacteria be actually present, even under such conditions no infectious 
disease can result. Should, however, the specific bacteria be introduced, and 
should the essential external conditions of heat, moisture and decomposing 
organic matter be present for their development outside the body, all the 
conditions for a violent and sudden epidemic outbreak are at hand. These 
are further favored by the density of population and community of living 
which can scarcely be avoided in the military service both of these factors 
directly favoring the dissemination of pathogenic bacteria among large num- 
bers of men and very probably increasing their virulence. 

The principal and original sources of infection in. the transmission of 
infectious disease arc the secretions of the sick, the air respired by them, and 
the dead body. Articles contaminated by contact with the above and harbor- 
ing the specific pathogenic agent, such as clothing, bedding or the water in 
which they are washed, are merely mediate carriers of" the infection. For 
the military service, all epidemics may be regarded as developing from 
an infection introduced from outside. Bearing these facts in mind, the 
prevention or control of infectious disease will be more readily accomplished 
by the sanitary officer. 

CEREBRO-SPINAL MENINGITIS. 

Occurrence. No great epidemics of this disease appear to have oc- 
curred among troops, but the affection is one which prevails in all armies 
and is remarkable for the high mortality given by those affected. Sharp 
but distinctly localized outbreaks occur annually in all the larger armies, 
and in our wn service cases of the disease were reported in all but six 
years of the period 1868-98. The affection may fairly be regarded as a 
camp disease; more deaths occurring in our army in the calendar year 1898 
than had occurred altogether in the previous sixteen years of peace. For 
the period 1868-84, the death rate from this disease was .05 per thousand 
strength; for the decade 1885-94 it was .02 per thousand, while for the 
fourteen months, May, 1898, to July, 1899, the death rate was .70 per 
thousand. In the German army, during time of peace, the admission rates 
are much lower than our own under similar conditions, being given as 
follows : 

P,rind Admissions per 

lod - 1.000 strength. 

1881-82 to 1885-86 .. 0.08 

1886-87 to 1890-91 07 

1891-92 to 1895-96 08 

1895-96 to 1897-98 07 

Among our own troops the admission rates, per thousand strength, were 
.11 for the period 1885-94. In 1898 cerebro-spinal meningitis was the 
greatest factor in the total mortality of the Belgian army, giving a death 
rate of .35 per thousand. 

Cause. The cause of epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis is now gen- 
erally regarded as the micrococcus described under the name of diplococcus 




f,52 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

intracellularis meniugitidis. This organism, as its name implies, is found 
usually in pairs, and located in the pus-cells of the exudate in much the 
same way as the gonococcus is located in the pus-cells of gonorrho3a. It 
is readily detected by microscopical examination of the spinal exudate, ob- 
tained by lumbar puncture. The organism can be artificially cultivated, but 
only with difficulty. It grows best on blood serum or nutrient agar ; though 
occasionally it will not develop in either medium when its presence in the 
exudate is positively determined by the microscope. It grows only at 
body temperature. It stains with the ordinary aniline dyes, but is'de- 

colomed by Gram's method. It is very 
virulent when injected into animals. 
On drying it is destroyed in one to 
three days, according to circumstances. 
Predisposing Causes. The dis- 
ease is most common in individuals 
of the military age. Though want, 
privation and poor ventilation usually 
seem to predispose to the disease, there 
is abundant evidence to demonstrate 
that these conditions are not essential 
to its causation. The disease usually 
occurs during winter and early spring, 
although it may make its appearance 
at any time. For the period from May, 
1898, to July, 1899, the death rate 
from this disease was .13 per thousand strength in January; being about 
twice as high as any other month of the period. For December it was .07 ; 
for June and July, 1898, it was .06 and .05 respectively. Hirsch, Notter 
and Firth and others state that cerebro-spinal meningitis is unknown in 
the tropics. During the period of fourteen months just mentioned, how- 
ever, the death rate from this cause was .71 per thousand strength for troops 
serving in the United States; .34 for troops serving in Cuba; .16 for those 
in Porto Rico and .26 for those in the Pacific islands. An epidemic of a 
most fatal type occured on an army transport at Casilda, in southern Cuba, 
during the occupation of that island by our forces. Of those attacked, all 
died within thirty-six hours. The epidemic was abruptly terminated by 
sending the command ashore. For the year 1899 the admission and death 
rates for this disease among troops serving in the tropical islands were .40 
and .25 respectively ; for troops serving in the United States during the same 
period the admissions were .90 and the deaths .60 per thousand strength. 
Infection and Dissemination. It is difficult to offer any satisfactory 
explanation as to the manner in which infection occurs in this disease, or 
to the way in which the specific micro-organism is eliminated from the 
affected individual. Whether it enters the body through the alimentary or 
respiratory tract or through lesions of the integument, it is not possible to*feay. 
It is probably directly communicable from the sick in a mild degree only, but 
there is considerable evidence to show that the infection may be introduced 
into a locality by infected persons and things. Abbott and others are in- 
clined to the belief that cases occurring during an epidemic are infected 
from some common source, and that they are predisposed to such affection 



FIG. 335. Diplucoccus of Meningitis. 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 653 

by somo unusual local condition. This opinion is supported by the fact 
that the disease shows no special tendency to progress along continuous 
lines or through contiguous localities. It has been known to appear in 
two regiments in a camp, while a third, located between the infected organ- 
izations, escaped. Love states that at New Orleans, in 1847, the disease 
attacked one regiment, which was quartered in poor barracks located on 
a damp soil and was supplied with i>oor clothing, while an adjacent regi- 
ment, more favorably housed and clothed, escaped entirely. Depressing 
influences, whatever their nature, appear to be a predisposing cause. 

Prophylaxis. With present defective knowledge concerning the 
manner of infection and dissemination of the causative agent in this dis- 
ease, it is difficult to formulate any rational scheme of prophylaxis against 
it. While the isolation of the sick has not been shown to be imperative, 
still this precaution should probably be always taken in the military service. 
As with typhus and measles, free ventilation should be assured and no con- 
siderable aggregation of the sick under one roof should be allowed. As a 
not unreasonable precaution, all discharges and excreta should be promptly 
disinfected and accidental inoculation on the part of the attendants guarded 
against. 

As far as the troops are concerned, free ventilation, sufficient clothing, 
an abundance of gooU food and the avoidance of excessive fatigue should be 
included in the scheme of general prophylaxis. 

CHOLERA. 

Occurrence. The military history of Asiatic cholera appears to begin 
with the year 1757, when the British troops in India suffered greatly from 
its attacks. It is said that one division of 5,000 men had 500 deaths from 
cholera in a single day. In 1817, according to Rosse, in a force under 
Hastings the onset was so sudden that sentries fell as if struck by light- 
ning and it required three or four men to stand a tour of guard duty of 
two hours; in five days there were 5,000 deaths, and the command was 
almost destroyed. In 1821, cholera made such ravages in the armies of 
Turkey and Persia that it forced military operations in Mesopotamia to be 
brought to an end. In the years 1830-31 cholera extended aU over Europe 
and was shortly afterward brought to this country ; troops being attacked 
at a number of stations. At Fort Dearborn, on the present site of Chicago, 
it is stated by Rosse that 200 men out of a garrison of 1,000 were ad- 
mitted to hospital with cholera in the course of agven days. During the 
Crimean War there were 7,375 cases of cholera in the British army, with 
4,513 deaths; in the French army there were 12,258 cases, with 6,013 
deaths. Among the French troops composing the Dobrutschka expedition 
it is said that at one time no less than 10,000 men lay dead or struck 
down by cholera. Out of one battalion, besides those already dead, 500 
soldiers affected with cholera were carried in the wagons. Coustan states 
that in one division of 10,590 men participating in this expedition there 
were 2,036 deaths. In 1866, during the war between Austria and Prussia, 
more deaths occurred from cholera, in the armies of the latter country, than 
resulted from the casualties of battle. At the close of the Civil War our 
troops suffered severely from this disease ; there being, in 1866, 2,813 cases 



654 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

and 1,269 deaths. In 1867 there were 504 cases and 230 deaths, and in 
1868 there were 7 cases and 3 deaths. Cholera almost destroyed a body 
of recruits marching from Leavenworth to Fort Hayes, in Kansas, and was 
also epidemic at Fort Kiley and other stations during this period; being 
carried by recruits from New York to California, Louisiana, Texas and 
Georgia. In 1866 it also broke out in Brazil and the Argentine and 
was carried by the armies into Paraguay. In the outbreak of 1873 our 
array was little affected, there occurring but 12 cases with 8 deaths, and 
since that year there have been no further deaths from this cause in our 
service. The French army has suffered witli the civil population during 
the various outbreaks of cholera in France and Algeria. Kosse states that 
in Paris, for the period 1832-49, and again for 1853, the mortality 
amounted to 14.76 per thousand among the civil population and 42.59 
per thousand among the garrison troops. In many later instances, how- 
ever, especially in the outbreaks of 1884 and 1893, the greater care as to 
sanitary conditions in the French military service preserved the soldiers, 
while deaths occurred in the surrounding civil population. In the British 
army, during the decade 1888-97, cholera occurred among troops in India, 
Egypt, China and Ceylon. In India, for this decade, the admission rate 
per thousand was 1.8; the death rate 1.29. Cholera figures almost annu- 
ally in the returns for the Itussian army, certain military garrisons of 
which are located in regions where the disease prevails endemically. Re- 
cent figures for cholera in the Russian army are as follows : 



Year. 


Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 


Deaths per 
1,000 strength. 


Year. 


Admissions per 
l.ooo strength. 


Deaths per 
1,000 strength. 


1890 


006 


002 


1894 


1.00 


0.35 


1891 






1895 


.40 


.10 


1892 


4 3 


1 83 


1896 


.01 


.002 


1893 


1.61 


.46 









Cause. Cholera results from an invasion of the body by the specific 
micro-organism of the disease. The spirillum or comma bacillus is a 
curved or spiral organism, occurring most frequently in the form of a short, 
comma-shaped rod. The curving of the rod varies, being very marked in 
some individuals and absent in others. In cultures some days old, de- 
generated and atypical forms are found. The organism is motile, and a 
single flagellum is attached to the end of the rod. The microbe does not 
form spores nor cause fermentation of glucose or lactose. It liquefies 
gelatin and produces indol. Litmus milk is turned red and is coagulated 
by it. It does not stain by Gram's method. Freezing does not destroy 
its vitality, but drying destroys it in a few hours. When in a moist con- 
dition it retains its vitality for many months. Woodhead has pointed out 
that when grown anaerobically the bacillus gains greatly in virulence but 
largely loses its power of resistance to germicidal agents; conversely, 
when grown aerobically, it largely loses its virulence but gains in resisting 
power. Comma bacilli are only feebly resistant to acid solutions ; a fact 
which explains the greater susceptibility to this disease of individuals affected 
with digestive disorders. In stab cultures, growth occurs all along the line 
of inoculation, with liquefaction at the surface in forty-eight hours. The 
liquefaction proceeds in such a manner that the liquefied area has a smaller 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. U.V, 

diameter at the surface than immediately beneath, and owing to the fact 
that the liquefied gelatin does not fill the cavity, a space is left between 
the surface of the medium and the surface of the liquefied gelatin, so that 
the appearance of an air-bubble is produced. On gelatin plates the largest 
colonies, after incubation for twenty-four to forty -eight hours at 20-22 
C., appear as masses of indefinite granular material lying in circular areas 
of liquefied gelatin, in which granular shreds are scattered. Within the 
next twenty-four hours the areas of liquefaction increase, and the colonies 
api>ear under the low power as a dense granular mass surrounded by an 
area of liquefaction through which can be seen granular prolongations of 
the colony, usually extending irregu- 
larly l>etween the periphery and the 
central mass. 

While in form and methods of 
growth the comma bacillus is resembled 
by another group of special organisms, 
it is safe to assume, during the preva- 
lence of Asiatic cholera, that indivi- 
duals presenting comma bacilli in their 
intestinal discharges are affected with 
this disease. The most important di- 
agnostic tests for this organism depend, 
according to Muir and Eitchie, upon 
its failure to infect pigeons when a 
small portion of a solid culture of it is * 
introduced into the pectoral muscle; 
and also the loss of motility and clumping of the cholera bacilli which fol- 
lows upon their contact with the serum of animals artificially immunized 
to Asiatic cholera. The effect of introducing cholera bacilli into the peri- 
toneal cavity of the guinea-pig is discussed later in connection with the 
preparation of prophylactic fluids. 

Dissemination and Infection. The specific causative agency in 
cholera is given off chiefly from the bowels, and to a less degree in the 
vomitus. The length of time during which the stools of a cholera patient 
are infectious is unknown, but it probably is a considerable period. As 
with typhoid fever, apparently healthy persons appear at times, during an 
epidemic, to act as hosts for the bacilli and play a part in the propagation 
of the disease. While the disease sometimes follows contact with the 
sick, it may fairly be regarded as only slightly contagious and not likely 
to be contracted except by indirect infection. The latter undoubtedly 
occurs by way of the alimentary tract. There is no proof that air ever 
serves as the vehicle for the transmission of cholera bacilli; though in this 
disease, as in typhoid fever, its dissemination by this means should Ije 
regarded as possible. Water has long been recognized as the chief agent 
in the spread of cholera; and abundant circumstantial evidence to this 
effect is fortified by a number of instances in which the specific etiological 
factor has been discovered in water by bacteriological investigation. 
Many instances have been reported in which the infection of a water-sup- 
ply was followed by outbreaks in communities further down the stream. 
In the epidemic at Hamburg, in 1892, the part played by an infected 




656 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

water-supply was most marked ; the proportionate number of cases being 
eight times greater in that part of the city hi which unfiltered water was 
supplied than in the part in which the drinking water was partially purified 
by sand filtration. Recently, among the British troops at Umballa, in 
India, an epidemic of cholera promptly ceased as soon as a supply of steril- 
ized water was provided for drinking purposes. Cholera bacilli flourish 
best in sluggish streams, and especially in water containing a considerable 
proportion of organic matter. Under certain circumstances, not as yet 
fully understood, the bacillus is capable of rapid multiplication in water, 
but many saprophytic micro-organisms are hostile to its development and 
appear to destroy its vitality in the course of a few hours or days. Any con- 
tamination of this specific character, however small, is capable at times of im- 
parting to enormous quantities of water the power of originating the disease. 
Damp earth undoubtedly serves at times as a medium for the development of 
the bacillus outside the human body. At Lucknow, 90 soldiers out of 600 
died apparently as a result of placing fresh sand, taken from the bank of a 
river used as a general bathing place, in a filter from which water was 
drawn for the use of the command. Food, contaminated by cholera dis- 
charges, also serves as an agent for the spread of the disease. This is 
rarely directly infected, but is contaminated by manipulation with unclean 
hands, by contact with infected objects, by dust containing the specific germs 
or by the agency of flies which have recently fed on cholera discharges. 
In India, medical officers now regard the latter as one of the more com- 
mon agencies by which the spread of cholera is accomplished. In the 
Burdwan prison, where other means of infection were scarcely possible, it is 
said by Buchanan that a recent epidemic was directly traceable to flies which 
were carried over the prison wall by a high wind blowing from the direc- 
tion of some native houses, in which the disease had occurred. During 
the outbreak in the Gaya jail, Macrae found that milk to which flies in 
the jail were given access invariably became infected with comma bacilli ; 
and he concluded that " flies should be looked on in the light of poisonous 
agencies of the worst kind during cholera epidemics." The cholera bacilli 
may be carried in fomites, particularly in rags or clothing soiled with the 
focal discharges of the sick. Under such conditions they retain their 
vitality for considerable periods, though they are readily destroyed by 
sunlight and desiccation. As with typhoid fever, the disease germs may 
be carried into camp or barracks on the shoes of individuals who have 
visited an infected latrine or locality. Marching troops, when infected, do 
much to spread the disease through districts in which it may have been 
previously unknown. 

The period of incubation of cholera is usually about three days, but 
this, under rare circumstances, may extend to as much as ten days. 

Predisposing Causes. Cholera prevails endemically in certain parts 
of India, from which it extends from time to time. It appears to be a 
settled fact that where the disease prevails in an endemic form it does not 
occur in great epidemics. A severe outbreak appears to confer upon the 
locality attacked a more or less complete immunity; the durability of 
which, so far as India is concerned, appears to last for a number of years. 
A high temperature is a predisposing cause of great importance ; but while 
many epidemics have ceased with the advent of cold weather, this is by no 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 657 

means always the case. In the tropics, cholera prevails to the greatest 
extent toward the close of the dry season. A moderate rainfall tends to 
cause the further development of the disease, but when the rains are heavy 
and continued a marked diminution in the occurrence of cholera is con- 
stantly observed. There is a' general consensus of opinion that the in- 
cidence and severity of the disease are greater among negroes than among 
whites. In the United States army, during the epidemic at the end of 1866, 
the mortality among the white troops was 77 per thousand, while among the 
colored troops it was 135 per thousand. Where the disease prevails en- 
demically, the native population appears to enjoy a considerable but not 
absolute immunity to it. In the Hedjaz and in the sparsely populated 
}>arts of Arabia, it is said by Fauvel that the disease manifests only a feeble 
tendency to propagate itself among the native population. This immunity, 
however, is not shared by strangers visiting a locality eiidemically affected. 
As a race, the Chinese appear to be notably free from the ravages of cholera, 
probably largely from their use of sterilized water in tea. In any outbreak 
of this disease, numbers escape attack through their hereditary or gradually 
acquired powers of resistance. For epidemics of cholera a stratum of moist 
soil pervious to air, in which organic material is decomposing, affords the 
most favorable condition. General sanitary defects, by which the specific 
fouling of soil and water is possible, are essential to the development of an 
epidemic, and it has long been observed that the poorer quarters of a com- 
munity suffer far more during a cholera visitation. Epidemics, also, pre- 
vail more severely in low-lying regions than on high ground. Insufficient, 
poor or coarse food, improper clothing and inadequate shelter favor the 
occurrence of cholera ; and physical and mental depression are both mark- 
edly predisposing causes. Overcrowding is also a factor of importance. 
Those who are affected with catarrh of the intestinal tract and diseases of 
the digestive apparatus are particularly susceptible to cholera infection. 

Prophylaxis. In view of the fact that in practically every instance 
of an outbreak of cholera, in regions or communities in which it is not 
endemic, its origin has been traced to importation from abroad, it is mani- 
fest that where practicable a system of quarantine should be established as 
soon as the danger of an introduction of the infection is recognized. No 
person from the infected locality should be admitted within the military 
lines without undergoing examination and being held under observation 
for a period of ten days. All clothing and similar articles should be dis- 
infected before being passed; supplies intended for food, unless carried 
through the affected district in unbroken packages, should not be admitted. 
Special cholera hospitals, in readiness for an outbreak, should be established 
and provided with a special staff of attendants. They should not be located 
at too great a distance from the main body of iroops, from the rapid nature 
of the disease. Such hospitals should possess separate facilities for the 
isolation and treatment of suspects as well as clearly defined cases of cholera. 
If the disease appears to be spreading and the camp or post is not in good 
sanitary condition, its abandonment by troops is indicated. 

When the disease prevails, all persons suffering from diarrhoea, no 

matter how insignificant the affection may appear, should be regarded as 

suspicious and should be subjected to the same vigilant supervision as applies 

to genuine cholera patients for many of these cases, though mild as regards 

42 



658 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

the affected individuals, are nevertheless those of true cholera and are capable 
of disseminating this disease. Because of their apparently innocent nature 
these cases often escape the attention their importance demands; and un- 
less it be borne in mind that they are a grave menace to all with whom 
they are associated, and are treated as such, they can only be regafded as 
most dangerous sources for the dissemination of disease far more so than 
the severe cases which attract attention from the outset. To this end, 
frequent inspections of latrines should be made and the character of the 
discharges noted. Convalescents from cholera should be kept isolated, and 
the evacuations from the bowels should be constantly disinfected until 
bacteriological examination demonstrates that the specific micro-organism 
causing the disease has disappeared from the discharges. Such individuals 
should be returned to their respective organizations only after a disinfect- 
ing bath and after donning a complete outfit of clothing sterilized through- 
i-ut. The antecedents of each case of cholera should be investigated, and 
all those who have been in immediate association with the patient should 
be placed under observation. Every effort should be taken to locate the 
probable source of infection. 

As cholera germs can live and multiply for a time, outside the body, 
in the presence of decomposing organic material, more particularly that of 
animal matter, there should be a thorough removal of every sort of filth 
and refuse from the camp or garrison. Thorough cleansing, airing, paint- 
ing and lime-washing should be carried out wherever indicated. It should 
not be forgotten that, although desirable at all times, measures of cleanli- 
ness taken in advance are of far more value for protection against cholera 
than policing delayed until after the disease has actually made its appear- 
ance. The water used for drinking purposes should invariably be sterilized ; 
preferably by heat and best by the Forbes-Waterhouse apparatus. Under 
all circumstances, in time of cholera, an immediate and searching examina- 
tion of the sources and conduits of the water-supply should be made, when 
it is in any way open to the suspicion of impurity. Where pollution is 
found to have occurred, every care should be taken to prevent such pollu- 
tion from continuing and the water from being utilized. Where the water 
supply is believed to be at fault, washing of the person, except with boiled 
water, should be prevented as far as possible. For marching troops, great 
care should be taken to prevent the use of water from infected towns. Tea 
has l>een much used by British troops in India during cholera outbreaks, as 
being more palatable than ordinary boiled water. Acidulated drinks con- 
taining sulphuric acid, acetic or citric acid may sometimes be given with ad- 
vantage. Red wine is also recognized as destructive to the cholera bacillus ; 
and a ration of this, taken diluted in water, might well be issued during an 
epidemic. The use of alcoholics generally, as interfering with digestion, 
should be avoided. The food supplied should be abundant, simply prepared 
and readily digestible. Intemperance in eating, however, is quite as bad as 
intemperance in drinking. Particular care should be taken to ensure the 
condemnation and rejection of any food of unsound or indigestible character 
capable of exciting a diarrhoea. With the exception of acid fruits protected 
by an outer rind, such as oranges and lemons, no article of food should be 
eaten that has not been subjected to a boiling temperature in its prepara- 
tion. Under no circumstances should the use of uncooked vegetables or 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. (,:.'. 

salads be permitted. All food and drink should be carefully protected 
against access by flies, since some of these may have previously come in 
contact with cholera discharges. Prior to use, all vessels employed for the 
cooking, serving or storing of food should be sterilised by immersion in 
boiling water. The purchase of food or drink by the men at points outside 
of military control should be prohibited. The hands should be washed 
before eating. Troops should be well clothed, sufficiently to protect against 
cold, chilling and moisture; it is during outbreaks of intestinal disorders 
of this character that the use of the abdominal band is of most advantage. 
The clothing should be frequently changed, washed and sunned. 

There should be no unnecessary exposure to sun, rain or night air; and 
no drills or fatigue other than to furnish occupation and needful exercise. 
The size of the guard and the length of the tours of duty should be reduced 
as much as military conditions permit. In addition to fatigue, nothing is 
more conducive to the spread of the disease than fear and unusual excite- 
ment, and a quiescent state of mind should be enjoined upon all. In 
general, the troops should be regarded as engaged in campaign against an 
insidious and implacable enemy, and the attention of every officer should 
be devoted to superintending the conduct of his subordinates with special 
reference to this view. 

In time of impending epidemic, troops should be scattered. A change 
of soil and locality often appears to be of advantage and camps should be 
moved as often as cases appear. Troops that have fallen back before the 
advance of the disease have often escaped seizure, or have avoided further 
sickness if withdrawn subsequent to the time of their attack. A temporary 
abandonment of an infected locality is strongly to be recommended. When 
the disease has actually occurred, efforts at disinfection should be primarily 
directed toward the vomitus and fecal matter. These should, as far as 
possible, be burned. If the cases occur on board ship, the excreta should 
be received in vessels and disinfected. They should not be discharged 
overboard,- particularly if in harbor or on fresh water, but should be de- 
stroyed by fire. The disinfection to be practiced includes that of the bar- 
racks, tents or places occupied by the sick, and the articles of clothing and 
bedding with which they may have come in contact and upon its prompt- 
ness and thoroughness, together with isolation of all those attacked by 
cholera and their attendants, depends the arrest of the epidemic. If due 
care in regard to cleanliness and disinfection be observed, there is compara- 
tively small risk that the disease will spread to those who nurse or other- 
wise attend upon the sick. Frequent baths on the part of the attendants, 
with disinfection of the hands after each manipulation of the patient, 
should be required. 

Preventive Inoculation. As a method of prophylaxis against cholera, 
inoculations with specially prepared virus have been systematized and suc- 
cessfully practiced in India by Haffkiue. The method gives an immunity 
to the living microbe, preventing it from surviving after entering the 
system and thus causing an attack of the disease. If, however, the specific 
bacillus once succeeds in establishing itself, the inoculation appears to have 
no influence upon the symptoms of the disease, as produced by the toxines 
resulting from its growth and development. The method depends upon the 
immunizing of the patient by accustoming the system of the individual to the 



GtiO THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

specific organism by the injection, first, of a weak, and later, of a virulent 
culture. By some, small and large doses of a virulent culture are preferred. 

As the cholera bacilli found in dead cholera cases vary greatly in ap- 
j>earance and virulence, Haffkine advises that only the most typical speci- 
mens be employed in the preparation of the prophylactic fluid. This is 
done as follows: A pure culture, grown on agar, is emulsified with a small 
amount of sterilized water. - The emulsion is then drawn into a suitable 
pipette and injected into the peritoneal cavity of a guinea-pig, previously 
prepared by an assistant by shaving and searing the abdomen. The ani- 
mal usually dies in twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the inoculation, 
and the peritoneal exudate is found to contain comma bacilli of greatly 
increased virulence. This exudate is then passed into the peritoneal cavity 
of another guinea-pig, and the process is repeated until the microbe reaches 
its maximum virulence, when a healthy guinea-pig, weighing about 375 
gin., will be killed in about eight hours. Between each inoculation into 
the guinea-pigs, the exudate should be stored in a dark place for fourteen 
to sixteen hours, since if this be not done the microbes soon lose their 
virulence and die out. The exudation, where the bacilli are vigorous, is 
clear and transparent and of a reddish color. It varies greatly in quantity, 
ranging from six or seven cubic centimeters to a few drops. In general, 
the larger and more resistant the guinea-pig inoculated, or the weaker the 
virus or the smaller the injected dose, the larger will be the quantity of 
the fiuid and vice versa. Large quantities of exudate contain proportion- 
ally few microbes. 

Agar tubes inoculated with virulent peritoneal exudate are now incu- 
bated for twelve to twenty-four hours at 37 C. A free growth is obtained 
by passing -the point of a small glass brush, carrying a growth obtained 
from a culture of the peritoneal exudate, over the agar slant until the sur- 
face is evenly infected. After incubation and an examination to ensure 
that no contamination by other micro-organisms has occurred, sterilized 
water is poured into each tube. Usually, for growths made in twenty-four 
hours, the water should reach one-third the way up the agar slant. The 
tube is then rolled between the fingers until the bacilli have been soaked 
off' into the water. The emulsions should be protected against sunlight, 
or a strong diffuse light, and should be used within an hour. The inocu- 
lation is made under antiseptic precautions, usually in the flank. Hare 
makes the following remarks as to the dose : " A standard bacteriological 
tube is 16 cm. long and 1 cm. broad, and is filled to two-thirds of its 
height with agar mixture. Such tubes, with a culture of comma bacilli of 
the full strength after twenty-four hours' growth at the temperature of the 
body, may be taken as a unit ; and when filled with water up to one-third 
the height of the agar, each tube will give a definite quantity of vaccine of 
a standard strength. The dose of such vaccine for an adult is half a cubic 
centimeter. To decide the dose of the second injection the operator must 
rely exclusively on the amount of fever produced by the first. The average 
height to which it rises after a full dose is 102-103 F., ten to twelve 
hours after the operation ; in such cases a full dose of the second vaccine 
may be given; but in exceptional cases where the fever reaches 104 F., 
or over, give only two-thirds of the full dose, and when the fever stops be- 
low 101 F., give in excess of the full dose." 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 661 

In some instances the bacilli are killed before injection b/ the addition 
of dilute carbolic acid, but living microbes are ordinarily employed. Ac- 
cording to Cantlie, the bacilli die immediately after the fluid is injected 
subcutaneously, and hence the choice of either form seems immaterial. 
Other observers believe that the immunity conferred by living organisms 
is of longer duration than where the dead bacilli, or the products of their 
cultures, are employed. The method of inoculation, when proper care is 
taken in the preparation of the anti-microbic fluid and in its administra- 
tion, appears to be quite devoid of danger. In speaking of the reaction 
which follows such inoculation, Simpson says: "There is a certain discom- 
fort produced by the inoculation, such as an attack of fever lasting about 
twenty-four hours, pain at the seat of inoculation on moving, thus interfer- 
ing with physical work for about thirty-six hours. The discomfort, how- 
ever, is not worse than that induced by vaccination, when the vesicles have 
risen well, and has the advantage of not lasting nearly as long." 

The protection conferred seems to be marked at the end of four days, 
and during this period the difference in susceptibility to cholera is in favor 
of the inoculated. The duration of the immunity acquired has been shown 
to exist for at least fourteen months. Simpson states that the blood sera 
of individuals after inoculation have a destructive effect on cholera bacilli 
which is more than two hundred times greater than that of the sera of 
unprotected persons. 

A large number of individuals upward of 100,000 have been inocu- 
lated by Haffkine, in India, against cholera; among them a number of 
white and native soldiers in the British service. While the results have 
varied greatly, they are on the whole distinctly favorable. Among 1,526 
non -inoculated soldiers at Dinapore and Cawnpore there were 25 cases, 
while among the 268 inoculated there were no cases. In Calcutta, from 
the 10th to the 459th day after inoculation, cholera visited 26 houses. 
Among the 263 uninoculated inmates there were 14.45 per cent, attacked, 
while among the 137 inoculated the proportion attacked was only .75 per 
cent. The East Lancashire regiment received weak protective inoculations. 
Some months later it was exposed to cholera, and the small death rate showed 
the prophylactic value of the inoculation. According to Simpson, 654 in- 
dividuals not protected against cholera had, during a period of two years, a 
mortality of 10.86 per cent. ; while of 402 members of the same house- 
holds, inoculated by him, the mortality from cholera during the same 
period was but 2.99 per cent. While prophylactic inoculation against 
cholera is still under trial, it may fairly be assumed that a means of pre- 
vention of much value has been discovered. 

DENGUE. 

While dengue is not a disease which appears to be in any way affected 
by the conditions of military service, our troops have suffered equally with 
the surrounding civil population during the epidemics which have from 
time to time occurred. Since this affection is confined to tropical and 
sub-tropical countries, the only posts in this country which have been 
visited are those located in the south and southwest. During 1893 the 
affection prevailed in several garrisons. In 1894 the disease occurred at 



662 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Fort Ringgold, attacking 154 men out of the 178 stationed at that post. 
In 1897 dengue appeared at Fort Sam Houston; 144 cases developing out 
of a total strength of 522, and over 100 cases being treated among the 
families of soldiers and civilians at the post. During the same year the 
garrison at Fort Mclntosh, also suffered. Recently a large number of cases 
of this disease have occurred among our troops in Cuba and in the Philip- 
pine Islands. 

The cause of dengue is unknown. The outbreak of the disease is 
favored by high temperature and geographical location more than any other 
factors; occurring chiefly during summer and early autumn and being 
checked by frost. In its distribution, dengue closely resembles yellow- 
fever. Overcrowding and tilth appear to favor its occurrence. The mor- 
tality is small, and for soldiers otherwise in good health ma? be regarded 
as nil. The disease, therefore, is of importance only as it incapacitates for 
duty. The specific cause of the disease is supposed to be given off in the 
saliva and excretions, and perhaps from the skin. Its incubation period 
is only a few hours, a fact which may explain its almost simultaneous 
appearance in large bodies of men. 

Prophylaxis. In the lack of knowledge as to the cause of this disease 
or the means of spreading it, it is not possible to formulate definite plans for 
its prevention. Since the ubiquity of the virus is so great in this disease, 
the establishment of quarantine would scarcely be effective even if it 
were justifiable. The isolation of the sick, with the disinfection of all ex- 
creta, clothing and surroundings, might be practiced, but would probably 
not be of any great value in checking an epidemic. It is fortunate that 
the disease is mild in type, is of short duration and leaves no after-effects 
thus being of comparatively little importance to the military sanitarian. 

DlARRIKEA AND DlARRHCEAL DISEASE. 

Diarrho?a is ordinarily to be regarded not as an essential disease but as 
symptomatic of some morbid internal condition or of an effort on the part 
of the healthy bowel to relieve itself of irritating contents. In the mili- 
tary service, however, the affection frequently prevails among a large 
number of soldiers at the same time and place, and by its severity, its 
tendency to become chronic, its refractability to treatment and its un- 
doubtedly infectious character it may, under such conditions, be safely re- 
garded as a distinct disease. Figures showing the prevalence of this 
specific affection are not available for our service, owing to the classification 
of all diarrhoeas, whether symptomatic or essential, under the same head- 
ing. Further, in the medical reports of our army, conditions of this char- 
acter, together with dysentery, are classed together as diarrhceal disease 
and hence must be largely considered in relation to each other. 

Diarrhoeal diseases produce a large amount of inefficiency and during 
the decade 1887-96 brought more men on sick report than any other class 
of affections, the rate per thousand strength being 107.09. Field service 
largely favors their occurrence, and in nearly all wars they have been the most 
common class of affections occurring among troops. For the year of peace 
1897, the admission rate in our army for all diarrhceal diseases was 73.77 
and the death rate zero; while during the year of war, 1898, the admission 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



rate was 303.76 and the death rate 2.14. These diseases are much more 
prevalent in hot climates than in the temperate zone, the admissions and 
deaths for troops in the United States alone, during the year 1898, being 
respectively 247.39 and 1.39 jter thousand strength; while for those serv- 
ing in the tropical islands the admissions were 551.54 per thousand, and 
the deaths 5.44. 

For diarrhoea alone, the average annual rate of admission was 608.84, 
per thousand strength, during the Civil War; while the deaths from this 
cause averaged 13.70 }>er thousand. For the period 1868-84 the ad- 
missions for diarrhoea were reduced to 230.45, and the deaths to .26, per 
thousand strength. For the decade 1885-94 the admission rate was 
109.65 and the death rate .02. For the year 1897 the admissions per 
thousand amounted to but 68.65, there being no deaths. For the year 




Fio. 327. Chart Showing the Monthly Distribution of Case* of Diarrhtral Disease, per Thousand Strength, 
Occurring during the Decade 1>7."> >i. in the United States Army. 

1898, during the war with Spain, the admission rate rose to 274.49, but 
the death rate amounted to only .27 per thousand strength. 

Diarrhoeal diseases, in the temperate zone, are much more prevalent 
during hot weather, as is well shown by the accompanying diagram. 
Race is a matter of no small importance. While the colored troops are 
particularly susceptible to infection by dysentery, this is not the case with 
regard to simple diarrhoea, to which they appear to present a certain im- 
munity. For the decade of peace 1886-95, the admissions per thousand 
of white troops, for all diarrhcoal diseases, amounted to 115.68; while for 
the colored troops during the same period the rate was 99.75. For the 
year 1897 the rates of admission were 75.78 for white troops and 52.22 for 
colored soldiers. 1 hiring the war with Spain a proportionally much greater 
number of negro soldiers saw hard service than did those of the white 
regiments, yet the admissions for the former were only 187.20 per thousand 
strength, while they amounted to 312.72 per thousand of the latter. Age 



(UU THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

exerts a marked influence on the occurrence of diarrhoeal diseases; the 
rates for our service, at various periods of life, averaged for the seven years 
1890-96, being as follows: 

Admissions per 
AK 6 - 1,000 of each class. 

19 years and under 202.43 

20 to 24 inclusive 134.19 

25 to 29 " 98.70 

A 30 to 34 " 82.00 

* 35 to 39 " 79.00 

40 to 44 " 80.96 

45 to 49 " 75.68 

For the same seven-year period the admission rates for all diarrhoeal 
diseases, per thousand strength, were thus divided among various branches 
of the service : 

Artillery .... 133.35 

Cavalry 113.29 

Infantry 96.84 

Medical Department 34.96 

Diarrhoeal diseases are much less frequent among officers than among 
soldiers. 

As stated above, in many instances diarrhoea is undoubtedly, infectious 
and capable of transmission to others by means of the excreta. No special 
micro-organism has been shown to stand alone in a causative relationship 
to the disease, and the latter may probably be produced by several forms 
of bacterial life. Diarrhoea prevails most in damp soils, especially when 
contaminated with organic matter. The diarrhoea prevalence and death 
rate are notoriously greatest among those whose resistive powers are im- 
paired by malnutrition, exposure and fatigue. As with dysentery, chill- 
ing and sudden changes of temperature appear as predisposing factors. 
Foul air favors it, and want of ventilation and light are conducive to a 
high mortality. Density of population, especially as a factor in the soil 
pollution of camps, markedly increases the prevalence of diarrhoea. Food 
is closely concerned with the epidemic prevalence of diarrhoea ; not only by 
predisposing toward it through the production of digestive disorders, but also 
by its contamination with infectious material capable of directly provoking 
the disease. Bad water undoubtedly plays a prominent part, but prob- 
ably not to the extent supposed by some. The cause of epidemic diarrhoea 
is undoubtedly transmissible by means of flies, and there is considerable 
evidence to show that air-currents may be the means of its dissemination. 

A distinction should be made between the epidemic diarrhoea indicated 
by the foregoing and those outbreaks of diarrhoea which not rarely occur 
among troops who have partaken of food in which certain putrefactive 
changes have occurred. In these cases the causative agent is usually a 
chemical substance and the diarrhoeal symptoms produced are merely those 
due to the properties of the latter as an irritant poison. 

Prophylaxis. The prevention of epidemic diarrhoea depends, upon 
the proper location of the camp, the absence of organic pollution of 
soil, a pure water supply, the careful selection, preparation and storji 
food, and the prompt disinfection of all excretal discharges in camps of 
any yermanency. 

While mild qases, in garrison, may be safely treated in quarters 




DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 665 

under most circumstances, in the field, where their infectious nature is 
suspected, such cases should preferably be removed to hospital for treat- 
ment particularly since cases of apparent simple diarrhoea may often 
represent the early stages of infection with dysentery, typhoid fever or 
cholera. From the many causes by which diarrhoea may be produced, it is 
evident that no general rules of prophylaxis can be laid down to cover all 
contingencies, but each instance must be acted on independently, according 
to its merits, by medical officers. 

DIPHTHERIA. 

Occurrence. Diphtheria is a disease which is of somewhat rare oc- 
currence among soldiers. It is less common during active field service 
than in garrison, where it not rarely retains a foothold in old badly con- 
structed barracks for long periods, yearly outbreaks occurring during cold 
weather. The disease is relatively frequent among troops living in case- 
mates. At Fort Yates it occurred annually for a number of years, despite 
every effort toward its prevention, among soldiers quartered in old decayed 
log barracks ; while troops living in barracks of recent and more sanitary 
construction at the same post were scarcely affected. This tenacity of the 
diphtheria infection, in old buildings or those with defective plumbing, has 
often been noted. 

Figures for this disease show a somewhat lessened prevalence in our 
army as compared with those of England, France and Eussia. In the Ger- 
man army the admissions for diphtheria, per thousand strength, have been 

as follows: 

* 

Period. Admissions. 

1881-82 to 1885-86 1.2 

1886-87 to 1890-91 92 

1891-92 to 1895-96 , 93 

Year 1896-97 57 

In the Austrian army, for the year 1897, only one case occurred for 
each ten thousand men. For our own service, statistics would seem to show 
that the disease has of late years decreased in both frequency and virulence. 
Whether this is actually the case, or whether the reduction merely depends 
upon more accurate modern methods of diagnosis and treatment, is a ques- 
tion which cannot be definitely decided but it is probable that both fac- 
tors should be taken into consideration. During recent years, however, 
according to Coustan and Viry, the disease has steadily increased in the 
French army. In our own service the admissions for diphtheria since 
1860, per thousand strength, have been as follows: 

Period. Admissions. 

1861-66 (Civil War) 3.39 

1868-84 55 

1885-94 43 

1895-98 78 

Year 1897 43 

Year 1898 (Spanish War) 36 

Cause. Diphtheria is caused by a specific micro-organism, the bacil- 
lus diphtheriae. In morphology, the bacillus varies greatly according to 
the method of its growth. In diphtheritic membrane the bacilli appear as 



f,r>6 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

slender rods, straight or slightly curved. Sometimes the ends are swollen 
or clubbed, but often they are rather tapered off. There is want of uni- 
formity in the bacilli when compared side by side ; and they also stain 
irregularly, giving a dotted or beaded appearance. They do not form 
spores or liquefy gelatin, and are not motile. The bacillus grows readily 
in most of the ordinary nutrient media, especially those of feebly alkaline 
reaction that can be kept at body temperature. On blood serum, colonies 
appear within twenty-four hours, often before any other growths are visible. 
In cultures, the bacilli possess great vitality. At 37 C. they may survive 
for two months, and at room temperatures even longer. In the moist con- 
dition they are readily killed at 60 C. in a few minutes; but when dried 
they can resist a temperature of 98 C. for one hour. In the presence of 
light or moisture, the bacilli exposed to room temperature die out some- 
what more rapidly, and in cultures they 
are destroyed by direct sunlight in one- 
half to three-quarters of an hour. 

Dissemination and Infection. 
The causative agent of the disease is 
transmitted from the sick in the dis- 
charges and secretions of the affected 
surfaces. In diphtheria affecting the 
throat and fauces, the disease is trans- 
mitted chiefly through the infected 
particles of mucus or flecks of mem- 
brane which may be ejected from the 
mouth or nose by the act of coughing 
or sneezing. When the disease occurs 

F.o. aSS.-DiphtherlaB^im^romThroat. (Af- &mong thoge ^ attendence Qn the sick> 

its origination is usually brought about 

by infection in this manner. It has already been noted that the bacillus 
of diphtheria is very resistant to drying, and when dislodged from the throat 
in bits of false membrane it may retain its vitality for a long time. When 
such particles of membrane are dried and reduced to dust, infection may oc- 
cur from the inhalation of air in which such particulate matter is temporarily 
susi>ended. All clothing and other articles which have been in contact with 
the sick and upon which saliva has been allowed to dry may serve in this 
way to spread the infection. Abbott states that diphtheria bacilli have been 
found in the hair and on the shoes of nurses in a diphtheria ward also on 
brooms used in the same ward. The bacilli may be inadvertently con- 
veyed to the mouth after handling infected articles ; and, in fact, any direct 
or mediate contact with the sick offers opportunities for infection. There 
is no evidence that the disease is ever transmitted by water. Milk, specifi- 
cally infected during handling, has been known to give rise to diphtheria. 
Among the lower animals, cats may be affected with this disease. While 
the s{)eciric bacilli are capable of development on any mucous or abraded 
surface, for military purposes infection may be considered to occur through 
the mouth and nose only. The period of incubation is difficult to deter- 
mine; symptoms of invasion often appear within thirty-six hours after 
infection, but though they are rarely delayed more than four or five days 
they may be absent longer, and a quarantine of suspected cases for ten 




DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 667 

days is advisable. Convalescents from diphtheria should be regarded as 
sources of infection so long as the specific bacilli can be detected in the 
throat or secretions. The duration of infectivity appears to be, on an 
average, about thirty days, though it may be as long as three or four 
months. 

Predisposing Causes. Though widely diffused, diphtheria prevails 
chiefly in temperate and cold, damp climates. Low-lying districts, pos- 
sessing a soil retentive of moisture and rich in decaying organic matter, 
usually show a greater prevalence from diphtheria, especially if subject to 
the continued prevalence of cold winds with a high rainfall. In our ser- 
vice the disease is far less frequent in the southern garrisons. Its greatest 
incidence occurs in winter and early spring, probably largely through less 
free ventilation of barracks and the depressing influence of a vitiated 
atmosphere. The part long thought to be directly played by sewer gas in 
the production of diphtheria was undoubtedly due to accompanying in- 
fluences of the above nature. Overcrowding is a factor of great importance 
in the spread of the disease, as is also inadequate sanitary police. Epi- 
demic diphtheria, according to Klebs and others, has a well-defined rela- 
tion to manure and compost heaps, in which the germs find favorable con- 
ditions for development. From this it would seem that the disease should 
occur more frequent!}' among mounted troops, and such in fact is actually 
the case. While statistics for our own service are scarcely large enough for 
reliable comparison, it has been found by Longuet that in the French army, 
for the period 1872-85, the relative proportion of diphtheria among cavalry 
and infantry was in the ratio of 10 to 3. In the German army, 1874-82, 
diphtheria was more than three times as common among cavalry as among 
infantry. In general, persons who have been affected witli diphtheria are 
especially liable to future attacks, as are those who suffer from acute or 
chronic inflammations of the pharynx or tonsils. For our own service, it 
would appear that the colored troops are less susceptible to the diphtheritic 
infection. 

Prophylaxis. In the prevention of diphtheria the provision of dry, 
sunny, well-aired barracks, free from overcrowding, is important. No 
accumulation of filth or refuse, and particularly stable manure, should be 
permitted in the vicinity. Dampness arising from the use of too much 
water in cleansing floors should be avoided, as often producing a pharyn- 
geal or tonsillar inflammation upon which a diphtheritic infection may be 
engrafted. Laveran regards the general use of antiseptic mouth washes as 
of advantage during the prevalence of the disease. Where the disea.se has 
actually occurred, the sick should be at once isolated and all clothing, 
bedding and other articles which have been exposed to infection promptly 
removed and disinfected. The squad-room in which the affected individual 
was quartered should be disinfected. All discharges from the point of 
diphtheritic invasion should be received into a strong germicidal solution ; 
or on cloths, which are then burned. Soiled bed or body linen should be 
at once removed and disinfected before the secretions or discharges dry* upon 
them. Where this is not practicable, the soiled areas may be wet with some 
strung disinfectant solution. The floor should be frequently mopped \vith 
a similar solution ; and the hanging of a damp sheet over the door leading 
into the isolation room is of advantage. Eating utensils should be scalded 



608 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

after use and all uneaten remnants of food at once burned. On the part 
of the attendants, great care should be taken to disinfect the hands after 
each manipulation of the patient. While attending to the sick, a cotton 
mask, suspended so as to shield the nose and mouth and moistened with 
some antiseptic solution, may be woun to prevent possible infection from 
ejected mucus or membrane. Careful disinfection of the room and its con- 
tents is, of course, required after removal of tlie patient. 

Protective Inoculation. In preventing the occurrence of diphthe- 
ria in those exposed to infection, the most important prophylactic measure 
is that through which a condition of insusceptibility is conferred by the sub- 
cutaneous injection of blood-serum from an animal rendered highly immune 
to this disease. As the immunity thus produced is not permanent, lasting 
but four to six weeks, the procedure should be employed only in soldiers 
who have been presumably exposed to infection, or for the protection of such 
Hospital Corps men as are about to assume charge of diphtheria patients. 

The method of preparing this protective serum is as follows: Very 
wide, flat, loosely-stoppered flasks, containing bouillon in a layer of small 
depth, are inoculated with virulent diphtheria bacilli and incubated at 37 
C. for about three or four weeks. In order to obtain an active toxin it is 
desirable that the bacillary growth should take place in the 'form of a dense 
white pellicle on the surface of the bouillon. The bacilli are thus brought 
in contact with a free supply of oxygen, which is necessary for the best 
results ; and it is important to keep the flask undisturbed after the pellicle 
has begun to form, in order to avoid breaking up the film of bacilli. The 
latter are then destroyed by the addition of sufficient tricresol to make a 
strength of one per cent, and the solution is allowed to stand for several days ; 
the toxin solution appearing to gain in strength from the substances dis- 
solved out of the dead bodies of the bacilli. The latter are then removed 
by filtration through porcelain. Before using the toxin it is standardized, 
so that the solution of toxin, when injected in the quantity of .01 c.c. into 
a guinea-pig of 300 gm. weight, will produce death in twenty-four to thirty- 
six hours. A young, healthy, well-nourished horse, which has been pre- 
viously tested for glanders and tuberculosis with mallein and tuberculin, 
and which has been given careful attention in the matter of food, water 
and sanitary surroundings, is then given a subcutaneous injection of 1 c.c. 
of the standardized toxin solution. Following the injection of the toxin 
there are irritability and elevation of temperature, lasting about three days. 
After a few days of normal temperature a second and somewhat larger dose 
is given, and the process is repeated with rapidly increasing doses until in 
from ten to twelve weeks the animal is receiving an injection of 300 c.c. 
of the toxin solution with impunity. A small amount of blood is then 
withdrawn and the serum tested as to the amount of antitoxin it may con- 
tain. This is done by simultaneously injecting a guinea-pig with .1 c.c. of 
standardized toxin (ten times the fatal dose or " toxic unit ") and a given 
quantity of the serum under trial. The minimum quantity of the speci- 
men serum which will prevent a lethal result under these conditions is 
said to contain an "antitoxic unit." If the serum does not come up to a 
certain strength of antitoxic power, the horse is subjected to the injection 
of toxin for a farther period, and after a time the trial is repeated. When 
the antitoxic strength becomes satisfactory, the blood is drawn through a 






DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 669 

cannula passed into the jugular vein and is received into large flasks capa- 
ble of holding about 1.5 liters. When filled, these flasks are transferred to 
an ice-safe or cooling room, where they remain for "about twenty-four to 
thirty-six hours, sheltered from light, until complete coagulation has taken 
place. The serum is then drawn off by pipettes. 'About 8 liters of 
horse's blood will, as a rule, yield about 3.5 liters of clear serum. After 
determining the antitoxic strength of the serum, a small amount of carbolic 
acid or tricresol is added as a preservative and the fluid placed in sterile 
bottles ; the label thereon stating the amount of serum, number of antitoxic 
units and date of production. 

The antitoxic strength of the serum appears to vary according to the 
animal from which it is produced. Sera for commercial purposes vary 
greatly in potency and their strength is often over-rated. In serum-therapy, 
as in other classes of medication, an absolute knowledge of the doses em- 
ployed is of the first importance. In general, for military use, the serum 
should be so standardized as to contain 100 antitoxic units per cubic cen- 
timeter. To produce more concentrated sera requires greater care, a longer 
period of inoculation and smaller and less frequent bleedings. 

For immunization of those exposed to the infection of diphtheria, an in- 
jection of serum containing 400 to 500 antitoxic units is sufficient. 

DYSENTERY. 

Occurrence. Of all the diseases to which troops are subject on active 
service, especially in hot climates, dysentery is one of the most formidable 
and important; and this almost equally on account of its frequency, its 
severity, the difficulty of its treatment and its proportionately high mor- 
tality. The disease is one which is peculiarly favored by camp life. 

History gives many instances in which dysentery has prevailed epi- 
demically among troops. It made frightful ravages in the army of Xerxes, 
in 480 B.C. ; and it is recorded that in the invasion of Italy by Theodebert 
in the year 538, one-third of his force died of this disease, compelling a 
retreat. The army of Henry IV. was reduced three-fourths of its effective 
strength before the battle of Agincourt through an epidemic of this disease. 
In 1773, hah* the English army at Hanau had dysentery, which decreased 
on the abandonment of the camp; and the same occurred in 1778 in the 
army of Prince William of Hesse. In 1787, the French army introduced 
an epidemic of this disease among the civil population of Mayence. In 
1793 it ravaged the French army in Italy, and in 1812 in Poland. In 
Egypt, Napoleon lost more men from dysentery than from the plague which 
occurred at the same time. It prevailed largely during the Crimean War ; 
and Laveran states that in three months there were treated, in the hospitals 
at Constantinople, 9,919 cases of diarrhoeal disease chiefly dysentery, of 
which 15 per cent, proved fatal. Before Metz, in 1870, it was one of the 
greatest causes of mortality in the besieged army. In the military opera- 
tions in our own country, it prevailed in the French War of 1756, while 
during the Revolution it became epidemic in the trenches before Boston. 
It was most extensive and fatal during the Seminole War in 1836 ; and 
the same was the case during the war with Mexico. During the Civil 
War period, July, 1861, to June 30th, 1866, the average rate of admissions 



670 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

for dysentery, per thousand strength, was 120.88; the death rate for the 
same cause and period was 3.67. While the admission rate varied but 
little during these years, the mortality steadily increased ; the death rate per 
thousand strength for this cause being 1.64 in 1861-62 and 6.31 in 1865- 
66. Since the Civil War, the frequency of its occurrence in our service is 
shown by the following figures : 



Period. 


Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 


Deaths per 
1,000 strength. 


Period. 


'Admissions per 
1.000 strength. 


Deaths per 
1,000 strength. 


1^<5,S_S4 


29 04 


0.59 


1868-98 


19.91 


0.45 


1885 94 


6 52 


10 


Year 1897.. .. 


2.39 




1895-96 


12 05 


.68 


Year 1898 


28.09 


1.86 















The rates for dysentery in foreign armies during time of peace, like those 
until recently obtaining in our own service, are low. Among the British 
troops stationed in the United Kingdom during the decade 1888-97, the 
admissions per thousand strength amounted to .5, the deaths to .2. For the 
year 1898 the admissions amounted to .7 and the deaths to .03. The oc- 
currence of dysentery in the German army is shown by the following rates : 



Period. 



Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 

18S1-83 to 1885-86 1.4 

1886-87 to 1890-91 24 

1891-92 to 1895-96 . . .31 . 



Period. 



Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 

Year 1894-95 0.25 

Year 1895-96 57 

Year 1896-97.. .10 



The milder cases are not taken into hospital in the German army and do 
not figure in the above rates. 

In the Austrian and Russian armies the rates of admission, per thou- 
sand strength, have been as follows: 



Year. 


Austrian army. 


Russian army. 


Year. 


Austrian army. 


Russian army. 


1892 


4 1 


34 


1895 


1 2 


2 3 


1893 


1.8 


2 1 


1896 


8 


1 6 


1894 


1.3 


2 


1897 


6 


1 7 















The case mortality in the Russian and Austrian armies during the 
above period was twice as high as in our own military service or in those 
of England and Germany. 

No single point more clearly shows the value of modern military hygiene 
and sanitation than the great and progressive reduction of the rates for dys- 
entery which has occurred in all armies in the last two score years. Not 
only has the proportion of admissions been largely decreased but the case 
mortality has been reduced to an even greater degree. For our own army 
the improvement as well as the favoring influence of field service on the 
occurrence of this disease is well shown in the accompanying chart ; for 
the French army in Algeria it is stated by Coustan that, in 1847-48 % out 
of every 1,000 deaths from all causes, 403 were from diarrhoea and dysen- 
tery, chiefly the latter, while for the period 1867-78 this disease occa- 
sioned but 72 deaths out of each 1,000 and the rate has fallen progres- 
sively since that time. 

Cause. The dysenteric condition, as far as present knowledge goes, 
appears to be due to several different exciting causes. First, a tropical form 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



671 



directly due to an amoeba; second, various diphtheritic and catarrhal forms 
without amoebae, apparently produced by bacteria of different kinds, but 



I 



Fit) 329. Admissions for Dysentery in the United States Army, per Thousand Strength, for the Period 

18B1 8, Exc-ludlnR the Year 1867. 

the nature of which has not been fully investigated. This form is* rarely 
fatal. Third, the Japanese form of dysentery as first investigated by Ogata. 
In many instances there appears to be an infection of dysentery engrafted 
on a previously existing diarrhoea, and this is nowhere more frequently ob- 
served than among troops during field service. On the other hand, it is 
probable that the specific cause of dysentery is often introduced into the 
system without giving rise to the disease ; it being only when the resistive 
powers of the mucous membrane are 
impaired by other causes that it be- 
comes vulnerable to attack. 

The amoebie coli, as seen in the 
stools of a case of dysentery, are 
rounded or somewhat irregular proto- 
plasmic masses, usually measuring .012 
to .035 mm. in diameter, though larger 
forms are met with. The amoeba has 
an enveloping ectosarc of clear material 
and an endosarc of granular protoplasm. 
It possesses a homogeneous, refractive 

nucleus, and usually several vacuoles are to be seen in its protoplasmic body. 
Sometimes it contains red corpuscles which appear to undergo digestive li- 
quefaction and also bacteria. The amoebae break down with some rapidity 
outside the body, and examination of dysenteric stools twenty-four hours after 
being passed usually fails to detect any of them. They were once thought 
to have been successfully cultivated in hay infusions, but it is now recog- 
nized that the results obtained were erroneous. In the stools they are most 





Fio. 330. Amo3b of Dysentery, a and b show 
amupbn> as swn In fresh stools ; c shown an 
amu'lia in llxed film preparation. (Alter 
Muirand Hltcliif.) 



(572 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

numerous in the small grayish-yellow collections of pus. They are less 
frequent in the blood-stained mucus, and are rare in the greenish masses of 
detritus. On a warm slide, these organisms show active movements. The 
amoebae frequently penetrate into the intestine ; being found in the mucous 
membrane when ulcers are being formed, and sometimes making their way 
into the submucous and muscular coats. In tropical abscess of the liver 
the amoebic are usually to be detected, and not infrequently are the only 
organisms present. It is unknown in what form the organism survives 
outside the body and leads to the propagation of the disease. If it pos- 
sesses the qualities common to other amoebae, it is quite probable, that 
conditions are found in both water and soil, especially damp and marshy 
soils, which favor its existence and development. 

In investigating an epidemic of dysentery in which amoebae could not be 
found, Ogata observed in the discharges, but especially in sections of the 
affected tissue, enormous numbers of small bacilli, sometimes in practically 
pure cultures. These bacilli he regarded as the cause of the disease, and his 
work has been confirmed by Shiga, Flexner, Strong and others. The spe- 
cific bacilli vary in their morphology with the nutrient medium used. 
On agar cultures they appear as short rods, and not rarely in pairs ; in old 
bouillon cultures the rods are very much longer. The organism presents 
no capsule, forms no spores and possesses no flageUa. Staining is read- 
ily accomplished by ordinary methods, the bacillus being decolorized by 
Gram's method. It can be cultivated on the usual media at room temper- 
ature ; it does not liquefy gelatin nor does it coagulate milk. Litmus milk 
is slightly reddened after twenty-four hours. The bacillus is pathogenic 
for rats, mice and rabbits when injected subcutaneously ; but when injected 
into the rectum it does not produce dysentery in the lower animals. 

Predisposing Causes. Dysentery occurs both endemically and epi- 
demically in all climates. For the decade 1888-97, the admissions for this 
disease, among British soldiers in India, China, Straits Settlements, Ceylon, 
West Indies, Egypt and Cyprus, and Mauritius, amounted to an average of 
15.17 per thousand, while for the United Kingdom they were .5, and for 
Canada .1 per thousand. In our own army, for the fourteen months, May, 
1898, to June, 1899, inclusive, the deaths from diarrhoea and dysentery are 
given as 1.3 per thousand of troops serving in the United States; 5.69 for 
those serving in Cuba; 2.08 for those in Porto Eico and 2.48 for those sta- 
tioned in the Pacific Islands. For the last six months of 1897 the admis- 
sions for dysentery in the Spanish army in Cuba amounted to 72 per thousand 
strength; the death rate to 10 per thousand strength. In temperate cli- 
mates, summer is the season when this disease, like all diarrhoeal affections, 
prevails to the greatest extent ; in the tropics it occurs most frequently at 
the close of the rainy season. Few facts in connection with the relation 
between dysentery and climate or season are more clear than those which 
indicate the influence of vicissitudes of temperature and exposure to chill- 
ing in determining attacks. The reduction of dysentery in the French 
army has been thought to be due, to some extent, to the provision of conve- 
niences which render unnecessary the chilling of the soldiers at night while 
attending to the calls of nature. Dysentery, though occasionally occurring 
in dry places, manifests a decided preference for damp and water-logged 
soils. Of great importance in its epidemic occurrence is the saturation of the 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 673 

site of the camp or post with organic and jiarticularly fa-cal material. The 
terrible epidemics of former times undoubtedly resulted chiefly from long 
occupancy of camp sites, resulting in fouling of both the soil and water. 
All cachectic states of the constitution i>owerfully predispose to dysentery. 
Scurvy and malaria are no exceptions to this rule, and the latter gives rise 
to a form of the disease jieculiarly resistant to treatment. Fatigue, expo- 
sure, hardship and anxiety also appear to have no small influence in deter- 
mining its occurrence. A faulty dietary, especially as found in insufficient, 
coarse or improperly cooked food, green or over-ripe fruits, an excess of salt 
meats, or the over-use of alcoholics, notoriously favors dysentery. These 
points were particularly well illustrated by the happy change in the condition 
of the British army in the Crimea, in respect to the prevalence of dysentery, 
as soon as its wants as to diet, shelter and clothing were properly satisfied. 

A large number of outbreaks of dysentery have occurred during the 
prevalence of typhoid fever, the development of both apparently Ijeing fa- 
vored by the same general conditions. Several striking illustrations of this 
fact have lately been recorded among our troops in the Philip} lines. 

Dysentery is particularly liable to affect young soldiers, through their 
disregard of matters of hygiene and probably greater individual susceptibil- 
ity. Tripler states that during the war with Mexico the death rate from 
dysentery was twice as high in the newly raised troops as in the old army. 
Negro troops appear esjiecially liable to contract dysentery. In our own 
service, for the decade 1879-88, the relative rates per thousand strength 
were as follows: 

Admissions. Deaths. 

White troops 18.65 0.20 

Colored troops 29.65 .82 

In the British forces stationed in the West Indies, for the decade 1888-97, 
the rates for dysentery among European troops, per thousand strength, were 
6.9 for admissions and .33 for deaths. For the same period, the rates for the 
native negro troops were respectively 16.8 and .44. Coustan, on the other 
hand, notes an immunity to this disease among the natives of northern Africa, 
citing an instance where "a French column in Algeria suffered severely, 
while the native Arab followers, who set every law of hygiene at defiance, 
escaped sickness." From the greater care which they are able to give 
themselves, and to their greater attention to sanitary detail, officers are 
much less liable to contract dysentery than are enlisted men. 

Method of Infection. The commonest recognized portal of infection 
is the mouth, the specific exciting cause of the disease gaining entrance in 
contaminated water or on uncooked foods. Experiments show that infec- 
tion can occur through the rectum, but this is probably a rare mode in 
human beings. The instances in which outbreaks of dysentery have been 
traced to the use of impure water, particularly that contaminated with fa-eal 
matter, are very numerous ; and of all causes contributing to the occurrence 
of this disease, that of impure water is the most important. In most in- 
stances, this fluid merely serves as a vehicle for the introduction of the spe- 
cific cause into the system, but it may at times have a predisposing influ- 
ence through its irritative action on the bowel. 

Prieur has reported an epidemic of three hundred and fifteen cases of 
dysentery occurring in 1891 in a small garrison in the French army, which 
* 



674 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

he regards as directly traceable to the use of the common latrine by the first 
patient, who, as the affection became more advanced, was unable to keep 
from voiding his discharges on the floor and seats. No other case appeared 
until six days after the tirst case was well developed. He believes that the 
subsequent infections were directly due to the dysenteric discharges being 
mixed with the dirt on the floor of the latrine and then being carried into 
barracks on the shoes of the soldiers. The food of the latter was then con- 
taminated with this infectious material ; a result rendered very possible by 
the absence of mess-rooms in French barracks and the fact that the soldiers 
usually sit on stairways or on the floors of halls or barrack-rooms while 
eating their food. 

Prophylaxis. This is dependent on the etiology. All drinking- 
water should be protected from contamination, and when open to the slight- 
est suspicion should be sterilized by heat. It is well to keep in mind that 
if pure water be not provided in a hot climate, the men will get it from 
any source, however impure. Food should be carefully watched in respect 
to its sufficiency, quality and the thoroughness of its cooking. When an 
outbreak of the disease threatens, all raw fruits and vegetables should be 
excluded from the diet; and, if possible, hard bread and beans, which are 
difficult of digestion and hence irritating to the intestinal canal. Chilling, 
especially of the abdomen, should be avoided, and the use of the flannel 
band may, become advisable. The camp site should be dry and well 
drained. If the disease appears with any severity, the camp should be 
promptly moved without waiting for further developments. Instances have 
been known where regiments were affected with dysentery every time they 
encamped on a certain space, and old camping grounds notoriously favor 
the occurrence of this disease. The camp should be carefully policed to 
limit the fly plague, and the contents of trench latrines disinfected and 
covered twice daily. If possible, the excreta should be burned. Any part 
of the latrines liable to be soiled with ejections should be disinfected twice 
daily with suitable solutions. Great care should be taken to prevent' con- 
tamination of the water supply with fecal matter, either from the location 
of the latrines or from uncleanly habits on the part of troops. Dysenteric 
patients should preferably be removed from the locality in which the dis- 
ease was contracted ; this being an important factor in securing recovery in 
many cases. Inasmuch as dysentery occasionally spreads in hospitals where 
large numbers of such cases are under treatment, the necessity of free ven- 
tilation, abundant air space and the prompt disinfection of the stools, bed- 
pans, commodes and enema-tubes are matters of the first importance. It is 
essential that during an outbreak of dysentery all men affected with diar- 
rhoeal symptoms should at once report for treatment for the same. 

ENTERIC OR TYPHOID FEVKR. 

Occurrence. The history of enteric or typhoid fever, as a disease of 
soldiers, extends over a period of scarcely fifty years ; it having been previ- 
ously confused with several other affections. About half a century ago, 
the disease was differentiated from typhus fever by Murchison ; both pre- 
viously being classed together by medical officers as " spotted fever," and 
undoubtedly much of the fatality which, prior to this time, had been re- 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 675 

garded as due to typhus was in reality due to typhoid infection. For a 
long time, no distinction was made between enteric fever and the continued 
malarial fevers. Shortly before and during the Civil War, however, medi- 
cal officers were forced to recognize the different characteristics of typical 
cases of these diseases, and about the same time the term " typho-malarial " 
was adopted to cover that class of cases which, while they presented some 
of the clinical symptoms of both diseases, were apparently identical with 
neither. Later, the fact that most of these cases of " typho-malarial " fever 
were in reality typhoid infections was strongly suspected ; but it was not 
until Laveran, of the French army, discovered the malarial parasite that 
the differentiation between enteric and malarial fevers was definitely made. 
In the French army, the official recognition of the existence of a disease 
intermediate between malaria and typhoid was withdrawn in 1888, and 
about the same time the term " typho-malarial " was discontinued in our 
own medical nomenclature. This example has since been followed in all 
the more important armies, and military statistics for this disease, for the 
past ten years, may be regarded as much more accurate. In the Russian 
army, however, even as late as 1897, no small proportion of the continued 
fevers were classed as " undetermined " in nature. It is obvious, therefore, 
from the difficulty whieh has until recently existed in the recognition of 
typhoid fever, that statistics for the periods prior to the past decade are of 
little value for purposes of comparison between different armies and even 
for the same service they are not free from error. For our own army, it 
may safely be assumed, from a better knowledge of the nature of the 
typhoid infection, that cases which have been recorded as "typho-malarial " 
were in reality chiefly cases of enteric fever. In a few instances, however, 
the typhoid and malarial infections appear to be present at the same time. 
Typhoid fever, at the present time, is by far the most important disease 
affecting soldiers. While it prevails to some extent among troops in gar- 
rison, it is among soldiers in the field, and especially those in camps of 
more or less permanency, that it makes its greatest ravages. This fact 
depends merely upon the greater difficulty of properly disposing of the 
excretions of the human body under the latter circumstances. In this 
country, as in all temperate or tropical regions, enteric fever is so prevalent 
and its specific cause so widely disseminated that no encampment of any size 
or permanency can be expected to remain free from its infection. Thus in 
the camps of our army, during the war with Spain, not a single regiment 
of those composing six army corps escaped infection. .According to the 
board appointed to investigate the epidemics of typhoid fever during this 
war, more than twenty thousand cases of this disease occurred among our 
troops encamped within the limits of the United States during the summer 
of 1898 ; nearly all the regular troops and ninety per cent, of the volunteer 
regiments developed typhoid fever within eight weeks after going into camp 
some as early as three weeks and in the northern quite as much as in 
the southern parts of the country. This condition, far from being unusu- 
al, is what has commonly prevailed in the past among troops of all nations 
on active service ; and Davies gives a number of instances of early epi- 
demics occurring in successive British military expeditions. The recent 
Anglo-Boer War in South Africa was no exception to this rule. It has 
been repeatedly observed, especially in the camps of 1898, that while 



r,76 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

troops in camp are heavily scourged, the surrounding civil population may 
remain wholly unaffected. The conclusion is inevitable that the conditions 
ordinarily found in military encampments, or governing troops in the field, 
are extremely favorable to the propagation of this disease ; this fact being 
abundantly demonstrated by figures for our own service. During the Civil 
War period, 1861-66, the admissions for typhoid and " typho-malarial " 
fevers amounted to 57.71 per thousand strength, while for the sixteen years 
following the war, 1868-84, the admissions for the same cause were only 
6.29 per thousand strength. Again, in 1898, during the war with Spain, 
the admissions for typhoid fever were reported as amounting to 88.55 per 
thousand strength , while the board which investigated the epidemics of the 
disease which occurred during that year, and which critically reviewed the 
official records, states its belief that these official figures should be raised 
to 192.65. During the year 1897 the admissions amounted to 6.25, and 
during the decade 1885-94 they were only 5.51 per thousand strength. 



FIG. 331. Admissions for Typhoid and " Typho-Malarial" Fevers, per Thousand Strength, occurring 
in the United States Army during the Period 1861-98, excluding the Year 1867. 

Throughout the period of peace 1868-97, the rates for typhoid fever 
showed no very great variation except for the years 1882 and 1883, 
when sharp localized outbreaks of the disease occurred, and for the years 
1874 and 1875, when the rates fell much below the normal. Of late years 
the disease has shown a tendency to become more prevalent, in spite of the 
much improved sanitary conditions under which the soldier now lives. It 
is possible that the comparatively recent reduction in the period of enlist- 
ment, from five to three years, through the greater proportion of more 
susceptible material in the army which is thus brought about, has had an 
effect in neutralizing sanitary improvements as far as their influence on 
enteric fever has been concerned. The relative prevalence of typhoid fever 
in our service since the year' 18 60, together with the remarkable increase 
induced by camp life, is shown by the above diagram. 

During time of peace, the mortality from typhoid is not high in our 
army as compared with that for the country at large. For the year 1896 
the death rate was .48 per thousand ; this being lower than the typhoid 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



677 



mortality rates in most of our large cities, as Washington, Chicago, Pitts- 
burg and Philadelphia, notwithstanding the greater susceptibility of men 
of the military age to this disease. In the French army, however, Coustan 
states that the relative amount of sickness due to typhoid fever is five or 
six times greater than among the civilian population. Brouardel showed 
that for 183 French towns, for the period 1886-90, the death rate from 
typhoid fever for all ages of the civil class was .56 per thousand; in young 
men 20 to 25 years of age the proportion of deaths was .72 per thousand, 
where Viry estimated the true army mortality at 2.6 and Marvaud at 
2.1 per thousand. During time of j)eace there has been no great epidemic 
of this disease in our army ; the highest rates of admission being given in 
the years 1882 and 1883, when the admissions per thousand, for the entire 
army, amounted to 11.23 and 15.06 respectively. The rates are undoubt- 
edly kept low through the fact that our troops have in the past been scat- 
tered in small commands over a large area, and that the infection of an 
individual water-supply was therefore not able to aflect a large number of 
troops at once, as is often the case in foreign armies. A considerable pro- 
portion of those exposed to the typhoid infection have at times contracted 
the disease. Viry and Coustan cite epidemics in the French army, in 
1875, in which 10 per cent, of those exposed contracted the disease at 
Naiily, 18 per cent, at' Saratory and 25 per cent, at Brest. In 1889, of 
the troops at Dinau, 60 per cent, contracted typhoid during a single epi- 
demic. The board which investigated this disease during the war with 
Spain concluded that not less than one-fifth of all the troops located at the 
camps of mobilization had suffered from typhoid fever, either in recognized 
or unrecognized forms. It also stated that in all probability the deaths due 
to typhoid fever amounted to more than eighty per cent, of the mortality 
from all diseases during that period. 

With regard to the occurrence of typhoid fever in foreign armies, Cous- 
tan gives the rates in the French army as follows : 





Admission* per 
1,UOO Mrvnirtli. 


Deaths per 
1,000 strength. 




Admissions per 
1.000 strength. 


Deaths per 
l.mi strength. 


Before 1888 


From 12-81 


2.5 


1891 


10.77 


1.95 


1888 


13.2 


1.7 


1H92 


12.12 


1.54 


1889 


11.6 


1.6 


1898 


9.59 




1890 


10.5 


1.71 





















Before the year 1888, typhoid fevers and continued fevers were classed 
together. Up to 1893, typhoid was the cause of about one-third of all the 
deaths occurring in the French army. Marvaud gives the case mortality 
in this disease, for the period 1878-90, as about sixteen per cent. 

In the German army reports the rates of admission and death for 
typhoid fever, per thousand strength, are given as follows: 



Period. 


Admissions 
per l.OUO strength. 


Deaths 
per 1.000 strength. 


1881-82 to 1885-86 


5.6 


0.46 


1886-87 to 1890-91 


8.6 


M 


1891-92 to 1895-96 


20 


.21 


Year 1895-96 


1.7 


.19 


Year 1896-97 


1.8 


.16 









678 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



The small proportion of cases of this disease, together with the reduction 
in rates which has steadily taken place, shows most forcibly the admirable 
sanitary condition of the German army. 

In the Russian and Austrian armies, the admission rates have of late 
years been as follows : 



Year. 


Russian 
army, per 
1,000 strength. 


Austrian 
army, per 
1,000 strength. 


Year. 


Russian 
army, per 
1,000 strength. 


Austrian 
army, per 
1,000 strength. 


1890 


9.6 




1894. . . . 


6.7 


3.7 


1891 


7.9 




1895 


7.7 


3.1 


1892 


7.6 


6.7 


1896 


7.9 


35 


1893 


7.2 


14 


1897 


8.4 


3-8 















In 1897, the death rate for the Russian army from typhoid fever was 1.37 
per thousand strength. 

The admission rates for the British army, at home and on foreign ser- 
vice, is given elsewhere in this section. In the Spanish army, according 
to Coustan, the admission rate for the year 1886 was 12 per thousand. 

For the Italian army, the mortality from typhoid has recently been as 
follows : 



Year. 
1893 


Death per 1,000 
strength. 
. 1 12 


1894 


. .. 84 


1895 


1 15 


1896 


1 10 


1897 . . 


.98 



In the Belgian army, for 1898, the death rate from typhoid was .28 
per thousand strength. 

Cause. Typhoid fever is caused by an invasion of the organism by a 
specific microbe the bacillus typhosus. This is a short, flagellated bacil- 
lus, actively motile in liquid media and not forming spores. It does not 
liquefy gelatin. It presents a very close resemblance, both in structure and 
habits, to the bacillus coli communis ; from which, however, it is specifi- 
cally distinct. It may be readily cultivated in the usual media, in which 
it multiplies freely. It flourishes best in the presence of oxygen at about 
37 C., and ceases to grow below 9 C. or above 42 C. It does not pos- 
sess the property, possessed by the colon bacillus, of fermenting glucose, 
nor of producing indol as a product of its growth in ordinary nutrient me- 
dia. It does not coagulate milk. On the surface of gelatin plates the 
colonies have a translucent, filmy appearance, with irregular outline, thin 
at the margin and thick and less translucent at the center. Those grow- 
ing in the depths appear as dots, whitish in reflected and brownish in 
transmitted light. Grown on potato it appears as a transparent film. It is 
readily destroyed by a few moments' exposure to the boiling point or half an 
hour's exposure to 60 C. Neither freezing nor the intense cold of 'lique- 
fied air (310 F.) destroys it. The bacillus maintains its vitality in 
water, either fresh or salt, for a considerable time, but does not multiply in 
water to any extent. Westcott, however, reports an epidemic in which the 
disease appeared to be produced by water from an infected well which had 
been closed for twenty months. It maintains its vitality for many weeks 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



f,79 




FIG. 332 Typhoid Bacilli, Show- 

inir SOIMI- Filament. .11* Konns. 
(After Muirand Kltcble.) 



when mixed with sand or earth and partially dried, and may then be blown 
about as dust. Complete desiccation destroys the bacillus in a short time, 
but it may long retain its vitality in relatively dry material Uttelmann 
showed that layers 4 mm. thick might live thirty- 
two days on wood, sixty days on linen and eighty 
days on woolen fabrics. The longevity of ty- 
phoid bacilli in soil has been discussed to some ex- 
tent in connection with the subject of camp sites, 
and their great vitality in organically polluted 
soil noted. A recent experiment, with reference 
to this point, may here be mentioned. Samples 
of dirt were obtained by Martin from various 
sources ; some from localities where it was known 
that the soil was largely contaminated with or- 
ganic matter and where typhoid fever had been 
endemic, while others were obtained from places which had not been contam- 
inated by sewage or in any other way. These samples of soil were pulver- 
ized, placed in flasks and sterilized, after which they were inoculated with 
cultures of the typhoid bacillus. It was found that the typhoid bacillus 
grew luxuriantly in the polluted earth, and that flasks containing such 
soil showed active growths of this micro-organism after the lapse of one 
hundred and five days. The results obtained with the unpolluted earth 
were quite different; in these soils the germ not only failed to multiply, 
but after a short time it died out. The necessity for careful policing of the 
camp site, together with removal of the camp to fresh ground at frequent 
periods, is thus obvious. 

Exposure to diffuse light greatly impairs the vitality of the bacillus, and 
direct sunlight destroys it. Unfortunately, when present in typhoid stools 
the latter are not spread out in a thin sheet where sunlight would have its full 
effect. When cultivated in artificial media, the bacillus rapidly loses its viru- 
lence, which can be restored and intensified to the 
highest pitch by successively passing it through 
the peritoneal cavities of susceptible animals. 

Elimination of Infectious Material by 
the Sick. It has long been recognized that the 
fiscal discharges of typhoid patients contained 
the specific bacillus and were a potent factor in 
the dissemination of the disease. The enteric 
bacilli, however, are not usually found in the 
stools earlier than the seventh day although the 
latter are probably infective during the incubation 
period and certainly during the onset of the dis- 
ease and they ordinarily disappear soon after convalescence is established. 
In some cases, however, they have been found as late as forty-one days 
after defervescence. The stools appear to gain in infectivity for several 
days after discharge from the sick person, but the reasons for this increase 
in virulence are not as yet understood. 

The elimination of typhoid bacilli by the kidneys affords a ready means 
of spread which has not sufficiently engaged the attention of medical offi- 
cers; and in considering the cause and spread of typhoid fever in military 




FlO. SB.- Typhoid BaHlH, Stained 
to Show Kiwi la. 



080 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ramps this mode of dissemination is too often overlooked. Enormous 
numbers of the bacilli are frequently, though apparently not invariably, 
present in the urine. When they do occur, it is late in the disease or 
during convalescence. In thirty -eight cases, Richardson found the bacilli 
present in nine ; always in large numbers and practically in pure cultures. 
They appeared only in the later stages of the disease and persisted far into 
convalescence. Smith found them present in three out of seven cases 
examined by him, and observed that they may be present in sufficient 
numlters to render the urine turbid. Petruschky found typhoid bacilli in 
urine two months after the temperature had become normal, and calculated 
that in one instance the urine contained 170,000,000 typhoid germs in each 
cubic centimeter. In many cases the urine during convalescence has been 
found to be swarming with typhoid bacilli, while none could be detected in 
the faeces. In certain instances, this condition has been found to persist for 
} ears. Richardson has reported an old case of cystitis in which the bacil- 
lus was found in pure culture in the urine five 
years after the attack, and similar results have 
been obtained by Houston and others. Horton- 
Smith found that the specific bacilli are present 
in the urine in apparently one-fourth of the 
cases of the disease, and that, when present, they 
occur in far greater numbers than in the feces. 
In comparing the two as to the most dangerous 
and frequent cause of the disease, he concludes 
that this is " the urine and this partly on ac- 

Fi(J.:4. Typhoid Bacilli In Frlne ,. ., , cu -n- u- i 

of convalescent, after a Relapse count or the enormous numbers or bacilli which 

peratinv hiSVernianwuiy^ may occur in it, and partly on account of the 

3u omal< UfU?r Hort n " excretion itself. Thus the stools by their color 

and odor at once attract attention, so that the 

slightest soiling of the linen is at once noticed and the damage rectified, 
but the same cannot be said of the urine." It can readily be understood 
how a convalescent from typhoid, prematurely returned to duty, could in- 
fect the soil of his company camp by urine surreptitiously passed at night ; 
where such contamination by fecal matter would scarcely be possible, and 
if it occurred would be readily recognized and measures promptly taken to 
limit its evil effects. 

It has recently been questioned whether the sputum in typhoid fever 
may not be infectious. Investigation on this point by Williams and others 
has given positive results in a number of instances. How early and how 
frequently the bacilli appear, and how long they may persist, are matters 
which have not as yet been determined. 

Methods of Dissemination Among Troops. The typhoid bacillus 
undoubtedly obtains entrance into the system by being swallowed, either 
with the water or food, by drawing into the mouth or pharynx the germs 
suspended in the air or by placing some specifically contaminated object 
in the former. 

In the epidemics of towns or large garrisons, water usually serves as 
the vehicle for the infective agent; but in camp there are many modes of 
infection, and in the typhoid epidemics of 1898 contaminated water was 
one of the least important factors. Vaughan says : " There probably were 




DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 

local water supplies that became specifically infected with the typhoid-fever 
bacillus, but infected water was not the great factor in the causation of this 
disease " and this opinion will be shared by those who had experience in 
field service during the period named. At Jacksonville, Lexington and 
Knoxville the troops used the same water-supply as the civil population, 
yet the military class had typhoid and the other did not. At Jacksonville 
there were only a few sporadic cases in the city, while in the adjoining 
camp, with about the same population, the admissions were sixty or seventy 
per day. In Knoxville not a case occurred among the citixens at a time when 
there were hundreds of cases among the soldiers encamped near by. In time 
of peace, however, the part played by drinking-water, in the occurrence of 
typhoid, is very great. Instances might be multiplied indefinitely to prove 
this point, and among these instances perhaps the best examples have oc- 
curred in the military service and particularly in the French army. For 
the year 1886, among the French troops, the number of cases of typhoid fever 
amounted to somewhat over 14 per thousand strength. In 1894, these had 
been reduced to slightly less than 6 per thousand strength ; the result being 
obtained by an almost progressive yearly decrease. In 1895, the Minister 
of War reported that in 29 garrisons formerly extremely subject to typhoid 
fever, in each of which an uncontaminated supply of drinking-water had 
leen provided, there had followed an almost total disappearance of this 
disease and the few isolated cases which occurred were shown to have 
originated outside the barracks. In those cases in which a new water-sup- 
ply had l>een provided and the water was drunk unfiltered, epidemics fol- 
lowed from time to time on the contamination of the source and disap- 
peared after the introduction of Pasteur filters. At Avesnes, after the 
installation of these filters, 105 cases in 1891 became, for the next three 
years, only 1 annually. At Auxerre, 129 cases in 1892 were reduced to 
1 each iii 1893 and 1894. At Melun, 122 cases in 1899 fell to an 
average of 7.4 for the following five years. At this last post, in February, 
1895, 28 dragoons were suddenly attacked, the infantry battalion in the 
same garrison not having a case. Investigation showed that the filters 
had lieen allowed to freeze and the soldiers had been ordered to drink only 
the weak infusion of tea, in which the water had been boiled, furnished 
them. The dragoons had not obeyed and had helped themselves to 
water from the hydrants. At Cherbourg, with a previous annual aver- 
age of 114.5 cases, the installation of Pasteur filters in 1890 reduced 
the cases to 28, 8, 11,3 and 3 in the succeeding years. At Dinau, with a 
previous annual average of 278 cases, the installation of Pasteur filters in 
1890 reduced the number of cases to 1, 2, 3 and 1 respectively, during the 
next four years. At Lorient, before 1890, there was a yearly average of 
170 cases of typhoid fever among the garrison. In 1890, filters were set 
up, with the result of a decrease to 58 in that year while the cases during 
the three following years numbered 2, 1 and 1 respectively. In 1894, water 
was brought into the liarracks of this garrison from a spring supposed to be 
pure, and 11 cases of typhoid shortly appeared. On examination, the water 
was found to be contaminated and upon its disuse the disease practically 
ceased to exist among the garrison. Viry states that of 194 epidemics of 
typhoid fever occurring in garrisons of the French army during the period 
January 1st, 1887, to January 1st, 1890, no less than 187 of them could be 



682 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

directly associated with a "defective, doubtful, mediocre or infected water- 
supply." Many instances of the relation of typhoid fever to drinking- 
water of bad quality have occurred in our own army ; thus at Jefferson 
Barracks the typhoid which prevailed eudemically at that station greatly 
diminished when a purer supply was substituted. 

Except in rare instances, examination of a water-supply during an epi- 
demic of typhoid has failed to reveal the specific germ of this disease ; it 
has, however, usually determined the presence of the bacillus coli communis, 
showing the probability of infection with typhoid discharges. In character, 
an epidemic of typhoid due to a single infection of the supply of drinking- 
water will be marked by the suddenness of the outbreak and the simultaneous 
occurrence of a large number of cases. The accompanying diagram gives 
a typical illustration of the course of a water-borne epidemic. As in most 
places the water-supply soon regains its purity, no increase subsequently 
in the number of cases may be anticipated unless a second infection of the 



NunVwt 


























.X8 


H 


'- 


































U 
Civ,. 






















r \ 


7N-HS 
























,1 


u 


J^ 


V 










24 
































































23 
































































22 
































































21 
































































70 
































































1 
































































IS 
































































17 
































































> 
































































































































































































































































. 


























































































































































































































1 
































































































































[ n 






































































































































































i... . 
























































































1 
































































1 
























































I 




1 




1 












1 


1 


































1 






| 


1 


| 


1 


I 


I 




| 






| 


1 


| 








| 








1 






1 





Fio. 335. Typical Water-Borne Epidemic of Typhoid Fever, Occurring Among the Troops at Wittenberg* 

Germany. (After Gaffky.) 

water-supply occurs. In typhoid spread by other means than water, as in 
camp epidemics, the onset of the epidemic is gradual. With each case, 
additional sources of infection are developed and the prevalence of the dis- 
ease steadly increases as long as efficient preventive measures are not taken 
and there is an abundance of susceptible material. 

Besides the danger of using an infected water for drinking purposes, it 
is important to recognize the fact that its use in washing the hands, face 
and other parts of the body may give rise to the disease. Many well- 
demonstrated instances might be quoted to illustrate this point. 

Among articles of food, milk is not infrequently contaminated with 
typhoid germs from infected water which may have been added or used to 
wash the dairy utensils. Venders of "soft drinks," so numerous in* the 
vicinity of a military encampment, are usually not at all particular in 
respect to the quality of the water used in compounding their preparations. 
During the war with Spain, much of it was probably infected. In the 
same way, little care is taken to prevent specific contamination, through 
dust and flies, of the articles of food which such venders expose for sale. 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 683 

Many articles of food which are eaten uncooked are liable to spread the 
disease, especially vegetables. Recently an epidemic of typhoid fever 
occurred in.ilu- insane asylum at Northampton, Mass., resulting from the 
use of celery watered with h'ltered sewage. Among many similar cases, one 
was lately reported by Ferre in which an outbreak in a school followed the 
use of vegetables watered with the contents of a cesspool which received 
the evacuations of the pupils. Water-cresses grown in ditches contaminated 
by sewage have been known to serve as the vehicle for the infectious agent. 
In 1895, Deshon reported several cases of typhoid at a western station 
which he believed could be traced to the use of heavy, sour and indigesti- 
ble bread. Among troops in camp during warm weather, the use of food 
contaminated with typhoid bacilli, brought from the latrines by means of 
flies, is a factor of the greatest importance in spreading the disease. Numer- 
ous observers have demonstrated the presence of the specific bacillus in the 
excrement of flies made to feed on infected material, and colonies of typhoid 
bacilli have been shown to develop in the tracks of flies which had been 
allowed to settle on typhoid discharges and then made to walk over a suit- 
able solid culture medium. Vaughan states that during 1898, in some of 
the large military camps where lime had recently been sprinkled over the 
contents of the latrines, flies with their feet whitened with lime were seen 
walking over the food. He also noted that officers whose mess-tents were 
protected by means of screens suffered proportionally less from typhoid fever 
than did those whose tents were not so protected. Where flies are numer- 
ous in camp and are constantly settling upon and contaminating articles in 
common use, it is easy to see that, even if the food and drink be protected 
from their invasion, an infection may readily be brought about by touch- 
ing the lips with soiled fingers which have come in contact with articles 
upon which the typhoid bacilli have been deposited. 

The typhoid epidemics of 1898. gradually decreased with the approach 
of cold weather and the disabling of the fly as a carrier of the infection. 
Where a strong wind constantly blows from the same direction, a fly-borne 
infection will extend chiefly down wind ; as this insect always rises, and 
generally moves, in the direction of air-currents. These insects lay their 
eggs and hatch out in nearly all organic material, especially if this be in a 
putrid condition. Howard regards horse manure as the most favorable 
breeding material, but in the camps of 1898 the lame were often seen by 
myriads in the poorly policed latrines. Sprinkling the contents of the 
latrines with earth, as ordinarily practiced, did not appear to destroy them. 
Care with respect to preventing organic contamination of the camp space 
and in carrying out proper measures of latrine disinfection will do much 
to prevent their development. The life of the fly is short, but the cycle 
of its development is rapid. According to Howard, under favorable con- 
ditions the egg hatches in eight hours, the larva passes to the pupal state 
in sixty hours to three days, while from pupation to the issuing of the adult 
requires about five days. As the life cycle is complete in about ten days 
and the individual insect lays about one hundred and twenty eggs, the 
enormous numbers in which flies frequently occur in camps are readily ac- 
counted for since twelve to fifteen generations of the pest may be developed 
in the course of a single summer in temperate climates. 

Typhoid fever may also be transmitted by aerial infection from drains, 



684 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

water-closets, latrines, dust-heaps, urine or fecal discharges which have 
been allowed to dry on the linen or person or in receptacles. In this con- 
dition, the bacilli are capable of being carried considerable distances through 
the air to settle down on water, clothing or food. It is not yet determined 
whether the disease can be contracted by breathing air containing suspended 
bacilli, but certainly in the case of mouth-breathers the latter should readily 
find their way to the pharynx and thence be washed into the alimentary 
canal by the act of deglutition. It is true that complete desiccation soon 
destroys the typhoid germ; but it is not always completely desiccated, and 
Fliigge and Fischer have shown that this bacillus can successfully resist 
a considerable amount of drying. Allchin, moreover, states that but a 
comparatively slight current of air, four meters per second, is sufficient to 
raise germs into the atmosphere from the surface of wet ground. The 
dissemination of typhoid by means of infected dust was undoubtedly 
a potent factor in its spread, in 1898, in the camps at Jacksonville and 
Tampa. In this connection it is interesting to note that, in 1885, the 
British troops at certain stations in the Soudan used only distilled water, 
yet typhoid was very prevalent. No reason for the spread of the infection 
could be shown except that the excreta were dried, converted into dust 
and scattered over the camp by the desert winds. In the French army, 
Nollet was recently able to demonstrate the presence of the typhoid bacillus 
in the dust of cracks in the barracks at Cherbourg, at which station 
typhoid had prevailed epidemically. A typhoid infection may long exist 
in barracks. Thus after the Franco-German War it was found that 
typhoid fever continued to prevail for some years in German garrisons in 
which German soldiers or French prisoners, affected with typhoid fever, had 
lived. 

Direct contact with typhoid discharges does much to spread the in- 
fection, especially among raw troops. \Yhere lack of discipline permits the 
pollution of the ground in the vicinity of camps by the indiscriminate 
deposition of human excreta, a certain proportion of such discharges will 
assuredly be infected and thus infectious material may be carried into camp 
and tents on the shoes of incautious passers. Where the men throw their 
blankets on the ground of the tent area for sleeping purposes, it is obvious 
that the inhalation of infected dust is more liable to occur. Uncleanly seats 
in latrines, or the ground therein, may specifically contaminate the persons 
and clothing of those resorting to them. Where line troops are detailed to 
do the heavier labor about hospitals, the opportunity for infection to be 
carried back into camp through then: agency is often great. The board 
which investigated the occurrence of typhoid fever in 1898, was struck with 
the fact that men who were closely associated in the same company or tent 
almost simultaneously developed typhoid fever in many instances appar- 
ently through a localized infection derived from the same source. 

Heavy rains do much to disseminate typhoid among encamped troops, 
especially where there is bad sanitary police. Usually the increase in the 
number of cases after such rains is noticed in about ten days or two weeks. 
Where sinks are dug in impervious soil and are so located as to receive sur- 
fa/;e drainage, they may be overflowed by storm waters and distribute their 
contents over the adjoining surface these to be later dried and scattered 
as dust by the feet of men and animals and the wheels of passing wagons. 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 685 

During the war with Spain, in camps where the tub system for the reception 
of excreta was in use, careless handling and transportation by the scavengers 
resulted in. the scattering of fecal matter, much of which was infected, 
broadcast over the camp area. It may be accepted that wherever a large 
body of men assemble and their own excretions are permitted to accumu- 
late and contaminate their surroundings, an outbreak and spread of typhoid 
fever may be expected to occur. 

A fruitful cause of the dissemination of typhoid throughout a camp lies 
in the fact that no small proportion of soldiers, with mild infections or with 
ambulant cases of typhoid, either do not go on sick report until the typhoid 
condition is well advanced, or not at all. In many instances, also, the 
nature of the comparatively slight prodromal symptoms presented are not 
recognized by the medical officer, and the case for a considerable period is 
treated in quarters as one of diarrhoea or similar trifling affection. This 
is particularly true in those instances, noted by Allchiii and others as 
being not infrequent where the individual has been exposed to great hard- 
ships, in which the temperature is normal or subnormal throughout the 
attack. As already stated, the stools in typhoid fever are probably infec- 
tive even during the period of incubation ; and there undoubtedly is a con- 
siderable proportion of cases in which an infection does not develop the 
typical disease, either through an attenuation in virulence of the specific 
germ or insusceptibility on the part of the subject. In some instances the 
typhoid bacillus may grow in the intestinal tract of an individual and pass 
from the same without causing typhoid fever in the soldier serving as host ; 
this probably occurring chiefly when many irritative saprophytic germs are 
taken in with a relatively small number of typhoid bacilli. The experi- 
ence of French medical officers in Algiers and Tunis would seem to show 
that apparently healthy persons may carry the germs of typhoid, which, 
later scattered under favorable circumstances, originate the disease. British 
medical officers have noted the same in India and elsewhere. Many 
instances have been recorded, also, in our own service, especially in the 
days of Indian warfare, where outbreaks of the disease occurred among 
troops who had been for considerable periods in regions which were not 
known to have ever before been penetrated by man. For the British 
service, an instance of this is furnished by the Afghanistan campaign, 
in 1878-80; for the French army, in the Oran expedition of 1885, 
it is stated that commands encamped at desert stations never before 
occupied, and that typhoid fever not only appeared but assumed epi- 
demic proportions. From such instances, medical officers in all military 
services have favored a theory of the de novo origination of typhoid, or 
of the metamorphosis of the specific germ from the colon bacillus under 
suitable conditions. It is easy to understand, however, in the light of 
recent investigations as to the infectiveness of urine after typhoid fever, 
and from the fact that typhoid bacilli may retain their virulence for several 
months when present on infected fabrics carried in the blanket roll, how 
the microbe of this disease can be transported by troops for long periods, 
without its presence being suspected, and then give rise to an epidemic 
when favorable conditions for its development are encountered. Since the 
period of incubation is ten or twelve days or even in some cases as long as 
twenty-three days it is obvious that infected individuals may be passed as 



686 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

healthy and sent to other stations, there to develop the characteristic symp- 
toms of the disease and to serve as the starting-point for new epidemics. 
This was repeatedly shown to have occurred among recruits sent out from 
Jefferson liarracks formerly eudemically affected with typhoid fever to 
western stations. Further, convalescents from typhoid, returned to duty at 
too early a date, may be unrecognized but potent agents in the origination 
of the disease in others. All these classes of cases are particularly a men- 
ace to the health of a command under canvas, since by their agency every 
latrine in the camp may become infected and the probability of contami- 
nation of the camp space, and perhaps the tentage, by infected urine and 
saliva, is so great as to approach certainty. 

Direct contagion from the obviously diseased to the healthy plays a 
strong part in the spread of enteric fever. There is no reason for belief 
that the poison is given off in the breath or the emanations from the 
body, but it is probably contained only in the urine, faeces and, to some 
extent, the saliva. If these be properly disinfected and disposed of, strict 
cleanliness be observed and attention be paid to the disinfection of the 
soiled linen, the risk of contagion may be reduced to a minimum. Nev- 
ertheless it has not been found possible, with all precautions, entirely to 
prevent the spread of the disease to the attendants. During the typhoid 
epidemic of 1898, the admissions for this disease from the Medical De- 
partment and Hospital Corps were officially reported as amounting to 193.41 
per thousand strength, whereas the rate for the army as a whole was 88.56. 
This fact specifically demonstrated the immediately transmissible character 
of the affection, and probably was chiefly dependent upon inadvertent in- 
fection of the hands or clothing of the attendants. It is important that 
nurses in charge of typhoid cases should not have the care of patients suf- 
fering from other diseases. 

Predisposing Causes to Typhoid Among Troops. Typhoid fever 
is found in all climates outside the polar regions, but increases in preva- 
lence as the equator is approached. In the British army, distributed as it 
is all over the world, the prevalence of typhoid varies greatly. For the 
year 1898 and the decade 1888-97, the rates per thousand of British 
troops, at different stations, were as follows : 



Station. 


YEAR 1808. 


DECADE 1888-97. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


Constantly 
sick. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


Constantly 
sick. 


United Kingdom 


1.9 
4.2 
21.2 
81 


0.22 
1.32 
6.38 
23.40 


0.31 
.74 
2.44 
11.12 


1.2 
5.4 
6.6 
21.3 
1.3 
34.8 
9 
12.8 
15 
6.9 
1.5 
1.9 
21.8 


0.24 
.95 
2.48 
4.37 
.21 
6.28 
2.15 
1.87 
5.34 
2.13 
.50 
.88 
5.75 


0.20 
1.05 
1.15 
3.90 
.25 
5.13 
1,36 
1.93 
2.15 
.84 
.21 
.29 
8.12 


(Jibraltar 


Malta 


Egypt and Cyprus 


Canada 


Bermuda 


15 
1.1 
32.9 
14.6 
2.1 
'1.9 
.7 
36.3 


2.31 
.55 
5.77 
4.86 
1.48 
.64 
.71 
10.04 


2.36 
.23 
4.88 
2.87 
.09 
.39 
.17 
4.90 


West Indies 


South Africa 


Mauritius 


Ceylon 


China 


Straits Settlements.. 


India 





DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



On averaging together the figures for the two cold stations, the United 
Kingdom and Canada, for the decade 1888-97, the admissions per thou- 
sand strength are seen to be 1.25, the deaths .22 and the constantly sick 
.22. For the same period, the average rates for the remaining stations, 
located in hot climates or in the tropics, were: Admissions, 12.4; deaths, 
2.97; constantly sick, 1.92. From these figures it appears that British 
soldiers in hot climates or in the tropics are almost exactly ten times as 
liable to contract the disease as those serving in cool climates ; while the 
liability to death from this disease is fourteen times greater under the 
former conditions. The apparently shorter course run by typhoid in the 
tropics, as expressed by the rates for constant sickness, is merely due to 
the higher rate of mortality, by which the elevation of such figures, through 
tardy convalescence, is prevented. Coustan states that typhoid fever is 
far more prevalent in Algiers and Tunis than in France. In our own ser- 



-.*>- 



.ia- 

./f- 

i 
,/tf- 

-.K- 



t\ 



- :, 



F 



fuly 




Enteric fever. 



T \ Typho-malarial fever. 



FiO. 336. Chart Showing the Distribution by Months, per Thousand Strength, of Cases Diajmosed as Enteric 
Fever and Typho-Malarlal Fever. Otfurring in the United StaUs Army During the Decade 1875-84. 

vice, for the year 1898, the admissions per thousand of troops stationed 
in the tropical islands were 102.18 and the deaths 13.88; while of troops 
within the United States during the same period the admission rate was 
85.46 and the death rate was 8.79. It should be remembered, however, 
that troops were exposed to tropical influences but a small part of that 
year, and that for full periods of service the difference in rates would un- 
doubtedly have been much greater. Thus for the year 1899, under more 
settled conditions, the admissions to hospital per thousand strength 
amounted to 27.09 for all the tropical islands and to 10.85 for troops 
serving in the United States. Within the limits of the United States the 
influence of locality is marked ; the amount of typhoid fever in the De- 
partment of Texas being almost twice as high as in any other military de- 
partment. In 1890 it was more than six times as high as in the Depart- 
ments of the East, California and Arizona. In 1897 it was fourteen times 
as high as California and much higher than in the other departments. 



688 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

As to season, the disease prevails in our army especially during the 
late summer and early autumn. For the decade 1875-84, as shown by the 
diagram on the preceding page, the disease occurred least frequently during 
March and April, and prevailed most extensively in August and Septem- 
ber. In the French and German armies it prevails to the greatest extent 
during and after the maneuvers in August and September; in the Aus- 
trian army its prevalence is greater during the July rnanceuvers. Certain 
notable outbreaks have occurred in the spring, but these are invariably to 
be traced to a water-borne infection and are exceptions to the general rule. 

Military experience shows that an infection of enteric fever often tixes 
persistently upon a single barracks, post or district. As a rule, in those 
localities where the disease is endemic it will be found that unsanitary 
conditions abound; notably, impure water-supply, defective methods and 
arrangements for the disposal of excreta, and want of care in respect to 
preventive measures. In India, typhoid fever has been found to be a more 
difficult disease to eradicate from military posts than cholera ; persisting 
with great tenacity and recurring year after year in spite of all efforts. It 
has even been found necessary to abandon stations for this reason. Within 
these endemically infected areas, new arrivals are especially liable to attack, 
those long resident appearing to acquire a relative immunity through repeated 
mild infections. Great importance was attached by Pettenkofer to the height 
of the ground-water in endemically infected regions; a low ground water, 
in his opinion, always coinciding with outbreaks of the disease. This re- 
lation between typhoid fever and ground-water apparently holds true for 
certain localities only and need receive no serious consideration. 

Negroes and other colored races undoubtedly possess an immunity to 
typhoid fever. By some this is regarded as a racial characteristic, by others 
as an acquired immunity resulting from an attack of the disease during 
childhood. In India, the blood of the natives, as a class, has been recently 
shown to give a positive reaction with Widal's test in most instances. In 
our own service, the disease is undeniably less frequent among the negro 
troops than among the whites. For the period 1867-83, the admis- 
sions per thousand white soldiers, for typhoid, not counting typho-mala- 
rial fevers as then recognized, amounted to 3.58, while the admissions for 
colored troops were 2.59 per thousand strength. For the year 1887, the 
admission rate for white soldiers amounted to 4.25, for colored soldiers 
.93. During the decade 1887-96 the admission rate among the whites 
was 5.93 and for the negroes 2.43. It is interesting to note that for our 
few Indian soldiers, during this latter period, the admission rate for 
typhoid was only .47. During the year of war, 1898, the relative insus- 
ceptibility of negro troops as regards typhoid fever was especially notice- 
able; the admission rate being 93.24 per thousand white and 27.64 per 
thousand colored troops this, too, in spite of the fact that the negro 
regiments saw harder service. On the other hand, when the disease has 
actually occurred, the .case mortality has been much higher among* the 
colored soldiers than the whites. Typhoid fever occurs only exceptionally 
among the native troops in India, and their immunity as compared with 
white soldiers serving in that country has long been noted. As illustrat- 
ing how great this difference in susceptibility really is, it may be stated 
that, in 1893, of the forces in India, typhoid fever was responsible for 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



1.41 per cent, of the sickness and 42 per cent, of the mortality among the 
English soldiers, and for only .03 per cent, of the sickness and .4 per cent, 
of the mortality among the native forces. Such an immunity would seem 
to have an important bearing on the question of raising native forces for 
controlling our own tropical possessions. For the white race, nativity ap- 
pears to be a factor of some slight importance. In the United States army, 
during the seven years 1890-96, the admission rate for typhoid fever from 
the native-bora Americans, per thousand strength, was 5.69 ; for the soldiers 
of German nativity, 5.41, and for those bom in Ireland, 5.02. 

Typhoid fever is especially a disease of young soldiers. How much 
greater their susceptibility is, can best be appreciated by reference to the 
accompanying, diagram, in which the number of admissions are seen to 
decrease progressively by almost exactly one-half during each five-year 
period up to the age of 35. Not only are young men more liable to con- 




Fio. 337. Admissions for Typhoid Fever, In the I'nlted States Army, per Thousand of Each Class, Arranged 
According to Age, Occurring during the Seven Years 1890-98. 

tract this disease, but the mortality also, among those affected, is higher. 
For the period 1890-96, in our army, the deaths per thousand of each class 
were as follows : 

Age. Death rate. 

19 years and under 8.82 

20 to 24 inclusive 95 

25 to 29 69 

80 to 84 4 u 28 

The case mortality for this period was 16.02 per cent, for soldiers 19 years 
of age or under, 9.21 per cent, for those 20-24 years of age and 8.89 for 
those 30-34 years of age. 

Length of service, in which factor age must clearly be considered to 
enter, also markedly influences the occurrence of typhoid. The report of 
the surgeon-general for 1885 shows the relative prevalence of this disease, 
excluding small fractions, among men of different periods of service, to be 
as follows: 

Percentage of total deaths 
from typhoid furnished 
Length of service. by each class. 

6 months and under 48 

Over 6 months and under 12 16 

Over 1 year and under 2 14 

Over 2 years and under 8 5.5 

Over 8 years and under 4 4.5 

Over 5 years 7 

Length of service not stated 4.5 

44 



690 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

In respect to English-born soldiers in India, Eyre and Spottiswoode 
state : " The susceptibility of young soldiers to this fever is clearly shown 
in the length of residence in India ; for while the death rate from typhoid 
was 4.98 i*r 1,000 in the first and second years' service, among those in 
their third to sixth years and seventh to tenth years it was 1.55 and .55 
respectively." The report of the Sanitary Commissioner of India, for 1896, 
states that out of the total number of deaths at all ages from enteric fever, 
78 per cent, were between 20 and 24 years of age and 36 per cent, were in 
the first year of residence. In India, the prevalence of the disease among 
troops appears to depend chiefly upon the amount of susceptible material 
presented. This amount of susceptible material is of course variable ; but, 
so far as the United States army is concerned, the board which investigated 
the typhoid outbreaks during the war with Spain believed that the amount 
of susceptible individuals in a regiment might be regarded as one-fourth 
to one-third the total strength. 

The influence of the branch of service upon the prevalence of typhoid 
fever is by no means small. For the period 1867-83, inclusive, the ad- 
mission rates, per thousand strength, were as follows: Cavalry, 19; in- 
fantry, 4.6; artillery, 2.5. For this sixteen-year period, the cavalry thus 
suffered more than seven times as much from typhoid as did the artillery 
and nearly five times as much as the infantry, while its death rate was 
more than three times greater than either of the others. This great dif- 
ference was largely due to the active field service against Indians required 
of mounted troops. For the seven-year period 189096, the admission 
rates, per thousand strength, were 8.03 for the cavalry, 5.74 for the in- 
fantry and 4.74 for the artillery. In time of peace, the Medical Depart- 
ment is affected less than any of the above arms of the service ; during 
the war with Spain it suffered more than twice as much as any of them. 

Overcrowding among troops certainly predisposes to epidemic typhoid 
fever ; Marvaud gives figures to show that in the French army the mortal- 
ity from this disease bears a well-defined relationship to the number of 
men aggregated at a post. In camp, the effects of overcrowding are par- 
ticularly noticeable. This is perhaps due in part to a lowered vital resis- 
tance in the individual, but is probably chiefly dependent on the greater 
intensity of the infection resulting from the rapid propagation of the 
typhoid bacillus on a soil more highly contaminated with organic ma- 
terial, with a possible acquirement of more virulent qualities under such 
conditions. 

Uncleanliness of person and surroundings is a powerful factor in the 
development of the disease among soldiers. Particularly is this the case 
with regard to the care and disposition of the excreta the most important 
and difficult problem presented to the military sanitarian in the field. The 
common method of disposal of excreta and refuse in camp by trenches and 
pits offers nianji facilities for the development and spread of the specific 
micro-organisms. All collections of filth are liable to contamination and 
hence to become foci of infection. In garrison, the accumulation of organic 
matter under floors, dampened by the seepage of moisture through the use of 
excessive amounts of water in cleansing, affords excellent facilities for the 
development of the microbe. 

The influence of great fatigue, as a factor in the occurrence of typhoid, 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 691 

has been particularly noted by medical officers in foreign services. The 
arduous and exhausting uianoeuvers which take place yearly in all the 
larger European armies are invariably followed by outbreaks of this affec- 
tion. It is well known that by over-exertion the bactericidal power of the 
blood is diminished and susceptibility to disease greatly increased. Cou- 
stan mentions, in connection with this subject, the experiments of Charrin 
and Roger, in which rats made to turn a wheel until exhausted succumbed 
readily to inoculation by an attenuated culture of anthrax, while similar 
animals, not so exhausted, resisted the same inoculation. The loss of life 
from typhoid fever in infected regiments sent from Chickamauga to Porto 
Rico, in 1898, was materially greater than among similarly infected regi- 
ments which remained behind probably through the greater hardship and 
physical strain to which the former were exposed. It is undoubtedly true 
that, while leaving the system more readily open to invasion by the ty- 
phoid germ, excessive fatigue induces more speedy development of the dis- 
ease in persons already infected. 

Insufficient or improper food, through the malnutrition or digestive 
disturbance which results from its use, may facilitate the invasion of the 
organism by the typhoid bacillus. 

Prophylaxis. In the prevention of epidemics of enteric fever among 
troops in garrison , a pure water-supply is of the first importance. With troops 
in camp, while the water should be of good quality, an early and correct 
diagnosis of the cases of this disease which first appear is essential in pre- 
venting its spread. If the water-supply be regarded as liable to pollution, 
it should, in garrison, be filtered through the Berkefeld apparatus before 
being used for drinking purposes. In the field, and sometimes in garrison, 
water is best sterilized by boiling preferably by the Forbes apparatus. 
If the water is originally pure, as water from springs, deep or artesian 
wells or . unpolluted surface-waters, it will only be necessary to ensure 
against its contamination before use. Where such water is dipped from 
open barrels with possibly unclean cups and hands, it will be evident 
that during the prevalence of typhoid fever the contamination of drinking- 
water in this way may not be rare. The receptacles for drinking-water 
should therefore be tightly closed and the water drawn off by means of 
faucets. Since, in camps, enteric fever is more directly propagated from 
the sick, and since the latter can through their discharges soon dissemi- 
nate the disease through large bodies of troops, the prompt recognition 
and isolation of typhoid cases, with the immediate disinfection of their 
excreta, equipments, tentage and surroundings, is of the greatest import- 
ance. As already intimated, the diagnosis of this disease is frequently a 
matter of much difficulty and may l>e impossible in all instances, but con- 
stant watch fulness on the part of medical officers will reduce this error 
to the minimum. The board investigating the typhoid epidemics pre-. 
vailing during the war with Spain concluded that less than half of the 
cases of this disease which occurred among troops were correctly diagnosed ; 
but stated its opinion that, in recognizing this proportion, the army medi- 
cal officer probably did better than the average physician throughout the 
country does in his private practice. Any such error of diagnosis, how- 
ever, implies too great reliance upon the mere clinical symptoms of enteric 
fever which, it has been stated, are frequently modified or largely lacking 



692 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

and a too infrequent use of modern and more precise means of diagnosis, 

as found in the Widal test with blood-serum and the diazo reaction given 
by the urine. It is obvious that under many conditions of military service, 
]>articularly with marching troops, the former test can scarcely be applied, 
but in a fixed camp or garrison it can usually be carried out and the 
technique of the diazo reaction is possible under any circumstances. 
These tests should be habitually applied to every case presenting fever, 
the nature of which is not promptly and definitely recognized as being 
other than typhoid. In view of the great importance of accurate and early 
diagnosis, even at the risk of encroaching upon the province of military 
medicine, these tests will be briefly considered. 

The Widal method of diagnosis is based upon the fact that living and 
actively motile typhoid bacilli, when placed in the dilute serum of a pa- 
tient suffering from typhoid fever, within a short time lose their motility 
and become aggregated into clumps. For this purpose, either fresh or 
dried blood may be used. In the military service, the use of the latter 
will usually be more convenient and appears to give fully as accurate re- 
sults. With this method, a drop of the blood to be examined is received on 
a sheet of glazed writing-paper and allowed to dry in the air, and may then 
be folded and sent to the laboratory in an envelope. At the Army Medi- 
cal Museum, the fluid medium employed for the growth of the typhoid 
bacilli required in the test is old one per cent, glucose bouillon. A tube 
of this bouillon is planted with a culture of the typhoid bacillus, which as 
a rule has grown on agar for several weeks. The inoculated tube is usually 
kept at room temperature ; since when grown for eighteen to twenty-four 
hours at 37 C., a loop taken from the lower part of such a tube often shows 
small masses of agglutinated bacilli. When grown at room temperature, 
the danger of previous clumping is eliminated and the bacilli are kept in good 
motility for three to five days. A drop of dried blood is moistened at its 
margin with sterilized distilled water, so as to obtain a pale straw-colored 
solution. This is transferred, by the loop, to the center of a clean cover-slip 
which has been well flamed. Generally the contents of the loops are trans- 
ferred, and immediately thereafter a quantity of the fluid culture, motility of 
which has been previously tested, is carefully mixed with the blood solution. 
The drop is then examined, with a dry lens, to observe motility and agglu- 
tination. The time adopted within which the reaction should be complete 
is one hour. When all motility ceases and the majority of the bacilli are 
gathered together in small masses, the reaction is positive. If partial ag- 
glutination occurs, a few bacilli are still motile, the reaction is incomplete 
and a second sample of blood is examined subsequently. When the re- 
action is present only to some extent around the margin of the drop, the 
reaction is doubtful. The relation of the dilution of the serum is very 
important ; since if the degree of dilution be too small, a non-typhoid 
serum may cause clumping. If possible, examinations should be made 
with several dilutions ; in general, the more dilute the serum the longer 
the time necessary for a complete reaction. Of course an accurate measure- 
ment of the dilution with dried blood-serum is scarcely possible. While 
there is a certain small margin of error with the Widal reaction, it appears 
to be given by the serum in about ninety-five per cent, of all cases of enteric 
fever. The reaction is usually obtainable about the seventh day of the 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 693 

disease, though occasionally it has been found as early as the fifth day. 
Sometimes it has not appeared until the third week or later, and usually 
it becomes more marked as the disease advances. How long the reaction 
can l obtained after the end of the disease has not as yet been fully de- 
termined, but in many cases it has been found after several months and it 
probably is given after periods of years. 

The Ehrlich diazo reaction is given by the urine in a large proportion of 
cases of typhoid fever, and possesses considerable diagnostic importance when 
considered with the clinical history of the case. In performing this test, 
two solutions, called A and B, are prepared. A consists of a twenty per cent, 
solution of hydrochloric acid saturated with sulphanilic acid ; B of a half 
per cent, solution of sodium nitrite. Immediately before using, one part 
of B is mixed with twenty-five parts of A, an equal volume of urine is 
added to it in a test-tube and strong liquor ammonia is dropped into the 
mixture or allowed to flow down the side of the tube. At the junction, a 
crimson ring forms. If the tube be shaken, the froth is colored pink; or- 
dinary urine gives a more or less deep orange color. In applying the test, 
care should be taken to mix the solution accurately. The reaction often 
appears before the clinical symptoms of the case are well pronounced. 

Since the Widal and diazo reactions may not be given at certain stages 
of enteric fever, they should be repeated one or more times in possibly sus- 
picious cases. 

Where typhoid fever is recognized as existing, the affected individual 
should be promptly isolated. If in garrison, the clothing and bedding of 
the patient, together with the water-closet or latrine used by him, should 
be disinfected. If the case occurs under canvas these precautions are re- 
quired, and in addition the disinfection of the clothing and bedding of 
those sheltered with him should be sterilized. The tent itself should be 
disinfected. If possible the camp, or at least that of the company organi- 
zation in which the case occurred, should be moved. If this be not pos- 
sible, the site occupied by the tent should be vacated, policed and exposed 
to the sun, and should not again be occupied. In many instances it 
would be desirable, in addition, to freely scatter fresh lime over the entire 
tent area. Old tent floors should be scrubbed with a strong carbolic solu- 
tion, stood on edge and sunned on both sides for at least two days before 
being again used. 

Since the nature of many cases of enteric infection in camp will not be 
recognized, it should be the rule, under conditions of field service, to regard 
all human excreta as infected and, where a camp has a permanency of more 
than three or four days, systematically to carry out measures for the destruc- 
tion of its presumably noxious qualities. The expense of an epidemic of 
typhoid will be many times the additional cost of these justifiable precau- 
tions. In all camps of any permanency, the use of excavated latrines 
should be prohibited and either the* trough system or crematories, as 
already considered, provided for the disposal of excreta. Under the same 
conditions, urine tubs should be provided for night use and their utilization 
enforced. The board which investigated the epidemics of typhoid fever in 
1898, found that the number of cases in the different camps varied, in a 
general way, with the methods of disposing of the excretions. Hence care- 
ful policing of the camp, with cremation of refuse, should be carried out to 



694 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

limit soil contamination and prevent the development of the fly. plague. 
A careful sanitary police is highly effective in preventing the development 
of these insects in very great numbers ; but where the fly plague actually 
exists, the only recourse is to abandon the infected area for a new site, pref- 
erably located to the windward and at a distance of at least two miles. 
The fact that a command expects to change its location at an early date 
does not justify neglect of proper policing of the ground occupied. Except 
in the case of the most urgent military necessity, one command should 
never be located upon a camp site recently vacated by another. 

Other general methods of prophylaxis consist in the allotment of abun- 
dant space in the arrangement of the camp ; the free exposure of the inte- 
rior of tents and of their contents to sunlight and air-currents ; the rais- 
ing of the bed of the soldier above the ground ; cleanliness.of person on the 
part of troops ; an abundance of good food and, in time of epidemic, the avoid- 
ance of exhausting drills and exercises. It is important that a presumably 
infected camp site should promptly be abandoned ; though if troops be al- 
lowed first to become generally infected, this procedure is not as efficacious 
in controlling typhoid fever as in some other diseases. It is evident that 
where tents, blankets and equipage which have been infected are carried 
along with the troops, innumerable cultures of the bacillus are thus trans- 
planted to the new camp site, besides those in the bodies of the infected 
men themselves. 

With respect to the measures to be applied to prevent further spread of 
the infection from the sick, the proper disinfection of the excreta is of the 
first importance. All discharges should be received in a solution of milk 
of lime. The nates of the patient should be cleaned with paper and after- 
ward with a bit of compress-cloth wet with a dilute disinfectant solution. 
The bed-pan should be covered with rubber sheeting and removed at once. 
In garrison, the contents of the bed-pan should be thoroughly mixed and 
allowed to stand for half an hour before pouring into the slop-hopper ; in 
the field they should be burned at once. The practice of burying typhoid 
discharges, after measures of disinfection by chemical means, is strongly to 
be deprecated. In certain instances all the bacilli will undoubtedly not be 
destroyed, and it has been shown that they not only develop in organically 
polluted ground but may grow upward to the surface through a considerable 
depth of earth. Even if buried deeply, there is always a possibility of their 
future disturbance or of their gaining access to a neighboring water-supply. 
Whether in camp or garrison, the cloth compresses used to cleanse the per- 
son of the patient should be destroyed by fire. The bed-pan, rubber cover 
and slop hopper should be cleansed with disinfectant solution and the two 
former wiped dry. Both should be placed in a closed receptacle to prevent 
access by flies when not in use. All sputum should be received in spit- 
cups containing a disinfectant solution. Feeding utensils should be 
cleansed with boiling water immecfiately after use, and any uneaten rem- 
nants of food at once disinfected by burning or scalding. All bec^-linen, 
body-clothes and towels soiled by discharges should be immediately 
rolled in a clean sheet wet in bichloride solution and removed for appro- 
priate disinfection. Bed-spreads and blankets should be sunned and aired 
as often as possible. They should not be shaken in the sick-room any 
more than is absolutely necessary. Bed and body-linen should be changed 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. H\\~> 

daily and all soiled linen should at once be disinfected; rubber sheets 
should be used over the mattresses. Flies should be kept away from the 
patient, not only for his comfort but to prevent the transmission of his 
disease to others by their agency. 

After attending to the wants of a typhoid patient, the hands of the 
nurse in each instance should be rinsed in a disinfectant solution and then 
washed in warm water, using soap and a nail-brush. 

The urine of patients convalescent from this disease should be ex- 
amined at frequent intervals for the typhoid bacillus, and return to duty 
or quarters before this bacillus has been absent from the urine for a period 
of at least one week should not be permitted. To effect the sterilization of 
the urine, when this bacillus is present, Richardson and others recommend 
the use of urotropin, in ten-grain doses, three times a day. Salol and 
other substances appear to have little value for this purpose. The return 
of typhoid patients to their regiments for convalescence in order to make 
room in possibly crowded hospitals is above all to be avoided. 

Preventive Inoculation. The problem of preventive inoculation 
against typhoid fever, now receiving much attention, has a special impor- 
tance for the military sanitarian. Bokenham endeavored to produce a pro- 
phylactic and curative serum by the immunization of horses through the 
repeated injection of 'living and dead cultures of the bacillus; but the 
serum thus obtained was not of sufficiently great potency to give it a prac- 
tical value, and no means could be found of precipitating or concentrating 
what strength the serum contained. Pfeifler, Wright and Semple and 
others then endeavored directly to produce in man the immunity which it 
was shown could be created in animals. At first these investigators cul- 
tivated virulent cultures on agar, making up an emulsion of these cultures 
with bouillon so that each cubic centimeter contained about 2 mgm. of 
fresh agar growth. The microbes were then killed by exposure to a tem- 
perature of 56 C. for several hours. Of this emulsion, 1 c.c. was used as 
a dose, the liquid being well shaken. Recently Wright has attained more 
satisfactory results by cultivating the bacilli directly in bouillon. After 
incubation at 37 C. for a period of fourteen to twenty-one days, the cul- 
ture is sterilized by exposure to a temperature of 60 C. for five minutes. 
This is done by drawing the emulsion into small sterile tubes, which are 
sealed and placed in a beaker of cold water which is gradually raised to 
the desired temperature, and this is maintained for the period above noted. 
Agar tubes are then inoculated with the material to make sure of its ster- 
ility. Before injection, one-half per cent, of lysol is sometimes added to 
neutralize any accidental contamination. The amount used for human 
inoculation is two-Hfths of the minimum amount which would be fatal to 
a guinea-pig weighing 250 gm. The immunizing material appears to be 
valuable rather on account of its antimicrobic than its antitoxic proper- 
ties. 

While the* reaction following the inoculation is usually slight, it is at 
times somewhat severe. Rigors, nausea and a tendency to syncope some- 
times occur. There is a well-marked local reaction, which, however, never 
advances to suppuration. When the inoculation is successful, the blood- 
serum acquires the specific agglutinative property with regard to the bacilli 
to a marked degree. Cameron found in his own case that at the end of 



696 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

twenty days the agglutinating power of his blood-serum was increased forty 
times ; and an increase to this extent has been shown by other observers 
commonly to result. In general, the agglutinating property is equal to that 
conferred by an attack of the disease itself. It is not known how long the 
influence of the inoculation persists; and when a protection lasting more 
than two years is desired, ;t is recommended to ensure a good reaction by 
repeating the inoculation after an interval of one week. This repetition 
appears to be of importance in securing the best results. 

At present, experience with these inoculations has not been sufficiently 
comprehensive to warrant the drawing of exact conclusions. The inocula- 
tions have been carried out on a considerable scale, however, with the 
sanction of the military authorities, on British soldiers voluntarily submit- 
ting to the operation before leaving for the recent scene of hostilities in 
South Africa. Foulerton states that reports so far received from the Anglo- 
Bcjer War show that typhoid fever has occurred at the rate of six to the thou- 
sand among the inoculated and nine to the thousand of the uninoculated. 
Figures given by Wright, based upon 11,295 inoculated British soldiers in 
India, show that .95 per cent, of these contracted the disease where 2.5 per 
cent, of the uuinoculated were attacked. These results, while not brilliant, 
are certainly encouraging and render the method well worthy of general 
use among young soldiers detailed for tropical service ; particularly since 
the inoculation, when properly performed, is quite free from actual danger. 

INFLUENZA. 

Occurrence. In the military service, influenza is chiefly of impor- 
tance through the incapacity for duty which it produces. The military 
age does not include the extremes of life, at which the disease is most 
fatal, and hence the mortality directly resulting from this affection is 
small ; but that it exerts a certain unfavorable influence in the production 
of secondary pneumonia and tuberculosis there can be no doubt. The 
disease in our army has occurred in well-defined epidemics, of great in- 
tensity but short duration. During recent years these epidemics have 
occurred with much greater frequency. Following their subsidence, there 
appears to have been a tendency on the part of medical officers to confound 
simple respiratory catarrhs with this disease, even in the absence of any 
epidemic tendencies thus probably unduly raising the rates for this 
affection. During the Civil War, the admission rates for influenza, per 
thousand strength, amounted to 60.84. For the sixteen years 1868-84, 
the cases fell to an average of 9.39 per thousand strength. During the 
decade 1885-94, epidemics in 1892 and 1893 raised the figures for this 
disease, making the admissions 49.88 per thousand strength. For the 
period 1895-98, the admission rate was 44.92. For the year 1897, the 
admissions were again increased to 74.35, while for 1898 they fell to 
32.37. In foreign armies, the disease has prevailed among troops during 
the general epidemics which have from time to time occurred. In 1892 
and 1893, high rates for this disease were given in all European armies. 
In the British army the disease has prevailed nearly every year since 
39. In the Russian service, influenza appears annually as a potent factor 
in elevating the sick rates. 




DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 697 

Cause. The disease is now generally accepted as being produced by 
specific bacilli which, as seen in the sputum, appear as very minute rods, 
staining more deeply at the extremities. These bacilli occur singly or 
form clumps by their aggregation, but do not grow into chains. They 
show no capsule, are non-motile and do not form spores. They take up 
basic aniline stains somewhat feebly and are best stained with carbol-fuchsin. 
They are decolorized by Gram's method of staining. The bacilli grow best 
at body temperature and upon the surface of media containing blood or 
blood-coloring matter, the latter appearing to afford substances especially 
adapted to the nutrition of this micro-organism. After twenty-four hours, 
the colonies appear as minute circular, 
transparent dots. The bacilli die out 
very quickly in cultures. A small 
amount of growth takes place in bouil- 
lon to which a little fresh blood has 
been added. 

Dissemination and Infection. 
The powers 'of resistance of this ba- 
cillus appear to be of a very low order. 
Pfeiffer found that dried cultures kept 
at the ordinary temperature were usu- 
ally dead in twenty hours, and that no 
growth could be obtained from influ- 
enza sputum at the end of two days. 
Their duration of life in ordinary water Fl - m ~ Influenza A St! ) ln 8putum ' <After 
is also short, the bacilli being usually 

dead in two days. From these experiments, Pfeiffer concludes that the 
bacilli cannot multiply under ordinary condition outside the body, and can 
remain alive for a short time only. The mode of infection in the disease 
he accordingly considers to be chiefly by direct contact with infective mu- 
cus, with which alone the bacilli probably escape from the organism. Its 
rapid spread over large areas was long thought to be explainable on the 
supposition that the infection was air-borne, but this is probably due to the 
combined effect of a short incubation period, an early infectiveness, a gen- 
eral susceptibility and the existence of early unrecognized cases. It is im- 
possible to state exactly the conditions which favor its development and 
spread, but atmospheric conditions which favor bronchial irritation certainly 
play a part. The incubation period is from two to six days, and perhaps at 
times the limits are wider. Infectivity is established early, in many instan- 
ces before the disease has fairly declared itself. It persists for some time 
after acute symptoms have subsided, judging by the* presence of Pfeiffer's 
bacillus. While this micro-organism appears to be unable to cause influ- 
enza in the lower animals, there is abundant evidence that certain animals 
suffer with symptoms much like those of influenza during epidemics of 
this disease. During the severe epidemics of 1892 and 1893, the disease 
known as " pink-eye," regarded by many as a form of influenza, was ex- 
tremely prevalent among our cavalry horses. 

Prophylaxis. Influenza is an infectious disease, the spread of which 
can be checked by isolation ; but when the peculiar features of the disease 
and the conditions of military life are considered, it must be admitted that 



698 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

isolation has its limitations and can usually only mitigate but not entirely 
prevent an epidemic. In general, however, it is important to prevent as 
far as possible the contact of the infected with the uninfected. Soldiers 
affected with the disease even in a mild form should be taken into hospital, 
not so much for their own welfare as for the sake of others. While the 
disease prevails, large assemblages of troops should, as far as possible, be 
avoided. There should also be an avoidance of all influences that lower 
the general tone, and good ventilation with cleanliness of person and sur- 
roundings are of value. The sputum of affected individuals should be 
treated in the same manner as if it were tuberculous. All handkerchiefs, 
napkins, bedding, clothing and other articles used by the sick should be 
disinfected though when an epidemic is once established, the infection is 
usually so widespread that measures looking to the control of the disease 
are of but little avail. 

MALARIAL FEVERS. 

Occurrence. Malaria has ravaged armies in every age and climate, 
and has frequently modified military operations or brought about their 
failure. Rome was saved from capture by malarial fevers, which so 
scourged the besieging Gauls under Brennus as to cause their retreat. In 
the year 208, the Roman army in Scotland lost 50,000 men out of a total 
of 80,000 from this cause. No military disaster caused by malarial in- 
fection was more complete, however, than that of the British expedition 
to the island of Walcheren, in 1809. On this occasion it has been said 
that the British were conquered before the battle. Out of an effective 
force of 39,219 there succumbed to the fever, between August 28th and 
December, no less than 23,175 men, while after the return to England 
there were 11,503 additional cases. But 217 men, during this disastrous 
expedition, were killed by the enemy. In the Seminole War, in Florida, 
our troops suffered severely from malarial infections. In the French army 
before Sebastopol there were 20,623 cases with 2,179 deaths. In the 
Union forces, during the Civil War, there were 1,314,744 cases of malaria 
with 10,062 deaths; giving a mortality of 3.92 per thousand strength. 
" But though the mortality from these fevers was comparatively light, their 
influence in detracting from the efficiency of the army was very great "- 
as well as largely influencing the rates of discharge for disability on ac- 
count of resulting anaemia and chronic malarial poisoning. The so-called 
" Chickahominy fever " was particularly severe in its effects. Malarial fe- 
vers prevailed in the French army during the Italian War and the occupa- 
tion of the Papal States, Ashmead states that 5,995 Japanese soldiers, sent 
to Formosa in 1873, furnished 6,105 admissions to hospital, for continued 
malarial fevers, in a single year. In the French expedition in Madagascar, 
in 1895, out of a force of 22,850 men combatants and carriers there 
were 7,498 deaths from disease; a mortality of about 33 per cent. Nearly 
all the deaths were from malarial fevers. During this expedition only 7 
men were killed by the .enemy and but 94 wounded. In the same year, a 
Spanish expedition in the Philippine Islands was scourged by malarial 
fever. During the last insurrection in Cuba, the Spanish forces were 
largely depleted by malarial infections of a severe type ; the admissions to 
hospital for this cause, during the year 1897, amounting to 420 per thou- 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



sand strength. In 1898, after the capture of Santiago, one-half of our 
forces in Cuba were incapacitated for duty at the same time by reason of 
malarial fevers. This grave condition of affairs evoked an appeal to the 
War Department, signed by all the officers of higher rank, for an immediate 
removal of these troops to a more healthy locality using the sentence : 
"This army must be moved or perish." 

Until within a comparatively recent period, malarial disease, in time 
of peace, constituted the prime factor in the constitution of the sick reports 
of our army. To-day, except for a few posts, it occupies a minor position 
for troops on the home station the decrease not only having been great but 
steadily progressive. This reduction has been brought about by the with- 
drawal of troops from more unhealthful stations and by greater attention 
to sanitary detail at the few malarious posts at which military necessity re- 
quires garrisons to be maintained. During the last quarter of a century, 



s s 



5 S 



- C 



> s 



FIG. 389. Chart Showing Admissions for Malarial Infections In the United States Army, per Thousand 
Strength, for the Period 1861-96, Excluding the Year 1807. 

also, the disease appears to have decreased considerably in frequency, 
especially in the eastern portion of the United States. The possibility 
of retaining troops at stations on the Potomac River, as an example, was 
long a matter for serious consideration. Nearly all the garrison at Fort 
Myer contracted malarial fevers during the season ; of Washington Bar- 
racks it was at one time officially reported that during the malarial months 
there were scarcely enough well men to perform guard duty ; and at Fort 
Washington the prevalence of malarial disease resulted in the abandon- 
ment of the post as a station for troops. These posts still lead all other 
military stations in this country as regards malaria, but the proportionate 
number of cases of malarial infection is now very greatly reduced. Follow- 
ing the re-garrisoning of Fort Washington, the sick rates at that station 
have been by no means seriously high. 

Since the Civil War, the admissions for malaria for the entire army, per 
thousand strength, -fell from 793.75 in 1868 to 78.88 in 1897. For the 
period 1868-84, the admission rates, per thousand strength, amounted to 
331.06; for the decade 1885-94 they were 92.27. The influence of war, 



700 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

and especially the exposure to malarial infection in the tropics, caused an 
increase in the admission rate to 694.60 in 1898. The death rate, also, 
was unusually high during the last-named year, showing the more grave 
nature of the tropical infections. The board investigating the occurrence 
of typhoid fever during the war with Spain came to the conclusion, how- 
ever, that malaria was a comparatively rare disease among those soldiers 
who remained within the limits of the United States. As great as has 
been the reduction of malarial disease in our own army to one-tenth of 
its prevalence a generation ago the improvement in this respect in the 
German service has been even greater. Official figures for that army are 
as follows: 

Admissions 
per 1,000 strength. 

1881-82 to 1885-86 14.2 

1886-87 to 1890-91 4.1 

1891-92 to 1895-96 1.1 

Year 1895-96 , 55 

Year 1896-97 45 

In the French army, the admissions for malaria, per thousand strength, 
are thus given by Coustan for troops in France and Algeria. 



Admissions 
Period. per 1,000 strength. 

1875-79 30 

1880 18 

1881 25 

1882 30 

1883 56 

1884 15 

1885.. . 20 



Period. 

1888.. 

1889.., 

1890.. 

1891.. 

1892.. 

1893.. 



Admissions 
per 1,000 strength. 

18 

16 

17 

86.1 

24.4 

. 14.2 



For the British forces on the home stations, the admissions for the decade 
1888-97, per thousand strength, amounted to 6.3; for the year 1898 they 
were increased to 9.5. 

In the Russian army, the admission and mortality rates from malarial 
fevers, per thousand strength, were lately as follows : 



Year. 


Admissions, 


Deaths. 


Year. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


1890.. 


102.3 


7.1 


1894 


57 6 


0.08 


1891 


79.9 


.05 


1895 . . . 


445 


.06 


1892 


78.1 


08 


1896 


46 5 


.08 


1893 


79.1 


.07 


1897 


473 


. .07 















In the Austrian army the cases of malaria amounted to 50.3 per thou- 
sand in 1885; to 30.6 in 1891; to 40.4 in 1892; to 34.7 in 1893; to 28 
in 1894; to 26.1 in 1895; to 22.6 in 1896;-and to 31.9 in 1897. The 
deaths from malaria in the Italian army, per thousand strength, have re- 
cently been as follows : 



Year. 
1893 
1894 
1895 



Death rate. 
.. 0.18 
. . .10 
.12 



Year. 
1896 
1897 



Death rate. 
.. 0.12 
.08 



Cause. The organism now recognized as being the causative agent in 
the production of malarial fever is an animal parasite discovered by Lave- 
ran, of the French army, belonging to the protozoa and known under the 



, 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 701 

name of Plasmodium malariae. Regarding the invariable presence of this 
organism in the blood of those sick with the disease, and the cycle of 
changes which it undergoes in relation to the paroxysms of fever, all are 
agreed. On the other hand, some doubt still prevails regarding certain 
periods of development, and especially regarding the number of varieties of 
the organism and their relations to one another. The view entertained by 
Laveran is that there is but one species of malarial parasite, which is poly- 
morphous and presents slight differences in structural character in the 
different types of fever. This view, however, is held by but a small mi- 
nority of observers. There is now a fairly general agreement as to the 
division of the varieties of malarial fever, according to the character of the 
parasite, into two main classes ; the first including the milder forms, tertian 
and quartan, and the second including the quotidian, malignant or sestivo- 
autumnal and certain irregular forms. In all these types of fever the para- 
sites pass through a definite cycle of development, which is complete in a 
period of time corresponding to the variety of the fever. The parasites are 
always most abundant in the blood during the attack of fever, but in the 
intervals they may become greatly diminished in number or even disap- 
pear. They are also, as a rule, more abundant in the internal organs than 
in the peripheral blood-vessels, and in some types of fever the process of 
sporulation is practically confined to the former. 

In general, the life history of the parasite in the blood of man is briefly 
as follows: 

The spores are the youngest and smallest forms, which result from the 
segmentation of the adult parasite. They are rounded or oval protoplasmic 
bodies, varying in size with the different types of fever and possessing lit- 
tle or no amoeboid movement. They remain free in the serum for a short 
time, but soon attack the red blood corpuscles and become the intra-corpus- 
cular amoeboid bodies. This invasion of the blood cells by the immature 
parasites, while it has not actually been witnessed, may be safely assumed 
to occur. 

As intra-corpuscular bodies they usually occur singly in the blood cell, 
but sometimes several may be present together. The youngest forms ap- 
pear as minute colorless specks; as seen in the fresh blood they exhibit 
amoeboid movement and show marked variation in shape, the amount and 
character of the movement varying with the type of the fever. As these 
bodies increase in size they become gradually pigmented with dark brown 
or black specks. The pigment may be scattered through their substance 
or be concentrated at one or more points, and often shows vibratory move- 
ment. The red corpuscles invaded may remain unaltered in appearance 
or may be either swollen or shrunken. Sometimes, namely in the quotid- 
ian and malignant fevers, the parasite passes into a quiescent ring form, 
showing in this condition a well-defined outer circular margin, the pigment 
being usually collected in a small clump at one side. These ring forms 
may again assume amoeboid movement. Within the red corpuscle the 
parasite gradually increases in size until the full adult form is reached, 
when the parasite loses its amoeboid movement more or less completely, 
has a somewhat rounded form and contains a considerable amount of pig- 
ment. The adult parasites may then undergo segmentation, but not aU of 
them do so many become degenerated and ultimately break down. 



702 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

In the process of segmentation or sporulation, the pigment becomes col- 
lected into a small central mass ; and from it, as a center, lines radiate and 
divide the protoplasm into regular segments, producing a characteristic 
rosette appearance. The segments or spores thus formed vary in number 
and size in different types of fever. They are more or less rounded in 
shape and are set free in the blood plasma. The pigment granules 
remain apart from the spores, sometimes surrounded by .a portion of the 
substance of the parasite, and are chiefly taken up by leucocytes. The 
process of segmentation, however, does not occur in all forms of malarial 




i> 





FIG. 340. Dried Blood-Films Showing Malarial Parasites, Magnified About 1,000 Diameters. A, Early in- 
traoorpusoular form of tertian parasite; B, large intracorpuscular form of same parasite, showing 
scattered pigment granules, with enlargement of invaded corpuscle: C, two members of the rosette 
series of the same parasite, with early and radiate segmentation ; 1>. two ring-forms of the quotidian 
parasite ; //', crescentic body ; F, flagellated organism, derived outside the body from a crescentic 
form. (After Muir and Ritchie.) 

fever in this radiate fashion, but in some it takes place more or less irregu- 
larly. 

In addition to the forms which appear to constitute stages in this regu- 
lar cycle of development within the body, there are two others, the cres- 
centic and flagellated organisms. 

The first-named organisms are non-amoeboid, and are of crescentic or 
sausage shape. Occasionally a fine curved line is seen joining the extrem- 
ities on their concave aspect, which probably represents the remains of a 
red corpuscle. They are colorless and transparent, have a distinct and en- 
closing membrane, and usually show a small collection of granular pigment 
about their middle. These crescentic bodies are usually regarded as result- 
ing from the fusion of the intracorpuscular bodies. They are not found in 
all types of the fever, but occur especially in the quotidian and aestivo- 
autumnal types, and apparently do not represent a stage in the ordinary 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 703 

cycle of development. They appear in the blood after the fever has lasted 
for some time, apparently remain unchanged through attacks of pyrexia, 
and may persist after the fever has gone being often present in the 
cachexia or anaemia following these fevers. 

If a drop of blood be examined under the microscope for some time, 
flagellated organisms may be found. So far as known, these do not occur 
as such in the circulating blood, but appear only in blood outside the body. 
They are derived either from the crescents or from the larger pigmented 
intra-corpuscular bodies. Muir and Ritchie state that in the former case 
the crescents alter their shape; becoming straight, oval and ultimately 
spherical. The pigment granules first become arranged as a ring, and after- 
ward show a peculiar vibratory movement that is apparently produced 
by flagella which have formed within the sphere. When this stage is 
reached, the flagella, usually three or four though sometimes more, are pro- 
truded through the envelop and present a rapid lashing action. The fla- 
gella are very delicate filaments with sometimes a slight bulbous swelling 
at the free extremity. They may afterward become detached and move 
away with an active independent movement. In the case of their devel- 
opment from the large iutra-eorpuseular bodies, the pigment shows an agi- 
tated movement in the. same way, and ultimately the flagella are protruded. 

There has been, and is, great diversity of opinion concerning the nature 
of the crescentic and flagellated bodies. The view most generally accepted 
is that the former represent a sort of resting form for the life of the malarial 
organism outside of the body, the first stage of which is the flagellated condi- 
tion. The view has been advanced that the flagella are really flagellated 
spores which undergo further change, and that this probably occurs in 
suctorial insects which have taken up blood containing the parasite ; and 
Ross has found that in the stomach of the mosquito many of the crescents 
become spherical and develop into flagellated forms. 

The principal differentiating characteristics of the different varieties of 
the parasite may be enumerated as follows : 

In the quartan type of infection the parasite passes through its cycle 
of development in three days, and all the various stages are found in the 
blood. Only the smaller forms within the red corpuscles show amoeboid 
movements, and these are not of a very active character. The red corpus- 
cles invaded by the parasite do not become decolorized or altered in size, 
and the pigment granules are somewhat coarse. Typical rosette forms are 
seen in the process of sporulation, which results in the formation of six to 
twelve segments or spores. In fresh blood, these spores show a central 
clear spot which is not seen in the spores of the tertian parasite. 

In the tertian form, the cycle of development of the parasite is com- 
pleted in forty-eight hours. The young forms within the red corpuscles 
show much more active movement than in the quartan type and give off 
longer and more slender processes, while the pigment granules are finer. 
The invaded corpuscles are pale and swollen. Sporulation, resulting in 
the formation of from fifteen to twenty round spores, takes place by means 
of a rosette or sunflower formation, the lines of segmentation being at the 
periphery and a portion remaining around the central collection of pigment. 

In the quotidian form, most commonly observed in the tropics, the 
cycle of development is complete in twenty-four hours. Within the red 



704 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

corpuscle the parasite is of small size, and even in its adult condition, im- 
mediately before sporulation, it does not usually occupy more than a third 
of the corpuscle. The amoeboid forms often pass into the ring form already 
described. In the course of their development they acquire a very fine 
dust-like pigment, and in the adult quiescent form the pigment becomes 
collected into a small dark body. The spores, usually six or eight in num- 
ber, are formed by irregular segmentation and are very minute. The process 
of sporulatiou takes place almost exclusively in the internal organs, and as 
a rule sporulating forms are not observed in the peripheral blood. 

In the malignant or aestivo-autumnal type of the fever the parasite 
closely resembles that of the quotidian. Its cycle of development, how- 
ever, apparently occupies forty-eight hours, and the young parasite may 
be without pigment for twenty-four hours. The malignant parasites do 
not mature in groups, but independently as it were parasites in all stages 
of development being met with in the same specimen. The amoeboid ac- 
tivity is manifested even in the adult pigmented forms. In this variety 
of fever ring forms frequently occur. 

In the quotidian and aestivo-autumnal varieties, the red corpuscles in- 
vaded have a tendency to shrivel and assume a deeper or coppery tint. 
When a fatal result occurs, large numbers of parasites, many in process of 
segmentation, may be found in the brain and internal organs. In some 
fatal cases, with coma, the cerebral capillaries may appear to be almost 
tilled with them. 

Irregular types of fever, sometimes of continued character, may be in- 
duced by infection with different generations of the same variety of para- 
site, or by infection with different varieties. 

Though the malarial parasites have not been cultivated on artificial 
media, the evidence that they are the cause of the disease is conclusive. 
They are always present in the affection and are found in no condition 
apart from malaria. Their cycle of development also corresponds in a 
remarkable manner with the course of the fever, each febrile attack being 
accompanied by the appearance of a new generation of parasites in the 
blood. In all probability the fever is produced by toxic bodies set 
free by the young parasites, but this point is scarcely susceptible of 
proof. The presence of the parasites in the red blood corpuscles, and the 
destruction of substance which takes place in the latter, explain the occur- 
rence of the anaemia which so often results ; and the subsequent distribu- 
tion and storage of the altered haemoglobin, obtained in the destruction of 
the red corpuscles, explain the pigmentary changes in the various organs. 
As repeatedly shown by experiment, the disease can be communicated 
from one person to another by injecting blood containing the parasites ; 
infection occurring most certainly when the injection is intravenous. In 
such cases there is an incubation period of from seven to fourteen days before 
the fever occurs ; the same type of disease being reproduced as was present 
in the patient from whom the blood was taken. Recent experiments have 
demonstrated that the disease may be transmitted from an infected to a 
healthy individual through the agency of the mosquito. It may be men- 
tioned that in certain affections of birds and reptiles, parasites of somewhat 
similar character to those in malaria, but of distinct species, occur in the 
blood. Artificial injection of blood from an infected bird into a healthy 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 705 

one invariably produces the disease ; and the same occurs when mosquitoes 
which have sucked the blood of diseased birds are allowed to bite healthy 
ones. In fact, in the latter case, the immature forms of the infecting agent 
have been directly traced to the salivary glands in these insects. 

Manner of Infection. Since the malarial parasite has not been ob- 
served outside the body, and nothing is known concerning its extra-corpo- 
real existence, it is impossible to speak with certainty as to all the modes 
of its entry into the system. The latter very probably occurs in several ways. 
It has recently been advanced by some that the disease is transmitted from 
man to man only by direct inoculation, the mosquito serving as the inter- 
mediate host and agent by which infection is brought about. This claim, 
however, clearly lacks substantiation. It is a matter of common observa- 
tion that the infecting organism of malaria must be able to multiply indefi- 
nitely outside the body independently of man; in fact, malaria is most 
prevalent where man is not and where human beings, through the preva- 
lence of this disease, cannot maintain an existence. Therefore this extra- 
corporeal multiplication must demand something more than a short cycle 
from man to mosquito and mosquito to man. Where this extra-corporeal 
life of the malarial parasite is spent has not yet been scientifically demon- 
strated, but both analogy and common experience point to water as neces- 
sary to its existence. As already shown, the parasite in the blood is poly- 
morphous and in the flagellated variety presents a type well fitted to pursue 
an independent existence. In water it may perhaps assume other and un- 
known forms capable under certain conditions of directly invading the organ- 
ism through the walls of the alimentary tract. Certainly this is possible to 
other somewhat similar forms of life, as in dysentery, and there is much 
evidence of a practical nature to show that a malarial infection may actu- 
ally be contracted in this way. Both Manson and Laveran believe that 
drinking-water in which infected mosquitoes have died may cause the dis- 
ease, and under such conditions a large number of active flagellated organisms 
are undoubtedly deposited in the water. Military history is full of instances 
in which outbreaks of malarial fever have occurred apparently as a result 
of the use of impure marsh-water, and under circumstances which leave 
little possibility for infection by other means. As a type of these examples 
may be mentioned the outbreak of malaria on the ship Argo, detailed 
on page 115, and, like other similar instances, never yet disproved. Fur- 
ther, military history presents many cases in which the rates for malarial 
fevers have been greatly diminished on the substitution of a pure for an 
impure water-supply. In our own service, the following instances may be 
mentioned : Fort Brown, in 1889, had an admission rate for malarial fevers 
of 1,675.86 per thousand strength, with a rate of 38.58 for constant sick- 
ness from this cause. Distilled water from the ice-machine was then pro- 
vided for the use of the troops, and the rates for 1891 became 325.91 and 
8.32 respectively. In 1892 the admission rates had fallen to 16. 13 per thou- 
sand strength and the constant sickness to .35. The rates for this post have 
never returned to even a small fraction of what they were before the intro- 
duction of distilled water, and Fort Brown has ceased to be regarded as one 
of the most malarious stations in the army. At Fort Ringgold the admis- 
sions for malarial fever, in the year 1885, amounted to 2,304 per thousand 
strength. Distilled water was supplied for the use of the troops, though its 
45 



706 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

exclusive use was not compulsory, and in 1889 the rates had fallen to 562 
per thousand strength. At this time considerable field service was performed 
by the troops stationed at Fort Kinggold, and the post surgeon reported hia 
belief that every case of malarial fever could be traced to an infection 
acquired outside the post. In 1897, the admissions for malarial fever 
at Fort Ringgold amounted to but 89.42 per thousand strength. In the 
experience of the writer, the soldiers at Jefferson Barracks were severely 
affected with malarial fevers; while after the introduction of boiled 
water a marked reduction in these affections was apparent. Among the 
officers and their families at this station, who were careful to drink boiled 
or imported spring- waters only, not a case occurred save in two children 
who were shown to drink habitually water from impure and unauthorized 
sources. Later, at Washington Barracks, it was observed that among the 
men composing two batteries of artillery, who drank unfiltered water, the 
proportion of malarial cases was four times as great as among the men of the 
Hospital Corps Company of Instruction, having an average strength of about 
one hundred and fifty men, who drank 'only water passed through Berkefeld 
filters. Such instances as the above may be largely multiplied, and serve to 
emphasize the fact that, however else the malarial organism may gain access 
to the system, its entrance by means of the water-supply should never be 
disregarded by the military sanitarian. Grawitz has recently shown, in con- 
nection with the occurrence of malaria through inoculation by mosquitoes, 
that the disease is most common in the German army during spring, wljen 
mosquitoes are not especially active; and he regards a water-supply above re- 
proach as a necessity in preventing malaria. It is true that a number of 
experiments have been made in the attempt to cause malarial infection by 
way of the alimentary tract. Healthy persons have been allowed to drink 
the water from supposedly malarious marshes; enemata of similar waters 
have been given to other individuals, and even the blood of malarial patients 
has been drunk by uninfected persons. These experiments were negative in 
their results. In the absence of positive knowledge that the water contained 
malarial organisms in the proper stage of development, the first experiments 
prove nothing; as for the experiment with the infected blood it may well 
be that in this intra-corporeal stage the parasite has little powers of resist- 
ance against the digestive juices. In the light of the instances above 
quoted, it may fairly be assumed that some important factor present in 
natural infection was inadvertently omitted from the experiment. On the 
other hand, besides abundant experimental evidence to the contrary, the 
theory that malaria is transmitted by water alone is refuted by the fact 
that men on board ships, anchored off a malarial coast, who may not have 
been on shore and have used nothing but distilled water, often contract 
the disease. There is a very general impression that infection can occur 
through the respiratory tract, though in the absence of knowledge concern- 
ing the life of the malarial parasite outside of the body it is evident that 
this point is not susceptible of absolute proof. Sleeping on the. ground, 
where the emanations of a malarious soil are inhaled during repose, has 
long been thought to favor the prevalence of the disease among soldiers. 
It should not be forgotten in this connection, however, that a wind which 
serves to carry a so-called malarial miasm may also carry insects serving 
as hosts for malarial parasites, that the period of activity of these insects 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



707 



is at night and that they are much more numerous near the level of the 
ground. 

As a result of modem investigation, the occurrence of the disease 
through inoculation by infected mosquitoes has been scientifically demon- 
strated, and it appears certain that the organism frequently gains access 
to the blood in this manner. It has not, however, been shown that mos- 
quitoes in a known malarial district harbor this parasite except after suck- 
ing the blood of an infected individual; and what part they play, if any, 
in the origination of the first cases of the disease occurring in individuals 
penetrating a previously uninhabited region has not as yet been worked 
out. It may be that the malarial organisms present in water have the 
power of entering into the malarial mosquito during its period of develop- 
ment in water in the larval stage, and thus some of these insects may be 
capable of conveying the infection 
as soon as they arrive at adult form, 
without necessarily having sucked 
blood from individuals affected with 
malaria. That healthy persons may 
be directly inoculated by mosquitoes 
which have sucked the blood of a 
diseased individual there is no doubt. 
Careful research has shown that, be- 




Fio. 341. Anopheles Punotipennls, Female, with 
Male Aiiii-nnif at Right, and Wing Tip Showing 
Venation at Left, much enlarged. (Alter Howard. ) 



ginning in the stomach as an or- 
ganism sucked up in the infected 
blood, the malarial parasite embeds 
itself in the stomach wall as a round, 
pigmented body, works its way 
through the successive coats of the 
viscus until it comes to lie under 
the outer layer, and finally bulges 
into the body cavity. By this time, 
its bulk has been so greatly increased 
by the repeated fragmentation of its 
nucleus and consequent enlargement of its contents, that it has become con- 
verted practically into a huge spore-bag full of little rod-like spores. The 
outer membrane ruptures and the spores are set free in the tissues, to find 
their way ultimately, in an as yet unexplained manner, into the salivary 
or venom glands. Here they crowd the acini in myriads, to be discharged 
into the blood of the human being during the process of biting and there 
to begin a new stage of development. 

While the mosquito then may transmit a malarial infection, it appears 
to be equally as definitely proved that only mosquitoes of a certain kind 
do so, and that many varieties of these insects play no part in the occur- 
rence of malaria in the human being. So far, the genus Anopheles alone 
has l>een shown by Ross, of the British army, to transmit the disease; 
there being of this genus three recognized species native to North America, 
while a large number of varieties are found in the tropics. The far more 
common Culex is not at all concerned in the transmission of malaria. The 
differentiation between the malaria-bearing and the harmless mosquito is 
not difficult, even to inexperienced eyes. Anopheles has a smaller head 




\ 



N. 



FIG. 342. Culex Taeniorhynchus, Female Showing the 
Short Palpi which Distinguish Culex from Anophe- 
les. Toothed front tarsal claw at right, much en- 
larged. (After Howard.) 



708 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

than Culex, while the palpi are much longer than in the latter insect, 
nearly equalling the length of the proboscis. The front tarsal claw 
of Culex is toothed, while that of Anopheles is not. Another striking 

difference is that in Anopheles the 
wings generally have several large 
spots along the anterior edge, while 
in Culex the wings are ordinarily 
plain. Ross says that this differ- 
ence holds good in all the mosqui- 
toes seen by him but there are 
nevertheless some known species 
of Anopheles without spotted 
wings and some known species of 
Culex with them. The attitudes 
assumed by these mosquitoes, when 
sitting on a wall, according to 
Ross, is characteristic ; but Howard 
found, for this country, that this 
position holds good only where the 
mosquito is resting on the ceiling. 
Anopheles holds its body almost 
at right angles to the surface on 
which it sits, its proboscis prolonging the long axis of the body. Culex, on 
the contrary, carries its body and proboscis parallel to the surface on 
which it rests. Whatever the attitude assumed by Anopheles, it is all in 
one line ; while that of Culex is invariably angular or hump-backed. In 
the resting condition, the two insects can therefore be differentiated at a 
glance. It is said by Howard that the note made by Anopheles is several 
tones lower than that of Culex. 

The life history of Anopheles has not yet been entirely worked out, but 
probably differs to no great extent from that of Culex. The eggs of the 
latter insect are laid in water, usually in boat-shaped masses, though various 
forms are assumed. The most com- 
mon form is that of a pointed el- 
lipse, all the eggs perpendicular, in 
six to thirteen rows and with three 
or four to forty eggs in a row. The 
number of eggs in each mass varies 
from two hundred to four hundred. 
As seen from above, the egg-mass 
is grayish-brown ; from below, sil- 
very-white. The eggs hatch, un- 
der favorable conditions, in about 
sixteen hours. The darker colored egg-mass of Anopheles is laid loosely 
on the surface of the water, each egg lying on its side instead of the end. 
They are not attached to each other, but naturally float s closely together. 
About forty to one hundred eggs constitute an egg-mass ; these hatching in 
three or four days. Gray was able to raise Anopheles from sun-dried mud 
and marsh-grass, from which he concludes that the eggs of this species are 
capable of resisting a considerable amount of drying. In the larval condi- 




Fio. 343. Resting Positions of Culex (at left) and 
Anopheles (at right). (After Ross.) 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



709 




FIG. 344. Egg-man of Culex, greatly enlarged. 
(After Howui.) ' 



tion, the two insects are readily distinguished from each other. The larva* 
of Culex float heads downward near the surface of the water but nearly at 
right angles to it, with the respiratory tube opening at the exact surface. 
When disturbed, they wriggle down to the bottom of the pooL The lar- 
vse of Anopheles, on the other hand, 
float flat on the surface like sticks, 
and when disturbed wriggle on the 
surface with a backward skating 
movement though if much dis- 
turbed they may subsequently sink. 
The larva; of both Culex and Anoph- 
eles are readily drowned when forced to remain below the surface, or when 
agitation of the water interferes with their supply of air. The color of An- 
opheles larva? is dark, nearly black; those of Culex are light gray or faintly 
yellowish. The larvae of Culex appear to be found almost entirely in artifi- 
cial collections of water, as in tubs, pots, broken bottles, cisterns or drains ; 
the larvae of Anopheles are almost always found in natural collections of 
water, chiefly rain-water puddles which do not dry up too quickly, which 
do not contain fish and are not liable to be scoured out by heavy rains. 
Puddles containing alga; are usually preferred, since the larva? of Anopheles 

have been shown to subsist largely 
upon this vegetable growth. 

After a minimum of about seven 
days for Culex, and about 




Fio. 346. Young Larvae of Culex Pungens, 
greatly enlarged. (After Howard.) 



or 

twelve to sixteen days for Anopheles, 
the larva? develop into pupae; these 
differ from the larvae in the great 
swelling of the thoracic segments. 
In general, the adult Culex issues 
from the pupa after about two days, 
Anopheles in five days. The female 
begins to deposit eggs shortly after- 
ward, giving about ten days as a minimum for the completion of the cycle 
with Culex, and about twenty-four days for Anopheles but the rapidity of 
development of both species varies greatly with the weather. The mos- 
quito is not a short-lived insect, as is generally supposed, but may live for 
months and habitually hibernates during the winter sea- 
son. Anopheles is said to bite almost entirely at night, 
passing the day in a dormant state in which it may be 
readily caught or destroyed. So far as known, this variety 
has not been found at an altitude of more than 1,500 feet. 
Mosquitoes can scarcely fly against the wind, and usu- 
ally drift with the air-currents. Bignami invites atten- 
tion to the fact that the precautions taken by natives of 
malarious countries against infection with this disease are always equally 
efficacious against the attacks of mosquitoes. 

Predisposing Causes. Excluded from the Arctic zone, malaria ap- 
pears to increase in frequency and virulence as the equator is approached ; 
out this progression lacks both constancy and uniformity and does not 
exactly correspond with the isothermal lines. Certain tropical countries, 




FIG. 340. Pupa of 

Culex Pungent, 
enlarged. 



710 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

like Australia and New Caledonia, are free from malaria. It has recently 
been imported into the island of Ke*union by troops returned from the 
Madagascar expedition, and now, according to Manson, causes one-third 
of the entire deaths. In general, however, the disease bears a close rela- 
tionship to warm climates, and of late years a high mortality from malaria 
lias occurred only in the tropics. In this country, the present rates for mala- 
rial disease are greatest among troops stationed in the southwest and in the 
Mississippi basin, although the few posts on the Potomac River are notori- 
ously malarial. 

During the Civil War, statistics gathered by the sanitary commission 
showed the number sick from malaria, per thousand, to be proportioned as fol- 
lows : In northern posts at a distance from the sea and Great Lakes, 151 ; in 
the lake region, 193 ; at seaboard stations, Delaware capes to Savannah, 370 ; 
on the lower Mississippi, 383 ; in eastern Florida, 520 ; in the southwest, 747. 

Among our troops now stationed in the tropics the rates are high, es- 
pecially so for those in Cuba. A comparison of the relative prevalence of 
malaria in the several tropical islands and within the United States, for 
the year 1899, is as follows: 





CUBA. 


PORTO Rico. 


PACIFIC 
ISLANDS. 


ALL TROPICAL 
ISLANDS. 


UNITED 
STATES. 


||5 


i 


Admissions 
per 1,000 
strength. 


i 


Admissions 
per 1,000 
strength. 


Deaths 
per 1,000 
strength. 


ill 


iff 


Admissions 
per 1,000 
strength. 


|^fe 

mm 


Malarial fever, 
intermittent . . 
Malarial fever, 
remittent 


729.94 
322.51 

3.94 
32.07 

1,088.46 


.25 

1.75 
.50 

2.50 


345.85 
100.62 

1.07 
11. 

458.64 


.... 


388.82 
216.45 

1.15 
17.92 

624.37 


0.20 

.46 
.23 

.89 


494.76 
246.50 

2.03 
22.03 

765.32 


0.21 

.84 
.80 

1.35 


237.84 
38.37 

.50 
14.17 

290.88 


0.07 

.12 
.02 

.21 


Malarial fever, 
pernicious .... 
Malarial cachexia 
All malarial in- 
fections 





For the world at large the relative distribution of malarial disease, as 
affected by climate, is well shown by the following figures for the British 
army, per thousand strength: 



Station. 


YEAR 1898. 


DECADE 1888-1897. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


Constantly 
sick. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


Constantly 
sick. 


United Kingdom 
Gibraltar 


9.5 

4. 
152.1 


".ii 


0.37 
.25 
4.17 

2.19 

4.13 
1.65 
15.76 
2.28 
16.95 
15.17 
15.26 
67.86 


6.3 
7.2 
14.1 
1.3 
21.9 
1.09 
62.2 
80.2 
579.2 
98. 
489.6 
95.4 
856.9 
1,815.8 


0.01 
.02 
.08 

.02 

".06 
.08 
2.76 
.87 
2.86 
.64 
.71 
52.68 


0.23 
.24 
.66 
.05 

.85 

.os 

2.58 
1.28 
25.74 

2.77 
14.39 
3.18 
12.01 
50.26 


Malta 


Canada 


Egypt and Cyprus 
Bermuda 


58.4 


.... 


West Indies 


78.5 
89.02 
380.3 
71. 
879.2 
Btt.9 
484. 
2,027.8 


3.87 
.12 
1.22 

6.87 

".76 
13.89 


South Africa 


Mauritius 




China 


Straits Settlements 
India 


West Africa 





DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



711 



At certain stations in India, malaria has been at times so prevalent 
that all drills and parades have had to be discontinued. In former times, 
the death rate from this disease was often extraordinarily high in the 
British army. Davy mentions an instance in Ceylon where every white 
soldier sent to a certain station contracted malarial fever ; and states that out 
of a total strength of 254 men there were 205 deaths from this affection. 
, Next to climate, the influence of season appears to be of the most im- 
portance; the rates for troops throughout the United States attaining the 
maximum in September and the minimum in February as is well shown 
in the following diagram. 

The relationship between malarial infection and marshy and swampy 
localities has long been recognized. Malaria, however, has been known 




Year 1885. 



Ifcvaile 1875-84. 



Fio. 347. Diagram Illustnitinpr the Distribution of Canes of Malarial Fever by Months, per Thousand 
Strvrnrth, Occurring In the United States Army. Also showing the constant reduction of malarial in- 
fections. 

to occur in localities not especially marshy and, on the other hand, to be 
absent from regions wet and swampy. Of this latter fact the city of 
Mexico, surrounded by lakes and marshes, furnishes a conspicuous exam- 
ple. It must be admitted, however, that malarial disease is much more 
frequent on marshy coasts and low, humid plains than on higher ground 
where drainage of the soil is more complete, and a certain amount of moist- 
ure in the soil is appeareiitly essential to the development of the malarial 
virus. Marshes that are alternately flooded and partially drained of water 
offer conditions most favorable to the development of malaria. Under such 
conditions the profusion of rank vegetation, together with decaying organic 
matter, does much to favor it; though it may sometimes occur on barren, 
sandy soils with high ground-water, particularly if the soil be organically 
contaminated. The broad, alluvial deltas of great rivers and the valleys 
of smaller streams are, in warm climates, usually malarious. The break- 
ing or clearing of new lands, in malarious regions, usually results in an 
outbreak of the disease in the immediate vicinity ; but by prolonged culti- 



712 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

vation, malaria becomes less frequent and severe and may finally disappear. 
The geological character of a soil appears to play a somewhat important part 
in the production of the virus. An impervious surface-soil, which does not 
readily become saturated with moisture but favors the rapid shedding of 
storm water, is not regarded as favorable to the development of the disease. 
A permeable, shallow surface-soil lying over an impervious stratum may 
favor the development of malaria under conditions of very moderate rain- 
fall. In general, excessive or prolonged rain-fall favors the occurrence of 
the disease. At high altitudes, the disease disappears or becomes infre- 
quent ; in the tropics it is said that a height of as much as 2,000 feet is 
usually necessary to secure a fair immunity. In the Philippines, however, 
a very virulent type of malaria appears to prevail in the more mountainous 
districts. 

While troops may be attacked by malaria when on board ship, this is 
?v)w rarely the case in practice. During the disastrous expedition of the 
French in Madagascar, in 1895, it is said that not a single fatal case of 
malaria occurred on board the thirty vessels constantly maintained off the 
coast, and many striking instances to the same effect have been recorded. 
There is a general conviction that the malarious virus may be carried by 
winds. In malarious regions near the coast, the land breezes, especially if 
they traverse neighboring marshes, appear to favor the disease, while sea 
breezes do not. Many localities which might be otherwise highly suspi- 
cious, but which are continually wind-swept, are often free from the affec- 
tion. Under ordinary circumstances, the virus of malaria does not usually 
ascend very high above the level of the ground ; troops on the upper floors of 
barracks may largely escape the disease where those on the lower floors con- 
tract it. There is evidence, however, that the malarial infection may be car- 
ried to high altitudes by strong winds blowing up narrow unhealthful valleys. 
The recognition of the mosquito as an agent for the transmission of this 
disease has done much to explain the influence of air-currents in this re- 
spect ; and the same may also be said with regard to the supposedly bane- 
ful influence of night air, since the malarial mosquito is not active during 
daylight. Davy says of certain British troops in Ceylon that they were 
largely exempt from malarial fever as long as they were employed by day 
only ; so soon as they were employed more by night than by day, particu- 
larly in convoys and the relieving of posts, fever became very prevalent and 
destructive. Of one company seventy strong, which was forced to sleep 
out in the jungle for a single night, he states that every man contracted 
fever and many died. Lemure gives an instance of a garrison of fifty 
French soldiers in Madagascar, of which at the end of two months six 
were dead, twelve had been invalided home and all the remainder presented 
malarial infections. At the same time, the sanitary condition was good 
among a body of marinesf at the same station and performing the same 
duty, but who returned to their ship at night to sleep. 

Experience shows that negroes, native to and living in a maMrious 
country, possess an undoubted immunity to malarial fevers. This immu- 
nity, however, is lost to a considerable extent after long residence in a non- 
malarious climate, and does not exist to any very great extent among negroes 
native to regions where this disease does not commonly prevail. The differ- 
ence in respect to susceptibility between white strangers and native blacks 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



713 



is, however, great. In the British expedition up the Niger, of 145 whites 
and 158 negroes, there were 130 cases of fever with 40 deaths among the 
whites, while there occurred among the negroes but 11 mild cases, and 
these only in individuals who had passed several years in England. In 
West Africa, Great Britain has found it scarcely possible to retain white 
soldiers, and the garrisons are composed almost wholly of native negroes. 
For the decade 1888-97, the admission rates for malaria in West Africa 
was 1,815.8 for the whites, in spite of special precautions taken to prevent 
their infection, and but 990.9 among the negro troops. The death rate 
from this affection among the whites and negroes was 52.63 among the 
former, and but 5.75 among the latter. In our own service, the rates for 
malaria during time of peace are invariably higher among the whites than 
in the colored troops, although the difference is but slight as compared 
with the figures just given. During the war with Spain, the figures were 
reversed and the rates for colored troops were much higher than for the 




Fio. 348. Admissions, per Thousand of each class, for Malarial Fevers in the United States Army, Arranged 
According to Age, during the Seven Years 1880-96. 

white. This, however, is readily to be explained by the fact that the 
negro troops were nearly all engaged in the tropics, while many of the 
white soldiers, especially those in the artillery and cavalry, were not moved 
from the United States, or in some cases from their usual posts. Among 
our white soldiers, the native-born American appears to be slightly more 
susceptible to malarial infection than are the men of foreign birth ; thus, 
for the seven years 1890-96, the admissions for malaria, per thousand 
strength, amounted to 84.24 for American-bom whites; 81.94 for soldiers 
of Irish birth and 74.67 for those of German nativity. 

As is the case with nearly all other diseases, age is a factor of great 
importance in predisposing to malarial infection, as is conclusively shown 
in the preceding diagram. 

During time of peace, for the seven years 1890-96, the admission rates 
for malarial disease, according to the branch of service, were proportioned 
as follows: 

Per 
1,000 of each class. 

Ordnance . . . 60.91 



Per 
1,000 of each clan. 

Artillery 168.24 

Engineers 130.66 

Cavalry 110.79 



Medical department 55.81 

Infantry 46.28 



Many of the sea-coast fortifications garrisoned by artillery are notably 



714 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

malarious, as is the station of the engineer troops. The greater prevalence 
of the disease in the cavalry as compared with infantry is to be explained 
by the greater proportion of field service performed by the former. 

Malarial fevers are much more common among soldiers than officers ; 
thus for the seven years 1890-96, the admissions in our army, per thou- 
sand strength, were 81.74 for enlisted men and 40.20 for officers. 

Common experience shows that a considerable number of individuals, 
exposed to the malarial poison, escape infection. While this may be due 
to a racial insusceptibility, as already mentioned, the strongest predisposing 
element in the development of disease, to which malaria is no exception, is 
a lowering of vital resistance through unsanitary surroundings, bad food, 
exhaustion or exposure. Among these factors, physical exhaustion is not 
of the least importance and in this connection Coustan calls attention to 
the fact that in the Madagascar expedition the proportion of deaths among 
the French officers was 1:16.6, while among the soldiers, who were ex- 
hausted by the carrying of heavy burdens and long marching, the proportion 
was 3:5. Under-fed or fasting troops are very susceptible to malarial influ- 
ences, and early -morning drills before breakfast, or late guard duty, are 
es}>ecially favoring factors. Exposure to heat undoubtedly exerts a predis- 
posing influence to malarial infection, and the same is commonly believed 
to be the case with respect to alcoholic excesses. 

The acclimation of troops in a malarious country cannot be counted 
upon, military experience showing that the mortality from this disease 
increases with the length of the sojourn. One attack of malaria, unlike 
the eruptive fevers, predisposes to another; and it is a rule in the French 
service to select for expeditions in the tropics only such as have not previ- 
ously suffered from the disease. 

After residence in a malarious country, with or without symptoms de- 
noting an existing malarial infection, the disease often appears in a sharp 
or persistent form after removal to a region in which malaria does not origi- 
nate. This has commonly been observed in recruits sent from malarious 
stations to healthful districts in the west, and was particularly evident 
among our troops returned from Santiago. 

Prophylaxis. This depends upon the application of both special and 
general measures of prevention, and of these the former are probably of the 
most importance. In the avoidance of malarial infection by inoculation, 
it is evident that troops should be shielded against the attacks of insects; 
and further, that the insects should be destroyed. From the nature of 
military service, it is obvious that soldiers cannot at all times avoid being 
bitten by mosquitoes, especially in the field; much may, however, be 
accomplished to this end, and the less the number of bites the fewer are 
the chances of infection. In garrison, all doors and windows should be 
provided with screens and mosquito bars should be attached to all beds. 
The nets should be square, should be hung inside a frame work, f and 
should be tucked carefully under the mattress all around and stretched 
tightly better to allow the passage of air. The mesh may be fairly coarse, 
but must be free from rents. Care should be taken to destroy all mos- 
quitoes within the netting before going to sleep; this being best accom- 
plished by having an assistant hold a light at one corner outside the net, 
toward which the insects fly and are readily despatched. In the field, in 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 715 

malarious districts, soldiers should be furnished with squares of mosquito 
net or head-nets for use at night. The weight need not amount to more 
than a couple of ounces, and such a protection would conduce much to 
comfort and health and amply repay its carriage. In camps, smudges 
made of green boughs lighted to windward, so that the smoke blows over 
the men, are often of great value; for this purpose the eucalyptus boughs 
are said to be especially valuable, the mosquito having an especial antip- 
athy to this tree. Any essential oil, as oil of pennyroyal, smeared in small 
quantity over the exposed surface or dropped on the pillow, may keep ott' 
these insects, but since these, substances are volatile they require to be fre- 
quently renewed. In Italy, slices of onions are often used for the same 
purpose^ Mosquitoes which have gained access to barracks or quarters 
may be destroyed mechanically, or by the fumes from burning pyrethrum 
powder, tobacco or even green wood. The vapor of turpentine also kills 
them ; and an excellent way of destroying those resting on the ceiling is 
to raise up under them cups containing a little mineral oil, into which 
the stupefied insects fall on inhaling the vapor. Leggings are an excellent 
protection for the ankles against these insects, but gloves or head-nets can 
rarely be worn on the march. Since patients suffering from malaria are 
capable of directly infecting others through the agency of mosquitoes, they 
should always be treated under mosquito-netting; and this precaution 
should be continued for weeks after the actual fever has disappeared, cer- 
tainly so long as repeated microscopical examination shows the presence of 
the malarial organism in the blood. 

Where mosquitoes are present in barracks, suitable conditions for their 
development are usually found close by, as these insects rarely travel any 
great distance. In the case of Anopheles, these breeding-places are small 
stagnant pools. Where these cannot be filled up or drained, recourse 
should habitually be had to culicides for the destruction of the larvae and 
pupa?. For this purpose, the substance most available for military use is 
mineral oil ; this being sprinkled over the surface of the water, as with a 
broom, until a fine film is produced which destroys the larvae by cutting 
off the supply of air and choking their air-tubes. The adult insects, 
which subsequently alight on the surface to deposit their eggs, are also 
destroyed. This film must spread over the entire surface of the water and 
should have a permanency of at least three days, to kill the larvae as they 
are hatched from the eggs. The quantity of oil required naturally varies 
with the conditions met with ; but for small still pools probably one ounce 
of kerosene to each fifteen square feet of water-surface is sufficient. Sur- 
face vegetation, sometimes very abundant, may often obstruct the mechan- 
ical action of the oil, and in waters even very slightly running it must be 
frequently or continuously renewed. Petroleum, also, has the disadvan- 
tage of evaporating somewhat rapidly in warm weather. Strong infusions 
of tobacco are fatal to the larvae; and they are destroyed by powdered 
chrysanthemum flowers, as now found in commercial insect powders, in the 
proportion of three parts in the million. Recently Celli and Casagrandi 
have shown that gallol, in the proportion of seven parts to the million, is 
the most certain and effective agent in destroying the larvae, and possesses 
the additional advantage of great permanency. Whatever be the special 
method of destruction employed, the life history of the mosquito shows 



716 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

that it should be repeated at intervals of about ten days. The introduction 
of small fish or minnows into tishless breeding-places of the mosquito is of 
great importance, as these feed greedily upon the larvae and soon exterminate 
them. 

General measures of prophylaxis have been shown by experience to be 
of value in the prevention of malaria. It is not advisable to take an army 
into a malarious country during the fever season, and in localities where the 
disease prevails to great extent it is well to retire to high ground during the 
malarial period, as is done by the English in India and Jamaica and by 
the French in Guadeloupe. In locating a camp or post in a malarious dis- 
trict, special care should be taken in the selection of a salubrious site. In 
general, the appearance of the natives will give some knowledge as to the 
relative prevalence of this disease among them. 

The abandonment of highly malarious posts, in time of peace, is much 
to V>e desired and can usually be accomplished. The retention of unhealth- 
ful stations is at the expense of unnecessary suffering, and in the past many 
thousands of lives have been uselessly sacrificed to tenacity of position. 
With marching troops, zones of malarious country should be avoided or 
passed over as quickly as possible. The abolition of marshes by flooding 
or drainage, and the removal of adjacent shrubbery and rank vegetation 
are great prophylactic measures in reducing malaria in a garrison. Plants 
of rapid growth should be cultivated for the assistance which they give in 
removing moisture from the soil. For this purpose the eucalpytus, castor- 
oil plant and sunflower appear to be most satisfactory ; these not only dry- 
ing the ground but being shunned by mosquitoes. Subsoil drainage is 
often of great value, but this can rarely be thoroughly carried out in the 
military service. Barracks for hot, malarious climates should be raised on 
piers, be cemented underneath and be of two stories. All water used for 
drinking purposes should be sterilized by heat. Food should be abundant 
and nutritious. Distributions of hot coffee for those on guard at night, or 
who are engaged in arduous labor, are often of value. The use of quinine as 
a prophylactic, where troops are temporarily exposed to marked malarial in- 
fluences, is of great importance, as has.,been repeatedly demonstrated. Not 
only are the cases of malarial infection greatly decreased in number by its 
use, but the character of the cases which occur is favorably modified. In 
general, a dose of five grains once daily will be sufficient, preferably taken 
shortly before any unusual exposure is anticipated. In a malarious country, 
the routine issue of quinine after anything lowering the resistive power, 
such as a forced march, wetting or lack of food, has much to commend it. 
In the Italian army, arsenious acid has been tried in the prevention of 
malaria, but with little satisfaction. Exposure, particularly to heat and 
night air, and over-exertion should be avoided. If disturbance of the soil 
be necessary, as little ground as possible should be disturbed at one time and 
the work should not be begun too early in the day. As few men as practicable 
should be employed in the work, and only such as have not had a previous 
malarial infection ; and the same applies to the composition of expeditionary 
forces into fever districts. 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



717 



MEASLES. 

Occurrence. Among troops, measles is of frequent occurrence. Un- 
der certain circumstances, when developed under conditions of want, hard- 
ship, exposure and bad sanitation and especially when associated with a 
scorbutic taint the disease may assume an extremely severe and fatal 
character. Formerly, the occurrence of the hemorrhagic form of measles 
was not infrequent among troops and was much dreaded. The exposure 
in the treatment of measles cases in tent-hospitals, often unavoidable, does 
much to develop secondary bronchitis and pneumonia ; and to these latter 
causes is to be attributed, also, much of the gravity which the disease 
has assumed when prevailing among troops during the existence of hostili- 
ties. In garrison, the mortality from this disease is usually small; for the 
period of peace 1885-94, in our army, the death rate was but one one- 
hundred-and-tenth of the rate given by the Registrar-General for the total 
population of England and Wales, for the same cause, during the same 
period. From 1832 to 1859, however, according to Rosse, measles was 
the cause of 2.7 per cent, of deaths from all causes occurring in the garri- 
son of Paris. During the Civil War there were, in the Union forces, 75,- 
177 cases with 5, 174' deaths; the admissions per thousand strength, during 
this period, amounting to 31.72 and the deaths to 2.02. Among the Con- 
federate troops, Eve states that measles prevailed to such an extent that 
whole companies, battalions and even regiments, under organization, had 
to be disbanded and the men sent home. During the siege of Metz, 
measles was extremely prevalent and fatal in the garrison. In our army, 
for the period 1868-98, there occurred a total of 3,733 cases with 15 
deaths, giving an admission rate, per thousand strength, of 4.50 and a 
death rate of .017. 

The disease appears to be relatively more prevalent now than formerly 
among our troops, the rates being as follows : 



Period. 


Admissions 
per 1,000 strength. 


Deaths 
per 1,000 strength. 


1868-84.. 


1.88 


8.004 


1885-94 


4.85 


.004 


1895-98 


18.72 


.09 









The expansion of the army by a large number of susceptible recruits 
at the outbreak of the war with Spain, and their aggregation in large camps 
where the communication of the disease was favored, did much to raise 
the rates for admissions and mortality during the last period given above, 
the admissions for measles during the year 1898 being 25.09 per thou- 
sand strength, and the deaths amounting to .26 per thousand; while 
for the previous year of peace, 1897, the admission rate was only .82 per 
thousand, with no deaths. In the German army, the rates of admission for 
measles, per thousand strength, for varying periods, have been uniformly 
low, as follows: 

1881-82 to 1885-86 .. 1.4 

1886-87 to 1890-91 1.5 

1891-92 to 1895-96 0.83 

Year 1896-97.. 1.1 



718 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

In the French army, the rate of admission per thousand strength, for 
the five years 1890-94, was 9.71. Coustan believes that the system pre- 
vailing in the French army, of turning into a common magazine certain 
articles of the equipment worn annually for a few weeks during the field 
manoeuvers, greatly favors the dissemination of the infection of measles 
and hence partially explains the high rates to be observed in that army. 
In the Austrian service, for the year 1897, the admission rate was only 8 
per thousand, but the proportionate mortality was high, .02. 

Colored troops appear to be less susceptible to measles than are whites, 
but certain mild cases are more liable to escape recognition in the former 
class; the rates of admission in our army for measles, in 1898, were 25.91 
per thousand whites and 14.42 for colored troops. During the Civil War, 
however, the rates were 30.41 for white, and 46.65 for colored troops this 
excess as regards the negroes being apparently due to lessened efforts for 
the control of the disease among them. The disease occurs far more fre- 
quently among recruits than old soldiers ; in the Civil War, the number of 
cases depending upon the proportion of susceptible individuals and occur- 
ring particularly in country-bred recruits. For the French army, Coustan 
gives the following figures with respect to length of service as influencing 
the occurrence of measles : 



Year. 


Less than one year service, 
admissions per 1,000 strength. 


More than one year service, 
admissions per 1,000 strength. 

- - 


1891 


2363 


12.69 


1892 


9.62 


4.04 


1893 


11 98 


6.08 


1894 


14.80 


7.91 









In our own service, measles prevails to by far the greatest extent at the 
recruiting depots; the recruits at Columbus Barracks, in 1892, furnishing 
more than half the cases occurring in the entire army. 

The disease, in this country, ordinarily occurs most frequently during 
cold weather, when ventilation is comparatively restricted and the oppor- 
tunity for infection is most favorable. During 1898, when the propor- 
tionate number of recruits was great, the rate of admission was by far the 
highest during June and July thus showing the greater importance of 
length of service as compared with season in influencing the prevalence of 
this disease. During the same year, the admission rate was 19.82 per 
thousand soldiers stationed within the United States, while there was a 
total rate of 48.25 for the troops serving in the West Indies and the islands 
of the Pacific. The case mortality of measles, as already noted, is capable 
of varying within very wide limits, ranging from as little as 1 or 2 per cent, 
in some outbreaks to 40 or 50 per cent, in others. "In Paris, during the 
siege (January, 1871), out of 215 of the Garde Mobile who took measles, 
86, or 40 per cent., died; and the mortality reached very nearly the same 
figures among the French troops who returned to Paris after the Italian 
War, 40 out of 129 cases dying in one hospital whose sanitary condition 
was bad." As in typhus fever, the concentration of a large number of 
measles cases, with deficient ventilation, appears unfavorably to affect the 
Drognosis and course of the disease. 

Infection and Dissemination. From analogy, it may be assumed 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 719 

that the cause of measles is a specific micro-organism, but as yet its special 
nature has not been determined. The infection is presumably given off' 
by the breath and mucus from the catarrhal surfaces, also by exfoliated 
epidermis. The poison is undoubtedly capable of being air-borne, and 
tends to cling to fomites and to remain in ill-ventilated spaces. The 
infectious agent is very tenacious of life ; and where it once fairly estab- 
lishes itself, as is apparently the case at present at Columbus Barracks, 
annual epidemics are the rule. There is no evidence that the disease is 
transmissible by water or food ; infection probably always occurs through 
inhalation. The disease is not infrequently introduced among troops in 
garrison by children. The incubation period varies from eight to twenty 
days, the usual limit being about eleven days. The infectivity begins with 
the earliest symptoms ; it is greatest while the catarrh and rash are pres- 
ent, and probably extends well into convalescence. As a general rule, in- 
fectiousuess is over by the end of the fourth week, provided that cough and 
desquamation have ceased. One attack of measles usually confers immu- 
nity as regards future infections. 

Prophylaxis. In view of the fact that measles is mild under favor- 
able conditions and may be very fatal when the patients are exposed to in- 
clemencies of weather, it was seriously advised, during the Civil War, to 
infect all susceptible recruits with this disease on their enlistment and 
thus insure their immunity before sending them to join their regiments 
in the field. In civil life, vigorous efforts are rarely made to prevent the 
spread of measles, but in the military service the opposite should be the 
case; bearing in mind that this disease is never devoid of danger and, 
particularly in the field, may at any time assume a grave character. Fur- 
ther, it causes the loss of a considerable amount of service by troops to 
which the state is entitled. The efforts toward prevention include the iso- 
lation of the sick and the disinfection of all contaminated clothing, bedding 
and surroundings. The discharges should be disinfected, particularly those 
from the mouth and eyes. For receiving the latter, soft rags should be 
employed and these burned after use. As far as the patient is concerned, 
Cameron concludes that "so far as figures are of value, ample air-space, free 
draft, freedom from overcrowding and from effluvium nuisances conduce 
most to recovery." 

In the spring of 1898 the writer began some investigations with re- 
gard to the production of an artificial immunity against measles. The 
experiments were abruptly interrupted by field service, but appeared to be 
distinctly favorable so far as carried out. The method employed consisted 
in the subcutaneous injection of blood-serum obtained from convalescents 
from measles by means of cantharidal blisters. The injections were made 
in children living in an infected garrison, about 5 c.c. being administered 
in three doses at intervals of about forty-eight hours. None of the cases 
so inoculated contracted the disease, while a considerable proportion of the 
susceptible and uuinoculated children became infected. 

MUMPS. 

Mumps occurs very frequently among soldiers, especially young sol- 
diers, but its mortality is practically nil and it becomes of importance 
merely from the temporary disability for military service which it causes. 



720 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

In a total of 3,122 cases of mumps occurring in the United States army 
for the thirty-one years 1868-98, inclusive, there was not a single death 
which could be attributed to this affection. The admission rate for mumps 
during the period 1868-84 was 2.99 per thousand strength; for 1885-94 
it was 5.08, and for 1895-98 it was 4.05. The rate of admissions for the 
entire period, 1868-98 inclusive, was 3.76 per thousand. 

In the military service, mumps usually prevails in well-defined epi- 
demics, and a large proportion of the cases occur in recruits. The aggrega- 
tion of such young men at certain stations, for purposes of instruction, is 
very favorable to the appearance of this disease; and in 1894, out of 337 
cases of mumps occurring in the army, there were 119 cases at the two 
recruiting depots of Columbus Barracks and Jefferson Barracks, while in 
the previous year, out of a total of 149 cases, 43 cases occurred at the first 
named station. Orchitis and atrophy of the testicle are very common among 
soldiers affected with mumps, being present in about one-third of the cases. 
Coustan states that in an epidemic among French soldiers, in 1891, every 
man attacked by mumps developed orchitis; while Laveran found it 211 
times in 699 cases. The infectious agent is supposed to be given off by 
the breath and the secretions of the mouth, but as yet no specific organism 
has been isolated. It is not conspicuously disseminated by means of fo- 
mites ; in garrison, it frequently appears to be introduced from outside by 
children. The period of incubation is reckoned as from fourteen to twenty- 
five days, and the case is regarded as infectious while there is any in- 
flammation or .tenderness of the salivary glands. Sanitary precautions con- 
sist in the isolation of the patient and the disinfection of his clothing and 
equipment. Beyond the cleansing and disinfection of the cuspidors in the 
squad room, no further preventive measures, in view of the comparative 
triviality of the affection, will usually be necessary. Among soldiers, 
outbreaks of mumps not infrequently occur in close association with 
measles, but this apparent relationship is probably to be regarded as acci- 
dental. The disease is most common during the colder weather. 

PLAGUE. 

Occurrence. With the recent appearance of plague in the Philippine 
and Hawaiian Islands, this disease at once assumes a practical importance 
in relation to our military service. Plague has not, in recent years, figured 
to any extent among the diseases affecting troops of any nationality ; but 
numerous military epidemics have been reported in the past. The de- 
struction of the Assyrian army, recorded in II Kings, was probably due to 
plague; and the disease described by Thucydides as affecting the 200,000 
men immured in Athens, in the Peloponnesian War, presented the symp- 
toms of the catarrhal form of this disease. Plague ravaged the armies of 
the Crusaders, and it is said that in the first crusade no less than 50,000 
men perished from this disease before Antioch. The soldiers of Cromwell 
died of plague as well as typhus ; and it prevailed among both French and 
English during the first occupation of Egypt. In 18 1 6 it was imported into 
Arabia by the Egyptian army, and has since prevailed there endemically. 
A military epidemic of this disease is said to have occurred as late as 1828, 
in the Russian expedition against Turkey. Plague prevails endemically in 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 721 

China, western Asia, northern Africa, and perhaps India ; from which points 
it has from time to time extended. It has recently been carried to Uru- 
guay, Brazil, Mexico, and, in this country, California. It has also been 
lately transported to New Zealand, Madagascar, South Africa, New Guinea 
and a number of islands in the Pacific, among which are our own possessions. 

Cause. Plague is caused by a specific bacillus; found in large num- 
bers in the suppurating glands and to a less extent in the blood. Under 
these conditions it appears as a small oval rod, somewhat smaller than the 
typhoid bacillus. The ends are rounded, and in stained preparations a 
portion is sometimes left uncolored in the middle of the bacillus. Stain- 
ing is readily accomplished by any of the ordinary aniline dyes. The 
bacillus is decolorized by Gram's method of staining. In the tissues, the 
bacilli are found scattered among the cells, for the most part lying singly, 
though pairs are also seen ; but in cultures, especially in fluids, they have 
a tendency to grow in chains. They are not spore-forming, are actively 
motile and have been shown to possess flagella, 
which, however, stain with difficulty. The ba- 
cillus is readily cultivated on ordinary media at 
body temperature. It grows on solidified blood 
serum, without causing liquefaction, as a yellow- 
ish-gray deposit; the colonies appearing as cir- 
cular discs having a smooth shining surface. 
When cultures on agar, with a dry surface and 
slightly alkaline reaction, are incubated at body 
temperature, involution forms rapidly appear. 
These are seen on the third day and present 
the most varied forms ; Haffkine states that some i*r Abbott.) 
reach a size many times that of the healthy ba- 
cillus. In bouillon, the growth usually forms a slightly granular or pow- 
dery deposit at the bottom and sides of the flask. If the bouillon be kept 
absolutely at rest, flakes form at the surface, and growth extends downward 
from these, forming the so-called "stalactites." These columns of growth 
are easily broken up when the flask is moved, and fall to the bottom as a 
powdery deposit. Haffkine regards this feature, together with the involu- 
tion forms on dry agar, as of great importance in the recognition of the or- 
ganism. In its powers of resistance, the plague bacillus corresponds to 
the other spore-free bacilli and is readily killed by heat. It resists dry- 
ing for four days at the longest, and exposure to direct sunlight for three or 
four hours destroys it. When cultivated outside the body, the bacillus 
rapidly loses its virulence. 

Predisposing Causes. The mortality from bubonic plague varies 
with different epidemics. Eace exerts a marked influence both on the 
occurrence of the disease and the mortality. Of late years, whites in the 
Orient have rarely contracted the disease; and, when so affected, the mor- 
tality is low. In the epidemic at Hong-Kong, in 1894, Lawson states 
that the percentage mortality of those attacked was as follows : Europeans, 
18.2 ; Japanese, 60.0; Malays, 100.0; Chinese, 93.4. The disease is pre- 
eminently favored by want, privation and lack of proper sanitation. Haff- 
kine places the average period of incubation of the disease at about six 
days, but this is exceeded in many instances. 
46 




722 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Propagation and Dissemination. Plague has developed so uniformly 
iii unclean places that tilth is regarded as an essential factor in its propa- 
gation and spread. Almost without exception, plague-centers have been 
characterized by a soil polluted by decomposing animal material and by 
the overcrowding of a dirty and insufficiently nourished population. Plague 
bacilli have been isolated from the dust of infected houses, and the pest is 
generally regarded as a ground rather than a water disease. In the epi- 
demic in Hong-Kong, in 1894, Lawson was impressed with the part 
which dust and dirt played in the transmission of the infection. When 
the microbe is removed from a soil saturated with organic filth, it appears 
to lose much of its virulence. The bacillus has been shown to survive for 
two weeks in water, and hence the supply used for drinking and purposes 
of cleanliness should be pure. While the disease appears at times to be 
transmissible by air, this is possible only within a small radius ; there is con- 
siderable evidence to show that it may be transmitted by means of food. The 
disease may be spread by means of clothing and other articles which have 
been used by plague patients ; but is most often disseminated by human in- 
tercourse. Aoyama believes that the specific bacillus gains entrance to the 
body largely through skin wounds, and much less frequently than has been 
supposed by way of the respiratory and alimentary tracts. The fact that 
there may be no local manifestations at the lesion of entrance is important. 

A large number of animals, particularly rats, mice and small rodents, 
are susceptible to the disease. Rats die in great numbers in pest-smitten 
districts, sometimes before the affection appears in human beings. There 
can be little doubt that these animals play a most important part in dis- 
tributing the disease over wide areas from a focus of infection, when it has 
once broken out. This has been abundantly proved in the case of Bom- 
bay, where observation has shown that the emigration of plague-infected 
rats to districts comparatively free from the disease has been attended by 
an extensive outbreak in the latter places. In addition to the pus of sup- 
purating buboes and the blood, the bacilli have also been found in the spu- 
tum, urine and fceces of both men and animals. Further, it has been 
shown that the flea is frequently an agent by which inoculation is made 
from affected to sound animals. Pest bacilli have been found in the stom- 
ach contents of these insects, and fleas taken from plague-afflicted rats have 
been made the means of communicating the disease to healthy animals. 
Nuttall, Yersin and Ogata have found pest bacilli in large numbers in the 
bodies of flies in an infected locality. Even after forty-eight hours' reten- 
tion hi a clean receptacle without infected food, infected flies were found 
to be full of virulent bacilli. The experiments of Nuttall and Ogata are 
to the effect that ants and mosquitoes may be the carriers of this disease ; 
the latter producing infection by direct inoculation. Bedbugs, however, 
appear to digest and destroy the bacilli. From the facts stated with regard 
to the powers of comparatively rapid multiplication of the plague bacillus, 
its wide dissemination by the excreta and by animals and insects, it may 
be understood how extensively soil and habitation may become infected 
and how correspondingly difficult it may be to arrest the ravages of the 
disease. The important part played by the infection of a locality is strik- 
ingly shown by the rapid fall in the number of cases when an infected 
site is abandoned and the inhabitants are placed in tents. 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 723 

Prophylaxis. The most important safeguards against the threatened 
development of plague are cleanliness of person and surroundings, good 
drainage, free ventilation, a proper standard of nutrition and a war of ex- 
termination against rats and mice. In addition, the prophylactic use of 
Haffkine's anti-plague serum is of great importance. When the disease 
makes its appearance, the sick should be at once isolated in tent hospitals, 
and all who have come in close contact with them, or have been exposed 
to the same conditions, should be quarantined and kept under observation 
for ten days. The belongings and surroundings of the patient should be 
carefully disinfected. The sputum, urine, fieces and dressings from sup- 
purating buboes should be burned. Only healthy persons, free from abra- 
sions, sores or ulcers, should be allowed near the sick ; and such should 
be required to maintain scrupulous personal cleanliness and take a disin- 
fectant bath at least once daily. Troops should receive abundant food 
and pure water ; and the necessity for personal cleanliness and the frequent 
change of clothing impressed upon them. The use of well-fitting shoes, 
together with great care of the feet, is necessary ; since there is considera- 
ble evidence to show that inoculation usually takes place hi the lower ex- 
tremities. Soldiers should avoid infected districts, except under competent 
authority. 

If proper care be taken, the liability of white troops to contract this 
disease appears to be slight. At Hong-Kong, in 1894, pf 300 British 
soldiers who volunteered to assist in the sanitary policing of infected 
houses, but 10 contracted the disease; in Poona, in 1897, of over 900 
white soldiers so engaged, not one became infected. In the latter instance 
the precautions taken included merely a hearty meat meal before begin- 
ning the work of the day ; the retention in camp of all cases of slight 
ailment or those presenting cuts or abrasions ; immediate disinfection by 
antiseptic solutions of cuts or bruises incurred during the work, and the 
thorough sunning of the clothing worn, for the rest of the day, after return 
to camp. 

Every effort should be made for the destruction of rats and mice, which 
are very susceptible to invasion by the pest bacillus and which obviously 
can escape the best sanitary cordon and neutralize the most thorough dis- 
infection. The wholesale poisoning of these rodents is not without its 
dangers and, like the use of traps and ferrets, is only partially effective. 
Recently Danyoz has shown the possibility of destroying them in large 
numbers by means of bread or grain soaked in cultures of the bacillus ty- 
phi murium. Not only do the animals readily eat the infected foods, but 
the disease thus communicated is further propagated by the affected animal 
to others. The bacillus employed is pathogenic only for the rodents. 

Such individuals as recover from the disease should be kept in quaran- 
tine for at least a month. Kitasato has found the bacillus of plague in 
the blood as long as three weeks after the beginning of convalescence. 

Preventive Inoculation. The system of preventive inoculation 
against plague, as devised by Haffkine, has been carried out on an exten- 
sive scale in India during the past six years. The method has been sys- 
tematically tested by inoculating a certain proportion of the inhabitants of 
districts exposed to infection, leaving others uninoculated, and then observ- 
ing the proportion of cases of the disease, and of fatal cases, among the 



724 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

two classes. The results have been distinctly favorable to the use of the 
preventive fluid. 

At Poona, inoculation was practised with anti-plague serum on the 
native followers of the artillery troops stationed at that point. While 
everything was done outside of inoculation to prevent the spread of the 
disease, in 859 uninoculated there were 143 cases with 98 deaths, and in 
671 inoculated there were 32 cases with 17 deaths. Had the inoculated, 
living under the same roof, belonging to the same families and sharing the 
same food and drink, been equally affected, the proportionate number of 
deaths among them would have been 77. The inoculation therefore re- 
duced the death rate 77.9 per cent. In 1898, at Hubli, 3,815 persons not 
inoculated with anti-plague serum had 446 attacks, while 26,428 persons 
twice inoculated had only 31 attacks. If the latter had suffered propor- 
tionally as much as the non-inoculated they should have had 3,089 at- 
tacks and such examples might be largely multiplied. In a statement 
published in June, 1899, Haffkine states that in the large number of 
inoculations made with anti-plague serum, the difference in number of 
attacks occurring in inoculated and uninoculated was over 80 per cent., 
often approaching 90 per cent. The lowest in his experience was 77.9. 
The case mortality also was only half as great as among the uninoculated. 

To make the prophylactic material, Haffkine cultivates in bouillon 
luxuriant growths of plague bacilli, usually obtained from the livers of 
plague patients, by adding to the nutrient medium an abundance of fat 
exposed to free aeration. For this purpose he employs the clarified butter, 
or "ghee," commonly used in India. This floats on the surface of the 
bouillon, and after inoculation of the latter the growths extend downward 
in a stalactite formation, leaving the liquid limpid. When the fluid is 
filled with an abundant growth, the flask is shaken and the stalactites are 
broken and fall to the bottom ; fresh growth then occurring from above down- 
ward. In this manner, half a dozen crops are obtained in the course of a 
month, filling the flask, when shaken, with an opaque milky emulsion. 
The micro-organisms are then destroyed by a temperature of 70 C., main- 
tained for one hour, and the final result is an abundant deposit with a clear 
supernatant fluid. Injected subcutaneously into animals, the sediment pro- 
duces a local inflammation and a nodule at the seat of inoculation, but is 
accompanied with little fever or general disturbance. The injection of the 
fluid, on the contrary, causes a considerable rise of temperature with 
malaise, but no local effects. A mixture of the clear fluid and deposit is 
used in inoculation against plague, about 5 c.c., usually divided into three 
doses which are administered about ten days apart, being the amount em- 
ployed for adult males. The injection is followed by an unpleasant reac- 
tion with pyrexia, 101 to 103 F., and general symptoms resembling a 
mild attack of plague ; in some cases even producing enlargement of the 
glands and lasting several days. The prophylactic serum begins to* act in 
twelve to fourteen hours, thus arresting or mitigating the disease in indi- 
viduals infected several days before. The effect of an inoculation of plague 
serum appears to be of protective value over a single epidemic, but expe- 
rience has not as yet shown how long the immunity persists. 

Yersin, Calmette and Borrel succeeded in producing a certain amount 
of immunity against plague, in rabbits, by injection of cultures of this 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



725 



bacillus killed by heat at 58 C. They further found that the serum of 
such animals had certain protective powers when tested on mice. Later, 
Yersin and Symmers endeavored to produce a prophylactic serum from 
horses, by the injection of dead and living cultures of the bacillus of plague 
into these animals. Yersin' s serum promised fairly well at the outset; 
but Symmers, working along the same lines, concludes that "the strength 
of the sera secured is not sufficiently great to warrant any hope of their be- 
ing of therapeutic use in an actual epidemic of plague." 

PNEUMONIA. 

Occurrence. Acute croupous pneumonia is a disease which, as might 
be expected, considering the conditions of military life, though not one of 
the most common to which the soldier is exposed on service, is yet not of 
infrequent occurrence nor unproductive of considerable mortality. Though 
ordinarily the disease occurs only sporadically, yet at times it appears to 
take on a distinctly contagious character, and well-defined epidemics of 
pneumonia among soldiers, either in garrison or in the field, are by no 
means infrequent. Under such conditions, it is reasonable to assume the 
existence of some common depressing influence, by which a number of 
individuals are predisposed to an infection to which, under ordinary cir- 
cumstances, they would be largely insusceptible. In considering the oc- 
currence of this disease in the military service, it should not be forgotten 
that pneumonia may either occur primarily or be consequent to some other 
disease, especially influenza and measles ; and it is particularly during epi- 
demics of the latter affections that the rates for pneumonia attain their 
maximum. While the disease not infrequently occurs among troops in 
garrison, it is considerably favored by the exposure incident to field service. 

The rates in our army for pneumonia, since the Civil War, have stead- 
ily decreased as a result of the greater care given to the comfort and welfare 
of the soldier, as shown by the following figures : 



Period. 


Admissions 
per 1,000 strength. 


Deaths 
per 1.000 strength. 


1861-1866 (Civil War) 


82.45 


7.79 


1868-84 


6.55 


1.01 


1886-94 


4.28 


.76 


1895-98 


3.66 


.51 


Year 1898 (War with Spain) 


4.84 


.88 


Year 1897 


2.96 


.21 









The case mortality of the disease has also greatly diminished, but this 
is probably due to a more rational line of treatment than to any decrease 
in the virulence of the infection. As compared with the rates for foreign 
services, those for our army are extremely low thus in the German army 
the admissions and deaths from pneumonia have been as follows : 



Period. 


Admissions 
per 1,000 strength. 


Deaths 
per 1.000 strength. 


1881-82 to 1885-86 


11.0 


0.19 


1886-87 to 1890-91 


10.5 


.48 


1891-92 to 1895-96 


9.8 


.36 


Year 1896-97 


6.7 


.25 









726 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



It is seen that in the German army the death rate has increased while 
the proportion of cases has diminished, a fact which can be explained only 
on the supposition of an increase in the gravity of the affection. In the 
Russian army the following are the more recent rates : 



Year. 


Admissions 
per 1,000 strength. 


Deaths 
per 1,000 strength. 


1890 


10.4 


0.99 


1891 


10.2 


.90 


1892 


8.7 


.81 


1893 


10.7 


.87 


1894 


7.7 


.62 


1895 


8.3 


.66 


1896 ... 


7.7 


.62 


1897 


6.4 


.49 









In the Austrian army, for the year 189 7, the admissions for pneumonia, 
per thousand strength, amounted to 5.1, while the death rate was .49. 

Cause. The cause of pneumonia is the specific micrococcus discov- 
ered by Sternberg, of the United States army. It usually occurs in pairs 
of rather small oval, conical or lancet-shaped organisms, the broader ends 
being in apposition. The organism varies somewhat in size. In some 
cases atypical or involution forms are seen, especially if the culture be more 
than twenty-four hours old. No capsules are usually observed in cul- 
tures, with ordinary methods of stain- 
ing. It is not motile, has low powers 
of resistance and is readily destroyed 
by either thermal or chemical methods 
of disinfection. The micro-organism 
is cultivated with difficulty, and at 
times dies out after several generations. 
On blood-serum it occurs as minute, 
colorless, transparent colonies, resem- 
bling very small drops of dew. On 
glycerin-agar there is a feeble growth 
of minute grayish colonies. The most 
favorable temperature for its develop- 
ment is about 37 C. It does not grow 
at temperatures below 25 C. nor above 
42 C. When injected into certain 
animals, especially mice and rabbits, the latter die rapidly from septicaemia 
infection. Great variation in the virulence of the organism is observed. 

Dissemination and Infection. The specific micrococcus of pneu- 
monia is found in the sputum of practically all persons suffering from this 
disease. It has also been found in acute peri- and endocarditis, acute 
pleuritis and empyema, acute meningitis and otitis media. After death it 
may be found, in varying numbers, scattered throughout the body. It has 
been found to be usually present in the mouth cavities of healthy individ- 
uals, and by some has been thought to be present in the mouth of every 
one at some time or other. While the micro-organism usually loses much 
or all of its virulence by artificial cultivation, its original qualities are re- 




Fio. 360. Micrococcl of Pneumonia in Sputum. 
(After Abbott.) 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



7-J7 



tained in sputum, blood and other pathological exudates for considerable 
periods, according to Abbott for as long as fifty-five days, even in the dried 
condition. It is not unlikely, therefore, that dried pneumonic sputum, 
when ground into dust and inhaled, may induce the occurrence of the disease 
in susceptible individuals. This condition of susceptibility is, however, 
essential. " There must be some predisposing cause, for the micrococcus is 
widely disseminated and is often present in the mouths of healthy persons 
without producing any ill effect. Under ordinary circumstances the protec- 
tive mechanism of the body prevents invasion." Since the micro-organism 




FIG. 351. Distribution of Cases of Pneumonia in the United States Army, per Thousand Strength, Occur- 
ring Monthly during the Decade 1875-84. 

of pneumonia is so frequently present in the mouth, it is probable that the 
sporadic cases of the primitive disease so commonly seen are the result of 
auto-infection depending upon a lowered vital resistance. As the lungs are 
the seat of attack, it would appear that the infective organism gains entrance 
by the air passages ; though there is some evidence that it may be brought 
to the lungs from distant parts by the vascular or lymphatic circulation. 

Predisposing Causes. Among the predisposing causes of pneumonia 
those of latitude and season are of much importance, the disease being 
most common in cold climates and during late winter and early spring. 

The distribution of the disease by months is shown in the above diagram ; 
while the influence of climate upon its occurrence is apparent in the fact 
that the admission rate per thousand strength, for the year 1899, was 9.50 
for troops stationed in the United States and 3.58 for those serving in the 
tropical islands. The disease, once contracted in the tropics, appears to be 
relatively more fatal than in the temperate zone ; the death rates for the same 
year being .63 per thousand for the tropical islands and 1.40 for troops at 
home stations. 

The negro race appears to be especially susceptible to pneumonia ; the 
rates per thousand for our own service, for. the decade 1879-88, being 7.52 
for admissions and 1.79 for deaths among the colored troops, and but 4.46 
and .76 respectively for the white troops. Among the whites, figures for 
the seven years 1890-96 showed the American-born to be about twenty 
per cent, more liable to contract the disease than soldiers born in Ireland, 
Germany or England. Age appears to be a factor of no small importance 
soldiers under 25 years of age and over 50 years being more than twice as 
liable to contract the disease as those between 25 and 35 years of age. 
Among the several arms of the service, the admission rates per thousand 



728 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

strength, for the period 1890-96, were 4.12 for cavalry, 3.46 for infantry 
and 2.95 for artillery. 

Pneumonia is especially apt to develop after exposure to sudden and 
extreme variations in temperature. Troops returning from service in the 
tropics, and especially such as are insufficiently clothed for the colder cli- 
mate, are particularly liable to this disease. Wetting appears not infre- 
quently to precipitate an attack, as do exhaustion and alcoholism. The 
disease often occurs in soldiers who, after having been exhausted by fa- 
tiguing exercise, expose themselves while sweaty to chilling drafts. In- 
sufficient heating of barracks has been thought, with some reason, to favor 
pneumonia. Eepeated outbreaks sometimes occur in the same buildings, 
especially casemates and old log structures. It is a matter of common 
knowledge that outbreaks of this disease among soldiers often occur at the 
same time as epidemics of pneumonia or influenza in cavalry horses, with 
whom the men come in. constant contact. 

Prophylaxis. From what has been said, it is evident that measures 
having reference to the prevention of pneumonia among troops are particu- 
larly those which look to the maintenance of a high physical tone. Good 
and sufficient food, suitable clothing and shelter, rational exercise in the 
open air, cleanliness of person and temperate habits are all important. 
Chilling after drills and exercise should be avoided. 

When pneumonia assumes an epidemic or infectious type, the patient 
should be isolated. All the precautions required in the case of tuberculo- 
sis should be taken in this disease also. Attendants in charge of pneu- 
monia cases should be well nourished, have sufficient rest and not be in 
too close relation with the sick; bearing in mind that by being over- 
worked and in constant association with the patient they offer the condi- 
tions most favorable to their own infection. 

SCARLET FEVER. 

From its comparative rarity, this affection can scarcely be regarded for 
our own army as a soldier's disease, but is here included since it is less 
uncommon in the military forces of other nations. During the period 
1868-98, there were reported only 160 cases of scarlet fever in a total nu- 
merical strength for this period of 859,908 men. In these 160 cases there 
were altogether but 6 deaths. The disease occurs in garrison rather than 
in camp, there being but 12 cases during the year of war with Spain. Of 
these 12 cases, however, 3 died, while of 148 cases occurring during the 
previous thirty years of peace but 3 succumbed thus showing the unfavor- 
able influence of the exposure unavoidably incident to treatment in field 
hospitals. The admission rate, per thousand strength, was .19 for the pe- 
riod 1868-84; .18 for the period 1885-94 and .21 for the period 1895-98. 
In the Austrian army, for 1897, the admission rate is given as .3Q per 
thousand strength, and the death rate as .01. In the German army, 
scarlet fever has occurred as follows : 

,...,.,, Admissions 

per 1,000 strength. 

1881-82 to 1885-86 1.2 

1886-H7 to 189O-91 95 

1891-92 to 1895-96 92 

Year 1896-97 . . .66 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 729 

Epidemics of scarlet fever have frequently prevailed among children 
living at our army posts, without the troops being affected. The disease 
usually occurs in late winter or early spring. Its etiological factor is un- 
known, though Klein has isolated a streptococcus from cases of this affec- 
tion which he regards as the causative agent. The contagion of scarlet 
fever is probably not developed until the eruption appears, and is especially 
to be dreaded during desquamation ; when the poison is spread by the fine 
particles of epidermis which are disseminated from the person. The mor- 
bific agent is very tenacious of life, and may cling to rooms, clothing and 
other articles for long periods, retaining its power to reproduce the disease 
under favorable conditions. The infection also appears to be given off by 
the breath and in the secretions from the nose, mouth, ears and kidneys. 
The disease does not seem to be spread by water, although infected milk 
appears to have caused outbreaks. Infection is almost always contracted 
by inhalation. The incubation period is one to six days; the quarantine 
required is usually from seven to nine weeks, or until desquamation is per- 
fected. Preventive measures include isolation of the sick as a matter of 
the first importance. The apparel, equipments and former surroundings of 
the patient should be .carefully disinfected. All discharges should be dis- 
infected before removal from the room, and the arrest of contagious mate- 
rial from the skin secured by the application of some antiseptic ointment. 
The convalescent should not associate with others until all desquamation 
has ceased, the process being aided by repeated bathing in warm soap- 
suds. Careful shampooing of the head is essential in securing final disin- 
fection of the person. 

SMALLPOX. 

Occurrence. Until well within the past fifty years, this disease has 
prevailed generally among armies ; being regarded as one of the most fre- 
quent and at the same time most fatal affections to which troops were com- 
monly exposed. Its prevention among soldiers by means of vaccination 
was not attempted until 1831, when this operation was introduced in the 
army of Wiirtemberg. Some years later, it was taken up in other armies 
and practised with more or less thoroughness. 

During the Revolutionary War, the failure of our invading expedition 
to Canada was largely due to a scourge of smallpox among the Conti- 
nental forces. It was present among our troops during the war with 
Mexico; and during the Civil War there were 18,962 cases with 7,058 
deaths from this cause. In the Confederate army of northern Virginia, 
from October, 1862, to January, 1864, there were 2,513 cases and 1,020 
deaths. During the Franco-Prussian War the German troops, who had 
been carefully vaccinated, had only 278 fatal cases of smallpox in a total 
strength of 913,967 men; while among the poorly protected French troops, 
the deaths from this cause were said to have amounted to 23,400 and 
Coustan states that during the siege of Paris the mortality from smallpox 
among the besieged forces was no less than 6.76 per cent. In the mili- 
tary hospitals, during that war, the German wounded escaped variola where 
the French wounded prisoners were generally attacked. The lesson was not 
lost on the French authorities, and a vigorous system of vaccination was 



730 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

later instituted so that 92 deaths from smallpox in 1877 were progressively 
reduced to 4 in 1890 and 3 in 1892. In the German army, excluding the 
Saxons and Bavarians, for the years 1873-74 to 1896-97, inclusive, there 
were but 17 cases of variola in a constant strength of over half a million 
men, and of these 17 cases but 2 died. In the Italian army of 204,312 men, 
for the year 1897, there were but 2 cases of variola; in the Russian army, 
for the same year, the admission rate per thousand amounted to .4 for this 
disease. In the British army, for the years 1888-98 inclusive, there 
were no cases of smallpox among such troops as were stationed in the 
temperate zone. In the tropics, however, the disease prevailed to no small 
extent; the admissions, per thousand strength, being 1.1 for China, .8 for 
India and 1.7 for Egypt and Cyprus. This difference was undoubtedly due 
to the general dissemination of the disease among an unprotected native 
population. In our own army, for the thirteen years 1885-97, there oc- 
curred but six cases of smallpox, and in these instances the fact of previ- 
ous vaccination could not be determined. In the year 1898, however, 
our troops on foreign service were brought in contact with an un vaccinated 
native class, and furthermore consisted largely of recruits hastily enrolled 
in an expanded and provisional army during the war with Spain. These 
men, examined for enlistment largely by civilian physicians, were un- 
doubtedly less thoroughly .vaccinated and protected against the disease. 
That this, indeed, was actually the case, is shown by the fact that of the 
regulars and volunteers serving in the Philippines during 1899, the ad- 
mission rate for smallpox was 4.80 per thousand strength among the 
former, and 9.60 among the latter troops. The relative death rates from 
this disease showed an even greater difference than the admissions ; the 
regulars having a death rate of 1 per thousand strength, while among the 
volunteers this rate was 3.36 per thousand. For the calendar year 1898, 
the admission rate, for the entire army, was .40 per thousand; from the 
troops in Porto Rico the admissions were 1.04 and the deaths .52 per 
thousand, while in the Pacific islands the admissions were 5.51 and the 
deaths 2.07. For the entire military force, regulars and volunteers, May, 
1898, to June, 1899, inclusive, the death rate from smallpox was .57 per 
thousand. 

Infection and Dissemination. The cause of smallpox is as yet un- 
discovered. In the great majority of cases the disease appears to be directly 
transmitted from the sick to the well through the medium of the atmo- 
sphere, and this power of ae'rial convection is one of the most striking 
characteristics of smallpox. Persons unprotected by vaccination apparently 
contract the disease by simply breathing the air of the space in which a 
smallpox patient is confined. There is no evidence for its transmission 
by food or drink ; but persons or things which may have been in contact 
with the patient are capable of conveying the infection. Power states 
that the infectious agent may be carried by the air, particularly when 
a large number of smallpox cases were aggregated and the atmosphere* was 
moist, for as much as a mile and this is a matter for consideration in the 
establishment of isolation hospitals. The incubation period of the dis- 
ease is about twelve days, and its period of infectiveness is at least six 
J in severe cases. The period of highest infectivity is believed to 
be during the stage of desquamation, when the morbific agent, whatever 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



731 



be its nature, is dispersed with the fine particles of scab and epidermis 
shed by the patient. The disease appears to be contagious at an early 
stage ; after exposure to an infection the susceptible individual should be 
quarantined for a fortnight. A certain proportion of individuals, accord- 
ing to Notter and Firth about five per cent., appear to be naturally im- 
mune to the disease. 

Soil and climate appear to have no influence on the occurrence of 
smallpox. Season appears to affect its prevalence to some extent, and in 
temperate climates the mortality curve is above the mean in the late winter 
and early spring. In the 
tropics, the disease is said 
to prevail chiefly during 
the hot season, the rains 
checking it to a great ex- 
tent. The negro and 
colored races are especially 
susceptible to the smallpox 
and also suffer a heavy case 
mortality where vaccina- 
tion has been imperfectly 
performed. During the 
Civil War, the admissions 
among the white troops for 
variola and varioloid 
amounted to 5.5 per thou- 
sand strength, while the 
admissions from colored 
troops for the same cause 
amounted to 36.6 and the 
deaths to 12.2. 

Prophylaxis . There 
is no evidence that the 
smallpox poison multiplies 
outside the human body; 
hence for the prevention 
and eradication of this dis- 
ease, systematic vaccination is the measure of by far the greatest importance. 
When arm-to-arm vaccination was practised in armies, great difficulty was 
found in obtaining the necessary amount of virus, and it was also impossi- 
ble to eliminate entirely the danger of transmitting certain constitutional 
diseases. Animal vaccine disposes of this danger, and places at the disposal 
of the military sanitarian as large quantities of prophylactic material as may 
be desired. With improved virus and better technical methods of inocu- 
lation, the proportion of successful vaccinations has steadily increased. In 
the Italian army, of 3,095,571 vaccinations and re-vaccinations made during 
the period 1867 to 1897 inclusive, Livi states that the rate of success in- 
creased from 260 per thousand in 1867 to 698 per thousand in 1897. In 
the last named year, in the Belgian army, the number of successful primary 
vaccinations was 69.91 per cent. ; of those previously vaccinated, 43.21 per 
cent. ; of those said to have had smallpox, 20.50 per cent. In our own service, 




Mortality. 



Sickness. 



Fio. 352. Vaccination and Smallpox in tbe Italian Army. A, 
Never bad variola or been vaccinated In childhood, and not yet 
vaccinated In the army ; I!, either had variola or been vaccinated 
in childhood, and not yet vaccinated In tbe army ; C, never had 
variola nor vaccinated in childhood, and vaccinated in the army 
without success ; / >, never had variola nor vaccinated in cblld- 
IM M K|, and vaccinated in the army successfully : E, had variola 
or was vaccinated in childhood, and vaccinated in the army 
without success ; F, had variola or was vaccinated in childhood, 
and vaccinated in the army successfully. (After Livi.) 



732 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

army regulations require that as soon as a recruit joins any rendezvous, 
regiment or post, he shall be examined by a medical officer to ascertain 
whether vaccination is required. In such cases as present no evidence of 
successful vaccination within a reasonable period, the operation is to be 
performed immediately. The date and result of kst vaccination are to be 
noted in the company descriptive and deposit book, and also on the de- 
scriptive list of the man in case of transfer. This system is not sufficiently 
comprehensive and leaves too much to the discretion of the medical officer. 
It should be required that all young recruits be vaccinated immediately on 
enlistment, and that they be examined after ten days and re-vaccinated if 
the first operation has not been successful. In such as still prove refrac- 
tory the operation should be repeated at the end of three months. In time 
of epidemic, the thorough vaccination of the whole command should be 
practiced. For old soldiers, after being vaccinated on re-enlistment, no 
repetition of the vaccination, if unsuccessful, will ordinarily be necessary. 
The practice of simultaneously making several points of inoculation, as is 
done in European armies, has much to commend it as reducing liability to 
failure ; and, in general, the total area of the cicatrices should not be less than 
half a square inch. The incubation period of vaccinia being shorter than that 
of smallpox, it is possible to modify or even entirely prevent an attack of the 
latter by vaccination performed some days after infection. This is especially 
the case with re- vaccination, the incubation period of which is often shorter 
than primary vaccination. The operation, if successfully performed within 
three days after exposure to smallpox, will prevent the appearance of the 
symptoms, and in all likelihood the attack will be arrested or modified if 
vaccination be performed as late as the fifth day. The few attacks that 
occur between six and nine days after successful vaccination are mild, and 
practically none commence later. With regard to what may be accom- 
plished in controlling epidemics of smallpox, the recent work of army medi- 
cal officers in Cuba and Porto Rico is a conspicuous example ; in the latter 
island nearly a million people being vaccinated and the disease practically 
eradicated in less than three months. In the Cuban epidemic at Holguin, 
where about 12,000 cases of the disease were treated, not a single soldier 
of the well- vaccinated command contracted smallpox, though the men were 
constantly engaged in sanitary police and in performing guard duty at the 
lazarettos and infected points. 

In addition to the prompt searching out, vaccination and isolation of 
all persons who may have come in contact with a smallpox case, the patient 
should be carefully isolated. All clothing and other articles exposed to 
contagion, which cannot be readily disinfected, should be burned. During 
the stage of desquamation, fixation of the contagious matter should be ac- 
complished by smearing the skin with olive oil, vaselin or carbolized gly- 
cerin. All discharges from the nose, mouth and elsewhere should be re- 
ceived into vessels containing a disinfectant solution. The scabs which 
have fallen off should, as far as possible, be collected and burned. Isola- 
tion should be maintained until the last scab has disappeared. The sur- 
roundings of a case of smallpox should be carefully disinfected. No special 
prophylactic precautions on the part of the attendants, provided they are 
thoroughly protected by vaccination and are in a healthy physical condition, 
appear to be necessary 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 733 

Vaccine Material. If the supply of vaccine virus be inadequate, the 
arm-to-arm inoculation of material from vaccinia pustules, provided due care 
is used in the selection of the subjects, is of advantage, and, if properly 
carried out, may be rendered largely free from justifiable criticism. This 
method was employed during the Civil War. The use of bovine virus is, 
however, always preferable. Where crusts or charged points of this material 
are used, the virus is unavoidably contaminated with pyogeuic bacilli, which, 
on inoculation, may produce mixed infections of considerable severity. It 
being practically impossible to produce a vaccine virus originally free from 
bacterial contamination, the germs unavoidably present should hence be sub- 
sequently destroyed or rendered harmless. This is readily done by the use 
of chemically pure glycerin ; and virus stored in this substance for three 
or four weeks is rendered practically sterile as far as extraneous organisms 
are concerned. The modern method of preparing glycerinated pulp- vac- 
cine, much to be preferred for the military service, is given by Copeman 
as follows: 

A calf of suitable age, about three to six months old, is kept in quar- 
antine for a week, after which, if it appears healthy and no reaction is 
given to tuberculin, the preparation of which has been described in a 
previous chapter, it may be removed to the vaccinating station. It is 
there placed on a tilting-table, and the lower part of the abdomen, as far 
forward as the umbilicus, is shaved, washed with a 2.5 per cent, solution 
of carbolic acid and then rinsed with sterile water and dried with soft 
sterilized towels. With a sterilized sharp scalpel, incisions parallel to the 
long axis of the body are then made on this clean-shaven area. The depth 
of the incisions should be such as to pass through the epidermis and open 
the rete Malpighii, if possible without drawing blood. As these incisions 
are made, glycerinated calf-lymph, which by examination is known to be 
free from extraneous organisms, is run into them by means of a sterilized 
blunt instrument, and the point of the scalpel is also from time to time 
dipped in the vaccine emulsions. After five days, or one hundred and 
twenty hours, the vaccinated surface of the calf is first thoroughly washed 
with warm water and soap, rubbed over it by the clean hand of the opera- 
tor, and finally the whole area is cleansed with sterile water. The remain- 
ing moisture is then removed by sterilized sheets of blotting-paper. The 
vaccinated incisions will now appear as lines of continuous vesicles raised 
above the surface, each line separated from its neighbor by about one-fourth 
inch of clear skin. Any crusts which appear in the vesicular lines are 
picked off with a blunt sterilized instrument. The vesicles and their con- 
tents are then removed by means of a sterilized Volkmann's spoon and are 
transferred to a sterilized bottle of known weight. By going over the lines 
only once with the spoon, it is quite easy to remove the whole of the pulp 
without any admixture of blood. The abraded surface is carefully washed 
and may be dusted with fine oatmeal or starch and boracic powder. Sub- 
sequently the calf is transferred to the slaughter-house and the carcass is 
examined with respect to its healthful condition. Should this examina- 
tion not be satisfactory, the vaccine-pulp from the animal is destroyed. 
The bottle containing the vaccine-pulp is then taken to the laboratory and 
the exact weight of the material ascertained. A calf vaccinated in this 
way will yield from 18 to 24 grams, or even more, of lymph-pulp. This 



734 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

material is then thoroughly rubbed up in a sterilized mortar or in a trit- 
urating machine. When it has been brought to a fine state of division 
it is mixed with six times its weight of a sterilized solution of 50 per 
cent, chemically pure glycerin in distilled water. The resulting emul- 
sion is then transferred to small test-tubes, which are then aseptically 
sealed and stored in a cool place protected from light. When required 
for distribution, the emulsion is drawn up into sterilized capillary tubes 
which are subsequently sealed in the flame of a spirit lamp. As soon as 
the vesicular pulp is thoroughly emulsified with the glycerin solution, agar- 
agar plates are inoculated from it, and after suitable incubation for seven 
days the colonies that have developed on the plates are counted and exam- 
ined. Week by week this process is repeated, and invariably the number 
of colonies diminishes with the age of the emulsion ; until at the end 
of the fourth week after the collection and glycerination of the lymph 
material, the agar-agar plates inoculated show no bacterial growth. The 
lymph is then subjected to further culture experiments, and if the free- 
dom from extraneous organisms is positively demonstrated the emulsion 
is ready for distribution. The elimination of the extraneous organisms 
ordinarily occurs by the end of the fourth week. The only exception 
to this rule arises when the lymph originally contained a consider- 
able number of spores or bacilli of the hay bacillus, or bacillus mesoenter- 
icus. These organisms are very resistant to the action of glycerin ; but if 
the precautions detailed are carried out in the . treatment of the calf, they 
may generally be excluded. The duration of activity of glycerinated 
lymph in all probability varies with atmospheric conditions, with the 
fineness of division of the vesicle-pulp, and, above all, with the condi- 
tion of the calf itself. Ordinarily, glycerinated lymph may be considered 
to retain its full potency for ten months and, under favorable circum- 
stances, probably for a longer period. In military practice, however, there 
will rarely be a reason for keeping the lymph any such length of time, 
and conditions of climate and surroundings are usually such that deteriora- 
tion is rapid. 

In nearly all foreign armies, vaccine farms form part of the military 
establishment. In the French army there are five such farms, of which 
three are located in France and one each in Tunis and Algeria. In our own 
service, admirably managed vaccine stations have been established in Porto 
Rico and in the Philippines, since it was found to be a matter of both 
great difficult)' and expense to secure active vaccine virus from the United 
States, Japan or other countries. In the stations in the Philippines, the 
young water-buffalo or carabao has successfully filled the place of the calf 
for the production of vaccine virus. 

Vaccinia. This requires brief mention, in this connection, because of 
the temporary disability which it often induces in newly vaccinated re- 
cruits ; the rates thus produced figuring among the most frequent causes 
bringing about admissions to sick report. As vaccination on the arm often 
renders it inconvenient for recruits to drill or perform hard labor for a few 
days, it is customary to excuse such men as present evidence of a special 
inflammatory action from the performance of a part or the whole of their 
duties for a few days. A large proportion of such cases receive no special 
treatment, and are carried upon sick report as being sick in quarters. 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 735 

The admissions for vaccinia during the decade 1886-95, amounted 
to 33.72 per thousand strength, with a constant non-efficiency from this 
cause of 1.06 per thousand. For the years 1896 and 1897, the rates 
were considerably lower than for the decade just mentioned. During 
the year 1898 the admission rate for this affection was increased to 46.80, 
while in 1899 it was still further raised to 65.33. The great elevation in 
the rates for these two years undoubtedly depended upon the large influx 
into the army of previously unprotected recruits ; the re-enlistment of old 
soldiers, with the slight reactions following their re-vaccination, not reduc- 
ing the admission rate from this cause to the same extent as when the total 
enlistment was smaller. This, of course, was to be expected in the expan- 
sion of the army, and is a condition which will obviously adjust itself to its 
former standards, under settled conditions of military strength, in the course 
of a few years. In 1899, a death attributable to vaccinia was reported, 
amounting to a rate of .01 per thousand strength. Examination of the rec- 
ords, however, shows that six other deaths occurred as a result of septicae- 
mia following vaccination ; a fact which emphasizes the necessity for the 
use of a non-contaminated vaccine virus, such as has just been described, 
and also the importance of observing all antiseptic precautions in the per- 
formance of vaccination. These deaths, together with the five which oc- 
curred among the volunteer forces in 1898, undoubtedly depended upon 
the use of a contaminated virus, such as gave rise during the Civil War, in 
many instances, to serious results following inoculation with matter from 
crusts or scabs from human sources. The untoward results just noted are 
no argument in favor of non- vaccination, but they speak forcibly in favor 
of a proper technique in carrying out the operation and the use of glyceri- 
nated and uncontaminated virus. 

TUBERCULOSIS. 

Occurrence. Tuberculosis is a disease which originates more frequent- 
ly in garrison than among troops in active campaign ; but, on the other 
hand, the arduous nature of the service required under the latter conditions 
is often responsible for the rapid development of a previously latent infec- 
tion. The disease is fairly common among soldiers, a fact not strange when 
its great prevalence among the civil population is considered. It is prob- 
ably true that a proportionally greater number of cases of tuberculosis occur 
among soldiers than develop among males of the military age in civil life, in 
spite of the former originally being physically sound men ; but, on the 
other hand, the disease is of a somewhat chronic nature and not usually 
amenable to such treatment as can be given in the military service, and 
hence the discharge of well recognized cases does much to depress the 
rates for the military service and raise to some extent those for civil life. 
Military service appears afford not only to greater facilities for contracting 
the disease but also much more certainly to develop an existing though 
quiescent infection. 

The mortality from tuberculosis was extremely high among troops at 
the beginning of the present century, but has gradually decreased down to 
the present time as a result of more attention to their welfare. In our 
own service, the admission rates for tuberculosis, during the Civil War, 



736 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

amounted to 6.22 per thousand strength; the death rate to 2.53. During 
the second year of the war the admission rate was 9.38 and the death rate 
3.05. For the period of peace 1868-84, the admissions amounted to 4.83 
per thousand strength, and the deaths to 1.05. For the decade 1885-94, 
these rates fell to 3.39 and .59 respectively; and for the period 1895-98 
they were still further reduced to 2.83 and .42. As compared with those 
given for other armies, these rates are low and reflect much credit upon the 
care given to our troops; but their existence, even at present figures, implies 
a certain laxity of sanitary administration. The death rate from this dis- 
ease should be made to approximate zero through a more prompt and thor- 
ough elimination of those affected with it, while a higher physical standard 
in respect to recruits would do much to reduce the subsequent admissions 
to sick report from this affection. In foreign armies, figures with respect 
to the occurrence of tuberculosis, as given by Marvaud and contained in 
recent official reports, are as follows : 



Nation. 


Period. 


Admissions 
per 1,000 strength. 


Germany 


1878-1879 


4.8 


Austria 


1881-1891 
1891-1897 
1878-1881 


5.7 
2.57 
4.2 


England 


1889-1891 
1893-1897 
1870-1888 


4.7 
1.76 
6 1 


Russia 


1885-1890 
1888-1897 
1890-1897 


8.5 
3.7 

42 


Italy 


1875-1881 


3 16 


Spain 


1882-1891 
1886-1891 


8.82 

7 75 









The death rates from this disease in the Eussian and French armies are 
particularly high, being 1.6 and 1.10 respectively. The lowest death rate 
is given by the Belgian army, in which, as a result of careful elimination 
of the tuberculous, the rate was but .35 per thousand strength in 1898. 
For the year 1897, the death rate was .45 in the German army. Among 
the British troops on colonial service, during the decade 1888-97, the low- 
est rates of admission were given by Gibraltar, 1.9, and Bermuda, 2.4. 
The highest rates were given by the troops in India, 4.2, and in Ceylon, 
4.1. For the Spanish army in Cuba, in 1897, the admission rates for 
tuberculosis were stated to have been in excess of those for yellow fever, 
dysentery or typhoid fever. 

Cause. Tuberculosis results from invasion of the system and later 
development of the bacillus tuberculosis. This bacillus is a slender, 
rod-shaped organism; staining homogeneously in fresh cultures but pre- 
senting a beaded appearance in old cultures or in sputum.' The bacillus 
is non-motile and has not been shown to form spores. It possesses the 
property of retaining certain stains, even when subjected to the action of 
comparatively strong decolorizing reagents. It is stained by Gram's 
method. The bacillus cannot readily be cultivated on ordinary nutrient 
media, but may be grown on blood -serum, nutrient agar, and bouillon to 
which gelatin has been added developing only at body temperature. It 




DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 737 

is killed by heat at 55 C., but is not destroyed by ordinary drying or by 
freezing. In the dry state it is much more resistant to heat than when 
moist. It does not multiply outside the body except in artificial cultures. 
When grown on blood-serum, the colonies appear, after three or four weeks, 
as dry, granular, cream-colored, slightly elevated patches with irregular 
margins. Sometimes these patches become confluent, to form a dense, 
dry granular mass with irregular surface and of a creamy white color. The 
growth is very friable, but coherent. On glycerin-agar the growth is simi- 
lar but not so vigorous ; on glycerin-bouillon the growth occurs in the form 
of floating patches, or as a membrane similar in 
appearance to the growth on blood-serum. 

Dissemination and Infection. Every tu- 
berculous soldier is a source from which the dis- 
ease may be propagated to his comradrs. Kxudly 
the manner in which the infectious material is 
thrown off, depends upon the anatomical location |Q 
of the tuberculous lesions. Undoubtedly the 
disease is most commonly disseminated by in- 
fected sputum, but this is merely because the 
specific bacilli more commonly find in the re- * 36a '~7 1 utum e Bacim ln 
spiratory tract the conditions which are favorable 

to their development. It should not be overlooked that under certain con- 
ditions the urine, faeces or discharges from superficial lesions may be pro- 
portionally as infectious as the sputum. 

In the sputum of those affeqted with pulmonary tuberculosis the spe- 
cific bacilli are usually found in enormous numbers. When such infected 
sputum is dried, pulverized and disseminated as dust by air-currents, the 
infectious material may be inhaled by those within its sphere of action and 
may reproduce the disease in susceptible individuals. The same may also 
occur with respect to tuberculous urine, faecal matter and suppurative dis- 
charges. In a comparatively dry state the vitality of the bacillus is very 
great, and it has been shown to retain its virulence for as long as seven to 
ten months. In the wet state, its virulence is retained for about six weeks ; 
but in this condition it is comparatively harmless, though not entirely so. 
Cornet found that the dust in rooms occupied by consumptives contained 
virulent tubercle bacilli in a large proportion of cases. Such dust, dis- 
turbed from cornices or out-of-the-way places, even after several months, 
is often capable of producing an infection, and to its agency the appearance 
of many cases of obscure origin may be attributed. In a study of con- 
sumption occurring in Philadelphia, it was found that certain infected tene- 
ment houses were apparently responsible for a large proportion of cases ; in 
some instances, every family successively occupying these houses present- 
ing one or more cases of the disease after an occupancy of any duration. 
The observations have a practical application to the military service in re- 
lation to the disinfection of barracks. 

While the breath in consumptives does not appear to convey the in- 
fection, fresh tuberculous material may readily be transmitted to food or 
drink by unwashed hands or similar agency, and give rise to the disease 
when taken into the alimentary tract. In ten examinations of the hands 
of hospital attendants in wards where consumption was being treated, 
47 



738 

Vigoura found the tubercle bacilli present in two instances. In the same 
way, infected individuals who cough over food may also disseminate the 
affection. Flies feed greedily on tuberculous material, and their impor- 
tance as carriers of the specific bacilli has only recently been appreciated. 
Much important evidence on this point has lately been collected. Spill- 
man and Haushalter examined flies and fly excreta from a hospital ward 
and found tubercle bacilli in both. Hoffman examined the intestinal con- 
tents of flies taken from a room where a death from phthisis had recently 
occurred, and found the bacilli in four out of six instances, as well as in 
the excreta on the walls and furniture. Guinea-pigs inoculated by him 
with fly intestine became tuberculous. Alessi fed flies with phthisical 
sputum and then produced tuberculosis in rabbits inoculated with their 
dung. It is thus apparent that food may be readily contaminated by flies, 
carrying infectious material. Tuberculous meat may also be a cause of 
the disease ; and in civil life, milk from diseased animals is not infrequently 
infected. Clothing or other articles, when infected, may convey the dis- 
ease to those persons who handle them, and in such instances the disease 
not rarely appears to result from accidental infection by way of the ali- 
mentary tract. Inoculation through a breach of the skin has often oc- 
curred, but such method of infection is not common in the military service ; 
'when it does occur, the tuberculous process is usually localized at the site 
of infection. Direct infection from the sick is comparatively rare, but 
there is evidence to the effect that the disease may be transmitted from the 
sick to the well. In instances of this sort, however, the affected individuals 
have usually not been free from the possibility of infection by indirect 
means also. 

Predisposing Causes. Tuberculosis occurs in all countries and cli- 
mates, but is especially prevalent where sudden changes of temperature 
and damp atmosphere favor the occurrence of bronchial irritation; the 
tuberculous element being thus engrafted upon a simple benign affection. 
A dry, equable, sunny climate does much to prevent the occurrence of this 
disease, and the same may be said with respect to altitude. Tropical ser- 
vice favors the disease; thus in 1899 the rates of admission were 4.52 for 
the tropical islands and 3.18 for troops in the United States, while the dif- 
ference in death rates was even more marked, being .67 and .36 respec- 
tively. The immediate transfer of cases developing in the tropics, to favor- 
able climates in this country, is imperative. 

The so-called tuberculous diathesis is of the greatest importance in 
determining the liability to the occurrence of this disease. There seems 
to be no doubt that certain individuals present a hereditary susceptibility 
to tuberculosis, and this predisposition may generally be recognized by 
its well-known physical signs. Among these, chest capacity is important, 
and it is of interest to know that in the German army, where the chest 
of a soldier does not properly develop under physical training, the man is 
regarded as predisposed to phthisis and returned to civil life. 

Race exerts a considerable influence on the occurrence of tuberculosis, 
though no race is exempt. The negro and Indian are especially predis- 
posed to this disease. In 1898 and 1899, the admission rates for colored 
troops were 459 and 4.20 respectively; for white troops during the same 
years they were 3.65 and 3.96. Among the Apache Indian prisoners re- 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



739 



moved, a few years since, from Arizona to the damp climate of Alabama, the 
annual death rates per thousand strength, for five years, were 55, 5 1 , 1 10, 146 
and 110 almost wholly from tuberculosis. For the white race, nativity 
seems to be not without influence in modifying susceptibility to this 
disease. In the United States army, for the seven years 1890-96, the ad- 
mission rates for tuberculosis, per thousand strength, were 3.33 for Ameri- 
can whites, 2.97 for soldiers born in Ireland, and tut 1.49 for those of 
German birth. In the examination of 501,068 recruits for the Union 
forces during the Civil War, Baxter states that rejections for tuberculosis 
were more frequent in blonds than in men of dark complexion ; and that 
the proportion of rejections for this cause increased directly with the height. 
Age is a factor of great importance in the occurrence of the disease. For 
the period 1890-96 the admissions for tuberculosis in our army, per thou- 
sand of each class, were proportioned as follows : 



Period. Admlmlons. 

19 years and under 5.08 

20 to 24 inclusive 8.44 

25 to 29 " . 8.09 



Period. Admission*. 

80 to 84 inclusive 2.69 

85 to 89 2.70 

40 to 44 . 1.87 



The rates for infantry are slightly higher than for cavalry and artillery, 
and nearly three timea'as high as those for the Medical Department ; the 
latter showing the beneficent effect of lessened exposure and freedom from 
over-crowding. For the period 1890-96, the admissions were about two- 
thirds as frequent among officers, 1.98, as among enlisted men, 2.96. 

Nothing is better established with regard to tubercle than its relation 
to over-crowding and bad ventilation. As long ago as 1858, it was shown 
in the British army that the troops which suffered the most from over- 
crowding presented the greatest amount of tuberculosis. The custom of 
living in common, as in barracks, greatly favors the occurrence of tubercu- 
losis; since where infection of a squad-room has occurred, all the occupants 
are equally exposed to the danger of contracting the disease. Casemates, 
from their dampness, defective ventilation and want of sunshine, particu- 
larly favor tuberculous infections among troops quartered in them. No more 
striking example of the influence of such habitations on the frequency of 
tuberculosis has been given than that reported by Davy in 1862, as wit- 
nessed by him at Fort Clarence, in England. At this post, converted into 
a lunatic asylum, the deaths from tuberculosis among insane officers and 
soldiers' wives, they being lodged in ordinary houses, furnished 19 and 18 
per cent, respectively of the mortality from all causes. Among the soldier 
lunatics, who were quartered in casemates, tuberculosis caused 39 per cent, 
of all deaths. Bissell has recently shown that infected clothing will long 
retain dangerous qualities. This observer soaked in water small pieces of 
cloth removed from the pocket-lining of overcoats, worn by members of the 
National Guard discharged for tuberculosis, and almost invariably produced 
this disease in guinea-pigs on injecting them with the resulting fluid. 
A susceptibility to tuberculosis may be developed, in individuals ordinarily 
resistant to the disease, through insufficient and improper food, want of 
exercise, poor ventilation and uncleanliness of the person and surroundings. 
As with other infectious diseases, any circumstance which tends to lower 
the powers of vital resistance favors invasion. 

Prophylaxis. In the military service, the prevention of tuberculosis 



740 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

depends primarily upon the careful selection of recruits and the avoidance 
of enlisting such as appear to have a predisposition to this disease. If 
such have been enlisted, they should be discharged. All soldiers affected 
with the disease should be promptly eliminated from the service, as their 
retention is a menace to others. The cures which may be obtained at the 
army sanitarium at present maintained for the treatment of this disease, 
can scarcely be regarded as permanent with the conditions of hardship and 
climate under which such previously infected men, returned to duty, will 
probably be required to serve. 

Among other measures of prevention may be mentioned the location of 
barracks on dry, elevated, sunny sites ; the provision of sufficient cubic space, 
proper lighting and thorough ventilation ; the avoidance of sharp corners or 
projecting ledges upon which dust can collect, and the rendering of floors 
impermeable with paraffine. Spitting on the floors and walls of buildings, 
aside from its being an offense against neatness and decency, should be 
prohibited for sanitary reasons in connection with this disease. Metallic 
cuspidors of a pattern readily cleansed should be provided, and should 
contain a small quantity of some odorless disinfectant solution so as to 
keep the sputum in a moist condition. These receptacles should be 
cleansed and scalded daily. Box cuspidors containing sawdust, as too 
often found in barracks, should never be employed. They are not only 
a danger to health but are often ignited by cigar and cigarette stubs. In 
the routine cleaning of barrack-rooms the use of dusters should be avoided ; 
all dust should be removed from shelves and projecting ledges by means 
of damp cloths. It should not be forgotten that a squad-room which 
has contained a case of tuberculosis is not safe for occupancy by others 
until disinfected. Meat from tuberculous animals should be rejected for 
issue. An abundant diet containing a considerable amount of fat appears 
to be of value in the prevention as well as the treatment of this disease. 
Chilling and exposure, which favor bronchitis and pleurisy, predispose to 
tuberculosis and should be avoided. Systematic exercise in the open air, 
especially such exercise as increases the mobility and capacity of the chest, 
is desirable. 

With reference to the measures to be applied to the affected individual, 
the disinfection of the sputum and other discharges from persons suffering 
from various manifestations of the disease is of the most importance. The 
patient should be impressed with the fact that he is at all times a possible 
source of infection, and that it is quite within his power to control the 
spread of the disease to others, and perhaps to avoid re-infection in his own 
case, by proper attention to a few simple details which in no way interfere 
with his comfort. Special spit-cups should always be provided for the 
sick ; since otherwise while endeavoring to use the ordinary receptacles on 
the floor they will frequently cause the contamination of the latter. When 
the spit-cups cannot be used, clean rags or rice-paper napkins may be em- 
ployed, and these subsequently destroyed by fire. Bed or body cfothing, 
soiled with tuberculous material, should be at once removed and disinfected. 
The clothing or bedding of the tuberculous should never be used by the 
well. All blankets should be frequently sunned, and great care taken to 
prevent their being shaken under circumstances which would allow the 
dust to be inhaled or become a means of infection to others. The tuber- 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 741 

culous individual should be provided with separate eating utensils, and 
these should be disinfected after use ; the uneaten portions of food should 
be burned. All personal contact between the healthy and the tuberculous 
is to be avoided as much as possible. 

TYPHUS FEVER. 

Occurrence. An entire chapter might be devoted to the historical 
pathology of typhus or spotted fever. The disease is as old as the disputes 
of nations and has occurred in formidable epidemics among troops in the 
field from antiquity down nearly to the present time. During peace it has 
always been of comparatively subordinate importance, although its occur- 
rence in armies has given rise, from time to time, to disastrous outbreaks in 
the neighboring civil population. It is known to have prevailed during the 
Peloponnesian war; and in 1489 it destroyed 17,000 of the troops of Fer- 
dinand at the siege of Grenada. In 1528, at the siege of Naples, over 
5,000 of the French nobility lost their lives from typhus in a period of 
about three weeks, and the French army of 30,000 men was almost de- 
stroyed. In 1542, in the German army at Ofen, according to Hauser, 
typhus claimed 30,000 victims. Before Metz, in 1552, the besieging 
Spanish army lost 30,000 men in less than two months, compelling the 
abandonment of the siege. The roads taken by the retreating army were 
said to have been lined with the dead and dying. In 1586, it decimated 
the army of Maximilian II. ; in 1620, the Bavarian troops serving in Bo- 
hemia lost over 20,000 men from spotted fever. In 1628 and 1632 the 
disease ravaged the Swedish army. Both the Royal and Parliamentary 
armies in England, in 1643, suffered severely from typhus; in the wars of 
Louis XIV. it caused enormous losses in the French army. At the siege of 
Torgau in 1760, it is said that over 30,000 men, out of a total of 35,000, 
died of this disease in a few months. Typhus is reported as having been one 
of the great factors in the mortality of our troops during the Revolution ; and 
in 1790 the losses among the Russians from this disease were so great 
that operations against the Turks had to be suspended. In 1799, typhus 
decimated Genoa and the French force besieging it. The greatest recorded 
ravages of this disease, however, occurred during the later wars of the first 
Napoleon. At Saragossa, out of 100,000 people, 54,000 are reported as hav- 
ing died, chiefly from epidemic typhus. At Dantzic and Wilna, and during 
the retreat from Moscow, vast numbers of French troops perished from 
typhus. In May, 1812, the Bavarian allies of the French mustered 28,000 
men in February, 1813, it is said that this disease had left of this num- 
ber but 2,500 to bear arms. In August, 1813, the first Prussian army of 
60,000 men had lost one-sixth of its strength from an epidemic of typhus. 
Murchison states that in Mayence alone, of the 60,000 French troops com- 
posing the garrison in 1813, no less than 25,000 died of typhus in six 
months. According to Rawlinson, of the French armies around Paris, after 
the retreat from Russia, 40,000 men died of typhus in six weeks one-fifth 
of the remaining force being sick. This disease raged in all the contending 
armies during the Crimean War, particularly among the French troops. 
Aitken says: "In the spring of 1856 it was computed that more than 17,- 
000 men of the French force j)erished in less than three months, chiefly 



742 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

from typhus." Baudens declared that of the typhus cases in hospital in 
February, 1856, two- thirds were devoted to certain death. The deaths 
among the French medical officers during this outbreak amounted to 48, 
and there was said to have been scarcely one that escaped attack. 

Typhus undoubtedly did not occur among our troops during the Civil 
War, although a small number of cases were diagnosed as this affection. 
It prevailed among the French troops in Mexico, especially on board the 
ships which conveyed the native forces from northern Africa. Cous- 
tan says of these troops that they "suffered a cruel loss." In 1862-63, 
and again in 1867, typhus attacked the French garrisons in Algeria; Mar- 
vaud stating that of 'one body of 3,500 troops, 1,200 died from this dis- 
ease. Its existence during the Franco-German War in 1870-71 is dis- 
puted. During the Russo-Turkish War in 1878, it was said that one time 
the cases of typhus were so numerous in the Turkish army as to threaten 
its disorganization, and the conditions in the Russian army were not much 
better. After the capture of Plevna, according to Coustan, 50,000 men 
out of a total of 120,000 died during the period of inactivity, and in May 
and June of 1879 it is stated that half the Russian forces near Constanti- 
nople were prostrated with this disease. 

Typhus fever, in the military service, is essentially a disease of camps 
and sieges. Of late years, the affection has lost much of its importance 
to the military sanitarian. Its geographical distribution is not great ; and 
at present, in time of peace, it occurs only among troops stationed in south- 
eastern Europe, where the disease is endemic. In the Russian army, for 
the period 1890-97, the rates per thousand were as follows : 



Year. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


Year. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


1890.. 


0.6 


0.04 


1894 


0.7 


0.05 


1891 


.9 


.07 


1895 


.3 


.03 


1892 


1.8 


.14 


1896 


.3 


.02 


1898 






1897 


.2 


.02 















In the Austrian army there were 9 cases in 1897, 4 in 1896 and 8 in 
1894. There has been no well-authenticated outbreak of this disease in 
our own army within the past half-century. A number of localized epi- 
demics of typhus have, however, prevailed in the civil population of the 
country, the infective agent being in every case imported from abroad. 

Direct and Predisposing Causes. The specific exciting cause of 
typhus fever has not as yet been isolated ; it is said that the disease has 
recently been experimentally produced in Russia by inoculation with the 
blood of typhus patients. It is universally admitted that the most im- 
,portant influences predisposing to its epidemic occurrence are want, misery 
and hardship. Typhus appears to be largely favored by over-crowding and 
lack of proper ventilation ; cold weather, as shown in the Crimean War, 
probably indirectly promotes its occurrence among troops for these rea- 
sons. Viry notes that typhus was prevalent in public institutions in the 
city of Metz, in 1870, when it did not appear among the French troops, 
living in shelter-tents just outside the walls. Poor food, dampness, fatigue 
and other conditions lowering the resistive powers together with psy- 
chical depression have much to do with epidemics of this disease. 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 743 

Typhus fever is highly contagious, in the strict sense of the word ; and 
there is probably no disease which has been more frequently contracted 
from the sick by their attendants. Thus at Plevna, nearly all the medical 
officers were attacked; while during the Crimean War 12.8 per cent, of the 
medical officers and only .4 per cent, of line officers, among the French 
troops, died from typhus. As with smallpox, the specific virus appears to 
be distinctly transmissible from the sick to the well through the surround- 
ing atmosphere, and infection appears to take place by way of the air 
passages. The poison may be harbored by and carried from place to place 
in fomites. Jacquot, in speaking of typhus during the Crimean War, says 
that "wherever troops affected with typhus have camped, the dejections 
and excretions which have saturated the ground are fatal to troops which 
follow them." The morbific agent appears long to exist in infected cloth- 
ing and dwellings. The activities of the specific virus are favored by 
unsanitary conditions ; and where the disease is introduced among troops 
which are poorly nourished and insufficiently clothed, and living under 
conditions implying over-crowding, there is every likelihood of an epi- 
demic outbreak of the fever. The incubation period is variously stated at 
from six to fourteen days ; though there appear to be some well authenti- 
cated cases in which it was not more than two to five days. The disease 
is most common during the period of youth and early maturity, as found 
in young soldiers, but the mortality is lower than among those of greater 
age. 

Prevention. It is manifest that the prophylactic measures against 
the disease are those that aim to prevent its introduction from without, 
and those that are designed to eliminate all local conditions favorable to 
its development. Quarantine against infected points should be rigorously 
maintained. Where the disease appears among troops in garrison, the sick 
and well should promptly be placed under canvas; for the influence of 
fresh air upon the virulence and vitality of this disease is undoubtedly of 
the highest importance. The command, if large, should be broken up into 
smaller bodies. Especial attention should be given to the prevention of 
over-crowding, to ensuring an abundance and proper preparation of food, 
to the avoidance of fatiguing exercise and to the maintenance of strict san- 
itary police. Careful watch should be kept for suspicious cases and these 
should be at once isolated as they appear. It should not be forgotten that 
the aggregation, of large numbers of the sick greatly increases their rate of 
mortality, as well as the danger to the attendants. Tent hospitals should 
preferably be used, the supply of fresh air being unlimited and the floor 
space allowed to each patient being about two hundred square feet. The 
tent devised by the writer presents particular advantages for the treat- 
ment of infectious cases of such character. 

As the contagion is especially virulent near and about a patient, attend- 
ants should as far as possible avoid inhaling the emanations from the sick, 
unless protected by a previous attack. They should not stay in the imme- 
diate vicinity of typhus patients longer than necessary, and should never 
sleep in a ward. They should take plenty of sleep and good food, and 
should frequently employ disinfectant solutions on the face and hands. 
The attendants, like the sick, should of course be quarantined. Careful 
disinfection of excreta and of bed and body clothing is always called for. 



744 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

The barracks or ward, as well as all articles of furniture, clothing or equip- 
ment contained in it, should be disinfected and thoroughly aired after 
removal of the patient. 

YELLOW FEVER. 

Occurrence. Yellow fever is essentially a disease of tropical and sub- 
tropical countries, and within these it is ordinarily restricted to well-defined 
geographical limits and, to a considerable extent, to the summer or rainy 
season. Bodies of troops serving within these limits of infection for any 
length of time, during the yellow-fever season, have uniformly been more 
or less affected by it. In 1648, "there occurred in Havana, and in the 
fleet of Don Juan Pujados, a great pest of putrid fevers. A third part of 
the garrison and a larger part of the crews and passengers in the vessels 
died." The disease was extremely fatal among the British troops which 
captured Havana about three centuries ago ; and it is interesting to note 
that the regiment of loyal Americans recruited for this expedition, largely 
from the southern part of the country, was least affected. In 1740, in the 
expedition against Carthagena, its effects were most disastrous. In 1780, 
a force of 8,000 Spanish soldiers was landed at Havana, and within two 
months had lost 2,000 men from this disease. In 1794, "the vomito ap- 
peared so severely that solely of the garrison (of Havana) and of the squad- 
ron more than 1,600 victims were taken. It was indispensable to resort to 
a general levy to replace the losses on the vessels." In Hayti, during the 
rebellion of the blacks, the French army of veteran soldiers was practically 
annihilated by yellow fever. Of this epidemic, Lemure wrote: "In 1802 
an army under the orders of General Leclerc embarked for San Domingo. 
The effective strength, on leaving Brest, was 58,545 men. In four months 
50,270 men were dead; chiefly of yellow fever, which gave 82.'5 per cent, 
of the total mortality. Of the 8,275 men remaining, 3,000 were sick or 
wounded. In 1809, seven years later, this army was reduced to 300 
men, who returned to France." The French also suffered from yellow 
fever during their occupation of Mexico. According to Coustan, there 
were 1,705 cases; the fever breaking out six days after the landing at 
Vera Cruz. During the Civil War there were, in the Union forces, 1,371 
cases and 436 deaths; and in 1867 tie disease attacked a number of south- 
ern posts and caused 1,520 cases with 453 deaths. For the period 1868- 
84 the disease recurred almost annually among such of our troops as were 
stationed in the south ; the average for the whole army for this period, 
per thousand strength, giving a rate of .78 for admissions and .33 for 
deaths. For the period 1885-96 inclusive, there were no cases of yellow 
fever in our service. In 1897 there were 7 cases with 3 deaths; in 1898, 
at Santiago, there were 604 cases with 70 deaths. For the period 1868- 
98 the rate for admissions from yellow fever was 1.17 per thousand strength, 
and for deaths .26. The Spanish army in Cuba has always suffered severely 
from this disease, especially during the epidemics of 1876-77 and 1896. 
The British and French troops which have been stationed in the West 
Indies have also been repeatedly attacked. 

Cause and Mode of Dissemination. With regard to the nature of 
the materies morbi of yellow fever nothing is as yet known, though inves- 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 745 

tigations by many medical officers of our service have been, and are now 
being, vigorously prosecuted. 

Reed and Carroll, of the United States army, have recently shown that 
the mosquito is at least one of the most important agents by which the 
transmission of the disease is accomplished. Not every species of mosquito 
serves as a carrier of the infection, however, and, as with malarial disease, 
a special variety of suctorial insect serves as the intermediate host. This 
variety, for yellow fever, is the so-called Culex tiniads of Giles, but is 
classified by Theobolt in a new genus, Stegamina. The first-named ob- 
servers showed that while yellow fever may be transmitted to the non-im- 
mune individual by means of the bite of the mosquito which had previously 
sucked the blood of those sick with the disease, an interval of about twelve 
days in warm weather and eighteen days in cool weather was apparently 
necessary before the infected mosquito became capable of transmitting the 
infection. This period doubtless represents the time required for the para- 
site of yellow fever to pass from the stomach of the insect to its salivary 
glands. The bite of the infected mosquito at an earlier period after con- 
tamination, while not provoking an attack of the disease, does not appear to 
confer any immunity against a subsequent attack. While yellow fever may 
be experimentally produced by subcutaneous injection of blood taken from 
the patient during the first and second days of the disease, it has been deter- 
mined that an attack of yellow fever produced by the bite of an infected 
mosquito confers immunity against the subsequent injection of the blood of 
an individual suffering from the non-experimental form of the disease. 

A most thorough series of experiments by these observers showed that 
the excreta of the yellow-fever patient were not directly infectious to sus- 
ceptible individuals exposed to their influence, and hence the disinfection 
of articles of clothing, bedding or merchandise is not believed by them to 
be necessary. This view, of course, assumes that the mosquito is unable 
to take into its organism any infective material present in fomites, and 
that the infectivity of this insect depends wholly upon its withdrawal of 
blood from yellow-fever cases. This point remains as yet to be demon- 
strated. As with malarial fever, common experience would seem to show 
that the parasite of yellow fever must certainly be able to maintain an 
extra-corporeal existence independent of the mosquito and man, and not 
depend upon a short cycle through these two hosts alone. Many epidemic 
outbreaks have apparently followed the introduction of articles infected by 
yellow-fever patients into districts in which the disease had been unknown 
prior to that time; and until the dietary capabilities of the species of mos- 
quito in question have been accurately determined, it would be the part of 
wisdom to destroy any possible infectious element in articles contaminated 
liy the secretions of the sick. The food of the mosquito family is very 
varied and is known to include vegetable matter and fresh blood a piece 
of fresh raw meat hung up where mosquitoes have access to it being greed- 
ily attacked by them. Should the discharges in yellow fever contain the 
specific micro-organism, as would seem to be at least probable, it may be 
that the mosquito, after feeding on the bloody vomit and stools, acquires 
infective properties as regards the transmission of the disease as readily as 
if the blood were sucked by the insect directly from the yellow-fever pa- 
tient himself. Certainly such a hypothesis is reasonable, and would tend 



746 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

to explain many of the phenomena connected with the outbreak and spread 
of this disease. 

Within the yellow-fever belt, infected habitations have long been re- 
garded as the chief points from which the disease is spread, and it has not 
been considered that the yellow-fever patient, removed to good surround- 
ings, was as much to be feared as the place in which the sufferer contracted 

his infection. Experi- 
ence has shown that 
those in attendance on 
the sick in hospitals are 
not especially liable to 
contract this disease ; 
and yellow-fever pa- 
tients have not rarely 
been treated in general 
wards among suscept- 
ible patients without 
the disease being com- 
municated to the latter. 
The investigators above 
named believe that a 
house is infected with 
yellow fever only when 
there are present within 
its walls contaminated 
mosquitoes capable of 
conveying the parasite 
of this disease. From 
the long period through 
which such infectivity 
often persists in dwell- 
ings which have shel- 
tered yellow-fever cases 
far longer than the 
life of the mosquito 
the specific germ of the 
disease would, however, 
appear to retain its viru- 
lent qualities even if 
the transmitting agent, 
in the form of the mos- 
quito as an intermediate 
host, were absent. Without the latter to serve as the means of inoculation 
the disease, of course, would not occur among the inmates ; but the possi- 
bility of its later transmission, as a result of the admission of mosquitoes, 
uninfected at the time of entrance, should not be ignored. The fact that 
infection by yellow fever usually occurs at night, when mosquitoes are 
most active, has been abundantly demonstrated. During outbreaks in some 
southern cities, men who were at their places of business during the day, 
but who went out of town to sleep, were largely exempt from the disease. 



mmmm mm mm -* 
mTMmv. my mm mm m. m 



Q.QO 



m mv. */, % 



FIG. 854. Distribution by Months of ln-ains from Yellow Fever In 
the Spanish Army In Cuba, per Thousand Strength, during the 
Epidemics of 1870 and 1896. 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 747 

The incubation period is short, ranging clinically from one to five days ; 
the experimental attacks induced by Keed and Carroll had an incubation 
period ranging from forty-one hours to five days and seventeen hours. 
The accompanying diagram well shows the relative prevalence of yellow 
fever, distributed according to months, in an endemically infected region; 
it will be noticed that the disease is by far the most common during the 
months of greatest rainfall, when the propagation of the mosquito is 
favored by an abundance of water and constantly damp soil. Years in 
which an unusual amount of rain is noted are those in which the rates for 
yellow fever are above the mean. In dry years, on the contrary, the rates 
are low, and cold weather, with its inhibitory effect upon the activities of 
the mosquito, terminates the outbreaks of the disease, at least during the 
continuance of the former. 

Absolute immunity to yellow fever is not possessed by any peoples as 
a racial characteristic; though, relatively speaking, those adults who are 
permanent residents in the endemically infected zones exhibit much less 
liability to contract it than do strangers newly arrived from colder latitudes. 
In general terms, it may be considered that among adults the susceptibility 
to, and mortality from, yellow fever varies directly with the distance from 
the equator of the plac"e of nativity and residence of the individual. Ac- 
cording to Barton, of each 1,000 deaths from yellow fever which occurred 
in New Orleans in the epidemic of 1853, the distribution of mortality was 
as follows : 

Native Creoles 3.58 

Strangers from West Indies, Mexico and South America 6. 14 

Strangers from Southern United States 13.22 

Strangers from Spain and Italy 22.06 

Strangers from Middle United States 30 69 

Strangers from New York and New England 82.83 

Strangers from Western United States 44.23 

Strangers from France 48. 13 

Strangers from British America 50.24 

Strangers from Great Britain 52. 19 

Strangers from Germany 182.01 

Strangers from Scandinavia 168. 26 

Strangers from Austria and Switzerland 220.08 

Strangers from the Netherlands 828.94 

Long ago Blair wrote that among the West Indian islanders in the 
Seamen's Hospital at Demerara, Guiana, the percentage of deaths from 
yellow fever was 6.9; that of the French and Italians was 17.1; that of 
English, Irish and Scotch was 19.3; that of Germans and Dutch was 20; 
that of Swedes, Norwegians and Russians was 27.7. It has been thought 
that the Creole and African, irrespective of place of birth and residence, 
possess a racial immunity to yellow fever. This, however, does not appear 
to be the case. Such a relative immunity is probably only the result of an 
attack of the disease itself, which in early life may be so mild as scarcely to 
be recognized ; or to a much less degree, it may be due to the transmission 
of a relative insusceptibility from ancestors immunized for generations 
through attacks of the disease. It should be noted that the immu- 
nity to this disease indoubtedly possessed by many natives of the yellow- 
fever belt is more or less completely lost after removal to cooler latitudes, 
and that such individuals on their return to the zone of endemic yellow 
fever often exhibit a susceptibility equal to that of total strangers to the 



748 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

district. There is, therefore, no reason to believe that the negro primarily 
possesses any greater powers of resistance than does the white man under 
the same conditions, or that the negro bora in cold climates is as insus- 
ceptible as the negro bora and resident in the yellow-fever belt. An 
acquired or inherited immunity is the essential factor. It should be noted 
that yellow fever prevailed among the negro troops at New Orleans during 
the Civil War and caused considerable mortality; for the year 1898, the 
rates in our army for this affection, per thousand strength, were as follows : 





Admissions. 


Deaths. 




9.40 


1.04 




59.19 


7.51 









The negroes recruited for our service are rarely drawn from districts in 
which the disease has prevailed. The great difference in favor of white 
troops noted above, however, is largely to be explained by the fact that 
the colored troops of our army were nearly all present during the epidemic 
of the fever at Santiago, while a much less proportion of the total white 
troops was so exposed. Further, one colored regiment, on account of its 
supposed insusceptibility to this disease, was selected to do guard and 
police work at the yellow-fever hospital, thus largely increasing its oppor- 
tunities for infection. A fair comparison between the susceptibility of the 
unacclimated white with the negro native to the yellow-fever zone may, 
however, be drawn from the statistics for the British troops in the West 
Indies. For the decade 1888-97 the rates for yellow fever, per thousand 
strength of these troops, was as follows : 





Admissions. 


Deaths. 


Constant sickness. 


Europeans 


3.0 


1.66 


0.16 


Non-Europeans (negroes) 


.4 


.15 


.02 











Prophylaxis. In preventing the occurrence of yellow fever among 
troops, expeditions into an endemically infected district should not be car- 
ried out in the fever season. Troops intended permanently to garrison 
infected points will with advantage be recruited from the native and im- 
mune population. Soldiers should be prohibited from entering infected 
towns, and particularly from entering houses and shops, especially at night. 
With this, there should be careful protection against mosquitoes, both by the 
use of mosquito-nets in barracks and by searching out and destroying 
these insects in their adult and immature stages by the methods already 
detailed in connection with the prophylaxis of malarial fevers. Before oc- 
cupying a building in the yellow-fever zone, it should be fumigated with 
sulphur dioxide, both to accomplish disinfection and to destroy any insect 
life which may be present. 

When an epidemic occurs among the surrounding population, a careful 
quarantine against the latter should be maintained. With the outbreak of 
the disease among the troops, all cases should be promptly isolated, prefer- 
ably in tents. All discharges from the sick, especially the vomit and 
excreta, should be disinfected; if possible, by fire. The clothing and 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 749 

equipments of the soldier, and those with which he may have come in 
contact, should be disinfected, as should the tent or barrack in which the 
case appeared. If possible, the troops should be moved to a locality in 
which the fever does not exist, or better, where it has not been known to 
originate ; in this country, troops have habitually been transferred from 
southern stations to Atlanta, Ga., when an outbreak of the disease was 
apprehended. If such a locality is not available, the troops should be 
moved to high ground preferably to an elevation of at least fifteen hundred 
feet. Moving camp even a mile or so may avert an epidemic, and this pro- 
cedure should preferably be repeated with the appearance of every new case ; 
for a district once infected remains so until cold weather puts an end to the 
outbreak. Abandonment of an infected area is essential a fact repeatedly 
demonstrated in our own military service ; as at Fort Brown in 1882 and 
at Santiago in 1899. As laid down by Sternberg: "The precautions re- 
lating to food and to personal habits do not differ materially from those 
with reference to cholera. The diet should be simple, and excesses in 
eating or drinking avoided. Nothing is more likely to favor an attack 
than alcoholic excesses, or to bring about a fatal result if the disease de- 
velops. Exposure to the direct rays of the sun, excessive fatigue and 
venereal excesses are all predisposing causes which it is within the prov- 
ince of individual prophylaxis to avoid. Exposure to the night air, and 
especially sleeping out of doors near the ground, is recognized in yellow- 
fever regions as an invitation to attack. Great care should be taken to 
avoid Chilling of the body, and it is well to sleep as far above the ground 
as possible." Whether in camp or garrison, general prophylactic measures 
of importance have reference to careful sanitary police, free ventilation and 
avoidance of over-crowding. A predisposition to the disease appears to be 
caused by fatigue, especially when combined with exposure to the sun, by 
drinking and by insufficient or improper food. If the disease appear on 
board ship, the vessel should be searched for mosquitoes, and the sick should 
be treated on deck and landed as soon as possible. No prophylactic medi- 
cation is known to be of value. Various methods of preventive inoculation 
have been devised, notably by Freire and Sanarelli, but experience has 
shown these to be without effect. 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF PROPHYLAXIS AGAINST THE INFECTIOUS 

DISEASES. 

As a science, prophylaxis owes its development from the empirical 
to the rational to the results of modern bacteriological research. In the 
great majority of diseases, the etiological is no longer an unknown factor. 
Its importance, nature, habitat and r6le are well understood, and, with the 
possession of such exact knowledge, the application of measures calculated 
to terminate or modify its existence becomes readily feasible. Scientific 
prophylaxis has therefore as its cardinal principle an intimate knowledge 
of first causes. It undertakes to obtain an accurate knowledge of both the 
predisposing and exciting factors in disease, and, through logical methods, 
to remove or destroy them. It aims at an avoidance of contact with infec- 
tious matter, endeavors to prevent a condition of susceptibility to disease 
on the part of the individual and at the same time attempts to destroy or 



750 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

modify such conditions of environment as favor the existence and perpetua- 
tion of pathogenic micro-organisms. Its first object is attained through early 
recognition of the nature of infectious disease, the isolation of the sick, the 
maintenance of quarantine and by the avoidance or abandonment of in- 
fected places ; its second purpose being accomplished by the observation of 
all such measures as tend to stimulate and strengthen the powers of vital 
resistance. For its third object, in preventing the existence and propaga- 
tion of infectious germs outside the body, prophylaxis manifests itself in all 
that is implied in the term disinfection. At the risk of slight repetition, 
the chief means of preventing or controlling infectious disease among 
troops, outside of the processes of disinfection, will be given a general con- 
sideration in this connection. 

Early Diagnosis. In preventing the spread of infectious disease 
among large bodies of men, an early and accurate diagnosis of each case 
is of the first importance; since it is evident that the institution of 
special measures of prophylaxis necessarily depends upon a recognition 
of the existence of an affection of a character rendering such action advis- 
able. Sanitary officers should be prompt to realize that the early cases of 
an infectious nature, in the absence of proper precautions., are very possible 
forerunners of a serious epidemic, and as such demand far more serious 
consideration than the slight morbidity from such a cause would at first 
sight appear to warrant. The simultaneous introduction and wide dissem- 
ination of a large number of pathogenic germs is by no means essential to 
the origination of an epidemic, however much it may favor its occurrence. 
The history of infectious disease is full of instances of epidemics which 
have developed from a single and long unrecognized focus of infection; 
and in this connection, the rapid multiplication of bacterial life under 
favorable conditions should not be overlooked. An affection, the nature of 
which is for some time undetermined, may from this reason gain such a 
foothold among troops as to render its subsequent control a task of vast 
proportions, if not, indeed, almost impossible. Hence the importance of 
arriving at a prompt diagnosis in all cases of a possibly suspicious charac- 
ter, in order to justify the Carrying out of well-known and demonstratedly 
efficient measures of prevention, which are so ready and easy of applica- 
tion in the individual instance. 

Isolation. As a measure of general prophylaxis, the soldier affected 
with a transmissible disease of grave character is to be removed at once 
from the camp or common habitation, and should hold communication 
with only those persons to whose care he may have been entrusted. Un- 
der such circumstances, every precaution should be taken to render the 
isolation complete, since even the slightest laxity in its maintenance may 
wholly defeat the purpose for which the action was taken. His various 
articles of personal property should also be carefully collected, removed in 
a manner calculated to prevent possible dissemination of the infectious 
agent through handling, and at once rendered innocuous through appVoved 
methods. 

What applies to the individual is also applicable to the larger num- 
ber. In campaign, all cases of contagious or infectious disease should 
promptly be removed from the army as a whole and properly segregated ; 
while organizations in which disease has become epidemic should be de- 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 761 

tached en masse from the command, isolated and the sick removed from 
time to time as their cases subsequently develop. Such infected organiza- 
tions should never be augmented by recruits who are particularly sus- 
ceptible to diseases of an infectious character nor should they hold any 
communication with such organizations as are yet untainted. 

Troops should not be stationed where infectious disease has existed, 
unless proper measures have previously been employed for the destruction 
of the infectious agent. If an error of this kind has unfortunately been 
committed, the command which has been exposed should be at once iso- 
lated and held under careful observation for a time covering the incubation 
period of the affection, dating from the time of last exposure. This pre- 
caution, under similar conditions, should be applied also to the individual. 

In time of epidemic, suspects, like the sick, are always to be eliminated 
from the main body ; to meet their needs, special camps or stations for their 
detention and observation should be provided. Such camps need usually be 
located at no very great distance from the main body of troops, provided 
the regulations as to isolation are rigorously carried out ; since unconfined 
air will rarely be a vehicle for morbific agents and mediate or direct con- 
tact with the sick is alone to be guarded against. 

Soldiers who are convalescents from transmissible disease must not be 
relieved from restriction or returned to their camp or quarters until it is 
positive that they are no longer able to communicate their affections 
to others. With a wider understanding of the exciting causes of disease, a 
more exact definition of the period during which the sick may transmit their 
affections has become possible. As a result of this knowledge, the tendency 
is strongly toward the lengthening of the period of isolation ; since the con- 
valescent may long continue to be the host of the pathogenic organism by 
which he has undergone invasion. It is the duty of the sanitary officer to 
determine this period for each convalescent, according to the nature of his 
illness. The establishment of detention camps, for the temporary recep- 
tion of convalescents and the relief of congested hospitals, will often be 
found advisable. Unfortunately the necessity for such segregation, learned 
in the military service by hard experience, is not appreciated by the gen- 
eral public. The retention under military control of convalescents from 
infectious disease is often sorely against the wishes of friends and of the 
patients themselves, who demand permission to complete their cure at 
home. Where this has been granted, as during the war with Spain, re- 
lapses are often frequent, and perhaps also a communication of the disease 
to new circles in the civil population. 

With respect to the individual, isolation means more than simple con- 
finement to a separate room, building or locality. It comprises, in addition 
to this, the employment of a specially assigned attendant who comes in 
contact only with those under his care ; the disinfection of all infective ma- 
terial or discharges as soon as they are passed by the patient and before 
they can leave the sick-room ; the disinfection of all bed and body linen 
as soon as they are removed from the patient and before they leave his 
apartment; the provision of separate eating utensils, handkerchiefs, towels 
and instrumental accessories; the frequent cleansing with disinfectant 
solutions of the surroundings of the sick ; the frequent bathing of the at- 
tendant, and especially the careful disinfection of the hands after each 



752 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

manipulation of the patient. The special methods of disinfection are treated 
of in detail in the following chapter. 

Quarantine. The term quarantine, formerly held to apply to a period 
of time, is now employed to designate a method by which disease of trans- 
missible nature is absolutely debarred entrance into a territory, and among 
individuals, as yet uninfected. There is obviously no fixed period of quar- 
antine for all cases, but the length of this period varies according to the 
duration of incubation of the particular disease against the introduction of 
which the precaution has been taken. 

Pathogenic bacteria, even if of microscopical proportions, are nevertheless 
living entities, and as such are capable of being transported and of reproduc- 
ing, under favorable conditions, after their own kind. Since human beings 
and articles designed for human use or consumption must be regarded as 
in most instances the vehicles of infection, the efforts of the quarantine 
system are chiefly directed toward the prophylaxis of disease through their 
exclusion whenever they appear to be probable carriers of infectious ma- 
terial. Quarantine, to be of value, must be absolute; in its results an 
inefficient quarantine is practically the same as none at all. Whenever 
the system is instituted, its details should receive the constant supervision 
of superior authority, for human nature is weak and disease is insidious. 
From the nature of things, a quarantine on land, on a large scale, is ex- 
tremely difficult of accomplishment but less so in the military establish- 
ment than in civil life. 

All cases of epidemic disease, as smallpox, which occur within or in the 
vicinity of the camp or post, should be promptly known to the military 
authorities and strict measures taken to prevent contact by the troops ; by 
instructions, orders and, if necessary, the establishment of a sanitary 
cordon around the infected point. Not only should the actual cases of the 
disease be quarantined against, but also all persons and things which may 
have been exposed to the infection. These should be traced out with the 
greatest diligence by the sanitary inspector ; the inanimate objects should 
be disinfected, while the individuals who have been exposed should be 
segregated and kept under observation until the period of incubation of 
the disease concerned has passed. 

In this connection it is well to remember that pkces of public amuse- 
ment, refreshment and recreation, especially such as are in the vicinity of 
the camp or garrison, are always to be looked upon as possible foci of in- 
fection. As such, their patronage by troops should be discouraged, and, in 
time of epidemic, if necessary prevented by the use of military force. 

Avoidance. Communicable disease is transmitted by contact if not 
directly with the sick, at least with their secretions, excretions or epithelial 
detritus and the avoidance of such contact lies at the foundation of pre- 
ventive medicine. It should scarcely be necessary to insist upon the ne- 
cessity, in the prevention of disease in the military establishment, of re- 
quiring troops to avoid such material, persons, localities or structures as 
have either certainly or presumably undergone contamination by infectious 
matter. In the military service, the chances for the propagation of disease 
through the medium of infected articles are proportionately much smaller 
than in civil life, while persons sick with known contagious affections are 
instinctively shunned by all classes alike ; but habitations, particularly in 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 753 

time of war, are liable to be utilized for shelter by troops without proper 
investigation of their antecedents the considerations of present comfort 
for the time outweighing the sense of possible future misfortune. Such a 
tendency to sanitary error, on the part of both officers and men, is always 
to be repressed. Should it at any time appear desirable to occupy build- 
ings not under government control, or such barracks or other structures as 
may have been deserted by an enemy, it should be ascertained in advance 
if cases of contagious or infectious disease have occurred or have been shel- 
tered therein ; and if so, what measures looking to disinfection have been 
carried out. On such subjects, general information will be frequently 
unreliable and misleading, and hence the necessary inquiry should pref- 
erably be addressed to such competent local authority as may be able to 
answer correctly and without prejudice. A building which is ascertained 
to have contained contagious cases should always be viewed with sus- 
picion, and, if it has not been properly disinfected, should under no cir- 
cumstances be occupied even temporarily. If near a camp, and hence a 
constant menace to the health of the command, such a building should 
either be guarded against entry by troops, be properly disinfected or de- 
stroyed by fire. 

Abandonment. As foci for the dissemination of infectious disease are 
always to be removed from a military force, so also the removal of such 
military force from a locality which appears to have become thoroughly 
impregnated with infectious material becomes imperative. This procedure 
must be carried out without delay. Removal to even a comparatively 
short distance is frequently sufficient to cut short serious outbreaks, par- 
ticularly with regard to yellow fever, malaria and dysentery. If possible, 
the site selected for the new camp should present such conditions of alti- 
tude, soil, moisture and surface configuration as are recognized as being 
unfavorable to the development of the causative agents of the affection 
which it is desired to escape. In abandoning an infected encampment, all 
tentage and spare equipment should be left behind for careful disinfection. 
The men should be required to bathe immediately before deserting the 
camp ; and such disinfection of the person and clothing as may be feasible 
should be prescribed. If the movement be to another camp of an intended 
semi-permanent character, the latter is best prepared in advance for the 
reception of the troops. The sick and all cases of a suspicious character 
must be rigorously eliminated prior to the departure of the command, and 
under no circumstances should they be permitted to accompany it on the 
march or follow later to the new camp. 

Provided there be justifiable reason for belief that the infection is so 
localized that its destruction in this way can be properly accomplished, 
a practice march of ten days, the troops living in shelter-tents meantime, 
will afford an excellent opportunity for the application of radical measures 
of disinfection throughout the temporarily deserted post or encampment. 

Troope among whom infectious disease is epidemically prevailing, should 
move camp frequently but should not continue on the march. Fatigue is 
a marked factor in lowering vital resistance and so directly predisposing to 
infection ; besides which there would always be the probability of distribut- 
ing the germs of disease along the route traversed by the command. 

The scattering of the men in small groups over a wide area constitutes 
48 



754 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

an excellent means of breaking up and controlling epidemics of disease 
among large bodies of troops. 

Individual Hygiene. As regards the individual, prophylaxis is 
largely hygienic in its nature, and its aims are toward the production or 
maintenance of such a standard of bodily health as will best resist invasion 
of the organism by disease. As already stated, infectious germs do not 
possess the power of unconditionally entering the economy and disturbing 
its functions. For the production of disease there must be invasion by the 
special pathogenic micro-organism, together with circumstances permitting 
its subsequent existence and perpetuation. Hence the maintenance of 
health-giving principles, the results of which are manifested in increased 
vital resistance, is the great object of prophylaxis. The latter purposes to 
secure this object by suitable hygienic measures, and at the same time to 
remove or modify, so far as it may be possible, all unfavorable and debil- 
itating conditions of environment. 

The health of the individual is powerfully affected by the conditions 
under which existence is maintained, although predisposing causes of dis- 
ease may also be present within the organism itself. As a result of sur- 
roundings, the struggle for existence may be of no great severity, but, on 
the other hand, they may render the maintenance of life extremely pre- 
carious. Care devoted to the improvement of environmental conditions in 
the military service is well repaid by greater efficiency, and every attention 
should be given to secure an excellent quality of clothing, proper venti- 
lation, cleanliness and freedom from dampness of the habitation, personal 
cleanliness and a sufficiency of physical exercise. 

Susceptibility to disease varies inversely with the standard of nutrition, 
and prolonged famine is always followed by pestilence. Hence the pre- 
vention of disease in the individual will largely depend upon the careful 
observance of all such measures as are calculated to assist in the nourish- 
ment of the organism. In time of epidemic, or when such an outbreak 
threatens, the food supply should be especially varied, abundant, nutritious 
and stimulant. Special articles of diet, appetizingly prepared, should be 
issued without particular regard to an increased drain on the company fund, 
since no financial outlay for such a purpose can compare with the cost of 
an outbreak of epidemic disease in a large body of troops. Excesses of all 
kinds, particularly those of an alcoholic nature, should at such times be 
carefully avoided. 

It has repeatedly been demonstrated, both by practical experience and 
laboratory experiment, that prolonged and excessive fatigue exerts a mark- 
edly depressing effect on the resistive powers of the organism against dis- 
ease. Foreign sanitary officers have long noted an increase in typhoid 
fever and other affections following the arduous exertion incident to the 
annual military manoeuvers an increase which they regard as only par- 
tially due to the temporary exposure to unusual sources of infection. It is 
evident, therefore, that during the unusual prevalence of sickness, and par- 
ticularly in the presence of an epidemic, all drills and fatiguing exercises 
should be reduced to the practical minimum; without, indeed, actually 
condemning troops to that state of ennui and inactivity which in itself 
may be a strong predisposing factor in the occurrence of disease. 

Since the mental state exerts a marked effect upon the physical condi- 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



755 



tion, the spirits of the men should be sustained in every way through 
healthful amusements and recreation. Sanitary regulations specially ap- 
plicable to existing conditions are to be duly brought to the notice of the 
command, but not in such a manner as to excite unnecessary apprehension. 
The observance of a quiet, calm demeanor on the part of officers, during 
time of epidemic, is all that will be necessary to insure the maintenance of 
a similar condition on the part of the men. Above all things, a condi- 
tion of mental depression or panic is to be avoided. 

It should never be forgotten by the sanitary officer that, in carrying out 
precautionary measures against disease among troops, the chief obstacle to 
success is found in the carelessness and ignorance of the soldiers themselves. 

Artificial Immunization. This means of prophylaxis has already 
been touched upon, in certain of its details, in connection with several of 
the infectious diseases common among soldiers ; and it is obvious that no 
general discussion of this many-sided and as yet largely undeveloped sub- 
ject can be taken up in a work of this special character. There is little 
doubt, however, that the military sanitarian of the future will find in pro- 
tective inoculation, as with vaccination, one of his most potent aids in the 
prevention of infectious disease among troops. Much has already been 
accomplished along these lines, and there is abundant authority for the 
statement that "the problems relating to immunity have been, in part at 
least, removed from the realm of pure hypothesis and placed in a position 
favorable to exact experimental solution." 



II. 

DISEASES LARGELY DEPENDENT UPON EXPOSURE. 

BRONCHITIS. 

This affection, in our army, is one of the most frequent causes whereby 
soldiers are rendered temporarily incapacitated for duty. Its mortality in 
young men of the military age, when occurring idiopathically, is, however, 
small. In the United States service, the admissions for bronchitis, since 
the year 1860, underwent a certain decrease during the period of peace 
but were raised by field service, being as follows : 



Period. 



AdmiMions per 
1,000 strength. 

1861-66 92.94 

1868-84 77.78 

1885-94.. I5MJ7 



Period. 



Admission* per 
1,000 strength. 

1895-98 75.48 

Year 1897 59.72 

Year 1898. . . 100.65 



Bronchitis may be brought about by a great variety of causes. There 
are those who regard it as largely due to an invasion of the respiratory 
tract by some specific micro-organism as yet undetermined, and any irritant 
gas or dust may produce it. In the military service, however, the evidence 
is conclusive as to the chief part in its origination being played by expos- 
ure and cold, particularly the latter. Reports for our army have for many 
years shown its greatest prevalence to occur in the more northern military 
departments and stations ; and the remarkable influence of cold weather in 
inducing this affection, as determined by months, is well shown in the 
accompanying diagram. It would seem to be abundantly demonstrated 



756 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

that, for our army, idiopathic bronchitis chiefly results from exposure to 
cold ; this interrupting the eliminative functions of the skin, whereby an 
increased duty is thrown on the pulmonary mucous membrane, with its 
resulting congestion. This hypothesis largely explains the commonly ob- 
served fact that outbreaks of considerable magnitude not infrequently occur 
among bodies of troops, which are naturally exposed to the same meteoro- 
logical and environmental conditions. Age is a factor of great importance 
in the occurrence of the disease, very young and very old soldiers being par- 



I II II II II II II II II II 

II II II II II ll 



FIG 355. Monthly Rates of Occurrence of Bronchitis, per Thousand Strength, for the United States Army, 

during the Decade 1875-84. 

ticularly liable to it. For the period 1890-96, figures showing the dis- 
tribution of bronchitis, according to age, are as follows : 



Age. 



Admissions per 
1,000 of each class. 



19 and under 132.08 

20 to 24 inclusive 83.70 

25 to 29 " 60.66 

30 to 34 " 57.15 

35 to 39 u .... 53.98 



Admissions per 
Age - 1,000 of each class. 

40 to 44 inclusive 60.52 

45 to 49 - 61.39 

50 to 54 u 70.75 

55 to 59 " 88.60 



The greater exposure incident to mounted service explains the higher 
rates, for the above seven-year period, given by cavalry, 76.08 per thousand 
strength, as compared with infantry, 63.18 per thousand strength. The 
same condition also explains the greater frequency of this affection among 
troops in the field as compared with those in garrison ; the proportion of 
cases during the year of war, 1898, being almost twice as great as during 
the year of peace, 1897. In many instances, wetting of the person, where 
an early cutaneous reaction is not secured, is followed by bronchitis. In 
barracks, this affection often appears to be directly associated with the 
use of an excessive quantity of water for the cleansing of floors and the 
damp atmosphere thus produced though sometimes the opposite appears 
to be the case, as when an insufficient amount of moisture is imparted to 
the air of an artificially heated room, the suspended particles of dry dust 
being particularly irritant to the respiratory tract under such conditions. 

In the prevention of idiopathic bronchitis, the avoidance of surface 
chilling, whether from insufficient protection, draft or wetting, should be 
avoided. Wet clothing should be replaced by dry garments as soon as 
possible, the body being wiped and rubl>ed vigorously to restore capillary 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



757 



circulation. The barracks should be dry, warm and well ventilated without 
being drafty. The clothing issued should be of good quality and suited to 
the climate and season ; more than that, its proper use should be enforced, 
and soldiers should not be allowed to go from a warm barracks into a cold, 
damp atmosphere without donning additional protection or seeing that their 
outer garments are well buttoned up. On guard, especially in wet or foggy 
weather, it is important that the person be well protected. When men 
are wet and chilled from exposure, the issue of hot soup or coffee is desir- 
able. During a march in cold or wet weather it would seem that mouth- 
breathers are more liable to contract the disease. As far as possible, duty 
which implies exposure to inclement weather should be avoided. There 
is no doubt that troops long in the field, and habituated to exposure, are less 
liable to contract bronchitis than are new troops subsequently brought under 
the same conditions. 

RHEUMATISM AND MYALGIA. 

Under this heading are included, in our official nomenclature, all affec- 
tions of a rheumatic nature not specifically diagnosed as rheumatic fever. 
Until 1884, rheumatic .fever was also included in the figures for rheumatism 
in general, and hence statistics for muscular rheumatism are not satisfac- 
tory prior to that year. These affections are responsible for a large amount 
of inefficiency and loss of service ; notwithstanding the fact that many such 
cases, through their insignificance, receive treatment and are returned to 
duty without being taken up on sick report. On the other hand, it is 
probable that the rates for subacute rheumatism and myalgia are unduly 
raised by fraud, since these conditions are the ones most frequently selected 
by malingerers for simulation. Since 1884, the admissions to sick report 
for these affections, per thousand strength, have been as follows: 



Period. Admissions. 

Decade 1884-93 88.34 

Year 1894 63.88 

Year 1895.. . 64.08 



Period. Admission*. 

Year 1896 79.33 

Year 1897 65.12 

Year 1898. . . 72.88 



While the cause of these affections is unknown, they are markedly in- 
fluenced in their frequency by moisture and, to a less degree, by cold. 
They attain their maximum prevalence among troops in this country in 
early spring and late fall, coinciding with the periods of greatest rainfall. 
In their geographical distribution, they are highest in those military de- 
partments in which the humidity is great ; in posts, those in which damp 
casemates and old badly constructed barracks are in use. 

Among our troops, the negro soldiers appear to be far more prone to 
affections of this character than are the whites, the rates for these two 
classes being as follows : 



Year or Period. 


Admissions per 
1,000 white soldiers. 


Admissions per 
1.000 negro soldiers. 


1884-98... 


79.68 


121.60 


1894 


ti'J ^7 


7-J s7 


1895 


61.40 


1C, 117 


1896 


7.-. 7! 


117.74 


1897 


61.80 


100.74 


1898 


(is -js 


182.81 









758 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

The great difference shown by the above figures is even more note- 
worthy when it is considered that the negro troops have, during the above 
period, been stationed in the western military departments in which, for 
white soldiers, these affections are of relatively infrequent occurrence. The 
latter occur more frequently among young soldiers than among those of 
somewhat longer service, probably through greater carelessness with regard 
to exposure. In the class of very old soldiers the rate is, however, high. 

In the prevention of subacute rheumatism and myalgia, dryness of per- 
son and surroundings appears to be of by far the most importance, as is 
well shown in the previous section devoted to a consideration of casemates 
as habitations. Wetting of the person should, as far as possible, be avoided, 
and damp clothing and bedding should be at once removed and dried. 
Clothing which has been rendered repellent to moisture by the use of lano- 
lin should be issued ; and all clothing should be sufficient and adapted to 
climate, season and weather. Barracks should be warm, dry and well 
ventilated, should have a sunny exposure and be located on a dry site. 
The use of casemates as quarters for troops is to be vigorously opposed. 
When rheumatism and myalgia largely prevail in a post or barracks, a 
general inspection as to dryness of cellars and foundation walls is indicated. 



ACUTE ARTICULAR RHEUMATISM. 

Figures with regard to the prevalence of acute articular rheumatism 
in the United States army are not comparable for the period prior to 1884 
with the period subsequent to that year, for the reason given in the pre- 
ceding section. Since 1884 the differentiation of rheumatic fever has 
been required ; and since that year the admission rates for acute articular 
rheumatism have been as follows : 



Pprinri Admission* per 

1,000 strength. 

1885-94 5 10 

1895-98 . 5.26 



Period. 



Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 

Year 1897 4.36 

Year 1898.. . 7.03 



These rates for acute articular rheumatism are much lower than those 
of nearly all foreign armies. In the German army, the occurrence of this 
disease has been as follows : 



Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 

1881-82 to 1885-86 9.2 

1886-87 to 1890-91 9.8 

1891-92 to 1895-96.. . 8.9 



Period. 



Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 

Year 1895-96 7.7 

Year 1896-97.. . 6.8 



In the Austrian army, the rates for acute articular rheumatism appear 
to be higher than in any other service, having been as follows during the 
past few years : 



Tew. 
1893 . . 


Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 
11 3 


1894 


. 12 2 


1895 . . 


. 11.6 



Tear. 

1896. 
1897. 



Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 

.... 10.4 
9.2 



The true nature and origin of acute articular rheumatism are still un- 
known. Taking into consideration the many forms in which the disease 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



759 



manifests itself, it is certain that no neurotic theory and no hypothesis of 
perverted metabolism can fully account for all the phenomena presented, 
many of which strongly suggest a microbic infection. No micro-organism 
has as yet been shown to be the cause of rheumatism ; but the same is true 
of such undoubtedly microbic diseases as measles, scarlet fever, whooping- 
cough and syphilis. The strongly marked hereditary predisposition to 
rheumatism causes no difficulty, for the same fact is observed in tubercu- 
losis. That exposure to cold and wet is often a factor in the causation of 
a rheumatic attack is analogous to what is often observed in pneumonia. 
Exposure, however, is a factor of such importance in the occurrence of 
rheumatism that, in default of accurate information as to its cause, the dis- 
ease is most conveniently classed in this connection with those induced by 
cold, wet, dampness and exposure. Rheumatism has a certain relation to 
season. Coustan showed that for the French army the amount of rheuma- 
tism was much greater during the winter months than in spring or sum- 
mer; in autumn, rheumatism was only about one-third as prevalent as 
during winter. Local conditions, as shown by figures for our army, appear 
to have far more to do with the occurrence of rheumatism than geographi- 
cal considerations. Race exerts a certain influence ; the admissions for this 
disease being lower for white troops than for colored troops. Age is a factor 
of some importance, the rates for the seven years 1890-96, per thousand 
strength, being as follows : 



ARC. 



Admissions per 
1,000 or each claw. 



19 and under 8.61 

20 to 24 inclusive 5.71 

25 to 29 " 4.11 

30 to 84 .4.06 



Admissions per 
Aee - 1,000 of each class. 

85 to 39 inclusive 4.26 

40 to 44 u 5.01 

45 to 49 . 5.58 



There appears to be no great difference, according to the branch of 
service, as regards liability to rheumatism. Exhaustion and chilling es- 
pecially wetting often appear markedly to favor the disease ; but it un- 
doubtedly at times happens that regiments are long exposed to damp, wet, 
cold, sudden and violent changes of temperature, and are obliged to sleep 
on wet ground with but scanty protection, yet no cases of acute rheumatism 
follow. The disease appears to be much less prevalent in garrison than in 
the field ; when it occurs in garrison it would seem that the causative agent 
finds its most favorable field for development in damp, badly -aired barracks 
and casemates and the same applies to damp bedding or clothing. Re- 
current attacks of rheumatism may perhaps be fresh infections or they may 
be caused by renewed activity on the part of germs lying quiescent in some 
part of the organism, as with tuberculosis. As the individual who has 
been infected with syphilis is always syphilitic, so it may be that the 
soldier who has once suffered from rheumatism may be permanently rheu- 
matic, and temporary diminution of the powers of vital resistance by chill- 
ing may suffice to produce an acute recrudescence. 

It is evident that, in the absence of knowledge as to the etiology of 
rheumatism, it is difficult to formulate any definite plan for its prevention. 
As a matter of the first importance in reducing future rates for rheumatism, 
it would be desirable that all those affected more than once with the dis- 
ease should be eliminated from the service. Much may be done toward 



760 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

preventing the development of rheumatic attacks by providing dry, sunny 
barracks, by frequent exposure of bedding and clothing to the sun, the 
prompt changing of wet garments and, in the field, the location of camps 
on well-drained sites and care in keeping the men above the surface of the 
ground while asleep. A sufficiency of clothing, especially of woolen mate- 
rial, is of importance. 

III. 

DISEASE PRODUCED BY AN IMPROPER DIETARY. 
SCURVY. 

Occurrence. Scurvy, from time immemorial down to a comparatively 
recent period, has been the scourge of armies, especially during campaign. 
In the thirteenth century, scurvy ravaged the hosts of the Crusaders and 
since that time it appears to have been almost continually present during 
active military operations until within the last score of years. Instances 
of its epidemics could be multiplied almost indefinitely. At Thorn, in 
1703, during the Spanish siege, 6,000 men died of scurvy. During the 
Napoleonic wars it crippled the efficiency of the French troops in Egypt ; 
in 1801, and in 1807 and 1808, it ravaged the garrisons in Prussia. In 
the war of 1812 it was noted as being very prevalent among our troops; 
and Rosse states that among 1,016 United States soldiers marching to 
and garrisoning the post of Council Bluffs, in 1820, there were 516 cases 
of scurvy and 168 deaths from this cause. The disease occurred among 
our troops, to some extent, during the invasion of Mexico ; and for the 
eighteen years prior to the outbreak of the Civil War the admission rate 
for scurvy was 26.3 per thousand strength. During the Crimean War, 
23,365 cases occurred in the French army, the Turkish force was almost 
destroyed by it, and the cases in the British army amounted to 17,557. 
In the various hospitals at Constantinople, according to Marvaud, there 
were treated, in 1855, no less than 14,879 cases of scurvy, of whom 1,407 
died; in 1856 there were 10,295 cases with 1,509 deaths. It prevailed 
among our troops during the Civil War, and its recognition was a surprise 
and shock to professional ideas preconceived from practice in civil life. In 
spite of all effort to the contrary, there were 46,913 cases of this disease 
in the Union forces during the period 1861-66, giving an admission rate 
of 19.80 per thousand strength. There were 771 deaths directly ascribed 
to scurvy during this period, but no record of its well-known influence 
in bringing other diseases to a fatal termination was obviously to be made. 
After the conclusion of the Civil War, it prevailed to a great extent among 
our troops serving at frontier stations; there being 887 cases in 1868 and 
211 cases in 1869. There were 115 cases in 1871; after which the rates 
for this disease fell rapidly on account of the greater facilities afforded 
troops for procuring vegetables both through better means of commdnica- 
tion and from the gardens which were gradually established at military 
posts. In the first few years after the Civil War, there were several minor 
outbreaks of great severity. 

During the Franco-Prussian War, while the number of cases of scurvy 
was not great, a general scorbutic tendency was thought to have done much 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 761 

to increase the mortality among the troops. Rosse states that in the Rus- 
sian army, in 1873, the number of cases of scurvy amounted to 53 per 
thousand. In the Russo-Turkish War of 1878 it was present in both 
armies. In our own service, for the decade 1885-94, there were 27 cases, 
of which 18 occurred in 1888 and 5 in 1889. From 1892 to 1898, inclu- 
sive, only 1 case was reported. The addition of an abundance of fresh 
vegetables to the ration, in 1890, was undoubtedly most potent in remov- 
ing the scorbutic predisposition previously existing among our troops. In 
the British service, in spite of all precautions, a few cases of scurvy are 
constantly present ; particularly among troops in India, in which the rate 
of admission was 7.4 per thousand for the decade 1887-96. The admis- 
sions for the decade 1888-97, for the entire British army, amounted to 
.4 per thousand. In the German army, in 1897, there were reported 74 
cases of scurvy and purpura. Coustan states that in the French service a 
number of minor outbreaks have lately occurred among troops stationed 
in Algeria. For the Russian and Austrian armies, the rates of admission 
for this disease, per thousand strength, have lately been as follows: 



Year. 


Ruwia. 


Austria. 


1892 


1 7 


1 7 


1898 


1 9 


2 8 


1894 


1 7 


1 2 


1895 


1 5 


1 4 


1896 


1 8 


1 


1897 


1.2 


1 









Through a better knowledge of its etiology, scurvy is now quite rare 
among troops. Its insidious character, however, favors a possibly unnoted 
invasion, its frequency renders it unfamiliar and the very knowledge of the 
efficient means possessed for its prevention gives a false idea of security. 
It is a mistake to regard scurvy as being attendant solely on the unhygienic 
conditions of past centuries, long voyages, famine diets or special cases of 
privation. The dyscrasia for troops in the field is rather to be regarded as 
merely latent and requiring but a temporary interference with the dis- 
tribution of supplies, and a brief subjection to depressing influences, to 
render its existence apparent though not necessarily in the aggravated 
form with which the continued action of its cause characterized it in former 
times. The imminence of scurvy, under any circumstances where a proper 
nutritive standard is departed from, should be fully appreciated by the 
sanitary officer. 

Cause. -^Scurvy is due to an ill balanced dietary in which fresh vege- 
tables and their salts are deficient. Salt meat and fresh meat which has 
undergone putrefactive changes, but is still eatable is considered to favor 
the occurrence of scurvy. As predisposing causes, excessive fatigue and 
overcrowding of quarters may be mentioned. Cold and humidity are also 
powerful factors, although scurvy is by no means uncommon in warm 
climates. Besides these, depression of spirits, nostalgia and lack of exer- 
cise play no unimportant parts. As illustrating the latter point, an in- 
stance is recorded where a number of prisoners of war were removed on 
board ship and fed on exactly the same diet as those on shore. The men 
on shipboard contracted the disease the prisoners on shore did not. 



762 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Scurvy, occurring in the military service, usually at once assumes an 
epidemic character, through the fact that large numbers of men are gen- 
erally at the same time exposed to the conditions to which the disease 
owes its origin. From this fact, scurvy was long thought to be contagious. 
The disease has great respect for military rank and rarely occurs in offi- 
cers ; a fact due to their better nutrition and lessened exposure to depress- 
ing conditions. It has a marked tendency to occur in convalescents, and 
may frequently be associated with other diseases, to whose attacks it im- 
parts additional severity. In the Crimean War, typhus which had occurred 
in a scorbutic patient was said to have been uniformly fatal. Winter is 
particularly the season when scorbutic manifestations appear ; this being the 
season when fresh vegetable material is scarce and troops are largely con- 
fined, through the inclemency of the weather, in the vitiated air of their 
quarters. Sometimes scurvy occurs in the autumn. This was the case 
at the Crimea, when 500 cases occurred among the French troops during a 
period of three months. 

While the symptomatic diagnosis of scurvy is not a subject for dis- 
cussion in a work of this character, it may be here remarked that scurvy 
is usually seen, by medical officers, in the early stages, at which time it 
not infrequently simulates muscular rheumatism and is liable to be mis- 
taken for the results of simple exposure to wet and cold. The charac- 
teristic symptoms of the disease are later manifestations. Among the 
conditions not infrequently present as a result of scorbutus are acrodynia 
and hemeralopia or night-blindness. Both have prevailed epidemically 
in armies. Hammond noted the presence of hemeralopia among our troops 
in Kansas and New Mexico, and even as late as 1884 it figured in the 
army returns. During the Crimean War, both French and English suf- 
fered from this affection, and after the capture of Sebastopol the num- 
ber of hemeralopics was said to have been so great in the French army 
that certain regiments could not furnish the necessary number of men 
to mount guard. The condition has repeatedly been caused to disap- 
pear by improvement in the character of the food supplied. In this 
connection, mention may be made of ulcerative stomatitis; which, formerly 
common in armies, is now rare. This affection undoubtedly depends upon 
a scorbutic tendency and lowered powers of resistance resulting from mal- 
nutrition. Coustan mentions nineteen epidemics of it as having been re- 
corded in the French army between the years 1793 and 1877. 

Prophylaxis. Scurvy is an entirely avoidable affection and its exist- 
ence is a reproach to the supply and sanitary departments. The disease 
would rarely occur if the character of the food supplied corresponded with 
the natural cravings of the individual, and it is only where the use of a 
restricted and improper diet is required that its occurrence is possible. At 
the present day, its existence is evidence of lack of efficient sanitary admin- 
istration, defective transportation or short-sighted economy all being in- 
excusable. 

Scurvy may be prevented by the administration of citric, tartaric, malic, 
acetic and lactic acids or their salts. These are best given in the juices of 
fresh succulent vegetable material; fresh fruits, tubers, roots and leaves 
being better than seeds, while the leguminosse as beans or peas have no 
antiscorbutic virtues. The raw potato, onion and tomato are especially valu- 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 763 

able. Fresh cabbage is excellent, being better than sauerkraut, and radishes 
are also valuable. Where such vegetables can be obtained in abundance, 
scurvy will not appear. For troops in the field, the dandelion and "lamb's 
quarter " are frequently available and may be eaten as greens. The yellow- 
mustard and cresses can be used as salad, while the young shoots of the 
poke- weed serve an excellent purpose as a vegetable. In some regions the 
so-called scurvy-grass, or cochlearia, will be found. Woodhull recommends 
the agave as an antiscorbutic. To prepare it, the leaves are cut off close to the 
roots and well cooked in hot ashes. The juice is expressed and taken, either 
raw or sweetened, in the proportion of one to four wineglass fuls several 
times daily. All the varieties of the cactus are useful, in the absence of 
other vegetable material, in the prevention of scurvy. After roasting, the 
succulent interior, though not always very palatable, is a valuable food. 
In general, fresh vegetable matter of any variety can be used with advan- 
tage, provided only that it has no harmful qualities. Made into soups, 
nearly all are tolerably palatable. 

Wherever the authorized issue of vegetables is scanty, the supply should 
be increased, from outside sources, by every means possible; and, under any 
circumstances, post gardens should be maintained wherever practicable, 
from the excellent addition to the diet which they furnish. Dried vege- 
tables are antiscorbutic, but much less so than the fresh ; the vegetable 
acids being probably decomposed by heat and keeping. When the vege- 
tables are desiccated and compressed, a considerable proportion of these 
acids and their salts are removed and what remains is too largely cellulose. 
It is said, however, that our forces in the expedition against the Mormons, 
in Utah, owed their preservation from scurvy largely to the use of desic- 
cated vegetables, at a time when nothing else of an antiscorbutic nature 
could be obtained. The use of fresh vegetables should never be superseded 
by the preserved article when the former can be obtained. Fresh fruits, 
especially lemons, limes, grapes, oranges and acid fruits generally, are ex- 
cellent antiscorbutics. Even unripe fruits are better than none, and diar- 
rhoea may be hazarded, under certain circumstances, for the sake of their 
valuable properties. Dried and canned fruits are also of advantage. Pre- 
served lime juice has been much used on shipboard in the prevention of 
scurvy ; it has long been employed in the British army and navy, and 
forms part of the British field ration, in the proportion of half an ounce 
daily, in the absence of fresh vegetables. Excellent results have fol- 
lowed its use in this manner, and it could be adopted with advantage in 
our own service for similar conditions. Good beer and wine appear to have 
decided antiscorbutic value, and spruce beer has been made and used with 
benefit. Vinegar, one-half to one ounce daily, may be used for this 
purpose in the cooking or taken with pickles ; it was much used as an anti- 
scorbutic in the armies of antiquity. It has long been known that those 
who eat large quantities of fresh under-done meat, even though a limited 
amount of vegetable material is used, escape scurvy. This antiscorbutic 
quality of fresh meat is largely destroyed by cooking, probably through the 
splitting up under heat of the lactic acid which it contains. It is a matter 
of common observation that Indians and Esquimaux, who may eat no vege- 
table material for considerable periods but who habitually use meat, either 
raw or in a partially cooked condition, are not affected with scurvy and 



764 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

the same is true of whites who follow their example. At times when scurvy 
was prevalent in our western garrisons, the hunting parties sent out to pro- 
cure fresh supplies, living largely on under-done flesh, were notably exempt 
from this affection. The value of raw meat as an antiscorbutic has been re- 
peatedly noted by Hayes, Kane and other Arctic explorers. Kane wrote : 
"Had we plenty of frozen walrus I would laugh at scurvy." Pemmican, 
prepared with fat, sugar, raisins and currants, is an excellent antiscorbutic 
for cold climates and is much in vogue with travelers in the far north. 

Where fresh vegetables cannot be obtained, the administration of the 
vegetable acids, especially tartaric and citric acids combined with an alkali, 
is highly desirable in the prevention or treatment of scurvy. Since the 
disease is favored in its occurrence by confinement, impure atmosphere, cold, 
dampness and mental depression, any unfavorable condition of this char- 
acter should be remedied and every effort made to elevate the physical and 
mental tone of the soldier. 

IV. 
DISEASES LARGELY DEPENDENT ON MILITARY SERVICE. 

AFFECTIONS OF THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 

The influence of the conditions met with in the military service on the 
production of cardiac and vascular disorders has already been touched upon 
to some extent in connection with the subjects of marching and the car- 
riage of the equipment. 

That affections of the heart and circulatory system are more frequent 
among soldiers than in the corresponding class in civil life there can be no 
doubt ; thus, according to Eosse, aneurism is eleven times more common in 
the British army than among the civil population from which it is recruited. 
These cardiac and circulatory affections appear to be largely dependent 
upon the great mental and physical strain undergone by marching troops 
during active campaigns ; the overburdening of the soldier and the carriage 
of excessive weight by vicious apparatus, by which the action of the 
vascular system is mechanically interfered with ; the possible influence of 
poor food and exposure to inclemencies of weather; the nervous strain to 
which the recruit is subjected during his metamorphosis into the soldier ; 
the insidious influences of venereal disease and of the excessive use of 
strong tobacco and stimulants. 

As showing the important influence which the character of service 
exerts upon the occurrence of cardiac and vascular disease, statistics for 
our army for the seven-year period 1890-96, showed the admissions to sick 
report for these affections, per thousand strength, to be 6.98 for infantry, 
6.53 for artillery who are largely drilled as infantry and 4.95 for cav- 
alry. The soldiers of the Ordnance and Medical Departments, who are 
not required to perform arduous drills or carry heavy weights, and *who 
rarely use the regulation blanket-bag carrying apparatus, presented rates 
of but 4.35 and 3.70 respectively during the same period. 

Race also exerts a considerable influence on the occurrence of cardiac 
and circulatory affections; the admission rates for white and colored troops, 
per thousand strength, for the decade 1888-97, being 5.91 and 4.31 re- 



DISEASES OF THE SOLDIER. 



765 



spectively, while that for our Indian soldiers was but 2.20 for the same 
period. This influence of race in the production of heart disease is very 
evident among the native and European troops of the British forces in India. 
Moore gives the following comparison, in this respect, for the year 1895 : 



Race. 


Number of 
troops. 


Admissions per 
1.000 strength. 


Discharges per 
1,OUO strength. 


Deaths per 
1,000 strength. 


European troops 


71,081 


2.16 


0.90 


0.15 


Native Indian troops 


129,211 


.24 


.07 


.09 













Thus among the European troops the death rate was twice, the admis- 
sion rate nine times and the rate of discharges for disability from cardiac 
affections twelve times as great as among native troops. Among the white 
race, certain nationalities appear to be more predisposed to cardiac disease; 
among the soldiers of our own service, for the period 1890-96, the ad- 
missions for this cause, per thousand of each class, were as follows: 



American-born 4.71 

English 5.18 



Germans 5.19 

Irish.. . 5.34 



Climate also exerts an influence of no small importance in this respect. 
Thus, in 1899, the admission rate for circulatory diseases was 8.72 for the 
tropical islands and 6.14 for troops serving in the United States. That 
this difference was not due to the more active service in the Philippines is 
shown by the fact that the rate of admissions for those islands, 8.38, was 
smaller than for the troops in Cuba, 9.27, or those in Porto Rico, 9.39, 
during the same period. 

Age also has a considerable effect on the figures for cardiac disease, 
very young and very old soldiers being particularly liable to such affec- 
tions. Thus for the period 1890-96, the admission rates in our service, 
per thousand of each class, were as follows : 



Age. Admission rate. 

19 and under 9.83 

20 to 24 inclusive 5.94 

25 to 29 " 4.15 

30 to 84 " . 8.70 



Age. Admission rate. 

35 to 89 inclusive. . . 8.51 

40 to 44 " 6.58 

50 to 54 .8.80 



In the German army the rate of admission for cardiac disease is ex- 
ceptionally low. 



Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 

1881-82 to 1885-86 1.5 

1886-87 to 1890-91 2 

1891-92 to 1895-96. . . 2.8 



Period. 



Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 

Year 1894-95 2.9 

Year 1895-96 8.2 

Year 1896-97. . .2.9 



from 



In the Russian and Austrian armies, the rates differ but little 
those for our own service. 

The prophylaxis of cardiac and vascular disease, so far as it can be ac- 
complished, is obvious from the points which have just been considered. 
The beat opportunities for improvement would seem to lie in the lightening 
of the burden at present transported by the soldier, the adoption of a ra- 
tional apparatus for the carriage of such burden, the avoidance of over- 
exertion and too hard marching, the rejection of immature recruits and 
care not to overtax the powers of such as have been accepted for service. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

DISINFECTION. 

DISINFECTION, essentially aggressive in character, aims at the destruc- 
tion of the specific causes of infectious and contagious disease at the points 
of their origin and existence outside the structure of the living organisms 
which may from time to time become their hosts. In its processes, dis- 
infection is no longer a vague attempt in some way to influence the un- 
known, as instanced by the scattering of powdered sulphur and the build- 
ing of bonfires during epidemics in mediaeval times, but is now carried out 
in accordance with carefully elaborated scientific methods based upon 
amply demonstrated facts in the life history of the pathogenic micro-or- 
ganisms concerned. Sanitary science is no longer dealing with the indefi- 
nite and mysterious, but has to do with living pathogenic entities which are 
known to respond in every way to changes of environment as do the more 
highly organized forms of animal or vegetable life. Disinfection purposes 
to attack these morbific agents at the points where they are developed and 
from which they may be disseminated. It aims at nothing less than abso- 
lute destruction wherever possible ; but must in practice, under some cir- 
cumstances, be content with creating an environment unfavorable to the ex- 
tended propagation of the micro-organism, and while limiting its growth 
perhaps also modifying its character as regards toxicity and virulence. As 
it has for its object merely the destruction of pathogenic bacteria, infected 
articles or places may be deprived of their noxious qualities without resort- 
ing to their actual disuse or destruction. 

As defined by the Committee on Disinfectants of the American Pub- 
lic Health Association, a disinfectant is "an agent capable of destroying 
the infectious power of infectious material." With this definition in 
mind, the terms " disinfectant " and " germicide " become practically synony- 
mous. Disinfection thus implies completeness of both action and result, 
since an object on which only a portion of the micro-organisms has been 
destroyed is evidently not disinfected. " There can be no partial disinfec- 
tion. Either the infecting power is destroyed or it is not. " As both patho- 
genic and saprophytic micro-organisms are usually destroyed by the same 
processes, the terms "disinfection" and "sterilization" may, for all prac- 
tical purposes, be considered as expressing the same condition. 

An antiseptic is a substance which may have no true germicidal powers 
but which is capable of impairing the vital activity and inhibiting the prop- 
agation of micro-organisms. An active disinfectant, when present in 
great dilution, may hence become an antiseptic. A deodorant is a body 
possessing the power of destroying odors, but is not necessarily either an 
antiseptic or a germicide. A single substance, however, like chlorine or 
formaldehyde, may possess both deodorizing and disinfecting properties. 

The gennicidal power of the same substance varies greatly when ap- 



DISINFECTION. 767 

plied to different micro-organisms. Hence, in testing the value of disin- 
fectants all experiments should be applied to such as are most resistant; 
certain spore-forming bacteria being much more difficult to destroy than 
other varieties. Old cultures are in general more readily sterilized than 
those of recent growth, but pore-forming bacilli are better destroyed at an 
earlier period in their development ; an acid medium restrains the growth 
of many kinds of bacteria. All micro-organisms, when dry, are much 
more resistant to attempts at disinfection than when in a moist state. 
Elevated temperature in general favors the action of disinfectants ; what- 
ever be the disinfectant employed, it should be brought into contact with 
the germs to be destroyed at as high a temperature as possible. For the 
same germ, the resistance varies with its age and development, the degree 
of humidity, reaction of the culture medium, temperature and other con- 
ditions of environment. 

DISINFECTION BY PHYSICAL PROCESSES. 

Desiccation. All living micro-organisms are sooner or later atten- 
uated in their pathogenic activities, and are finally killed, by drying. 
With the non-sporulating species, and particularly certain of those pos- 
sessed of disease-producing powers, this effect is at times conspicuously 
manifest. With the spores of spore-forming bacteria, however, drying 
requires a much longer time to attenuate and a still longer time to kill 
them. Fortunately only a small proportion of the known disease-produc- 
ing bacteria form spores, so that desiccation, even such as occurs with the 
ordinary environment of pathogenic bacteria outside the body, is of much 
importance in preventing their development and ultimately in destroying 
their vitality. Thus the spirillum of Asiatic cholera, when dried, dies in 
from three hours to two days, according to the degree of desiccation ; the 
bacilli of typhoid fever, tuberculosis and diphtheria resist drying for a 
longer time but gradually lose their vitality. The influence of drying in 
checking the multiplication of bacteria for none of them develop in a dry 
state is of manifest importance in connection with the spontaneous elimi- 
nation of infective diseases. 

That the habitations and surroundings of the soldier should be kept in 
a state of dryness is clearly essential in the maintenance of health. This 
is particularly important in the case of troops under canvas, and especially 
so in camps of more or less permanency. Under such conditions the thor- 
ough dryness of the tent site, together with that of the bedding and cloth- 
ing, should be uniformly secured in the prevention or restriction of epi- 
demic outbreaks. The frequent hanging up of bedding and clothing in 
the open air, except during stormy weather, secures the desired dryness; 
and in addition the oxygen of the air exerts a destructive effect upon such 
micro-organisms as may be harbored on these articles, while the agitation 
to which they are subjected by a strong breeze not only mechanically dis- 
lodges and removes a considerable proportion of the adherent micro-organ- 
isms but also markedly interferes with the development of those of certain 
species. Melzer, Hanson and others have found that violent and long- 
continued shaking was quite fatal to several varieties of bacteria. 

Sunlight. A large proportion of the sporeless pathogenic bacteria are 



768 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

killed by the direct rays of the sun, as has already been mentioned in con- 
nection with the subjects of water and the sanitary administration of 
camps. In laboratory experiments this effect is very striking, many 
species being destroyed in the presence of sunlight and air in so short a 
time as one or two hours. Diffuse daylight, as noted in relation to the 
lighting of barracks, is also detrimental to pathogenic micro-organisms, 
though its action is much less energetic than is that of direct sunlight. 
Buchner has shown that the bacillus of typhoid fever is destroyed in from 
one and one-half to two hours by the direct solar rays, and in five hours 
by diffuse daylight. The diphtheria bacillus is destroyed by from one- 
half to one hour's exposure to direct sunlight; while Koch found that the 
tubercle bacillus is killed by the rays of the sun in from a few minutes to 
several hours, according to the thickness of the mass exposed. Esmarch 
endeavored to turn these laboratory results to the benefit of practical dis- 
infection ; but after a thorough series of experiments he concluded that the 
disinfecting power of sunlight was observed only upon directly exposed sur- 
faces, and here there were also inequalities in the results. The time required 
to obtain the best results was found to be somewhat long. As a result of 
his experiments he concluded that direct sunlight could not be uniformly 
relied upon to accomplish disinfection, but that exposure to the solar rays, 
particularly in connection with desiccation, nevertheless exerts an important 
influence in arresting the growth and activity of pathogenic bacteria. 

From these facts it is apparent that habitations and their contents, 
should be exposed as much as possible to the purifying influence of sun- 
light and fresh air. In the field, the looping up of the tent walls is of the 
first importance and should be carried out under orders on every fair day. 
All garments, blankets and bedding should be removed from the tent and 
suspended from one margin, not merely spread on the ground or on a tent 
roof. Wherever possible, clothes lines should be stretched in camps, run- 
ning north and south so as to give free access of the solar rays to both sur- 
faces, and clothes pins should be provided for fastening to these lines the 
articles to be exposed. The latter should not be placed sufficiently near 
each other to interfere with either the sunlight or air-currents of others. 
By this means the surfaces of articles, such as blankets, are efficiently 
sunned, desiccation by the solar heat and air-currents is secured and 
thorough agitation of the article is accomplished ; the latter not only dis- 
lodging adherent micro-organisms but favoring the permeation of the 
meshes of the fabric by fresh air, and thus carrying the inhibitory influ- 
ences of the latter below the directly exposed surfaces. Drying, sunning 
and shaking, however, cannot be relied upon for the disinfection of articles 
under all circumstances, and should not be used where positive results are 
to be secured. These agents, however, are possessed of undoubted value 
in inhibiting the growth of pathogenic micro-organisms and have a wide 
field of usefulness in connection with military sanitation. 

Incineration. For the destruction of infectious material, the 'most 
ready and certain method consists in the application of fire. The employ- 
ment of this agent, however, is obviously to be confined to such articles as 
possess little if any value ; since equally positive results may always be 
obtained by other methods, even if at the expense of a greater outlay of 
time and labor. For the disinfection of tuberculous sputum or the secretions 



DISINFECTION. 769 

of the sick, or for the sterilization of such worthless material of an organic 
nature as may have become permeated .by a morbific agent, the method 
of incineration should always be selected. Certain bulky articles, which 
are inexpensive and from their nature are with difficulty disinfected by 
ordinary methods, such as mattresses or pillows, are preferably to be burned. 
Whenever such action is taken, the employment of the stove or furnace is 
desirable ; if destruction by fire be carried out in the open air, due care 
should be taken that combustion is complete and that small unburned par- 
ticles carrying infectious matter are not scattered by the action of the 
wind. For thoroughness of incineration, saturation of the article with 
petroleum before ignition is advisable. 

Dry Heat. While the use of dry heat furnishes a possible method for 
the disinfection of small articles, it is one of such limited applicability, 
and in the absence of special apparatus its use is attended with such 
difficulty and uncertainty, that its employment as a matter of choice, un- 
der any circumstances, will rarely be justifiable. There is not an indica- 
tion in the general process of disinfection which cannot be more readily 
and conveniently met by other well-known methods ; while the length of 
time required for its execution, together with its destructive effect upon 
textile fabrics and similar articles, furnishes a standing argument against its 
employment. 

With regard to dry heat, Koch found that an exposure of three hours 
at a temperature of 117 C. would not destroy all bacteria; while with 
bulky articles the outside was frequently scorched even at a time when 
the interior did not present a sufficiently elevated temperature to accom- 
plish disinfection. Dry heat at 115 to 120 C. is not uniformly capable 
of destroying all micro-organisms, and exposure to a temperature of 140C. 
for three hours, as required for the accomplishment of general disinfection, 
can scarcely be carried out on textures without injury to them of a greater or 
less extent. Scorching occurs at 120 C. with woolen substances sooner 
than with those of cotton or linen the change of color being often accompa- 
nied by deterioration of the tensile strength of the fabric. Dry heat causes 
little or no shrinkage of woolens ; but, like moist heat, it results in the fixation 
of all stains of an albuminous nature. For disinfection by dry as well as 
by moist heat, the thorough penetration of the articles is necessary ; this be- 
ing greatly favored by the production of a partial vacuum. 

In the absence of special apparatus for disinfection by dry heat, an ordi- 
nary oven may be utilized ; but as the temperature of such an oven cannot 
be accurately controlled by the operator, the results obtained from its use 
will often be unsatisfactory. 

Moist Heat. All things considered, the best disinfectant is probably 
moist heat, since it is cheap, easily used and manipulated and is not liable 
to injure the great majority of articles to be Disinfected. No discussion, 
in the light of present knowledge of disinfection by steam or boiling, is 
here required to demonstrate the efficiency of these processes, for the fact 
may be considered definitely settled and universally accepted. 

Boiling. Immersion in boiling water, like incineration, affords a 
simple, ready and efficient method for the destruction of infectious mate- 
rial. Its applicability extends to all articles of a metallic or earthen na- 
ture as well as to linen and cotton fabrics but woolen or leather goods 



770 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

cannot be boiled without undergoing considerable injury. Koch showed 
that boiling for five minutes in an alkaline solution was sufficient to destroy 
all pathogenic micro-organisms and their spores, while all but the most 
resistive were destroyed in two minutes. The boiling of infected articles 
in a two per cent, solution of sodium carbonate for a short period will 
not only readily accomplish their disinfection but will so loosen particles of 
foreign matter as to render their subsequent washing much easier of accom- 
plishment. 

Streaming Steam. The use of streaming steam for purposes of disin- 
fection gives excellent results in practice, although in theory the manner of 
its employment, as usually carried out, is not without imperfections. Very 

positive advantages in the use of this 
method are to be found in the fact that 
the apparatus required, though special in 
character, is inexpensive and that the 
technique of its operation is of the sim- 
plest nature. While fulfilling an excel- 
lent purpose in the sterilization of small 
articles, the method is scarcely applicable 
to objects of considerable bulk and hence 
possesses only a limited value for pur- 
poses of general disinfection. 

Disinfection of bulky articles by the 
use of streaming steam requires a full hour 
for its accomplishment, while the same 
result may be attained in twenty minutes 
by the use of superheated steam. The 
period of disinfection should be reckoned 
from the time that steam begins to stream 
from the apparatus. Streaming steam 
has inferior powers of penetration; and 
larger articles, according to Laveran, when 
placed on the floor of the apparatus, will 
only with difficulty attain a temperature 
As heated air constantly tends to rise, and 
C. weighs only 62.2 per cent, as much 




FIG. 356. Arnold Sterilizer. 



of 100 C. in their interior, 
since a cubic foot of steam at 100 C 
as the same volume of air at 100 C., it is evident that the temperature 
throughout the sterilizer will not be uniform and that the lower strata of 
air will be both cooler and less saturated with moisture than the upper 
layers. It is well, therefore, that the objects to be disinfected should be 
disposed in such a manner as to favor their permeation, and that the dis- 
infecting process should be continued sufficiently long to ensure the com- 
plete success of the operation even under less favorable conditions. In an 
emergency, a simple but efficient apparatus for disinfection by the use of 
streaming steam may readily be improvised. 

Of the various types of small sterilizers depending upon the use of free 
flowing steam for their efficiency, the Arnold sterilizer, as issued for use in the 
United States army, probably best meets all indications. In this sterilizer, 
water is poured into the pan or reservoir, whence it passes slowly through 
small openings into the shallow generator, becomes converted into steam 



DISINFECTION. 



771 



and rises through the tube in the center to the sterilizing chamber above. 
Here it accumulates at a temperature of 100 C. ; the excess of steam es- 
caping about the cover to become imprisoned under the hood and thus form 
a steam jacket around the sterilizing chamber. As the steam is forced 
down from above and meets the air it is condensed and returns as water to 
the reservoir. The sterilizer is best used on an ordinary stove, but no great 
amount of heat is required. The hood and lid should be removed as soon as 
the heat is diverted, to prevent condensation of the accumulated steam and 
the wetting of the articles which have been sterilized. 

Superheated Steam. Disinfection by steam under pressure appears 
to have attained a state of practical perfection. Koch found that super- 
heated steam at a temperature of 110 C. destroyed anthrax spores in ten 
minutes; and this temperature, with an exposure of twenty minutes to an 
atmosphere saturated with watery vapor, may be confidently relied upon 
to accomplish the disinfection of any ordinary material or articles. In 
the British army an exposure for one hour to a temperature of 105 C. is 
officially required. The latent heat in steam accounts in a large measure 
for its greater germicidal efficiency as compared with hot air. As ex- 
pressed by Notter and Firth, " to convert a certain amount of water at 
212 F. into steam at -212 F. requires nearly one thousand times as much 
heat as it does to raise the same amount of water one degree, from 211 F. 
to 212 F. Conversely, a corresponding amount of heat is liberated with 
the condensation of steam at 212 F. into water at the same temperature. 
When an object is heated by being placed in hot, dry air, not only is no 
latent heat yielded up to it by the air but, on the other hand, before the 
object can attain the temperature of 212 F. any water which it may con- 
tain must be evaporated ; in this evaporation heat passes into the latent 
form and the attainment of the desired temperature is thus delayed." 

The production of a partial vacuum prior to steam sterilization is of 
great assistance in the carrying out of the process, since air is a poor con- 
ductor of heat and its removal permits the entrance of the steam to every 
portion of the articles to be disinfected. After a certain amount of steam has 
passed into the chamber, the air of the latter should again be exhausted 
before the actual disinfection. Superheated steam penetrates objects to 
be disinfected much better than free flowing steam. An internal tempera- 
ture of 100 C. in bulky articles is readily reached under high pressure, 
even as small an elevation as one-twentieth of an atmosphere materially 
assisting in disinfection. The rapidity of the process depends in a large 
degree upon the internal pressure and hence the temperature; since 
it is important to know the internal temperature corresponding to the 
manometric readings of the high-pressure apparatus, the following table 
will be of value. 

Pressure in Tpmnpmtiirm. 

atmospheres. Temperatures. 

1.66.. . 115C. 



easure in 
loepheres. 

1.00 


Temperatures. 
100. 0C. 


1 02 


100.6 


1 04 


101 


1.07 


102 


1.11 


103 


1 14 


104 


1 20 


. . .105 


1 28 


107 


1.40 . . 


. 110 



1.96. 
2.30. 
2.67. 
8.10. 
8.57. 
4.10. 
4.70. 



130 
125 
180 
135 
140 
145 
150 



772 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Moist heat causes considerable shrinkage in all woolen fabrics ; as well 
as a loss, through removal of the natural grease of the wool, of that elas- 
ticity and softness upon which its warmth to a considerable degree de- 
pends. Kratschner and Schafer found that woolen material, disinfected 
bv steam under high pressure, underwent a slow chemical alteration which 
manifested itself in the liberation of fatty acids, sulphur and ammonia and 
in a certain diminution of tensile strength. Cotton and linen will bear 
exposure to moist heat at 118 C. for a sufficient time to effect disinfec- 
tion without deterioration, but Levison found that after as many as ten 
sterilizations by steam the tensile strength of linen fabrics was consider- 
ably impaired. For all practical purposes, however, disinfection by super- 
heated steam may be considered to have but little injurious effect upon 
fabrics; since the process must always be looked upon as unusual and 
rarely to be required in the military service, except in the case of hospital 
property, in more than a single instance for the same article. Wetting 
of woolen goods causes shrinkage and often some deterioration of color in 
articles of inferior quality. It is therefore desirable that objects placed in 
the steam chamber should be heated before the admission of the vapor, 
since, if this precaution be not taken, the resulting condensation of a large 
amount of steam will render them extremely damp. To avoid staining 
with rust, such articles as are undergoing disinfection by steam should not 
be allowed to come in contact with iron. Spots of blood, faeces or pus 
should be removed prior to disinfection by the use of moist heat, since 
otherwise they become indelible through coagulation of their albumen. 
Such spots may be removed by previous soaking in cold water, to which a 
little soda has been added ; or they may be treated with a solution of potas- 
sium permanganate, the resulting rose color being subsequently discharged 
by the addition of oxalic acid. 

An excellent type of the high-pressure steam disinfecting apparatus is 
the Kinyoun-Francis model, as adopted for use in the work of the United 
States Marine-Hospital service. In this apparatus the steam chamber ia 
constructed of an inner and outer steel shell, forming a steam jacket. The 
doors are fitted with steam-tight gaskets and are handled by convenient 
cranes ; being drawn tight by eye-bolts, swinging in and out of slots in the 
door frames. The chambers are rectangular in shape, to give the most 
effective space during exposure with the greatest economy of steam and 
to enable the cars to be readily handled in and out. The jacket gives 
perfect circulation, prevents too rapid condensation and thoroughly dries 
the goods exposed. This jacket is filled with steam during the entire 
operation, making the chamber a drying oven, so that the articles to be 
disinfected are brought to a high temperature before the admission of steam 
to the inner chamber and are thoroughly dried after the steam has been 
exhausted. To facilitate the penetration of the material to be disinfected, 
a vacuum is produced prior to the admission of steam to the inner cham- 
ber ; the system of piping being so arranged as to give thorough control of 
the circulation. Steam may not only be admitted at the top or bottom 
at will, but may also be admitted at either end or on top and be dis- 
charged at the opposite end on the bottom, or vice versa; so that cross- 
currents are obtained and the steam handled in any manner suited to 
obtain the best results from the articles exposed. The chamber is pro- 



DISINFECTION. 



773 



vided with a galvanized hood, to prevent the steam from impinging 
directly upon the clothing; thermometers, to register the temperature; 
gauges, to indicate both vacuum and steam pressure, and safety-valve, to 
prevent over-pressure in the chamber ; the amount of pressure being regu- 
lated by a reducing-valve in the steam-pipe from the boiler. For conven- 
ience of handling the goods, cars of light wrought-iron construction are 
provided, with removable trays, covered with galvanized screens and having 
bronze hooks at the top; thus permitting the articles to be laid out upon 
the trays or to be hung upon the hooks. The doors at both ends of the 
chamber allow the cars to be brought in at one end and removed at the 




FIG. 357. Klnyoun-Francls steam DiniufecUiiK Chamber. 

other, thus securing complete isolation of the infected and disinfected 
articles. The cars, upon being unloaded, are returned to the working end 
of the chamber by means of transfer tables. 

The working of such a sterilizing apparatus may be described as fol- 
lows : The steam is generated in the boiler at high pressure, and by means 
of a reducing-valve is led to the chamber at the reduced pressure desired 
and allowed to circulate in the jacket. When the jacket is properly 
heated, the infected goods are loaded upon the car; it is then pushed into 
the chamber, the door closed and made steam-tight by fastening the bolts 
with a quick -action ratchet wrench, which draws the door tightly against 
the rubber gasket in the door frame. In a few minutes the temperature 
in the chamber will rise, and the vacuum apparatus is started until the 
gauge indicates about 15 inches vacuum. When the thermometer indi- 
cates the temperature of the incoming steam, if 10 pounds is used, say, 
115 C., the pipes into the inner chamber are opened slightly at first, giv- 
ing whatever direction of circulation is desired, and when the pressure has 
risen, the steam-pipes are closed and the vacuum pump brought into action 
until the vacuum gauge shows 7 inches. The vacuum pump is then shut 
off and the steam pipes are opened ; the steam being allowed to circulate 
through the chamber at 3 to 5 pounds pressure and this circulation being 
maintained for the period of the exposure, when the by-pass val\v is 



774 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

opened wide to exhaust the steam. It can then be closed, and the air 
pump once more started to eliminate the dampness; then the door on the 
opposite end is opened and the car removed and unloaded. 

The steam chamber and disinfecting plant should be located in an 
outbuilding, well provided with doors and windows and divided by a 
tight partition. The apparatus itself should be so placed that its opera- 
tion should be easy, while there should be no risk of a re-infection of 
sterilized articles through contact with non-disinfected material in removal 
from the steam chamber after completion of the operation. From this 
danger such types of apparatus as are furnished with only one door are not 
free ; to render such secondary contamination impossible, not only should 
the 'apparatus have two doors for entrance and removal respectively, but 
the room in which the infected articles are received should have no com- 
munication except through the open air with the room in which the steri- 
lized articles are removed from the disinfecting chamber. It is scarcely 




Fio. 368. Ground-Plan Arrangement for Quarantine or Large Disinfecting Station. 

necessary to say that the two doors of the steam-chamber should never be 
opened simultaneously. There should, of course, be two sets of attendants 
to handle the soiled and disinfected articles respectively. 

A special movable apparatus for disinfection by steam under pressure 
might, with advantage, be supplied to each military department or to each 
army corps, as is the case in several European armies. This disinfector, 
while nominally attached to some large field hospital or military post, 
could be temporarily placed at the disposal of such organization as might 
require its services and would undoubtedly serve an excellent purpose, 
particularly in relation to troops in the field or during time of epidemic. 
The Kinyoun-Francis wheeled disinfecting apparatus was devised as a 
result of the problems presented in various epidemics of yellow fever in 
our southern cities. The apparatus consists of a beam frame mounted 
upon running gear, carrying the chamber, pump, coal and water tank and 
the locker-box seat. The chamber is composed of double steel shells, with 
a door at one end, handled by a crane attached to the chamber itself, and 
has a removable track, with a stand adjustable for the irregularities of the 
roadway, with a galvanized car of sufficient size to take single or double 
mattresses. The piping is so arranged as to give thorough control of the 
steam circulation, and has a reducing-valve, thermometer, vacuum and 
pressure-gauge and safety-valve. The boiler and pump are easy of access 
for working and are arranged compactly. In its method of operation the 



DISINFECTION. 



775 



portable steam-disinfecting apparatus closely resembles that of the fixed 
disinfecting plant, made by the same company, as just described. 

Plants for disinfection by steam under pressure have the disadvantage 
of implying a considerable original outlay, as well as of requiring the ser- 
vices of a specially instructed mechanic for their manipulation. They fur- 




FIG. 359. Kinyoun-Francls Steam Disinfecting Wagon. 

nish, however, the best method of accomplishing the disinfection of cloth- 
ing, bedding and similar articles, and when viewed from the standpoint of 
the sanitarian, their increased cost and expense of maintenance are scarcely 
worthy of consideration where large hospitals, camps or posts are con- 
cerned. It is probable, also, that attendants of sufficient ability to take 
charge of such disinfecting plants would readily be found among the enlisted 
strength of the army and so diminish the expense of operation. 



CHEMICAL DISINFECTANTS. 

The chemical substances used for purposes of disinfection are, for all 
practical purposes, limited to such as can be employed either in gaseous 
state or in aqueous solution ; since when existing in dry solid form they 
can scarcely be brought into that intimate relation with all portions of an 
object which is required for its disinfection. 

The essentials of a useful and trustworthy chemical disinfectant, as 
enumerated by Abbott, are : It must be a germicide having the property 
of destroying bacteria and their spores. It should be so constituted that 
its germicidal properties are not destroyed by the extraneous matters in 
which the infective organisms that are to be killed are located. With 
ordinary care, it should not be directly poisonous to those who use it. It 
should, if possible, be without disagreeable odor, should be cheap in 
price, easy to manipulate, and for particular purposes should not cause 
permanent stains or be destructive to the skin, fabrics or other articles 
to which it is to be applied. 

In many cases it is not possible to explain the manner in which disin- 



776 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

fection is accomplished by chemical agents, any more than to say that the 
microbes are poisoned by the disinfectant; though in particular instances 
this is accomplished by a union between the disinfectant and the proto- 
plasm of the bacteria ; in others there seems to be a coagulation of the 
albuminoid constituents of the bacteria, while in others disinfection is ac- 
complished through the disintegrating influence that the disinfectant has 
upon the bacteria. 

While a large number of chemical substances are known to possess 
germicidal properties in greater or less degree, and hence may be variously 
employed in civil life for purposes of disinfection, the scope of this volume 
will necessarily preclude the discussion of such as are not officially issued 
for use in the military establishment of the United States. 

Bichloride of Mercury. HgCL,. Bichloride of mercury, known also 
as mercuric chloride or corrosive sublimate, is soluble in 3 parts, by 
weight, of boiling water or in 16 parts of cold water. It is also readily 
soluble in alcohol. An aqueous solution of ammonium chloride will take 
up corrosive sublimate more readily than will water alone, a soluble double 
chloride (sal alembroth) being formed. This solution with ammonium 
chloride is very efficacious in the extermination of insect vermin, and is 
much employed for that purpose. 

In its activity as a germicide, corrosive sublimate undoubtedly stands 
at the head of all chemical substances; a solution of 1-1000 strength 
promptly destroying bacteria together with their spores, a proportion of 
1-10,000 being slightly germicidal and even a strength of 1-40,000 mark- 
edly restraining the development of micro-organisms. Its field of applica- 
bility is somewhat limited, however, by the fact that it rapidly attacks and 
corrodes metals, and that it unites with albumen in the formation of an in- 
soluble albuminate possessed of practically no germicidal value. Modifica- 
tion of the first property being impracticable, all metallic objects should be 
promptly removed from its possible sphere of influence. Coagulation of 
albumen, however, may be largely prevented by the addition of a small pro- 
portion of acetic or tartaric acid to the sublimate solution. Wherever contact 
with albuminous material is liable to occur, the precaution of adding one 
of the above organic acids must be carefully observed, since, in the use of 
all chemical disinfectants which precipitate albumen, it must be understood 
that a part, or even the whole, of the active agent may be neutralized by 
contact with the albuminous material with which pathogenic bacteria are 
usually associated ; while, at the same time, through the envelopment of 
these bacteria in an insoluble covering, a mechanical protection against 
their destruction is created. 

Upon long standing, and particularly upon prolonged exposure to air 
and sunlight, corrosive sublimate in solution has a tendency to undergo 
reduction to mercurous chloride or calomel a substance of no practical 
efficiency for purposes of disinfection. It is therefore advisable to add to 
its solution about 0.2 per cent, of hydrochloric acid; thus not only increas- 
ing the stability of the solution, but also increasing its destructive proper- 
ties toward such micro-organisms as are unfavorably affected by an acid 
medium. According to Vignon , ordinary water ultimately causes the decom- 
l*>sition of the bichloride of mercury through the mineral and organic matter 
which it contains ; hence such solutions should be freshly prepared and 



DISINFECTION. 777 

rapidly utilized. In the presence of considerable amounts of calcium and 
magnesium salts this reduction is rapid and may even be complete, en- 
tirely destroying the value of the solution as a disinfectant. The use of 
hard waters in connection with mercuric chloride should, therefore, be 
carefully avoided, even though a previous boiling may remove a certain 
portion of the salts from the water it is desired to utilize. Distilled water 
should be employed for solutions wherever practicable, but in its absence 
rain-water will give satisfactory results. In the lack of water suitable for 
use with the mercury salt, reliance should be placed upon other disinfec- 
tants rather than in the employment of solutions of this substance which 
are necessarily of unknown strength and hence of doubtful efficiency. 

Corrosive sublimate solution is extremely poisonous and at the same 
time possesses neither characteristic appearance nor odor ; hence it is always 
well, in diminishing the dangers of its use, to add a sufficient amount of 
permanganate of potash or methylene blue to impart a noticeable color- 
ation to the solution. 

Mercuric chloride is rapidly removed from its solution by clothing. 
According to Kubla, a small piece of cloth soaked in 250 c.c. of a 1-1000 
solution deprived the latter of its mercury in a few minutes. Similar re- 
sults have been obtained by Sclavo and Mannelli, who found also that 
textures of animal nature removed corrosive sublimate from its solution 
much more readily and completely than cloths of vegetable origin. It is 
therefore advisable, in the disinfection of clothing by bichloride of mer- 
cury, to employ solutions of considerable strength ; and, where articles are 
successively being treated by this agent, the renewal of the solution should 
be frequently practised. 

For all the purposes of disinfection to which it can be applied, the acid 
solution of bichloride of mercury, having a strength of 1-1000, must be 
regarded as standard. 

Carbolic Acid. C e H 5 OH. Carbolic acid or phenol is manufactured 
from that part of the heavy oil of coal tar which boils between 150 C. 
and 200 C. It is somewhat heavier than water, and crystallizes in long 
needles, having a solubility in cold water of about 6.5 per cent. or about 
three times that of "Tricresol." It becomes pink or brown on long stand- 
ing, from the presence of some impurity. 

For many years well known and widely employed as a germicide, 
carbolic acid has of late been largely displaced for purposes of disinfection 
by various other chemical substances of equal if not greater germicidal 
powers, and possessing in less degree the several properties which render 
the use of carbolic acid always unpleasant, somewhat dangerous and 
slightly uncertain. 

The disinfectant properties of carbolic acid are so well recognized at 
the present day that any discussion thereon would seem to be superfluous. 
It is an active germicide; less so than was at one time supposed, but 
still sufficiently potent to satisfy the requirements of actual practice. A 
great disadvantage to its use in large quantities is the strong, disagreeable 
and lasting odor which accompanies its application. 

For purposes of disinfection, carbolic acid is used in solutions of three to 
five per cent, strength by weight, care being taken to secure its solution by 
agitation and by the use of warm water. When employed in such a 



778 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

strength, it has a wide range of applicability and gives generally satisfac- 
tory results in the disinfection of excreta, articles of clothing, objects of 
wood, leather or metal and for the disinfection of the walls and floors of 
habitations. A practical disadvantage in its use is its comparatively high 
price, even when the crude acid is employed, as compared with that of 
some other germicidal substances. In order to obtain its germicidal action, 
its solution must be thoroughly mixed with the matters to be disinfected 
so that it comes in intimate contact with them. 

Crude carbolic acid and concentrated sulphuric acid, when mixed in 
equal parts, form a compound readily soluble in water and possessing 
germicidal properties superior to those of pure carbolic acid alone ; the em- 
ployment of the crude acid for this purpose is preferable to that of the re- 
tined substance. Obviously the uses to which this compound can be put 
are more restricted than those of carbolic acid alone. 

Tricresol. The name " Tricresol " is a trade designation, applied for 
commercial purposes to a mixture of ortho-, meta- and paracresol. This 
cresol group forms the next higher homologue to phenol ; one atom of hydro- 
gen in the latter being replaced by the methyl radical CH 3 . The group is 
metameric with benzyl alcohol. Ortho- and paracresol are crystalline 
bodies having a low melting-point, while metacresol is a thick, colorless 
fluid. " Tricresol " is manufactured from coal tar, and is a white liquid 
having a specific gravity of about 1.045, possessing a strong pungent odor 
and a solubility in cold water of about 2.55 per cent. 

According to Reed, a one per cent, solution of "Tricresol " will infal- 
libly destroy the pus-producing micro-organisms in half a minute ; a pro- 
portion of 1-800 being sufficient to restrain development. The presence 
of albuminous matter in fluids to be disinfected does not interfere to any 
serious extent with its prompt and certain germicidal action ; an exposure 
of one and one-half to two minutes to a strength of one per cent, sufficing 
for sterilization. A proportion of one per cent, appears to be adequate for 
all purposes, and in comparing carbolic acid and " Tricresol " it would ap- 
pear that the latter, bulk for bulk, is about three times as powerful a dis- 
infectant. It should not be forgotten that, in equal quantity, " Tricresol " 
possesses toxic properties as great as those of carbolic acid. 

Lime. CaO. Lime, quicklime and calcium oxide are synonymous 
terms. The substance occurs in whitish, amorphous masses ; odorless, alka- 
line and caustic. It is produced by heating the carbonate of calcium and 
so reducing it to the oxide. Calcium oxide combines with about one-third 
its weight of water, with the evolution of considerable heat and an in- 
crease of bulk, in the production of powdered calcium hydrate or water- 
slaked lime. If a larger quantity of water be employed, the so-called 
" milk of lime " results, a solution temporarily holding an indefinite excess 
in suspension. When treated with 700 parts of cold water the hydrate 
is wholly dissolved to a clear solution, which is "lime-water." If exposed 
to the atmosphere, quicklime is rapidly acted upon by the carbonic .acid 
and moisture of the air, and, when completely air-slaked, is decomposed 
into a mixture usually containing something over fifty per cent, of calcium 
carbonate and something less than fifty per cent, of calcium hydrate, ac- 
ding to the amount of moisture present in the atmosphere. As the for- 
mer substance is of no utility for purposes of disinfection, the necessity for 



DISINFECTION. 779 

insistence upon the employment of freshly-burned lime, not more than 
four or five days from the kiln, water-slaked, becomes evident. If freshly 
burned lime cannot for any reason be supplied at the point where disinfec- 
tion is required, its shipment should be made in small lots, well packed to 
exclude air and moisture. 

Since 1890 the use of lime as a disinfectant has been officially sanc- 
tioned in the armies of France, Germany and Great Britain. The value 
of this substance as a disinfectant depends upon its caustic alkalinity. It 
may be used in a dry state as well as after slaking ; but under the former 
condition a much greater quantity is required and the results are not usu- 
ally as satisfactory. Being extremely cheap and at the same time not a 
powerful germicide, it should always be added to the infectious matter in 
large excess or until the mixture is strongly alkaline. Milk of lime, aa 
officially prescribed for use in the army of the United States, is to be 
prepared by the addition of one part, by weight, of the freshly hydrated 
limp, to eight parts of water. In its application to quantities of faecal 
matter the milk of lime is to be employed in the proportion of five per 
cent, by bulk ; with a daily addition equal to ten per cent., by bulk, of the 
estimated increment of faeces. According to this method of employment, 
to each 95 parts of faeces there is added .62 part of water-slaked lime or 
1 part in 153. This 'would seem to be an extremely small proportion for 
a substance of no very powerful germicidal powers, particularly in the 
absence of thorough mixing with the infectious material or with the 
deterioration of the lime through atmospheric influences, which is so liable 
to occur. In view of the extreme cheapness of quick -lime, and to avoid 
any possible failure in the attainment of disinfection, it will do no harm to 
eiT upon the side of safety and considerably to increase the strength of the 
milk of lime as prescribed above. Most modern authorities recommend 
that milk of lime be made by adding one part of lime to four parts of 
water. The quantity of lime used should, of course, always bear a definite 
ratio to the bulk of the infectious material to be disinfected. A perfunc- 
tory sprinkling of infectious matter with weak milk of lime, as is so often 
done, is a procedure worse than useless since it accomplishes little or 
nothing in the way of disinfection and at the same time engenders a feel- 
ing of false security. Quicklime has but a slight effect in the destruction 
of odors and requires some little time for the accomplishment of disinfec- 
tion, often several hours. Where milk of lime is used for the disinfection 
of faeces, it should not be thrown into a water-closet without dilution and 
the flushing of the trap, since otherwise the thick mass may accumulate 
and stop the pipes. 

Whitewash is a thickened mixture of quicklime and water to which, 
to increase its cohesive powers, sizing is sometimes added. Wherever 
lime is employed for purposes of disinfection, it should be freshly burned 
and its use in whitewash is no exception to this rule. Too often a white- 
wash is composed chiefly of calcium carbonate, which possesses no germi- 
cidal properties whatever. Giaxa found that ordinary whitewashing with 
hydrated lime destroyed all micro-organisms except the spores of anthrax 
and the bacillus of tuberculosis. Lapasset obtained excellent results, in 
disinfection by whitewashing, by mixing five parts of water with two parts 
of quicklime and then adding an equal quantity of boiling water contain- 



780 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ing five per cent, of sizing. To increase the germicidal action of ordinary 
whitewash, a small proportion of chlorinated lime is sometimes added in 
the preparation of the former. Prior to the application of whitewash to a 
surface, all loosely adherent dirt or lime should be removed by scraping ; 
the actual removal of a large proportion of the bacterial life being preferable 
to its burial under a coating of whitewash. This scraping, however, should 
be carefully done and every precaution taken not to promote, by this very 
action, the dissemination of the micro-organisms throughout the habitation. 

Chlorinated Lime. CaCl.OCl. Chlorinated lime or bleaching 
powder, popularly miscalled "chloride of lime," is a white powder of pecul- 
iar chemical composition and somewhat unstable nature, resulting from 
the exposure of moist calcium hydroxide (water-slaked lime) to nascent 
chlorine gas about 56 per cent., by weight, of the latter substance being 
absorbed. 

Chlorinated lime is an excellent desiccant and a powerful deodorant, 
vigorously attacking and decomposing hydrogen sulphide and volatile 
aminoniacal compounds. As a disinfectant, its valuable properties have 
been established by the researches of Sternberg and others. Its efficiency 
as a germicide depends upon its available chlorine, of which, as prescribed 
by the United States Pharmacopoeia, at least 25 per cent., by weight, 
must be present. 

It undergoes decomposition on exposure to the air, through liberation 
of its chlorine by the carbon dioxide of the atmosphere, and hence should 
be stored in closed vessels in a cool and dry place. In its slow decom- 
position, chlorinated lime is liable to lose a small proportion of its oxygen 
in the production of true chloride of lime (CaCl,) which, by its affinity 
for moisture, lenders the bleaching powder deliquescent. Chlorine, when 
slowly evolved from bleaching powder, unites with the carbon dioxide of 
the atmosphere in the formation of hypochlorous acid an even more 
powerful disinfectant than chlorine itself. 

As a disinfectant, chlorinated lime may be directly applied in the dry 
state. Equally as good results, however, are obtained by its use in strong 
watery solution and the method is much more economical. The addition 
of water to chlorinated lime is generally admitted to yield a mixture of 
calcium hypochlorite (CaClO,), calcium chloride (CaCl 2 ) and some cal- 
cium hydrate (CaOH,); of which latter substance a large quantity re- 
mains as an undissolved residue. The efficiency of this solution as a 
disinfectant depends chiefly upon the presence of the calcium hypochlorite, 
which is readily decomposed, even by carbonic acid, with the liberation of 
hypochlorous acid. This acid itself, when exposed to light, is decomposed 
into chloric acid and free chlorine. For use in the disinfection of rooms, 
Chamberland and Fernbach advise the preparation of a solution of chlori- 
nated lime made by covering one part of the bleaching powder with an 
equal amount of water. After standing an hour the mixture is filtered 
and a greenish-yellow liquid obtained; one part of this solution being 
ided to ten times its volume of water for application to the surface to be 
ismfected. As a result of their investigations, it is claimed that this weak 
solution is fully as efficacious for purposes of disinfection as a stronger one. 
nble the solution should be applied hot, and the room which is being 
sinfected should also have its temperature elevated. A solution of good 



DISINFECTION. 781 

chlorinated lime in water in the strength of one-half to one per cent, by 
weight has been shown to disinfect typhoid and cholera stools in ten min- 
utes, while a one per cent, solution will destroy the anthrax bacillus in two 
hours. Thorough mixing of the chlorinated lime solution with the mate- 
rial to be disinfected is essential. Its use is without danger to the operator 
and it leaves no poisonous residuum in the room disinfected. In the 
United States army, a four per cent, strength of chlorinated lime in solu- 
tion is officially prescribed for use in the disinfection of the excreta of the 
sick ; it being specifically stated that the chlorinated lime so used should 
be of good quality and not have undergone deterioration. The disagree- 
able odor resulting from the use of chlorinated lime in rooms may be re- 
moved by hanging about cloths soaked in strong soda solution after disin- 
fection is complete. 

The Hypochlorites. The employment, for the purpose of disinfec- 
tion, of calcium hypochlorite CaClO, has already been noticed in 
connection with the use of chlorinated lime in watery solution. La- 
barraque's solution, or a solution of sodium hypochlorite NaCIO ap- 
pears to be somewhat less actively energetic than the solution of calcium 
hypochlorite, and as it is also more costly the employment of the latter is 
preferable. Its gerinicidal properties of course depend upon the amount of 
chlorine available on the decomposition of the sodium salt. Labarraque's 
solution may contain as much as six per cent., by weight, of chlorine, and the 
standard of the United States Pharmacopoeia requires that it shall contain 
no less than 2.6 per cent. For purposes of disinfection one part of the solu- 
tion is usually added to four parts of water but in practice sodium hypo- 
chlorite is employed almost exclusively for the disinfection of the person. 

In this connection the disinfectant solution prepared from sea-water 
may be noted ; the chlorides normally present being converted into the 
hypochlorites by electrolysis. A plant for the production of this disinfec- 
tant solution, under the trade name of "Electrozone," was put in practical 
operation in the municipal sanitation in Havana while under control of 
the United States military authorities. It was claimed that the sea-water 
so treated had an average chlorine strength of 0.16 per cent. The solution 
was distributed in wagons for use in disinfecting sewers, street sprinkling 
and household disinfection. It was shown by Eeed, however, that the 
chlorine strength claimed was not obtained in practice, and in observa- 
tions covering a period of ten days the available chlorine in the electro- 
lyzed sea- water varied from a maximum of 0.142 per cent, to 0.021 per 
cent. A chlorine strength of less than 0.15 per cent, cannot be relied upon 
for prompt disinfection, and a solution containing a minimum of 0.25 per 
cent, is desirable. Heed therefore concluded that the " Electrozone " as 
used in Havana did not possess sufficient strength for efficient and reliable 
disinfection. His experiments showed that a solution of sodium hypo- 
chlorite of equal chlorine percentage is just as effective in germicidal action 
as electrozone, and the same is true of chlorinated lime to which enough of 
hydrochloric acid has been added to free the whole of the chlorine. Com- 
paring the relative cost of production, Eeed found that ordinary chlori- 
nated lime solution of a definite and constant disinfectant value could be 
supplied much cheaper than " Electrozone, " which had no particular stand- 
ard of strength. 



782 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Ferrous Sulphate. FeSO 4 . Ferrous sulphate, also called sulphate 
of iron or copperas, occurs in green, efflorescent crystals, readily soluble in 
twice their weight of cold water. On account of its inferior germicidal 
powers as well as its property of staining fabrics, the employment of sul- 
phate of iron is practically limited to its application to fajcal matter, for 
which purposes its marked capacity for the destruction of bad odors ren- 
ders it particularly suitable. It is extremely cheap, easy of application 
and, unlike other substances, does not impair the fertilizing value of the 
matter to which it may be applied. The properties of ferrous sulphate which 
render it useful for purposes of disinfection depend upon its tendency to 
appropriate oxygen and so become converted into the ferric sulphate. 
These qualities, however, must be considered as antiseptic rather than 
disinfectant, since, according to Laveran, the addition of even five or six per 
cent, of the salt to faecal matter is unable uniformly to effect the steriliza- 
tion of the latter. 

Sulphate of iron is used only in solution ; the amount of the iron salt 
to be daily employed depending upon the estimated increment of the fresh 
fecal matter rather than upon any particular strength of the solution. 
Should the contents of the latrine be semi-fluid, the solution of sulphate of 
iron may with advantage be made up with but a small proportion of water, 
since for efficiency a high proportion of ferrous sulphate should be brought 
into direct contact with the excreta. In practice, a proportion of five parts 
of the iron salt in each hundred of the total contents of the latrine vault 
should be considered as essential to efficiency. In the French army, fer- 
rous sulphate is much used for the disinfection of latrines in a ten per 
cent, solution. It is officially laid down that at least 250 c.c. of such a 
solution should be used per day for each person using the latrine. 

Chemical Disinfection by the Use of Sprays. Various types of ap- 
paratus for the projection of disinfectant solutions, in a finely divided spray, 
have been largely employed in the disinfection of buildings; more so in 
Europe than in this country. All are much alike in structural detail and 
in results obtained. Late models are lined with ebonite or hard rubber, to 
permit the use of corrosive sublimate solutions without inducing the dete- 
rioration of the apparatus, and are sometimes mounted on wheels so as to 
allow of their more ready transfer from place to place. The nozzle of the 
apparatus is not of the ordinary " rose " form, but is constructed on the 
same principle as in the small hand atomizer; the fluid being aspirated 
into and projected by a strong current of compressed air. For the use of 
these sprays two men are required, one to direct the jet of spray and the 
other to work the pump. The spray apparatus delivers the disinfectant 
solution with considerable force and in the form of a fine, almost invisible 
mist. The walls are not sluiced down, but the extremely minute globules 
are intended to remain adherent to the wall without coalescing into large 
drops. Even with the fine division of the disinfectant spray it is, how- 
ever, difficult to obtain a general microscopical moistening, and to secure 
the best results the nozzle must be held at the distance of only a 'few 
inches, not more than four or five, from the surface to be disinfected. 

To determine the completeness with which a surface is moistened at 
any distance, a simple and ready test consists in the projection of colored 
fluid from the spray apparatus against white paper, and the subsequent ex- 



DISINFECTION. 



7S3 



amination of the latter with the aid of the microscope. With the use of 
the spray a much smaller amount of disinfectant solution is naturally re- 
quired than if the walls are washed down, although the quantity varies 
largely according to the character of the surface treated. With the Geneste- 
Herscher apparatus a single quart of solution will moisten an oil-painted 
surface of sixty square yards; although for walls generally, most of which 
are porous and absorbent, aii average of about two quarts for each three 
square yards will be required. It is not possible satisfactorily to spray 
hot solutions, since heated liquids are rapidly cooled by the act of pro- 
jection itself. According to Laveran, the difference in temperature shown 





FIG. 360. Apparatus for Disinfecting Walls by the Use of the Spray, aa Used In the French Army. 

by a thermometer sprayed at the nozzle of the apparatus and again at the 
distance of one meter was 31 C. ; the thermometer in the last instance 
registering a temperature somewhat lower than that of the surrounding 
air. 

The use of the spray apparatus for wall and ceiling disinfection is a 
great economy of labor. With a hand-brush and solution, a workman can 
disinfect about sixty square yards of surface per hour; while with an ato- 
mizer from ninety to two hundred square yards, according to the height, 
conformation and porosity of the wall, can be thoroughly sprayed in the 
same time. On plastered or calcimined walls most bacteria are rather 
resistant to the action of the disinfectant much more so than on painted 
walls. On papered surfaces the results are frequently unsatisfactory. 

After spraying with a solution of mercuric chloride of 1-1,000 strength, 
Esmarch noted a great diminution in the number of the germs present but 
rarely a complete sterilization, the spraying being continued until large 
drops of the solution collected on the wall. As a result of extensive experi- 
ment he concluded that the use of the spray was followed by too uncertain 
results to render its employment of practical utility and gave inferior results 
to the method of disinfection by rubbing down the walls with stale bread. 
The use of 1-1,000 bichloride solution as a spray gave Laveran no very 
gratifying results, and even in the strength of two and four parts per thou- 



784 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

sand the results were not always positive ; the bacillus of anthrax always 
proving resistant and other common pathogenic micro-organisms frequently 
being undestroyed. It is well to note, however, that Laveran removed the 
corrosive sublimate at once after spraying so as to avoid its inhibitory ac- 
tion in cultures subsequently made, and it can be readily understood that a 
more prolonged exposure in situ might have resulted in the actual destruc- 
tion instead of the inhibition of the micro-organism. Opposed to the 
above are the favorable results obtained by Guttman and others in the use of 
the spray with strong acid corrosive sublimate solution; a solution con- 
taining three parts of bichloride and live parts of hydrochloric acid per thou- 
sand being recommended. As a whole, the results obtained with the spray 
apparatus appear to depend upon the distance at which the operation is car- 
ried out, the duration of the spraying, the nature of the material in which 
the microbes may be embedded, the amount of fluid projected and to a 
large extent upon the character of the wall. It appears to be amply de- 
monstrated that with the use of a strong germicidal solution, sprayed from 
a short distance for a considerable period, reliable results may be antici- 
pated. 

For sluicing down the walls, in the absence of any special apparatus, 
the use of the ordinary cheap spray-pump, such as is used for spraying 
flowers or washing carriages, will answer all purposes, provided no solution 
destructive to the metal, such as bichloride of mercury, be employed. 
Such a pump is cheap, light and small and can be worked by one man. 

Formaldehyde in watery solution is now much used in the form of a 
spray for the disinfection of small articles, it appearing to give more cer- 
tainly positive results than follow the use of other germicidal solutions by 
atomuation. In its employment, due care must always be taken to use an 
amply effective strength, erring on the side of safety if at all. To leave 
no doubt as to the thoroughness of the results obtained, it 
is safe to say that no solution containing less than 2.5 per 
cent, of formaldehyde gas should be employed. A strong 
solution of formaldehyde appears to exert no more of a dele- 
terious effect upon the articles to be disinfected than do 
weaker solutions, and hence the only question concerns a 
possibly slightly increased financial outlay. Articles such 
as carpets, clothing or hangings may be satisfactorily disin- 
fected by spraying with a solution containing ten per cent, of 
" formalin " (four per cent, of formaldehyde gas) ; care being 
taken to continue the operation for some minutes and 
to make sure that the spray has reached all portions 
of the surface or fabric. As a matter of fact, it is 
FIO. a6i.-Formaiin spray usually extremely difficult to remain in the room 
chK U BoaKH b ^itt e until the completion of the operation of spraying; 
the operator finding it necessary frequently to with- 
draw temporarily to the purer air outside. Stalil found that clothing 
and similar articles could be made germ-free by spraying with solutions 
containing one-half to two per cent, of formaldehyde gas, provided they 
were sprayed some little time ten to twenty minutes and that the ap- 
plication of a solution containing as little as one part of formaldehyde in 
twenty-five thousand was sufficiently powerful to prevent bacterial develop- 




DISINFECTION. 786 

n it'M t. In employing formaldehyde solution as a spray, it is well to re- 
member that it hardens the unbroken skin, rendering it rough, whitish 
and anaesthetic while on abrasions it produces a burning, painful sensa- 
tion and ultimately induces superficial necrosis. Blankets and bedding, 
if used too soon after spraying with such a solution and without sufficient 
airing, may induce bronchitis and considerable irritation of the conjunctivas. 
The use of a spray of " formalin " (40 per cent, formaldehyde) for the dis- 
infection of all the surfaces and articles in a closed space, as well as the 
surfaces actually moistened, is now habitually employed in room disinfec- 
tion by the Chicago board of health ; the procedure depending for its gen- 
eral efficiency upon the formaldehyde gas evolved. For every thousand cubic 
feet of space in the room is suspended, by one edge, an ordinary bed sheet 
(two by two and one-half yards) from a line stretched across the middle of 
the room. Properly sprinkled, this will carry without dripping five ounces 
of " formalin " which is sufficient to disinfect one thousand cubic feet of 
space. As many sheets as may be necessary are used, hung at equal dis- 
tances apart. The ordinary, rather coarse cotton sheet should be employed 
in order to secure rapid volatilization. Care should be taken that the spray 
is very fine and that the edges of the drops do not touch each other, for if 
the sheet is actually wet the solution evaporates slowly and produces the 
solid paraform, instead of passing directly into the air as formaldehyde gas. 
The sprinkler used by the Chicago board of health is perforated by eight 
minute holes one-fourth of an inch apart and about one millimeter in di- 
ameter. The container will hold twenty-two ounces of formalin, sufficient 
for four sheets or enough to secure the disinfection of four thousand cubic 
feet of space. The results obtained by this process are very satisfactory ; 
and its simplicity, freedom from danger and lack of bulky or expensive ap- 
paratus render it especially adapted to the needs of the military service. 

GASEOUS DISINFECTANTS. 

The ideal disinfectant is a gas, prompt in its action and certain in its 
results, which, readily penetrating to all parts of a confined space, will 
permeate articles to be disinfected without deterioration of their qualities. 
Non-toxic to the higher forms of life, it should be capable of ready gener- 
ation, easy manipulation and absolute control. It should be a good deo- 
dorant, and if its possess an odor itself it should be one capable of rapid 
dissipation. 

A considerable number of gaseous substances have been at various 
times employed for purposes of disinfection, but, with the exception of 
chlorine, sulphur dioxide and formaldehyde their use in the military estab- 
lishment, as in civil life, has been definitely abandoned. Some of these 
once vaunted disinfectants, as, for instance, the vapor of boiling vinegar, 
have been demonstrated to possess no germicidal value, while others, as 
bromine, iodine and nitrogen dioxide, have been discarded by reason of 
their poisonous and destructive properties and the difficulties attending 
their manipulation. These latter substances possessing, at the present 
time, a purely theoretical interest, any consideration of other than the 
three first named is unnecessary. 

Chlorine. Cl. This body, first used in 1774 for purposes of room 
50 



786 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

disinfection, is a greenish-yellow gas, possessed of characteristic and dis- 
agreeable odor, rapidly corroding metals and having an intensely irritant 
effect upon animal tissues. In its employment every precaution against 
its respiration should be taken, since if inhaled in even weak proportion it 
may produce spasm of the larynx, severe bronchitis and even death. 

Chlorine in considerable volume may be generated by mixing 18 parts, 
by weight, of fine table salt with 15 parts of pulverized binoxide of man- 
ganese and adding a mixture containing 45 parts of commercial sulphuric 
acid and 21 parts of water. Evolution of the gas, at first rapid, becomes 
gradually slower but may be hastened by the action of gentle heat. It 
may also be prepared by adding 4 parts, by weight, of strong hydrochloric 
acid to one part of manganese dioxide. Chlorine is readily produced by 
the action of any acid, no matter how weak, upon chlorinated lime or 
bleaching powder. While chlorinated lime theoretically contains about 
nfi per cent, of chlorine, that proportion may not actually be obtained on 
decomposition, owing to greater or less deterioration and loss through atmos- 
pheric influences. One pound of fresh chlorinated lime, however, on being 
treated with sufficient acid for its complete decomposition, may be expected 
to evolve about 2.8 cubic feet of chlorine gas. 

Chlorine is an efficient deodorant through its great affinity for hydro- 
gen, readily decomposing hydrogen sulphide, ammonia and volatile aromatic 
bodies ; the resulting hydrochloric acid further neutralizing a certain amount 
of ammonia. Chlorine is also able to decompose water, particularly in the 
presence of sunlight, by uniting with the hydrogen and liberating the oxy- 
gen ; which latter substance, in its turn, attacks and decomposes such organic 
matter as may be within reach of its action. Chlorine does not readily 
combine with hydrogen in the dark, but when exposed to light these ele- 
ments unite with a rapidity proportionate to the intensity of the actinic 
rays in the light employed. Exposed to ordinary diffuse light, the chemi- 
cal combination is slow a fact of practical importance in the considera- 
tion of the disinfection of such dark places as sewers, cesspools or privy 
vaults. 

At the present time, when employed at all, free chlorine is used rather 
as a deodorant than a disinfectant. Its germicidal action appears to be 
uncertain and to depend in large degree upon the amount of moisture pres- 
ent in the atmosphere. Through its high specific gravity, 2.47, chlorine 
has a constant tendency to seek the lowest level and hence anything like 
its equal diffusion, in the disinfection of a large, room, can scarcely be ob- 
tained. The gas has little powers of penetration, and its use, if any, must 
be practically confined to surface disinfection. In order effectively to 
utilize chlorine for room disinfection, the proportion of the gas in the at- 
mosphere must be carried to a degree which will result in the extensive 
bleaching of colored fabrics a serious hindrance to its practical employ- 
ment in the military service. 

Sternberg found that an exposure of six hours to a constant strength 
of one-half of one per cent, of chlorine was necessary to destroy the potency 
of vaccine virus. According to Notter and Firth, a proportion of 0.5 per 
cent, is fatal to all micro-organisms in five to eight hours, while 0.3 per 
cent, destroys bacterial life in the presence of moisture. A rapid and con- 
siderable diminution in the percentage of the gas originally present must 



DISINFECTION. 787 

always be anticipated through unavoidable loss by diffusion ; and in its ap- 
plication to room disinfection a strength of one per cent, of chlorine must 
be considered as the minimum. For the proper disinfection of a tight 
chamber of a thousand cubic feet capacity, the decomposition of about 
four pounds of good bleaching powder by about one pound of strong sul- 
phuric acid would therefore be required. For practical purposes of disin- 
fection, free chlorine is much inferior to sulphur dioxide ; since it is more 
difficult to control, more dangerous to manipulate and more destructive in 
its effects. 

Sulphur Dioxide. SO t . Through the ease with which it can be 
generated, as well as its comparatively slight cost, sulphur dioxide is a 
favorite agent for purposes of disinfection. Possessing powerful reducing 
properties, its action is directly opposite to that of chlorine ; it having an 
affinity for oxygen while chlorine eagerly unites with hydrogen. Sulphur 
dioxide gas is very irritant to the mucous membranes, and, while it has no 
such marked toxic action as chlorine, due caution should always be observed 
in its employment. It condenses to a clear liquid at 18 C. (the tempera- 
ture of a mixture of ice and salt) even at the ordinary pressure of the 
atmosphere. It is a heavy gas, having a specific gravity of 2.21, and this 
property, by preventing its ready diffusion in the atmosphere, operates to 
some extent against its efficiency as a disinfectant. 

As ordinarily carried out in practice, sulphur dioxide, for purposes of 
disinfection, is obtained by combustion of the element sulphur in the at- 
mosphere. The sulphur to be burned should be carefully calculated in 
amount according to the size of the room to be disinfected, and should be 
reduced to small fragments to favor its more ready and complete combus- 
tion. For a similar reason the necessary amount of sulphur should be 
divided into several portions located in different parts of the room, rather 
than placed in large quantity in a single utensil. From the high specific 
gravity of the gas, the sulphur to be burned should be elevated some little 
distance above the floor rather than placed upon it. For its combustion, 
large iron pots serve an excellent purpose and are always available. These 
pots, containing the necessary amount of sulphur, should be placed on 
bricks in a tub of water in order to lessen the dangers of accidental con- 
flagration. The contents may be ignited by live coals or shavings but 
better by the free use of alcohol. The operator should at once retire to 
avoid the irritant fumes which are rapidly generated, the door is tightly 
closed and all crevices are quickly sealed. For safety as well as rapidity, it 
is well to employ two men in the work. The room should remain closed 
for twenty-four to thirty-six hours, after which the windows should be 
thrown open, from the outside if possible, and the apartment thoroughly 
aired for some hours. Sulphur dioxide is very soluble in water, the latter 
taking up nearly forty-five times its bulk of gas, and hence it more readily 
attacks micro-organisms in a moistened and less resistant state. To assist 
its action the atmosphere should be impregnated with watery vapor ; and 
this may be produced, without additional diminution of the available oxy- 
gen in the room, by vaporization of the water surrounding the pot in 
which the sulphur was placed, through the heat generated by the combus- 
tion of the sulphur itself. 

About one-half pound of water should be vaporized for each pound of 



788 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

sulphur burned, to allow for unavoidable defects or losses; although theo- 
retically only one-fifth pound of water should be volatilized, for each pound 
of sulphur burned, in the conversion into sulphurous acid of the sulphur 
dioxide produced. This matter of a sufficiency of water vapor is essential 
to the success of the operation of disinfection; Geddings having found 
that an exposure of forty-eight hours to a 9.2 per cent, strength of dry 
sulphur dioxide was unable to destroy various pathogenic bacteria, while 
micro-organisms under the same conditions were uniformly killed by as low 
a strength as 1.6 per cent, with an exposure of eighteen hours, when an 
abundance of watery vapor was provided. A previous elevation of the 
temperature of the room, particularly in cold weather, will greatly assist 
the germicidal action of the sulphur dixoide. 

Prior to a general disinfection by sulphur dioxide, such metallic ob- 
jects as are readily attacked by this body should be removed from its in- 
tended sphere of influence. It is of the greatest importance hermetically to 
seal all openings from the outside, pasting over with paper all cracks or 
apertures in walls, windows and doors and stuffing chimneys with news- 
papers ; since in many instances where this precaution has not been taken 
the gas so rapidly escapes and its proportion diminishes to such a degree 
as to destroy its germicidal efficiency. Thus Wolffhiigel found that the air 
of a chamber which at the beginning contained 18 per cent, of sulphur 
dioxide, by volume, contained only about 4 per cent, at the end of an hour 
and but 1.8 per cent, at the end of three hours. 

The experiments of Sternberg on vaccine lymph would seem to show 
that, hi order to be effectively germicidal, sulphur dioxide should be pres- 
ent in the atmosphere in at least the proportion of 1.4 per cent. Accord- 
ing to Wernich, if the proportion of sulphurous acid reaches 4 per cent, it 
becomes an efficient germicide; while Marty placed the minimum at 4.7 
per cent. According to Thoinet, an exposure of twenty-four hours to a 
strength of 4 per cent, invariably destroyed the germs of tuberculosis, 
cholera, glanders, typhoid fever and diphtheria, provided the chamber did 
not permit of the escape of the gas; but the micro-organism of anthrax 
was resistant under those conditions. Wolffhiigel was able to destroy 
anthrax spores by exposure for twenty-four hours to a 4.5 per cent, 
strength, working under laboratory conditions implying an air-tight apart- 
ment and an atmosphere saturated with moisture; but he concluded that 
under the conditions found in actual practice sulphurous acid must always 
be considered as a somewhat uncertain disinfectant an opinion shared by 
Cassedebat. In view of the many factors which may exert a powerful in- 
fluence in impairing the germicidal powers of sulphurous acid, it is well to 
err upon the safe side, if at all, in determining the working minimum for 
all conditions. From this standpoint the requirement of a four per cent, 
strength, by volume, will not seem excessive. 

One pound of sulphur, when completely burned in the atmosphere, 
evolves 11.2 cubic feet of sulphur dioxide. A four per cent, strength of 
sulphur dioxide, by volume, may be obtained by the complete combustion 
of not less than four pounds and two ounces of sulphur to each one thou- 
sand cubic feet of air space in an absolutely air-tight compartment, and this 
should be the amount of sulphur employed. A greater proportion of the 
gas, such as the six, or even ten per cent, strength commonly used in 



DISINFECTION. 789 

ship disinfection by the Marine Hospital service, can be obtained only 
by means of a special furnace or by the employment of liquefied sulphur- 
dioxide gas. 

A recent and eminently satisfactory method for the generation of sul- 
phur dioxide for purposes of disinfection consists in its evolution from the 
liquid state, in which, as supplied in tins, siphons and carboys, it is a com- 
mon article of commerce. In the use of the liquefied sulphur dioxide the 
danger of accidental fire is avoided, the substance is readily handled and a 
much greater amount of the gas can be thrown into the atmosphere in a 
short space of time ; thus avoiding the constant escape of gas by diffusion 
through the long period of its production, as effected by the ordinary com- 
bustion of sulphur. 

To offset the advantage of this method, however, it should be borne in 
mind, having reference to the atomic weights of sulphur and oxygen, that 
one pound of sulphur will produce two pounds of sulphur dioxide by its 
combustion. It is evident, therefore, reversing the proposition, that two 
pounds of liquefied sulphur dioxide must be used in lieu of each pound of 
sulphur required the claims of the manufacturers to the contrary. The 
method of utilization of the liquefied gas is extremely simple. If the sub- 




Fio. 382. Commercial Tin of Liquefied Sulphur Dioxide. 

stance is used in the small tins, it is only necessary to cut simultaneously 
the leaden pipes in the tops of the necessary number of cans and invert 
the latter in an ordinary wash-bowl or iron pot, when volatilization rapidly 
occurs. If the substance be contained in glass or metallic siphons, the 
room can first be sealed and then the necessary amount of liquid sulphur 
dioxide projected from the outside through a small pipe, passed through 
the keyhole or other small aperture, into a suitable receptacle. For this 
purpose, the internal pressure in the siphon is sufficient. The increased 
expense attached to the use of liquefied sulphur dioxide has been some- 
thing of a drawback to its general employment the disinfection per thou- 
sand cubic feet by its use costing eighty-five to ninety cents, where the 
solid sulphur necessary for the same space, together with the alcohol used 
in its ignition, would cost only about one-tenth of that amount. Its 
convenience, safety and especially the fact that by this method any pro- 
portion of the gas can quickly and readily be obtained in a given space, 
should, however, outweigh any minor questions of expense. It has re- 
cently been prescribed for use in the British army in lieu of roll sulphur. 

Sulphur fumes of relatively weak strength possess but slight powers of 
penetration. In the proportion usually obtained by the ordinary method 
of the combustion of sulphur, too great reliance must not be placed upon 
simple fumigation with sulphur dioxide in the absence of other and acces- 
sory measures of disinfection. To be thoroughly efficacious, prolonged ex- 
posure to a considerable proportion of the gas, in the presence of moisture, 



790 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

is required. The destructive properties of this substance as regards fabrics 
may often furnish a strong argument against its use. 

Formaldehyde. CH a O. This is a colorless gas, extremely irritat- 
ing to the mucous membranes and of a strong, pungent odor. It pos- 
sesses the same specific gravity as air a fact of great practical importance 
in regard to its distribution when used as a disinfectant for krge spaces. 
It is somewhat unstable and is of neutral reaction ; although toward alkalies 
it behaves something like an acid but does not form true salts. At com- 
mon temperatures it is but slightly soluble in water ; but by cooling and 
agitating, a solution containing forty per cent., by weight, can be made. 
Its solubility is increased if wood alcohol be added to the water but in 
such cases the gas appears to combine with the alcohol and not form a sim- 
ple solution. According to Trillat, if such an impure solution be heated, 
the methyl alcohol combines with a certain quantity of formaldehyde in the 
production of methylal, a body said to possess no germicidal properties 
whatever. Whenever the gas or its saturated solution is cooled to 20 C. 
it forms a solid by polymerization, called paraformaldehyde, through the 
union of two molecules and the same body is formed by boiling down a 
solution of the gas in water. This polymeric product is a white, soapy sub- 
stance, soluble in water and alcohol. When this latter substance is dried 
in vacuo, over sulphuric acid, a third body, trioxymethylene, is formed, 
consisting of three molecules of CH.,0. This is a white powder which 
gives off a strong odor of formaldehyde. Both these polymers are appar- 
ently restored to the simple gaseous molecule by heating in a current of 
air ; and are capable of being ignited, burning with a blue flame and leav- 
ing but little ash. At low temperatures, this polymerization may be to a 
great extent prevented by the addition of calcium chloride or other neutral 
substance to the solution of formaldehyde. The addition of formaldehyde 
to concentrated solutions of the fixed alkalies results in sweet-tasting com- 
pounds, the nature of which has not as yet been determined. A com- 
plex amine results from its addition to ammonia, and this reaction is util- 
ized in the quantitative determination of formaldehyde and also as a means 
of rapidly removing all traces of this irritant gas from recently disinfected 
rooms. 

Formaldehyde coagulates albumen, but when added to a solution of 
serum albumen it prevents it from coagulating by heat. It readily unites 
with the nitrogenous products of decay, fermentation and decomposition, 
forming true chemical compounds which are both odorless and sterile. It 
is thus a true deodorizer ; in that it does not mask one odor by another 
still more powerful, but forms new chemical bodies which possess no odor. 
It is from this property of combining directly with albuminoids forming 
the protoplasm of micro-organisms that the gas is supposed to derive its 
powers as a germicide. 

When formaldehyde solution is boiled with an alkaline solution of re- 
sorcin the liquid turns red. For the determination of the amount of 
formaldehyde in a solution De Schweinitz recommends a method depending 
upon the decomposition of hydroxylamine hydrochloride by formaldehyde 
in the production of hydrochloric acid, the quantity of which may be 
readily determined by titration with tenth-normal alkali solution. An 
amplification of this method is adapted to the determination of the quan- 



DISINFECTION. 



791 



tity of formaldehyde present at any one time in the air of a space under- 
going disinfection. 

Although there are several methods for its' production, formaldehyde 
gas is probably best prepared by bringing the vapor of methylic alcohol, 
properly mixed with air, into contact with a metallic surface or fine metal- 
lic powder, or any fine powder which does not melt and upon which 
neither the air nor alcohol exerts any chemical action. The surface or pow- 
ders must first be heated to a red heat which temperature chemical union 
will afterward maintain. The chemical change involved depends upon 
the following reaction : CH 4 -+- = CH,O -f- H 9 O. The metals or pow- 
ders most employed are platinum, copper, copper and iron oxides and coke ; 
the first-named probably being the best for this purpose. While theoreti- 
cally about ninety-three per cent. , by weight, of the alcohol should become 
formaldehyde, it is stated that the actual yield will not be over fifteen to 
twenty per cent, under ordinary conditions ; the alcohol not usually being 
more than eighty per cent, pure and a large proportion of it being con- 
verted into CO, and other organic bodies during generation of the formal- 
dehyde. Upon silk, woolen and cotton fibers, or upon any coloring agent 
outside of some of the little used aniline dyes, formaldehyde has no injuri- 
ous effect. The dry gas has but slight action on polished metal, but its 
watery solution rapidly attacks and corrodes steel. The gas may be con- 
sidered as being comparatively non-toxic to the higher forms of life and 
considerable quantities may be respired for a short time without ill effects. 
Still, it is well to observe a certain degree of caution in its use. 

Formaldehyde in aqueous solution is on the market under various 
trade names, such as "formalin," "formal " and "woodine " the latter con- 
taining an admixture of a considerable quantity of wood alcohol, which 
some manufacturers add to increase stability. The solid polymer is com- 
mercially known as " paraform " and is probably present to some degree in 
all formaldehyde solutions. 

According to Stahl, the relative antiseptic value of formaldehyde, as 
compared with some of the commoner substances used as disinfectants, is 
as follows: Hydrogen peroxide, 1-20,000; mercuric chloride, 1-14,300; 
silver nitrate, 1-12,500; carbolic acid, 1-333; potassium permanganate, 
1-285; boracic acid, 1-143; formaldehyde gas in solution, 1-25,000. 
The germicidal effect of formaldehyde in watery solution is thus compared 
by Park and Guerard : 



Disinfectant 


Strength. 


Bacteria. 


Destruction of vitality. 


Mercuric chloride 


1-1,000 


Anthrax spores . 


In 5 minutes. 




1-5,000 


All other germs 


In 15 minutes. 


Silver nitrate 


1-10,000 


Anthrax spores. 


In 48 hours. 


Silver nitrate 


1-4,000 


All other germs 


In 2 hours. 


Carbolic acid 


8-100 


Anthrax spores . 


In 48 hours. 




1-300 


All other germs 


In 2 hours. 


Tricresol 


1-100 


Anthrax spores. 


In 48 hours. 


Tricresol 


1-600 


All other germs 


In 2 hours. 




1-100 


Anthrax spores. 


In 1 hour. 




1-100 


All other germs 


In 5 minutes. 


Formaldehyde (40 percent, sol.). . 
Formaldehyde (40 percent, sol.). . 
Formaldehyde (40 per cent. sol. ) . . 


8-100 
1-100 
1-100 


Anthrax spores. 
All other germs 
Most other germs. 


In 15 minutes. 
In 1 hour. 
In 80 minutes. 



792 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

According to Walter, a watery solution of one per cent, strength rapidly 
destroys all pathogenic micro-organisms; a somewhat longer time being 
necessary in the case of the spore-forming bacteria. Faeces are deodorized 
almost immediately and are sterile at the end of ten minutes when 
mixed with a solution of this strength. 

Formaldehyde does not appear to be surpassed as a germicide and anti- 
septic by any other substance unless it be bichloride of mercury, while it 
possesses the invaluable advantages of not being retarded in action by al- 
buminoid matter, of not injuring the articles to which it may be applied 
and of being safer for general use. 

It cannot be too strongly emphasized that the efficiency of formalde- 
hyde disinfection largely depends upon its intelligent supervision. The 
unsatisfactory results obtained by some observers appear to have depended 
upon different types of apparatus used, the temperature of the room, cur- 
rents of air and many other factors. Hence conclusions based upon one 
type of apparatus should not be applied to other methods. The manner of 
applying the gas also appears largely to influence its efficiency, and better re- 
sults appear to follow the liberation of a krge amount in a short time than 
the generation of the same quantity in a longer period. A low temperature 
largely impairs the effectiveness of formaldehyde disinfection and the latter 
should not be attempted in a temperature below 10 C. Where possible, 
the room to be sterilized should be artificially heated during cold weather ; 
as the germicidal action of the gas is more rapid and complete above 27 C. 
the range between 10 C. and 27 C. appearing to make little difference 
with its action. A certain amount of moisture in the atmosphere is desir- 
able, as it tends to retard repolymerization. In working with a gaseous 
disinfectant of this kind the currents of air must also be taken into account. 
On windy days, in rooms upon the exposed side of a building, the gas escapes 
so rapidly in spite of due care in sealing air-cracks that it is extremely 
difficult to obtain thorough disinfection ; and, on account of air-currents, there 
are small spaces in nearly every room which are extremely difficult to steri- 
lize. This gas being much more diffusible than sulphur dioxide, propor- 
tionately greater care is required in sealing up all cracks and crevices in 
room disinfection. 

Formaldehyde appears to be an excellent and valuable surface disinfect- 
ant, but to possess only small penetrative powers under ordinary condi- 
tions. Park states that three times the ordinary quantity must be used to 
penetrate a single thickness of cloth ; whence it follows that heavy fabrics 
should preferably be disinfected by steam, boiling or soaking in germicidal 
solution. It appears to be established that an exposure of not less than 
eight hours, at a temperature not lower than 10 C. and to a strength of 
formaldehyde gas not less than one per cent, by volume, will effect surface 
sterilization. Positive results may be obtained with similar amounts and 
shorter exposure, but they cannot be regarded as uniform under all cir- 
cumstances. It should be understood that proportion of gas and time of 
exposure cannot well be separated. The time of exposure must vary as 
the amount but it is a safe plan in practice to make the amount large 
and the time long. According to Fournier, the combination of acetone 
with formaldehyde greatly increases the penetrating power of the ktter. 
The acetone has no bactericidal effect but merely serves as a mechanical 



DISINFECTION. 793 

vehicle for the formaldehyde. He advises the preliminary treatment of 
the room with the vapor of a mixture of acetone and water, equal parts, 
followed after an interval of an hour by the use of the formaldehyde. 

For the rapid generation of formaldehyde gas, outside the use of the spray 
already described, some special apparatus is required. As before noted, 
it may be slowly evolved by spontaneous evaporation from its watery solu- 
tion ; but any attempt to expel the gas more rapidly by boiling appears to 
result largely in the production of a polymer, which requires for its decom- 
position a heat considerably above that of boiling water. The generation 
of the gas in its direct production from methyl alcohol depends upon re- 
tarded combustion, and hence the ignition or the use of too great heat in 
the use of the alcohol simply results in the splitting up of that substance 
into elementary bodies without the production of formaldehyde. Since 
the solid paraform resolves into the original formic aldehyde at 135 C., it 
is evident that the application of too great heat may result in the complete 




FIG. 363. Bowdoin Apparatus for the Generation of Formaldehyde from Wood Alcohol. 



combustion of parafonn pastils without the evolution of formaldehyde in 
any considerable amount. 

To meet the above conditions three types of apparatus, intended for 
the generation or liberation of the gas from wood alcohol, from a watery 
solution of the gas and from its solid polymer, are now on the market. A 
number of modifications of these original types have been constructed, but 
these do not differ essentially from each other. One general fault appears 
to be that the generators are too small, and hence too slow in action, to 
give full satisfaction in the disinfection of large rooms. On account of 
the great diffusibility of the gas, the best apparatus for room disinfection 
is that which can be relied upon to liberate the greatest amount of the gas 
in the least time and which combines simplicity with durability and cheap- 
ness. The main idea is to get the necessary proportion of gas into the room 
in the shortest possible period. Hence, in the sterilization of large spaces, 
it is well, if the type of apparatus be small, to operate several generators 
simultaneously. 

The simplest apparatus in which wood alcohol is directly converted 
into formaldehyde is that known as the Bowdoin generator. In this ap- 
paratus the fumes of wood alcohol contained in a receiver are passed through 
a collar of hot platinized asbestos. In the operation, the alcohol in the re- 
ceiver is ignited and the asbestos collar held over the flame until incan- 
descent, usually requiring about half a minute, and is then dropped over the 



794 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

receiver, smothering the flame. The heat already created, however, con- 

tinues to volatilize the wood spirit, which, passing through the asbestos, 

maintains its incandescence and is itself 
decomposed into formaldehyde the opera- 
tion continuing automatically until the sup- 
ply of alcohol is completely exhausted. This 
apparatus does not yield by any means the 
amount of formaldehyde gas theoretically 
possible ; the loss probably being due to the 
great difficulty of maintaining the asbestos 
at a constant temperature. As a result, a 
considerable portion of the alcohol suffers 
complete combustion in the production of 
bodies of no gerinicidal value. The appara- 
tus described is both cheap and simple, but 
has necessarily to be abandoned in the room 
to be disinfected. Careful investigation 
has shown that by its use about fifteen per 
cent., by weight, of the alcohol used will 
be converted into formaldehyde; hence 
requiring as a minimum 500 cubic centi- 
meters of wood spirit for each 1,000 cubic 
feet of spape to be disinfected. The Ma- 
rine Hospital service requires the use of 
750 cubic centimeters for each 1,000 cubic 
feet and the employment of a generator 
capable of converting one liter of wood al- 
cohol into formaldehyde per hour. The 
cost of operating this form of apparatus, on 
account of wastage, is somewhat in excess 

of those using formaldehyde in watery solution or the solid paraform. With 

this method, the amount of ammonia required for neutralizing the formal- 

dehyde after the completion of disinfection can be evolved by heating or 

spraying one part of water of ammonia for each part of wood alcohol used. 
Of the appliances for expelling formaldehyde from its watery solution, 

the Trillat autoclave is the original type from which a number of modifica- 

tions have emanated. In the use of formaldehyde in 

solution, known under the various trade names of " for- 

malin," " f ormochloral " and "formal," it is necessary 

to bring such solution to a minimum temperature of 

135 C. to prevent repolymerization. Hence the em- 

ployment of the autoclave, in which it is readily pos- 

sible to create an internal pressure of three or four 

atmospheres before permitting the outflow of any of the 

gas. This apparatus also has the practical advantage 

of causing the sudden influx of a large quantity of 

gas into the apartment to be disinfected, and as the 

formaldehyde may be readily conducted through a 

tube wherever wanted and the apparatus manipulated 

outside the room, the latter is consequently always 




FIG. 364. Kny-Scheerer Apparatus, for 
the Liberation of Formaldehyde from its 
Watery Solution. 




FIG. aes.-scnering and 
of MJS 

the 8oM 



DISINFECTION. 



795 



under the supervision of the operator. An improved form of Trillat's gen- 
erator is that of the Kny-Scheerer Company, at present supplied in the 
United States army, which appears to possess all the qualities for room 
disinfection ; being simple in construction, safe in operation and requiring 
no great original outlay. Struever has shown that only about seventy-eight 
per cent, of a forty per cent, solution of formaldehyde can be actually ob- 
tained for disinfection purposes. Since allowance for the gas escaping from 
the room must also be made, it will scarcely be safe to use with this appa- 
ratus less than 350 cubic centimeters of formalin per 1,000 cubic feet; the 
cost of disinfection with this apparatus being about eleven cents per thou- 
sand feet. For neutralization of any remaining formaldehyde after the use 




FIG. 366. Formaldehyde Chamber, for the Disinfection of Small Articles. 

of this method, 1.25 liters of water of ammonia should be employed for 
each liter of formalin used. 

For the vaporization of the solid paraformaldehyde, compressed into 
pastils, the Sobering and Glatz lamp has been constructed. The operation 
of the apparatus is simple, and consists merely in the application of heat to 
the necessary number of pastils when placed in the cup of the disinfector. 
This method of generation is cleanly and convenient, but is somewhat' more 
expensive than the preceding. At present the lamps on the market are 
small and scarcely adapted to the disinfection of large spaces, but are ad- 
mirable for the sterilization of instruments and similar articles. Care must 
be taken not to apply too great heat to the paraform pastils, since otherwise 
these decompose in the production of bodies other than formaldehyde. The 
cost of sterilization with this lamp is about twenty cents per thousand feet. 
For success with the use of this solid isomer not less than one gram should 
be volatilized for each twenty cubic feet of space. To neutralize completely 



79C THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

the resulting formaldehyde, one liter of water of ammonia for each 150 
grams of the solid used must be employed. 

For the disinfection of articles which are too valuable to be destroyed 
by tire and which cannot be rendered germ-free by other means without 
injury, certain special chambers for disinfection with formaldehyde have 
been designed. In such chambers, with the high proportion of the gas 
which can be secured, penetration to a satisfactory degree can be obtained 
with bulky articles. The previous creation of a partial vacuum of course 
materially assists the penetration of the formaldehyde. The objection to a 
small chamber, if the gas be expeUed from its watery solution, is that moist- 
ure from the evaporation of the water collects on the inside of the chamber 
and wets the goods where they come in contact with the walls. The gas 
should hence be preferably applied in the dry state in a strength of not less 
than twenty per cent, by volume, and the time of exposure should not be 
less than one hour. 

In the absence of any specially constructed chamber, and particularly 
for use in the field, an excellent disinfection chamber may be made from 




FIG. 367. Improvised Disinfecting Bag with Formaldehyde Generator, for Field Use. 



a large box the seams of which have been tightly caulked ; or by the use 
of a large canvas sack the exterior of which has received several coats 
of white lead. The operation of this arrangement is shown in the accom- 
paying illustration. 

Formaldehyde gas is superior to sulphur dioxide as a disinfectant for 
dwellings because it is more efficient and rapid in its action ; because it is 
less injurious in its effects on household goods ; because it is less toxic to 
the higher forms of animal life ; because, when supplied from a generator 
placed outside of the room and watched by an attendant, there is less danger 
of fire. Apart from the cost of the apparatus and the greater time involved, 
formaldehyde gas, generated from commercial formalin, is not more expen- 
sive than sulphur dioxide, viz. : eight to ten cents per thousand cubic feet 
being approximately the cost of the disinfectant in either case. 



SPECIAL APPLICATIONS OF THE DISINFECTIVE PROCESSES. 

Room Disinfection. In the disinfection of habitations, the processes 
are not as yet perfected nor do the problems presented always appear easy 
of solution. The disinfection of a closed space is a complex operation, im- 
plying not only contact with germicidal substances in gaseous form but 
also mechanical cleansing and the application of disinfectant solution. 
Hence, on the account of the necessity of evacuation by the occupants and 
the arduous nature of the processes of disinfection as applied to habitations, 



DISINFECTION. 797 

the employment of the latter should usually not be advised in the absence 
of ample justification for such action. 

In the routine method for the disinfection of a room the sealing up of 
all its openings and its fumigation should precede all other treatment. 
When properly carried out, a large proportion of the infectious germs, even 
if not all, are destroyed by this process ; rendering their dissemination in 
the subsequent steps of the operation less liable to occur, as also the con- 
traction of disease by the persons engaged in the work of disinfection. 
The gaseous agent selected should if possible be either sulphur dioxide or 
formaldehyde and of these, preferably the latter. After sealing up all 
cracks from the outside, and the preparation of the room and its contents in 
the manner best calculated to assist the germicidal action of the gas, the 
operation of fumigation is carried out in the manner already described. 
Usually the formaldehyde generator is placed just outside the door and the gas 
parsed into the room through the keyhole. After sufficient exposure to the 
gas, the room is thrown open and thoroughly aired, small articles as clothing, 
fabrics or furniture being removed for such further treatment for their dis- 
infection as may be appropriate. If formaldehyde is used, any excess of 
gas in the room may be neutralized by ammonia sprayed through the key- 
hole before entrance. ' 

The nature of the wall determines the method to be employed for its 
disinfection. If painted in oil a simple washing or spraying with a disin- 
fectant solution, in connection with fumigation, will give satisfactory re- 
sults. Wainscoting should receive the same treatment as flooring. 
Papered walls should have all layers of paper removed, be washed or 
sprayed with a germicidal solution, preferably a five or ten per cent, filtered 
solution of chlorinated lime, and then be re-papered. Calcimined or white- 
washed walls should be cleansed, washed with a solution of chlorinated 
lime and thoroughly re-calcimined or whitewashed. An excellent 
method for the mechanical cleansing of walls consists in the employment 
of pieces of stale bread, into which the adherent dirt and bacteria are 
incorporated by rubbing. After the operation, all crumbs and fragments 
of the bread are carefully collected and burned. While excellent results 
are attained by this method, as well as by the use of cloths wet in disin- 
fectant solutions, properly to rub down the walls of a large room requires 
the expenditure of much time and labor. For the disinfection of walls the 
removal of plaster is not necessary ; but barrack and hospital walls should 
always be impermeable to moisture to facilitate their disinfection. 

Bacterial life is naturally much more abundant on the lower than the 
higher portion of walls ; thus the number of germs present near the floor 
of a stall examined by Duclaux was ten times greater than at an elevation 
of one meter. It is quite often considered that the ceiling is not infected, 
since it is evidently so much less exposed to contamination than the floors 
and lower portion of the walls. Still, a certain amount of dust and par- 
ticulate matter is always adherent to the ceiling and hence the latter should 
receive its share of attention in the process of disinfection. 

Woodwork, such as doors and window-frames, should be cleansed with 
soap and hot water, washed with a solution of bichloride of mercury and 
repainted when dry. After any de'bris present has been dampened and care- 
fully removed, the floor should be cleansed with soapsuds or strong lye and 



798 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

then thoroughly scrubbed with a standard solution of mercuric chloride or 
tricresol, particular attention being given to the treatment of all joints or 
cracks. ' For this purpose an unnecessary amount of fluid should not be 
employed, since the germicidal properties of the agents used are soon de- 
stroyed the coal-tar products by evaporation and mercuric chloride through 

its affinity for organic matter and the remaining moisture favors subse- 
quent bacterial development. Disinfection of ordinary floors is not always 
a simple matter owing to the number of crevices, filled with organic matter 
and detritus, which afford protection to micro-organisms and offer a favor- 
able medium for their development. For this reason, wooden flooring should 
always be made of carefully matched and seasoned material and should 
then be rendered impervious by one of the methods described in a pre- 
vious chapter. Floors so prepared are readily disinfected by simply mop- 
ping with some suitable solution. 

Stone or tile floors are disinfected in the manner above described. If 
stone floors are in bad condition, after the removal of all dirt from cracks 
and crevices and their careful disinfection, it is desirable that a solid new 
flooring of cement, asphalt or concrete should be superimposed. 

Dead spaces between floors, if tight, are preferably disinfected by the 
use of formaldehyde gas, generated in the autoclave apparatus. If open 
to the air and infection appears probable, a few floor boards may be re- 
moved and the interior washed or sprayed with a filtered solution of chlori- 
nated lime of ten per cent, strength. 

Exposure of the room to the action of the sunlight and to free perfla- 
tion by the air, for several days following the completion of the processes 
of disinfection, is always desirable. 

Disinfection of Stables. Prior to the application of the processes 
of disinfection to the structure itself, all small articles are to be removed ; 
such as have possibly undergone contamination, particularly buckets, curry- 
combs, brushes and such horse equipment as may have come in con- 
tact with sick animals or with infectious material, should be promptly 
sterilized. Metallic objects or utensils, after a thorough preliminary 
cleansing with soap, a stiff brush and hot water, may be sterilized by boil- 
ing or else by being immersed or washed in a five per cent, solution of car- 
bolic acid or a two per cent, solution of tricresol. Leather articles, as har- 
ness or equipment, should receive a similar preliminary cleansing and either 
be scrubbed with a solution of bichloride of mercury 1-1,000 strength, a 
strong solution of carbolic acid or tricresol, or be subjected to the continued 
action of formaldehyde gas. Blankets and horse-covers may be disinfected 
by soaking for several hours in a strong solution of mercuric chloride 1-800, 
renewed according to necessity. They should then be dried in the open 
air and, if possible, subsequently washed. 

For the disinfection of the stable itself, all hay and grain should be 
removed from racks and mangers and all bedding from the floors. After 
its careful collection at some designated point, this refuse should be satu- 
rated with mineral oil and destroyed by fire. All interstices in the floor 
and walls should be scraped out and the de'bris removed, carefully swept up 
and burned. The woodwork should be cleansed throughout with hot lye or 
strong soft-soap solution, following which all mangers, hay-racks, stall 
partitions, floors and walls are to be thoroughly scrubbed with a one per 



DISINFECTION. 799 

cent, solution of tricresol applied vigorously with the aid of a stiff brush ; 
care being taken that all parts of any cracks or crevices are penetrated. 
After several days' exposure to air and sunlight the interior of the stable 
should receive a coat of whitewash, applied thickly and prepared from lime 
freshly burned shortly before the time of use. After the completion of the 
processes of disinfection, the stable should not be re-occupied for several 
days to permit of thorough drying, airing and the disinfectant action of the 
whitewash. 

Horse troughs used for the watering of animals are, when infected, 
to be emptied of their contents. If not connected with a drain or sewer, 
the water should be sterilized by the addition of a proper amount of a 
suitable disinfectant before being poured upon the ground. Cleanliness of 
the troughs should be thoroughly accomplished and all organic matter, 
animal or vegetable, removed and disinfected by fire or by immersion in 
some strong germicidal solution. For metal-lined troughs the use of acid 
solutions or bichloride of mercury is of course inapplicable, and such may 
be disinfected by the use of one of the coal-tar products. Wooden troughs 
may be treated with an acid solution of mercuric chloride. The operation 
is completed by a thorough flushing of the trough with a large amount of 
clean water and by exposure to the sun and air, in a dry condition, for 
forty-eight hours. All pipes or carriers of the overflow water should be 
carefully disinfected with five per cent, carbolic acid solution. 

Disinfection of Wells and Cisterns. It is not necessary to em- 
phasize the fact that, where possible, all suspicious water-supplies should 
be avoided ; but circumstances may arise by which a well, the only readily 
available source of supply for an isolated military camp or station, may be 
temporarily infected and seriously inconvenience the users of the water, 
unless some safe remedy is at hand. To meet the requirements of such 
cases, efforts have been made to determine how far it is possible to disin- 
fect wells ; with the result that this has been shown to be practicable, 
providing the contamination has not been great and is not continuous. 
The method recommended for the disinfection of wells which have been 
only temporarily polluted, as by the accidental deposition into them of in- 
fective matters from above or the washing into them of such material by 
storm-water, consists in pouring a mixture of equal parts of crude carbolic 
acid and sulphuric acid into the well until it is present in the proportion 
of about five per cent, of the total contents. The mixing of the whole should 
be thorough, and the walls of the well should be scrubbed with brooms dipped 
in the solution. The inside of the delivery pipe should be thoroughly cleaned 
by flushing with the solution and scrubbing with a long-handled brush 
wet with the same disinfectant. After standing for twenty-four hours the 
contents should be pumped out, the slime from the bottom thoroughly re- 
moved and the well allowed to refill. This process is repeated until all 
traces of the acid have disappeared. 

Disinfection of wells is also practised by the use of freshly burned 
lime. About half a barrel of lime is thrown into the well, stirred up with 
the water and the walls are scrubbed down with the resulting milk of lime. 
The well is then pumped out, cleaned, allowed to refill and a second sup- 
ply of lime added ; after which the well is allowed to stand for twenty- 
four hours. After a thorough stirring the solution is then pumped out, 



800 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

and the well is allowed to refill and is re-emptied until tfee water removed 
is practically free from lime. The delivery pipe is scrubbed with strong 
carbolic-acid solution. 

For drinking purposes alone, all water that is of necessity derived 
from suspicious sources should be boiled before use. No process of dis- 
infection of wells can replace this precaution, and the former is of value 
chiefly as it removes the danger of indirect and accidental infection from 
the use of the water for bathing, washing and domestic purposes. 

Disinfection of Tentage. As with other habitations, temporary 
evacuation is an essential preliminary to the disinfection of tentage. 
After removal of all contained articles for their disinfection by appropriate 
methods, the tents, while standing, should be sponged or sprayed with a 
two per cent, solution of tricresol or a four per cent, strength of carbolic 
acid. The lower portion of the canvas walls, together with the sod-cloth, 
should receive a particularly thorough wetting outside as well as inside. 
The tent poles should be washed with the same solution and the flooring, 
if any, taken up and subjected to the same treatment. The site of the 
tent having been thoroughly policed, it may be well sprinkled with a ten 
per cent, solution of chlorinated lime ; or calcic oxide may be so scattered 
over the space as to form a thin layer, the lime being immediately slaked 
in situ by the use of a spray or watering-pot. Flooring, as well as the 
interior of the tent, should be exposed to the air and sunlight for several 
days. The floor should not be laid down until the necessity for such 
action becomes urgent through the intended early re-occupancy of the tent, 
when a new location for the latter should be selected. A much more de- 
sirable method, but one implying infinitely greater labor, consists in the 
striking of all tents and the sterilization of their canvas by boiling in large 
improvised vats. After thorough washing of tent poles and floors with 
tricresol solution, the camp should preferably be established at some un- 
infected point and the former site abandoned. 

Disinfection of Clothing. The processes of disinfection must be 
carried out with special care when applied to articles of clothing or bed- 
ding; since such objects, which have been in close contact with the per- 
sons of the sick, are necessarily particularly dangerous through the greater 
amount of infectious material with which they are permeated. 

Clothing, bed-clothing and similar articles, when infected, should be 
placed in tight receptacles or rolled in sheets wet with some germicidal 
solution to avoid dissemination of morbific matter during transportation to 
the place of disinfection ; or special sacks might be kept on hand for this 
purpose, as is the custom in the French army. Such articles should of 
course be unrolled or removed from the sacks prior to the commencement 
of the process of disinfection. 

All articles belonging to the soldier which are made of cotton, such as 
shirts, stockings or towels, may be sterilized by any of the accepted 
methods. On account of 'its comparative simplicity and readiness "of ap- 
plication, immediate immersion in a strong disinfectant solution with sub- 
sequent boiling and washing best answers all purposes. In time of epi- 
demic a suitable water-tight receptacle, containing some strong disinfectant 
solution, should habitually be kept outside the ward in which infectious 
cases are receiving treatment. All infected articles should be at once 



DISINFECTION. 801 

submerged in this solution and allowed to remain until their removal to 
the laundry, where boiling, of the articles in soap-suds or a weak soda 
solution should be performed before washing. 

When soiled by evacuations, secretions or excretions, the method of 
disinfecting bed or body linen is somewhat different. Infected abides 
thus contaminated should be immersed in a solution made up of three 
parts of carbolic acid, two parts of ordinary soft soap and one hundred 
parts of cold water. They should be allowed to soak in this solution for 
two hours and then be rinsed out before being subjected to the ordinary 
laundry processes. The reason for this immersion in cold carbolized-soap 
solution is that it not only destroys all non-sporulatiug bacteria but also 
dissolves out blood and fiecal stains ; the latter being rendered indelible by 
coagulation of their albuminous constituents, if the soiled articles should 
be at once exposed to steam, boiling water or corrosive sublimate solution. 

Articles of woolen material, as uniform blouses, trousers or flannel shirts, 
should not be disinfected by boiling on account of the resulting shrinkage of 
the fabric ; the use of flowing steam and simple immersion in disinfectant 
solution not being entirely free from the same objection. Woolen wearing 
apparel, well spread out, is disinfected with the least deterioration of qual- 
ity by the use of formaldehyde gas, the employment of which for this 
purpose has already been outlined. Superheated steam is much employed 
for this object and gives excellent results. In its use the clothing should 
be loosely hung up on hooks in the chamber, the temperature raised to 110- 
112 C. and maintained at that point for twenty minutes. In the British 
service an exposure of one hour to a temperature not less than 105 C. is 
required. Clothing which has been disinfected by superheated steam 
should not be allowed to remain in the apparatus, but should be hung in 
the open air to dry so as to avoid the production of creases. Disinfection 
of fabrics by means of sulphur dioxide may be satisfactorily employed 
with all articles which, through their nature, suffer deterioration or injury 
on exposure to dry or moist heat or on immersion in disinfectant solutions. 
In selecting a room for such purposes it should be no larger than the prob- 
able necessities demand, nor should it be in any occupied habitation on 
account of the discomfort which would otherwise be caused among the 
inmates. It should have impermeable walls and floors and the windows 
and doors should be capable of being hermetically sealed. Since the sides 
of wooden boxes are easily penetrated by sulphur dioxide gas, their use 
gives unsatisfactory results unless they are well papered on the inside with 
stout and preferably glazed paper. The articles to be disinfected are hung 
up in the chamber and are so disposed as to present the greatest amount 
of surface to the action of the gas. Exposure should last for thirty-six 
hours, at the end of which time the articles should be thoroughly sunned 
and aired. For the disinfection of clothing by sulphur dioxide its genera- 
tion from the liquid state is preferable, and its presence in considerable 
strength, favors penetration of fabrics. Disinfection by sulphur dioxide is 
applicable to all fabrics although, in concentration of four per cent, and 
particularly in the presence of moisture, it has a tendency to fade colors. 
This is to some extent the case with the sky-blue kersey uniform trousers. 
Bed-clothing, when disinfected with sulphur, may long retain an extremely 
disagreeable odor of hydrogen sulphide. Spraying with a ten per cent. 
51 



802 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

strength of formalin solution gives excellent results if due care and thor- 
oughness be observed throughout the operation, and the articles are hung 
up for some hours in a small, tight space. If immersion of woolen fabrics 
in a disinfectant solution becomes necessary in the absence of better methods 
of disinfection, the solution employed should not contain a free mineral 
acid, it should be cold, the garments should be submerged without rubbing 
and should be allowed to dry in the open air without wringing or other 
unnecessary manipulation. 

Under all circumstances, but particularly in time of epidemics, the 
sterilization of the personal apparel of the soldier, where required, should 
be accomplished as promptly as possible. An excellent rule is promptly to 
disinfect the wearing apparel of all men who enter hospital for treatment, 
irrespective of the cause of their entrance. 

Disinfection of Excreta. Faecal matter of an infectious character 
is ordinarily disinfected by the application of germicidal substances in 
solution. Vessels intended to receive these matters should contain in ad- 
vance a sufficient quantity of the solution selected ; and, upon receipt of 
the infectious material, should be sufficiently agitated thoroughly to mix 
the contents, covered and allowed to stand at least one-half hour before 
being emptied and cleansed. Absolute sterilization is to be obtained only 
by thorough mixing, a procedure, even with small quantities of fsecal mat- 
ter, which is extremely unpleasant as well as somewhat difficult of accom- 
plishment. With large amounts of faeces, attempts at disinfection will in 
practice generally give results which in their nature are partial rather than 
absolute. 

The best disinfectants for fsecal matters are such as possess, in addi- 
tion to cheapness and strong germicidal qualities, the property of destroy- 
ing bad odors. It is better that such chemical change be induced as will 
actually destroy odors of this character rather than mask one bad smell by 
another still more powerful. For the destruction of faecal effluvia a strong 
solution of the sulphate of iron, though possessing but comparatively feeble 
germicidal powers, best answers all indications. The use of chlorinated 
lime serves an excellent purpose, except for the disagreeable odor possessed 
by this substance itself. It is well to remember, in this connection, that 
foul odors are always to be prevented by the maintenance of strict cleanli- 
ness, and that their existence necessarily implies an absence or an incom- 
plete execution of those sanitary provisions by which the highest condition 
of health can only be maintained. 

Dry earth possesses no antiseptic qualities and merely promotes the 
desiccation and decomposition of excrement while absorbing the odor. 
Corrosive sublimate solution of 1-1,000 strength, when mixed with equal 
parts of fteces, neither destroys the odor nor accomplishes disinfection, while 
a five per cent, solution of carbolic acid, added to a similar bulk of faeces, 
does not render the latter sterile at the end of an hour. Tricresol, however, 
is a valuable agent for this purpose, since its activity is not impaired 'by the 
presence of albuminous matter. In a strength of one per cent, this sub- 
stance is something of a deodorant as well as actively germicidal. For 
the destruction of the typhoid bacillus a mixture of copper sulphate and 
sulphuric acid, each in two per cent, strength, is said to be particularly 
efficacious. 



DISINFECTION. 



From determinations made by Vincent, the efficiency of the various dis- 
infectants officially provided for use in the army of the United States, as 
regards the sterilization and deodorization of fresh or decomposing faecal 
matter, would seem to be as follows : 



t 


Deodorizing 
power. 


QUANTITY OF DISINFECTANT REQUIRED. 


For the disinfection 
1,000 c.c. of faecal matter 
In twenty- four hours. 


For each man daily, 
when considered as the 
unit of a large body 
In the fiH<i. 


Chlorinated lime 


Very good. . 
Fair 


10-16 gm 


17-28.3 gm. 

35 gm. 

More than 850 c.c. 
More than 340 gm. 


Lime (calcium oxide) 


100 gm. 
250 gm. 
80 em 


Labarraque's solution 


Good . 


Carbolic acid 


Good 


Bichloride of mercury, 1-1,000 
acid solution 


Poor 


More than 200 c.c .. 
More than 200 gm . . 


Sulphate of iron 


Very good . 





For the disinfection of small quantities of faeces the use of a solution 
of tricresol, two per cent, strength, would seem to be most applicable. 
For the disinfection of latrines the employment of chlorinated lime or 
freshly burned lime (calcic oxide), with the use of sulphate of iron when 
required, is advisable on the ground of cheapness, germicidal efficiency 
and deodorizing properties. 

In permanent barracks with water carriage and modern plumbing an 
attempt at the disinfection of the discharges is unnecessary, except during 
epidemics. When this appears to be advisable, the water-closets should be 
thoroughly scrubbed with a five per cent, carbolic acid or a two per cent, 
tricresol or chlorinated lime solution. Sufficient of the solution should be 
passed into them to fill the traps completely, and leave a quantity of the 
disinfectant in the body of the fixture. Care should be taken after con- 
cluding this procedure that no infected discharges again find their way into 
the closets, but all discharges of this nature should be carefully sterilized 
before being thrown down the hoppers. 

The disinfection of urinals is accomplished by the same means as is 
that of water-closets, except that milk of lima should not be used for this 
purpose. 

For the disinfection of infected faeces and urine, these should be passed 
directly into a five per cent, solution of carbolic acid or a two per cent, 
solution of tricresol. When milk of lime is used, the excreta should be 
mixed with a double volume of this material/ Whatever the disinfectant 
solution used, care should be taken that this and the faecal matter are well 
mixed and the whole should be covered up and allowed to stand for half 
an hour to one hour. The mixture may then be diluted with hot water 
and poured slowly into the water-closet the flush of which should be 
allowed to run at the sam time to prevent clogging of the trap. 

The disinfection of privy pits and latrine trenches may often be re- 
quired. While the first should not be tolerated at a military post, they 
may be best and most satisfactorily disinfected by the use of milk of lime, 
made up in the proportion of at least two per cent, of the contents of the 
vault; or it should be added and thoroughly mixed until the entire mass 
is strongly alkaline to litmus paper. By beginning with an empty and 



804 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

clean privy -vault and adding the lime mixture daily, not only is the odor 
prevented but the mass is continuously disinfected. Sulphate of iron is 
very efficient in destroying bad odors generated under such conditions. 
Fur the disinfection of latrine trenches the above methods may be employed ; 
but, as already mentioned, an excellent means of accomplishing disinfec- 
tion under field conditions consists in a daily burning out of the trenches 
by the combustion of leaves, straw, dry grass or manure, scattered over the 
contents and sprinkled with petroleum. 

The ideal ultimate disposition of infectious fsecal matter is by crema- 
tion in special apparatus. Unfortunately this method of disposal is usu- 
ally not practicable except on a small scale ; and even then implies the 
outlay of considerable additional effort and expense. Its use, however, in 
connection with the administration of hospitals in the field should always 
1)6 resorted to, particularly in time of epidemic; the exercise of a lit- 
tle ingenuity readily permitting the construction of forms of apparatus 
which, though crude in detail, may give eminently satisfactory results 
in operation. These have been discussed to some extent in a previous 
chapter. 

The sputum of cases of tuberculosis and diphtheria,, and probably also 
that of pneumonia, is an important agent in the propagation of disease 
from the infected individual. Such sputum, particularly when of a tuber- 
culous nature, is much more dangerous when dried than when in the moist 
condition ; hence the great object is to maintain the sputum in the latter 
state until the time of its destruction. For this purpose cuspidors should 
be freely distributed throughout the barracks. They should, while in use, 
receive a daily disinfection and cleansing and should at all times contain 
a sufficient quantity of germicidal solution. The use in cuspidors of solu- 
tions of carbolic acid and mercuric chloride is not, however, of advantage, 
since both coagulate mucus and the former, in addition, possesses an un- 
pleasant odor. Probably the use of fresh milk of lime is best for this 
purpose. 

Sputum is best disinfected by the application of moist heat. Boiling 
water almost instantaneously destroys the tubercle bacillus while in the 
wet condition, but exposure to its action for a much longer period is 
required for its destruction after desiccation. In ordinary practice, cus- 
pidors may best be sterilized by immersion in boiling water for a period of 
ten minutes. Sputum which has become hardened and adherent to the 
receptacle through drying may be loosened by the use of a solution of lye 
or other strong alkali. 

Miscellaneous. Articles of wood may be disinfected by washing 
with a germicidal solution or by exposure to a gaseous disinfectant. 
Leather cannot be disinfected by steam without undergoing severe injury, 
and articles as harness, horse equipment, boots or shoes must hence be 
disinfected by other measures. A mechanical cleansing preceded by the 
application of or immersion in some germicidal solution is the 'method 
usually employed, but this is probably inferior to disinfection by means of 
formaldehyde gas. Cooking or eating utensils are preferably disinfected 
by immersion in boiling water, as are also objects of metallic nature. 
Musical wind instruments are best sterilized by boiling, the mouthpiece 
being removed and receiving special attention. Wooden musical instru- 



DISINFECTION. 805 

ments, which cannot be boiled, should be taken apart, cleansed and sponged 
with formalin. Wagons and ambulances may be disinfected by thorough 
preliminary cleansing with soap and hot water, followed by the application 
of some suitable germicidal solution by sponge, brush or hand pump. 

Disinfection of the Person. Attempts at disinfection of the per- 
sons of the sick whether it be by the use of disinfectant ointments in 
scarlatina, gargles, sprays and mouth washes in diphtheria or medication 
calculated to asepticize the faeces and urine in typhoid fever while in 
every way praiseworthy, may be considered as entirely lacking in that 
completeness of action upon which the definition of the term disinfection 
depends. While such efforts may have considerable inhibitory effect, as 
regards the vitality, propagation and dissemination of the specific germs 
extruded from the organism, this effect is only temporary, and the most 
painstaking endeavor fails entirely to reach the systemic foci from which 
myriads of infectious bacteria are constantly being discharged. Disinfec- 
tion of the person of the sick will therefore be accomplished only as a 
result of processes occurring in the individual himself; depending upon 
his vital resistance and his powers of destruction and elimination, through 
the formation of antitoxins, as regards an invading and infectious micro- 
organism. 

The disinfection of the person of the convalescent within whose organ- 
ism, through an acquired immunity, the forces of an infectious disease 
have ceased to act, as well as with regard to the healthy individual, who 
may be temporarily the vehicle of infectious matter, is, for all practical pur- 
poses, capable of accomplishment. The process includes the attainment of 
thorough personal cleanliness through the use of hot water, soap and flesh 
or nail brush, the shampooing of the hair and beard with borax and the 
application of a solution of mercuric chloride, 1-3,000, to the entire sur- 
face of the body a solution made up of one part of Labarraque's solution 
to nineteen of water also being excellent for this latter purpose. 

The Sanitary Officer and His Assistants. The various processes 
which go to make up the procedure known as disinfection require, above 
all things, exactness and attention to small details to ensure ultimate suc- 
cess. Hence the sanitary officer will not relieve himself of the responsibility 
for such a delicate and important operation if with a few vaguely worded 
and ill understood directions the matter is turned over to enlisted sub- 
ordinates, who, faulty in their technique, are absolutely ignorant of the 
scientific principles underlying the processes which they are called upon 
to perform. The sanitary officer himself should personally superintend 
and direct the operation of disinfection. He should have careful super- 
vision over the preparation as well as the employment of the various 
agents used, should minutely instruct those engaged in the work in the 
proper performance of their duties and the dangers to which they them- 
selves may be exposed, and his should be the responsibility for any acci- 
dents during the operation. He should specifically name all articles and 
places to be disinfected and he should make sure that his orders are obeyed 
in the spirit as well as the letter. 

As far as possible, all work of disinfection should be done by the men 
of the Hospital Corps; although, if considerable rough labor be necessary, 
a certain portion of it may safely be delegated to such soldiers of the line 



806 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

as may be detailed for such duty under the orders and control of the sani- 
tary department. All individuals engaged in the work of disinfection 
should wear complete outer clothing of cotton duck which, on ceasing 
work, may be removed and sterilized by boiling, steaming or soaking in 
disinfectant solution. Under no circumstances should clothing be worn 
in the constant contact and close relation of the camp and barracks, which 
has served the soldier for use while engaged in the process of disinfection. 
At the end of each day, or on concluding the task, the hands, face, hair 
and beard should be washed and disinfected, a general bath should be taken 
and clean clothing donned. Eating and drinking, during the continuance 
of the processes of disinfection, by those who have the operation in charge, 
is always to be avoided. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

THE HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING HIS 

EFFICIENCY. 

ALCOHOLISM. 

THE attitude of the recruit toward the use of intoxicating liquors is 
largely determined prior to his entrance into the military service ; but that 
a few soldiers become drinking men after enlistment, as a result of social 
environment, in the army as in civil life, cannot be denied. To this end 
the common practice of " treating " used as an expression of hospitality 
or social courtesy, often under circumstances when liquor may not be de- 
sired by either the recipient or donor contributes not a little ; and to 
drink and ask the companionship of others in consuming alcoholic bever- 
ages is the first step toward the development of the confirmed drunkard. 
Further, the idea that social superiority attaches to an ability to consume 
large quantities of alcoholics still exists to a certain extent among soldiers 
of a lower and more depraved class , and by such a novice in the art of 
drinking may not rarely be assailed with ridicule and contempt. Such 
men, now fortunately few in our army, are largely responsible for the 
idea which occasionally obtains among recruits, that a physical toler- 
ance of alcohol is an essential attribute of the soldier and that only he 
who is able to imbibe his share of intoxicant without apparent effect 
has demonstrated his fitness to enter upon the profession of arms. Some 
few soldiers undoubtedly acquire the habit of taking alcoholic stimulants 
largely as a result of favorable opportunity, particularly if they are men 
without aim or purpose in life beyond the perfunctory accomplishment of 
routine duties men who are possessed of no internal resources for their 
amusement and to whom the normal existence is burdensome, dull and 
monotonous. A still smaller class of soldiers appears to be markedly in- 
fluenced by atmospheric conditions, with respect to alcoholics ; and prolonged 
exposure to heat, cold and moisture have frequently been observed to 
develop, in such men, a latent desire for drink which probably otherwise 
would have remained dormant. A certain number of periodical military 
drunkards are true degenerates. Without apparent cause, in the face of 
promises and protests to the contrary and in spite of the knowledge of 
inevitable court-martial and disgrace, alcoholic excesses are begun and 
continued until exhausted nature brings the debauch to a close. Then 
follow deep contrition and humiliation, renewed and earnest promises of 
reform and an apparently sincere attempt to repair the damage done to 
health and character, a period of decorous life, and again a plunge into 
excess. The greater proportion of inebriates, however, as found in the 
military service, appear to be men of unstable mental equilibrium, indeci- 
sion and weak character. Such, under any conditions out of the ordinary, 



808 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

find the mental strain beyond their power of endurance and promptly seek 
relief in the nerve -benumbing effects of alcohol. 

Of recent years, the idea has been advanced that the drunkard is not 
always responsible for his acts ; that he may be physically and morally de- 
fective and should be treated not as an offender but as a sick man sub- 
ject to a species of insanity. This idea, accepted by many as explaining 
and excusing all cases of alcoholism, is highly misleading and is applicable 
only to a restricted class in which inebriety is but one of the several out- 
ward manifestations of an ill-balanced mentality. It is safe to consider 
that the tendency toward alcoholism, instead of being a specific disease 
which drives its victim to some form of narcotic excess, simply expresses 
a defect in the nervous organization which makes his condition or existence 
more pleasurable or less painful during intoxication than during abstinence. 
Finally, according to Crothers, inebriety is distinctly favored by malnutri- 
tion ; and hence uniformity in the time of taking food, as well as its good 
quality and ample variety and amount, should be the constant care of the 
company commander. 

No small proportion of soldiers who would resent the title of drunkard, 
take a quantity of alcohol daily sufficient to maintain a certain state or 
degree of stimulation for months at a time, exhibit no special peculiarities 
of conduct and attend to their duties with the utmost regularity. Such 
usually die from or are discharged by reason of some acute inflammation 
or chronic disease largely dependent upon alcoholic irritation. While it is 
obvious that any attempt at defining the limitations of this class must be 
purely arbitrary, it is considered by many authorities that any man drinking 
on an average more than two ounces of pure alcohol during the twenty-four 
hours whatever be the form in which it is absorbed may be included in 
this category. 

Prevalence of Alcoholism. In the military service, the abuse of 
alcoholic liquors is one of the most potent factois by which efficiency is 
impaired ; and in the past, its effects were so apparent that drunkenness 
was largely looked upon as a distinctively military failing. Its influence 
as well as its prevalence is indifferently shown by military statistics ; for all 
drinking men do not enter hospital for alcoholism, and a certain proportion of 
drunkards succumb to such various diseases as gastritis, cirrhosis of the liver 
and nephritis, in the development and ultimate result of which the use of 
intoxicants has probably played no minor part ; further, the term alcoholism 
includes many pathological conditions and their symptoms, these varying 
according to the quantity of alcohol taken and the manner in which it is con- 
sumed. Chronic drunkenness occurs chiefly among old soldiers, and these 
steady drinkers, although their rates are higher, are not proportionately 
represented on sick report as compared with younger men, among whom 
the use of intoxicants more frequently occurs in the nature of periodical 
excesses requiring medical treatment. Acute alcoholism not rarely termi- 
nates life, and even at as recent a period as the decade 1886-95 it stood 
sixth in order of importance in determining the mortality among the white 
troops of the United States army. The proportion of discharges and con- 
stant non-efficiency from this cause is, however, low. 

The rates for alcoholism in our service have steadily decreased in the 
past fifteen years ; this having been accomplished through greater care in 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 809 



the selection of recruits, a growing sentiment in favor of temperance in 
the social class from which the soldier is drawn, greater effort on the part 
of the authorities for the early elimination of inebriates from the military 
service, and, finally and of the most importance, from the establishment of 
canteens, the favorable influence of which is subsequently discussed. The fol- 
lowing table shows the prevalence of alcoholism in the military forces of the 
United States during the twenty-eight years of peace, 1870-97, inclusive. 























Number of 


Number of 






Number of 


Number of 






cases admit- 


cases of de- 






canes admit- 


cases of de- 


Year. 


Mean 
strength. 


ted to hos- 
pital, per 


lirium tre- 
IMCII-. per 


Year. 


Mean 
strength. 


ted to bos- 
Pital.per 


lirium tre- 

IIIl-MS. |MT 






1 000 


1,000 






1,000 


1,000 






strength. 


strength. 






strength. 


strength. 


1870. 


81,881 


88.20 




1884. 


24,034 


62.10 


* 


1871. 


29,430 


45.80 




1885. 


24,138 


58.50 


1.57 


1872. 


26,844 


47.50 




1886. 


23,572 


42.80 


1.01 


1873. 


27,909 


49.40 


z 


1887. 


23,841 


46.70 


.88 


1874. 


27,021 


58.10 


O 
B 


1888. 


24,726 


40.20 


.92 


1875. 


23,575 


68.00 


9 


1889. 


25,008 


41.40 


.51 


1876 


24,886 


64.50 


i 


1890. 


24,284 


40.70 


.86 


1877 


23,707 


59.00 





1891. 


23,269 


40.00 


.90 


1878 


23,381 


59.40 


4 


1892. 


24,203 


87.20 


.78 


1879. 


23,964 


65.10 


I 


1893. 


^25,287 


33.80 


.55 


1880. 


24,004 


'61.00 


f 


1894 


25,376 


80.90 


.82 


1881. 


23,222 


57.60 




1895. 


25,204 


80.10 


'.83 


1882. 


23,239 


68.70 




1896. 


25,119 


28.80 


.39 


1888. 


28.439 


66.00 




1897. . 


25,417 


27.80 


.58 



* No figures available. 

In 1898, during the war with Spain, the admission rate fell to 15.1; 
the more active operations and novelty supplying much of the desired ex- 
oitement, while the unusual conditions undoubtedly attracted a superior 
class of young men to the colors. The same was true in 1899, when the 
rate for alcoholism in the bulk of our army, engaged in hostilities and hard 
field service in the Philippines, was only about half as high as among the 
troops on the home stations, one-fourth as high as among those serving in 
Cuba and one-eighth as high as among those in garrison in Porto Eico. 

ADMISSIONS FOR ALCOHOLISM AND ITS RESULTS, PER 1,000 OP EACH CLASS, 1885-97, 
A MOV. WHITE AND COLORED TROOPS. 



Year. 


White 
troops. 


Colored 
troops. 


Average 
for whole 
army. 


Year. 


White 
troops. 


Colored 
troops. 


Average 
for whole 
army. 


1885 


59 00 


400 


r,.| no 


1893. 


37.23 


7.47 


33*97* 


1886. 


50.21 


4.67 


47.09 


1894. 


33.79 


4.79 


80.94* 


1887. 


50.88 


2.28 


46.31 


1895. 


82.16 


6.47 


80.11 


1888. 


43.97 


4.55 


40.12 


1896. 


81.20 


5.70 


29.06 


1889. 


45.64 


2.07 


41.43 


1897. 


80.02 


4.62 


-JT.st; 


1890. 


44.45 


5.59 


40.78 










1891. 


44.19 


3.39 


40.01 


Decade. 








1892. 


41.19 


8.35 


87.23* 


1886-95. . 


42.87 


4.89 


88.69* 



* Including Indian soldiers. 

The remarkable difference existing between the white and black troops 
of the United States service, as regards the prevalence of inebriety, is well 
illustrated in the above table, statistics for extended periods showing that 
there is approximately only one-tenth as much sickness from the use of 



810 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

alcohol among the negro as the white troops. Few colored soldiers are 

hard drinkers and, as far as beer and other malt liquors are concerned, 

there apparently exists a racial distaste for these beverages on the part of 
the negro. It is a matter of frequent observation that where colored troops 
replace white soldiers in a garrison, the canteen profits from beer and 
wine are greatly diminished, while the sales of cigars and confectionery are 
proportionately increased. 

This racial difference as regards the use of alcoholics is further shown 
by statistics for the British army, covering the Europea'h and non-Euro- 
pean troops in the West Indies. During the year 1897, the admission rate 
for alcoholism, per thousand strength, was 15.6 for the former class, while 
the death rate was .74; for the native (negro) troops, during the same 
year, the admission rate was only .6, while the death rate from this cause 
was nil. 

Among white soldiers, nationality appears to be a factor of much im- 
portance in determining the relative amount of alcoholism. Thus for the 
seven-year period 1890-96, the rates of admission in our army, per thou- 
sand of each class, were as follows : 

Nativity. ' Admissions. 

American -born 28.51 

German 26.62 

English 51.84 

Irish 90.96 

For the same seven-year period, the number of admissions for alcohol- 
ism, per thousand strength, was 46.27 for the artillery branch of the ser- 
vice, 45.30 in the infantry and but 19.72 in the cavalry. The lower rates 
for the last-named service are probably due to some extent to its more active 
duties, but chiefly to the fact that the negro troops at that time constituted 
one-fifth of the cavalry force and less than one-twelfth of the infantry. 

Alcoholism furnishes the single exception to the general rule that dis- 
ease of any character is much more liable to attack the young recruit than 
the old soldier ; the rate for alcoholism steadily increasing with age, where 
that for venereal disease, for instance, as steadily diminishes. Figures 
showing the influence of age upon the frequency of alcoholism, for the 
seven-year period 1890-96, are as follows: 



Age. 


Admissions per 
1,000 of each 


Deaths per 
1,000 of each 


Age. 


Admissions per 
1,000 of each 


Deaths per 
1,000 of each 




class. 


class. 




class. 


class. 


19 and under. . 


2.87 




35-39 inclusive 


62.29 


0.25 


20-24 inclusive 


9.17 


0.02 


40-44 


104.05 


.73 


25-29 


22.36 


.05 


45-49 


102.91 


1.51 


3034 


42.45 


.20 


60-54 


135.57 


1.83 



That alcoholism should be less common among our young soldiers, 
however, is only what should be expected. In civil life, the use of alcohol 
increases with age, and inebriety is most common among the middle-aged 
and the old. The development of drinking habits, from the tendency toward 
the use of alcoholics which may be possessed by the recruit, is naturally 
slow, and their ill effects are not usually manifested until such habits have 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 811 

been established for some time. Further, as already shown, the standard 
of morality as regards the use of alcoholics is now much higher than it 
was a number of years ago, when the old soldiers, who now furnish such 
extremely high rates of admissions and deaths from alcoholism, were en- 
listed and received their first impressions in this respect. 

As to the amount of drunkenness existing in foreign services as com- 
pared with our own, no exact figures can be given for the reason that 
milder cases do not appear on their hospital records, but are treated in quar- 
ters or infirmary. Comparisons in this respect, however, are not favorable 
to our own troops. The rates are, however, relatively high in England and 
Germany much lower among the Latin nations, who are comparatively 
free from the vice of drunkenness. In France, where absinthe is largely 
consumed, the rates for alcoholism are said by Laveran to be only about 
one-tenth as high as in the English service ; and Viry states, that for the 
sixteen years 1875-90, the deaths from the use of alcohol in the French 
army amounted only to 11.5 in actual numbers annually a considerable 
proportion of these occurring in Algeria. In Italy and Spain, the rates are 
even lower than in France and during the occupation of territory by our 
troops as a result of the late war, it was a matter of common comment that 
an intoxicated Spanish soldier was rarely, if ever, seen. In both the British 
and French services, the amount of alcoholism is much greater among troops 
serving in the colonies than among those at the home stations. 

Results of Alcoholism. The effects of alcohol upon the organism 
are numerous and varied. The mental symptoms are seen in delirium 
tremens, epileptiform convulsions, insomnia and sensory disorders. There 
are congestions of the alimentary tract, sometimes causing hemorrhage, 
the liver is speedily disturbed and the continued use of spirits results in 
its congestion and ultimately in the increase of connective tissue, as seen 
in cirrhosis. In the military service, however, whiskey-drinkers generally 
break down from other causes before a marked cirrhotic condition is 
reached. Gastric catarrh is set up by spirits, imperfect digestion follows 
their excessive use, the nerve cells are changed and atrophied, the cardiac 
action is habitually hurried and often arhythmic, the heart muscle under- 
goes fatty degeneration and the arteries become atheromatous. The effect 
of moderate drinking, in the production of an increased amount of sickness 
other than that directly attributable to alcoholism, is well illustrated by 
the data collected by Carpenter relative to British soldiers serving in India, 
based upon 17,354 moderate drinkers and 9,340 abstainers. Of the former 
class, he found that one out of every 7.28 soldiers was admitted to hospital, 
where of the latter group but one out of every 14.47 was so admitted. 
Still more favorable to the abstinence class were > the figures obtained by 
him for the average number of days spent in hospital; the moderate drink- 
ers losing 102 days where the abstainers lost but 36.4 days during the 
same period. In another comparison, it is stated that the admissions to 
military hospitals in India, during the year 1891, amounted to 5 per cent, 
for abstainers and 10.4 per cent, for all others. Madden states that in three 
benefit associations in England, 1884-88, there were lost by each laborer 
26.20, 24.68 and 27.66 weeks through illness an average of 26.18 weeks 
while during the same period the "Sons of Temperance," a society which 
admits total abstainers only to membership, showed the average number of 



812 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

weeks lost by each member to be 7.48; a loss of time less than one-third 
that given in the other associations. 

As to the actual effect of alcohol upon the death rate, it is obvious that 
military statistics furnish imperfect information in this respect, since only 
acute cases of intoxication are noted on the records. Chronic alcoholism, 
however, while it practically does not appear as a factor in military statistics, 
imparts a peculiarly grave character to all diseases occurring in drunkards, 
and does much, through the organic changes, local congestions and nervous 
depression which result from the continued use of spirits , to bring about a 
fatal termination in any serious affection. According to Schmidt, in the fif- 
teen largest cities of Switzerland, where the causes of deaths are recorded by 
physicians without the names of the deceased being divulged, of all males 
twenty years of age or over, dying in 1891, alcohol figured as the immedi- 
ate or* remote cause of death in 10.7 per cent., and in 1892, in 10.8 per 
cent. With regard to the use of alcohol upon marching troops, Rosse says : 
"The experience of the Ashantee War, in 1876, shows that alcoholic drinks 
are hurtful. The men who did not touch the supplementary ration of 
rum presented a mortality and morbidity inferior to the other soldiers." 
This statement will be supported by all who have served with troops on 
campaign. 

Drunkenness is one of the most frequent causes of insanity and suicide 
in the military service. In civil life, some writers attribute two-thirds of 
all mental diseases to alcohol, and it is said to be the chief cause of self- 
destruction in. England, Germany and Russia. According to Madden, in 
the years 1878 and 1879, it was found that in 27 per cent, of all male 
lunatics in the asylums of Germany the existing mental derangement could 
be traced directly to the abuse of alcoholics. In Austria, according to 
Gauster, 40 per cent, of insanity occurring in males could be ascribed to 
alcoholic excesses. In the military service of our own country, no figures as 
to the influence of inebriety upon insanity are obviously available ; but for 
the seven years 1887-93, out of 134 suicides occurring during that period, 
alcoholism was officially reported as being the direct cause in 31.3 per cent. 

With regard to the effect of alcohol upon the performance of work, 
Frey draws the following conclusions: "Alcohol has an injurious effect 
upon the unfatigued muscle, in that it sensibly diminishes the amount of 
work the muscle is capable of doing. The feeling of fatigue is abolished 
by alcohol, and for that reason the labor seems to be lighter." He further 
states that : " All the pleasant sensations of physical and mental strength 
brought forth by moderate doses of alcohol are deceptive, and depend upon 
paralysis of the critical judgment and momentary blunting of the sensation 
of fatigue." 

The quickened circulation following the use of alcohol in small amount 
is accompanied by the subjective feeling of warmth. This sensation, how- 
ever, is wholly deceptive and depends upon the primary relaxation of the 
superficial capillaries ; but this very relaxed condition speedily reduces the 
temperature below normal, through the cooling of the blood as a result of 
its exposure to the atmosphere through the lungs and skin, and the stimu- 
lation of the sweat glands, with the increased loss of heat through evapo- 
ration. Further, alcohol interferes with the oxidation of fatty food and in 
this respect impairs the power of heat-production. Wood states that the 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 813 

bodily temperature in simple intoxication may fall as much as 3 C. ; the 
fall in temperature varying directly with the quantity of alcohol taken, and 
the reduction of temperature being less marked in the case of chronic alco- 
holics than in those less habituated to its use. Hence the individual under 
the influence of alcohol perishes from exposure to cold much more quickly 
than one who is sober. 

As to the effect of drunkenness upon military morals, no argument is 
required to show that the infractions of discipline recurring with each pay 
day are largely the result of alcoholic stimulation. It was noted of the 
British troops in India, in 1891, that of all minor offences but 1.5 were 
committed by abstainers where 6.7 were committed by moderate drinkers. 
Smart states: "The medical and court-martial records after pay-day, in all 
camps where whiskey can be procured, furnish data sufficient for insistence 
on its exclusion as the cause of much disease and many injuries and acci- 
dental deaths." As expressed byParkes: "When debarred from spirits 
and fermented liquids, men are not only better behaved, but are far more 
cheerful, are less irritable, and endure better the hardships and perils of 
war. The courage and endurance of a drunkard are always lessened ; but 
in a degree far short of drunkenness, spirits lower, while temperance 
raises, the boldness and cheerfulness of spirit which a true soldier should 
possess. If spirits neither give strength nor sustain it against disease, 
are not protective against cold and wet, and aggravate rather than miti- 
gate the effects of heat; if their use even in moderation increases crime, 
injures discipline and impairs hope and cheerfulness ; if the severest trials 
of war have not been merely borne but most easily borne without them ; 
if there is no evidence that they are protective against malaria and other 
diseases then the medical officer will not be justified in sanctioning their 
issue, or their use, under any circumstances." And Woodhull adds: "It 
is not necessary to insist, from theoretical or medical grounds alone, upon 
the mischief that alcohol causes soldiers. The observation of any officer 
of experience is enough. Liquor, besides weakening men physically, tam- 
pers with their will-power, disturbs their temper, makes them less trust- 
worthy even when sober, is at the bottom of almost every violation of 
discipline, and is the one agent that can convert a regular force into a 
mob. The absence of liquor usually means a clear guard-house. Abun- 
dant liquor means a heavy sick list, a large guard report, and a general 
feeling of doubt as to the command. It follows without saying that if the 
use of alcohol is hurtful in a personal and in a martial sense to the private 
soldier, who is the lowest unit in the military scale, it is very much more 
mischievous in its ultimate consequences when an officer, who is so potent 
with those beneath him, is its victim." 

That there are very rare emergencies in which alcohol might possess a 
certain value, either to supplement an insufficient issue of food or to gain a 
temporary stimulus at the expense of subsequent depression, may perhaps 
be admitted. It is certain, however, that, under nearly all conditions of 
military service, alcohol in any of its forms is only mischievous to the 
soldier. It is of interest to note, in this connection, that alcoholics still 
enter into the rations of most foreign armies, either as a daily or an occa- 
sional issue. Thus brandy is issued to the German troops during war ; 
rum to the English ; rum or brandy to the French ; brandy or wine to the 



814 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Portuguese and Spanish ; wine to the Italian, and brandy to the Austrian 
and Russian soldiers. 

Prophylaxis. Every effort should be made by officers for the preven- 
tion or diminution of drunkenness among troops. The dangers of the use 
of liquors should be fully explained to the men ; and while admitting that 
the soldier possesses the moral right to use alcoholics in moderation should 
he so desire, he should, at the same time, be made to understand that on 
passing the bounds of intoxication he becomes a proper subject for mili- 
tary discipline. Offences against sobriety, if in any way capable of inter- 
fering with the performance of duty, should be uniformly and severely 
punished ; and advantage should be taken of existing regulations to elimi- 
nate confirmed inebriates from the service as soon as possible. Company 
and commanding officers and court-martials should co-operate to this end. 
Troops are thus freed from the harmful influence of these men, and their 
summary punishment furnishes an example by which others will assuredly 
profit. Every attempt should be made to arouse a wholesome sentiment 
on the part of the more steady men against the inebriates, and special care 
should be taken to impress the former class with the fact that the penal- 
ties imposed for alcoholic excess are largely for their own protection, since 
they are the ones upon whom the execution of the unperformed duties of 
the delinquents must devolve. The better men should be made to under- 
stand that the drunkard, far from being an object of pity or worthy of 
consideration, is an encumbrance upon the military community of which 
they endeavor to form a worthy part and for whose derelictions they are 
thus the chief sufferers. Where such self-interest can be aroused, drunk- 
enness is soon looked upon by the men as a vice rather than a failing 
the inebriate will not be shielded by his fellows or his offence condoned. 

In reducing the proportion of alcoholism among troops aside from the 
summary discharge from the service of all confirmed inebriates, as above 
mentioned no soldier should be re-enlisted who has shown an undue 
fondness for strong drink, and no discharge should be given him in whigh 
this defect is not plainly set forth. Acquaintance with military duties 
does not compensate for the pernicious effects, direct or indirect, produced 
by the drunkenness of old soldiers. A most potent factor in reducing the 
rates for alcoholism would be the exercise of greater care on the part of 
recruiting officers in refusing to accept any man as a recruit who has the 
slightest appearance of being addicted to the use of intoxicants. Experi- 
ence has shown that recruiting officers are generally inclined to be too 
lenient in this respect. Much can be done to prevent alcoholic excesses 
through the proper administration of the canteen, and by the provision of 
suitable and sufficient employment and recreation ; since, as already stated, 
a large proportion of drunkenness is the result of ennui. So far as the 
offending individuals themselves are concerned, the invariable treatment 
of acute alcoholism in the manner required for narcotic poisoning by 
emesis, catharsis, cold douches and through lavage of the stomach will 
do much to bring about the desired reform. Repetition of this unpleas- 
ant but effective treatment will rarely be necessary. 

In determining the occurrence of alcoholism among troops, the example 
set by officers, in this respect, is of great importance. Nothing is more 
certain than that a drunken captain will have a drunken company. 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 815 

The Canteen System. No discussion of alcoholism among soldiers 
would be complete without reference to the canteen, which, more than any 
other factor, has operated to the welfare of troops and the promotion of 
temperance. This institution, officially known as the post exchange, had 
its origin in our service at Vancouver Barracks in 1880, but it was not 
until February, 1889, that it was officially recognized by the War Depart- 
ment and rules and regulations for its establishment and government 
were published to the army. 

The purpose of the canteen, as officially announced, is to supply troops 
with goods at a low rate of profit and to afford rational recreation and 
amusement to all enlisted men. The sale of ardent spirits is strictly pro- 
hibited therein; but commanding officers are authorized to permit light 
beer and wine to be sold by the drink, on week-days, in a room set apart 
for the purpose, when in their opinion such action is promotive of temper- 
ance. Gambling of any character is forbidden. Each canteen is managed 
by an officer selected by the post commander for his fitness for the posi- 
tion, he being allowed. one or more enlisted men as assistants; under re- 
cent orders, civilians only being allowed to serve as bar-keepers. As show- 
ing the favor with which the canteen system was received by troops, it is 
only necessary to say that, in 1894, five years after its inauguration, there 
were seventy-five canteens in successful operation in our service, and that 
during that year the total receipts were $1,417,079.62; of which sum no 
less than $304,649.91 were returned to the men as dividend profits, or about 
one dollar per month per man. During the year ending June 30th, 1898, 
the aggregate receipts of the exchanges in operation in the army amounted 
to $1,621,398.67, and there was received as money on deposit $189,- 
258.81 ; making the total amount of money received $1,810,657.48. There 
was expended for merchandise purchased, rent, fixtures and repairs, and 
expenses of operation, $1,297,737.16 which, less deposits, gave a profit 
of $323,661.51. From this amount, donations to the funds of the several 
regimental bands aggregated the sum of $9,154.51; to the maintenance 
of post gardens, $1,559.17; to post libraries, $640.06; to gymnasia, $2,- 
913.75; as prizes for the encouragement of athletic sports, $3, 336. 41, and, 
after setting aside the sum of $60,877.58 as a reserve fund to meet the 
anticipated expenses for at least one month, the sum of $254,890.93 was 
returned to the members in the form of dividends. 

The effect of the introduction of the canteen system upon sick rates with 
respect to alcoholism, as shown by the reports of the surgeon-general, was 
prompt and marked. For the decade 1878-87, the average number of ad- 
missions for alcoholism and its direct results amounted to 64.28 per thou- 
sand of white troops. This rate diminished during the next ten years, in 
proportion as canteens were gradually established at various posts, omit- 
ting fractions, in the following ratio: 44, 46, 44, 44, 41, 37, 34, 32, 31, 
30. On observing the admissions for alcoholism for the seven years 
1885-91, which immediately preceded the general establishment of the 
canteen system upon a satisfactory basis throughout the army, it is found 
that a yearly average of 1214.8 men found it necessary to apply for treat- 
ment from this cause ; while for the six years 1892-97, after canteens 
had been generally established throughout the army, an average of only 
928.4 men required medical care as the result of alcoholism a reduction 



816 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

amounting to 23.6 per cent. In 1890, there were 17 posts at which the 
admission rate for alcoholism exceeded 10 per cent, of the strength. In 
1891, the number of such posts had decreased to 11, and in the six sub- 
sequent years diminished at the following rate: 10, 7, 4, 5, 2, 2. This- 
favorable showing for the army at large was duplicated in the case of each 
individual post; the introduction of the canteen, at a military station, in no- 
instance failing to be promptly followed by a diminution of alcoholism. 
For certain stations this improvement was extraordinary. In 1889, Wil- 
let's Point had an admission rate for alcoholism of 222.97 per thousand. 
For 1890, the year during which the canteen was established at that 
post, it fell to 157.50, and in the next year was reduced to only 70.46. 
At Fort Spokane, the amount of sickness resulting from intoxicants was 
reported by the surgeon as having diminished fifty per cent, during the six 
months following the institution of the canteen. At Fort Douglas, in 
]SS8 and 1889, the total number of admissions attributed to alcoholism 
amounted to about 85 per thousand strength; while during the period 
1892-94 this rate fell to 52.95 per thousand strength and such instances 
might be largely multiplied. 

All are agreed as to the value of the canteen in the tropics, as well as 
at home stations, in reducing alcoholism. A report by O'Eeilly upon the 
condition of the British troops in Jamaica, states that the canteen, from 
which the men can always procure beer, has been largely instrumental in 
the disuse of stronger spirituous liquors and in a lessening of the evils which 
followed the free use of spirits in the tropics. In referring to the condi- 
tion of the Fourteenth United States Infantry at Manila, Cardwell ex- 
presses his belief that a great improvement shown in the figures for vene- 
real and alcoholism in this regiment was due to the establishment of a 
canteen, kept under admirable discipline, and he adds: "Cool American 
beer as a substitute for the ' beno ' of the native gin-shops has a most 
beneficent effect." From Porto Rico, the report of the inspector-general is 
as follows : " The post exchanges of this department have been the means of 
elevating the enlisted men by keeping them away from low and cheap resorts 
and the worst elements of Porto Rican society. I have noted that the 
exchange as operated in the department has reduced instead of increasing 
drunkenness, and by the profit of operation, which is divided among the 
enlisted men, has greatly increased and improved the messing of the sol- 
diers thereby his happiness and health by providing him necessities and 
luxuries not otherwise obtainable." Reports of this character could be mul- 
tiplied almost indefinitely; the views of nine-tenths of the officers and 
men, nearly a thousand in number, whose opinions on the canteen were 
officially asked by the War Department, in 1899, being favorable to the- 
institution as at present operated. 

The cases of delirium tremens will be accepted by all as furnishing re- 
liable data by which the gravity of the admissions for alcoholism may be 
determined. It is therefore of interest to observe that for the sevens-year 
period above noted, prior to the complete adoption of the canteen system, 
the average annual admissions for this cause, actual numbers, was 23.8; 
while for the six-year period following the general establishment of this sys- 
tem the average number of men admitted yearly for delirium tremens was 
16.6 a reduction of 31.3 per cent, in this serious class of cases. It can 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 817 



scarcely be doubted that this remarkable decrease was chiefly influenced 
by the general substitution of beer a milder beverage, which rarely pro- 
duces delirium tremens for distilled liquors, the free use of which is well 
known to result in great mental excitement and nervous exhaustion. 

It is recognized that alcoholism and insanity are closely related through 
the direct influence exerted by intoxicants in the production of mental 
aberration. Hence it is not surprising to find that the average number of 
cases of insanity, annually coming under treatment, was 35.1 for the seven- 
year period, 1885-91, prior to the complete establishment of the canteen 
system, and only 24 as an annual average for the six subsequent years, 
1892-97. These figures show a reduction in insanity amounting to 31.7 per 
cent. As to the number of days of service lost annually from insanity, the 
improvement since the institution of the canteen is even more marked. 
Figures for the years 1885 and 1886 are not available; but for the five- 
year period 1887-91 the average number of days lost was 1,563, while for 
the six years 1892-97 the service annually lost to the Government from 
this cause amounted to only 924.5 days a decrease of 40.9 per cent. 

The canteen, for the maintenance of good order in which a commis- 
sioned officer is held responsible, is an aid to discipline as well as to the 
health and morals of troops. It provides a resort which, while under 
thorough military control, offers inducements to the men to remain at 
home and spend their idle time within the limits of the post ; this condi- 
tion obviously being far preferable to the one formerly existing when ttye 
nearest and generally patronized places of amusement and refreshment 
were the grog-shops, usually with gambling-room and brothel annexes, 
which marked the limits of each military reservation. Except with the 
most dissolute class of men, the soldier is well satisfied to patronize the 
canteen to the exclusion of outside saloons ; knowing, as he does, that he 
receives good value for his money in articles of excellent quality, and fully 
appreciating that the profits of the institution ultimately accrue entirely to 
his benefit, and are not, as with the case of outside 1 establishments, di- 
verted to the advantage of others. Besides the congenial resort which it 
furnishes, the influence of the profits of the canteen in promoting content- 
ment among troops can scarcely be overestimated ; contributing, as they do, 
to improvement of the food, the attainment of wholesome amusement and 
the provision of much by which the soldier's life is made less irksome, and 
he himself rendered more efficient in the performance of his military duties. 



Year. 


Average 
strength. 


Deserted. 


Per cent, 
of 
desertions. 


Year. 


Average 
strength. 


Deserted. 


Per cent, 
of 

desertions. 


1885 


24,816 
24,365 
24,438 
24,790 
25,564 
24,930 
24,525 


2,626 
2,012 
2,525 
2,678 
2,730 
1,922 
1,398 


10.6 
8.3 
10 
11 
11 
7.7 
5.7 


1892 


24,869 
25,670 
25,661 
25,209 
23,143 
25,300 


1,410 
1,632 
926 
1,341 

s:,s 
726 


5.7 
6.3 
8.6 
5.3 

:', I 
2.9 


1886 


1893 


1887 


1894 


1888 


1895 


1889 


1896 


1890 


1897 


1891 






Average for seven years before 
canteen system was thoroughly 
established 


9.18 


Average for six years after can- 
teen system was thoroughly 
established 


4.53 







The best index of the contentment of troops is to be found in the rate of 
52 



818 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

desertions, since it is obvious that the soldier who is well satisfied with 
his lot will not endeavor to escape from the performance of his military 
obligations. That the canteen system has, from this standpoint, operated 
to the general welfare of the men is undoubted ; the desertions and per- 
centage of desertions in the regular army, from 1885 to 1897 inclusive, 
l)e ing as given in the previous table. 

From the above table, it is observed that during the first year after the 
canteen system was officially established the rate of desertions fell 30 per 
cent. , while in the next year the rate was further reduced to 48 per cent. 
For the five years previous to the establishment of the first officially recog- 
nised canteen, the number of men annually deserting from the service, per 
thousand strength, amounted to 101; while for the eight years immedi- 
ately subsequent to the institution of this system the annual number of 
desertions was reduced to 50 per thousand strength. The decrease noted 
has been practically progressive and it will be seen that for the two years 
immediately prior to the war with Spain scarcely one-fourth the number 
of men, as compared with the average for the three years immediately 
prior to the introduction of the canteen system, found the military service 
so uncongenial as to desire to escape from completing their terms of enlist- 
ment. These results are certainly most gratifying, and there is no reason 
for believing that, with the development of the canteen along its legiti- 
mate lines of growth, a still further decrease in the present small rate of 
desertions may not be confidently anticipated. 

Drunkenness is certainly prevented by the constant military super- 
vision to which the canteen is subjected. The men themselves are usually 
careful not to indulge in alcoholics to the point of inebriety Awhile such few 
individuals as are inclined to be forgetful of the dangers of excess will usually 
be restrained by companions, or by those connected with the establishment 
who have no personal interest in promoting the sale of liquor, as does the 
saloon-keeper of civil life from passing the bounds of actual intoxication. 
When such a condition has actually resulted, the drunken individual will 
rarely be left to his own devices or permitted to become offensive, and is 
usually prevailed upon by others to return to barracks without committing 
any breach of discipline. Hence brawls and disturbances with resulting 
court-martial have, since the introduction of the canteen system, become 
relatively infrequent, and pay-day, formerly synonymous with debauchery 
and riotous disturbance, is now scarcely to be distinguished by its effects 
from any other day. As illustrating the marked reduction of convictions 
for drunkenness or complications arising therefrom, since the establishment 
of the canteen system, the following figures given on the following page, 
from the reports of the judge-advocate-geueral, are of interest. 

From these figures it is evident that, coincident with the general es- 
tablishment of the canteen system throughout the army, there has occurred 
a decrease amounting to considerably more than one-half the drunkenness 
which formerly tended to the impairment of discipline, the demoralisation 
of individuals and to the occurrence of assaults, injuries and deaths. It 
is idle to deny that this excellent result has not been largely due to the 
attraction furnished by the canteen, combined with the military discipline 
which prevails in that institution and which reduces to a minimum the 
possibility of dangerous excesses. 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 819 



Year. 


Total number 

of triul* mill 
convictions 
In tin- army. 
All causes. 


Number of trials 
and convictions 
for drunkenness 
and conditions 
arising therefrom. 


Year. 


Total number 
of trials and 
"onvictions 
in the army. 
All causes. 


Number of trials 
and convictions 
for drunkenness 
and conditions 
arising therefrom. 


1888 


1 640 


:>,\-2 


1894 


1,728 


120 


1887 


1,780 


289 


1895 


1,486 


142 


1888 


1,999 


857 


1896 


1,384 


168 


1889 


1 752 


428 


1897 


1,245 


148 


1890 


1,907 


407 


Average for six 






1891 


2,000 


417 


years 1886-91. 


1,838 


872.5 


1892 


2,198 


228 


Average for six 






1893 


2,189 


163 


years 1892-97. 


1,605 


160.6 















The influence of the canteen in promoting order and contentment is 
less directly, though none the less positively, shown by the number of 
soldiers making savings-deposits with army paymasters. For the above 
periods, the figures given in the report of the paymaster-general for 1899 
show that the average number of men annually making such deposits, for 
the seven years 1885-91, was 7,273; while for the six years 1892-97 the 
annual average so depositing was 8,382 an increase of 13.3 per cent. 
Such an increase can -be interpreted only as meaning that a larger number 
of men found the service so congenial that they purposed to serve their en- 
tire enlistment without the thought of a possible desertion with its for- 
feiture of deposits. Also that a greater proportion of soldiers found that 
their pay, with the greater value given by the canteen in return for their 
money, was in excess of their immediate needs; and further, that the re- 
striction of gambling brought about by its prohibition in the canteen and 
the lessened frequenting by the men of resorts in which gaming, often of 
a dishonest character, was a prominent attraction kept the money dis- 
tributed among the many and prevented its accumulation by the few or its 
loss to outsiders. It may be also that the constant example set by the 
canteen as a successful co-operative institution was not without its effects 
in promoting soberness and steady business habits throughout the com- 
mand. A saving class of men is naturally a law-abiding class, and it 
cannot be denied that the average annual increase for the latter period 
mentioned above, of 1,109 men who had practically placed themselves 
under bonds to the Government for their good behavior and continuance 
in the service, was not without a powerful influence in raising the morale 
of the troops and promoting their efficiency. That this, indeed, was act- 
ually the case is demonstrated by the figures relating to desertions and 
court-martials already given. 

The opportunity given the men of purchasing light, nutritious lunches 
in the canteen is certainly of much benefit. Many articles of food' not 
obtainable in the company mess are thus brought within reach, and the 
monotony which often pertains to company cookery may in this manner 
be agreeably interrupted. It is probable, too, that this feature does much 
to prevent the intemperate use of alcoholics. The gastric cravings of 
hearty and idle men are thus satisfied, and a sandwich with the glass of 
beer largely decreases the desire for an additional quantity of the latter. 

It is claimed by the advocates of total abstinence that by the sale of 
beer in the canteen the health and morals of the soldiers are impaired; 



820 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

that such tacit encouragement on the part of the Government favors in- 
dulgence in alcoholics and that drinking habits are thus formed by those 
who might otherwise have remained sober men. These objections are 
purely theoretical and are at variance with facts as observed since the es- 
tablishment of the canteen. The sale of beer, under suitable restrictions, 
undoubtedly results in good rather than evil to the troops at large, and may 
justly be looked upon as a safety-valve for those accustomed to regard 
the use of a certain amount of liquor as both harmless and proper. Com- 
paratively few men to-day become inebriates from a taste for alcohol ac- 
quired in the military service; and where certain individuals may imbibe 
too much beer on pay-day, they constitute a class which, in the absence of 
a mild beverage of this character, would probably resort to stronger liquors 
frequently sophisticated outside the limits of the command. That beer- 
drinking, viewed in the abstract, is unproductive of good will be admitted 
by all; that when properly controlled, its sale in canteens, rather than 
its prohibition, redounds to the general health, morals and military effi- 
ciency, few, if any, who are conversant with the subject would attempt to 
deny. It is certainly unfortunate that the temperance element in civil life 
which is so constantly endeavoring to enact legislation against the sale, in 
the military service, of alcoholics of any character, cannot be brought to 
regard the matter from the practical rather than the sentimental aspect 
and thus assist in controlling and largely curtailing an evil which it is 
powerless to prevent, and which, if its efforts toward restrictive legislation 
should be successful, would undoubtedly be greatly increased. At present 
its efforts toward the abolition of the canteen merely oppose theory to 
facts and sentiment to statistics. 

It may here be remarked that the view is commonly entertained, by the 
civil class just mentioned, that the soldier is peculiarly dissipated above 
all others and requires special legislative measures to safeguard him against 
his weakness ; the fact being wholly ignored that the army is recruited 
from the general community and merely reflects the qualities of the latter, 
whether they be good or bad. The recruit brings with him into the ser- 
vice the result of the moral moulding to which he has been subjected dur- 
ing childhood and youth in civil life, and does not change his nature or 
moral standards with the' mere donning of the uniform. The vice of 
drunkenness is certainly neither initiated nor aggravated as a result of 
military service, and, if the opinions held by some outsiders are correct as to 
the moral conditions obtaining in the army, then the cause must be sought 
for within the social classes and the conditions of environment from which 
the human material composing the army is drawn. It is certain that 
no more drunkenness has existed in the army during the past few years 
than occurred in the corresponding classes of civil life if indeed there 
was not less. 

As already stated, it is intended that the canteen should provide a 
place in which the rational and profitable occupation of leisure time may 
be encouraged ; and it is obvious that this object is not attained by the 
mere establishment of a bar. The canteen should be fitted up like a club, 
and should possess, in addition to the bar and lunch features, facilities for 
billiards, card and game-rooms, reading-room and library. If the beer- 
selling feature of the canteen is given undue prominence, the better and 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 821 

essential character of the resort suffers. Hence the bar should merely be an 
adjunct and not constitute, as is sometimes the case, the most important 
part of the institution. No alcoholics should be sold until two hours after 
the men have breakfasted, to avoid the possibility of early morning tip- 
pling and the greater danger resulting from the use of alcohol on an empty 
stomach. Seats and tables in sufficient number should be provided, and 
drinking at the bar discouraged. . The present regulations forbidding the 
practice of treating should be strictly enforced. In the British service, at cer- 
tain stations, it is customary to limit the amount of beer sold to each man 
usually to about three pints daily and this practice might with advan- 
tage at certain times be adopted in our own service. With men of known 
tendency toward inebriety, either the quantity of alcoholics with which 
they may be furnished should be carefully defined, or they might be en- 
tirely debarred from purchasing beverages of this character. Any possible 
ill effects from the sale of light wines and beer would be largely prevented 
by the supply, gratis, of a certain amount of cheap but nutritious food 
not of a thirst-producing character to all purchasers of alcoholics. The 
use of credit, at stated periods and in limited quantities at posts where 
more restrictive measures are not in vogue, would be of benefit as affording 
less opportunity for excess at any one time. On the other hand, so much 
credit should not be allowed that the soldier would find his entire resources 
swallowed up in his indebtedness, and thus become discontented. 

The canteen should close at a comparatively early hour, so that insuffi- 
cient rest on the part of the soldier, whose day begins early, need not be 
chargeable against it. Undesirable characters, civilians of either sex, 
should be excluded from the canteen ; and every care taken to observe all 
sanitary precautions and maintain due cleanliness. Eating and drinking 
at all other places in the vicinity of the camp or garrison should be dis- 
couraged, since it is undoubtedly the case that infectious diseases are often 
dispersed through the uncleanly methods of irresponsible venders of articles 
of food, alcoholics and temperance drinks. Particularly is this the case 
in the relation of water-borne diseases to non-alcoholic beverages to 
which class of drinks many outbreaks of cholera and typhoid fever have 
been justly attributed. Coffee should be kept on hand and sold at cost 
rates. In the tropics, the establishment of aerated-water machines in 
connection with the canteen would often be of advantage ; waters of this 
character being both wholesome, cheap and popular. 

At present there is a strong tendency by some officers to utilize the 
canteen and stimulate the sale of beer solely as a means of increasing 
the company funds. This should be strongly opposed, and the profits of 
the institution regarded as the happy result rather than the cause of its 
existence. It would be much to the advantage of troops if the allotment 
to company funds was officially limited to fifty per cent, of the profits ; 
twenty-five per cent, being expended to further athletic sports and amuse- 
ments among the men and the remainder to be reserved as a contingent 
fund for fixtures, improvements, insurance and similar purposes. 

In general, the regulations for the government of the canteen, while 
rational and comprehensive, should not be too severe, lest the popularity 
and hence the value of the resort be impaired. This point requires the 
exercise of much discretion. It should be understood that the institution, 



822 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

while naturally a great benefit, may become a positive evil to troops if the 
otlicer in charge is remiss in his obligations, indifferent or incompetent. 

Temperance Clubs. In the British service in India, an attempt is 
being made to diminish drunkenness among troops by the substitution of 
coffee-houses for the canteen. While libraries, recreation rooms, workshops, 
gardens and cricket-grounds had been established for many years, it was 
not until 1887 that a further development was made by bringing together 
the regimental and company clubs and forming them into what is now 
known as the "regimental institute." The aim and object of these "in- 
stitutes " are to improve the social condition of the soldier and to reduce in- 
temperance by the provision of such reasonable comfort and physical as 
well as mental recreation as to make them a center of attraction and 
lessen the habit of seeking entertainment elsewhere. This plan has now 
been put into operation in nearly every regiment in India. As to its 
effects, it was reported by Lord Roberts, in 1890, that an improvement 
following its introduction was apparent, as was shown by the following 
figures for the troops in Bengal : 





1888. 


1889. 


Decrease. 


Totul number of men punished per cent 


2.34 


2.01 


0.33 


Number of cnsesof insubordination with violence 


307 


257 


50 


Number of cases of drunkenness tried by court-martial. 
Number of men sentenced to imprisonment with hard 
labor . 


149 
957 


98 
781 


51 
176 


Number of men discharged with ignominy 


110 


79 


31 











In the Bombay forces, the results are equally satisfactory but the con- 
ditions were reversed with troops in the Madras Presidency. Put in the 
most appreciable form, the following figures give all the convictions by 
court-martial, as compared with the preceding year : In Bengal the num- 
ber of courts-martial decreased by 14.11 per cent. In Madras the number 
of courts-martial increased by 1.22 per cent. In Bombay the number of 
court-martials decreased by 1.7.29 per cent. 

Should the total-abstinence element of the country succeed in abolish- 
ing the canteen, as at present existing, it would seem as if the establish- 
ment of such a central recreation-room and temperance club would be advis- 
able; although that such an institution can take the place of the canteen , 
in the promotion of temperance among the large class of soldiers who enjoy 
an occasional glass of beer, cannot for a moment be admitted. Such men 
would seek their beer outside the limits of the reservation, in the resorts 
which would spring up like mushrooms were the canteen abolished. There 
can be no doubt that the aggregation of a number of means of amusement 
under one roof does much to increase the individual value of each. 



VENEREAL DISEASE. 



Occurrence. Of all the causes by which the soldier is brought in 
sick-report, in time of peace, venereal disease is of the most importance and 
affects his efficiency to the greatest extent ; this being particularly the case 
in our own service as compared with most foreign armies. 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 823 



The following table shows the ratio of admissions, per 1,000 strength, 
for all forms of venereal disease in the principal armies of the world, 
largely compiled from official figures furnished the commission lately in- 
vestigating the prevalence of venereal affections in the British army. 







iS 


* 






M 




W 


GRKAT 1 


1R1TAIN. 


Year. 


I 


V 

O 


is 


1 



K 

| 


ii 
s 


I 

"i 


"S S 
~- i 


Home 

stations. 


India 
stations. 


1872 






62 










109.3 


202.2 


191.0 


1878 






56 










101.7 


167.6 


181.6 


1874 




38.4* 


53 










92.5 


145.7 


207.5 


1875 




31 6 


59 










110.4 


139.4 


213.5 


1876 


57 


28.8 


65.8 










107.6 


146.5 


208.5 


1877 


57 8 


30 


669 










97.7 


158.2 


224.4 


1878 


59 7 


36 


75 41 










97 8 


175 5 


291 6 


1879 


63 7 


38 5 


81.4 










95.1 


179.5 


253.8 


1880 


65 8 


349 


75 7 










96.7 


245.9 


249 


1881 . ... 


606 


392 


79 










91.8 


245.5 


259.6 


1882 


62 


41 


73.7 










78.4 


246 


265.5 


1883 


58 9 


38 2 


73 3 










76.6 


260 


271.3 


1884 


52 1 


34 5 


735 










75 


270.7 


293.5 


1885 


50 7 


32 6 


69 










79.6 


275.4 


342.6 


1886 
1887 


49.6 
51.6 


29.7 
28.6 


65.8 
64.4 




47.5 




39.3 


71.9 
74.87 


267.1 
252.9 


385.8 
361.4 


1888 


46.7 


26.3 


65.4 


42.4 


76. 51 




29.7 


80.88 


224.5 


872.2 


1889 


45.8 


26.7 


65.3 


40.7 


66.6 




24.7 


84.66 


212.1 


481.5 


1890 


43.8 


26.7 


65.4 


43 


73.4 


96 


27.3 


75.22 


212.4 


503.6 


1891 


43.7 


27.2 


63.7 


41.5 


71.5 


60.4 


37.5 


72.46 


197.4 


400.7 


1892 


44 


27.9 


61.6 


44.6 


69 


53.1 


86 


76.78 


201.2 


409.9 


1893 


42.8 




64.5 


43.1 


93.3 


45.8 




73.08 


194.6 


466 


1894 


40.9 




64.8 


39.5 


92 


54.3 




80.4 


182.4 


511.4 


1895 






61 


36 


84.8 


48.1 




73.7 


173.8 


522.3 

























* In the case of Germany, 1873-74, 1874-75, and so on. 
f Bosnia and Herzegovina were occupied in this year. 
t Compulsory examination of prostitutes abandoned. 

Among European armies, that of Germany has by far the lowest rate 
for venereal disease. Russia and France come next, then Austria-Hungary, 
then the troops of Holland serving at the home stations, then Italy. No 
army included in the above comparison, except that of Great Britain, has 
as high a rate as that shown for the United States forces; and with us,, 
moreover, the actual prevalence of venereal disease is probably greater than 
the returns indicate, through the concealment and self-treatment so often 
practiced by the men in the milder cases, by the use of patent medicines. 
The small amount of disease of this character in the army of Japan is notice- 
able. In all the above armies, with the exception of those of Great Britain 
and the United States, some special regulations are in force for preventing 
the spread of venereal affections. These generally consist of weekly or 
fortnightly examinations of the men for the detection of venereal disease 
non-commissioned officers and married men being in some cases exempted 
and registration and periodical examination of all women ascertained to be 
leading a life of prostitution, with compulsory isolation of such as are found 
to be diseased. In the Italian army, regulations of this latter kind were 
revoked in 1888. 

In the case of most of the armies mentioned above, the comparison with 
respect to various forms of venereal disease may be carried into further de- 
tail, as follows : 



824 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

MEAN ANNUAL ADMISSION RATE, FEU 1,000 STRENGTH, FOR THE THREE YEARS 1890-92. 





Germany. 


i 



Russia. 


_&-, 


11 

SI 


DUTCH TROOPS. 


BRITISH TROOPS. 


Home 
stations. 


East 
Indies. 


Home 
stations. 


In 
India. 


Primary and secondary 
syphilis 


5.5 
21.8 


9 
84.9 


13.1 
29.9 


13.9 
57.4 


16.83 
57.96 


14.8 
55 


47.0 

408.6 


101.7 
101.9 


175.4 
262.6 


All other venereal dis- 
eases 





II 



In these years, it is apparent that the German army had scarcely more 
than one thirty-second, and no European army had as much as one-eleventh 
of flie amount of syphilis as devastated the British troops in India. The 

Dutch troops in the East 
Indies, with an exceed- 
ingly high rate of venereal 
disease generally, did not 
suffer from syphilis one- 
third as much as did the 
British soldiers serving in 
India where the rate has, 
moreover, risen rapidly 
since the period included 
in the above comparison, 
while in the Dutch East 
Indies it has materially de- 
clined. The figures with 
regard to syphilis show 
much less of this serious 
affection among European 
armies, excluding England, 
than exists among our 
own military forces. 

Among venereal dis- 
eases, syphilis is of partic- 
ular importance as direct- 
ly influencing the military 
efficiency of an army. 
This affection, even at its 
best, seriously undermines 
the constitution and ren- 
ders the soldier at all times 
less resistant to invasion 
by acute disease and to a 
fatal termination. Even 
in such cases as are ulti- 
mately returned to duty, 
the men have frequently 
been in hospital for con- 
siderable periods and are 



KJ 

10 10 aO 40 60 


















































































































































90 4 

10SOS0406080708090 




























































































































































. 


























































































8 
2 

8 
S 
9 
8 
8 






























































































































































































































































8 
2 

8 
S 

9 
8 

O 










































































































































































































































































8 

- 

8 

S 

9 
8 

e 




























































































































































































































































































































UNITED ITATEa. 


I OERMANV. 


1 JAPAN. L 


1 RUSSIA. - 


1 FRANCE. L 


1 AUSTRIA-HUNOARY. L 


1 

i 
| 




ul 

1 


. 




UJ 


EAST INDIES. L 


N viiua 


QN>mOH 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 825 



prone to later manifestations from a temporarily latent infection. In such 
instances, the state has not only paid the man for the time he was unfitted 
for duty but receives back a dfcmbtfully efficient soldier, extremely liable 
to break down under the fatigue and privations of field service. 

The prevalence of syphilis in the United States army, during thirty 
years of peace, is shown by the following figures : 



Year. 


Admissions to 
hospital, per 
1, 000 strength. 


Year. 


Admissions to 
hospital, per 
1,000 strength. 


Year. 


Admissions to 
hospital, per 
1.000 strength. 


1868 . 


105 


1878 


47.7 


1888 


22 2 


1869 


97 


1879 


44.3 


1889 


22 


1870 


694 


1880 


49.4 


1890 


19 7 


1871 


67.7 


1881 


47.6 


1891 


14.7 


1872 


60.3 


1882 


40.1 


1892 


16 


1873 


55 7 


1883 


35.6 


1893 


136 


1874 


47.3 


1884 


29.8 


1894 


14.1 


1875 


60 


1885 


24.8 


1895 


11 1 


1876 


596 


1886 


22.3 


1896 


109 


1877 


50 


1887 


22.9 


1897 


12 















During the year 1898, the admissions for this disease were only 10 per 
thousand; in 1899, they were 14.38 for the tropical islands and 13.49 for 
troops serving in the United States. As is seen by the above figures, 
syphilis has steadily diminished since the Civil War down to the year 1898 
and to one-tenth of the amount existing in 1868. While it is probable 
that a certain proportion of this reduction is due to a more accurate differ- 
entiation between the hard and soft venereal sores, the gratifying fact never- 
theless remains that the reduction in syphilis among our soldiers has not 
only been great but steadily progressive. 

While in the various armies on the European continent the tendency 
is rather toward a reduction than an increase of syphilitic infection, in the 
British army at home and particularly among the British troops in India 
a serious feature of recent years has been the disproportionately great in- 
crease in the amount of primary and secondary forms of this disease. 
This growth was not great prior to 1884, when the Contagious Diseases 
act was revoked, but since that time the advance has been appalling. 
In the following tables, the rapid development of syphilitic disease among 
the British troops in India is well shown; figures for primary syphilis 
not being given for the period prior to 1887, as the hard chancre was not 
differentiated from the non-syphilitic sore until that year and then only 
in part. 

SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 
(Ratio of admission per 1,000 strength.) 



Year. 


Admissions. 


Year. 


Admissions. 


Year. 


Admissions. 


1M72 


22.4 


1878 


J-J 1 


1884 


24.4 


1873 :.. 


20.4 


1879 


24.1 


Mean for years 




1874 


25.2 


1880 


28 


1872-84 


23.3 


1875 


-,>:> 1 


1881 


23.1 


1885 


28.7 


1876 


239 


1882 


23 2 


1886 


:;:; :: 


1877 


22.1 


1888 


j:5 :. 


1887 


29.4 















826 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Year. 


Primary 
syphilis. 


Secondary 
syphilis. 


Year. 


Primary 
syphilis. 


Secondary 

.syphilis. 




Year. 


Primary 

syphilis. 


Secondary 

syphilis. 


1887 

IHHS 


75.8 

72 1 


29.4 
32.4 


1890 
1891 


135.6 
104 


66.3 
60 


1893. . . . 
1894. . . . 


129.3 
173 


61.6 
74.6 


1889 


1343 


51.2 


1892 


102.6 


57.8 


1895. . . . 


174.1 


84.9 





















In 1893, from the British troops in India, venereal disease of all forms 
caused 466 admissions per 1,000 strength. No less than 2,619 men, or 
more than the equivalent of two regiments, were constantly in hospital 
throughout the year from this cause. Each case required treatment for 
thirty days, and" the rate for each soldier of the entire army was twelve 
days lost. The admissions for syphilis in all its stages were 275 per 
1,000. Of 70,642 British soldiers. serving in India on the 15th of July, 
1S04, 19,892, or 28 per cent., had been admitted to hospital for syphilis 
since their arrival in India. Only 26,247 men, or 37 per cent., had 
never suffered in or out of India from any venereal disease. Of the 13,- 
000 soldiers who returned to England from India in 1894, over 60 per 
cent, are reported as having suffered from some form of venereal infection. 
In 1895, an average of 45 men out of every 1,000 were constantly in hos- 
pital for venereal disease. These figures, however, by no means represent 
the total amount of inefficiency due to this cause. Many cases of secon- 
dary syphilis, in the last few years, have been treated in the British service 
by hypodermatic injection of mercury, without admission to hospital, and 
do not, therefore, figure in the returns; while a large number of men who 
are nominally cured are only fit for light duty under peace conditions. 
Among 5,822 men detailed for field service with the Chitral relief force, 
462, or nearly 8 per cent., had to be rejected for venereal disease; 279 
more, or an additional 4.5 per cent., had subsequently to be transferred 
from the field hospitals to the base for the same cause. The report of 
the Departmental Committee says: "In 1895, venereal disease attacked 
the British troops hi India to an unprecedented extent. Out of the enor- 
mous total of 522 cases of venereal per 1,000 troops, syphilis contributed 
nearly one-half, i.e., 259 cases per 1,000; a figure many times greater 
than the highest of which we can find any record in the statistics of con- 
tinental armies, for recent years, either at home or abroad. Venereal disease 
caused more than one-third the total amount of sickness, the constant dis- 
ablement of 3,200 men out of a total force of 71,000 and a vast amount of 
partial disability and unfitness for any but routine duties." Concerning 
the campaign in India in 1897, it is stated that out of an actual strength 
of 16,600 British troops, 1,481, or nearly 7 per cent., were found to be 
disqualified for service through venereal disease. 

It is probable that there is less syphilis among our troops than exists 
among the unmarried male civilians of the same class, since those soldiers 
who are recognized as infected are promptly discharged from the military 
service in nearly all instances. For the same reason, syphilis does not 
figure to any extent in the death rate. Among such few affected indi- 
viduals as may be retained in the service, the effects of syphilitic infection 
are slow and insidious, and manifest themselves in unfavorably modifying 
other affections. Thus such affections as Bright' s disease, cirrhosis of the 
liver and amyloid degeneration are undoubtedly largely induced by it. 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 827 



Gonorrhoea, in contradiction to syphilis, has been steadily on the in- 
crease iii our service for the past fifteen years ; thus showing that there has 
been no improvement in the morals of the United States soldier as regards 
the maintenance of chastity. In 1885, the admission rate was 37.76 per 
1,000 strength, while in 1897 the rate was 56.21 per thousand. For the 
year 1896, the number constantly sick from this cause in the British ser- 
vice was 9.15 per thousand as compared with 3.22 in the United States 
army for the same period. In 1890, the admissions in the French army 
for gonorrhoea, per 1,000 strength, were 27.9. 

Causes Affecting the Prevalence of Venereal Disease. The in- 
fluence exerted by race upon the prevalence of venereal infections is not, 
in general, sufficiently appreciated. A marked difference in this respect 
exists even among the various armies of Europe, where similar measures of 
prophylaxis are employed ; but it is when the rates for Asiatic forces are 
compared with those for white troops, serving under the same conditions, 
that the greatest difference is observed, and particularly so with reference 
to syphilis. It is certainly true that this disease, introduced compara- 
tively recently among the Caucasian and negro races, commits far greater 
ravages among those in which it has not long prevailed, than among peoples 
who have presumably acquired a comparative immunity to the affection, 
transmitted through a syphilized ancestry extending through scores of gen- 
erations. It appears to be true, also, that certain races possess in large 
degree peculiar powers of resistance to gonorrhceal infection, a quality long 
since demonstrated to exist in certain individuals of even the most suscep- 
tible peoples. 

The following table, taken from the report of the commission investi- 
gating the prevalence of venereal diseases among the British troops in 
India, shows the great difference in the admission rates for syphilis and 
all venereal affections among Europeans and Asiatics, per thousand of 
strength. 



Tear. 


ARMY IN THE DI'TCH EAST INDIES. 


ARMY IN BRITISH INDIA. 


Dutch troops. 


Native troops. 


British Troops. 


Native Troops. 


00 


ll 


Syphilis. 


i 


Syphilis. 


* s !l 


Syphilis. 


=|| 


1890 


58.9 
43 
44 
40 
87 


483.9 
442 
440.9 
870 
416 


11.0 
11.6 
9.7 
8 
7.8 


248.0 
243.6 
223.5 
218 
191.8 


201.9 
164 
160.4 
190.9 
247.6 


503.6 
400.7 
409.9 
466 
511.4 


18.2 
16.3 
17.1 
17.9 
17.7 


41.1 
37.9 
39.6 
86.4 
82.8 


1891 


1892 


18\)8 


1894 


Mean for five years . . 


43.6 


424.7 


9.6 


225 


195 


458.8 


17.4 


87.5 



In the Dutch East Indies, the Asiatic troops suffer from all venereal 
diseases but one-half as much, and from syphilis about one-fifth as much, 
as do the Europeans. In the British army in India, the native troops are 
not affected with venereal diseasee one-twelfth as much, nor from syphilis 
one-eleventh as much, as are the white troops. It is probable that, in* 
India, caste feeling helps to deter the native soldier, to some extent, from 



828 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

consorting with the lowest and most dangerous class of prostitutes but 
his remarkable freedom from venereal infections can be satisfactorily ex- 
plained only on the ground of racial insusceptibility. It is of interest to 
note that while the admission rate for British troops in India has more 
than doubled since 1881 in respect to venereal disease, among the native 
troops there has been no appreciable increase during this period. An 
inference which may be legitimately drawn from this fact is that venereal 
disease has not increased to any remarkable extent among the loose women 
of the country generally, but that among the class with whom the British 
soldier associates there has been an increase out of all proportion to their 
numbers, directly as a result of such relations both the native women and 
the British soldiers presenting rates far in excess of their racial normals. 
As between whites and negroes, the greater resistance to venereal diseases 
lies with the former, probably through a longer exposure to the processes 
of immunization through heredity. Comparative figures for these two 
classes in our own service, for all venereal diseases, are as follows : 



Year. 


Admission 
rate per 1,000 
strength, 
whiles. 


Admission 
rate per 1,000 
strength, 
colored. 


Year. 


Admission 
rate per 1,000 
strength, 
whites. 


Admission 
rate per 1,000 
strength, 
colored. 


1884 


75.00 


101.00 


1892 


75.71 


86.94 


1885 


80 


76 


1893 


74.94 


49 


1886. 


No figures. 


No figures. 


1894 


82.21 


47.46 


1887 


72 13 


95.98 


1895 


75.57 


52.26 


1888 


7808 


98.51 


1896 


80.04 


56.53 


1889 


8486 


82.75 


1897 


81.80 


114.60 


1890. 


72 02 


105.39 


1898 


78.48 


149.58 


1891 .... 


70.64 


80.18 


1899 


128.59 


195.92 















No satisfactory explanation for the sudden and marked reduction in the 
above admission rates for the colored troops during the period 1893-96 can 
be offered. The experience of the British in the West Indies shows a 
higher percentage of venereal infections among the colored troops than 
among white soldiers syphilis being more than twice as common among 
the former as among the latter. This difference with respect to syphilis 
holds good, also, in our own service ; the admission rates for the several 
classes of venereal disease, per thousand of each class, being as follows : 



Year. 


WHITE TROOPS. 


COLORED TROOPS. 


Syphilis. 


Gonorrhoea. 


Chancroid. 


Syphilis. 


Gonorrhosa. 


Chancroid. 


1896 


9.39 
13.39 


51.18 
78.16 


17.91 
37.04 


28.44 
22.43 


67.29 
109.82 


54.05 
63.67 


1899 





A second point well worthy of careful consideration is found in the 
fact that venereal infection, particularly that of a syphilitic nature, appears 
to take place more certainly, and to assume a much more severe character, 
when relations are entered into between individuals of different racial 
characteristics than when both are of the same nationality ; the aliens suf- 
fering, in this respect, to a greater degree than the resident population. 
Troops quartered among a foreign but not hostile population almost inva- 
riably suffer worse in respect to venereal diseases than do those at home. 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 829 



In the Austrian army, a large increase in affections of this character fol- 
lowed the occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878; the French 
troops in Algeria are more affected with venereal diseases than those in 
France, and the same is true to a marked degree in the case of the British 
troops in India and that of the Dutch in Java. The proportion of venereal 
disease is higher among our troops outside the limits of the United States 
than among those serving at home stations. In speaking of the native 
troops stationed in Bengal, it has been said that the "Gurkhas, being 
foreigners, have higher rates (for venereal disease) than other native troops." 
These conditions, however, do not obtain when a command is moving or 
during campaign. 

RELATIVE AMOUNT OF VENEREAL DISEASE AMONG FRENCH TROOPS IN FRANCE 

AND IN ALGERIA. 
(Ratio of admissions, per 1,000 strength.) 



Year. 


FRENCH TROOPS AT HOME STATIONS. 


FRENCH TROOPS IN ALGERIA. 


Syphilis. 


02 

5e 

t> t- 


Gon- 

orrhtea. 


i 


x 

1 


(=2 
3 
eg 
B 


Gon- 
orrhtra. 


H 


1892. . 


8.3 
8.4 
7.4 


5.6 
5.8 
5.2 


27.4 
25.3 
23.5 


41.3 
39.5 
36.1 


15.0 
15 
13.2 


11.9 
12.1 
11.4 


28.6 
82.5 
26.6 


55.5 
60.6 
'51.2 


1898 


1894 





RELATIVE AMOUNT OF VENEREAL DISEASE AMONG BRITISH TROOPS AT THE HOME 

STATIONS AND IN INDIA. 
(Admissions, per 1,000 strength, for the decade 1887-96.) 



Disease. 


British army at 
home stations. 


British army in 
India. 


Primary syphilis 


59.2 


127.5 


Secondary syphilis 


35.9 


62.2 


Gonorrhoea 


86.2 


176.3 









RELATIVE AMOUNT OF VENEREAL DISEASE AMONG DUTCH TROOPS AT HOME AND 

IN THE EAST INDIES. 
(Ratio of admissions, per 1,000 strength.) 





HUMK. 






I 


uropeans 


, 




Asiatics. 




Year. 


Syphilis. 


-. en 

- - i 

111 


I 


Syphilis. 


Other 
venereal 
diseases. 


I 


Syphilis. 


Other 
venereal 

AMMO, 


H 


1885 


1 






68.9 


335.0 


893.9 


15.7 


188.0 


203.7 


1886 








60 


411 


171 


15 


148 


158 


1887 


w 

1 No 


return 




61.8 


447.7 


509.5 


16.8 


221 


287.3 


1888 


1 


eseyca 




53 


3H4 


487 


12.9 


203 


215.9 


1HH9 


J 






49.8 


417.6 


467.4 


12.6 


254 


26(5.6 


1890 


18 


88 


in; 


58.9 


430 


483.9 


11 


287 


248 


1891 


18 


42.4 


'60.4 


48 


399 


442 


11.6 


282 


243.6 


1892 


13.4 


39.7 


53.1 


44 


896.9 


440.9 


9.7 


213.8 


j-j:i .- 


1893 


10.8 


So 


45.8 


40 


830 


870 


8 


210 


218 


1894 


18.3 


41 


M.I 


87 


379 


416 


7.8 


184 


191.8 























ABROAD. 



Climate also appears to influence the prevalence of venereal as well as 
its intensity and character; a tropical climate appearing to lower the vital 



830 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

resistance as regards invasion by venereal infection, to induce an affection of 
unusually severe type, and, in syphilis, to cause the determination of super- 
ficial rather than deep-seated lesions. The amount of venereal disease 
among troops bears a close relation to the age of the soldiers; young men, 
and particularly young recruits, being especially liable to such diseases. This 
is very strikingly shown in the following table, Vhich gives the admissions 
for venereal affections in our service, divided according to age, per thousand 
of each class, for the seven-year period 1890-96. 





. 


. 


1 s * 




rf 


. 


ii 


Age. 


"3 


I- 3 


^ * 1 


Age. 


a 





< 1 1 




& 

CO 





js 




1 


o 


la 


19 and under. . . . 


22.25 


128.50 


193.82 


35 to 39 inclusive 


8.17 


10.20 


24.59 


20 to 24 inclusive 


22.09 


89.57 


145.28 


40 to 44 


5.01 


4.22 


12.97 


2.jto29 


16.88 


42.34 


81.32 


45 to 49 


2.59 


3.67 


8.85 


30 to 34 


11.21 


. 21.15 


45.75 











The proportion of married soldiers naturally exerts a marked influence 
on the prevalence of venereal affections; figures for the British army in 
India, for the six years 1867-72, showing that the percentage of admis- 
sions for venereal disease among married men was only one-fiftieth of the 
percentage for the unmarried. As might have been expected, recent in- 
vestigations in the British service in India show that cases of venereal dis- 
ease are much less numerous among abstainers than among those habituated 
to the use of alcoholics. In the French army, it has been noted in some 
instances that the amount of venereal disease in a garrison varied directly 
with the amount of clandestine prostitution ; the prevalence of these affec- 
tions varying directly with the rigor with which the surveillance of prosti- 
tutes was maintained. According to Von Tophy, the relative venereal 
morbidity in the armies of Austria, Germany, France and Italy bears a close 
relationship to the prevalence of this class of diseases among the civilians 
in the district in which they are quartered ; whence he believes that all 
measures for the restriction of the disease should primarily be applied to 
the civil population. The amount of venereal disease is greatly influenced, 
according to Jeannel, by the virulence of the type of the affection as found 
in foreign countries and by the facility of communication with the civil 
classes. Coustan states that in the French army the proportion of venereal 
disease is very much greater among the troops stationed in krge cities 
than in those in country districts or near small towns. 

Prevention of Venereal Diseases. This depends upon the offi- 
cial application of restrictive measures to the prostitute and to the sol- 
dier, together with the effort to raise the moral standard of troops by 
other than coercive means. Of these, the control of prostitution is the 
most important, for it is obvious that an infected prostitute may transmit 
disease to a large number of men in a relatively short space of time. . 

In the small army of the United Stales, containing, as it has in the 
past, a relatively krge proportion of married soldiers and scattered in 
small detachments over a vast territory, the necessity for the sanitary 
regulation of prostitution has not been forced upon the attention of the 
military authorities; and the execution of proper measures would, in- 
deed, have been impracticable at home stations. With the altered con- 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 831 

ditions and changed moral environment which have, however, resulted 
from recent acquisition of foreign territory and contact with alien races, 
the subject at once attains a vast importance assuming that the experience 
of the United States as regards the occurrence of venereal disease among 
troops will ultimately not greatly differ in this respect from that of Eng- 
land, France, Holland and other countries holding tropical colonies. That 
this country may profit in the future from their mistakes of the past, and 
treat this matter forcefully, practically and with an absence of sentiment 
is much to be desired, but, in view of the varying political conditions 
controlling the policy of a republican form of government, a result which 
is scarcely to be anticipated. It should be emphasized, however, that in 
the case of no other contagious disease is the affected individual, in this 
country, permitted to remain a menace to the public health and welfare ; 
and, aside from that false modesty which refuses frankly to admit and 
openly to limit and control an evil the existence of which it secretly deplores, 
there is no reason why venereal disease, so far-reaching in its effects and 
so often transmitted to the innocent and to future generations, should not 
be subjected to the same official control as is required in the case of any 
other communicable disease of grave character. That the spread of any 
other contagious disease may be prevented by the application of suitable 
measures to the affected individual will readily be admitted ; that this rule 
applies equally in the case of venereal infections is not only apparent in 
theory but has been demonstrated in practice. 

Since no systematic effort has been officially made, within the limits of 
the United States, to decrease venereal disease in the military service by 
the control of prostitution save local attempts at Nashville and Memphis 
during the Civil War it is necessary to turn for information on this 
subject to other nations, whose abundant experience has demonstrated 
the efficiency of this practice. For many years, the fact has been 
officially recognized in nearly all European countries that prostitution 
is ^e chief means by which venereal disease is propagated, and meas- 
ures have been employed to restrict its spread by this agency. The 
official control of prostitution as a lesser evil, in diminishing the results 
of deplorable though none the less ineradicable vice, is no new thing. 
Long ago the necessity for some such action was realized if a gen- 
eral syphilitic taint throughout the population was to be averted; and 
harsh measures in general keeping with the spirit of the times were in- 
stituted. Thus at Mayence, as long ago as 1497, a prostitute who was 
shown to have consorted with a syphilitic man, or was herself syphilitic, 
was branded on the forehead so that she might be avoided. In Berlin, in 
the year 1700, a law was passed placing all public women under police 
control, requiring them to be examined as to their freedom from venereal 
infection at least every two weeks and compelling such as were found 
infected to enter hospital for treatment. A similar law was passed in 
France shortly before the French Kevolution ; the registration of each pros- 
titute with the police of the district in which she lived being also required. 
Belgium passed a similar law in 1836; Russia in 1843. England passed 
such an act in 1864 and repealed it in 1888. Italy repealed a similar law 
in the same year, largely as a result of English influences. Denmark, Nor- 
way and Sweden rigidly control prostitution ; Spain and Roumania officially 



832 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

regulate it, but its supervision aud control are not as rigorous as in some 
other countries. Considering the question of the official control of prosti- 
tution from the general standpoint, as illustrated by these countries, it 
may be said that the prevalence of venereal disease is least where sanitary 
measures are most thoroughly enforced, progressively greater with greater 
laxity in their administration and greatest where no effort is made Coward 
its control. To demonstrate these points, it is only necessary to gknce at 
the table already given, showing the distribution of venereal disease among 
the principal armies of the world, and to compare the rates of such armies 
as those of Germany, Kussia and France with those of Italy, Great Britain, 
Holland and our own service. The army of Japan may fairly be left out of 
consideration, since these troops are not of the white race, and as already 
pointed out, apparently possess that relative immunity to venereal diseases, 
particularly syphilis, which appears to be common to Asiatic peoples. 

It is, of course, impossible fully to discuss in a work of this character 
the influence which the official regulation of prostitution has had upon the 
army of each individual nation concerned, but a consideration of the re- 
sults in the British army is highly instructive and may be accepted as 
being fairly typical of the whole. On examining the figures given in the 
British Army Medical Department Report for 1883, as illustrating the in- 
fluence of restrictive legislation in England upon the prevalence of vene- 
real disease, the point which chiefly attracts the attention is the enormous 
difference between the number of admissions for primary syphilis among 
troops in the. districts within which prostitution was under official control, 
as compared with the admissions in the stations not under the Contagious 
Diseases act. This is well shown in the following table, which covers the 
period 1870-82. 



Fourteen stations, under the act. 

Average strength 47,394 

Total admissions for primary 

syphilis during period 31,105 



Fourteen stations, not under the act. 

Average strength 19,218 

Total admissions for primary 
syphilis during period 29,582 



If these figures be compared, it is observed that if the ratio of admissions 
in the subjected stations had been the same as for those not under the act, 
the total admissions for primary syphilis would have been. 72,952. It is 
thus obvious that 41,848 men were prevented from contracting the worst 
form of venereal disease, in this one group of stations, owing to the en- 
forcement of the provisions of the Contagious Diseases act. The number 
of men constantly in hospital for primary syphilis was only 3.97 per 1,000 
in the group under the act, while in the group where restrictive measures 
were not in force it was 9.16 per 1,000. In May, 1883, the act was 
practically done away with, the compulsory examination of prostitutes 
having then ceased ; and the following figures are of interest as showing 
the disastrous results of interfering with such an essential regulation : 

SOLDIERS CONSTANTLY IN HOSPITAL, PER 1,000 STRENGTH, FOR PRIMARY SYPHILIS. 



Year or Period. 


Group of stations under 
the act. 


Group of stations not 
under the act. 


1870-82.. 


8 97 


9 16 


1888 


8 66 ) Act 


15 81 


1884 


12 41 \ modified 


14 01 









HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 833 
ADMISSIONS TO HOSPITAL, PER 1,000 STRENGTH, FOR PRIMARY SYPHILIS. 



Year or Period. 


Group of stations under 
the act. 


Group of stations not 
under the act. 


1870-82. . 


50 


118 


1888 


110 | Act 


188 


1884 


188 j modified. 


160 









Browning compares the admissions for primary syphilis at the two 
stations of Chatham-Sheerness and London, for the year 1875; one sub- 
jected to and the second not under the act, the average strength of the 
garrison of each being about 4,000 men. For the former station, the ad- 
missions for this cause were only 17 per 1,000 for the year mentioned, 
while for London the admissions were 187 per 1,000. For every man ad- 
mitted for this cause at Chatham-Sheerness, eleven were admitted during 
the year at London. Before the act came into force, the admissions at 
Chatham-Sheerness were 94 per 1,000 (average of period 1860-66), while 
from 1867 to 1882 the rate was reduced to 49 per 1,000. On abolishing 
the compulsory examination of prostitutes, the ratio of admissions for pri- 
mary syphilis rose at Chatham-Sheerness, in 1884, to 141 per 1,000, or 
nearly equal to the rate for London. 

The effect of the Contagious Diseases act in the United Kingdom on 
the number of admissions for gonorrhoea was not so marked as in the case 
of syphilis; the ratio of admissions for this disease being 84 per 1,000 in 
the subjected group, while in the stations not under the act the ratio 
was 105 per 1,000. It is computed, however, that the act prevented 
about 12,000 cases of gonorrhoea, during the period 1870-82, among the 
troops at the fourteen stations where the regulations were in force. 

Previous to 1885, in the British service in India, lock -hospitals were 
maintained for the treatment of women suffering from venereal diseases. 
All prostitutes living in cantonments were registered and subjected to fre- 
quent medical examination. In many cases, special quarters were allotted to 
them in regimental or cantonment bazaars and women evading the rules 
were subject to ejectment from the military limits. In 1885, the Indian 
governmental authorities decided that a certain number of these hospitals 
should be closed, with a view to comparison of the results of these stations 
and at protected stations; the results obtained in 1887 showing that there 
had been a marked and progressive increase of venereal affections where 
the lock-hospitals had been closed, while the rates of disease compared 
most unfavorably with the rates at the stations at which these institutions 
had been maintained. As a result of this comparison, the hospitals pre- 
viously closed were directed to be re-opened ; but in 1888 all official con- 
trol over prostitution in India was abolished by act of Parliament. Since 
1887, the last full year of the protective system, there has been the enor- 
mous advance of primary syphilitic disease of 137 per cent, and of second- 
ary disease of 188 per cent. ; a progressive severity of cases expressed by 
an average stay in hospital of 31.5 days in 1895 as compared with 26 in 
1887 ; and a temporary inefficiency of the force exemplified by the fact that 
during the year 1895, out of 68,331 men, there were 36,681 in hospital 
for the above average period, of whom 22,702 were suffering from syphilis. 
53 



834 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

The number of men constantly non-effective as a result of venereal disease 
was 31,664; while the invaliding from this cause advanced from 1.13 per 
cent, under restrictive measures to 5 per cent, in 1895. Concerning the 
prevalence of venereal disease in 1894-95, the army sanitary commission 
wrote: "The results of experience in India since 1885, when a number of 
lock-hospitals were closed, and in subsequent years when all restrictive 



190. 



J894 



rate 



\/ 



tan 



1813 



J6.VJ 



Fio. 389. Chart Showing the Influence of Laws Controlling and Regulating Prostitution in Bohllkhand 
District, India, and Cape Town, South Africa, upon the Admissions, per 1,000 Strength, for Primary and 
Secondary Syphilis from the British Troops Stationed at these Points. (After Browning.) 

Black line, Cape Town ; dotted line, Rohilkhand. 

Cape Town, without Regulations, 1884-1888, average 371. 

Rohilkhand, " 1889-1898, " 370. 

Rohilkhand, with 1884-1888, " 132. 

Cape Town, ' 1889-1897, " 168. 

measures were gradually removed, show that a progressive increase of vene- 
real diseases has taken place among the British troops serving in India ; 
and there is unfortunately no assurance that this increase has reached its 
limits." 

In the year 1889, a Contagious Disease act was brought into force at 
Cape Town, South Africa, and at the same time all regulations for check- 
ing the spread of venereal disease were abolished in India ; so, for a period 
of eight years, it is possible to compare India, minus regulations, with Cape 
Town and a Contagious Disease act in force. For the five years previous 
to the act coming into force at Cape Town, the average admissions among 
troops on that station for primary and secondary syphilis were 371 per 1,000 
of strength. The troops in the Rohilkhand district of India, for the years 
1889-96, had almost exactly the same proportion of admissions, viz. : 370 
per 1,000, neither station being under a Contagious Disease act. For the 
nine years 1889-97, after prostitution was officially regulated, the ad- 
missions for venereal disease at Cape Town were reduced to 178 per 1,000 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 836 



strength; while Rohilkhand, during the like number of years, 1880- 
88, prior to the removal of all official control over prostitution, had nearly 
the same number of admissions for this cause, 134 per 1,000. The 
chart on page 834 graphically shows the influence of the acts upon the ad- 
missions for syphilis; the heavy vertical lines marking the abolition of all 
restrictions in India being followed by an immediate and extraordinary 
increase in the number of cases of this disease, and also showing the 
point at which unrestricted prostitution in Cape Town came under official 
control, a remarkable and permanent decrease resulting. To such an un- 
answerable argument as to the value of controlled prostitution it would be 
almost superfluous to add. 

Browning states that previous to restrictive measures coming into force 
at Cape Town, venereal diseases of all kinds were rampant and the admis- 
sions to the military hospitals, for these affections, appalling; the latter 
having reached a rate of 828 per 1,000 strength. The average for the 
years 1884-88 for all forms of venereal disease was 674 per 1,000, while 
the average for the years 1889-97, after prostitution was regulated, was 
only 349. This was not a gradual fall which might be accounted for by 
an improvement in morals, but a sudden descent, as shown in the following 



400 



till 



Fio. 870. Admissions for All Venereal Diseases, per 1,000 Strength, Among the British Troops at Cape 
Town, Showing their Relative Prevalence Before and After the Regulation of Prostitution. The ver- 
tical lines mark the institution of official control. (After Browning.) 

diagram, from 828 per 1,000 in 1888 to 347 per 1,000 in 1889. In 1897 
the rate had been further reduced to 216 per 1,000. 

Browning concludes that the Contagious Diseases act of the Cape of 
Good Hope has "been the means of preventing thousands of soldiers in 
the garrison at Cape Town from being incapacitated by venereal diseases " 
and that " the men who still contract such complaints suffer from a milder 
form than existed prior to the act coming into force." He believes that 
"the act is a humane one, relieving the sufferings of hundreds of prosti- 



836 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

tutes and also alleviating the distress of women who, though not strumpets, 
contract venereal disease." 

In the province of Pinar del Rio, Cuba, during its recent occupation 
by United States troops, the following order was published and enforced : 
" Clandestine prostitution will not be tolerated. Prostitutes shall be regis- 
tered. They shall live in such locations as are indicated. Each prosti- 
tute shall have a book. In this her name, age, nationality and address 
shall be recorded.. She shall be examined at least once a week by a 
physician, and the examining physician shall sign the book. This exami- 
nation shall be good only for one week. Any prostitute engaging in her 
trade when her book is not signed to date shall be punished. She shall 
not change her residence without the permission of the sanitary inspector. 
The proprietors of houses of prostitution will be held accountable for the 
r-ondition of the houses, and of the inmates ; also for the orderly conduct 
of those living in or visiting such houses. No liquor shall be sold, given 
away or drunk in houses of prostitution. Each prostitute will be required 
to provide the means necessary for securing her own and her visitors' 
cleanliness. Cases of venereal disease must be at once reported to the 
sanitary inspector. When venereal disease is traced to any particular 
person, such person will be subjected to punishment." As to the results 
which followed the enforcement of this order, the chief surgeon of that 
department writes : " In connection with the matter of regulated prostitu- 
tion, this command has been in Cuba three months and numbers 3,000 
men. These men have free access to the towns. I have not been able to 
find more than nine men who have contracted venereal disease in the De- 
partment of Pinar del Rio." 

In certain cities of the Philippine Islands, similar rules for the regula- 
tion of prostitution have been enforced. At Jolo, in the Sulu archipelago, 
the occupation of the town by our troops was followed by the appearance 
of about forty Japanese prostitutes. At first no effort was made to control 
these women, and, according to Steer, much venereal disease appeared in 
the command. As a result, the regulation of prostitution was decided upon ; 
strict rules were enforced, among them being the weekly examination of the 
prostitutes and the exclusion of all outside individuals, as sailors and com- 
mercial people, from the houses. A lock-hospital was also opened, which 
the women were compelled to enter upon the slightest suspicion of venereal 
disease and in which they were kept until their recovery was complete. 
With regard to the men, frequent inspections of the person were made. 
Some difficulty was experienced with cases of chronic gonorrhoea, as the 
services of as many men as possible were required, but the problem was 
finally solved by making up the garrison of a detached block-house from such 
cases, with an officer detailed to command them and a member of the hos- 
pital corps assigned to ensure the proper carrying out of treatment. Under 
these precautions, the amount of venereal disease was reduced to less than 
one per cent. ; there being but five cases of venereal under treatment, at the 
time of the report, out of a command of seven hundred and fifty men. To 
show the effect of this system in reducing venereal, Steer states that from 
one battalion which came to Jolo after service in the islands of Cebu and 
Leyte, inspection showed seventy-eight men with venereal infections a 
number being syphilitic. On the arrival of this battalion, the houses of 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 837 

prostitution were closed, and kept so until the men had been inspected and 
those who were diseased had been isolated and prevented from transmitting 
their affections to others. As a result of the control of prostitution at Jolo, 
not a case of primary syphilis has occurred among the soldiers during the 
year its regulation has been enforced, the venereal diseases which do oc- 
cur are mild in character and are notably free from the complications so 
frequently observed in other parts of the Philippines. The prostitutes are 
restricted to certain houses and are rarely seen on the streets or at the 
windows, so there is little to shock the casual observer. As a result of the 
presence of these women, trouble with the surrounding native Mahommedan 
population is avoided. 

In the report concerning the sickness among the British troops com- 
posing the Dongola Expeditionary Force, in 1896, the chief medical officer 
says : " On first arriving at Wady Haifa there was some trouble found in 
checking clandestine prostitution. There were a large number of native 
women who were living just outside the English lines, and it was from 
these women that the men contracted disease. There was a licensed 
brothel under supervision in the native town of Wady Haifa, and the 
inmates were periodically examined. Very few cases of disease were con- 
tracted there. Stringent police precautions were taken and a military 
patrol was placed outside the camp to prevent women from coming near, 
and this answered so effectively that after a few weeks the nuisance was 
almost stopped and there were hardly any admissions afterward for vene- 
real." 

For the period 1863-65, the Italian army had an admission rate for 
venereal disease of 120 per 1,000; this falling in 1874-76, as the result 
of sanitary inspection and careful control of prostitution, to 66 per 1,000. 
In 1888, under the influence of English ideas, the Italians abolished the 
regulation of prostitution; a venereal rate of 47.5 per 1,000 strength, of 
the previous year, being increased to 66.6 in 1889 and 93.3 in 1893. 

In view of such facts as are quoted above, there can be no doubt that 
the intelligent regulation of prostitution results in a great decrease in vene- 
real ; this to be accomplished by a system including careful registration, 
official surveillance and weekly medical inspection, so that the addresses 
of prostitutes may be known, their movements traced and any diseased 
condition recognized. The latter requirement is of the greatest impor- 
tance a fact of which the British Sanitary Commission in India was 
fully convinced when it recently reported: "We are satisfied from the 
evidence that the frequent examination of women is the most efficacious 
method of controlling the disease." These examinations should be made 
in private and only in the presence of official examiners. 

Clandestine prostitution should be discouraged as far as possible, as 
furnishing a high rate of venereal. Colin noted that of 32 syphilitic 
French soldiers, 14 were infected by public prostitutes and 18 by women 
employed in so-called wine shops. All common prostitutes should be 
segregated within well-defined limits and public solicitation severely pun- 
ished. Brief printed instructions should be furnished these women as to 
the dangers and prevalence of venereal, and the importance of cleanliness 
as a measure of prophylaxis. Next to medical inspection, it is probable 
that care in maintaining cleanliness of the person, is the most important 



838 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

factor in preventing the spread of disease venereal; it having been experi- 
mentally determined that infection from the non-syphilitic venereal sore 
may usually be prevented by a thorough cleansing of the parts with soap and 
water if done within ten minutes from the time of exposure. When dis- 
eased, such public women sliould be at once isolated in a proper institution 
until 'restored to health. Apart from the great importance of such action 
upon the general welfare, it is also a matter of humanity to these unfor- 
tunates that they should have the benefits of medical treatment, with rest 
and care in hospital, until they are cured. Obedience to these regulations 
should be enforced by police authority ; but public exposure, as far as the 
occurrence of venereal disease is concerned, should be prevented as far as 
possible. It should not be forgotten that when official control becomes too 
rigorous the number of avowed public women undergoes diminution while 
clandestine prostitution increases. The proposition is not here advanced 
that the Government should provide prostitutes for troops, as has been 
done by the British military authorities in India, nor that a native concu- 
bine should be officially allowed and supported for each soldier, as is said 
to be the case at present with respect to the Dutch troops at certain sta- 
tions in Java. There should be no official encouragement of vice ; but the 
regulation of vice is not its encouragement, and such women as have vol- 
untarily chosen to adopt a life of prostitution and who come within the 
sphere of military control, as may well be the case under many circum- 
stances, should be prevented, so far as possible, from spreading loathsome 
disease among the men whose health it is the duty of the sanitary officer to 
guard the latter, in this manner, indirectly shielding the civil population 
to which the soldier returns on his discharge. That the men who consort 
with prostitutes do so at their own risk is a specious argument which 
might l>e applied as justly with reference to any other infectious disease. 
The public welfare must be consulted, for the soldier himself is frequently 
not the only sufferer from his transgressions, but may transmit his affec- 
tion, in many ways, to the innocent. With the ethics of the question 
the sanitary officer has nothing to do. Prostitution always has existed, 
and probably will continue to do so while the world lasts and .human 
nature is weak. The most severe laws of ancient times, even the death 
penalty, failed to stamp it out. The military service finds these social 
conditions it does not create them and it is the duty of the sanitary 
officer to limit and modify their effects by every means possible. Of these, 
the regulation of prostitution is the most efficacious. 

Since military garrisons often attract to their vicinity lewd women of 
the lowest character and largely subjects of venereal affections, great care 
should be taken to prevent loitering or importuning by this class, or by 
their male associates, within the limits of the command. Particularly in 
the tropics it is desirable that no females should be employed in or about 
the barracks, since there is evidence that such women are frequently the 
source of aggravated forms of venereal disease. 

In addition to the control of the women chiefly concerned in its dis- 
semination, the prophylaxis of venereal disease among troops requires the 
application of suitable preventive measures to the soldier. The large 
amount of venereal disease occurring among troops a condition entirely 
preventable and dependent upon vicious indulgences has led many to 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 839 

suggest the imposition of penalties upon such soldiers as may offend in 
this respect. It has been proposed that those incapacitated for duty from 
this cause be deprived of their pay while rendering no service to the Gov- 
ernment; that their privileges be restricted or that confinement be im- 
posed. In the French army, a period of imprisonment was at one time 
imposed upon every venereal case after discharge from hospital; but, as 
this led the men to conceal their diseased condition from the medical 
officers and either go without treatment or place themselves in the hands of 
unqualified practitioners, the order was revoked. It is certainly subversive 
of discipline and unjust to the more moral class of men to require them to 
perform the extra duty which results from the entrance into hospital, as a 
result of their own misconduct, of those on whom such duties should right- 
fully have devolved. Such a condition practically puts a premium upon 
participation in vice, and apparently the only way by which the latter can 
be punished is through compulsory inspection of the person, as is required 
in the German army. Quite recently this plan has been tried in several 
commands of our own service and has not aroused the opposition on the part 
of the men which was at first anticipated ; it would be of much sanitary ad- 
vantage if the plan were more generally adopted. During the occupation 
of Cuba, an order was issued on this subject in the Department of Ma- 
tanzas, of which the following is an extract : " There should be a weekly 
examination of all the enlisted men in the command made by the medical 
officers, and the company commanders should be required to be in attend- 
ance. The men should be stripped and this examination should be com- 
plete as far as relates* to any outward evidences of venereal disease or other 
infections. A list of all the men found infected with venereal troubles 
should be made out under the direction of the company commander and 
posted conspicuously on the bulletin-board or in the barracks of each 
company organization. Among these thus affected, only those who are 
actually incapacitated from performing their duties should be placed on 
sick report, the others being required to perform all duties. The privileges 
of the canteen and all pass privileges should be withdrawn from all whose 
names are thus posted and extra severe punishment meted out to those who 
are detected violating this rule. As soon as any one thus listed is, in the 
opinion of the surgeon, free from all manifestations of venereal infection 
the surgeon should notify the company commander, so as to enable the 
latter to take his name from the list. This course cannot be construed 
into actual punishment of the enlisted men, for the reason that in taking 
away his canteen and pass privileges it is merely in the nature of removing 
the causes which tend to retard his recovery. A weekly inspection is 
necessary, as there is no other way by which it can be determined whether 
or not the individuals are infected." 

Where measures for the control of prostitution can be carried out, the 
soldier affected with venereal disease should be required to state where and 
from whom it was contracted, with a view to the proper segregation and 
treatment of the woman indicated. In the British service, however, dur- 
ing the existence of the cantonment laws, some difficulty was met with, 
according to Welch, in the attempt to identify the source of venereal 
infection through the unwillingness of the soldier to expose his co-partner 
in vice. 



840 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

Under present conditions, many soldiers affected with venereal disease 
hesitate to declare its existence through the official publicity necessarily 
given to such cases, and their reluctance to have their names entered upon 
the records in connection with affections of this character. Thus of two 
companies aggregating 170 men, which had recently returned from two years' 
service in Porto Kico and which were inspected by the writer, no less than 
37 cases of concealed venereal disease were found, of which 11 were syphi- 
litic. These had not been declared through fear that they might prove a 
possible obstacle to re-enlistment or the subsequent attainment of a pension. 
As a result of failure on the part of the soldier to report his condition, the 
latter, in many instances, is aggravated by being left either without treat- 
ment or by the employment of patent medicines or unskilled advisers; 
while the sufferer is a constant source of danger to his associates. Where 
venereal disease is concealed, the offender, if detected, should be severely 
punished ; and it should be thoroughly understood by the men that it is 
greatly to their own interest, in the way of cure, to declare the existence of 
such an affection as soon as its appearance is noted. Further, all non-com- 
missioned officers, knowing of the existence of cases of venereal disease in 
their troop or company, should be held responsible for the prompt appear- 
ance of the sick men before a medical officer. A soldier who chronically 
exposes himself and undergoes repeated infection should be regarded as 
morally unfitted for the military service and a candidate for discharge. 
Such a man is a nuisance in a company and is so regarded by the 
good men, who shun his contact and are suspicious of the bath-room and 
other conveniences which all use in common. Spending a large part of 
his time in hospitals, the services of such a man are often of but little value 
to the Government. 

It would certainly be of advantage to the military service if short lectures 
by medical officers, particularly at recruiting depots, were delivered at suit- 
able periods for the purpose of acquainting soldiers with the grave and 
far-reaching consequences that are likely to result from immoral conduct, 
particularly with respect to clandestine prostitution ; the importance of 
early treatment in the case of venereal disease and the dangers resulting 
from its concealment ; the intractable character of syphilis and the necessity 
for prolonged medication ; the dangers resulting to the healthy from the 
presence of concealed venereal disease in barracks. It is a question 
whether a general discussion of the personal means sometimes employed 
in the prevention of venereal infection would be advisable ; and the sanitary 
officer should carefully avoid assuming a position which might be construed 
by the men as in any way favoring the practice of sexual gratification. 
Chastity should be inculcated, and the too common idea that sexual con- 
tinence increases sickness and mortality should not be encouraged. 

USE OF TOBACCO. 

The moderate use of tobacco, both in garrison and in the field, may be 
regarded as necessary to the comfort and happiness of the average soldier. 
It is certain that among many individuals the want of this article causes 
even more hardship than the lack of food ; and its deprivation, as a means 
of punishment, is said to figure among the disciplinary measures of the 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 841 

German army. In the military service, tobacco is ordinarily employed for 
smoking, and its use for chewing is as exceptional among soldiers as it is 
frequent among sailors. Smoked in moderation after meals, it stimulates 
gastric secretion, aids digestion and increases peristalsis; where the supply 
of food is insufficient, it markedly diminishes the sensation of hunger. 
Korloff , during the last Russo-Turkish War, specially studied its properties 
in the latter respect, as a result of which he recommended that a daily 
allowance be issued to the Russian troops ; and in our own service tobacco 
has wisely been incorporated as one of the components of the emergency 
ration. Experience shows, however, that smoking during the heat of the 
day, particularly while on the march, increases thirst and leads to unneces- 
sary drinking the same result, through the loss of salivary fluids induced 
by frequent expectoration, following the use of tobacco by chewing. 

Tobacco promotes reverie, overcomes weariness, relieves ennui and over 
many individuals has a markedly soothing influence. In camps of long 
standing, the soldier sooner or later becomes fretted by the monotony of 
the life, and tobacco is largely used ; nominally to help pass the time but 
in reality for its sedative influence on an unemployed nervous system. 
Under the latter conditions, its consumption may become sufficiently great 
to demand the attention of the medical officer, for excess in its use is pro- 
ductive of positive evils. Arnold considered it to be an abuse of tobacco 
if the daily consumption of this article, per man, exceeded half an ounce. 
It is impossible, however, to predetermine the minimum quantity which 
would be harmful to each individual but shortness of breath, obscure pains 
around the heart and nervous irritability are indications to reduce or 
abstain from the use of tobacco. More pronounced symptoms resulting 
from its use are loss of appetite and impaired muscular force, vertigo, 
alteration of vision, loss of memory and progressive weakening of the mental 
faculties. In general, however, tobacco can be regarded as harmful only 
to soldiers of a highly neurotic tendency and to those of insufficient will 
power properly to restrict its use. Whatever its possible theoretical 
dangers, the hospital records of our army demonstrate that little justifiable 
criticism can be made of the present use of tobacco by American soldiers, 
nearly all of whom habitually employ it without the production of any ill 
effects whatever. 

Smoking should be prohibited in barrack dormitories and allowed only 
in the open air or in rooms specially designated for the purpose. The in- 
dividual hygiene of the smoker consists in maintaining cleanliness of the 
mouth and of the pipe, cigar- or cigarette-holder employed; in abstaining 
from the practice of inhaling the smoke into the lungs, from smoking be- 
fore breakfast and in a proper limitation of the amount of tobacco consumed. 



TATTOOING. 

Thu is a wide-spread custom of great antiquity, especially common 
among people of a rudimentary civilization. Among such, it is used not 
only for purposes of adornment but also as a means of readily identifying 
the individual and determining his nationality. Among civilized peoples 
it is affected chiefly by those of a low social and criminal class, and may 



842 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

fairly be looked upon as one of the stigmata of degeneracy ; the more in- 
telligent men not being partial to this method of ornamentation. A large 
proportion of tattooed recruits are enlisted from cities and large towns. 
Among soldiers, imitation is the most important factor in inducing tattoo- 
ing, the great majority unthinkingly following the example set by others 

a former sailor being frequently responsible for the performance of this 

operation on the persons of his comrades. Much of the tattooing noticed 
on recruits will be found to have been done on the appearance of the geni- 
tal function ; often in commemoration of an attachment, illicit or other- 
wise. The marking is generally limited to those parts normally covered 
with clothing, the site most commonly selected being the anterior aspect of 
the forearm though other portions of the body, as the arms, legs and trunk, 
are not spared. As observed by the recruiting officer, the most common 
devices are initials, dancing and nude female figures, flags, ships, anchors, 
wristlets, hearts and clasped hands. This form of decoration is usually 
resorted to from motives of vanity. Others are selected as being symbol- 
ical of occupation, as the whip and horseshoe, or as indicative of feeling 
or state of mind, as shown by an embracing couple. Indecent designs, so 
common among the criminal classes, are not seen in our military service, 
since the possession of tattooing of this character constitutes a bar to en- 
listment. In city-bred recruits, particularly those who have had a street 
life, small dots are frequently noted on the web between the thumb and 
first finger. These, varying in number from two or three to eight or nine 
or more, irregularly distributed or arranged in circular, stellate, triangular 
or rectangular form, are evidence of membership in certain organizations, 
serving the same purpose in handshaking as the fraternal grip of more pre- 
tentious and laudable societies. 

The operation of tattooing, among soldiers, is done by pricking; and 
tattooing by scars, though abrasion of the cuticle, is not common. The 
coloring matter employed is usually India ink, wood-charcoal or perhaps 
laundry blueing the red color being given by vermilion. The operation 
not rarely causes inflammation of the lymphatic glands and sometimes 
abscess. More rarely a condition of marked sepsis results, and Berchon 
cites four cases in which amputation of a limb was required for this reason. 
As usually carried out, the colors are moistened in the palm of the hand 
with the saliva of the operator. The men who do this work are sometimes 
affected with constitutional disease; and Chenisse, Eobert, Bergasse and 
others have observed a large number of instances where syphilis has been 
transmitted by this procedure. This is especially common in the tropics, 
where the native operators are not exceptions to the more general syphiliza- 
tion of their race. In the same way, inoculation with tuberculosis has fre- 
quently occurred ; Callings and Murray reporting an interesting series of 
cases in which the tuberculous manifestations appeared from three weeks 
to one month after tattooing done with colors rubbed up with the saliva 
of a phthisical operator. 

As to the proportion of tattooed individuals in the military service, 
Lombroso noted that of 2,739 Italian soldiers only 1.2 per cent, were so 
marked, while as much as 10 per cent, of more than 6,000 adult crimi- 
nals had subjected themselves to the operation. For the German service, 
Baer found the above condition to be reversed ; only 2 per cent, of crimi- 



PLATE VIII. 









COMMON FOUMS OK TATTOOIXU ANH>.N<- >I>UIKKS*. 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 843 

nals being tattooed as compared with 9.5 per cent, of soldiers. For our 
own service, no definite figures upon this point are available, but the pro- 
portion of tattooed soldiers is certainly very considerable. 



AMUSEMENTS OF THE SOLDIER. 

The monotony of life in garrison, and especially among troops on 
foreign service or in encampments of long standing, will, unless inter- 
rupted, become extremely irksome. Under such conditions, nostalgia is 
very liable to develop, especially among young recruits and new regiments. 
This affection was very common among the volunteer troops first sent to 
the Philippines, affecting officers as well as men ; one Nebraska regiment 
having at one time 95 cases reported by the regimental surgeon as " No 
diagnosis, probably nostalgia." In many instances, the medical officers 
themselves were affected with this complaint and the result was a sick-list 
wholly out of proportion to the actual disease present. After the novelty 
of strange environment and new duties has worn off, the soldier suffers 
from sameness of occupation and sooner or later from the results of 
comparative idleness. All officers serving with troops should fully appre- 
ciate that ennui is at the foundation of much of the physical and most of 
the moral evils by which the efficiency of the soldier is impaired. Idle- 
ness, discontent, insubordination, vice and sickness occur in logical se- 
quence ; and, while most officers will possess internal resources affording 
congenial occupation to themselves, suitable employment and means of dis- 
traction must be found for the enlisted men. For this purpose, a sufficient 
amount of fatigue work daily, if carefully planned with reference to a 
definite object, will do much toward maintaining the mental and moral as 
well as the physical tone of troops ; besides, at the same time, providing 
many comforts and ministering to the ever-present sanitary needs of the 
command. Where work of this sort is scarce, it should be so economized as 
to provide a few hours' employment daily for the time soon comes when 
drills alone cease to afford sufficient diversion. Work merely for work's 
sake is undesirable and promotes discontent, but troops will cheerfully per- 
form any labor which apparently tends to their safety and comfort. Marches 
into the surrounding country, temporary camps from garrisoned posts, field 
maneuvers, the construction of entrenchments with practical illustration 
of their defence and attack all are methods of maintaining the mental, 
physical and military efficiency of the command. Pedestrianism should 
be particularly cultivated among infantry troops and prize matches ar- 
ranged for suitable occasions. In cavalry commands, trick and Cossack 
riding will be valuable to both men and animals. Horse-racing affords an 
interest to all; and target practice not formal duty-firing, but competi- 
tive trial between teams from different organizations will give a break in 
the monotony. Hunting and fishing should always be encouraged among 
troops as affording a most valuable means of recreation and change of diet ; 
at the same time familiarizing the soldier with the use of his weapons, 
with the topography of the surrounding country and with the science of 
woodcraft. Gymnasium work, applied gymnastics and athletic field-sports 
not only improve the physical condition but also the mental state of the 
men. Field-days for competitive athletics should be held at suitable in- 



844 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

tervals, and all out-of-door games, especially such as football and lacrosse, 
should be encouraged in every possible manner. 

It is especially during the enforced monotony of winter camps, or with 
small detached commands in the tropics during the rainy season, that sys- 
tematic effort should be made to amuse and interest the men. The frequently 
narrow quarters and perhaps imperfect means of maintaining cleanliness, 
the confinement within doors by the condition of the roads and weather, 
the long uneventful waking hours, the prolonged sexual abstinence and the 
tread-mill round of minor and annoying drudgery all tend to disturb the 
nervous balance and lead to attempted relief. If alcoholic liquors can be 
obtained at such times they are much abused, and the excesses tell on 
the nervous system by depressant action. Gambling is the favorite excite- 
ment of many in spite of its official prescription ; and prolonged sessions, 
implying loss of sleep and disorders of assimilation, are held in cramped 
positions and frequently foul atmospheres. Much too common a vice, 
gambling should be discouraged in the military service as tending to de- 
velop a class of sharpers who fleece their comrades and beget bad feeling 
directly to the prejudice of good order and discipline. Under the above con- 
ditions, tobacco and excessive sleep are resorted to as aiding to pass away the 
time under conditions of ennui ; while vicious dealings with the generative 
function may, with certain individuals, be called upon to furnish in this way 
the nervous excitement required. To turn the attention into more healthful 
channels, varied indoor amusements, in addition to outdoor sports, should be 
officially encouraged. Heading-rooms and small libraries should be estab- 
lished, and dramatic and variety entertainments projected. Under all cir- 
cumstances, music dispels mental depression and stimulates and enlivens 
those under its influence. Bands are of great value, especially with unsea- 
soned troops ; and the formation of musical clubs among the men should be 
encouraged for this reason. Literary and debating societies introduce a 
town-meeting element which has no place in the military service ; nor is it 
reasonable to expect the greater portion of the enlisted force to become greatly 
interested in intellectual pursuits. For this class* of men, the canteen fur- 
nishes a congenial club in which their social needs are best satisfied. 

With large commands, men can always be found possessing special 
talents as actors, vocalists or athletes for amusing others; and such 
should be promptly sought out, organized into a company and encouraged 
by official recognition and assistance in catering to the amusement of the 
troops. Under the monotonous conditions of camp life, officers will do 
well to encourage the energies, while directing the efforts, of the leading 
spirits of their commands. There are always certain men of initiative in 
creating diversion and such carry the mass with them and bring amuse- 
ment to all. Their efforts should be promoted in every possible way, as 
being of the greatest value in the prevention of ennui and discontent. In 
large commands, an officer should be detailed to take charge of all public 
amusements including theatrical performances, shooting, racing and com- 
petitions of all sorts. If active and enterprising, he will keep many names 
off the sick-list and tide the command through the period of tedium with 
undimimshed nerve force. 

It may be added in this connection that " the effect of aggregating or 
massing together a large number of men is a peculiar psychological prob- 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 845 



lem. A mob may readily be induced to perform acts the most illegal and 
irrational; and an army, if the contradiction of terms may be employed, 
is a disciplined mob. Men who, at home, are correct and dignified mem- 
bers of society, when gathered into an army and removed from home re- 
straints will speak and act in violation of propriety, decorum and 
law. The tendency to a disregard of law, hygienic as well as other, be- 
comes the rule rather than the exception. The lapse of time and the power 
of discipline may diminish this*tendency to lawlessness, but it never en- 
tirely disappears from an army in which fighting is not the constant busi- 
ness of life." 

INSANITY AND SUICIDE. 

Mental diseases have undergone a considerable diminution in our ser- 
vice during comparatively recent years; this undoubtedly resulting from 
the greater provision officially made for the intellectual needs and recre- 
ation of the soldier, together with the concentration of troops near large 
centres of population. With the present establishment of small garrisons 
throughout the tropical islands, an increase in insanity may be expected. 
Among our troops on foreign service, home-sickness appears to be a potent 
factor in producing a condition of melancholia. During the past three 
years, the isolation of troops, their lack of knowledge of the native lan- 
guage, their enforced confinement to garrisoned towns, and the con- 
stant nervous strain incident to continued preparation against attack by 
the enemy, all combine to produce a mental condition, which, for want of 
a better name, is called insanity, and which is often completely and effec- 
tively cured by the trip from the Philippines to the United States. That 
the condition is a serious one is evidenced by the fact that the majority 
of suicides occur in this class of cases. The following figures show the 
rates for mental diseases in our army for a period of thirty years : 



Year. 


Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 


Year. 


Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 


Year. 


Admissions per 
1,000 strength. 


1MB 


1 7 


1878.. 


1.5 


1888 


1.7 


1869 


1 5 


1879 


1.9 


1889 


1.8 


1870 


2 1 


1880 


2.1 


1890 


1.8 


1871 


2 


1881 


2.5 


1891 


1.5 


1872 . ... 


2.4 


1882 


2.8 


1892 


1.9 


1878 


22 


1888 


8 


1898... 


1.8 


1874 


1 8 


1884 


2.1 


1894 


.9 


1875 


2.2 


1885 


1.4 


1895 


.7 


1876 


1.4 


1886 


1.4 


1896 


.8 


1877 


1 6 


1887 


1.9 


1897 


.8 















In opposition to the conditions prevailing in our service under condi- 
tions of peace, insanity would seem to be steadily on the increase in the 



Year. 


Number of men 
invalided for 
mental alienation. 


Year. 


Number of men 
invalided for 
mental alienation. 


Year. 


Number of men 
invalided for 
mental alienation. 


1877 


62 


1882.. 


81 


1887... 


180 


1878 


94 


1888 


64 


1888 


150 


1879 


77 


1884 


78 


1889 


158 


1880 


68 


1885 


120 


1890 


192 


1881 . . . 


82 


1886 


112 



















846 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

French army ; the figures in the preceding table referring to French troops 
on home service and in Algeria. 

In the British army, the rates for mental disease, for the ten years 
1887-96, are given as follows: 



Admissions 

Station. Per 1,000 

strength. 

England 1-2 

Scotland 1.8 

Ireland 1.6 

Gibraltar 1 

Malta 1.7 

Canada 8 



Admissions 

Station. per 1,000 

strength. 

Bermuda 1.5 

West Indies 7 

Ceylon 1.8 

China 1.2 

Straits Settlements 1.5 

India . . .1.7 



From the above figures, it is seen that tropical service under ordinary 
conditions, contrary to what is commonly supposed, does not appear greatly 
to increase the liability to insanity. 

Race appears to be a strong factor in determining the occurrence of in 
sanity ; thus for the decade 1888-97 the admission rate in our army for this 
cause, per 1,000 strength, was 1.23 for white troops and but '.68 for colored 
troops. Undoubtedly the comparatively dulled mentality and indifference 
to the future which characterize the negro race has much to do with 
bringing about the much lower rate for insanity in the case of the latter, 
but the remarkable abstinence manifested by colored troops with respect 
to the use of alcoholics must not be overlooked in this connection. As 
bearing out the theory that individuals possessing a higher order of mental 
attainments and a more lively sense of responsibility are more liable to de- 
velop insanity, Coustan states that in the French army, for the period 
1891-94, the admissions for this cause, per 1,000 strength, were .80 for 
commissioned officers and but .31 for non-commissioned officers. For 
the same period he found the admission rate for privates having more 
than one year's service to be .39, while for those having less than one 
year's service it was .53. This increased liability to mental disease among 
recruits is undoubtedly due to the fact that in the French army, maintained 
by forced military service, many young men are separated from home and 
friends against their wish and thus become subjects of intense mental 
depression. Further, the most careful physical examination may overlook 
a tendency to mental instability in a recruit, which may afterward be 
quickly developed under the conditions of military discipline, the monot- 
ony of garrison life or the excitement of campaign. 

The military spirit, which naturally cultivates indifference to life, is 
undoubtedly favorable to self-destruction, and does much to. raise the 
rates for suicide in the military service above those prevailing in civil life. 
In addition to this feeling, the soldier, constantly under the control of an- 
other, separated from home and friends, often occupying isolated and 
lonely stations and performing monotonous duties, is more prone to melan- 
cholia and mental depression and the tendency toward desertion or sfticide 
occurring therefrom. In the United States service, since the Civil War, 
the rate for suicide increased considerably until within the last six years ; 
during which time there has been a sudden and great diminution. For 
various years, the rates have been as follows : 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 847 



Suicides 

Tew. per 1,000 

strength. 

1868 0.44 

1872 51 

1878 68 

1883.. . 1.10 



Y.-ar. 



1SS1) . 

1894. 
1896. 
1897.. 



Sulddea 
per 1.000 
strength. 

. 0.88 

. .79 

. .48 

.89 



In 1898, a year of war, the rate greatly diminished; being only .26 
per 1,000 strength. This reduction in rates shows the influence of the 
excitement and novelty of field service in preventing a tendency to self- 
destruction. This fact has been noted in other armies; thus out of 401 
consecutive suicides in the French army, not a single one occurred during 
the month of September, when the annual maneuvers are carried on. The 
desirability of furnishing sufficient and agreeable mental occupation for 
troops is thus emphasized. 

The suicides in our service, for the seven years 1887-93, amounted to a 
total of 134 cases 7 officers and 127 enlisted men. These were divided, 
according to branch of service, as follows : 



Infantry 64 

Cavalry 28 

Artillery 15 

Ordnance 5 



Engineers 2 

Medical and Hospital Corps ... 7 
All others .18 



Of these suicides, 51 were under 30 years of age, 56 were between 30 and 
40, and 27 were over 40. The methods of self-destruction employed were : 



Gunshot 97 

Poison . ... 26 



Drowning 4 

Throat-cutting 8 



and 1 each by severing radial artery, suffocation, strangulation and crush- 
ing by railroad train. In 37 instances, the causes were undetermined; in 
the others, the reputed causes were as follows : 



Alcoholism 42 

Despondency 12 

Insanity 10 

Love troubles 6 

Temporary mental aberration. . 5 

Fear of court-martial 5 

Domestic troubles 8 

Fear of results of syphilis 2 



Losses by gambling 2 

Charge of theft 2 

Jealousy 2 

Home-sickness 1 

Nervous depression 1 

Failure to obtain promotion 1 

Tired of living 1 

Distaste for service. . 1 



For the four years 1894-97, only 3 of the 58 suicides reported occurred 
in the first year of enlistment; thus corroborating the belief that self- 
destruction prevails chiefly among old soldiers among whom the rates for 
alcoholism are also disproportionately high. It is obvious that in our 
army, recruited by voluntary enlistment and for comparatively short terms 
of duty, the suicides resulting from dislike of the service or other reasons 
depending upon a military life are much less frequent than in foreign 
armies maintained by compulsory enrollment. 

According to Millard, the rate per 1,000 for suicides in the entire Brit- 
ish army, during the period 1852-56, was .155; for the period 1859- 
66, the rate was .26; in 1866-70, it was .443. In 1873 it had fallen to 
.25. For the British troops on the home stations, the rate was .23 in 
1897, .21 in 1896 and .20 as an average for the preceding ten years. 
For stations outside the United Kingdom, these latter rates were practically 



848 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

doubled In most cases, the causes of suicide were stated to be unknown ; 
in others, they are variously reported as hypochondriasis, disappointment 
in love, excessive drinking, dislike of the service, fear of punishment, 
insanitv following diseases like malaria and typhoid fever, and "temporary 
insanity." The chief methods selected for self-destruction, in order of 
preference, were shooting, hanging, drowning and throat-cutting. 

A number of years ago, suicides were so frequent among the British 
troops at certain stations as to give rise to much concern and cause the 
adoption of measures for its repression. Thus Davy states that where three 
suicides occurred in succession in a regiment stationed at Malta, the body 
of the last suicide was officially disgraced, being dragged around the barrack- 
yard by an ass in the presence of the troops and then buried in unconse- 
crated ground. The effect of this procedure was not known, as the regi- 
ment was shortly removed to another station. The same writer, speaking 
of the conditions existing at that time, says: "It is mostly on foreign sta- 
tions that suicides are committed, and chiefly on islands from which there 
is no escape. In other stations where there are opportunities for desertion, 
the latter is the prevailing offence rather than suicide." 

Among the French troops serving at the home stations, the rate for 
suicide, as given by Viry, was .47 for the period 1862-69 and .29 for the 
years 1872-90. In a study of 69 cases, 9 of which occurred in sergeants, 
Aruould divided the causes as follows : 



Fear of punishment 21 

Mental alienation from disease, 13 
Unknown 12 



Disappointment in love 9 

Hypochondriasis 8 

Alcoholism 6 



Viry states that only one-sixteenth of the suicides among French soldiers 
are attributed to dislike of the service the greater number being due to 
the fear of punishment, brought about by neglect of duty and not by the 
severity of discipline. In Algeria and Tunis, for the period 1872-90, the 
suicide rate was .68 per 1,000. As is the case with insanity, suicides in 
the French army are influenced in their frequency by rank and length of 
service. Thus for the period 1891-94, the respective rates for suicide, per 
thousand of each class, were as follows : 

Rank and service. Rate per thousand. 

Non-commissioned officers 68 

Privates of more than one year's service 22 

Privates of less than one year's service 36 

It is thus seen that where compulsory military service is required, the rates 
as regards the suicide of old soldiers are reversed as compared with those 
for our own army. In the Oran expedition of Bugeaud, in Algeria, a large 
number of the men who fell from the ranks, overcome by heat and exhaus- 
tion, are stated to have committed suicide. 

In the Prussian army, for the period 1829-38, Baudin states that the 
suicides averaged .50 per 1,000 strength. From 1846 to 1873, the rate 
was .46; from 1867-72 it was .60. For the entire German army, 
,873-78, the rate was .61 and from 1878-88 it was .67 per 1,000. In 
1896-97 it had fallen to .44; there being 225 suicides and 87 ineffectual 
attempts at self-destruction. The Saxon army-corps is said to have had 
an unusually high rate; the suicide rate for a long time averaging .92. 



HABITS OF THE SOLDIER AS AFFECTING EFFICIENCY. 849 

As a whole, the rate for the German army is nearly twice as great at for 
the French service. In 1889-90, the proportional number of suicides in 
the German army, calculated for each thousand deaths from all causes, was 
as follows : 

Under one year of service 87.7 

From one to two years' service 80.9 

From two to three years' service 2/5.9 

From three to four years' service 8.6 

Four years' service and upward 88.8 

The causes of suicide in the German army may be roughly divided into 
one-third due to fear of punishment, one-half attributable to mental diseases 
and the remainder dependent upon disappointment from various causes and 
to dislike of the service. 

In the Austrian army, the rate for self -destruction is high being .97 
in 1870, .81 in 1873 and 1.22 for the period of 1875-87. Suicide is 
relatively about four times more frequent in non-commissioned officers 
than in privates. Of late, the mortality from suicide represents 1.5 per 
cent, of the general mortality, and this rate appears to be increasing. As 
in the German army, more than half the suicides occur during the first 
year of service ; and mutilations of the index linger, middle finger and 
thumb of the right hand to incapacitate for military service are com- 
mon. One-third of the suicides are ascribed to dislike of the service, 
one-third to fear of punishment and one-third to melancholia. About 
70 per cent, are accomplished by shooting and 20 per cent, by hanging. 
In the Italian army, 1874-89, the rate for suicide, per 1,000 strength, 
was .40. In 1888 it was .45 and in 1889 it was .38. Three-fourths 
of the cases are officially attributed to causes foreign to the military 
service. The rate for suicide was .24 in the Belgian army for the 
year 1891; in the Russian army it was .20 for the period 1879-89; 
in the Spanish army, for the year 1886, it was .14. 

While it is obvious that all the causes of insanity and suicide among 
troops cannot be brought under official control, it is equally clear that the 
rejection or early elimination of those of unstable mental equilibrium, or 
with tendencies toward alcoholism, will do much to reduce the rates for 
these causes. This reduction is further assisted by short periods of 
enlistment, as is the case at present, and by tours of foreign service of not 
too long duration. While the unnecessary severity of discipline which is 
maintained in foreign armies does not obtain in our own service, it should 
not be forgotten that intelligent and just administration by superior officers 
will do much to promote the mental as well as the physical welfare of the 
men over whom they have been placed in power. The contented soldier 
has no leaning toward melancholia or to self-destruction. 



54 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 

General Consideration of Climate. The primary cause of climate 
is the solar action this being regulated by the distance from the equator, 
the angle at which the sun's rays strike the earth, the length of the day, 
and the degree of refraction which the rays undergo in their passage through 
the air. The secondary causes of climate are the elevation of the land, the 
influence of the sea, winds, rainfall, storms and moisture, the nature of the 
soil, the general and local inclination of the place, the configuration of 
surface, thi amount of vegetation and extent of cultivation, the internal 
temperature of the earth, the purity and electrical state of the atmosphere. 

According to Cullimore, the influence of temperature upon health, as 
shown by the relative duration of life in the different climatic zones, is as 
follows : From the equator to the 20th degree of latitude there is 1 death 
annually to each 25 inhabitants; from the 20th to the 50th degree of lati- 
tude, 1 death to 35; from the 40th to 60th degree of latitude, 1 death to 
43; from the 60th to 80th degree of latitude 1 death in 50. In the 
north of France there is one death to each 43-44 inhabitants; in the south, 
1 in each 40 of the population. Smith states, with reference to this point : 
"It is a well established fact that a temperature of 54 F. is best adapted 
to the public health, for at that temperature the decomposition of animal 
and vegetable matter is slight and normal temperature is easily main- 
tained." 

The influence of elevation of land is second only to that of the sun, as 
measured in degrees of latitude from the equator, in its effects upon the 
character of a climate, as it renders tolerable many regions in the torrid 
/.one otherwise uninhabitable by the white race. Plains are subject to 
great difference in temperature between night and day, and plateaus to 
extremes of heat and moisture ; but isolated, flat-topped hills and hilly dis- 
tricts are more equable. Mountain ranges exercise a marked influence on 
climate; their windward and rainy sides being often deluged with rain, 
while the country beyond is dry and protected. In passing over the sum- 
mit of a mountain range, winds blow- in a slanting direction down the lee- 
ward side, becoming drier and more heated as they descend. The dis- 
tance at which they again reach the ground is said to average about 
seventy times the height of the range over which the wind has ^passed. 
The climate of valleys is influenced by the character of their inlets and 
outlets, their breadth and height, the slope and vegetation of the surround- 
ing hills, the amount of sunshine which they enjoy, and the protection 
afforded from cold or hot winds. In broad valleys, the heat during the 
day may be great, owing to reflection from the mountain sides; while 
the nights are cool, owing to rapid radiation and to the movement down- 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 851 

ward of cold currents of air from the hills. Narrow valleys are more 
equable as to temperature, but are apt to be damp, misty and lacking in 
sunshine. 

The influence of the sea is next to that of elevation of the land in 
modifying climate. It is owing to the immense preponderance of water 
over land that the average temperature of the southern hemisphere is three 
degrees lower than the northern, that the climate of high seas is so cool 
and equable, that small tropical islands approaching in character to the 
climate of high seas are generally more healthful than larger ones, and may 
be more capable of colonization by the white race. In hot climates, the 
maritime regions are never as warm as the interior of the country at the 
same level, but in cold countries the reverse is the case. In cold climates, 
also, the temperature of the coast is often increased by warm ocean currents ; 
while, on the other hand, cold currents also exist and lower the tempera- 
ture of hot regions. The effect of the sea is thus to equalize temperature ; 
the seasonal difference and that between day and night being less on the 
coast than at inland situations, while the relative humidity is generally 
great, and hot, dry and dusty winds rarely occur. The absence of cold 
winds depends mainly on the level character of the land. Marine climates 
are also cooler than those of other places at the same level, in consequence 
of the local wind, owing to the unequal heating of the land by day and 
night, while the greater humidity of the air helps to veil the rays of 
the sun. Water is heated more slowly, and gives off heat more slowly, 
than does land. It also retains it longer, and the loss by radiation is less 
than from land, while the air over it is more moist and equable than else- 
where. The specific heat of water is about five times that of earth ; water 
cooled at the surface sinks, allowing a lighter and warmer stratum to come 
to the top hence the adjacent layer of air is not cooled at night to the 
extent that it is on land. 

Wind may be defined as the movement of the air, resulting from the 
difference in its temperature at various places. Heated air rises, and that 
which is of greater density flows in to supply its place. In their effects on 
health, winds are considered with reference to their velocity, temperature and 
the amount of dust or aqueous vapor they carry. The greater the rapidity of 
their movement, the more chilling and forcible their effect. Even hot 
winds, if dry, generally cool by promoting evaporation; but if moist they 
have proportionately little effect in lowering the temperature. 

The rainfall depends on the prevailing winds, as regards their direction, 
temperature, moisture, velocity and electric state. Clouds deposit their 
contents either through the influence of cold or as the result of concussion 
or compression. Hence it is that the rainfall is greatest on the slopes of 
mountains, where a hot and moist air often first comes in contact with a 
cold one. Next to that on mountains, the rainfall is heaviest near the 
sea. The average amount of precipitation decreases from the equator to the 
poles ; while as regards the number of rainy days, except in the vicinity of 
the equator itself, the reverse is the case. The rains are periodical in the 
tropics and the summer is the rainy season, while the greatest rainfall 
occurs in winter in sub-tropical regions. In temperate climates the rains 
occur throughout the year; but the heaviest fall is in autumn, when the 
warm sea- winds first meet the earth, which at this season is beginning to 



852 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

grow cool. The rainfall on the slopes of hills increases with height up to 
great elevations ; but at the altitude of ten thousand feet it is generally slight, 
snow usually taking its place. The so-called rainless regions, where 
the winds blow constantly toward the sea, are usually excessively hot and 
comprise the barren wastes known as deserts. Owing to their size, small 
islands of level character offer no obstruction to winds which blow over 
them, and the rainfall is similar to that of the surrounding seas ; while 
forests, on the contrary, by offering a certain obstruction, cause an increased 
precipitation all around the coasts, with less in the interior and this is 
in continuation with the general effect of forests, which is to increase the 
precipitation of rain in the region surrounding them. While the princi- 
pal source of moisture is the rainfall, rainy regions may be fairly dry as 
-.egards the state of the air, owing to the heat of the sun, the small 
number of wet days, the porous nature of the soil and, on mountains, the 
inferior capacity of the air for retaining moisture. On the other hand, 
the absence of rain is sometimes compatible with considerable atmospheric 
humidity, through the lack of condensing currents of cold air. Under 
such conditions, fogs and dews may supply to some extent the want of 
rain. The amount of moisture is represented by the degree of humidity, 
which is described as absolute and relative. The latter is more important 
from a climatic point of view. It represents the ratio between the amount 
of humidity in a given quantity of air and the amount the air can carry 
without the production of rain, and must be considered in connection 
witli the temperature, the density of the air and its evaporating power, 
the latter being greater as the temperature is higher. It decreases with 
the ascent of mountains, is generally considerable over bodies of water, in- 
creases from the poles to the equator and is greatest of all in the tropics 
during the wet seasons. Moisture lessens evaporation from the skin and 
lungs, and, if the air is still, may help indirectly to increase temperature 
through its power of absorbing heat. If not accompanied by wind or 
rain, moist hot climates are more oppressive than the combination of heat 
and dryness. If the former conditions prevail, and the sky is overcast, 
the feeling even in hot countries is that of chilliness. Dry air is every- 
where more bracing; moist air more soothing, enervating and more fre- 
quently showing its effects in loss of appetite, depression of spirits and 
disorders of the kidneys, stomach and bowels. Storms are felt to the great- 
est degree near the mountains and along the seashore at the changes of the 
seasons they are most violent in the tropics and sometimes dangerous to 
the sickly. Atmospheric electricity probably exercises considerable influ- 
ence on the human organism, but present imperfect knowledge does not 
justify any definite conclusions as to its effect. 

A marked influence on the temperature and salubrity of a locality is 
exercised by its geological formation. In the tropics, it will generally be 
found that in places of moderate elevation the soil is composed of volcanic 
debris, covered with humus. This soil is comparatively healthy. In hot 
climates, a sandy soil is the most disagreeable of all ; sand being not only 
easily heated but retaining a high temperature longer than any soil. The 
effect of cultivation and moderate afforestation is generally greatly to im- 
prove the climate of a place and to render it more equable. The tempera- 
ture of the soil in forests is about twenty per cent, lower than that out- 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 853 

side, and the meaii annual temperature of the air ten per cent, lower. 
The day temperature is also lower, that of the night higher. The relative 
humidity is increased from three to ten per cent., and the rainfall is also 
greater. The air over grassy land is cooler and moister than over barren 
or sandy soil ; while that over marshes is not only colder and damper than 
in other situations, but is generally saturated at night and morning with 
mist and fog. Drainage raises the temperature of the soil of arable and 
pasture-land ; and the greater healthfulness of drained land is perhaps due, 
to some extent, to the soil-temperature being less subject to fluctuations. 

As to climate, that of the equatorial belt is characterized by great equa- 
bility, almost daily rains, cloudy skies and constant heat. The white race 
cannot become acclimated at lower levels near the equator; and the 
mountain resorts, unless very high and dry, afford no adequate change on 
account of the absence of seasons, the heavy rains and the excessive atmos- 
pheric rarefaction dependent upon the combined effects of heat and elevation. 

In the tropical region extending from the equatorial belt to the 23rd 
degree of latitude, the hot and cold seasons become gradually more marked ; 
until near the tropics, while the summer heat is intense, the cold of winter 
is perceptible and restorative. Here the hot and dry season is in the spring, 
the wet in summer and the cool in autumn and winter. In the dry, hot 
season particularly in fairly dry climates the heat before the rains is 
often almost intolerable, yet this period is perhaps the healthiest portion 
of the year. Like the equatorial belt, this region is characterized by 
marshes, jungles and great unhealthiuess, especially for the white race and 
for new-comers. Some localities are rendered additionally insalubrious by 
the presence of malarial fevers, from which the drier regions are com- 
paratively free. 

In the sub-tropical division, the mean annual temperature is said to be 
eighteen degrees lower than that for the torrid zone. The variations are 
greater, and all the meteorological phenomena less uniform. Warm weather 
still predominates, yet there is a distinct winter and the seasons of spring 
and autumn begin to be apparent. When near the tropics, these regions 
are usually subject to the diseases of the torrid zone; but when well 
drained and cultivated, and lying toward the temperate regions, they are 
generally healthy. 

Temperate climates are characterized by great variability as compared 
with the uniformity of the polar and tropical divisions. The fluctuations 
are frequent, and the mean annual oscillations of temperature vary from 
40 to 70 F., depending greatly upon local conditions. The daily varia- 
tions are also frequent, and all the seasons are distinct and nearly of equal 
duration. The spring and autumn, although agreeable, are the most un- 
healthy and the most subject to climatic disturbance. The winds are 
variable, while the rains, though less abundant and regular than in the 
tropics, are far more frequent and evenly distributed through the year. 
The rate of mortality is lower, and the longevity and intellectual and 
physical standard higher, than in warmer regions. 

Cold climates, which represent the polar extremities of the great tem- 
perate zones, are characterized by a short but brilliant summer, and by a 
winter with snow on the ground between the months of October and May. 
The diurnal range, owing to the long duration of the summer sunny days 



854 

and to the slight influence of the sun in the winter, is remarkably slight, 
and contributes materially, in spite of the chilling mists and fogs, to that 
comparative freedom from chest affections which cold climates enjoy. 
Such climates are perhaps the healthiest of all. 

Arctic regions are divided into the coast and inland ice districts. The 
climate is extremely cold, as the summer begins with July and ends 
with August. During this period, the sun remains continually above the 
horizon. Rain, sleet and snow occupy the spring and autumn. In addi- 
tion to the intense cold, sudden changes are of frequent occurrence, summer 
sunshine giving place to fogs, mists and snow. The mean temperature of 
South Greenland is 33 F. At Upernavik, the mean of summer is said 
to be 58 F. and that of winter 7 F. Snow falls to the depth of 
twenty feet in certain localities. The climate is not unhealthy ; the most 
common diseases being frost-bite, scurvy, the eruptive diseases, contagious 
skin affections and ophthalmia. 



I. 
THE HYGIENE OF HOT CLIMATES. 

The physical elements of a tropical climate, ranged according to their 
hygienic importance, are humidity, heat and lack of variety. Humidity, 
in temperate regions, generally goes with cool weather, but within the 
tropics great heat prevails when loss of heat through evaporation of per- 
spiration is retarded by a high degree of atmospheric moisture ; dry heat, 
even if prolonged and of considerable degree, is by no means as unfavor- 
able to the human organism. Everything which conduces to give variety 
to climate in the tropics affords relief. The alternating sea and land 
breezes of islands are potent forces in increasing their salubrity, and this 
is especially so when such islands are volcanic or mountainous. 

Hot climates exert an unfavorable influence on new-comers through two 
conditions, those which are meteorological and those which result from 
endemic diseases the latter being more directly dangerous. There is, 
however, ample proof that tropical heat and humidity produce marked 
changes in body-function which exert an effect adverse to the health 
and existence of all but the native-born. A brief consideration of these 
alterations of body function is important in connection with the considera- 
tion of various problems in tropical hygiene, particularly in relation to 
food and the processes of metabolism. 

Physiology of Hot Climates. The body-temperature in the tropics 
is appreciably elevated above the normal in new arrivals. Rattray, 
in his investigations upon this point, obtained the following results : 



Hour of day. 


Temperate climate, 
near England ; 
temperature, 85 F.; 
average of ten days. 


Tropics generally ; 
average 
of fifty-one days. 


1 

Equator, 
temperature, b4 F.; 
average 
of seven days. 


9A.M 


98 1 


Q8 11 


08 r > 3 


SP.M 


08 3 


no 


QQ -. 


DP.M 


98 5 


QU 47 


GO 1 










Average 


08 8 


I IS 


no no 











THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 865 

Maurel found an increase of body-heat in individuals recently arrived 
in the West Indies, ranging from .5 to .9 F. ; and Jousset noted ail 
average increase among the whites in Senegal of even greater degree. 
Fayrer states that among European residents in Bengal, the bodily tempera- 
ture is .41 F. higher than the average of healthy persons in England. 
Careful observations made on Europeans between Khartoum and the equator 
showed that for those of less than two years' residence, the body-heat aver- 
aged 1 F. above normal; while among such as had been in that region 
longer than four years, the temperature was still half a degree above normal. 
These facts are interesting and important, and, as subsequently advanced, 
may explain the" greater prevalence of disease in individuals undergoing the 
so-called process of acclimation. In temperate climates, animal-heat is 
readily lost by radiation and contact with the external air, by the heating 
of inspired air, by exhalation of moisture in the breath and by cutaneous 
evaporation. In the tropics, the difference between internal and external 
temperature is always very slight, and it may frequently happen that for 
considerable periods the heat of the surrounding atmosphere may even 
exceed that of the body. Further, the high degree of humidity ordinarily 
present in the tropics 'opposes evaporation of moisture. It therefore hap- 
pens, through these changed conditions, that, instead of being concerned 
with the dissipation of heat, the vital forces must frequently ueutrali/e 
heat-reception in order to keep the bodily temperature down to normal. 
This produces an alteration in metabolism and throws additional work on 
the kidneys and liver ; for an excess of nutritive material, which in tem- 
perate climates would be oxidized in the production of heat, requires here 
to be merely excreted. Serious and unusual demands are thus made upon 
the excretory organs and their resistance is distinctly lowered and in this 
state they are not infrequently called upon to eliminate the toxins of certain 
infectious diseases so common in some portions of the tropics that the 
stranger can scarcely hope entirely to escape them. 

A loss of body-weight occurs in hot countries, and the same is com- 
monly observed in summer in the temperate zone. Rattray noted that, with 
an average temperature of 80 F.,the loss of weight among a body of Brit- 
ish marines averaged eleven pounds per man during the period of one year. 
The decrease was greater when salt provisions were given and the air was 
loaded with moisture ; the loss of weight when hard labor was required being 
even greater and more rapid. In the dry season forty-four per cent. , and in 
the wet season seventy-six per cent. , of the individuals observed by him lost 
in weight. Rattray concluded that this effect was due to the destructive in- 
fluence of prolonged heat upon the cellular elements of th^orgauism, together 
with imperfect oxj'genation. Adipose tissue, as a non-conducting layer, is 
undoubtedly potent in conserving internal heat and diminishing the effect of 
outside low temperature. In cold regions, the proportion of fat normally 
present in the organism is much greater than in warm climates, where the 
storing up of fats in human tissue is rare, and even the artificial fattening 
of animals is accomplished with the greatest difficulty. In cold climates, 
on the contrary, considerable deposition of fatty material is the rule. The 
animal flesh of the far north, as seal, bear and walrus meat, is notoriously 
rich in fats ; while the chief protection of the whale against the cold of 
the polar seas is the thick layer of blubber in which the muscular structure 



856 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

is enveloped. Viewed from this standpoint, the decrease of body-fat which 
occurs in the tropics may be looked upon as one of the most important 
processes by which the adaptation of the organism to changed conditions 
of temperature, through better dissipation of body-heat, is accomplished. 
The discomfort of the obese during warm weather is proverbial; and hence 
loss of weight, provided the decrease is strictly limited to adipose tissue, 
may lie regarded as wholly beneficial. It is obvious that any excess of 
food above the nutritive requirements of the organism, which in temperate 
climates is largely converted into systemic fat, cannot be devoted to this 
purpose in the tropics with either facility or advantage. 

Tropical heat directly lowers the pulse-rate ; Eattray finding that the 
average rate of cardiac action in the tropics was less by two and one-half 
beats per minute than in the temperate zone. The following results were 
. Uained by him: 



Hour. 


Number of 

observations. 


TROPICS. 


TEMPERATE ZONE. 


Lowest. 


Highest. 


Range. 


Average. 


Average. 


9AM 


53 
53 
49 


66 
68 
73 


112 
108 
110 


46 
42 
37 


86.4 
88.8 
87.3 


91.7 
88.1 
90.5 


8 p M 


9 P.M 


Average 










87.5 


, 90.1 





This reduction of the pulse-rate is doubtless related to the diminished 
respirator)' function ; and further observation proves what the latter fact 
suggests namely, that in the tropics the pulse is diminished not only in 
frequency but in force. The low arterial tension always noted in hot 
climates is a direct result of loss of fluid through increased perspiration, 
favored by a relaxed state of the capillaries. 

The first effect of tropical heat is to increase the respiratory capacity. 
This has been shown by Rattray by means of the spirometer; his obser- 
vations being subsequently confirmed by others. The results obtained by 
this investigator are as follows : 

Average capacity 
of chest in cubic 

inches. 
Temperate zone near England, at sea^June. Thermometer 65 F. 

Hygrometer 2.5 P 256.083 

Tropics, at sea July. Thermometer 78 F. Hygrometer 4 F 280.75 

Tropics, at sea August. Thermometer 83 F. Hygrometer 4 F 287.416 

Temperate zone near England, at sea September. Thermometer 

65 F. Hydrometer 1.5 F 260.25 

Temperate zone, England February. Thermometer 42 F. Hygrom- 
eter 8 F 253.727 

The average gain in lung-capacity noted by him for the tropics was 31.4163 
cubic inches; the percentage of gain, as compared with the temperate zone, 
amounting to 12.24 per cent. Cullimore, however, states that this increase 
in lung-capacity does not continue, and that, after a period ranging from 
six months to two years, it falls below the level for Europe. 

Closely allied to the foregoing is the influence of tropical climate on 
the frequency of respiration. In heated air-chambers, the rate of respira- 
tion becomes less in man, and Vierordt and Ludwig long since found that 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 



857 



the same results were obtained in animals subjected to great heat. Rat- 
tray's observations as to the comparative frequency of respirations in hot 
and cool climates are as follows : 







3 . 












s c 


1*1 


|u| 


1^1 






|U 


= lf 


e > 


tH 


Temperate zone. . 


England in summer June. 


62 


18 


13.5 


15.68 


Tropics 


England in winter February. 
Equatorial doldrums outward voyage 


42.25 

78 74 


17.5 
14 5 


15 
11 


16.5 
12 74 




Equatorial doldrums, return voyage. 


78.6 


15 


12 


13.74 



Not only is the respiratory action markedly decreased in hot climates, but 
the greater quantity of air taken in at each inspiration in the tropics does 
not make up for the diminished number of respirations in supplying the 
same amount of oxygen to the blood as in cold climates. Using the above 
data, Rattray calculated the deficiency in the oxygen inspired in the tropics 
to be as follows : 



Climate. 


Cubic inches in 
each inspiration. 


Number of 
Inspirations per 
minute. 


Cubic incheH 
respired. 


England 


15.000 


17 


255000 


Tropics 


16.836 


14 


285704 











Difference in favor of a temperate climate, 19.296 cubic inches, or 7.567 per cent. 

"This decrease of 7.567 per cent, in the quantity of air respired daily, 
diminishes the quantity of carbon which the lungs in ordinary circumstances 
can throw off in the tropics by .7567 ounce; 10 ounces being taken as 
the average amount thrown off in temperate climates will give 9.243 ounces 
as the amount for the tropics. But as tropical air contains less oxygen for 
a given bulk than air of colder latitudes, through the expansion of gases by 
heat, the decarbonising capabilities of the lungs in tropical latitudes will 
evidently be still further curtailed and the amount of carbon they can 
throw off considerably decreased. Air increases by ^-J-g- its volume for 
every Fahrenheit degree of heat, and the difference between the temper- 
atures in which these experiments were carried on being 18 F. (65 and 
83 F.), if we reduce the amount inspired in the tropics by a -fa part, this 
will give its equivalent bulk in the temperate zone, thus: 



285.704 



2.V..70-1 
18 ~ 1.0375 



= ','27. 1846 cubic inches. 



which is equal to a decrease of 8.5194 cubic inches, or 3.614 per cent. 
Then 255 minus 227.1846 cubic inches give 27.8154 cubic inches per 
minute, or 1,668.924 cubic inches per hour, or 40,054.176 cubic inches per 
day = 10.907 per cent, as the grand total difference in favor of a temper- 
ate climate, after deducting the real increase in volume and correcting for 
expansion of heat. By again reducing the 9.243 ounces of carbon by 
3.614 per cent., or .33409 ounce, we get 8.909 ounces as the total amount 



858 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

which the lungs throw off in the tropics, the difference between the tropical 
and extra-tropical qualities being 1.1028 ounces." 

The explanation of the variation in respiratory capacity, noted above, 
would appear to be due to the fact that there is no actual increase for the 
tropics in the size of the chest and enclosed lungs, but only an alteration 
in the relative proportion of blood and air contained in the 'latter. The 
bulk of the lungs remaining the same in the tropics as in cold latitudes, or 
being, as shown by Parkes, even somewhat diminished from their compar- 
ative abeyance as excreting and heat-generating organs, the blood, diverted 
to the functionally excited and congested skin and liver, permits the in- 
gress of a larger quantity of air into the pulmonary air-cells. 

With the diminution in arterial tension there is, also, at eack respira- 
tory movement, less blood forced through the lungs than in the temperate 
climate, and this diminution necessarily implies a lessened value to the 
respiratory act. Further, the air in the tropics is rarefied, and pressure, 
which rules the conditions of pulmonary endosmosis, is diminished ; hence 
it may be that the air reaches the pulmonary alveoles under pressure in- 
sufficient properly to force it into the pulmonary capillaries. The defi- 
ciency of oxygen taken into the organism in the tropics, as influenced by 
the above factors, may therefore be considered to be made up approximately 
as follows : 

Lessened value of respiratory act 7.5 per cent. 

Rarefaction of air 3.6 

Diminished cardiac action 3 

Decreased air pressure 2.2 

Total 16.3 " 

It is undoubtedly true that less oxygen is required by the organism in 
the high temperatures of the tropics. Through decreased exertion, a. 
smaller amount is required for the metamorphosis of waste particles, and, 
where lessened necessity and desire for food diminish the ingesta, less is 
required for direct combination with the nutritive elements in the produc- 
tion of energy. It is probable, however, that there is a somewhat in- 
creased absorption of oxygen in hot climates by the functionally excited 
skin, which may, to a slight degree, act vicariously as a respiratory organ 
and so lessen the amount required by the lungs. Furthermore, the skin is 
aided in relieving the lungs, in the decarbonizing process, by the function- 
ally excited liver and kidneys, which eliminate carbon in forms which do 
not require much oxygen for their formation, namely, as bile and uric acid. 

Where the blood does not obtain a proper supply of oxygen, its vital 
properties are diminished ; a fact soon apparent in the deficient nutrition 
of the organism, and the depraved condition by which not only is liability 
to disease increased but also the probability of a fatal termination should 
disease occur. Deficient oxygenatiou, combined with heat, exerts a directly 
deteriorating influence on the blood corpuscles. Cullimore states that the 
blood corpuscles frequently diminish to as low as 3,000,000 per cubic mil- 
limeter after long sojourn in the tropics, and that the quantity of haemo- 
globin is also much decreased. Every resident in the tropics early becomes 
anaemic ; the heat often being assisted by malarial influences in deteriorat- 
ing the function and diminishing the number of red blood corpuscles 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 859 

The amount of sweat is greatly increased. Fonssagrives states that it 
is double the average amount secreted in Europe, often amounting to four 
or five pounds in the twenty-four hours. The amount of solids eliminated 
in this manner, however, is not proportionately increased. In addition, the 
secretion of sebum is more abundant than in temperate climates. In this 
connection, Hill says: "There are certain peculiarities in the natives of Eu- 
ropean countries that must strike the pathologist as intimately connected 
with the nature and treatment of diseases. These are chiefly the complex- 
ion of the skin, the large development of the respiratory and biliary, nervous 
and circulating organs, compared with the natives of intertropical countries. 
The skin of the dark races is not only different in color, but it is also con- 
siderably modified in texture, so as to enable it to perform a greater extent 
of function than the more delicately formed skin of the white variety of the 
species. The thick dark rete mucosum of the former is evidently more 
suited to the warm and moist climates of the tropics than that with which 
the latter variety is provided. The skin of the negro is a much more active 
organ of depuration than that of the white. It not merely exhales a larger 
proportion of aqueous fluid and carbonic acid from the blood, but it also 
elaborates a more unctuous secretion, which by its abundance and sensible 
properties evidently possesses a considerable influence in counteracting the 
heating effects of the sun's rays upon the body, and in carrying off the 
superabundant caloric. While the active functions thus tend to diminish 
the heat of the body and prevent its excessive increase by the temperature 
of the climate, the materials that require removal from the blood are elimi- 
nated by this surface, which in the negro especially performs excreting 
functions, very evidently in aid of those of respiration and of biliary secre- 
tion. In the white variety of the species, on the other hand, the functions 
of the lungs and liver are much more active than in the darker races, 
changes to a greater extent being performed by respiration in the former 
than the latter. The liver is also larger and its secretion more copious in 
the European than in the African or Asiatic." When the air is dry and 
in a highly electrical condition, skin action is greatly facilitated. It then 
becomes a refrigerating apparatus of remarkable power, being sufficient to 
protect the organism against the highest temperature. 

As a result of increased perspiration, there is a diminished excretion of 
urine, the reduction amounting to about one-third of the usual amount in 
temperate climates. Mourson states that the diminution in the output of 
urea usually amounts to about ten or fifteen per cent. According to Eijk- 
man, Europeans who had been in Java from two to six months excreted 
an average of 14.8 gm. of nitrogen daily, or .226 gm. per kilogram of 
body-weight, while those who had lived in the tropics one and one-half 
to fifteen years excreted an average of 12.802 gm. of nitrogen daily, or 
.193 gm. per kilogram of body-weight. Such decrease in eliminatory 
function on the part of the kidneys, according to Moore, is followed by 
increased secretory action of the liver, whereby some effete matter is 
passed into the intestines with the bile. But increased liver action is 
accompanied by congestion, and constant congestion frequently by hepatic 
deposit and degeneration, with impairment of function. 

Through the loss of fluid resulting from increased perspiration, there is 
a diminution in the secretion of saliva, mucus, the gastric and pancreatic 



860 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

juices and the bile. As a consequence, also, there is dryness of the throat 
and fauces and exaggeration of thirst, weakness of appetite, impaired diges- 
tion gastric fullness after eating and habitual constipation ; these, accord- 
ing to Nielly , being digestive phenomena constantly observed in the tropics. 
The increased loss of fluid causes a corresponding thirst, and the resulting 
increased ingestion of fluids by the new arrival is without doubt a cause for 
sickness, since it dilutes the gastric juice, impairs digestion and favors 
diarrhoea. In addition, the change of diet necessitated by residence in 
the tropics, together with the presence of unaccustomed forms of bacteria, 
is protie to cause a certain amount of gastro-intestinal disturbance even 
in the most careful individuals. 

Upon the nervous system, a marked effect is exerted by heat and moist- 
ure, and a depression of vital and nervous energy is induced far exceeding 
that ordinarily observed in temperate climates. The brain suffers with the 
system in general it would appear to more than its proper proportion. 
Certain it is that, in the tropics, persons even in fair bodily health find 
themselves, so far as intellectual work is concerned, at a very low ebb ; soon 
wearied, fagged and unable to concentrate their ordinary amount of brain- 
power on any one subject. This diminution in capacity for mental labor is 
often followed by reduced powers of memory and is usually accompanied 
by nervousness and irritability. 

Acclimation. According to Eochoux, the process of acclimation con- 
sists in "a profound change in the organism, produced by a prolonged so- 
journ in a place where climate is widely different to that to which one is 
accustomed and which has the effect of rendering the individual who has 
leen subjected to it similar in many respects to the natives of the country 
which he has adopted " and Aitken, who quotes this observation, supple- 
ments it by saying : " The process takes place to a certain extent, so far as 
some individuals are concerned, but the ability to become acclimated is not 
possessed to the same extent by all nations." 

That residence in hot climates, under the circumstances of ordinary life, 
has an adverse effect on the white race cannot be doubted. Some consti- 
tutions seem to be altogether unfitted for undergoing high temperature and 
{^eat humidity, and such individuals lose their health and physical energy 
from the moment of their arrival in the tropics. A still larger number do 
so sooner or later under a more protracted residence, even if they escape 
being attacked by the endemic or epidemic diseases incidental to such 
climates and hence the question of acclimation assumes great practical 
importance from the military standpoint. 

As compared with whites, the African and Asiatic races possess a rela- 
tive immunity to many diseases common in low latitudes, and an admix- 
ture of such blood confers an undoubted resistance to the prejudicial ef- 
fects of a hot climate. It is a matter of common knowledge that the 
half-castes of such races, brought to the tropics, are often able to survive 
without difficulty in regions inimical to occupancy by white men. The fact 
seems to be well established that, among whites, Semitic peoples possess 
a power of acclimation or adaptability to tropical climates superior to that 
enjoyed by the Aryan races ; and among the latter the inhabitants of 
southern countries the Spaniards, Portuguese, Maltese and Sicilians are 
superior in this respect to those of the north. Next to the Jews, the gyp- 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 861 

sies are probably the most cosmopolitan. In the French expeditions in 
the tropics, the zouaves and troops with an admixture of Arab blood and 
in less degree the troops coming from southern France, have suffered less 
from typhoid and other forms of fever than have those from the north. 
The Anglo-Saxon branch of the Teutonic stock is severely handicapped by 
nature in the struggle to colonize the tropics ; and Kipley gives the follow- 
ing table as showing the relative disabilities of Europeans in Algeria, on 
this point, for the years 1855-56. 





Births per 1.000 
population. 


Deaths per 1,000 
population. 


Spaniards 


46 


30 


Maltese 


44 


30 


Italians : 


39 


28 


French 


41 


43 


Germans 


31 


56 









It is not at all easy to say, however, how much of the excess of mortality 
of Europeans in tropical and sub-tropical countries, over that of the natives, 
is simply attributable, to climate per se and is consequently inevitable, or 
how much of it is the direct consequence of unsuitable habits of life and of 
the neglect of sanitary laws and of personal hygiene. It may be said, in 
general, that the only real acclimation in warm countries is that which en- 
ables the white race to enjoy health equal to that of the natives, while con- 
stantly performing hard manual labor in the open air and this is not 
considered possible by most authorities. It cannot be denied that the 
Spanish nation in which, it should be mentioned, there is a considerable 
element of Moorish blood has met with a certain degree of success in 
colonizing tropical countries ; but this has not been as an agricultural class, 
and it is none the less true that it is the only white- nation which has suc- 
ceeded to any degree in establishing a foothold in the tropics. In India, 
it is an axiom that English stock cannot exist beyond the third generation. 
The new arrival in the tropics is usually condemned to undergo certain 
diseases prevalent in such climates, and if these are not fatal a certain de- 
gree of tolerance to altered atmospheric or other influences, in a fair pro- 
portion of cases, is undoubtedly acquired; but that this latter class, at any 
portion of its existence, possesses the immunity to tropical disease which 
is so marked a characteristic of the natives must be denied. The attempt 
at the acclimation of the white race in the torrid zone is a procedure 
fraught with difficulty and danger and is usually compromised by unfavor- 
able endemic influences. Experiment has demonstrated that in animals 
there is a definite connection between an elevated body temperature and the 
liability to disease of an infectious character. Whether this accounts for 
the greater susceptibility to disease existing in unacclimated individuals in 
the tropics is an open question ; but it is certain that strangers are most 
liable to sickness during .the period immediately following their arrival, 
when their temperature is above the native normal. As far back as 1788, 
Hunter wrote : " Those who are just arrived from cool and healthy climates 
are particularly subject to fevers, as is daily experienced by all new-comers. 
A regiment always loses a greater proportion of men in the first year than 
afterward, supposing their fitness to be the same." This point is well illus- 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE; 

trated by Marston in the following table, showing the death rate of British 
white troops in India, per thousand of each class, for different periods of 
residence in that country, based upon statisics for the period 1877-84. 



Year. 


First and 
second years of 
service. 


Third to sixth 
years of 
service, inclusive. 


Seventh to tenth 
years of 
service, inclusive. 


1877 


3.31 


1.35 


0.90 


1878 


7.90 


2.64 


1.38 


1879 


7.99 


2.18 


1.24 


1880 


9.08 


1.78 


.47 


1881 


4.55 


2.07 


.56 


1882 


4.68 


1.93 


.34 


1883 


4.98 


1.55 


.55 


1884 


5.47 


1.55 


.46 











All authorities agree that the regions of the tropics where acclimation 
of the white race is most difficult of accomplishment are to be found in the 
areas of excessive humidity. Hence any alleged successful examples of 
tropical colonization should always be examined in the light of this con- 
dition. Wherever there are perceptible seasons of heat and cold, the ad- 
justment of the organism of the foreigner to a new environment is more 
readily accomplished; and this is one advantage of the climate of tropical 
plateaus, where both daily and seasonal variations of temperature are com- 
paratively great. 

It has repeatedly been demonstrated that most attempts at gradual ac- 
climation are futile, except as regards the season for arrival, and do not 
serve to protect against the endemic diseases of the tropics ; particularly in 
the case of malaria there being no such thing as an acquired immunity. 
It is best, therefore, to send troops direct to their post of duty from a tem- 
perate station. Where new troops are destined for an extremely unhealth- 
ful locality they may, however, on landing, be sent for a brief period to a 
high and salubrious station to become partially accustomed to new condi- 
tions of climate and environment. 

Composition of Military Forces. From what has just been said, it is 
evident that troops detailed to the tropics should, for the United States ser- 
vice, be as far as possible recruited in the southern states, and particularly 
from those bordering on the Gulf of Mexico. A large proportion of such 
forces will with advantage be recruited from the negro population of these 
warmer districts it being well demonstrated that the negro enlisted from the 
northern states has, through his environment, largely lost his racial insuscep- 
tibility to typhoid, malarial and yellow fevers. It will also be of the utmost 
advantage to organize a considerable proportion of the troops required for 
colonial service from the acclimated natives of the region within which 
military forces must be maintained. This policy is largely employed by 
England, France and Germany ; the French colonial forces being said to 
be made up of 18,000 white troops and 16,000 natives. In the British 
military service, the native troops serving in the tropics are about two and 
one-half times greater in number than the Europeans ; and in the most 
uuhealthful colonies, the proportion of native soldiers is four, five or as in 
Sierra Leone six times greater than that of the white troops. This ex- 
ample should be followed in our own service and there should certainly be 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 863 

a sufficient native force to garrison the more unsalubrious stations ; the re- 
cent organization of native regiments in the Philippines and in Porto Rico 
being of much advantage. Such native troops escape much of the sickness 
which must be regarded as inevitably attaching to foreign forces, as has al- 
ready been shown in connection with the diseases of the soldier, and hence 
their constant rate of effectiveness is higher. Concerning this point, Lemure 
writes: "During the active period of (French) operations in Dahomey, 
August to December, 1892, the rate of deaths from disease among the 
European troops was 111 per 1,000; among the natives 15.1 per 1,000." 

Speaking broadly, the nearer in physical type, temperament and com- 
plexion the soldiers detailed for tropical service approach to the natives of 
such climates in these respects, the more likely they are to stand the climate 
and to prove healthier than fair-skinned men of larger stature who, on the 
other hand, are far better adapted for hard and arduous work and supreme 
physical effort in cold or temperate regions. For service in hot climates, 
men of medium stature, spare frame, dark hair and complexion, and thick 
skins may be expected to retain their health and to make the more en- 
during and efficient soldiers. It is of importance that only those should 
l>e selected for such service as show no signs of actual or latent disease, 
have become accustomed to the conditions of the military life, and are sea- 
soned, mature and well developed. The filling up of regiments in the trop- 
ics with untrained and youthful recruits is a mistaken and wasteful policy ; 
and all recruits should be re-examined before embarkation with respect to 
their fitness for tropical service. In the French colonial service, only those 
men are permitted to take the field who have attained the age of twenty-two 
years, have been one year in the service and are of robust constitution and 
full-blooded habit. The commander-iu-chief of the British forces in India, 
in 1876, officially expressed his belief that the soldier was at his best, for 
duty in that country, at the age of twenty-seven to thirty years of age and 
after five years' residence in India ; the adjutant-general being of the opin- 
ion that the British soldier was most fit for tropical service at the age of 
twenty-seven years. No soldier was accepted for the British Ashanti ex- 
pedition, in 1895, who was not at least twenty-three years of age and had 
not had as much as three years' previous military service. The vast im- 
}>ortauce of age and previous service in relation to sickness and mortality 
in the tropics has also been brought out in previous chapters, and it may 
l>e accepted as being most undesirable to send recruits under the age of 
twenty-four years to stations in the low latitudes. 

It is important that troops to be sent to the tropics should consist of 
well-disciplined and not newly raised men, for the latter, being less orderly 
and discreet and not accustomed to the life of the soldier, suffer far more 
from the climatic and environmental conditions than those habituated to 
discipline and control. In addition, it is extremely difficult properly to drill 
and instruct men in a climate where there are so many opposing conditions 
to be encountered and where the great heat renders it impossible to exercise 
in the 0]>en air except for a short time in the morning or evening. 

Season for Arrival. This is a matter of much importance, and 
the military history of even- colonizing nation shows illustrations of 
the grave consequences which have followed neglect in this respect. In 
the British expeditions on the west coast of Africa, prior to 1873, the re- 



864 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE, 

suits were uniformly disastrous and the sickness and mortality little short 
of appalling. In the Ashanti expedition of that year, however, the oper- 
ations were strictly limited to the healthy season and the sickness and loss 
of life attained only insignificant proportions. The rainy season is much 
more dangerous to the unacclimated, and it is advisable, where prolonged 
residence in the tropics is anticipated, that the organism be in a certain 
degree prepared for the arrival of this season by a previous existence of 
several months under the new conditions. By such an arrangement, the 
suddenness of transition from a healthy climate to the most sickly season 
of an insalubrious one is avoided, the clothing and diet are more gradually 
modified, the system has a better opportunity to accommodate itself to a 
change of function, and the uuhealthful season, when it does come, is met 
by constitutions modified to such extent as to have lost something of their 
impressibility to endemic causes of disease. Hence, time spent in delaying 
the embarkation of troops to a more favorable moment is not lost, but will 
lie more than compensated for by time saved from restrained methods of life 
or jierhaps confinement to bed during acclimation in an unfavorable season. 
England and Germany have issued formal advice to intending colonists in 
respect to the time for arrival, and do not, except from urgent necessity, 
send civil or military officials to the tropics during the rainy season. This 
is a rational precaution which should be carefully observed in our own 
service, and, as far as possible, all movements of troops to the tropics 
should be so timed as to result in their arrival during the months of 
December and January. 

Food. With respect to the quantity of food necessary to the mainte- 
nance of health and vigor in the tropics, it may be premised at the outset 
that this is less than would be required in colder climates, provided that 
the amount of external muscular work to be performed is the same in both 
instances. In considering the question of tropical dietaries, the fact that 
food gives rise to both heat and energy, when taken into the system, is too 
often overlooked. These, within certain limits, are complementary and 
vary inversely with each other but the material from which both have 
their origin is fixed in quantity and has a definite chemical composition. 
A given amount of nutritive material has thus a positive potential value ; it 
will give rise to a variable amount of animal warmth and will permit the 
accomplishment of a variable quantity of external muscular work, but the 
sum of the two will never be greater than the caloric value of the quantity 
of food from which both were derived. Force and heat cannot be created 
from nothing. On the other hand, a portion of the food ingested may be 
excreted unused without passing into the system ; or if it be digested and 
absorbed it may not at once be utilized, in which case the excess is stored 
up as fat within the organism, and becomes a reserve supply of heat-gen- 
erating and force-producing material which can subsequently be $rawn 
upon as the needs of the system may require. It is evident that in the 
tropics, from the high external temperature, little food is required to main- 
tain the proper degree of animal warmth, and that the chief problem relates 
to the dissipation of such body-heat as may be produced beyond the needs 
of the system as evidenced by the abnormally high bodily temperature 
noted in new arrivals in the tropics. Hence, if the external muscular 
work done in the tropics is the same as in colder climates, the difference 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 865 

in the quantities of food required in both cases, over and above the amount 
necessary for the production of the energy needed in the performance of 
this fixed amount of work, will vary with the difference between the body- 
temperature and the temperature of the surrounding air. More food is 
obviously required for the maintenance of normal body-temperature when 
the surrounding air has a temperature of, say, 40 F. than when the latter 
is heated up to 85 F. 

It is true that, with the same diet, an excess of nutritive material not 
required for purposes of warmth or repair, if not stored up within the 
organism, might be used in the creation of energy, and thus would be 
available for the accomplishment of more work than would be possible in 
colder climates, where a larger proportion of the food must be devoted to 
the production of body-heat; but in practice this is not the case, no 
greater amount of work can be accomplished by the individual in the trop- 
ics in fact, experience shows that even less is possible and the storage or 
elimination of an unused excess of food, for the reasons previously detailed, 
is undesirable. These points can be illustrated by supposing a furnace 
having two steam boilers, one being used for the supply of steam necessary 
in heating a building during winter, while the steam in the other boiler 
furnishes motive power by which work is performed. By the combustion 
in a given time of a definite quantity of coal in this furnace, a definite 
quantity of energy is liberated which is variously manifested as heat used 
in warming the building or power for the performance of work, but the sum 
total of heat and work can equal only the energy latent in the fixed quan- 
tity of fuel consumed during the given period. If the weather so moderate 
as to allow great reduction or even the discontinuance of the operation of 
the steam-heating apparatus, it is evident that the fixed quantity of fuel 
is capable, through its combustion, of supplying additional energy manifest- 
ing itself as an increase in motive power by which more work can be per- 
formed. But if an increase in the work done cannot be accomplished by 
reason of the limits of strength of the operating machinery, if it cannot be 
run either at greater speed or for longer hours, it is obvious that this addi- 
tional supply of available energy cannot be utilized to advantage, and if 
the full amount of coal be actually consumed, the excess of steam produced 
must be discharged and let go to waste. 

The amount of food required by the human organism thus depends 
upon two factors, the work to be done and the animal heat to be created , 
and these cannot be properly considered except in relation with each other. 
Hence, under exhausting labors and fatigues, with corresponding wear and 
tear of the muscular system, in the tropics as well as in cooler climates, a 
liberal supply of food is required in the production of energy and repair of 
systemic losses, and this is used by the soldier, under such circumstances, 
with satisfaction and advantage. On the other hand, both theoretical con- 
siderations and practical experience go to show that soldiers need less food 
than is ordinarily required in temperate climates, and at first are prone 
to eat too much, particularly of nitrogenous and fatty matter. Ultimately/ 
however, after a sojourn of varying length in the tropics, want of appetite 
nature's provision against excess intervenes to diminish the dangers of 
over-eating. 

With respect to the quantity of food required in the tropics, it should 
55 



866 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

be remembered that both the digestive and assimilative functions are im- 
paired under the influence of prolonged heat. Hence, work should not be 
imposed upon the alimentary tract in excess of its powers and the diet 
should be restricted as compared with that of temperate climates; particu- 
larly since both diarrho3a and dysentery are known to be favored by the 
presence of a large amount of undigested food in the intestine, while tropi- 
cal anemia may l>e hastened by mal-assimilation resulting from over- 
taxation of the digestive processes. The respiration, as has already been 
shown, is much less energetic after arrival in the tropics, and this, com- 
bined with the rarefaction of the atmosphere and other factors, results in a 
much less amount of oxygen being introduced into the organism than is 
the case in temperate climates. If this reduced quantity of oxygen finds 
in the organism an excess of alimentary substances, it is evident that the 
oxidation of the latter will be delayed even if ultimately complete, and the 
equilibrium of nutrition is thus impaired. It may fairly be assumed that 
the decrease in the quantity of carbon which the lungs can throw off in 
the tropics, amounting, as has been shown, to probably about sixteen per 
cent., is an indication for the regulation of the diet as to kind and its corre- 
sponding reduction as to quantity. Further, according to Foster, the amount 
of heat evolved by the internal organs depends largely on their stimulation. 
In the case of the salivary glands, the temperature of the saliva during irri- 
tation of the chorda has been found to be 1 to 1.5 higher than that of 
the blood in -the carotid artery at the same time ; and he states that, in all 
probability, the investigation of other secreting glandular organs under 
excitement would yield similar results. Particularly is this true of the 
liver an organ in which a large amount of heat is produced, as is shown 
by the fact that a temperature of 40.73 C. has been observed in the he- 
patic vein, while that of the right heart was 37.7 C. and that of the inferior 
vena cava 38.35 C. Hence, the excitation of the liver, through either 
the improper selection of foods or an excess of nutritive material requiring 
disposal, is to be avoided in hot climates. It is obvious that the consump- 
tion of an excess of food for the production of internal heat is here as un- 
necessary as it is undesirable ; while the nutritive needs of the organism 
require a smaller amount of material to repair the systemic losses resulting 
from the usually less active life of the tropics. 

On the other hand, the conservation of the appetite to a reasonable 
pxtent, when seriously impaired by the effects of prolonged heat, is de- 
sirable in the diminution of anaemia and probably in the liability to mal- 
arial and other infectious diseases. To maintain a sufficient desire for 
food, the diet and its preparation should be frequently varied. The meager 
breakfast which suffices the native of the tropics, usually merely a cup 
of black coffee and a bit of bread, does not meet the wants of the United 
States soldier in hot countries. The morning repast should be light,, how- 
ever, and by no means as substantial as is required in colder climates. 
Under no circumstances should the work of the day be begun until the 
appetite is moderately satisfied. Troops should be served with breakfast 
at about six o'clock, while dinner, th.e heavy meal of the day, should 
be taken about 11:30 o'clock. Supper should be light and should be 
served at about 5 :30 in the afternoon. Food should not be eaten be- 
tween meals, nor should articles of food be brought into the barracks. The 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 867 

purchase by the men of food from native sources should be discouraged ; 
this is particularly important during campaign, and during the last 
Ashanti expedition the British soldiers were not permitted to use food 
outside that officially provided. 

Nothing is more certain than that the character of the diet should vary 
with the climate ; a fact too frequently ignored by whites sojourning in 
the tropics. In selecting the food for such climates, care should naturally 
be taken to use but slightly those substances which go so largely to the 
production of animal heat; since the dissipation of the latter, for the rea- 
sons already enumerated, is but poorly accomplished. In character, the 
food should be plain and simple, readily digestible and nourishing without 
being too stimulating. While careful regulation of the food-supply is thus 
necessary, it is not expedient to imitate the natives of the tropics too 
closely in the special character of the articles of their diet, although it is 
none the less true that the food of the foreigner should possess such nutri- 
tive elements as, when taken together, would approach their dietary stan- 
dards. Habit, in the selection of articles of food, is to a certain degree 
hereditary, and the digestive machinery is not adapted to excessive or too 
sudden changes. Considerable modification of the ordinary dietary is cer- 
tainly necessary not only in the interests of a lessened heat-production, 
but also so as not seriously to impair the digestive powers -but these 
changes do not necessarily require any modification in the character of the 
articles of the ration as at present supplied. The best diet for the tropics 
does not depend upon the use or disuse of any particular food-stuffs, as rice 
or bacon, but has relation merely to the proportion in which the proximate 
principles exist in the daily dietary, as expressed in terms of Calories and 
grams of fat, protein and carbohydrates. Rice is the chief article of diet 
among the inhabitants of the tropics, and is eaten in large quantities. 
The new-comer, however, cannot properly digest such a bulky diet ; and - 
even the natives are compelled to excite gastric secretion by the free use 
of peppers and other condiments, which, in large quantities, in the un- 
accustomed stomach of the foreigner, may tend to produce intestinal 
catarrh and indigestion. 

Vegetables should form a large part of the food provided for troops ; 
but care should be taken that they are always of good quality, and are fresh 
and properly cooked. Possessing a comparatively low nutritive value, the 
desired distention of the stomach should be given by foods of this class, and 
by their use constipation is largely prevented. In respect to their selection, 
reliance can safely be had upon the vegetable material at hand so abun- 
dantly provided by nature for human consumption. Rice is readily digested, 
but should be used by the foreigner only in connection with other foods ; and 
the same applies to yams, sweet potatoes and other tropical vegetables. 
The latter, being obtained fresh, may frequently be issued with advantage in 
place of vegetables transported from temperate climates, which deteriorate 
rapidly on arrival. Dry leguminous foods, as beans, peas and lentils, are 
highly nitrogenous, yet are less readily digested than meats. They should 
be used sparingly, and preferably in soups rather than any other form. They 
must be well cooked, as they are not otherwise acted on with advantage by 
the digestive juices. The use of raw vegetables, in salads, is not desirable 
for troops in the tropics, as favoring diarrhoea and dysentery ; and during 



868 

the prevalence of diseases affecting the alimentary tract their use should be 
prohibited. A diet chiefly vegetable has been thought by some to favor 
the occurrence of tropical anaemia, but such objection is purely theoretical 
and not supported by facts. The Brahmins of India are strictly vegetarian 
in their diet, yet their freedom from disease, their physical powers and ex- 
pectation of life are said to be fully as great as those of the other native 
classes in contact with which they live. 

A vegetable diet in the tropics is soon craved by all, and if this be not 
supplied, soldiers will have recourse to native fruits, often to excess. Ripe 
fruit plucked directly from the tree is usually wholesome ; but when handled 
by dirty and possibly diseased natives, placed in filthy receptacles and 
stored temporarily in possibly infected places, it becomes a potent factor in 
the production of disease. This is especially the case with pineapples and 
such other fruits as are ordinarily peeled by the native vendors and exposed 
for sale in this condition to the sun, dust and flies. The danger in the use 
of fruit in the tropics is not so much due to its possession of any inherent 
deleterious qualities as it is to its frequent contamination with pathogenic 
bacteria before consumption. Oranges are particularly agreeable and bene- 
ficial and may be taken freely. Bananas should be used somewhat spar- 
ingly as being liable to produce indigestion and diarrhoea, and, like plan- 
tains, should preferably be taken cooked according to the native custom. 
Pineapples are not readily digested and should not be used in excess. 
Mangoes are much used by the natives as food. They are popularly sup- 
posed in India to give rise to boils, and in tropical America to produce 
yellow fever; apparently because these affections are most prevalent at 
a season when the mango is ripe, or shortly afterward. Cocoanuts, sapo- 
dillas, sugar-apples, mammey-apples, and other fruits may be used raw in 
moderation ; but where its nature permits, such fruit is stewed with ad- 
. vantage. While fruit should habitually be used as a laxative in overcom- 
ing the constipating effect of climate, it should be remembered that its 
excessive consumption by the stranger is certain to be followed by intes- 
tinal disturbance. It is scarcely necessary to say that new arrivals will 
do well to be cautious in this respect, until they know what best agrees 
with them among those fruits with which they have no previous acquaint- 
ance. 

Those who have been accustomed in the temperate zone to much animal 
food, or, in other words, to a highly nitrogenous diet, have also generally 
been accustomed to a large amount of bodily exercise, and by this means 
have been able to maintain a healthy metabolic equilibrium. Unfortu- 
nately, however, the same amount of exercise will not ordinarily be secured 
with comfort or safety in very hot climates, especially by new-comers ; and 
thus the need for food of this character is greatly diminished. Meats 
should thus be taken in moderation, and regulated in quantity accoiding to 
the repast. The use of flesh at all three meals is undesirable ; and it should 
not be eaten, except as soup or flavoring, more than twice in the twenty- 
four hours. When used, it should be carefully prepared and well cooked, 
and should present its nutritive principles to the economy in a form readily 
assimilable and adapted to repair the losses of the organism, without leav- 
ing any excess of undigested refuse to irritate an overloaded and atonic ali- 
mentary tract. Soups, stews and rare roasts are hence to be preferred, and 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 869 

boiled or fried meats should be avoided. In hot countries, native meat, as 
a rule, is not tender in consequence of the necessity of cooking it within a 
short time after slaughtering; and for this reason imported refrigerated 
meats are superior to the native article. In the tropics, beef is the standard 
animal food, but mutton is excellent if it can be procured. Pork is unde- 
sirable from its greasy, heavy and indigestible character. Native swine are 
largely feeders on filth and offal and their use as food should always be 
avoided. Chickens and eggs are excellent, but can scarcely be considered 
as normal constituents of the diet of the soldier. Fish, either fresh or 
salted, is of great value as not being a concentrated food and should be much 
used. Canned meats should never be employed where the fresh article is 
available ; and, when used, must be eaten within twelve hours after the 
can is opened. 

English authorities are united in their condemnation of all highly 
spiced and peppery dishes in the tropics, on the ground that they are 
largely responsible for the derangement of hepatic function so often seen, 
and that they produce congestion and irritation of the digestive organs. 
These conclusions would seem to be illogical. Chili, curry, soy and other 
carminatives, in considerable quantity, are apparently a necessity in secur- 
ing the proper digestion of the bulky foods used by the natives of hot coun- 
tries, and it is particularly noticeable that liver disease and disorders of 
digestion are infrequent in this native class. Hence the ill effects usually 
considered by foreigners as due to the high seasoning of the native cookery 
will probably be more justly attributed to their own almost universal use 
of a too rich, greasy and nitrogenous diet, unsuited to the climate. 

The Tropical Dietary. While the army ration, in constituents and 
quantity, is established by regulations, the actual diet of the soldier, within 
certain limits, is what the company commander and his first sergeant and 
cook may choose to make it. It has already been stated that the tropical 
dietary is a ^natter of proximate nutrient principles and fuel value and not 
one of the use or avoidance of any special articles of food, and hence the 
present established ration contains within itself all the elements of a suit- 
able dietary for the tropics. There is, however, a be^st nutrient standard to 
which the food of the soldier serving in hot climates, particularly when \ er- 
forming the ordinary routine of garrison duty, should approximate in its 
chemical constituents and potentiality with regard to the production of 
heat and performance of work. What this approximate dietary standard 
should be, it is the purpose of this section to indicate. 

Various attempts have been made by physiologists and chemists to 
devise standards representing the amount of nutrients required, under vary- 
ing conditions, for daily sustenance. There are, however, two great diffi- 
culties in the way of setting up such standards. The first is that there is 
not sufficient definite knowledge on the subject of nutrition to permit of 
an exact statement as to how much the average man, doing a certain class 
of work, requires for the maintenance of his body in vigorous condition and 
for the creation of energy expended in the form of heat and work. The 
second difficulty depends upon the fact that different individuals of the 
same class, under the same conditions, differ widely in their demands 
for food and the use they make of it. One will eat more and the other 
less, while both do the same amount of work ; or both will eat the same 



870 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

food and do the same amount of work, yet one will be fat and the other 
lean; or both have the same diet, yet one will be strong and capable 
of performing considerable work while the other will be weak and able to 
accomplish little. Exactly why individuals differ in their ways of utilising 
their food, and how to measure these differences and make rules to fit them 
exactly, are problems which are as yet far from solution. The nutrition 
of man 'is by no means merely a question of grams of protein and units of 
energy, and hence the subject of dietetics can never be reduced to an exact 
science. The best that can be done is to make general estimaCes, with the 
understanding that such- estimates are only approximately correct, even for 
a special class. These are reached by observing the amount and relative 
proportions of the food actually consumed by the individuals composing 
the class in question, and also by experiments in which the income and 
outgo of the body are directly compared. But little investigation has as 
yet been done by the latter method, and present knowledge of nutrition 
may be considered as based entirely upon observation and analysis of es- 
tablished dietaries, which have been shown by experience to possess suffi- 
cient reparative and potential value for the special conditions under which 
they are used. For present purposes, these dietaries should cover not only 
varying conditions of external muscular work but also of climate, so that 
comparison in the latter respect may be possible. 

For determining the diet of the soldier, it is necessary to refer to the 
dietaries of men at hard labor in various portions of the temperate zone 
and in the tropics ; the following table being intentionally made to include 
dietaries of this character for different countries in the northern portion of 
the temperate zone, since the United States army is heterogeneous in its 
composition, and the foreign-born element largely drawn from the coun- 
tries named undoubtedly brings with it into the military service the 
dietetic preferences resulting from previous habit : 

TYPICAL HARD-LABOR DIETARIES FOR THE NORTHERN PORTION OP THE TEM- 
PERATE ZONE. 





Protein, 
grams. 

i 


} 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


it 
Ij 

13 


g 



.= 5 
S5 


Nutritive 
ratio 
(protein to 
energy). 


England Royal engineers, active work. 
(Playfair.) 


144 


83 


631 


3 950 


23 04 


1-57 


Sweden Mechanics. (Hultgren and Lander- 
gren. ) 


189 


110 


714 


4 725 


30 24 


1-51 


Russia Factory operatives, near Moscow. 
(Erismann) 


132 


80 


584 


3 680 


21 11 


1-58 


Germany Machinists, Krupp gun works. 
(Prausnitz.) 


189 


113 


677 


4 395 


22 24 


1-6 7 


Southern Austria Farm laborers, at harvest- 
ing. (Ohlmuller.) 


159 


62 


977 


5 235 


2544 


1:7 


United States Mechanics, Massachusetts and 
Connecticut. (Atwater.) 


154 


227 


626 


5 275 


24 64 


1-7 5 


United States navy ration. (Atwater.) 
United States army ration 


143 
164 2 


184 
97 8 


520 
600 


5,000 
4 061 


22.88 
25 33 


1:6.8 
1-5 


. 














Average 


152 


119.5 


666 


4,540 


24.36 


1:6.2 



Total carbon 463.89 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon 1 : 19.4. 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 



871 



As compared with the United States army ration, included in the above 
table, the average of these dietaries is seen to be slightly in excess in fats, 
carbohydrates and fuel value, but deficient in protein. On the whole, 
however, the difference is not great, and the sufficiency in amount and 
proper proportion of the food provided for the soldier serving in a more 
northern portion of this country is abundantly demonstrated. 

In the warmer portions of the temperate zone, but still well outside the 
tropics, the quantities of the several proximate principles required by the 
inhabitants are markedly inferior to the figures above given. The dietaries 
of these regions have not been as thoroughly studied as in countries lying 
in a cooler climate, but the following data are sufficiently comprehensive 
to be of both interest and practical importance : 

TYPICAL WORKING DIETS OF THE SOUTHERN PORTION OF THE TEMPERATE ZONE. 





Protein, 
grams. 


Fats, grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel value, 
Calories. 


/. 


Nutritive 
ratio 
(protein to 
energy). 


Italy Mechanics. (Manfredi.) 


76 


38 


396 


2,290 


10.55 


1: 63 


Italy Army ration, peace. (Moleschott) . . . 
Japan Prisoners at work, Tokyo. (Eijk- 
man) 


114 
66 


14 
9 


592 
544 


3,095 

2585 


18.24 
1066 


1: 5.5 
1-85 


United States Mexican, New Mexico, families. 
(Goss.) 


68 


73 


572 


3,320 


10.88 


1-83 


United States Negro Southern Gulf States, 
families. (Atwater and Woods) 


62 


132 


436 


3,270 


990 


1-11 8 
















Average 


77 


53 4 


508 


3012 


10 72 


1- 8 

















These figures, however, are based upon races, with the exception of the 
United States negro, of less body-weight than those of colder climates, and 
hence are not properly comparable with similar figures for the latter class 
until reduced to a common standard in this respect; since, according to 
Church, the capacity for muscular work may be considered as closely re- 
lated to body-weight. If it be assumed that laborers in the southern por- 
tion of the temperate zone have an average weight of 125 pounds, while 
the corresponding class in the cooler part of the same zone have an average 
weight of 145 pounds about that given by statistics as the mean weight 
of recruits for the United States army the above average figures should 
be corrected as follows: 



Protein, grams. 


Fats, grams. 


Carbohydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel value. 
Calorie*. 


Nitrogen, 
grams. 


Nutritive ratio 
(protein to energy). 


89.8 


61.94 


589.28 


3,493 


14.3 


1:8 



Total carbon, 354.73 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1 : 24.8 

While the foods habitually used by natives of the tropics are well 
known to differ widely in character. from those employed in temperate cli- 
mates, and while the existence of a certain deficiency in the native dietary 
in the matter of protein and fats has long been recognized, there has been 
but little investigation as to the force-value of the tropical dietary or to 
the exact qualities and relative proportions of the several proximate prin- 



872 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ciples entering into its composition. The question of tropical dietaries has, 
however, been locally studied by Maurel, in the island of Guadeloupe, by 
Church, in British India, by Eijkman, in Java, and by Lapicque, in Abys- 
sinia. The results obtained by these investigators in diverse portions of 
the tropical zone, although but few in number, nevertheless agree so closely 
in all respects that they may be accepted as conclusive and their average 
as fairly representing the nutrient standard of the laboring class of natives 
throughout the tropics. The average chemical composition of the four 
dietaries investigated by these observers is as follows : 



Protein, grams. 


Fate, grams. 


Carbohydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel value, 
Calories. 


Nitrogen, 
grams. 


Nutritive ratio 
(protein to energy.) 


60.21 


31.8 


442.2 


2,300 


9.63 


1:8.8 



For purposes of comparison, however, these figures, like those for the in- 
habitants of the warmer portions of the temperate zone, must be reduced to 
the common standard of body-weight of 145 pounds the average weight of 
laborers in the undersized races of the tropics being assumed to be about 
115 pounds and the above figures are thus proportionately increased, as 
shown in the following table : 



Protein, grams. 


Fats, grams. 


Carbohydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel value, 
Calories. 


Nitrogen, 
grams. 


Nutritive ratio 
(protein to energy). 


76.18 


40 


560.01 


2,900 


12.18 


1:8.8 



Total carbon, 318.13 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1:26.1. 

On contrasting the several dietaries which have been shown to obtain 
with men having an average weight of 145 pounds, engaged at hard mus- 
cular labor, in the northern portion of the temperate zone, the southern 
portion of the temperate zone and in the tropics, the difference in the 
quantity and character of food taken is seen to be most marked, particularly 
in relation to the protein and fats. The difference in force-value between 
these dietaries is also very great, and even the use of carbohydrates, con- 
trary to usual ideas, is also diminished in the tropics. These typical diet- 
aries are shown in the following table : 



Climate. 


Protein, 
grams. 


1 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel value. 
Calories. 


2 


If 5 


Carbon, 
grams. 


Relation of 
nitrogen to 
carbon. 


Northern portion of temper 
ate zone 


152 


11ft * 




A *iA(\ 


> i '-(ft 


1 . ft O 


i,'-' QQ 


1 1Q A. 


Southern portion of temper 
ate zone 


89 3 


r.i o 


KQQ 


3,4Qq 


1 A Q. 


1 . O 


QKA nn 


1. O/f Q 


Tropics 


76 18 


4.0 


Kn 


2 III III 


1 O 1fi 


l : o 




*1 . Oft 1 














: o.o 







t may, however, be urged that the marked variation in the composi- 

.on and force-value apparent in the above dietaries is due rather to racial 

reference than to climatic influence. This claim would scarcely appear 

) be well founded. It is a matter of common observation that natives of 

i tropics removed to colder climates soon adopt the dietetic customs 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 873 

of the region in which they may be resident. Further, it should be noted 
that Atwater and Woods showed the average daily consumption of food in 
twenty negro families in the rural districts of southern Alabama to consist 
of 62 gm. of protein, 132 gin. of fats and 436 gin. of carbohydrates, and to 
possess a force-value of 3,012 Calories; while Frissell and Bevier found 
that the average dietary of nineteen negro families of the same class, resi- 
dent in northern Virginia, yielded 109 gm. of protein, 159 gm. of fats and 
444 gm. of carbohydrates with a force- value of 3,745 Calories. It is idle 
to assume that this great difference in the composition and nutrient value 
of the dietaries for corresponding classes of the same race, resident in 
different latitudes, can be dependent upon other than climatic conditions. 
Hence it may be assumed that the food of human beings, both in relative 
proportion and nutrient quality, varies directly with temperature, as 
approximately expressed by latitude. 

The standard dietaries having been established for laboring men per- 
forming hard work under diverse climatic conditions, it becomes necessary 
to examine the present United States army ration with a view of ascertain- 
ing the nutritive value of its several components, and determining whether 
the quantities in which' their issue is authorized will permit their combina- 
tion in a daily allowance, not only desirable in theory and well qualified 
to maintain the health and vigor of the soldier but also thoroughly prac- 
ticable under all conditions of military service. 

On referring to the four combinations of the articles of the ration given 
on pages 162 and 163, it is seen that the first combination, as compared 
with the average dietary for individuals of the same weight native to the 
tropics, presents a great excess in protein, fats and fuel value even the 
carbohydrates being largely increased. In the second arrangement, the fats 
are present in five times the quantity apparently sufficient and desirable 
under tropical standards, the protein is in considerable excess and the fuel- 
value unnecessarily high, while the deficiency in carbohydrates is notice- 
able. In the third dietary, the fats and protein are both in excess, but the 
quantity of carbohydrates is markedly deficient. The force-value of this 
combination is probably not far from the actual requirements of the system, 
in the tropics, as regards energy. In the last arrangement of the articles 
of the ration, the protein is seen to be present in slight excess, while the 
fats and carbohydrates are markedly deficient, the former especially so. 
The force-value of this dietary, also, is insufficient to meet the needs of 
even moderate muscular labor. The conclusion is therefore justifiable that 
while the several articles composing the ration are well selected, the maxi- 
mum quantities in which their issue is now authorized are so proportioned 
that their combination in a dietary, approximately similar to the nutrient 
standard of native laborers in the tropics even under conditions of equality 
as regards weight is practically impossible. It is therefore desirable that 
the company commander should use only such quantities of these ration 
components as would permit of proper dietary requirements for tropical ser- 
vice, as based upon the amounts of protein, fats and carbohydrates desira- 
ble for the daily dietary. 

With respect to the quantity of proteid required, the proteid molecule, 
as shown by Krukenberg, Pavy, Schiitzenberger and others, is not to be re- 
garded as a perfect chemical body, but as a complex, composite mixture 



874 

of a glucosidal nature, containing nitrogenous, carbohydratic and fatty 
radicles. Protein has been experimentally decomposed into these radicles, 
outside the body, by the above investigators; and it has been determined 
by Cohnheim, Seegen, Kiilz, Mering and others, through artificial condi- 
tions of diet, that the same cleavage occurs as a result of the processes of 
oxidation within the organism. The non-nitrogenous radicles have as their 
object the production of energy ; and when the systemic needs are satisfied 
as regards nitrogen, it is obvious that, for the tropics, such force-food as 
may still be required is preferably supplied in the simple proximate forms 
not ret quiring such cleavage with its necessary production of heat and 
not yielding, in the process of decomposition, considerable quantities of a 
substance which is in excess of the immediate requirements of the organ- 
^m, and, as stated by Foster, can be stored up in but extremely small part 
in the system, and hence merely requires elimination as an excrementitious < 
body. Particularly is this the case where the need for internal heat is ob- 
viously lessened, and where the renal function, from the causes already 
mentioned, operates at a disadvantage. It is hence extremely important 
that protein be supplied in the tropics purely for the purpose of systemic 
repair and not be relied upon for the creation of any considerable proportion 
of the energy required by the organism. The ingestion of a certain amount 
of nitrogen is indisputably necessary to health, and with its deficiency the 
food ceases to be digested and a condition of inanition ensues. This, how- 
ever, is no argument for its supply in excessive amount ; and the nitro- 
genous intake for the most satisfactory accomplishment of the metabolic 
processes should be directly proportioned to body-waste. According to 
Gayet, the average man at ordinary labor, in the temperate zone, loses 20 
gm. of nitrogen daily, nearly all of which is in the urine. Eijkman, in 
Java, found that the average excretion of nitrogen in Malays of a similar 
class was 7.817 gm. ; which, being reduced to a common standard of 
weight at 145 pounds the Malays averaging 111 pounds gives 10.21 gm., 
or about one-half the quantity ordinarily eliminated in temperate regions. 
The nitrogen in the standard diets for laboring men in cool climates, pro- 
posed by Playfair, Moleschott, Atwater and others, varies from 18.35 to 
20.29 gm. Notter and Firth give 11.6 gm. as the daily allowance for a 
mere subsistence diet in temperate regions, and state that even as much as 
32 gm. may be required during great exertion. On referring to the table 
already given showing the dietaries employed by laboring classes in the 
tropics, reduced to a common standard of weight for purposes of comparison, 
it is seen that the hard-working native of the low latitudes ingests an aver- 
age of 12.83 gm. of nitrogen, or an amount only slightly in excess of the 
theoretical requirements for bare subsistence for men of the same weight in 
temperate climates. This deficiency in the amount of nitrogen ingested by 
the native is, however, apparent rather than real ; for the above quantity, 
small though it may seem, has been shown by experience through untold 
generations to be not only sufficient for the maintenance of life and health in 
the tropics, but also ample for the greater demands upon the organism re- 
sulting from labor. Maurel, in his study of the natives of Guadeloupe and 
Guiana, found that their diet was almost wholly vegetable. From estimates 
based on official figures, he showed that the inhabitants of Guadeloupe used a 
daily average of only 20 gm. of meat per capita, and that only one-seventh 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 



875 



of the vegetable food was imported in the form of the cereals of the tem- 
perate zone; the remaining six-sevenths being made up of yams, cassava, 
sweet potatoes, bananas, mangoes and other fruits. Similar customs as 
regards food are said by Eijkman to prevail among the Javanese Malays ; 
and in India and Abyssinia, Church and Lapicque found that the natives 
rarely used animal material in any form. For natives of the tropics, it 
may therefore be accepted that the vegetable kingdom is almost wholly the 
source from which their food is drawn, and that but little of the vegetable 
material so used is imported in the form of cereals grown in cool climates. 
These facts are extremely important, for fruits and vegetables grown in the 
tropics, at least as far as the western hemisphere is concerned, are much 
less rich in nitrogenous constituents than are the vegetable foods indigenous 
to the temperate zone. A comparison of the vegetable materials most com- 
monly employed as staple foods in the tropics and in cool climates shows 
the following differences : 

VEGETABLE FOODS CHIEFLY USED IN THE TROPICS. 






Water, 
per cent. 

1 


So 
f 8 

&i 


Nitrogen, 
per cent. 


** 

i* 


*l 

g~u 

1*8 

*! 


Crude flher, 
per cent. 


^ 

4l 
< 


Cassava 


61 30 


064 


0.102 


.17 


36 50 


088 


051 


Sweet potato (edible portion) 


69 


1 8 


_>ss 


.70 


26 10 


1 30 


1 10 


Yam 


71.86 


1 


.160 


.20 


25.05 


1.03 


.86 




75 41 


1 49 


230 




15 36 


7 04 


69 


Ripe bananas (edible portion) 


75.3 


1.3 


.208 


.6 


21 


1 


.8 


Rice 


12.3 


8 


1.280 


.3 


78.8 


.2 


.4 



















Average amount of nitrogen, percent., .378. 
VEGETABLE FOODS CHIEFLY USED IN TEMPERATE CLIMATES. 





Water, 
percent. 


Protein, 
percent. 


Nitrogen, 
per cent. 


** 

a 


i 


Crude flber, 
percent. 


^ 

Q Q 

< 


White potato (edible portion) 


78.8 


2.2 


0.852 


0.1 


18.0 


0.4 


1.0 


Wheat flour 


12.8 


10.8 


1.552 


1.1 


74.6 


.2 


.5 




7.8 


16.1 


2.575 


7.2 


66.6 


.9 


1.9 


Cornmeal, granular 


12.5 


9.2 


1.472 


1.9 


74.4 


1 


1 




11.9 


10.5 


1.520 


2.2 


66.8 


6.5 


2.6 


Rye. . 


12.7 


7.1 


1.185 


.9 


78.5 




.8 



















Average amount of nitrogen, per cent., 1.484. 

In these two groups of food-stuffs, the great inferiority of the vegetable 
diet of the native in the tropics, as regards available nitrogen, is at once 
apparent ; the vegetable and cereals most commonly used as food in the 
temperate zone containing, in a given weight, almost exactly four times 
more nitrogenous material. Hence, it is evident that the native diet in 
the tropics is doubly inferior as regards nitrogen ; meat being but little used, 
while the vegetable foods which replace the cereals of temperate climates 
contain but a small proportion of this element. 

The fact may here be emphasized that nature has kid down certain 
laws as regards alimentation which it is the highest wisdom not to disre- 



876 

gard. It is not a matter of theory but an unrecognized chemical instinct 
which leads the native of the tropics to make his choice of diet and nature's 
provision of aliment accord so closely. The inhabitants of warm climates, 
civili/ed and savage, succeeded in properly adjusting their diet through 
ex]>erience alone long before any theories as to the proper diet for such 
climates were advanced ; and it is worthy of note that not only is a light 
vegetable diet, containing proportionately little nitrogen, sufficient to main- 
tain health and strength in the native of the tropics, but whites even, who 
may have been born in hot countries, intuitively adopt a similar regimen 
and thrive upon it. Habit, in the use of certain classes of food-stuffs, 
certainly operates against a change of diet ; yet Eijkman found, in Java, 
that the food of resident whites born in Europe ultimately approached 
the native dietary, presenting a marked decrease in both protein and fats. 
Analyses of this modified European diet gave an average content of 99.6 
gin. of protein, 83.8 gm. of fats and 284.2 gml of carbohydrates. The 
fact that an excess of meat in any form, greasy meat especially, soon be- 
comes distasteful under the ordinary conditions of life in the tropics is 
certainly a powerful argument for an alteration in diet in favor of a dimi- 
nution of protein as well as fats. 

The most striking effect of a highly nitrogenous diet is the increase in 
the nitrogenous metabolism of the body, and to a lesser degree of the non- 
nitrogenous also. This increased metabolism, through the amount of heat 
necessarily generated in the process, is clearly undesirable in warm cli- 
mates. Further, the deficient supply of oxygen available in the tropics 
impairs the combustion of proteids, and under such conditions the over- 
loaded system habitually contains an undue amount of unoxidized nitrog- 
enous matter, which in an oxidized state would be eliminated by the kidneys. 
Albuminates, and nitrogenous compounds generally, undergo change and 
are excreted principally as urea ; therefore an excess of albuminous food 
throws more work on the kidneys, which may induce disease. Nitrogenous 
matter being in excess and the secretion of the urine by the kidneys being 
decreased, there may be deposits in the urinary passages in the shape of 
uric acid, or in other parts as urates, through the lack of sufficient fluid for 
their solution. 

As to the liver, Rochard, Moore, Nielly, Rattray, Jousset, Maurel, 
Treille and others have observed the directly injurious influence of a too 
nitrogenous and greasy diet in the production of disorders of this organ. 
Hepatic disease, while extremely common among the whites of India and 
other tropical regions, is rare among the native population. The idea has 
been advanced that the native enjoys an immunity to this affection as a 
result of acclimation rather than diet; but this theory is contradicted by 
Maurel, who states that he, with others, has repeatedly seen congestion of 
the liver occurring in natives of the tropics, who a few months before, by 
reason of circumstances, had adopted the much more nitrogenous diet of 
the temperate zone. This view is upheld editorially in a recent issue of 
the Journal of Tropical Medicine, which calls attention to the greatly in- 
creased liability to disease of the liver among Asiatics who have become 
semi-Europeanized, and connects it with the fact that these individuals 
crave and use the same bulk of the more concentrated and nitrogenous diet 
of the European as they do of their own native foods. Further, to show 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 



877 



the injurious effect of a nitrogenous diet in hot countries, laboratory experi- 
ments are not wanting. Maurel, in Guiana, fed a series of rabbits upon a 
vegetable diet, while another group was fed entirely on cheese. The investi- 
gation extended over a period of ten months and the results were conclusive, 
showing a less increase in the weight of the first group than occurred in 
the cheese-fed rabbits. Not only was the total weight of the second series 
of animals much greater than that of the first, but the disparity in hepatic 
enlargement was even more marked, the livers of the latter class showing 
disproportionate increase in size and also exhibiting manifest changes 
being hard, mottled and presenting a condition of hypertrophic cirrhosis. 
In a second series of experiments, the results, though positive, were slightly 
less marked, since the experimental feeding continued for only six instead 
of ten months, and the influence of a nitrogenous diet was not so pronounced 
upon the liver. The following results were obtained by him : 

DURATION OF EXPERIMENT, TEN MONTHS, JUNE, 1881, TO APRIL, 1882. 






TOTAL WEIGHT. 


AT END OF EXPERIMENT. 


Before 
experiment, 
grams. 


After 
experiment, 
grams. 


Weight 
of liver, 
grams. 


Relation of weight 
of liver to total 
weight. 


Rabbit No. 
Rabbit No. 


I. (vegetable diet) 


650 

580 


1,210 
1,780 


37 

86 


1:82.70 
1:20.69 


II. (cheese diet) 





SECOND EXPERIMENT, DURATION Six MONTHS, APRIL, 1882, TO OCTOBER, 1882. 







TOTAL 1 


V EIGHT. 


AT END 


OF EXPERIMENT. 






Before 
experiment, 
grams. 


After 
experiment, 
grams. 


Weight 
of liver, 
grams. 


Relation of weight 
of liver to total 
weight. 


Rabbit No. I. 


(vegetable diet) 


629 


1 160 


33 


1-35 15 


Rabbit No. II. 


(vegetable diet) 


645 


1 ssn 


44 


. 1 42 72 


Rabbit No. III. 




467 


1,365 


48 


1-28 44 


Rabbit No. IV. 


(cheese diet) 


565 


1,370 


45 


1-80 44 















For the three rabbits given a vegetable diet, the ratio of the weight of the 
liver to the total body-weight was 1:36.85 at the time of death, while 
the ratio for the cheese-fed rabbits in this respect was 1 : 26.52. In view 
of the clinical experience and experimental results, as noted above, no 
further argument as to the influence of a too nitrogenous diet in the tropics 
in provoking liver disease is required. 

From what has been said, it may be accepted that the full nitrogenous 
content of the established ration is in excess of the needs of troops per- 
forming garrison duty in the tropics, and under such circumstances the 
use of food-stuffs containing a considerable proportion of nitrogen may be 
safely anl advantageously diminished. This is perhaps best accomplished 
at the expense of the meat component, which, besides protein, also contains 
a considerable proportion of fats. A complete fall to the nitrogenous level 
of the native of the tropics is undesirable, however, and it is probable that 
the daily allowance of nitrogen cannot be safely reduced below 16 gm. 
represented by 100 gm. of protein even though this amount is in con- 



878 

siderable proportionate excess of the nitrogenous intake of the correspond- 
ing native class of the tropics. 

In hot climates, where the human organism instinctively feels the need 
of a loss of heat rather than its creation, the consumption of fat a heating 
food of the highest degree should be reduced to the minimum, and largely 
replaced by that of sugars and starches, except in the case of troops perform- 
ing hard service, where force-food of high potential value is required. The 
craving for sweets noted among our troops stationed in the Philippines 
gives practical evidence on this point. Kubner calculated that 100 parts of 
fat, burned within the body, yield as much heat as 232 parts of starch or 
cane-sugar ; and the distaste for fats in any considerable quantity, so early 
acquired in the tropics and so noticeable during the summer weather of tem- 
ierate climates, may be regarded as evidence of an unconscious but in- 
stinctive recognition of the fact that a dietary of decreased caloric value is 
sufficient for the needs of the organism exposed to high temperatures and 
performing no severe muscular work ; the more concentrated heat-producers 
being rejected in favor of bulky vegetable foods of lower potential value. 
This dislike of fat under conditions of high temperature' and but moderate 
exercise is too fully appreciated to require the production of evidence on 
this point. It is of interest, however, to recall the aversion with which the 
ration of bacon was regarded by troops in Cuba and Porto Eico during the 
war with Spain ; while Card well reported from Manila that " the salt meat 
(bacon) was in great part wasted and need not have been issued except in 
sufficient quantity to provide cooking fat." During hard field service, how- 
ever, fats may be relished in the tropics, since they supply in concentrated 
form the energy required for the performance of exhausting labor. 

As compared with carbohydrates, fats, as a whole, are notably less di- 
gestible, and thus increase the evolution of heat through, the more active 
chemical processes in the intestines. Furthermore, they are burned with 
more difficulty within the organism, since there is sufficient oxygen in the 
carbohydrate itself to form water with the hydrogen present, while fats 
require additional oxygen to combine with their hydrogen for their com- 
bustion and elimination. Hence, in herbivora, according to Foster, a larger 
proportion of the oxygen consumed reappears in the form of carbonic acid 
than is the case with carnivora, subsisting chiefly on proteid and fat. That 
this difference is by no means small is shown by the fact that the so-called 
respiratory quotient, obtained by dividing the excretion of carbonic acid 
by the consumption of oxygen, by volumes, is about .9 in herbivora and 
about .7 in carnivora; a difference of 22 per cent. In the tropics, how- 
ever, it has already been shown that there is a greatly diminished value, 
as regards oxygenation, to the respiratory act; and under such circum- 
stances the amount of oxygen, already small, available for the needs of the 
organism as regards the elimination of carbon, would be seriously en- 
croached upon in the oxidation of a diet largely composed of fatty material. 
Furthermore, an excess of hydrocarbons in the food calls for increased he- 
patic action in the production of bile, since it has been abundantly demon- 
strated that the latter is a prominent factor in the digestion of fats, as shown 
by the fatty stools which follow obstruction or ligature of the bile-ducts. 

That this hyper-stimulation of the liver with its many evil results, 
elsewhere discussed actually does occur in the tropics where more fats 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 879 

are introduced into the system than can be readily utilised, is shown by 
the bilious diathesis so common among gross eaters in warm climates, as 
characterized by excessive bile production and later by hepatic congestion. 
Fats and carbohydrates are much more akin to each other than is either 
to proteid ; and if, as stated by Foster, fat may be converted into sugar 
either when about to be incorporated into the organism or when being 
decomposed into its ultimate products, it might reasonably be expected 
that carbohydrates and proteid, with little or no fat, would form a satisfac- 
tory diet. That this conclusion is, in practice, largely borne out by facts 
is shown by reference to the foregoing tables in connection with the com- 
position of vegetable food-stuffs, in which the. fatty constituent of the 
vegetables ordinarily composing the diet of the native of the West Indies 
is only .32 per cent, while the corresponding part of the diet in tem- 
perate climates contains 2.23 per cent., or an amount seven-fold greater. 
On this point, however, experience is probably to be trusted. Natives of 
hot countries, when they can afford it, generally use a small amount of fats 
as such as the clarified butter of India, the salt pork of tropical America, 
the olive oil of the Mediterranean districts and the palm oil of equatorial 
Africa but where such' a great deficiency exists in the natural fats of the 
vegetable portion of the diet, even the use of an apparently considerable 
amount of bacon or other greasy food would fail to make good the 
deficiency in fats as compared with the dietaries of temperate regions, 
depending upon the above cause. It is probable, also, that a certain 
quantity of fatty material, together with the proteid and carbohydrates, 
assures a better use of the alimentary principles and reduces to a minimum 
the quantity of each which should be ingested. While it may, then, be 
conceded that a certain quantity of fatty food is a desirable component of 
the diet in warm climates, it is certainly true that the amount so taken 
should be relatively small, and that the proportion commonly maintained 
in temperate climates is far in excess of the needs of the organism in the 
tropics. This fact is abundantly demonstrated by referring to the average 
dietary for men at hard work in the north temperate region and that for 
the corresponding class in the tropics, as previously given ; the fats and 
carbohydrates being seen to exist in the ratio of 1 : 5.5 in the cold climates, 
while in the tropical dietary the relative proportion is 1 : 14 for men of the 
same weight. With such wide variation in the relation of these proximate 
principles, and in view of the fact that a considerable diminution in protein 
has also been shown to be desirable, it is evident that a sudden reduction 
of fat in the ration to the low standard of the native dietary in the tropics 
might readily provoke such alteration of metabolic function and such in- 
terference with existing processes of digestion as would result in serious dis- 
comfort and positive detriment to the individual. The dietetic customs of 
a lifetime cannot be entirely changed in a day, and a stomach accustomed 
to rich and concentrated food would undoubtedly find difficulty in at once 
properly digesting a far more bulky and less nutritious diet composed 
chiefly of vegetable material. For the new-comer in the tropics, habit as 
well as climate must be given consideration in the selection of diet ; and 
it is therefore probable that no smaller proportion than that of one part of 
fats to ten of carbohydrates would be to the best interests of the United 
States soldier under the routine duties of garrison life. 



880 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



Carl Mihyd rates are justly regarded an the chief soun-n of rarb<.n 
to the organism in the production of energy. Thi.s, however, is dm- 
tu the much greater quantity of carbohydrates ingested, as comj>ared with 
the fat and protein constituents of the ordinary diet, than toa high propm 
tion of this element in the carbohydrate itself, for the amount of carbon m 
starch and sugar is relatively low. Nottor and Firth state that carbohy- 
drate contains only 44 jr cent, of carbon, where fat contains 7(5.5 jier cent. 
and even protein contains 153 ]>er cent. Through the considerable quantity 
of protein which enters into the diet, it is thus evident that the latter plays 
no small jttirt in determining the carbon intake, as utili/ed for the creation of 
energy. The urea of the urine practically represents the whole of the nitro- 
gen which jwsses from the body, and in any given quantity of urea the 
amount of carbon is far less than that found in the quantity of protein 
containing the same amount of nitrogen. Foster states that the j>ercentago 
com]Hjsition of the two is as follows : 





Virtual. 


llvli. ,).'./,. 


Oiyffttn. 


Nltnwn. 


Hulphur. 




2fl 


0. flfl 


2fl.7 


mi;;' 




Protein 


M 


7.2) 


an. 04 


inns 


1.18 















It is thus readily seen that 100 gm. of protein, which liave l*icn sug- 
gested as furnishing about the amount of nitrogen desirable for the ordi- 
nary allowance of the United Suites soldier in the tropics, contains an much 
nitrogen as 33.3 gm. of urea; but the lOOgm. of protein contain 40.4 gm. 
more carbon than do the 100 gm. of urea (53 : fi.fifi, or alxmt the probation 
of 8:1). Hence the daily allowance of protein for tropical service, in j>ass- 
ing through the body and giving rise to urea, would leave Ijehind 4o.4 gm, 
of carbon to combine with oxygen and undergo elimination as carbon di- 
oxide. It has l*jen shown that the average diet of laboring men at luml 
muscular work in the cooler portion of the temperate zone contains 152 
gm. of protein, and reduction in this resjject to 100 gm., the proposed 
standard for the tropics, implies a loss of 15.08 gm. of carbon previously 
available for purposes of energy. It is true that a certain amount of pro- 
tein taken in as food, as shown by Mallet, is not directly decomposed to 
the comparatively simple forms of urea and carbon dioxide, but, retain in;/ 
a greater proportion of carbon, is excreted as creatinin or uric acid Uxlies 
which, intermediate lietween protein and urea, form a series in whi'-b the 
projiortion of nitrogen Incomes larger and the carbon smaller and it is 
probable that the amount of these sulistanees in considerably increa*e<l in 
the tropics through deficiency of oxygen available for i.he /n-iaUli< j 
esBCH of the organism. In quantity, however, they are undoubtedly at all 
times HO small as to be safely disregarded for the purjx^es of the present 
calculation. 

As regards fats, as stated above, carbon enters into their compoMition to 
the amount of 76.5 per cent., and it lias been shown thai for U 
the proportion in the dietary of one part of fats to te/. -hydrate* 

probably redounds to the best interests of the American sol<: ' m re- 

ferring to the table giving the proximate <:omj*;hiii<,n of the average diet* 
of hard-working men in the cooler portion of tb- <ne, it i* seen 

that the amount of fata ingested by this class, 1 10.5 gm, would be re- 



'i UK im;iKNK OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATF.S. 



881 



duccd, Mecording to the al)ovo projxirtion, to 00. G gm., or, in round num- 
Ixjrs, to u daily lUoVMMM of about 05 ^m. in hot climates. Tin amounts 
i > i reduction of 54.5 gin. of fatH and 41.09 gm. of carbon; making the 
total IOHH in iirboii, due to diminution in the fat ami protein constituents, 
amount, to 56.77 #111. daily. The average working diet for cwl climates, 
I'M i i'ii -n i'i| to, conlaiim -\ :>'.',.'.'>'.) gm. of carbon available for the mainte- 
nance of body -heat and the jierformanco of external muscular work ; this 
quantity, OH lubtnoting the 5(5.77 gm. of this element withdrawn from the 
name diet through proposed reduction in fat and protein, being reduced to 
.''.!/. (i'J gm. Hut it lias been Hhown that the native of tlie tropics ]>erformM 
ban I labor on a diet which, even when proportioned for an average weight 
of 145 |MIIII(|H ( yield** only 319.10 gm. of carbon presumably available for 
purposes of energy. It is undoubtedly true that this relatively small 
amount of carbon, required by the natives of the tropics, expresses to a con- 
siderable degree the lessened amount of energy necessary in the maintenance 
of body-heat in hot climates, and hence approximation to the earlwmaceous 
level of the native dietary would seem to 1x3 desirable. < )n this point, how- 
ever, the question of previous habit must lie given consideration, as is also 
the cane with resjieet t<f the fatty constituents of the diet, and such great 
reduction in the carhohydratic element in the food would, in reducing tho 
nutritive value of the diet, unduly decrease its bulk. Further, the work 
required of the soldier, even under conditions of garrison life, may at times 
bo somewhat greater than that ]icrformed by tho native laborer in the 
tropics. It has liecn staled that a greater part of the carbon oxidi/ed within 
the organism is derived from carbohydrates, the latter Ixn'ng regarded purely 
as a force-food and as tho chief source of energy within the body. Such 
material is capable of largely replacing fat in the dietary, diminishes 
nitrogenous metabolism, yields no end-products to be excreted by the 
kidneys, is readily assimilated and, when in excess, is largely stored up 
within the organism as glycogon and adijHise tissue. The ingest ion of car- 
bohydrates, therefore, in quantities greater than are required for tho imme- 
diate needs of the economy, while not without certain untoward effects upon 
tho system, is undoubtedly far loss inimical to health in the tropics than 
where there is an excess of protein or fat in the dietary. It is probable, 
therefore, that further reduction in carbon for tho proposed tropical stand- 
ard of diet need not lie groat, as far as any seriously unfavorable effect upon 
tho organism is concerned, and it has been advanced by the writer, in his 
I'M < K as to the Military Service Institution, on tho ideal ration for an 
aiiii\ in i In- tropics, that about UNO gm. of carbon available for pursues of 
energy should he supplied daily, nut including the carbon required in the 
i in nl urea this In-ing \ieldcd by ihe proximate principles of the 
Mlbjaceiit dielai \ 

I lorn \\hat has been adxamed. it is Heon that the pr<>jM>ri innate cnm- 
in and fuel value !' the proposed lenlal i\e dn-tar\ standard I'm Tinted 
Status tn>0|>H, |ierl'>rminK mutine dut\ in the tropics, is as follows: 



in. 


mm 


fi.inr. 


war 


MtnM, 


rum) . 
irniiiw. 


Ni.milv.. rtUo 
i i.'iHn 
unTgy). 


KM. 


00 


000 


:: M 


10 


::.... 


1:8 




lli 



882 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

That this nutritive standard is sufficient for such conditions, in each and 
all respects, is shown by the fact that it closely resembles the dietary found 
bv Atwater to be employed by farmers in the northern part of New York 
State Certainly an allowance of food adequate for the performance of hard 
labor in a more rigorous climate should abundantly suffice under the condi- 
tions of temperature and external muscular work for which the above stand- 
ard is proposed. 

The proximate alimentary principles, whose quantities and relative pro- 
portions are given in the above nutrient standard for the tropics, can be 
properly apportioned in the dietary for hot climates only as a result of an 

accurate knowledge of the 
percentage composition of 
such articles of food as may 
be selected to enter into its 
composition. The deter- 
mination of these food- 
stuffs, for the soldier, is an 
easy task. The present 
United States army ration 
is made up of admirably se- 
lected articles in more than 
sufficient variety for this 
purpose ; and it is therefore 
not only wholly unneces- 
sary but quite inadvisable 
to consider, in this connec- 
tion, any nutritive substan- 
ces outside those articles 
legally established as com- 
ponents of the food for the 
soldier. The proximate 
composition of these has 
long since been determined 
as given on pages 161 
and 162 and hence the 
matter resolves itself into 
the simple problem of so 
proportioning the quantities 
of the nutrient articles al- 
ready provided that, when brought together in varying combination, the 
resulting dietary will in each case approach the theoretical standards to a 
reasonable degree. It is not, however, intended that the daily intake of the 
several proximate principles shall exactly correspond with the quantities 
kid down therein, for this is manifestly impracticable for the military ser- 
vice, and even if its accomplishment were secured it is more than doubt- 
ful if there would be any resulting advantage. The economy readily 
adapts itself, in the matter of food, to present necessity, and slight defi- 
ciency in any nutritive principle is readily made good, particularly in the 
matter of fats and carbohydrates, from the reserve of these materials 
stored up within the organism small systemic losses being subsequently 




Fio. 371. 1. Standard dietary as Riven by typical dietaries of 
men at hard labor in the northern portion of the temperate 
zone. 2. Proposed dietary for garrison duty in the tropics. 
3. Standard dietary for native laborers in the tropics ; bused 
on the weight of 145 pounds for purposes of comparison. 4. 
Standard dietary of the laboring class of natives in the tropics 
(Java, British India, Guadeloupe, Abyssinia), as determined 
from the food actually consumed by them at normal body 
weights. 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 



883 



compensated for by corresponding excess. It is true, also, that the needs 
of the economy, as shown by appetite, are subject to wide variation ; and 
hence it may be accepted that slight but carefully considered alterations 
in the constituents of the daily dietary, far from being detrimental, are 
productive of actual benefit. It is obvious, also, that the amount of 
work to be performed will not be the same under all circumstances, and 
hence the question should be considered of utilizing the components of the 
ration in such quantities as to furnish dietaries properly varying in poten- 
tial and nitrogenous value. It is believed that this is accomplished in the 
following modifications of the dietaries already shown to be most commonly 
used by the United States soldier in temperate climates ; the subjoined table 
showing the nutrient value of a proposed dietary for the tropics, containing 
the greatest amount of food material to be used by the soldier except when 
on field service : 

DIETARY I. 



Articles. 


Quantity, 
ounces. 


Protein, 
grams. 


Fats, 

l-'r:ilM. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel 
value. 
Calories. 


N'ltrogen, 
grams. 


Fresh beef ' 


10.0 


41.68 


44.75 




590 


6 67 


Flour 


18 


55 08 


560 


38046 


1 850 


7 90 


Beans ". 


2.4 


15.16 


1.22 


40.18 


240 


242 


Potatoes 


16 


9.50 


.45 


81 70 


:;MI 


1 52 


Dried fruit 


3 


1.77 


1.53 


33.80 


220 


.27 


Sugar 


8.5 






94.25 


397 


















Total . 


52.9 


128.19 


53 55 


630 39 


3 677 


18 78 

















Total carbon, 395.14 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1 : 19.6. 

The following table shows a proposed dietary in which the fatty con- 
stituents attain their maximum and the potential energy is high : 

DIETARY II. 



Articles. 


Quantity, 
ounces. 


Protein, 
grams. 


Fats, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel 
value. 
Calories. 


N'ltrogen, 
grams. 


Bacon 


6.0 


15.64 


105.06 




1.042 


2.49 


I lard bread 


18 


78.12 


6.63 


371.81 


1.926 


11 74 


Beans 


2.4 


15.16 


1 22 


40.18 


240 


242 


Dried fruit 


2 


1.77 


1.53 


.Mi 70 


220 


.27 


Sugar 


3.5 






94.25 


897 


















Total 


31.9 


105.69 


114.44 


556.94 


3,825 


16.92 

















Total carbon, 328.76 gin. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1 : 28. 
The nutrient value of the ordinary dietary is as follows : 

DlKTARY III. 



Articles. 


Quantity, 
ounces. 


Protein, 
grams. 


Fats, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grains. 


Fuel 
value. 
Calories. 


Nitrogen, 

|MM 


Fresh beef 


10.0 


41.68 


44.75 




590 


6.87 


Soft bread 


20 


:>:; s:; 


(i Si 1 


299.20 


1,506 


8.01 


Potatoes and onions 


16 


8.60 


.72 


',:', nil 


340 


1.40 


Dried fruit 


8 


1.77 


1.58 


50.70 


220 


.27 


Suirar 


8.5 






!M -J.-, 


397 


















Total.. 


52.5 


lin.ss 


58.80 


517.24 


8.0Q8 


Hi.iC. 



Total carbon, 828.76 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1 : 18. 



884 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

For the following combination, the several articles of the ration most 
closely approaching in character to the food materials used by natives of 'the 
tropics proportioned in quantity according to the standard proposed for hot 
climates have been selected : 

DIETARY IV. 



Articles. 


Quantity, 
ounces. 


Protein, 
grams. 


Fats, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel 
value. 
Calories. 


Nitrogen, 
grams. 


Fri'sli fish (cod) whole 


14.0 


31.73 


0.79 




120 


5.07 


Soft bread 


20 


53.83 


6.80 


299.20 


1,506 


8.61 


Rice . 


4 


8.75 


.45 


88.87 


407 


1.40 


Potatoes and tomatoes 


16 


8.17 


.54 


65.80 


297 


1.36 


Dried fruit 


3 


1.77 


1.53 


50.70 


220 


.27 




3.5 






94.25 


341 


. 
















Total 


64.5 


104.25 


10.11 


598.82 


2,947 


16.71 

















Total carbon, 327.50 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1: 19.6. 

On averaging these four dietaries, the mean nutrient composition is seen 
to be as follows : 



Dietary. 


Quantity 
in ounces. 


Protein, 
grams. 


Fats, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel 
value. 
Calories. 


Nitrogen, 
grams. 


No I 


52.9 


123.19 


53.55 


630.39 


3,677 


18.78 


No II >, 


31 9 


105 69 


114.44 


556.94 


3.825 


16.92 


No. Ill 


52.5 


105.88 


53.80 


517.24 


3,033 


16.95 


No. IV 


64.5 


104.25 


10.11 


598.82 


2,947 


16.71 


A verage 


50.4 


109.06 


37.97 


560.85 


3,375 


17.34 

















Total carbon, 350 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1 : 20. 

It will be observed that while the above dietaries differ considerably 
among themselves, yet when averaged together in equal proportions they do 
not greatly vary from the nutritive standard for the tropics already proposed 
and this is an additional reason why a selection of the same articles of 
the ration should not be luade from day to day. It is seen that the above 
average dietary, as compared with the proposed nutrient standard, is still 
slightly deficient in fats and fuel value and a trifle in excess as regards 
protein. These defects, if they may be considered such, are, however, 
readily corrected by a rotation of dietaries, in which Dietary II. is used 
twice where Dietaries I., III. and IV. are each employed but once. The 
results of this change are as follows : 



. Dietary. 


Quantity 
in ounces. 


Protein, 
grains. 


Fats, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Fuel 
value. 
Calories. 


Nitrogen, 

^rr:ni:s. 


No. I.. 


52.9 
31.9 
81.9 
52.5 
64.5 
46.7 


123.19 
105.69 
105.69 
105.88 
104.25 
108.38 


53.55 
114.44 
114.44 
:,:; 80 
10.11 
69.43 


630.39 
556.94 
556.94 
517.24 
598.92 
572.06 


3,677 
3,825 
3,825 
3,053 
2,947 
3,465 


18.78 
16.92 
16.92 
16.95 
16.71 
17.26 


No. II 


No. II. . 


No. III... 


No. IV 


Average 





Total carbon, 363.33 gm. ; nitrogen to carbon, 1:21. 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 885 

For the production of a daily dietary closely approximating the nutrient 
standard already proposed, the use of the articles of the ration in the fol- 
lowing quantities is suggested : 



Articles. 


Quantity 
per ration, 
ounces. 


-' 


i'l 


Carbohy. 
draMfc 
grams. 


Fuel value, 
Calories. 


2 


Fresh beef (quarters) 


10.0 
10 
6 
6 
10 
10 
14 
18 
20 
18 
20 
2.4 
2.4 
4 
4 
16 

16 

16 
8 
8.5 


41.68 
46.20 
27.54 
15.64 
40.27 
45.37 
81.78 
55.08 
53.83 
73.12 
50.40 
15.16 
16.38 
8.75 
9.20 
9.50 

8.60 

8.16 
1.77 


44.75 
62.90 
112.54 
105.06 
64.68 
1.18 
.79 
5.60 
6.80 
6.63 
12.40 
1.22 
.75 
.45 
.67 
.45 

.72 

.58 
1.53 


380.46 
299.20 
871.81 
425.80 
40.18 
41.80 
88.67 
88.75 
81.70 

73.09 

62.59 
83.80 
94.25 
56.05 
56.25 


590 
720 
1,093 
1,042 

r.ss 

197 
120 
1,850 
1,506 
1,926 
1,986 
240 
246 
407 
430 
880 

840 

297 
220 
897 
269 
269 


6.67 
7.85 
4.40 
2.49 
6.44 
7.26 
5.07 
7.90 
8.61 
11.74 
7.99 
2.42 
2.62 
1.40 
1.47 
1.52 

1.40 

1.30 
.27 


Or fresh mutton 


a pork 


" bacon 


" salt beef 


" dried fish (cod) 


" fresh fish, average (whole) 


Flour 


Or soft bread 


" hard bread ... . . 


" cornmeal 


Beans 


Or peas 


" rice 


" hominy '. 


Potatoes 


Or potatoes 80 per cent., and onions 20 per 
cent 


" potatoes 70 per cent. , and canned tomatoes 
30 per cent 


Dried fruit (average) 


Sugar 


Or molasses 


1 gill- 
1 gill- 








" cane syrup 





It should be understood, however, that these quantities need not neces- 
sarily be adhered to, but that they may be varied according to necessity or 
taste so long as the nutritive standard is approximated. It is not a question 
of the special articles of food employed nor of the amounts in which they 
may be used, but is rather one of the total quantities of protein, fats and 
carbohydrates yielded by the entire amount of food eaten during the twenty- 
four hours. By referring to the analyses of the articles of the ration given 
on pages 161 and 162, the nutrient value of any combination, in variety 
and quantity, can readily be calculated. 

Drink. Coffee, if not too strong, may be taken freely in the tropics ; 
tea should be used sparingly, as when improperly made it has a directly 
retarding effect upon the digestive function. In a few instances in the 
Philippines, weak tea and coffee, cooled in porous jars, have been kept con- 
stantly on draught in lieu of drinking-water. Acid drinks are much craved, 
but their use should not be too long continued as inducing dyspepsia and 
intestinal disturbances ; and the same may be said of the milk of the green 
cocoanut. 

The presence of an abundant supply of pure water is an essential in the 
tropics, and it is not a refinement of caution to insist that, under all cir- 
cumstances, water supplied for drinking should be sterilized by one of 
the methods already described. Recently, in one military department in 
the Philippines, the use of unboiled drinking-water was forbidden and the 
employment of water of this character regarded as disobedience of orders 



886 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

and treated accordingly. To assist in carrying this order into effect, a 
system of daily inspection of drinking-water and canteens was established. 
Precautions of this character, for ensuring good quality, cannot be regarded 
as excessive in a matter of such importance. If water be drunk rapidly 
and in large quantities, it passes into the intestine without being properly 
subjected to the germicidal action of the gastric juices, and hence permits 
the introduction of pathogenic micro-organisms, in viable condition, into 
the more favorable habitat of the bowel. Further, it dilutes the intestinal 
juices and impairs their activity. The temptation in the tropics is to drink 
too much and too often. This relieves thirst but temporarily, increases 
perspiration, adds to the discomfort and is prone to induce gastro-intestinal 
disorders ; hence, it is well to form the habit of rarely drinking between 
meals this being readily acquired by force of will. It is important to 
remember that it is not so much the rapid introduction of fluid into the 
stomach which allays thirst as its gradual passage over the back of the 
mouth and fauces. 

For drinking purposes, too warm water is nauseating and has no direct 
influence upon the reduction of body-heat. Hence it is .important to cool 
the drinking-water, and this may readily be accomplished by placing it, 
preferably after sterilization, in porous earthenware jars, canvas buckets or 
suitable receptacles wrapped in linen, felt or other suitable material which 
has been wet, and swinging the same in a current of air, preferably in a 
window or under a tree, the contents being cooled by surface evaporation. 
Where ice is available, it may be more conveniently used to lower the tem- 
perature of the drinking-water, but a pleasant degree of coolness can always 
be readily obtained by the method just given. Iced water, when used in 
excess, has a tendency to benumb the mucous coat of the digestive tract and 
largely diminish its powers of absorption for the time being ; but cold water 
is never dangerous if drunk slowly or taken in small quantities, even if the 
individual be greatly over-heated. Its ill-effects lie wholly in its abuse. 

Artificial Refrigeration. The lack of ice and of cold-storage facili- 
ties is a want most keenly felt by all natives of cold countries transported 
to the tropics, and their presence conduces much to the health and comfort 
of this class. Particularly is this the case with regard to the sick, in the 
proper treatment of whose diseases, notably sunstroke and typhoid fever, 
the use of ice is often essential. Formerly difficult to obtain, the natural 
product was carried in vessels from colder climates ; but now ice may be 
artificially manufactured at any point in the tropics, and at slight cost, by 
the simple application of a few elementary physical laws. At present there 
are a large number of forms of apparatus for the production of artificial re- 
frigeration, but the operation of aU are dependent upon the fact that heat is 
necessary for the expansion of gases, and that this heat is abstracted from 
bodies with which the gas, at the time of expansion, is in close relation. 

The principle of the De La Vergne refrigerating system is extremely 
simple, and may be looked upon as a type of the ordinary apparatus in com- 
mon use. Ammonia-gas and oil are received into a compressor from which 
they are discharged together into the oil cooler. The cooled oil drops into 
the first tank while the gas continues into the condenser, where it is lique- 
fied and collects in the second tank. The liquid ammonia is taken off from 
a point near the top of the second tank. A little oil is taken over from the 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 



887 



condenser and is conveyed by a pipe, as shown in the accompanying dia- 
gram, to a point near the bottom of the second tank, where it remains ; since 
it is heavier than liquid ammonia and cannot rise to get into the liquid pipe 
of the ammonia supply. The liquid ammonia is then passed through the 
expansion -cock into the expansion-coil, where it volatilizes into ammonia 
vapor, which is drawn off' into the compressor to pass around again in the 
order described. 

The Condict system, in utilizing the heat-absorbing qualities of am- 
monia, takes advantage of the strong affinity which this gas has for water 
the latter being employed merely as a carrier. Advantage is also taken 
of the fact that ammouia-gas, having taken up a given quantity of heat, 
will, on its being absorbed by water, give it out again. The operation of 
the system depends on the generation of anhydrous ammonia-gas from aqua 
ammonia in a retort by means of heat direct from steam. The heat is then 
removed from the gas by condensing or liquefying it in suitable coils of pipe 
by lowering its temperature by means of running water on the outside of the 



OOOLING WATCH. 



OIL COOLER. 



OIL HCTUHH >IH. 




COOLING WATCfl. 



CONDENSER. 



OIL MTU** 



I I I 



EXPANSION COIL. 



i 1 i 



7 I 

COCK. 

Fio. 372. Diagram of De La Vergne Refrigerating System. 

coils. The liquefied ammonia is then admitted through a small opening in 
a valve into other coils of pipe. Here, because of the reduced pressure, the 
ammonia assumes the gaseous state, taking up heat in the process from 
the surrounding material and producing the desired refrigeration. Having 
taken up its necessary quantity of heat, the ammonia-gas passes into a Suit- 
ably designed receptacle known as an absorber and is quickly taken up by 
the weaker aqua ammonia, delivered through a valve from the retort where 
the gas has originally been driven off from it. Here also the heat, which 
the gas has taken up in the expansion-coils, is given out by virtue of the 
union of the weaker aqua ammonia with the gas ; and the heat so given off 
is carried away by the cooling water which circulates through the tttbes of 
the absorber. Having disposed of its heat, the ammonia is now ready to 
be returned to the retort and the cycle repeated. This is done by means 
of an ammonia feed-pump which receives the strong aqua ammonia from 
the absorber and delivers it to the retort ; the aqua or water ammonia thus 
acting as a carrier of the ammonia-gas. 

For the utilization of the cold produced in the two systems above de- 



888 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

scribed, two methods are in use. In the first, the ammonia expansion-coils 
are placed in a tank filled with a saturated solution of common salt in 
water, this not freezing at a temperature as low as that of zero. This brine 
gives up the heat necessary for the expansion of the ammonia and thus its 
temperature is continually lowered, the quantity of heat lost naturally de- 
pending upon the amount of ammonia admitted to the expansion-coils. To 
apply practically to refrigerating purposes the cold stored in the brine, the 
fluid is pumped through coils of pi{>e placed in the apartment to be refrig- 
erated the process being analogous to that of heating rooms by steam 

and is finally returned to the brine-tank to be again cooled. In the second 
system, the expansion-coils, instead of being placed in a tank, are run di- 
rectly into the room to be refrigerated ; the ammonia taking up from the air 
of the apartment the heat necessary to its conversion into the gaseous state. 




FIG. 373. Condict Refrigerating System. 

The Allen dense-air ice-machine is somewhat different from the fore- 
going forms of apparatus, in that it uses no ammonia and produces cold by 
the expansion of ordinary atmospheric air which has been previously com- 
pressed and then cooled by circulated water. Starting with air under about 
sixty pounds pressure, it compresses the same to about two hundred and 
ten pounds pressure, and in this state it is cooled in a coil immersed in 
water ; and then by an expanding engine the air is brought back to sixty 
pounds pressure, with resulting low temperature. The cold air is then led 
through pipes into the brine-tank and, if necessary, may subsequently, serve 
to cool a refrigerating-room, being returned to the suction side of the air- 
compressor of the apparatus. The machine is particularly applicable to pur- 
poses where no great amount of ice-making or refrigeration is necessary, 
and is much used on board ship. It is extremely simple and compact. 

The various forms of refrigerating machines are compared by the effect 

hey produce equivalent to the melting of a corresponding amount of ice. 

The melting of a pound of ice is equivalent to the absorption of one hun- 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 

dred and forty -two units of heat, the heat-unit being the amount of heat 
necessary to raise one pound of water 1 F. ; but in making ice from water 
more than one hundred and forty-two heat-units must be removed, since, 
whatever be its original temperature, the water must be reduced to 32 F. 
before ice can be produced, and, in addition, ice cannot be made with econ- 
omy without going to a temperature much lower than the freezing-point. 
Further, this proportion is still reduced by the inevitable losses attending 
the use of large freezing-tanks and the handling of the product. Hence the 
amount of ice actually produced is by no means as great as the theoretical 
refrigerating capacity of the apparatus, and for all practical purposes is not 
usually considered to be greater than one-half. 

Water is usually converted into ice by mechanical refrigeration through 
one of two ways namely, by the so-called "can" and "plate" systems. 




Fio. 374. Allen Dense-air Ice-machine. A, Steam cylinder; /?, air-compressor cylinder; C, water tank 
and cooling pipe ; >, expander cylinder ; E, oil trap. 

In the former, the fluid to be frozen is placed in galvanized iron cans, which 
are immersed in a tank of strong brine. The temperature of the latter is 
maintained at about 10 F. by the expansion of the liquefied ammonia or 
compressed air in coils of pipe submerged in the brine which surrounds the 
can. The low temperature of the brine causes the water to give up its heat ; 
the ice being first formed on the sides and bottom of the can and the center 
being the last to become solid. The cake of ice thus made is loosened from 
the can by dipping the latter into tepid water. Because of the continual sep- 
aration of whatever impurities may be present in the water, and their con- 
centration in the center of the ice-cakes, by the action of freezing, it is 
essential that all impurities be removed from the water before congelation. 
This is best done by distillation or long-continued boiling ; the process ex- 
pelling the air and thus rendering the ice not only sterile but also transpar- 
ent. The latter is a quality which cannot be obtained with the use of 
ordinary water except by its constant agitation or rapid freezing, and then 
only in part. In order to economize in fuel, it is desirable to condense the 
exhaust-steam from the engine into water for the purpose of ice-making, 



890 

and for most forms of apparatus this steam has to be freed from the oil used 
in lubricating the steam-cylinder. This is accomplished by simple steam- 
filters and after condensation has occurred the water is again filtered in 
order 'entirely to deodorize it. Can-ice thus made contains but a small 
amount of porous ice in the center the latter being due to re-absorption of 
air during freezing and is not only clearer and purer but also more durable 



Doable 1 Inch Matched Sheathing Paper 

Between 
Air Space 

Doable 1 Inch Matched Sheathing Paper 

Between 
Air Space 

Double I Inch Matched Sheathing Paper 

Between 
Air Space 



FIG. 375. Insulation for Main Walls, Wooden Ice-house or Cold-Storage Room. 

than ordinary natural ice. The period required for the freezing of a can is 
usually about sixty hours. In the " plate " system, the ice is frozen direct 
on plates fastened to expansion-coils submerged in the water. The ice 
builds up on the plates until it reaches a thickness of about one foot, when 
it is released by circulating warm gas through the coils and thus melting it 
off; the plate of ice is then lifted out of the tank and cut into suitable 
sizes for handling. The mass of ice thus made usually weighs about a ton 
and requires about ten days for its production. A third method of making 
ice consists in" the use of stationary cells, having hollow walls through which 
cold brine is pumped. It is evident that in this method, as with the plate 
system, a whole tank has to be emptied at the same time, and, to make 
the plant continuous in operation, more than one tank has to be employed. 
With the can system, on the contrary, there is no loss of time or cold, and the 
blocks of ice can be taken out of the brine-bath, and cans filled with fresh 
water set in their places, without interrupting the operation of the whole. 
The principles employed in the manufacture of ice are also utilized 
for the cold-storage and preservation of perishable articles. The chill-rooms, 
properly insulated, are provided with an overhead arrangement of pipes 
through which cold brine is pumped or with a coil for the direct expan- 




Double 1 Inch Flooring Paper Between 

1 itch Air Space 

1 Inch Sheathing with Paper 

1 Inch Air Span 

1 Inch Sheathing with Paper 

MM 

Double 1 Inch Mulched Flooring Taper 

Between 



FIG. 376. Insulation for Ceilings or Floors, Wooden Building. 

sion of ammonia or compressed air. This system of mechanical refrigera- 
tion is far superior to the use of ice, since not only can a lower temperature 
be maintained if desired, but atmospheric moisture is promptly condensed 
on the refrigerating pipes ; thus giving not only a cold but dry atmosphere 
and rendering unnecessary the wasteful and unpleasant practice of trim- 
ming refrigerated meats before their use. While exact temperatures can- 
not be given for the preservation of all foods to the best advantage, it is 
sufficient to say that beef and other meats, vegetables and fruits are well 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 



891 



Doafctt 1 laeh Mucked 8bti>ln Piptr 

4 iMh Air 8pe 

Double I lack Mtidwtf SkuikUf fjper 



kept at about 35 F., and only a few articles, such as butter, cheese and 
poultry, are best preserved by a temperature below the freezing-point. The 
maintenance of cold below 25 F. is always undesirable except in the case 
of meats which are to be sent long distances in hot weather, and which are 
preferably frozen solid before shipment. 

Few investments in connection with the use of artificial refrigeration 
are more profitable than money expended on securing good insulation, since 
otherwise a large proportion of the available energy is lost in overcoming 
the effects of heat transmitted through the walls of the plant. To prevent 
this loss, there should be an air-tight surface toward the source of the heat 
and insulating strata toward the cold side of the wall. It should be re- 
membered that air is one of the best non-conductors of heat, provided it be 
kept still ; but if allowed opportunity to form currents it will convey a large 
amount of heat from the outer to 
the inner wall, since rapid move- 
ment results when air is free to move 
between walls differing even a few 
degrees in temperature. The meth- 
od of securing insulation is shown in 
the accompanying diagrams. The 
filling-in of the interspaces with 
loose non-conducting material is un- 
necessary and possesses certain dis- 
advantages. The penetration of air 
and moisture should be specially 
guarded against by the use of pitch 
in connection with buildings of 
brick or stone; or of paper when 
wood is used. Whatever the mate- 
rials chosen for purposes of insula- 
tion, they should be free from un- 
pleasant odor and be non-absorbent. 
In securing insulation in wooden 
buildings, all joints should be laid in white lead and the insulating paper 
should be carefully folded and laid so as to overlap. Since the flow of heat 
is nearly proportional to the difference of temperature between the inside and 
outside wall, this fact must be given full consideration in arranging insulation, 
for what is sufficient for a refrigerator or cold-storage room in a fairly cool 
climate would be totally inadequate in the case of a freezing-room in the 
tropics. 

Clothing. This, in the tropics, should not only protect from the rays 
of the sun, as well as from chilling, but should favor the evaporation of 
sweat and the dissipation of body-heat. It should be light in both weight 
and color, but should not be too thin, as a certain amount of substance in 
military clothing is desirable for durability and protection of the person 
against traumatism. While to have all garments of wool would be 
unreasonably oppressive, an entire cotton dress would be dangerous for men 
liable to the sudden exertions of military life, and it is probable that the 
combination of thin cotton outer-garments with light woolen underclothing 
is best for the tropics. As the temperature in the tropics undergoes but 




FIG. 377. Door for Cold-Storage Rooms and Ice- 
houses. 



892 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

slight variation during the year, no change in the weight or texture of the 
clothing is required for different seasons. 

For field service, the color selected for the uniform should be a light 
dusty-brown, as being best calculated to conceal the discolorations produced 
by hard service and also being less absorbent of solar heat. Such a color is, 
however, less inconspicuous than under the ordinary conditions of environ- 
ment as found in temperate climates, since the prevailing color of vegeta- 
tion in the tropics, throughout the entire year, is green rather than brown. 
Theoretically, from the standpoint of conspicuousness on the firing line, the 
field uniform for the tropics should be of a shade obtained by blending a 
light green and brown ; but the comparatively slight advantage of such a 
color over the present light brown would seem to be counterbalanced by 
the uudesirability of requiring an already overworked supply department to 
provide special uniforms for the tropics, the color of which for troops re- 
moved to other surroundings, as for this country or during the late expedi- 
tion in China, would be much less desirable than that now in use. For 
garrison duty, uniforms of white cotton duck may be issued a more showy 
combination for parades being white helmets and trousers and thin blouses 
of dark blue serge. White, however, has the great disadvantage of soiling 
readily and presenting a bad appearance without constant washing. This 
latter defect was avoided to a considerable extent in the uniform of white 
striped with light blue, used by the Spanish troops on tropical service. 

In cut, clothing should be very loose to permit of the ready renewal of 
the layer of air in contact with the body and the lowering of temperature 
through facilitating evaporation of perspiration. There should be perfect 
freedom of action in respect to the body and limbs. The collar of the 
blouse should turn down ; the handkerchief, if necessary, being tied around 
the neck for its protection. All folds and reduplications of cloth, except 
a central pleat down the back of the blouse, should be avoided. The latter 
may serve a useful purpose in giving additional protection to the spine 
against the solar rays and thus assist in guarding against sunstroke. In cut, 
the present khaki uniform is admirable ; but the blouse may be improved 
by working ventilating holes in the arm-pits to allow the more free entrance 
of air. The khaki cloth at present used in the field uniform is cheap, and 
obviously possesses many excellent qualities for the purpose for which it is 
employed. Though much lighter than the blue uniform cloth, it is, how- 
ever, somewhat too heavy and dense for comfort, and is so tightly woven 
as to interfere seriously with the passage of air more so than would be the 
case with light serge. These very qualities of heaviness, smoothness of 
surface and close texture, however, confer a durability which is of the great- 
est value during hard field service. For securing this durability, it is im- 
portant that the cloth employed should be of the best grade attainable ; 
since transportation is a most serious problem in the field, and with widely 
scattered forces the distribution of new clothing is often slow and difficult. 
A better quality of clothing means that the soldier can march with a lighter 
supply, and that the latter need not be renewed as frequently. No eco- 
nomical advantage ultimately results from the issue of articles of inferior 
quality, and such action may also be productive of hardship to the soldier 
through the wearing out of his garments under hard service at a time when 
their replacement is a matter of the most difficulty. Khaki uniforms should 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 893 

be issued in a standard grade, since, after washing, shrinkage at present not 
only occurs but the material made by different manufacturers assumes a 
variety of colors, from almost white to brown. The torrential rains of the 
wet season render the use of water-repellent clothing essential, and for this 
purpose all outer clothing issued to the soldier should have been water- 
proofed with lanolin or acetate of aluminum by the methods referred to 
elsewhere. 

The flannel shirt is an ideal garment for military use in any climate. 
For tropical service it is superior to the chambray shirt, now issued, but 
should be made of light-weight material and should be dyed a brown color 
to correspond with the khaki uniform. The general tendency among troops 
at present is to wear the blue flannel shirt and khaki trousers in place of 
the chambray shirt and khaki blouse and trousers. The undershirt is rarely 
worn with this garment during the day, but is sometimes donned at night 
to protect the skin from the irritating contact of the flannel. The use of 
the flannel shirt at niglit gives excellent results in preventing chilling of 
the abdomen. It is of interest to note 
that the Italian soldiers at Massowah, 
in 1885, simply bound a strip of cloth 
around the body in lieu of a shirt. 

All elastic substances soon lose their 
elasticity in hot climates; and elastic 
braces in particular, being continually sat- 
urated with perspiration, rapidly become 
stretched and unserviceable. For tropi- 
cal service, suspenders are thus advanta- FIG. am-summer Helmet, 
geously made of cotton webbing. It is 

particularly necessary in the tropics that the use of all confining waist-belts 
and cross-straps should be avoided. 

While the head-gear is of great importance in all climates, it is of the 
first interest in the tropics ; since the head is the part which is at the same 
time the most sensitive and most exposed to the rays of the sun, and 
with its proper protection sunstroke is largely avoided. The head-gear 
should be large, light in weight and color, and should permit free circula- 
tion of air and afford protection against sun and rain. It should not only 
shade the eyes but should also protect the back of the neck. In the French 
and English colonial services, the cork helmet, covered with light gray or 
brown cloth and with visors lined with green, is worn during campaign. 
In our own service, the white helmet is used only for parade or garrison 
duty ; but a special khaki-covered helmet has been issued to certain volun- 
teer regiments in the Philippines. The white helmet is composed of two 
thicknesses of cork, laminated and cemented together with shellac. The 
sweat-leather is on a frame hoop, well separated from the shell, for purposes 
of ventilation, by small corks securely fastened in place. Ventilation at the 
top is assured by an adjustable ventilator. The helmet is covered with 
cotton drilling and weighs 6.8 ounces when finished. In the French and 
English colonial services, the so-called puggarees are worn, but these are 
inconvenient on horseback, particularly when riding fast. During the 
British campaign in the Soudan, cork helmets were used and each man 
was supplied with a veil. Pith helmets are useless in a wet climate. Like 




894 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

the light white helmet issued in our service for garrison use, they soon 
become sodden with rain, lose their shape and fall to pieces. Straw hats, 
as worn by the Spanish troops, are an excellent protection against the heat 
and are light and inexpensive. They are, however, readily crushed and 
broken and soon become worthless in wet weather. For service where a 
change of hats cannot be made, the campaign hat is the only head-gear 
which has fully answered all purposes. When provided with a separated 
sweat-band and with large ventilators of wire-gauze in the sides, if thor- 
oughly waterproofed with lanolin and worn with a pointed peak, it affords 
sufficient protection against the sun, perfectly protects against the rain and 
is much more comfortable and useful at night than is the helmet. Without 
waterproofing, this hat soon breaks down and becomes unfit for use during 
the rainy season. During the very hot hours of the day, the wearing of a 
wet handkerchief, leaves or grass inside the crown of the hat may some- 
times be of service in adding to the protection against the solar rays. 

Next to the head it is the abdomen which, in the tropics, especially re- 
quires protection. This, in our service, is well afforded by the flannel shirt 
and drawers worn by the soldier, and hence recourse to the abdominal 
bandage, held in such high esteem in the British and French colonial ser- 
vices, is unnecessary. However desirable such an additional protection 
may be in time of cholera or diarrhoaal epidemic, the value of its general 
use in the tropics may seriously be questioned. To march on a hot day 
with such a band over the abdomen is evidently illogical, since it increases 
the temperature and weakens the powers of resistance, thus perhaps even 
predisposing to the diarrhrea which it was intended to prevent. The na- 
tive West Indian troops of the British army wear a species of zouave uni- 
form, the trousers of which are cut unusually high in the waist and so 
afford an excellent protection to the abdomen. 

In India, putties form part of the military uniform. They are worn 
over the trousers and give support and protection to the legs, but appear 
to possess no advantages over the regulation canvas legging of our service, 
besides being more difficult of adjustment. Cotton stockings are probably 
best for wear in the tropics, though some prefer those of light wool for 
marching. The present style of russet shoe, on the whole, appears to give 
satisfaction for tropical use ; but it is questionable if a well-made canvas 
shoe, with heavy leather toe-cap, would not be preferable. It is of par- 
ticular importance that shoes should be well-fitting, since abrasions of the 
cuticle of the feet are a special source of danger in the tropics through the 
constant opportunity for their infection by the agents producing tropical 
ulcerations. Rubber-boots should be supplied to guards during the rainy 
season. 

Shelter. The same general principles for the selection of the site for 
camp or barracks in temperate regions, already given, apply wifch even 
greater force in tropical climates inasmuch as the question of malaria 
enters so largely into all considerations and it is of the greatest impor- 
tance that military preferences should not be permitted to outweigh evident 
sanitary defects of site. In general, garrisons should be established on high 
ground, where the temperature is lower, the air fresher and the soil dryer 
and more healthful. On the plains, malarial fevers are prevalent, humidity 
the great enemy of the white race is greater and the chemical changes 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 895 

in a damp and overheated ground go on more rapidly. The difference in 
temperature between day and night is always less on the plains than on 
higher ground. From military necessity, however, it is not always pos- 
sible to select an elevated site, and under such conditions a comparatively 
unhealthy station must usually be expected. Still, much in the way of im- 
provement may be accomplished, particularly in the special relation of the 
site to malarial marshes, its thorough drainage and the removal of too dense 
or rank vegetation. Herbage, kept closely trimmed, should be cultivated in 
the vicinity of barracks in the tropics to lessen the glare and the reflection 
of heat. The site should be selected so as to receive the full effect of the 
sea-breezes or prevailing winds ; the immediate vicinity of large cities being 
avoided. An obviously unhealthy station should unhesitatingly be aban- 
doned, after intelligent efforts at its improvement have been made, as being 
more economical of both money and lives. 

The orientation of barracks in the tropics should be such as to present 
the least surface to the more direct solar rays, and hence the long axis of 
the building should be east and west ; this rule, however, may often be 
changed in order to take advantage of prevailing winds. All buildings 
should be widely separated and should be erected en echelon, for better 
exposure to air-currents. In the British service, the minimum distance be- 
tween barrack buildings is fixed at sixty feet. The general plan of the 
British barracks in the tropics is a pavilion having an entrance at the 
middle with a squad-room on each side, the latter separated from the cen- 
tral hall by two rooms for non-commissioned officers. The lavatories and 
urinals are at each end, separated by short corridors from the main build- 
ing. The Spanish barracks in warm climates, and until recently those of 
the French service, are built in the form of a hollow square. This plan, as 
already stated, is highly inadvisable under any circumstances, and is par- 
ticularly so for the tropics, since it interferes with the free passage of air 
through the barracks and the resulting coolness. 

The construction of barracks for the tropics is a matter of the greatest 
importance ; many points having a practical bearing on this subject having 
been already discussed in connection with the construction of barracks for 
temperate climates. 

The material to be used for this purpose naturally varies with the antici- 
pated length of occupancy of the barracks. It should, in general, be of such 
a character as to prevent the transmission of heat and the absorption of at- 
mospheric moisture. For temporary habitations, wood is probably the best 
material, being easily worked and readily obtained and transported ; but 
for permanent barracks in the tropics it should not be employed, since it 
deteriorates rapidly under the effects of heat, moisture and the attacks of 
insects. This material requires frequent attention and repairs ; and thus 
wooden buildings, originally inexpensive, are ultimately costly. In addi- 
tion, they soon become infested with ante, scorpions, rats and other vermin. 
Hard stone is the best material for permanent barracks ; but porous stone 
should not be employed because of resulting dampness of the walls. In de- 
fault of hard stone, kiln-dried bricks, painted on the outside, will serve hol- 
low bricks being better as providing non-conducting air spaces in the walls. 
The roof should be of tiles rather than of wood or metal. Wood absorbs 
moisture and furnishes a convenient retreat for vermin, having also the ad- 



896 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ditional disadvantage of inflammability and the necessity of frequent re- 
newal. Metallic roofing is a good conductor of heat, and buildings so 
covered are unduly hot. Tiles possess none of the disadvantages above 
mentioned and, through the manner in which they are disposed, offer nu- 
merous opportunities for the escape of heated air from the building. In the 
tropics, the use of double roofs, the intervening space being well ventilated, 
conduces much to coolness and steeply sloping roofs rather than those 
which are nearly flat are preferable. 

liarracks should be of two stories and the upper floor alone used for 
living and sleeping rooms, the lower floor being devoted to storage and 
ottice purposes. If the building be a frame structure, it should be raised 
from the ground onjriers to a height of four or five feet, and the area under- 
neath the building and for a distance of several feet around its sides ce- 
mented or concreted. This concreted space, to prevent small animals and 
reptiles from taking up their abode under the building, should be closed in 
with strong wire-net of narrow mesh, should be frequently policed and should 
never be used for purposes of storage. Where the barracks are of masonry, 
the lower floor should be eight or ten feet above the ground and the subja- 
cent space thoroughly cemented and ventilated. It is of course particularly 
necessary that proper means for the conduction of storm-water away from 
the foundations of the building be provided. Whatever be the material 
employed in construction, the walls should be double with a free air-space 
about eight- inches in width between the two, and this air-space should 
have its own special ventilating apertures, properly protected, opening into 
the external air above and below. For masonry buildings, thickness of 
walls adds greatly to coolness. Lathing should be avoided ; plaster, where 
used, may be safely applied directly to the inner aspect of the double wall 
and thus afford less opportunity for the harboring of vermin. The walls 
and ceilings should be painted, a little coloring being added to prevent 
glare ; their corners should be rounded to facilitate cleansing, and the floors, 
if of wood, rendered impermeable. Floors of cement, vitrified brick or tiles 
are cool and desirable for hot climates. They are readily kept clean or 
disinfected and do riot absorb organic matter or harbor vermin. The out- 
side color of the barrack should be cream, light yellow or pale blue to favor 
reflection of solar heat. 

Verandas and galleries, at least ten feet wide, should run the full length 
of each side of the building. These should have double roofs, properly 
ventilated, and be provided with jalousies or Venetian blinds; since where 
verandas are open to the burning rays of the sun, the men are often 
unable to make use of them during the day and at night they afford no 
facilities for checking the direct admission of chilly air. Such screens are 
better fitted to the verandas than to the windows of the barrack-room, and 
should have movable blades so that they can be reversed to deflect tjie cool 
air upward and prevent any direct draft upon the men while heated by ex- 
ercise, disrobing or asleep. Doors and windows should be large. British 
army regulations for India require that there shall be one window for every 
two beds and five doors to each squad-room containing twenty-five men. 
Windows should be so placed as to oppose each other, to permit of more 
direct perflation, should be cut to the floor, and should be carried up nearly 
or quite to the ceiling to prevent the stagnation of the upper kyers of air. 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 897 

They require no glass sashes, but should be fitted with heavy wooden shutters, 
sawn transversely in the center, for use in chilly weather. These shutters, 
however, should be controlled by non-commissioned officers, and their clos- 
ure, except as regards the lower halves, will not usually be required. 
Nothing in the shape of window curtains should be allowed. The ver- 
andas should be protected against flies and mosquitoes by being tightly 
enclosed with fine wire-gauze, and self-closing doors of the same material 
should be provided. All windows and doors not opening into such veran- 
das should be protected in the same way. In the tropics, the native 
houses have no chimneys, but these are preferably placed in barracks. 
Fires will not often be required, but are occasionally grateful and an open 
fireplace does much to assist ventilation. The latter assumes a much 
greater importance in the tropics than in the temperate zone, since free 
change of air, besides that necessary for the dilution and removal of re- 
spiratory impurity, is of value for the lowering of temi>erature. In warm 
countries, however, the usual conditions of ventilation are reversed, since 
the interior of the house is often cooler than the outside ; and, hence, for 
the proper renewal of the air, the use of the wind, in connection with 
aspiratory flues, must be largely relied upon. Large outlets, carried well 
up above the roof and painted black, give good up-currents during the heat 
of the day. In cross-section, such shafts, irrespective of windows and doors, 
should present an area of at least one square inch for each twenty cubic 
feet of space to be ventilated. To ensure free circulation of air, it is im- 
portant that nothing be hung upon the walls or, indeed, given space in 
the squad-room except the bare equipment of the soldier. 

The regulations for the British troops in India provide that no more than 
fifty men are to be quartered under one roof, nor must the number of men 
in any one squad-room exceed twenty-four. Only two rows of beds are 
allowed in dormitories and these must be at least nine inches from the 
wall. But two beds can be placed in the space between two doors or win- 
dows and each bed must have at least 7.5 feet of running wall-space. 
Each man is allowed 90 square feet of superficies and 1,800 cubic feet of 
air-space. The height of the rooms is fixed at 20 feet and the width at 24 
feet. For hospitals, the superficial allowance per bed is 120 square feet 
and that for air-space is 2,400 cubic feet. In considering these figures, it 
should be remembered that over-crowding in the tropics is more immedi- 
ately marked in its effects than is the case in temperate climates, and the 
sanitary officer must be constantly alert to prevent troops being too greatly 
concentrated for convenience of administration. The barrack proper should 
be an entirely distinct building and used merely for living and sleeping 
purposes. All latrines, wash-rooms, storehouses, kitchens and mess-rooms 
should be in small detached buildings placed to the leeward. The kitchens 
and mess-rooms should be well protected against invasion by flies. In 
tropical expeditions, from the usually wide-spread prevalence of communi- 
cable diseases, it is advisable to look upon native dwellings as dangerous 
shelters and avoid their occupancy. 

The air is both hot and stagnant in many parts of the tropics, and its 
artificial cooling and circulation is practiced in buildings. To meet these 
indications, the punkah, tattie and thermantidote are employed. The pun- 
kah, much used in the Orient, merely consists of a framework of wood and 
57 



898 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

canvas having a fringe, this arrangement being swung backward and for- 
ward from the ceiling by a rope passing over a pulley and worked by hand. 
The therinantidote is a machine through which, by the rotation of a wheel 
and fans, a current of air is forced into a room. It has the great advantage 
of not only putting air in motion but also cooling it, through evaporation of 
moisture from thin, wet grass-mats suspended in the short discharge-channel 
through which it passes. The tattie, a loosely -woven mat of fragrant khus- 
khus grass, hung in the window, is much used in India in reducing the 
heat. The rapid evaporation of water sprinkled on such grass mats pro- 
duces a great fall of temperature in the room; thus Fayrer states that, in 
Oude, with a hot west wind, the thermometer registered 104 F. in the 
shade outside the house, 83 F. in the house and 68 F. behind the tattie. 
Merely by sprinkling water on the floors the temperature of rooms may be 
considerably lowered. If the air be dry, there is no difficulty in cooling the 
air by the evaporation of water to the extent desired. The evaporation of a 
gallon of water absorbs as much heat from the air as would raise 4.5 gallons 
of water from the freezing to the boiling point. As the specific heat of an 
equal weight of air is one-fourth that of water, it follows that the evapora- 
tion of one gallon of water will reduce 26,000 cubic feet of air from 80 
to 60 F. If thoroughly utilized, 1.5 gallons of water would be the per 
capita allowance for twelve hours, but as theoretical results are rarely to be 
attained in practice, this quantity will usually have to be doubled. In large 
cities in the tropics, these primitive methods of securing coolness will usu- 
ally give way to the use of rotary fans driven by steam or electrical power. 
At stations not directly connected with an electrical plant, small fans, run 
by a storage-battery, may be employed in hospitals. In this connection it 
may be mentioned that barracks, in the tropics, should preferably be lighted 
by electricity ; thus securing an excellent light without the production of 
any great amount of heat or vitiation of the atmosphere. 

It may be laid down as an axiom that, in the tropics, troops should not 
IKJ eucam^ted under canvas if more substantial shelter is available. While 
witli the improved tentage devised by the writer the question of tempera- 
ture and ventilation may be regarded as satisfactorily solved, the necessity 
of living and sleeping close to a moist and fermenting soil, without ade- 
quate protection against the attacks of insects, greatly favors the occurrence 
of typhoid and malarial infection. In the Philippines, it has not rarely 
happened that where troops were forced to bivouac even for a single night 
on damp or wet ground an immediate and very perceptible increase of the 
sick-list has been noted. Hence it is that a poor barrack, if free from the 
infection of disease, may be regarded as preferable in the tropics to the best 
of tents. 

For service in hot climates, the United States army regulation tentage 
is seriously defective and is extremely hot and close under the vertical sun 
and in the humid atmosphere of the low latitudes. This fact was commented 
upon by the inspector-general in his report upon the condition of troops 
in the West Indies in 1899, and the following comparison of temperatures 
was made by him in southern Cuba : 

Hospital Brk-k building with tile roof 84 F. 

Officers' Quarters Wooden building, tile roof, windows 
shaded 93 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 899 

Barrack Wooden building, thatched roof 85 

Barrack Wooden building, zinc roof 86 

Common tent, without floor 94 

Hospital tent, with floor 95 

Conical-wall tent, with floor 108 

These figures showed a difference of eighteen degrees of heat between a 
brick building and conical- wall tent. On reflection, it appeared to the 
writer that this excessive heat in the tents, particularly the hospital tent, 
was due : (1) To the impingement of the direct solar i-ays upon the single 
thickness of canvas of the walls and ends. (2) To the insufficient air- 
space and limited opportunity for the movement of air between the fly and 
roof of the tent. (3) To the inadequate size and improper location of the 
openings for ventilation. The writer therefore recommended: (1) That 
the tent-fly be enlarged two feet in length and four feet in width. (2) 
That this fly be raised upon a light false ridge placed one foot above the 




FIG. 879. Munaon Hospital Tent, Front View. 

present ridge, the latter being removed and replaced by a rope. The up- 
per ridge to be four feet longer than the ridge of the tent proper and to 
project two feet to the front and rear. (3) That the canvas comprising the 
top of the tent be cut out for a space two feet wide on each side of the 
ridge and running the entire length of the tent except for one foot front 
and rear. (4) That the tent fly be of white canvas better to reflect the 
heat rays, while the tent itself be made of drab canvas, properly to subdue 
the light in the interior. 

The above changes ensured complete protection of the walls and nearly 
so of the ends from the rays of the sun ; a large free space, at least one 
foot wide, between the tent roof and fly, from which the heat is readily 
driven bj perflation; and finally, complete ridge ventilation of the tent 
itself, rendering the stagnation of heated or impure air impossible. As at 
present arranged, this hospital tent has forty -eight square feet of ventilating 
surface where the regulation tent has less than two-thirds of one square 
foot ; and not only does heated air directly escape through this opening but 
currents of air passing horizontally over the netting under the fly exert a 



900 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

direct aspiratory effect on the air within the tent itself. The two-foot 
overhang of the fly, front and rear, implies the pitching of the hospital 
ward in tent sections four feet apart; the sheltered intervening spaces al- 
lowing free lateral ventilation, the complete isolation of patients, direct en- 
trance and egress of the inmates without the necessity of passing through 
other tents of the ward, and finally, a covered area for the protection of 
ward property. The temperature of the improved tent was carefully com- 
pared with that in an adjoining hospital tent of the old regulation pattern 




FIG. 380. Munson Hospital Tent, Side Elevation. 



and the new model conical-wall tent, and the temperatures in dense leafy 
shade and in the sunshine also noted. The thermometric readings were as 
follows : 



Time of 
day. 


In the direct 
rays of the 
sun. 


In the shade 
of a leafy 
tree. 


Munson 
tent. 


Regulation 
hospital tent. 


Conical-wall 
tent. 


Remarks. 


1. 


87.0 


79.5 


84.0 


89.0 


93.5 


Tent walls down. 


2. 


94 


80.5 


86 


94.5 


100 


" u 


3. 


90 


83 


86 


93 


97 


u u 


11. 


95 


84 


89.5 


99 


107 


u u 


12. 


97 


88 


93 


97.5 


106.5 


U K 


1. 


103.5 


88.5 


90.5 


96 


98 


Tent walls rolled up. 


2. 


104.5 


93 


90 


94 


93.5 


u u 


3. 


93 


88 


89 


92 


91.5 


u u 



These figures show a temperature in the improved hospital tent, with walls 
down, never more than 5.5 F. higher than in dense shade in the open air 
and once only 3 F. higher. As compared with the regulation hospital 
tent, the temperature of the improved tent averaged 87.5 for the latter 
and 94.5 for the former an average difference of 7 F. On one occasion, 
a difference of 10.5 F. was noted. As compared with the conical- wall 
tent, the temperature ranged from 9.5 to 18.5 lower in the improved tent. 
It was observed that this tent, with walls down, was only two or three 
degrees warmer than with walls rolled up a point of especial value in 
connection with the treatment of the sick, where the subdued light and 
comparative quiet and seclusion of the closed tent are desirable. This tent 
can be made warm and snug for any climate or sudden change of weather 
by means of a canvas flap, attached to the tent roof by one border, by which 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 901 

the ventilating opening can be readily closed. This tent has been officially 
adopted for use in the military service of the United States under the name 
of the "Munson hospital tent." 

The writer also recommended, for tropical use, that the present conical 
wall tent be provided with a fly, shaped in the form of a truncated cone, 
having a diameter at its base two feet greater than that of the tent, and sup- 
ported from a large ring and the center pole, the same as the tent itself. 
The length of the fly should, of course, be a trifle greater than the canvas 
of the present tent, exclusive of its wall. This modification has also been 
shown materially to reduce temperature and promote ventilation. To in- 
crease ventilating action further, the opening of the apex of the fly is made 
the same size as that of the tent ; the heated air rising between the tent fly 
and the tent roof exerting an aspirator}' effect on the air within the tent as it 
passes over the ventilating opening in the latter. The apex opening of the 
tent is closed during stormy weather by the movable cap as at present used, 
the latter being manipulated by ropes passing between the tent roof and the 
fly. 

The common wall tent, on account of its small size and lack of fly, is 
totally unsuited for use 'in hot climates. Troops who must live under can- 
vas in the low latitudes can be comfortable only when quartered in the 
improved tents, just described. Where tents of these models are not ob- 
tainable, a certain degree of relief from the heat may be obtained by pitch- 
ing one wall tent inside of another, spreading additional flies and supporting 
their corners away from the tent roof, or by erecting a frame over the tent 
and covering it with green branches. Where the old style tents are used 
during hot weather or in the tropics, they should contain only half the num- 
ber of men they are officially expected to shelter. With the writer's irn- 




Pio. 381. Munson Hospital Tent, Side Elevation, Fly Thrown Back. 

proved tents, on the contrary, the ventilation is so free that the inmates are 
practically in the open air, and hence an even greater number than the au- 
thorized allowance may be eomfortably accommodated. 

On marches or campaign, particularly in the rainy season, the shelter- 
tent will prove the most valuable article of the soldier's equipment. Wher- 
ever possible, the men should be instructed to raise rude scaffolds and by 
pitching the shelter-tents over these to raise their bodies well off the ground. 
In their effort to reduce weight, however, our troops in the Philippines have 
not rarely discarded even the shelter-tent halves during active field service. 
Where shelter-tents are not available, it will be rare that fairly waterproof 



902 

" lean-to's " or sheds cannot be quickly constructed from palm branches, 

grass or bark. 

Sleep. Wherever it can possibly be avoided, soldiers should not-be 
permitted* to sleep upon the ground. If this be necessary, the poncho 
should be used to protect from dampness, but it will usually be possible to 
raise the body above the ground on extemporized platforms. For tropical 
use, the regulation woveu-wire cot is inferior to one made of bamboo with 
a closely woven wicker top. The latter possesses sufficient elasticity to be 
comfortable even without a mattress, allows the passage of air and thus 
keeps the occupant cooler. For camps, the folding caiivas-cots, previously 
described, are of advantage. If mattresses are used, they should be of shuck 
or hair and not too thick. Feather pillows should not be employed. As 
f he nights are often chilly, one or two woolen blankets should be available. 

The use of the mosquito-bar is essential in the tropics. Apart from 
the irritability and loss of rest produced by the nightly attacks of these 
insect pests, their bites are now recognized as being a means for the trans- 
mission of malarial infection and yellow fever, and are frequently the starting- 
points of intractable ulcerations or painful pustules. The net should have 
a mesh sufficiently tine to keep out gnats as well as mosquitoes that of the 
mosquito-bar supplied in our service being much too large for the former 
purpose. 

The use of pajamas as a sleeping-suit is advisable ; this practice being 
cleanly, comfortable in hot weather and especially valuable as not permit- 
ting an involuntary exposure of the abdomen or body while asleep. In 
India, the use at night of a broad woolen sash or cummerbund, wrapped 
tightly around the outside of the cotton pajamas, is much favored. This 
special protection is more necessary from the fact that during sleep the 
physical power of resisting cold is much diminished ; and not only is chill- 
ing more liable to occur, but its effects are more severe than would result 
from a similar exposure during the waking hours. For this reason, the 
practice of sleeping in a draft or the open air, for the sake of greater cool- 
ness, is to be deprecated. 

In the tropics, the siesta is almost a necessity. The intensity of the 
sun. in its directness, requires that the middle of the day be spent quietly 
within doors, and during this period the men should not be allowed to leave 
the barracks. There is no doubt but that sleep during the day somewhat 
interferes with digestion and favors wakefuluess at night, and hence it 
would appear logical to avoid sleeping during the day in the absence of 
unusual fatigue or prolonged lack of repose. On the other hand, it appears 
to be true that residents in the tropics require more sleep than those who 
reside in temperate regions, and that, as a rule, nine or ten hours out of 
the twenty -four should l)e given to its attainment. Frequently, also, the 
siesta taken in the middle of the day is more restful than the fitful, slum- 
bers of a stifling night ; and repose, while itself of advantage, also affords 
a pleasant way of passing hours in which but little can be accomplished. 
The actual duration of the siesta should not exceed one to one and one-half 
hours. 

Work and Exercise. For the white race, the great heat of the tropics 
precludes the possibility of doing as much work as in a temperate climate ; 
to attempt it is to invite disaster for the limit of strength and endurance 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 903 

is soon reached under tropical conditions, and lowered vital resistance 
through fatigue is especially a potent cause of disease. The production of 
internal heat by muscular exertion is a matter too frequently overlooked, 
Foster stating that nine-tenths of the energy required for a muscular con- 
traction is expended in the form of heat and only one-tenth is represented 
by the work accomplished. Without condemning the troops to absolute 
idleness, the work to be performed by them should be reduced to the limits 
of strict necessity, and scavenging and other hard labor, particularly that 
which must be performed in the heat of the day, should be done by na- 
tives. Under no circumstances should work be done in the direct rays of 
the sun, between 11 A.M. and 3 P.M., and labor implying disturbance of the 
soil should preferably not be performed by white troops. 

It should not be understood, however, that tropical service and physical 
exercise are incompatible. It is true that the tendency in hot climates is 
toward a sedentary life and that indolence is a direct result of the relaxed 
muscular and circulatory systems, but this tendency on the part of soldiers 
must be combated in the prevention of physical retrogression and mental 
apathy. Exercise should not, however, be overdone; and the time for its 
performance should Ife carefully regulated. The morning, a short time 
after breakfast, is the best part of the. day for its accomplishment. Motion, 
even the most moderate, is always attended with profuse perspiration ; and 
men who expose themselves to the cool air of night-fall in this condition, 
with wet shirts upon their backs, are prone to chilling and resulting sick- 
ness. After morning exercise, however, the heat of the day follows and 
prevents any evils of this character. It is true that bad effects might be 
avoided were the men to put on dry shirts after the evening exercise but 
to do this is not always an easy matter for the soldier. Exposure to drafts 
while }>erspiring is always to be avoided. ' 

Marching. This, as far as possible, should not be performed in the 
rainy season, and should be suspended during periods of the greatest heat. 
Night marches should be as carefully avoided as those of mid-day. In 
general, marches should be performed from 5 to 9 A.M. and 4 to 7 P.M. ; 
the men resting during the heat of the day. French colonial regulations 
allow no marching for infantry between the hours of nine and three 
cavalry being allowed to march until ten o'clock. As far as possible, 
marches should be so timed that the rays of the sun do not fall on the 
backs of the men, nor should they ordinarily be allowed to exceed ten or 
twelve miles. In malarious regions, especially, the length of marches 
should always be reduced to the minimum if the malarious district is t><> 
large to be crossed in one or two long marches. Rapidity of marching is 
undesirable except under stress of military necessity. Since exertion and 
fatigue are great factors in the production of sunstroke and in the occur- 
rence of disease, it is important that the equipment and burden to be carried 
by the soldier should be lightened as far as possible. For this purpose, the 
employment of native porters is usually necessary. The ordinary load for 
native carriers is from 40 to 80 Ibs. ; two carriers being estimated to trans- 
port as much as one mule. British soldiers, in the tropics, carry only their 
arms, ammunition and canteens, and the remainder of the equipment is 
transported by carriers. In the Soudan expedition of the British, the 
number of porters accompanying the column equalled that of the combat- 



904 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

ant force; while on the march from Cabul to Candaliar, in 1880, with 
10,148 troops there were 8,143 native followers and 11,224 transport ani- 
mals In the Dahomey expedition of the French, the weight carried by 
the soldier amounted to about 32 Ibs. ; the remainder of the equipment, 
weighing 30 Ibs. per man, being transported by carriers. The native soldier 
of the French colonial army, however, is required to carry his own complete 
equipment, the weight of which is about 60 Ibs. Frequent rests should be 
given at suitable points during the march, the men being especially cau- 
tioned not to lie down on the ground. Asphyxia supervening on extreme 
fatigue has l>een frequently noticed in the French army in Algeria, par- 
ticularly during the occurrence of the sirocco. Even mania has followed 
protracted marching in the tropics; and in Bugeaud's expedition into Tunis 
in 183fi there were eleven suicides recorded in the French forces. 

Insolation. No precaution should be neglected in the prevention of 

sunstroke, which is one of the most serious calamities liable to affect 
white troops during campaign in the tropics. Thus it is reported by 
Morehead that in India, in 1858, the Seventy-first regiment lost 89 men 
by death from insolation between the 5th of May and the 15th of August. 
The frequency of sunstroke among the British troops in India was very 
great when the soldier was required to carry the same weight and wear the 
same uniform as in England, but became much rarer when a special system 
in this respect was adopted for tropical service. In the expedition of Bu- 
geaud in Algeria, just mentioned, more than 200 men were reported as 
being simstruck ; but during the campaign of the French army in Mexico 
insolation was rare, probably through the altitude of the region in which 
military operations were conducted. The extinction of vitality by extreme 
heat is also common in temperate climates during the heated period ; being 
perhaps almost as frequent as in the tropics. This is probably due to the 
fact that, in hot climates, sunstroke is always apprehended and measures 
are accordingly taken to avoid it by modifications in the way of dress, 
weight of equipment, hours for marching, rapidity of marching and other 
conditions. In temperate climates, these precautions are rarely taken in 
summer and the soldier is thoughtlessly required to manoauver under the 
heavy garments and burdens of a winter campaign. 

Viry states that, on July 8th, 1853, two-thirds of a Belgian regiment 
were struck down by heat while on the march ; and that during the last 
war in Italy, on a hot July day, no less than 2,000 men in one division of 
the French army fell out of the ranks from this cause. In 1878, the Aus- 
trian troops occupying Bosnia lost many men from sunstroke ; one regiment 
on the march having 320 cases with 31 deaths, while the total number of 
cases of insolation during the campaign amounted to 2,131. In July, 1879, 
a regiment of Italian bersaglieri left 200 men along the road, overcome 
by the heat, during a march of 35 kilometers. Sunstroke is said to be par- 
ticularly common in the German army, and it is stated that on May 21st, 
1827, the troops manceuveriiig near Berlin were completely disorganized by 
heat, entire companies falling along the route and the cavalry losing many 
horses. In our own service, but little marching is done, during time of 
peace, until the heated season is past but during the ten years 1888-1897 
there were 523 cases of sunstroke. In the tropical islands, our troops have 
Buffered considerably from sunstroke during the past two years. During 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 905 

the recent relief expedition in China the great heat resulted in much suf- 
fering ; during the march on Pekiu there were 8 deaths in a regiment about 
1 ,200 strong, and it is said that at one time about one-fourth of the com- 
mand was unfitted for marching from this cause. 

It appears to be excess of internal heat more than sunshine which re- 
sults in the phenomena known as insolation ; and hence the condition may 
occur at night if the atmosphere, while hot, is also saturated with moist- 
ure, and heat dissipation, through evaporation of perspiration, is imperfectly 
carried on. Insolation rarely occurs at a high altitude and in a dry cli- 
mate, no matter how elevated the temperature. Laveran and Kegnard have 
found that as soon as the bodily temperature exceeds 40 C. it begins to ex- 
ercise a marked influence upon the nervous system; this being greatly 
increased if the head is exposed to the direct solar rays. Where the condi- 
tion of insolation is actually established, the heat-regulating centers are dis- 
organized and the temperature is extraordinarily high. Death results from 
the primary stimulation and subsequent paralysis of the nervous system by 
the heat. Exercise is a great factor in the production of heat-stroke, and 
a large proportion of cases among marching troops depend almost as much 
on exhaustion as upon 'high temperature. Animals made to undergo violent 
exertion are more readily made to succumb than those allowed to rest quietly 
and in the army it is the infantry which are most affected in this respect, 
cavalrymen being less liable to sunstroke than are their horses. Exercise 
greatly increases the production of body-heat, and Hiller found that the 
rectal temperature in soldiers after a hard march was that of a high fever. 
The mental strain and unconscious muscular rigidity which accompany mili- 
tary movements undoubtedly favor the occurrence of sunstroke. Anything 
which interferes with the loss of body -heat increases liability to sunstroke ; 
this including too heavy clothing, diminution of perspiration through de- 
ficient water-supply or lowering of the processes of evaporation through 
excessive humidity. If the atmosphere is both hot and moist, the loss of 
heat by the lungs is largely impaired; hence in a marching column, 
carrying with it a close atmosphere saturated witli moisture, it is the men 
in the center of the ranks who are most liable to sunstroke. The period 
of digestion is favorable to insolation, and it is the debilitated or intem- 
perate who are most liable to suffer in this respect. Insolation is undoubt- 
edly aided by the pressure of tight clothing, or the belts and straps by which 
the soldier's load is suspended from his person. McCartie, in India, records 
a striking instance in the Chitral campaign of 1897, when sufficient coolies 
could not be obtained and part of the baggage had to be carried by native 
soldiers. Before the end of the march, nearly all the men in the ranks 
were completely exhausted and some had heat apoplexy, while their com- 
rades, carrying a much heavier weight but having assumed the light and 
loose native dress, were not in the least distressed. 

The races indigenous to hot climates possess a notable immunity as re- 
gards sunstroke ; this, in the negro, being especially great and furnishing 
an additional argument for the organization of native forces for tropical 
service. Some of the symptoms of insolation are said by Notter to be 
caused by the reflected rays of the sun through the orbit, when the pt it- 
nerve is exposed to direct rays of light. In the British service, neutral- 
tinted glasses are frequently worn as a protection to the eyes, and the 



906 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE, 

sense of relief experienced by their wearers tells the advantage their use 
affords. Such glasses in the form of goggles were found effective in the 
Egyptian campaign of 1882, as a protection against glare, heat and sand. 
With a better knowledge of the character of light, it has been suggested 
that the actinic rays may be a strong factor in the production of insolation. 
These can be arrested by a layer of color used as a filter. Dark red, yellow 
or green is such a color, and the material or thickness in which it is present 
is a matter of comparatively little importance. A lining of such a color 
has been recommended for the head-covering and for the blouse directly 
over the spine. Recently, in view of the qualities and destructive effects 
of the Roentgen rays, it has been proposed, for the interception of the latter, 
also to line the head-gear with a thin layer of tinfoil. 

The advance to the condition of insolation is gradual, and its occurrence 
can be largely prevented by careful observance of proper administrative de- 
tail. The march should be so planned as to avoid exercising during the 
heat of the day ; while the length of the distance ordinarily traversed in tem- 
perate climates should be diminished or else the rapidity of movement 
lessened. Troops should march with as open ranks as possible, better to 
allow the access of fresh air to each soldier. Halts should be frequent, and 
at points which are well shaded, elevated and airy. During such halts the 
men should not lie down, since in very hot weather, particularly if the 
ground be bare, the soil is heated to a higher degree of temperature than 
is the atmosphere. Soldiers must have plenty of water, and hence can- 
teens should be tilled as often as possible en route. The water should be 
drunk in small quantities but may be taken at frequent intervals. If a 
suHiciency of water along the route is not assured, arrangements must be 
made for the carriage of a supply with the column. This matter is given 
careful consideration in foreign armies, all of whom have some contrivance 
for getting extra water into the field. Absence of proper provision of this 
sort has caused much unnecessary suffering in our own army, an instance 
of which can be found during the late expedition in China. The use of 
alcohol in any form, previous to beginning or during 'the progress of the 
march, should be interdicted. The clothing worn should be adapted to the 
climate, should be loose and the head and back of the neck must be well 
protected. The upper buttons of the blouse may be unfastened and the 
handkerchief worn under the hat to protect the neck. Troops should not 
march on an empty stomach, but a hearty meal should not be taken im- 
mediately before marching. 

During the inarch, company officers should watch their men carefully. 
If a soldier looks pale, weak and exhausted, he should be spoken to sharply, 
and if he does not respond clearly he should be told to fall out and rest or 
await wagon transportation. Where sunstroke has actually occurred, the 
man should be carried into the shade, his clothing loosened and his equip- 
ment removed. His head, neck and face should be bathed with water and 
the coolness from its evaporation favored by vigorous fanning. Where the 
patient is able to swallow he should be given water in small quantities at 
short intervals, and should be allowed to rest quietly until the arrival of 
an ambulance and medical attendance. 

It should be remembered that many cases of sunstroke result in per- 
manent impairment of the nervous system and in the establishment of 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 907 

future susceptibility to the action of the solar rays. For the military service, 
the maxim "oiice sunstruck, always sunstruck " may be accepted as correct. 

Excreta and Refuse. Where a sewerage system has not been kid, 
there is probably no better method of disposing of the excreta in the tropics, 
either in camp or barracks, than by the use of the Smith crematory, already 
described. Next in desirability comes the trough and odorless excavator 
system; following which the use of dry -earth closets may be employed. 
Where the latter is in operation, sheds for the storing of dry earth should 
be provided for use during the rainy season. The primitive system of privy 
pits can never be accepted by military hygiene, least of all under tropical 
conditions. Where cess-pits already exist in houses or barracks to be oc- 
cupied by troops, these should be thoroughly cleansed, limed, filled with 
fresh earth and sealed over with cement. Soil-contamination by urine 
should be guarded against, and night-tubs or other convenient facilities for 
its reception should be provided. The disposition of garbage and refuse 
should be scrupulously carried out in the manner already described. Where 
natives are employed to do work of a sanitary nature, they must be care- 
fully watched, since they are generally not thorough in their methods. 

Cleanliness. Bathing of the person is particularly necessary in the 
tropics, to maintain the proper function of the skin and remove perspiration. 
Ample shower-bath facilities should be provided, and each man should be 
required to bathe himself at least three times weekly. Discipline, how- 
ever, will not usually be required to make the United States soldier bathe in 
tropical climates, since the cool 'bath is grateful not only during intense and 
relaxing heat but serves as a stimulus to the appetite and a tonic to mind 
and body. Where a special reaction of the skin is desired, a few slices of 
fresh limes may be added to the sponge-bath. Bathing is best performed, 
in the tropics, shortly before the second meal of the day, and this can usu- 
ally be accomplished. Sea-bathing is excellent, but should not be carried 
out when the sun is high. The waters of many tropical streams contain 
various parasites and may perhaps serve as a means for the occurrence of mal- 
arial infection, but bathing in clear running streams is not objectionable. 

In the tropics, it is necessary for comfort and health that the under- 
garments be frequently changed and washed. Unfortunately the methods 
employed by the native laundresses for securing the cleanliness of clothing 
are extremely unsanitary, and the dirt is pounded out with clubs in the near- 
est water-course, however polluted it may be. The garments are then spread 
on the ground to dry and are kept sprinkled until bleached. This prac- 
tice is undoubtedly a factor of no mean importance in the prevalence of skin 
diseases; particularly with regard to the so-called "dhobie itch," which is 
so prevalent in the tropics. It is probable, also, that contagious diseases 
and insect parasites are largely disseminated through the unsanitary habits 
and surroundings of the native laundresses. Hence it is important, at all 
tropical stations, that steam or other laundries should be established for 
the benefit of troops, in which clothing may be properly boiled, washed in 
pure water and dried by steam or on lines and not on the ground. Such 
laundries should be under official control and should be frequently inspected. 

Habits. In the tropics, the mind as well as the body should be exer- 
cised. Intellectual stagnation is as much to be avoided as physical torpor, 
and nothing is so likely to prevent irregular habits and resulting disease 



908 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

as well-ordered mental employment. During one season of the year, the 
enforced restraint, the never-ending downpour of rain, the dull and leaden 
sky, the sad and depressing influence of dark and gloomy days are all com- 
bined against the soldier to create nostalgia, ennui and discontent. Con- 
ditions of this sort are particularly trying to men of active brain quality 
and nervous temperament, and such are not unlikely to resort to stimulants 
when weary, restless and fretted. Hence it is of special importance, in 
addition to'the imposition of light duties, that suitable sheltered spaces be 
provided for the recreation of the men and that every means be taken to 
secure their amusement. It is much to be desired that soldiers on tropical 
service should find pleasant means of passing the time within the limits 
of their own command ; for much communication with neighboring towns, 
with their ever-present incentives to vice, drunkenness and disorder, 
is to be avoided. Troops should be governed with a light but firm hand, 
and rigid discipline should be maintained. The number of native camp 
followers within the limits of military control, particularly females, should 
be reduced to the limits of strict necessity. 

The free use of alcoholics, always inadvisable, becomes a source of great 
danger in the tropics, particularly to young men and to the unacclimated. 
Hard drinking is notoriously a predisposing cause of liver disease in India, 
and its depressant effects are sooner manifested and much more marked in 
degree in a hot climate than in more temperate regions. This latter point 
is particularly, well demonstrated by the medical statistics of the British 
army, stationed as it is at points all over the world, in the temperate zones 
and in the tropics ; since it may fairly be presumed that the habits of the 
British soldier, with respect to the use of alcoholics, do not change to any 
special extent as he is moved from station to station. The rates for alco- 
holism and its results, at the various stations of the British army, are as 
follows : 



Place. 


YEAR 1897, 
RATIO PER 1,000 STRENGTH. 


DECADE 1887-96, 
RATIO PER 1,000 STRENGTH. 


Admissions 
to 
hospital. 


Deaths. 


Constantly 
non- 
effective. 


Admissions 
to 
hospital. 


Deaths. 


Constantly 
non- 
effective. 


England 


1.7 
1.9 
1.4 
3.7 

A 

S.9 
11.2 
15.6 
14.5 
4.5 
6.4 
8. 
5.2 


001 
04 
04 

"4 
' 03 


0.06 
.05 
.05 
.07 
.03 
.37 
.30 
.32 
1.82 
.12 
.34 
.07 
.22 


2.3 

2.8 
2 
3.2 
3 
5 
9.1 
7.8 
20 
4.8 
3.2 
6.2 
7.4 


0.04 
.02 

".03 
.02 

".08 

'.08 
.15 
.08 
.07 


0.08 
.06 
.0(5 
.09 
.08 
.18 
.29 
.19 
1.20 
.17 
.16 
.27 
.24 


Scotland 


Ireland 


( 'anada 


South Africa 


Gibraltar 


Bermuda 


West Indies 


Mauritius 


Ceylon 


China 


Straits Settlements.. 
India 





On averaging together the above figures, it is seen that for the five 
stations in the temperate zone England, Scotland, Ireland, Canada and 
South Africa the ratio of admissions for alcoholism in 1897, per 1,000 
strength, was 1.8; the death-rate from alcoholism was .018 and the con- 
stant ineffectiveness from the same cause was .052. For the stations in 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 909 

hot and tropical climates Gibraltar, Bermuda, West Indies, Mauritius, 
Ceylon, China, India and Straits Settlements the admission rate for alco- 
holism during the same year was 8.68 per 1,000, the death rate from 
the same cause was .09 and the constant non-efficiency was .445. For 
the decade 1887-96, the rates per 1,000 were: For cold climates 2.64, .016 
and .072 ; for hot climates 7.93, .06 and .337. These results are extremely 
interesting, since they show that not only do fous times as many British 
soldiers require treatment in the tropics for alcoholism as do in temperate 
climates, but also that the death rate from alcoholism is more than four 
times greater in hot climates than in the temperate zone. Full data as to 
the relative influence of alcohol in producing inefficiency among United 
States troops serving in the tropics and at home stations, under similar 
conditions, are not as yet available ; but the report of the surgeon-general 
of the United States army for 1899, which gives deaths alone, shows that 
during the period May, 1898, to June, 1899, inclusive, the death rate from 
alcoholism was .14 per 1,000 among troops serving in the United States 
and .296 for troops serving in Cuba, Porto Eico and the islands of the 
Pacific or more than twice as high in the tropics as in temperate regions. 
If it be objected that -soldiers actually drink less in the tropics, then the 
above figures for the troops of Great Britain and the United States should 
obviously be increased to correspond with the deficiency in the alcohol used ; 
if the soldier is said to drink more liquor in the tropics than in a cool cli- 
mate, the evil results of such excessive drinking are shown by the above 
figures. In either case, the claim advanced by some that the use of alcohol 
is desirable in the tropics is refuted beyond the possibility of discussion. 
Further instances showing the influence of alcohol in impairing military 
efficiency in hot climates have been given in the preceding chapter. 

Much as moderation in eating is desirable in the tropics, moderation in 
the use of alcohol is obviously even more necessary. If the use of alcoholic 
liquors is persisted in despite due warning, these should preferably be 
taken with food and the pernicious habit of constantly taking small quan- 
tities should be avoided. As to the character of the beverages used, there 
is little doubt but that good claret, taken with water, is the least harmful 
the other light wines coming second. Beer, in the tropics, is distaseful 
to many and provocative of bilious disorders. Spirits, particularly those 
of native production, are above all the most injurious, and the great 
dangers attending their use should be impressed upon the men. It is of 
interest to note that both wine and rum, in considerable quantities, are in- 
cluded in the rations of the French and Spanish soldiers serving in the 
tropics. In the British army, however, the soldier is now rarely allowed 
the ration of spirits, when on campaign in the tropics, to which he is 
entitled on field service in temperate climates. This deprivation was the 
result of earnest representations on the part of observing officers, both line 
and medical ; and the reports of the medical officers accompanying subse- 
quent expeditions have been uniformly enthusiastic in favor of the substi- 
tution of tea for alcoholics. There are probably times, however, as during 
extraordinary labor under malarious conditions, when a little alcohol may 
be taken with advantage. 

As regards sexual gratification by new arrivals, there should be a special 
word of warning. The habits of heat production, so necessary for protec- 



910 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

live purposes in a temperate climate, appear to be retained by the organism 
through its preliminary period of acclimation, even though not needed in 
the tropics. The genital function appears to be increased, while the lassi- 
tude incident to the tropics prevents the accustomed amount of exercise 
and so discourages the dissipation of excessive physical energy by other 
means. The result is a greatly heightened and exaggerated nisus gen- 
crutivus. Excesses in venery are especially trying to the unacclimated, 
yet the character of the lower-class women of the tropics is apt to be 
such that opportunities are not wanting for the gratification of passion. 
While always vexatious, the allied questions of venereal disease and pros- 
titution become, in the tropics, a problem manifestly difficult of solution. 
On the one hand are a large number of young men of largely undeveloped 
and unstable character, surrounded by constant temptations to venery and 
:.t the age when animal instincts are at their maximum. On the other 
hand, there is a large native population in which fornication is not re- 
garded as a moral offence but as almost a legitimate calling; and in whom, 
at least with the class willing to consort with the soldier, venereal disease 
is much more common than among the corresponding classes in temperate 
climates. " The hard fact remains that among a body of men, mostly very 
young and nearly all, by the conditions of the service, obliged to remain 
unmarried, removed from home ties and restraints into a country where 
climate and environment conduce to sexual indulgence, comparatively few 
are able to control the strongest passion in human nature and with disas- 
trous results." This, while written with respect to the British troops in 
India, applies with almost equal force to the soldiers of other nations serv- 
ing within the tropics. 

General Precautions. Chilling is not less dangerous than exposure 
to the direct solar rays. As the skin is constantly moist with perspiration, 
exjM)Siire to a current of air will rapidly induce great reduction of surface 
temperature, and this, while not necessarily dangerous, becomes so if the 
vital resistance be lowered from exhaustion or debility. If forced to remain 
quiet while bathed with perspiration, exposure to drafts should be avoided 
and, if possible, some additional clothing should be donned. In the ar- 
rangement of squad-rooms the beds should be so located that no air-currents 
can pass directly over the sleepers. For the furtherance of this purpose, 
screens and latticed blinds will come into requisition. 

Exposure to rain-storms should, when possible^ be avoided. Parke 
states, with reference to his travels in equatorial Africa, that "every one 
who gut a wetting either by rain or by submersion in a lake or river, or who 
was exposed to a chilly breeze after perspiration, developed fever as an 
immediate consequence. Beasts as well as men suffered. The inference 
is obvious." Wetting and chilling are also well recognized as predisposing 
causes of dysentery and intestinal disorders. Wet clothing should be 
promptly changed; the body being bathed with tepid water and rubbed 
briskly with a towel before putting on dry garments. If a change of 
clothing is not available, the individual should keep active until dry ; and 
under no circumstances, where the opposite is possible, should damp gar- 
ments be slept in. If troops are unavoidably exposed to continued wet 
weather, the administration of prophylactic doses of quinine may be advis- 
able hi malarious localities. 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 911 

In the tropics, great attention must be paid to the state of the bowels. 
Constipation is the usual effect of prolonged residence in a hot climate 
because of the fact that insufficient exercise is usually taken and it is not al- 
ways easy to get suitable fresh vegetables and vary the diet, because of the 
prevalent malarial conditions by which the liver is rendered inactive in its 
functions, but chiefly through the attraction of systemic fluids to the sur- 
face and their loss by perspiration. On the other hand, chilling or indis- 
cretions in diet are usually followed by diarrhoea and intestinal disorders. 
In all extremely malarious countries, a small prophylactic dose of quinine 
about five grains should be administered daily, preferably just before 
the evening meal. The routine use of quinine in all parts of the tropics, 
without special indications for its use, is, however, undesirable. 

It often happens that sickness is produced by very slight indiscretions. 
Young soldiers in the vigor of present health are apt to disregard proj)er 
precautions for its preservation, but they may rest assured that the impor- 
tance of the latter is not over-estimated and that any intemperance of habit, 
indiscretion in diet, or such apparently small things as a brief exposure of 
the head to a hot sun or the laying aside of underclothing during a stifling 
night may lay the foundation of serious mischief. On the other hand, 
nothing is worse for troops in unhealthful localities or in time of epidemic 
disease than a state of nervous expectancy or apprehension a condition as 
unwholesome as it is unmanly. 

Change of Climate. The advantages of change of air in the tropics 
have been established by long experience ; and special camps or stations, 
to which troops are moved during tlie unhealthy season, are used in the 
colonial services of France and England and were formerly employed by 
Spain. Altitude in the tropics reproduces to a less degree the advantages 
of cold climates, and hence it is frequently advisable jieriodically to abandon 
the coast and low plains for a sojourn in the mountains. In general, the 
height selected should be greater than fifteen hundred feet but need not 
exceed three thousand feet. For practical purposes, it may be considered 
that each thousand feet of altitude lowers the average temperature about 
four degrees, but this rule is subject to slight variations. 

While it not infrequently happens that individuals may live in the 
tropics for long periods apparently unaffected by the heat and climatic 
conditions, it is none the less true that troops recruited in temperate 
climates, as a whole, are ultimately debilitated by such conditions and 
and require transfer to cooler stations. The period at the end of which 
such change becomes necessary naturally varies according to the uuhealth- 
fulness of the locality ; but under no circumstances should white troops 
l>e kept in the tropics for a period longer than four years. The French 
limit the tour of service in Annum and Tonquin to two years, 
this period is undoubtedly somewhat long for the more insalubrious re- 
gions. It is stated that the Belgian forces on the Congo and the British 
white troops on the west coast of Africa are rotated yearly. For our mvn 
service, experience has shown that troops are so debilitated by service in 
the Philippines that to require a period of service longer than two years is 
inadvisable. For those seriously affected with such tropical diseases as 
malaria and dysentery, repatriation affords by far the best prospect of re- 
covery. 



D12 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

II. 
THE HYGIENE OF COLD CLIMATES. 

With proper precautions, intense cold is better supported by troops re- 
cruited in the temperate zone than is tropical heat. The low temperatures 
of the far north are healthful ; this being largely due to the small number 
of pathogenic micro-organisms capable of maintaining an existence under 
such conditions. It has long been noted that travelers in the circumpolar 
regions are unusually free from infectious disease, and Nordenskjold is au- 
thority for the statement that Spitzbergen, in summer, is the most healthy 
^.ot on earth. Levin has recently made a number of bacteriological ex- 
aminations of air in Spitzbergen and King Charlesland, a minimum of 
1,800 liters of air being filtered for each examination. In only one in- 
stance were bacteria found, the sample of air in that case being taken above 
the deck of a vessel and as only three colonies developed in this instance, 
it is a question whether a particle of dust from the ship did not get into 
the gelatin. On the other hand, all samples of water, whether taken from 
the sea, from glaciers or obtained by melting snow or ice, were found to 
contain bacteria in small numbers. In samples taken from the surface of 
the sea, Levin found only one micro-organism for each 11 c.c. of water a 
proportion of germ-life which is absolutely insignificant in view of the fact 
that the same amount of water taken from the Seine below Paris has been 
found to contain more than 2,000,000 bacteria. It is interesting to note 
that the same investigator found the intestinal contents of various Arctic 
animals and birds to be entirely free from micro-organisms ; thus demon- 
strating that the presence of bacteria is not indispensable to the processes 
of digestion. 

In the consideration of the direct effects produced by cold, it must be 
borne in mind that actual temperature is not the only factor to be taken into 
account ; dryness and stillness of the air permitting a much lower tempera- 
ture to be borne without discomfort than when the air is damp or in motion, 
while even a moderate wind will render a low temperature unbearable. Not 
only does much depend upon the degree of cold, but also upon the duration 
of exposure and the medium or manner of application ; and to these condi- 
tions may be added the extent of surface exposed and the general health or 
physiological condition of the individual. The great degree of cold which 
inhabitants of temperate climates can bear without ill effects is well shown 
by the experience of Arctic voyagers, Parry noting a temperature of 55 F., 
Franklin of 58 F., and Back of 70 F., or 102 F. below the freezing- 
point. Even within the limits of the United States, a degree of cold equal 
to that attained in the Arctic regions is often experienced during the fitter 
winters of the northwest; the lowest temperature ever recorded in the 
United States being noted at the now abandoned military post of Camp 
Poplar River, in eastern Montana, when the thermometer was said to have 
registered 64 F. In the central portion of Alaska, where a number of 
garrisons are at present maintained, all the rigors of the Arctic prevail; the 
winter temperature approximating that of southern Greenland. From these 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 913 

latter facts, the special measures calculated to promote the welfare and 
efficiency of troops serving in very cold climates may be briefly considered. 

In cold climates, according to Catat, the respiratory function is im- 
paired. Reasoning from the conditions already shown to exist in the 
tropics as compared with temperate climates, the rapidity of respiration 
should be increased while the volume of respired air is diminished. Tur- 
ner states that great cold reduces bodily temperature and diminishes the 
force and frequency of the heart beats ; Catat noting that the pulse of the 
adult Greeulander is often no higher than forty beats per minute. The 
appetite is greatly increased and visceral secretions are abundant, due 
to constriction of the superficial capillaries and the absence of sensible 
perspiration. The digestive and metabolic functions are proportionately 
active to the increased amount of food required. Cutaneous sensibility is 
much diminished, but the sensory organs appear to take on a condition of 
extreme acuteness. During winter there is a constant tendency to sleep, 
a condition of irritability alternating with apathy, and often melancholia, 
hallucinations and delirium. Payer states that the men "acquire an un- 
certain gait, like that of a drunken man." Moderate cold, and very severe 
cold when acting through no very great period, undoubtedly exercises a 
tonic and stimulating influence upon the organism; but intense cold, par- 
ticularly when prolonged, is markedly depressant. 

The temperament best suited to service in the far north is that known 
as the sanguine ; individuals of this character being endowed with a more 
vigorous power of assimilation, active circulation, florid skin, moderate de- 
posits of fat, large and firm muscles and the capacity for brisk movements 
and prolonged exertion. A notable quality generally possessed by this 
class is a superior power of producing animal heat under low temperatures ; 
justly esteemed by Ross as being of the first importance in those serving 
in high latitudes. This heat-producing power, however, is possessed 
in varying degree by different persons, even if of like vigorous organiza- 
tion ; a degree of extreme cold being merely invigorating to one, while it 
might produce painful or exhausting depression in another. Unfortunately 
there is no ready test to determine the existence of this desirable quality 
in recruits, yet it may be safely asserted that it is possessed by northern 
peoples Norwegians, Danes, Swedes, Canadians, New Englanders and in- 
habitants of our northern states in greater degree than by those from the 
south ; and by the white race better than those of darker skin. Natives 
of the tropics soon succumb under conditions depending upon the more 
rigorous climate of colder countries, and Baudiu cites the example of an 
English regiment composed of West Indian blacks, which, in 1817, was 
sent to garrison the comparatively mild station of Gibraltar, with the result 
that it was almost entirely destroyed by tuberculosis in fifteen months. 
In France, according to Laveran, similar conditions have been observed 
among the convicts at Brest, some of whom are negroes from the colonies ; 
disease, especially tuberculosis, making frightful inroads among the latter 
class and four-fifths of them being said to die annually. Among the 
military forces of the United States, the negro troops appear to possess an 
extremely great susceptibility to the action of cold as compared with white 
soldiers. Thus for the decade 1879-88, the admission rates for frost-bite, 
per 1,000 strength, were 6.33 for whites and 27.46 for colored troops; 
58 




914 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

while for the year 1889, the rates were 3.32 for whites and 27.32 among 
the colored. This great difference between the two races, in respect to sus- 
ceptibility to cold, is even more significant when it is remembered that the 
negro regiments are chiefly recruited in the more northern states since 
the fact that natives of warm countries are unable to 
resist great cold is too well recognized to require argu- 
ment. The negro troops themselves dislike service at 
cold stations, and it very frequently happens that where 
such soldiers are discharged by expiration of term of 
service from regiments stationed in Montana or Dakota, 
they refuse to re-enlist in their former organizations 
but proceed at their own expense, for that purpose, to 
colored regiments serving in the southern part of the 
country. It would thus appear to be advisable, as far 
na ' 382 '^htT tlc ver " as practicable, to recruit for northern service from 
comparatively cold climates and from white persons of 
the type and physical character above described. For cold climates, as for 
the tropics, troops should be mature and well developed. 

With regard to clothing, for service in the cold weather of the far north 
it is essential that the underwear, particularly that worn next the skin, be 
made of woolen ; and for such conditions the heaviest underclothing at pres- 
ent issued is insufficient. For troops serving in such climates, an even 
heavier grade should be furnished, and for this purpose nothing is superior 
to the loosely woven Jaeger underwear. During winter marches or expedi- 
tions, much warmth and comfort will be derived from the use of a wide 
flannel bandage encircling the abdomen. Too much care cannot be given 
to the protection of the feet, the parts usually first 
to suffer from frost-bite. One of the best arrange- 
ments for the avoidance of this accident consists 
in the use of heavy, soft, woolen stockings over 
which, together with the trousers, the so-called 
German socks, heavy and reaching to the knees, 
are drawn. The foot should then be encased in 
loose moccasins and Arctic overshoes put on over 
the whole. Shoes made throughout of heavy felt 
afford excellent protection against a high degree 
of cold and are both light and comfortable. They 
are, however, quite costly, and are not sufficiently 
durable to meet the needs of the military service 
where much marching is to be done. Further, 
they are totally unfit for service during thaws 
or when the snow is damp, since they readily 
absorb and retain moisture. During intense cold, 
the use of leather about the feet greatly favors 
frost-bite, and the foot-wear must be sufficiently 
loose so as not to interfere with circulation. The outer clothing should be 
made of heavy kersey or blanket-cloth and should be loose so as not to in- 
terfere with the circulation or muscular action. Many hunters and explor- 
ers use suits of buckskin or chamois over the underwear, but these soon 
lose their pliability. A thick woolen sweater would be a most comfortable 




FIG. 383. Canvas Overcoat, 
Blanket-lined. 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 



J15 




FIG. 384. Uniform Fur 
Cap. 



addition to the uniform in cold climates. Until recently, troops at the 
colder stations were supplied with overcoats of buffalo fur ; but the supply 
of these is now practically exhausted and canvas overcoats, lined with heavy 
blanketing, are issued in their place. These are al- 
most as warm as the fur overcoats and are much 
lighter, more pliable and closely fitting. The can- 
vas, however, becomes extremely cold to the touch 
during low temperatures, and to minimize this defect 
it is necessary that the collar and cuff's be well faced 
with woolen material. The present method of fas- 
tening this coat, with buttons and loops, is inferior 
to the use of light snap-hooks and rings, for ease in 
fastening and unfastening with benumbed fingers. 
For winter exploring or sledging expeditions within 
the Arctic circle, the outer garments should be of fur 
and fashioned according to the style of the Esquimaux. For the protec- 
tion of the head, two kinds of head-gear are supplied. A cap of muskrat 
fur is much liked by the troops and affords sufficient 
warmth and protection for ordinary conditions. It 
lacks, however, a chin-piece, and does not sufficiently 
protect the lower part of the face when marching against 
head-winds. A canvas cap, lined with flannel and hav- 
ing a chin and neck protector, is also issued at the colder 
stations. If made out of muskrat fur, it could scarcely 
be improved upon for military use where exposure to 
intense cold is required. Arctic explorers find the use 
of some protection for the nose to be essential, and for 
this purpose the face-cloth or nose-cover is much used. 
The muskrat fur gauntlets lined with flannel, furnished for use in cold 
climates, are warm, comfortable and deservedly popular among troops. A 
canvas mitten lined with heavy flannel is also authorized, but has not been 
issued to any great extent. Mittens are much warmer than gloves, and 
for expeditions in very cold climates the usfi of mittens, made of fur, is 
preferable. For military use, the method employed by 
the Russians to prevent the loss of the hand-coverings 
each being fastened to the end of a tape passed through 
the coat-sleeves is advisable. With the clothing just 
described, troops will be well protected under almost 
any conditions of temperature. Its provision is a mat- 
ter of comparatively recent accomplishment, and Wood- 
hull states that prior to its issue as much as fifteen per 
cent, of the troops at some of the stations in the north- 
west were incapacitated for duty, during severe weather, 
as a result of frost-bite. 

Next to the clothing, the sanitary precautions above 
all others in importance, for those sojourning in high 
latitudes, relate to the food supply. Deficiency in quality and quantity 
of food is sure to impair the strength of the men, favor the action of cold 
and invite disease; especially when conjoined with deficient sunlight, 
dampness, impure air, low temperature, defective cleanliness and want of 




FIG. H85.- Canvas Cap, 
Blanket-llued. 




FIG. 3H6. Fur Gaunt- 

It-t. 



916 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

exercise As to quantity, Franklin, speaking of food and clothing as sup- 
plementing each other during polar cold, says: "During the whole of our 
march we experienced that no quantity of clothing could keep us warm 
while we fasted, but on those occasions when we were able to go to bed with 
full stomachs we passed the night in a warm and comfortable manner." 
And Ross wrote : " He who is well fed resists cold better than the man 
who is stinted, while starvation from cold follows but too soon on starvation 
in food. In every expedition or voyage to a polar region the quantity of 
food should be increased, be that as inconvenient as it may. It would be 
desirable that men could acquire the taste of Greenland food, while all ex- 
perience has shown that the large use of oil and fat meats is the true secret 
of life in these frozen regions." 

According to Dalton, the amount of food necessary for a man in full 
health and exercising in the open air, for the temperate zone, equals about 
2.41 pounds of solids and 3.38 pounds of liquids or about one-twenty-fifth 
of the body-weight. These amounts, however, have been shown by experi- 
ence to be quite insufficient in Arctic climates where the loss of heat is great 
and oxidation goes on rapidly and fall far short of the ordinary diet of the 
native, which may undoubtedly be taken as a criterion, to a considerable 
extent, of the needs of the system under conditions of extreme cold. Ross 
states that an Esquimaux frequently eats as much as 20 pounds of flesh and 
oil daily. Parry's test of the appetite of an Esquimaux for a single meal 
was 8.5 pounds of meat and 1.75 pounds of bread, water not being counted, 
and the quantity was not considered extraordinary. In another instance, 
he gave to a young Esquimaux 10.25 pounds of solids, 9 pints of water, 1.25 
pints of soup, 3.5 glasses of raw spirits and a tumblerful of strong grog. 
In yet another instance, the subject ate of solids at a single sitting: 

Mis. OZ. 

Bread dust and train oil 1 10 

Walrus flesh, boiled 7 1 

Seal and bread 1 

Two tallow candles. 8 

Bread and butter 1 

Total 9 15 

At the same meal the subject drank two quarts of rich walrus soup and four 
quarts of water. Simpson states that a Yakut ate 9 pounds of beef and 4.5 
pounds of butter within an hour ; and Hayes says : " I have frequently seen 
an Esquimaux eat from 6 to 12 pounds of meat, one-third of which was 
fat, and I should place the daily consumption of the men at from 12 to 15 
pounds." Kane wrote : " I should average the Esquimaux ration at 8 or 10 
pounds a day, with soup to the extent of half a gallon." Such quantities 
of food are not considered by the authorities quoted as representing the 
extremes ; and using these observations in connection with the fact that the 
amount of food ordinarily sufficient in the temperate zone is quite inade- 
quate to support the system and supply the necessary heat in the Arctic, 
and that the explorer instinctively approximates his diet in both character 
and quantity to* that of the native, it is safe to say that the daily incre- 
ment of food for very cold climates should be equal to one-twentieth of the 
body weight varied according to the isothermal lines and that half the 
material so taken should be dry solids. 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 917 

In character, the best foods for cold climates are those concentrated 
forms which are readily and easily transformed into heat, and these are 
the kinds which are provided by nature in the abundant animal life to be 
found along the Arctic littoral. Fats are especially craved and are taken 
in large quantities, the northern explorer promptly adopting the practice of 
the native in this respect. Kane says : " Our journeys have taught us the 
wisdom of the Esquimaux appetite and there are few among us who do not 
relish a slice of raw blubber or a chunk of frozen walrus beef. The liver of 
a walrus, eaten with little slices of his fat, of a verity is a delicious morseL" 
Fresh meat should be used wherever obtainable and needs no special 
means of preservation so long as the temperature remains below the freez- 
ing-point. Where scurvy is to be dreaded, the meat should be eaten under- 
done ; and Kane recommends the use of raw flesh for this purpose, which, 
when frozen, he states is not at all distasteful to the civilized palate. 
No opportunity for securing fresh animal food should be lost by scouting 
or sledging parties, for the use of preserved meats in excess, except pemmi- 
can, is injurious and promotive of mal-nutrition and scurvy. 

From what has been said, it would appear that the present ration of 
our service is insufficient and improperly constituted for the use of troops 
serving at stations near or within the Arctic Circle. While sufficient data 
are not available to permit 6f accurate calculations on this point, it is un- 
doubtedly true that an increase of at least one-half in the meat components 
of the ration particularly bacon or pork would be of great advantage, 
and that, under conditions where great hardship and cold are to be under- 
gone, this amount should be still further augmented. 

With the fats and proteid, a certain proportion of carbohydrates should 
be supplied, especially in the form of bread and dried or preserved fruits. 
Vegetables are essential, either dried, fresh or canned. In their absence, 
the natives of northern climates supplement their meat diet whenever pos- 
sible by the use of angelica, dandelion, sorrel and bilberries; also by the 
contents of the stomachs of the reindeer, caribou, moose and musk-ox, these 
consisting of tine mosses and grasses in a partially digested condition. 
Fresh potatoes can be preserved any length of time for use under such 
conditions of climate by being covered with black molasses after being 
cleaned, pared and cut into small cubes. After washing, the taste and 
texture of the tuber remain. On board whaling and exploring ships, it is 
customary to germinate large quantities of seeds by the heat of the stoves 
and use the sprouts thus produced as vegetables. This could readily be 
done by troops stationed in the interior of Alaska and would often be of 
service. Where an abundance of fresh meat and vegetables is not avail- 
able, the daily issue of an ounce of lime-juice is advisable for the preven- 
tion of scurvy. Acid wines and home-made beers are also valuable for this 
purpose, but spirituous liquors dimmish the power of resistance to cold and 
their use is obviously dangerous. 

Tea is the favorite beverage in cold climates and is drunk hot in large 
quantities. The eating of snow to quench thirst should be avoided. 

While sledging expeditions in the Arctic have been exposed, without 
suffering, to continuous cold of as great a degree as 50 F., soldiers, on the 
other hand, have often been known to succumb to cold in comparatively 
warm climates and at a time when the thermometer registered by no means 



918 

a very low temperature. It may fairly be considered that accidents from this 
cause are relatively more frequent in the cold weather of temperate climates 
than in that of the far north, probably because of the greater precautions 
taken for the conservation of the body-heat under the latter conditions. 

Since the famous retreat of the Ten Thousand when a rigorous climate 
destroyed more Greek soldiers than did the Persians, great cold has fre- 
quently exerted a strong influence upon military operations. Voltaire 
states that in the winter of 1709 a large part of the army of Charles XII. 
was destroyed by cold, 2,000 men being frozen to death during one 
march. In 1719, 7,000 Swedes, on their way to the siege of Dron- 
theim, perished in the mountains between Sweden and Norway; while 
in 1742, in the retreat from Prague, 4,000 French soldiers died from 
ld and want. The sufferings of our own troops at Valley Forge are 
a matter of history; and in the destruction of Napoleon's army in Rus- 
sia, cold was by far the greatest factor. During the Crimean War, ac- 
cording to Viry, there were 5,290 cases of frost-bite with 1,179 deaths 
among the French troops; while among the English forces there were 2,852 
congelations with 463 deaths. Laveran states that during the winter of 
1870-71, freezing of the feet caused much suffering in the French army 
and there were many deaths from cold. In 1879, according to the same 
authority, a column of 755 men in the mountains of Algeria, at the end 
of the month of March, had 60 cases of frost-bite, of which 19 proved fatal. 
In our own service, for the decade 1888-97, the influence of cold on a 
constant strength of about 24,000 men was as follows: . 



Year. 


Cases. 


Deaths. 


Discharges. 


Year. 


Cases. 


Deaths. 


Discharges. 


1888 


141 




5 


1894 


58 




1 


1889 


34 




2 


1895 


54 






1890 


60 




1 


1896 


47 






1891 


62 






1897 


59 




2 


1000 


fii; 




1 










1893 


67 




1 


Total 


648 




13 



















It should be remembered, however, that of the United States forces but 
a small part was stationed in regions where frost-bite was liable to occur, 
and hence the cases reported necessarily related to a comparatively small 
fraction of the whole army. 

The history of congelation in armies shows that a state of low vital re- 
sistance, brought about by unfavorable hygienic conditions, plays almost as 
important a role as that of cold itself, and it is a matter of common obser- 
vation that accidents from freezing occur far more frequently among 
such soldiers as are weakened by fatigue, sickness and privation. During 
the Crimean War, the temperature was never very low, and a report gf the 
time suggests that the large number of congelations observed among the 
soldiers might justly be regarded as " gangrene owing to scorbutic tendency 
exaggerated by cold." On the other hand, troops which are well fed and 
warmly clad resist the most intense cold without injury, as has been re- 
peatedly shown in our winter campaigns against the Indians of the north- 
west. In the Powder River expedition of 1876, conducted during the three 
winter months, and with the mercury never above freezing and often down 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 



919 



to 40 F., Rosse states that in a force of about 2,000 men but 31 cases of 
frost-bite were reported, while no cases were reported among the 350 In- 
dians with the command. During the winter of 1891-92, when about 
6,000 troops were constantly in the field against hostile Sioux, only 62 
cases of congelation occurred. 

The phenomena which precede the death of the soldier from cold, while 
on the march, are well described by Larrey: "The dangerous condition is 
shown in the pallor of the face, by a kind of idiocy, by difficulty in speak- 
ing, by feebleness of vision or perhaps total loss of that sense, and in that 
state they march for a greater or less length of time, conducted by their 
comrades or friends ; the muscular action is weak and the individual totters 
on his legs like a drunken man. This weakness is progressive and is a 
certain sign of the extinction of life. Separated from the column and 
abandoned to themselves, they soon lost their balance, fell into ditches cov- 
ered with snow, a state of lethargy ensued and a few moments terminated 
their miserable existence. " 
There is sometimes muscular 
contraction during freezing, 
particularly of the neck mus- 
cles, together with symptoms 
like those of catalepsy. Ac- 
cording to Forestius, soldiers 
have been found frozen and 
standing with arms in their 
hands and the same thing 
was observed by Larrey during 
the retreat from Moscow. 

In the prevention of con- 
gelation, an abundance of nu- 
tritious food is only second in 

importance to sufficient and proper clothing. The extremities are usually 
the main points of attack, owing to their relatively poor protection and 
distance from the main sources of systemic heat. The feet are particularly 
susceptible to frost-bite, a fact showing the necessity of warm protection 
and water-tight, loose and comfortable foot-wear. To protect the hands, 
heavy gloves or mittens are essential, the latter being preferable. It is of 
advantage in diminishing the effects of cold upon exposed surfaces, such as 
the face, particularly in the case of driving snow-storms, thoroughly to 
anoint the parts with some greasy substance, as the fat of beef, pork or 
mutton, or vaseline. Whenever possible, hot food or drink should be 
served out to troops on the march ; and this may be accomplished without 
the delay incident to building fires by the use of the so-called Norwegian 
stove an apparatus readily improvised from an ordinary camp-kettle fitted 
into a thick felt covering. With this arrangement, the soup or stew is 
raised to the boiling-point, removed from the fire, the kettle inserted into 
the felt sheath and the whole carried with the column. The process of 
stewing continues automatically, and even after several hours' marching 
in the cold the temperature of the soup does not fall below 100 F. This 
method has been used with much success with moving commands in 
the Russian and Austrian services. If a march must be made in ex- 




no. 387. Norwegian Stove. 



920 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

tremely cold weather, it should be concluded as soon as possible with- 
out undue fatigue; the ranks being well closed up and no one allowed 
to leave the column. In general, however, if an army is well fed, well 
clothed and free from sickness, it can undertake a winter campaign with 
l>erfeet safety if the distances to be marched are not too long. Where 
frost-bite has actually occurred, the treatment consists in the prompt fric- 
tion of the affected part with snow or brisk rubbing when immersed in ice 
and water. Only after reaction is fairly established, should the sufferer be 
allowed to enter a warm room or approach a fire. 

The glare of bright sunlight upon fields of snow produces the condition 
known as snow-blindness, particularly when troops are subject to prolonged 
inarching toward the end of winter or in the early spring of the high lati- 
tudes. Since, in our service, soldiers are ordinarily housed in barracks dur- 
ing cold weather, the admission rate for this cause is usually low only three 
or four cases per annum but in the winter of 1890-91 there were 133 
admissions to sick report from this cause; chiefly among the 6,000 troops 
engaged in that year in the campaign against the Sioux of the northwest. 
In the month of March, 1894, of a company about fifty strong, marching 
a distance of about sixty miles during a period of three days, nearly all 
were incapacitated for duty by reason of snow-blindness. This condition 
may be usually prevented among soldiers by smearing the eyelids and 
upper part of the cheeks with a mixture of charcoal and grease ; but where 
exposure to the glare is constant, as in the sledging parties of the far north, 
further protection is necessary. For this purpose, dark goggles, fitted in 
frames covered with chamois skin, have been recommended. The "snow- 
eyes " of the Esquimaux are made of light wood with a bridge resting on 
the nose, like spectacles, and presenting narrow transverse slits for the 
passage of light. These are said to.be superior to goggles as a protection 
against glare, and are not liable to the accident of fracture. Under any 
circumstances, if snow-blindness is to be apprehended, the men should be 
marched in close column and each soldier directed to keep his eyes upon 
the dark clothing of the man in front of him the leading rank being fre- 
quently changed to the rear. 

Guard duty is particularly dangerous during cold weather, and sentinels 
should be kept on post not more than an hour at a time ; or a running 
guard may be established. When relieved from sentry-duty, the soldier 
should not l>e permitted to lie down at once but should be required to pace 
briskly around the tires until numbness has worn off. Under stress of 
severe weather, men should be told off to keep up the fires. 

If forced to bivouac on snow-covered ground, the piling up of snow 
around the men will afford great protection from cold winds, and, with a 
tire in the center of each cleared space, properly clothed troops, except in 
the severest weather, will sleep without much danger of freezing and often 
not uncomfortably. In the absence of other shelter, during very low tem- 
]>eratures, excellent temporary protection against the cold may be made 
from large blocks of snow cut from well-packed drifts or the drifts them- 
selves may be burrowed into by the men. 

Where canvas shelters are used in cold climates, the wall tent will be 
found superior to the conical tent on account of the height of the latter 
and consequent greater difficulty in heating. The tent for service of this 



THE HYGIENE OF HOT AND COLD CLIMATES. 921 

character should be made of double thicknesses of canvas, sewed together at 
the edges and quilted at suitable intervals to divide the intervening air-space 
into small sections and thus prevent the establishment of too great movement 
of air in this insulating space. The sod-cloth should be made in two flaps ; 
one being turned inside the tent as at present, while the other flap extends 
around the outside of the tent and is heaped with snow to serve as a wind- 
break and partially take the place of tent pins, always difficult to drive in 
frozen ground. Small apertures at the junction of the outer sod-cloth and 
wall are left to allow of the driving of such pins as may be necessary. The 
end of this tent, instead of being slit down the center to form the door, 
should be formed of overlapping canvas, giving a " double-breasted " effect, 
extending completely over one-half of the end and two-thirds of the dis- 
tance to the wall on the other side ; the ends of this canvas being provided 
with grommets and rings for fastening. The doorway of this tent is thus 
brought to the outer third of each half of the end, the aperture varying 
from one to the other side according as one or the other canvas-flap is 
drawn externally. The outer flap is now pegged at its end to a distance 
of several feet away from the tent. The windward flap is always made the 
external one, and in this way a sheltered valvular doorway, perfectly pro- 
tected against wind or snow, is provided. Should the wind change to the 
opposite direction, the flaps are readily reversed. If additional tent-space 
is desired, both flaps can "be brought together, buttoned at the edges and 
stretched tightly by a peg and guy rope at the corners; the capacity of 
the wall tent being increased nearly one-half by this method. This pat- 
tern of tent was proposed by the writer during the winter of 1899- 
1900. Its advantages as to warmth and shelter, as compared with the 
present tent, are obvious. For more permanent habitations, heavy log- 
houses, well chinked, will be found comfortable; or tight frame struc- 
tures made with double or triple walls and enclosing dead-air spaces, 
built on the principle of the cold-storage buildings already described, will 
be in every way satisfactory. The doors and window-spaces should not 
be too large, and for very cold climates the latter should be provided with 
triple sashes. The action of great cold has a direct effect upon ventilation 
by causing troops tightly to seal up their quarters ; the foul air thus engen- 
dered undoubtedly playing an important part in the genesis of scurvy as 
well as other diseases. Hence every care should be given to the provision 
of a suitable means of ventilation ; but this is a difficult matter and one to be 
accomplished only with the loss of a considerable amount of heat. It may 
be here remarked, however, that it is neither necessary nor desirable to raise 
the temperature of habitations too high in climates of this character. One 
not exceeding 55 F. is perfectly compatible with health and comfort and 
at the same time the inconvenient condensation of body moisture, produced 
in greater quantity at higher temperatures, is largely avoided. This con- 
densation of moisture is a matter of such importance under these conditions 
that it is reported of the Arctic voyage of the exploring ship Alert that the 
covered spaces under the bunks became filled with ice from the body-moist- 
ure of the occupants before the condition was discovered ; while the amount 
of frozen moisture removed from the well, through which air made its escape 
from the cabin of the ship, amounted to as much as a bushel in the twenty- 
four hours. 



922 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

For bedding in the field, in the far north, nothing is better than the 
sleeping-bag. This is usually of canvas, lined with one or more thick- 
nesses of felt or furs, and is not only warm in any weather but wind 
and moisture-proof. While the use of sleeping-bags is probably not prac- 
ticable in the case of large bodies of men, they should always be provided 
for small expeditious. Weight for weight, they afford much better pro- 
tection than do blankets. Where regular sleeping-bags are not available, 
substitutes may be extemporized from blankets by the method described in 
a previous chapter. 

The disposal of excreta and refuse is a simple matter in cold climates, 
since odor and putrefactive processes are promptly destroyed, and when 
cleansing is necessary the frozen mass is readily removed. Latrines should 
1 >e sufficiently warm to prevent undue exposure of the person to extremely 
low temperatures when obeying the calls of nature. In Arctic expedi- 
tions, the warm snow-hut or tent, occupied during the previous night for 
sleeping purposes, is ordinarily used in the morning as a latrine before the 
abandonment of the camp site on resuming the march. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

THE HYGIENE OF THE TROOP-SHIP. 

THE transport service of the United States army is not the result of 
long experience and careful forethought, but has been a sudden creation 
due to immediate necessity. As. a consequence, no vessel has been built 
for the special purpose of transporting troops; but such steam-ships as 
could be acquired by the Government through emergency purchase, during 
and subsequent to the war with Spain, were more of less hastily remod- 
eled to suit varying, and supposedly temporary, conditions. The trans- 
port Thomas, accommodating 1,653 men, may be regarded as a fair type of 
the larger and better class of troop-ships ; but in general these vessels are 
so dissimilar in tonnage, build and equipment that any attempt at their de- 
scription as a class is manifestly impossible. Still, there are many general 
conditions affecting the health of troops on board ship, irrespective of the 
special structural details of the latter, and these it is the purpose of the 
present chapter briefly to discuss. 

Perhaps the most important sanitary problem on board ship is to get 
fresh air in, while keeping water out. The simplest devices for the accom- 
plishment of the former end are wind-sails and cowls, in which use is made 
of the natural movements of air. These, while valuable, give only imperfect 
results, and hence should be looked upon merely as accessories to more 
precise means of ventilation. They have the defect of delivering the most 
air when least needed, require considerable attention, often allow the en- 
trance of water during wet weather, and, by the cold drafts which they 
may cause, are frequently looked upon as sources of annoyance by those 
whom they are intended to benefit. For this reason, whenever used, they 
should be frequently inspected to see that they are in working order and are 
not plugged or tied up by the men. These forms of apparatus will now be 
rarely required for the ventilation of troop-quarters except in emergency, 
and find their chief field of usefulness, on transports, in renewing the air of 
holds and other dead spaces not used for living purposes. Air-ports assist 
materially in securing ventilation, but cannot always be kept open on ac- 
count of rough and stormy weather. They should be provided with 
pivoted side-lights, by which the air can be forced in or directed out- 
ward while the vessel is in motion. They should invariably be kept open 
except when this is attended with actual risk, and their control, in quarters, 
should be delegated to non-commissioned officers. Hatch-ways, also, 
should be kept open during fair weather, but should be screened with 
gratings for protection against accident. In some ships used for commer- 
cial purposes, ventilation is carried on by passing the air from the hold and 
bilge through the furnace and thus producing an aspiratory effect. In cer- 
tain British troop-ships, ventilation is secured by an upward draft created 



924 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

by steam-jets, as already mentioned, but this system is objectionable on ac- 
count of the noise, the waste of steam and the condensation of water in the 
air-shaft. 

The rotary-fan system is the most efficient and practicable method of 
accomplishing ventilation on board ship. In this system, the fan revolves 
in a metal tube, having numerous branches ; air being aspirated from the 
outside and driven through suitable flues to the various parts of the vessel, 
while a reversal of the fan converts the inlet into a discharge -pipe. With 
aspiration of the confined air, a fresh supply finds its way into the ship 
through wind-sails, ventilating-shafts, hatch-ways and ports, entering the 
apartments by doors, crevices or other natural openings. It is of course 
necessary that such fans should have fresh-air connections and not merely 
put in motion air already in the compartment. The system of ventilation 
used on our transports consists in forcing in fresh air, but this is undoubt- 
edly inferior to a simultaneous use of the supply and exhaust systems. 
By either method alone, there is a strong tendency to draw in or expel air 
through the hatch-way or ventilating opening nearest the fans without 
renewing the atmosphere in the more distant parts of the ship. The fact 
should not be overlooked, in the ventilation of ships, that the diffusive 
power of air is small when compared with its tendency to move along the 
line of least resistance. The amount of air going in and that going out 
of a space is by no means indicative of the thoroughness of the general 
circulation. 

Each important compartment should have its own ventilating system, 
for the movement of air is much impeded by bends in the distributing 
channels. As with barracks, care should be taken that inlet shafts are 
short and are changed in direction at such an angle as to present the least 
resistance through friction. The ventilating fans should, of course, be cal- 
culated as to number, power and size, according to the amount of fresh air 
which the maximum number of occupants will require. The outlets and 
their exhausts should be adapted to the inlets and the supply of air which 
they admit, and both should be proportioned to the number of persons 
destroying the air of the apartment to be ventilated. Among other desid- 
erata in all mechanical appliances for this object, they should be automatic, 
and should also work without noise and without creating perceptible drafts. 
Their use should necessitate no long shafts or chimneys, which, if carried 
away by a wave or the wind, would leave openings by which the sea might 
gain entrance. To avoid drafts, all outlets into quarters should be covered 
with fine wire-gauze and should present an open space twice the area of 
the air-shaft. 

Effective ventilation demands that every possible obstruction to the 
circulation and diffusion of air be removed, and hence chests, lockers, 
racks and other bulky articles should not be allowed in quarters. The 
thwart-ship bulkheads should be as few as possible, and under all circum- 
stances should be perforated, latticed or louvred at top and bottom. On 
this account, it would be of advantage if a single compartment, running 
the whole length of the vessel, could be provided for the quarters of the 
men. Passages about the ship should be as straight as possible to avoid 
impeding the movement of air; which must be able to move freely fore and 
aft and also from side to side, else the ventilation of the lee side of the 



THE HYGIENE OF THE TROOP-SHIP. 



925 




926 THEOBY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 




THE HYGIENE OF THE TROOP-SHIP. 927 

vessel will suffer. Stores, baggage and articles composing the cargo, should 
be so disposed as to leave passage-ways around and between them. Pan- 
tries and store-rooms are too often located without regard to convenience, 
ventilation, cleanliness and light. Such rooms, together with the galleys, 
are almost always a source of disagreeable odors and should be specially 
ventilated by the exhaust system. 

To allow proper cubic space to each soldier is usually impossible on 
board ship. In the merchant marine, the average air-space available per 
man is rarely more than 125 cubic feet and frequently may be as low as 
60; the British maritime laws prescribing 72 cubic feet as a minimum. 
Every effort should be made, however, to allow at least 200 cubic feet per 
capita. With this space, supplemented by efficient ventilation and careful 
police, it is probable that no serious trouble may be apprehended as a result 
of over-crowding during an ordinary voyage. 

When a troop-ship is at anchor, especially in hot climates, a spring 
should be put on the cable so that the broad side of the vessel, with its 
numerous portholes and other apertures, may be turned to the wind and 
thus permit of ventilation by perflation. In the British service, on some 
stations, this procedure is officially prescribed for ships of war. The anchor- 
age in malarial ports, or those in which disease is epidemic, should be made 
to windward and at least one mile distant from possible sources of infection. 
The vicinity of marshes, sewers, festering mud-flats and the mouths of foul 
tidal rivers, discharging the debris resulting from human occupation along 
their banks, should be avoided. 

The problem of heating, so difficult of solution on sailing vessels, is 
readily settled on steam-ships by the use of steam-coils. The system 
should be so planned that a certain portion can be shut off without inter- 
fering with another part or with the whole. To reduce the heating of 
the ship by the solar rays while in tropical waters, the coloring of the 
external surface should be white or light yellow. Lighting is, of course, 
best accomplished by the use of incandescent electric bulbs, these giving 
ample light without danger of conflagration, the production of any great 
amount of heat or vitiation of an already confined atmosphere. 

The universal experience of medical officers is that a damp ship is an 
unhealthy ship. Dryness is essential Tryon stating that of two ships 
cruising together, the sick-rate of the one with the most water between 
decks is invariably the higher. Nothing is more undesirable than too 
frequent and indiscreet use of water on the decks, especially those upon 
which troops must sleep; yet this is the usual routine practice resulting 
from mistaken ideas of cleanliness. Sea-air normally contains a large pro- 
portion of moisture which on board ship is unavoidably increased by 
bodily exhalations hence any further and unnecessary increase of humid- 
ity by artificial means should be avoided. All decks should lie coated 
with shellac or with linoleum, cemented in place to prevent absorption 
<>f moisture. The lower decks should never be wetted except for a brief 
cleaning, and then only on very dry days and not oftener than once a 
week. Even open-air decks should be washed only on sunny days and 
never except when really necessary. The minimum amount of water 
should always be used for this purpose ; its lavish use in cleaning decks 
generally implying an inefficient police. Where unclean work must be 



performed, a subsequent washing may usually be rendered unnecessary by 
sanding the decks or by the use of tarpaulins. In the British transport 
service, it is recommended that the decks be sprinkled with clean sand and 
sawdust when troops put to sea, to receive the discharges from sea-sickness. 
This is removed on the following day and more laid down ; the process 
l>e ing repeated until the men have become habituated to the motion of the 
ship. The troop-decks can be readily kept clean subsequently by sprink- 
ling with hot sand, holystoning and dry rubbing. It is officially prescribed 
that wet swabbing should be employed only when required by local patches 
of tilth. All movable articles which require washing should be wetted and 
dried only in the open air. 

The change from wood to iron, in the construction of ships, has in- 
creased the disadvantages due to the condensation of atmospheric moisture, 
with resulting dampness. This fault may be overcome in part by lining 
the ship with wood; but this material soon becomes dirty and ill-smell- 
ing and harbors vermin. Cork-paint, an excellent non-conductor, is now 
much used as a coating for all metal work, and greatly diminishes conden- 
sation. Not only the walls but the ceilings should be overlaid with this 
material. It should be put on firm, smooth sheets ; since when rough it 
is a constant source of minor injuries through the roll of the ship, and is 
also retentive of dust. 

Particularly is it of importance that the hold be kept dry. One great 
cause of dampness on board ship consists in taking on supplies in wet 
weather, and, unless absolutely imperative, the coal and cargo should be 
loaded only on fair days. Before being placed in the hold, all barrels apt 
to leak should be whitewashed, as a ready means of discovering leakage 
should it subsequently occur. An efficient system of ventilation is of 
great value in drying the ship and diminishing humidity. All drainage 
naturally tends through gravitation to the bilge or lowest part of the ship, 
where it forms the highly offensive liquid known as bilge-water. This 
fluid is a mixture of sea-water which finds entrance through defects in the 
hull or is deliberately admitted for purposes of cleanliness, of coal-dust 
and ashes, of oil from the machinery, of fresh water spilled from the tanks 
and of oozings from barrels of wet provisions. Dissolved in this. liquid is 
a considerable amount of organic de'bris, which, on decomposing, emits foul 
odors. The exhalations from the bilge are thus much more offensive and 
dangerous than the ground-air of a house to which it is compared by 
Blyth. It is, in fact, more like sewer-air. The perpetual motion of the 
ship, although of assistance for purposes of ventilation, only tends to in- 
crease the evolution of gases from below by the constant agitation of the 
bilge-water. To avoid this production of gases, the bilge-space should 
drain into depressions which can be readily evacuated by pumping. Mac- 
donald recommends that the bilge-floors on either side of the keelsoji should 
be made perfectly smooth, and be cemented, lacquered or tiled, with suffi- 
cient incline from both ends of the vessel to the well. The liquid which 
gravitates to these points should be frequently removed and replaced by 
fresh sea-water. After the lapse of about an hour, this in turn should be 
discharged, and the proceeding repeated until the fluid brought up is en- 
tirely free from odor. On concluding the operation, the bilge should be 
pumped entirely dry. Great care in keeping the ship dry and clean will 



THE HYGIENE OF THE TROOP-SHIP. 929 

minimize the production and offensiveness of bilge-water. The use of anti- 
septics and deodorants, notwithstanding their efficacy in preventing foul 
smells and the evolution of noxious gases, should never be relied on to the 
exclusion of the frequent and complete removal overboard of the bilge - 
water itself. 

The best location of quarters for troops is where the motion is least, 
which is abaft the midship section of the vessel ; and there should never 
be more than two decks, preferably only one, occupied by the berths of 
soldiers. As to floor-space, twenty square feet per capita should be al- 
lowed as a minimum, and not more than two tiers of hammocks or bunks 
should be permitted. Where bunks are used, the lower tier should be 
raised not less than eighteen inches above the deck ; with not less than three 
feet between the two tiers, and between the upper tier and the ceiling, so as 
to enable the occupants to sit upright. All bunks should be arranged so 
as to leavea passage-way at least thirty inches wide between each other 
and the side of the ship, to facilitate cleansing, allow ready communication 
and ventilation and prevent chilling from condensed moisture or cold. The 
bunks themselves should have a frame-work of light iron tubing, painted 
white or light gray, which should be readily removable and supported on 
stout iron stanchions. In dimensions, the bunks should not be less than 
six feet three inches by two feet. Woven-wire mattresses are liable to rust, 
and are unfitted for use on upper bunks since they allow dirt and dust to 
fall through on to the bunk below. Canvas strips, stretched between the 
bed-frames, are cleanly, comfortable, occupy little space and are readily 
removed and handled. These should be washed after every trip and more 
frequently if necessary. Shuck or straw mattresses are totally unsuited 
for use on board transports and soon become soiled and offensive. Vermin, 
if found to be present, should be relentlessly pursued. A high standard 
of cleanliness should be enforced, since on steam-vessels the facilities 
available for maintaining cleanliness are exceptionally great and no reason- 
able excuse can be offered for an inefficient police. All bunks should be 
made up neatly at reveille, rolling back the upper blanket to expose the 
interior, after which the troops should be sent on deck. The men should 
not be allowed to sleep on deck after sunset, from the danger of chilling. 

On board ship, on account of the necessarily confined quarters, personal 
cleanliness is of the utmost importance, and the men should be required to 
bathe the entire person daily. For this purpose the shower-bath, as now 
provided on most transports, is unequalled. In its absence, a place on the 
spar-deck should be set aside, where the men can strip behind canvas screens 
and be doused with salt water from the deck-hose. Swimming, when 
practicable, is to be encouraged under proper precautions. Special soap, 
suited for use with salt water, should be issued gratis to troops on embark- 
ation. Abundant lavatory facilities should be provided. 

All clothing should be kept clean and dry. For this purpose, each 
troop-ship should be provided with a steam-laundry and drying-room of 
sufficient size. Where such facilities are not furnished, two days a week 
should be set aside in which the men should be required to wash their own 
clothing by such less convenient means as may be available. When the 
weather permits, blankets should be exposed to the sun and air at least once 
weekly. On the conclusion of each trip, all bedding as mattresses, pillows 
59 



930 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 



and blankets should be taken on deck and sunned for at least an entire 

day. The clothing worn by the men should be sufficient and adapted to 
the climate. The woolen shirt should never be discarded even in tropical 
seas, for ships are drafty and currents of air are always chilling. All 
spare clothing and accoutrements should be kept in places assigned to 
them, and not be allowed to encumber the bunks or occupy space in a 
sleeping-compartment. 

In our naval service, the official allowance of fresh water is one gallon 
daily per capita. In the merchant marine, the law provides that each 
passenger and sailor is to be supplied with three quarts of water daily. In 
the British transport service, the minimum daily allowance of water is six 
pints out of the tropics and one gallon in the tropics. On troop-ships, how- 
ever, the amount of water allowed for all cooking and drinking purposes 
should scarcely be limited ; and this can readily be accomplished by means 
of the distilling apparatus with which they are nearly all provided. The 
distilling apparatus of the transport Thomas is capable of providing fifteen 
thousand gallons of fresh water in each twenty-four hours. For distilling 
purposes, only clean sea-water should be employed. Under no circum- 
stances should the water of a filthy harbor be taken on board with a view 
to its distillation for drinking purposes. Should it be necessary to embark 
troops on vessels not equipped with means of providing an abundance of 
fresh water from time to time as required, the quantity stored in the tanks 
should be sufficient to afford at least one and one-half gallons to each man 
and eight gallons to each horse as a daily allowance throughout the voyage. 

Water is usually stored in tanks having an individual capacity of five 
hundred or more gallons. Those on the Thomas have a total capacity of two 
hundred and thirty -five thousand gallons. Where the supply is distilled 
while w route, these tanks should be relatively small and more numerous, to 
prevent the possibility of contamination of a large amount of water through 
temporary fault in the condensing apparatus. Wooden tanks should never 
be employed except in case of emergency, since the alternate wetting and 
drying of the wood, with deficient ventilation, is apt to render the contained 
water unfit for consumption. Iron tanks, painted without and cemented 
within, are economical and sanitary receptacles. It would be of advantage 
if they could be lined, as are bath-tubs and water-closet fixtures, with the 
so-called porcelain. All tanks should be furnished with large man-holes for 
securing cleanliness, and thorough scrubbing and rinsing, after emptying, 
should be carried out as a matter of routine after each voyage. If possible, 
the man-hole should be so placed that natural light finds its way to every 
part of the tank when the cover is removed. Where water is distilled, the 
operation should be done at sufficiently long intervals to ensure palatability 
and ae'ration. The latter is usually left to be accomplished by the rolling 
of the ship ; but it may be readily brought about by the use of charcoal fil- 
ters, by letting the water fall from a height in a state of fine subdivision, 
or by allowing it to trickle over well-washed pebbles, exposed to a current 
of air. The fluid in the tanks from which the supply for drinking purposes 
is immediately drawn should be cooled by pipes passing from the cold- 
storage room on the way to the ice-machine. It is scarcely necessary to 
say that suspected water should not be used ; or if this be unavoidable that 
it should be boiled before issue to the men. 



THE HYGIENE OF THE TROOP-SHIP. 931 

With the general adoption of artificial refrigeration, the question of 
food on board ship, formerly a most serious problem, is now satisfactorily 
solved. With an abundant supply of fresh meat and vegetables, scurvy is 
no longer to be feared. The diet should be in no wise different from the 
ration of the soldier performing light duty in garrison, unless it be made 
slightly more laxative by the addition of more vegetables to overcome the 
natural tendency to constipation due to deficient exercise. At the outset of 
the voyage, to limit the amount of sea-sickness, the issue of fats should be 
discouraged. Where mess-rooms are not provided, all food should be eaten 
on deck when the weather permits, and under no circumstances should rem- 
nants of food or soiled eating utensils be allowed to remain in a compart- 
ment used as quarters. It is well to require all portions of the ship to be 
swept after each meal, and thus at once remove the crumbs and other 
refuse food which is often unavoidably scattered on the decks and flooring. 
Before being disembarked, troops should be served with a hot meal, to limit 
the discomfort which might result from temporary absence of a food supply 
on shore or lack of preparation for their arrival. 

The disposal of excreta is not the serious matter on board transports 
that it is in military communities on shore, since all waste has only 
to be discharged overboard as quickly as possible; and abundance of 
water, for purposes of cleanliness, is always available. Hence latrines 
need never become offensive, or possible sources of disease, if given a 
moderate amount of care. The best form of latrine for troop-ships consists 
of a broad, shallow trough, having a continuous and ample flow of salt water 
pumped up by the engines. Seats should be provided in the proportion 
of at least five to each^mndred men. They should be made in individual 
sections, and should be so weighted as to tip up when not in use thus allow- 
ing the trough to be used for the reception of urine or vomitus without the 
liability of soiling the seats. The latter should be scrubbed daily with 
soap and water. All latrines should be wholly disconnected from any 
sleeping compartment or quarters ; the flooring should be impermeable, the 
surface being finished with a good fall outward. All soil-pipes should dis- 
charge at a proper distance below the deck and preferably out of sight. As 
far as possible, latrines should be in the after-part of the vessel, so that the 
discharges may shoot over or through the counter at the stern and odors 
may not pass over the ship when heading into the wind. Ventilation of 
the latrine-space should be thorough, and an exhaust fan will assist greatly 
in removing all odors. When lying in dock for any length of time, it is ad- 
visable, if such plan be possible, to close all latrines and require the men 
to seek accommodation on shore at convenient points previously designated. 
When moored in a closed slip, this precaution is of great importance in the 
preventiqn of serious nuisance, since under such circumstances the excreta 
may accumulate in large quantity and float alongside the ship for a consid- 
erable period. All rubbish and garbage are disposed of, when at sea, by 
being thrown overboard. While at dock, all refuse of this character should 
either be sent on shore for disposal or should be burned in the furnaces. 

The hospital of the troop-ship should preferably be located on the up- 
per deck and be well aft. The latter is a point of less motion, is not so 
liable to be flooded in case of storm and is the quietest part of the ship. 
For infectious cases, this location furnishes tl^ best facilities for isolation ; 



932 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

while the air from the hospital, rendered dangerous by the emanations from 
such cases, escapes directly astern without blowing over an inhabited part 
of the vessel. In the navy, provision is made for a sick rate of five per 
cent., but for troop-ships this proportion should probably be increased by 
one-half. As to the amount of floor-space for hospitals, no rule can be 
given unless that it be to make the superficies as great as possible. 

Before accepting for the transport service a ship owned by private parties, 
it is desirable that information be obtained as to its medical history. Some 
ships are less healthful than others, which are said by sailors to be in this 
respect "unlucky." A ship which has recently had cholera, yellow fever, 
scarlet fever or diphtheria on board should on no account be accepted. 
It is stated that ordinary steam-ships can be fitted out as transports in about 
n week for the transportation of infantry and in ten days to two weeks- 
for mounted troops. 

In the movement by sea of large organized units, the amount of net 
tonnage required may be estimated as follows : For very short voyages, if 
not more than a day's duration, one and one-half tons net per man and 
two and one-half tons net per horse. For voyages not exceeding a week, 
two tons net per man and six tons net per horse. For long voyages to> 
any part of the world two and one-half tons net per man and seven tons- 
net per horse. These estimates include space for one month's forage and 
provisions for voyages under a week, and for three months' provision for 
voyages longer than a week in duration. Where a large amount of trans- 
port vehicles and animals are embarked, an increase of ten per cent, may 
sometimes be required. To reduce gross tonnage to net tonnage it is, cus- 
tomary in the British service to multiply the formgr by the factor .65 in 
the case of merchant steamers, and .6 for ordinary troop-ships. The 
number of officers a ship can carry generally corresponds with the number 
of first-class passengers for which accommodations are provided. 

Troops under orders of embarkation should be inspected by a medical 
officer to determine the fitness of each man for service. This examination 
should be made in sufficient time so that the places of such as are inca- 
pacitated for service may be filled by others. In this connection, Wolseley 
has well written : " To send a weakly man on active service is cruel to the 
individual, retards operations, renders them difficult, requires larger hospi- 
tal and medical establishments, and the result is, if not actual failure, at 
least decreased efficiency and greatly increased cost." No cases of conta- 
gious or infectious disease should be received on board, with the exception 
of mild cases of venereal infection. Pregnant women within three months 
of confinement should not be given passage on a transport. 

On the embarkation of troops, the routine issue of a laxative, preferably 
in the form of a mercurial, will be of advantage in the prevention of sea- 
sickness. Large doses of the bromides of sodium or potassium may.be ad- 
ministered for the same purpose ; but these should naturally be given only 
in individual and selected cases. The diet immediately previous to depart- 
ure, and during the first few days of the voyage, should be light, digestible 
and not of a greasy nature. Before sailing, three or four men should be de- 
tailed from each company such as are understood not to be subject to sea- 
sickness being selected and these should be kept alternately on duty as a 
sanitary police, day and nigty, until convalescence from this affection has. 



THE HYGIENE OF THE TROOP-SHIP. 933 

been generally established. The sea-sick who vomit or discharge urine or 
excreta on their bunks or in quarters should be removed to the fresh air, and 
all discharges and tilth at once cleared away. Such cases should be com- 
pelled to remain on deck, being allowed their mattresses and blankets if too 
ill to sit up. Compulsory exercise between two men, and compulsory feed- 
ing with hot soup or coffee, will often aid recovery in more protracted cases. 
The use of bilge-keels does much to diminish rolling and the consequent 
liability to sea-sickness as a result of such motion. 

Weather permitting, the men should be required to remain on deck 
throughout the day ; and for their better protection, in hot or rainy weather, 
awnings should be spread fore and aft. Seats should be provided, and lying 
down on wet decks prohibited. Several hours' exercise daily, in the form 
of drills, setting-up exercise and marching around the decks, should be re- 
quired and to assist in preventing ennui and vary the exercise, a small 
detail may perhaps be made daily to assist in working or cleaning the ship 
outside the quarters of the men themselves. The transport should be 
speedy, to bring the journey to a close as soon as possible for discontent 
and nostalgia operate, during long voyages, to a greater degree upon the 
soldier than the sailor. As in camp, music and diversion of all kinds are 
of the greatest value. Target-practice at floating bottles or a mark towed 
behind the ship is a pastime at once interesting and valuable from a mili- 
tary standpoint. 

The conditions prevailing on board transports must be considered, at 
best, as being somewhat unfavorable to health. Fortunately, the time 
consumed by troops in changing station by sea can rarely be great under 
modern conditions, and the period through which such injurious influ- 
ences act is usually brought to a close before the effects of the latter are 
markedly apparent. 



CHAPTER XX. 

THE DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD. 

PROPER disposition of the bodies of dead is demanded as well by senti- 
ment as by the interests of public health. In the military establishment, 
the disposal of the dead without prejudice to the interests of the living 
may become a sanitary problem of the greatest importance; requiring, 
under certain circumstances, the adoption of unusual measures to ensure 
its proper solution. 

From th% standpoint of the sanitarian, the ideal method of disposition 
is through modern processes of cremation, as exemplified by the Siemen's 
crematory, since the destruction of dead bodies, rapidly, completely and 
inoffensively, is insured by this method. Unfortunately, however, crema- 
tion is so rarely performed among civilized and Christian nations that, as a 
means for the disposal of the dead in the military service, under ordinary 
circumstances, it does not at present warrant serious consideration. 

Interment. The location of burial-grounds should be determined only 
after most careful sanitary investigation and full determination of the pres- 
ent and probable requirements of the military community. The surface- 
configuration and character of the soil, facilities for drainage, trend of 
ground-water, proximity to water-courses and distance from habitations are 
all considerations of importance. A cemetery-site should never be higher 
than the foundations of neighboring habitations, but should be sufficiently 
elevated to afford good drainage. Low ground, liable to be flooded or in 
which the ground- water is apt to rise, should be avoided ; since excess of 
moisture greatly retards the processes of disintegration. The nature of the 
soil has a great influence on the decomposition of the dead body, and a clay 
soil or hard or stony ground is undesirable for this reason. Saponification 
of the cadaver, in the production of adipocere, is liable to occur after burial 
in moist clay as a result of a deficient supply of oxygen. Loose, loamy 
soil should preferably be selected, since the free movement of ground-air 
and ground-water is thus permitted, both being essential factors in the pro- 
motion of rapid dissolution. A site requiring subsoil drainage can scarcely 
be considered as fit for use for general burial purposes. The trend of the 
ground-water should not be from the cemetery toward any wells which are 
sources of water-supply, nor should the drainage be such that the contami- 
nation of such surface-waters as are used for domestic purposes becomes 
possible. The site should not be too heavily wooded, but, on the contrary, 
it should not be devoid of large growth. A strong covering of turf with a 
sparse growth of trees and shrubbery will, through their roots, have an 
excellent effect in the absorption and utilization of the products of decom- 
position. Under ordinary conditions, a vacant space of five hundred feet 
between a large cemetery and surrounding habitations is not an excessive 
requirement. 



THE DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD. 935 

The rapidity of dissolution of dead bodies depends largely upon the 
chemical or other methods taken for their preservation, the nature of the 
soil, the presence of ground-air and the condition of the ground-water. 
The use of strong outer casings or of metallic caskets, together with the 
embalming of the remains, is objectionable from a sanitary standpoint as 
retarding decomposition and thus, without proper reason or justification, 
preventing an early return to the elements. In temperate climates, under 
favorable conditions, the process may ordinarily be completed in three or 
four years; but, on the other hand, even without chemical preservation 
and the use of metallic caskets, the disintegration of bodies under unfavor- 
able conditions may be very slow thirty or forty years being consumed 
in the process. Deep burial should always be required, and bodies should 
not be interred at a less distance than five feet from each other. Single 
graves should always have a depth of five or more feet in order properly to 
retain the odors of decomposition, and at least four feet of earth should 
always cover their contents. 

Bodies of those who have died from contagious disease should not re- 
ceive a public funeral, and are to be buried or otherwise disposed of as soon 
as possible after the fact of death is established. In all instances, interment 
should occur with the least possible delay ; since action to the contrary can- 
not but be detrimental to the general health. In this connection, it should 
be noted that ceremonials expressive of honor and respect, bestowed upon 
the soldier dead, exert a powerful influence in raising the morale of the 
military community. 

Embalming. The procedure of embalming is objectionable from a 
sanitary standpoint, in that it exerts a very great effect in preventing 
decomposition of thi dead body and its speedy resolution into innocuous 
elementary compounds. Through sentimental and aesthetic reasons, how- 
ever, this procefis has become so popularized as to be desired by friends or 
relatives in nearly every instance where death has occurred. During the 
Civil War, the troops in the field were for a time accompanied by a Horde 
of professional embalmers, who advertised their trade in the purlieus of 
every camp with an unfortunate effect upon recruits until finally their 
presence was forbidden by military orders. Embalming, at the present 
time, has received a quasi-recognition in the military service of the United 
States through recent action attaching a civilian embalmer to each army 
transport to prevent the necessity for burial at set. 

To the medical officer, often dependent upon his own resources in an 
isolated station, the subject of embalming, aside from its sanitary aspect, 
is possessed of practical interest ; inasmuch as in the absence of those upon 
whom such duty properly devolves, he may be requested to prepare the 
dead for transportation to some distant point for burial. While engaged 
in active hostilities, it is evident that this process can rarely be carried out ; 
but even at such a time the preservation of the remains of some officer of 
high rank and public character may of necessity become the care of the 
medical department. 

The solutions used by embalmers are largely secret proprietary 
preparations, most of which contain about 10 per cent, of commercial 
formalin, 5 per cent, of chloride of zinc, and arsenite of soda and alum in 
saturated solution. A 1-500 solution of mercuric chloride, with chloride 



936 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

of zinc in 5 per cent, strength, is said to give good results in preserving 
and blanching the tissues. By the use of too strong a solution of formalin, 
the body is stiffened so rapidly as seriously to interfere with the work of the 
einbalmer. Non-poisonous substances, such as salicylic and boric acids, have 
been tried, but these have not given satisfactory results. In general, the 
best time for the operation of embalming is about four hours after death ; 
but it may satisfactorily be performed at any time prior to the establishment 
of putrefaction. When the blood is disorganized, as in sunstroke or septic 
poisoning, it should be performed as soon as the fact of death is well estab- 
lished. The instruments required are a stout scalpel, a set of large aspirat- 
ing trocars, a set of short hollow needles for arterial injection and a strong 
double-action aspirating pump. For the injection, an artery is bared, either 
the femoral or brachial, a hollow needle is inserted, pointing toward the 
heart, and the embalming fluid is slowly passed in, stopping when a sense of 
resistance is felt or if the face shows signs of becoming oedematous. About 
fifteen minutes is usually required for this process, and about three quarts 
of fluid, in the case of an adult, are used. Following the injection, a long 
trocar is plunged obliquely upward through the abdominal wall, at a point 
two inches above and to the left of the navel, piercing the pericardial sac and 
entering the cavities of the heart. The aspirating pump is then connected 
with the trocar and the blood slowly drawn off; usually amounting to about 
two quarts and requiring slow aspiration during about ten minutes. This 
operation is continued until the appearance of clearer fluid shows that the 
greater portion of the blood has been removed. The trocar is then par- 
tially withdrawn and directed downward, perforating the intestines and 
permitting the escape of any gas or dropsical fluid. The bladder is also 
punctured and the urine withdrawn through the trocar, about two quarts 
of embalming fluid being returned through the instrument into the abdomi- 
nal cavity. The rectum is well packed with pledgets of wet absorbent 
cotton, and, in cases of somewhat advanced putrefaction, a rubber catheter 
is passed through the nose and a pint or more of embalming solution al- 
lowed to gravitate into the oesophagus and stomach. 

In case a post-mortem section of the body has been performed, injec- 
tions of embalming fluid are made in both carotid arteries, in the direction 
away from the heart. The viscera are removed, the abdominal cavity is 
packed with absorbent cotton soaked in embalming fluid, the cut in the 
abdominal wall stitched up and a considerable quantity of the preservative 
thrown into the oesophagus. 

To preserve a natural appearance to the face for a considerable length 
of time, small papier-mache*, card-board or tin disks are inserted under the 
eyelids, several layers of cloth, wet in equal parts of alcohol and glycerin, 
are placed over the face and neck and the whole is wrapped in oiled silk. 
Ecchymoses may be removed by sponging with warm water, accompanied 
by gentle massage of the discolored parts. 

Transportation of the Dead. The transportation of bodies of per- 
sons dead of smallpox, Asiatic cholera, yellow fever, typhus fever or bu- 
bonic plague should, under all conditions, be absolutely prohibited. 

The remains of such individuals as have died from diphtheria, scarlet 
fever, glanders, anthrax, erysipelas, typhoid fever or other dangerous com- 
municable disease, should not be permitted to undergo transportation unless 



THE DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD. 937 

disinfected by arterial and cavity injection with some strongly gennicidal em- 
balming fluid, followed by thorough washing of the entire body with a solu- 
tion of mercuric chloride, 1-1,000 strength. After being thus disinfected, 
the body should be enveloped in a layer of raw cotton not less than one inch 
thick, lie completely wrapped in a sterilized sheet and the whole snugly band- 
aged in place. Shipment of a cadaver so prepared should be carried out in an 
air-tight metallic casket, all joints and seams of which have been hermeti- 
cally sealed. The caskets now in use for this purpose, in the army of the 
United States, are constructed of copper and have a removable front held in 
place by numerous stout thumb-screws. At this single joint there are, on both 
the shell and front, thick rims of soft rubber coming together in the form 
of a tongue and groove ; this arrangement, when compressed by the action 
of the thumb-screws, renders the casket air-tight. As an additional precau- 
tion, it is customary to coat both rims heavily with white lead prior to the 
final application of the casket front. This metallic shell is then placed in 
a coffin, and the whole packed, with the aid of excelsior, in a stout wooden 
box. This outer box is constructed of one and one-half inch clear pine 
lumber and is reinforced by two strong five-inch pleats on top and bottom ; 
the ends of the box, for further security, being bound with hoop-iron. 

Every disinterred body, dead from whatever cause, should be treated as 
infectious and hence as dangerous to the public health. Bodies deposited 
in receiving vaults should be considered as the same as those which have 
been buried and the precautions outlined above should be in all cases re- 
quired. 

The remains of such pergons as have died from causes not contagious, 
infectious or communicable in character, may be safely transported without 
special preparation, in a temperate climate, if encased in a sound coffin or 
casket and enclosed in a strong outside wooden box ; provided they can 
reach their destination within thirty-six hours after the time of death. If 
the arrival of such a body at its destination within this period cannot be as- 
sured, it should be treated as if infectious in character and prepared in the 
way already described. 

Sanitation of the Field of Battle. The responsibility for the 
sanitation of the field of battle devolves upon the conqueror, even if the 
victory be promptly followed by pursuit. This sanitary work should be 
under military control, but may often be largely performed by the inhabi- 
tants of the surrounding country, impressed for this service, who naturally 
are most directly interested in the result to be obtained. They should be 
assisted by such prisoners of war and soldiers on fatigue duty as may be 
available. If necessary, special organizations should be detailed to assist 
in the proper accomplishment of the task. 

Inhumation. The sepulture of those killed in action must of neces- 
sity be accomplished on the field of battle, and only in rare instances or 
after slight engagements can bodies receive special care or be given ship- 
ment to the rear for interment. Prompt inhumation of the slain, both men 
and animals, is necessary if the scene of conflict is not to become a possible 
starting-point for pestilence the rapidity of the action required depending 
largely upon the season and climate. Burial after battle is often improperly 
carried out on account of the lack of time available and the desire to secure 
the disposal of the greatest number of cadavers in the least period ; hence 



938 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

the history of warfare, and particularly of sieges, is full of instances where 
the occurrence of epidemics has apparently been largely favored by the in- 
sufficient attention given to the disposal of the dead. Much of the sickness 
in the French camp during the Crimean War was attributed to this cause, 
Truser stating that the " corpses of our friends have become greater enemies 
than the Russians ; barely covered with earth they emit a pestilential miasm 
which kills better than powder and shot." The thirty thousand corpses 
hastily interred near Metz were undoubtedly a strong factor in the produc- 
tion of disease among the German troops, forced to remain in the vicinity, 
and it was observed in both the instances above noted that the organiza- 
tions encamped nearest the field of battle were the ones most ravaged by 
sickness. 

It is impossible to carry out separate burial after an action resulting in 
any great number of fatalities, but where the dead are few in number they 
should preferably be buried in individual graves. Officers can generally 
be interred separately. It frequently happens that, at the request of fam- 
ilies or friends of the deceased, permission for the exhumation and removal 
of the remains is subsequently granted, provided such action be compatible 
with public safety. 

In campaign, after a battle, it is rarely possible to transport the dead 
to any great distance, and hence they are usually interred near where they 
have fallen. Should an entrenched force be driven from their line of re- 
sistance, the captured trenches will often prove available for this purpose ; 
but if these trenches are to be re-occupied, the dead should not be buried 
in their vicinity nor in the neighborhood of a camp, hospital or collection 
of human habitations. The rules governing the selection of a cemetery 
site are also operative in the location of the graves of the dead after battle. 

Where a large number of cadavers are to be buried in a single trench, 
the latter should have a width of seven feet, a depth of ten feet and a 
length proportionate to the number to receive interment. Branches of 
trees may be thrown into the bottom of the trench to facilitate drainage. 
The dead should be completely stripped of their clothing prior to being 
placed in the grave, since the parts covered by garments resist putrefactive 
processes to a much greater degree. The bodies are placed in layers, in 
the recumbent position, but should not approach nearer than three feet to 
the surface of the ground. After filling in the grave, the excess of earth 
should be piled over its site better to retain the odors of decomposition, 
mark its location and protect against animals. The mound should, if pos- 
sible, be sodded, and such vegetation as possesses great power for using 
nitrogen and has long roots, as clover, should be sowed or planted. 

Where single bodies have lain undiscovered after an action until putre- 
faction was far advanced, it is sometimes preferable not to attempt to move 
the body for burial but to heap a krge amount of fresh earth over the 
corpse itself. 

When properly inhumed, the decomposition of the dead progresses 
rapidly, and the products of putrefaction are eagerly seized upon and util- 
ized by vegetable life. Should hastily buried cadavers become offensive, 
the superimposed earth may be removed and the bodies burned by the 
method subsequently described; or they may remain undisturbed and a 
large amount of fresh earth heaped over the burial place. 



THE DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD. 939 

Interment in quicklime hastens destruction, but sufficient quantities of 
lime for this purpose are rarely attainable on the field of battle. During 
the siege of Paris it was directed that the dead within the walls should be 
buried in this manner, and during the Prussian occupation of Chalons 
numbers of the victims of infectious disease were covered with this substance 
upon burial. Where bodies are interred in a general grave, the several 
layers should, if possible, be separated by four or five inches of quicklime. 
Powdered charcoal may also be used to retain odors. 

To prevent the possibility of mistakes, it is desirable that a medical 
officer should be present with the burial-party in order to make certain of 
the death of the individuals to be interred. Before burial, the identity of 
the soldier, should, if possible, be established, and, wherever practicable, the 
interment of the individual should be accompanied by the burial on the 
person of some token by which recognition can be made in case subsequent 
exhumation is desired. An excellent method for the attainment of this 
object consists in sealing up a paper, containing the necessary data, in a 
clean glass bottle and interring the same with the body to which it refers. 
The clothing of the dead, after examination to determine the identity of the 
wearer and to secure any valuables for return to the family or friends, should 
be destroyed by fire. 

The same principles apply to the disposition of dead animals as do 
with regard to human dead, except that the burial-trenches are necessarily 
made larger and deeper, and that, with an Abundance of fuel, their crema- 
tion is preferable. As already noted, certain portions of the flesh of re- 
cently killed horses or mules may often be excellently utilized for food 
prior to their burial or destruction by fire. 

Cremation. In the military service, destruction by fire has often 
been employed after battle or during sieges when interment of the dead 
was impossible. During the siege of Troy, the partial cremation of the 
slain Achseans was advocated by Nestor, so that their bones might be re- 
turned to their native country and there given sepulture. Among the 
Athenians the bodies of such soldiers as fell in battle were collected in 
tents, to ensure their recognition, and after several days each family or 
clan conveyed its dead, in cypress coffins, to the ceramicos or place of 
common burning. Numerous dead Moors were burned by Ferdinand the 
Catholic; while during the wars between the English and French the 
latter led by Joan d'Arc the dead were on one occasion heaped up outside 
the city of Paris and consumed on a single huge funeral pyre. After the 
capture of Taragonne by the French, in 1811, 4,000 cadavers were burned 
in the public squares of the town. For this purpose, according to Dufour, 
pyres were erected, composed at the base of beams, planks and large tim- 
bers, upon which was placed a large amount of dry brush, fagots and 
kindling-wood. Upon this foundation was disposed a layer of bodies, care 
being taken that they did not exactly touch, a second layer of brush was 
superimposed and an additional layer each of bodies and brush completed 
the preparations. Such a pyre is said to have cremated three hundred to 
four hundred bodies without difficulty. In 1812, during the retreat of 
Napoleon's army from Moscow, the Russians habitually destroyed by fire 
the bodies of the French dead, as well as those of the animals which had 
perished along the roadside. In 1814, after the battle of Paris, the Ger- 



940 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

mans are said by Viry to have burned some four thousand dead bodies dur- 
ing a period of two weeks ; the method employed being to place them over 
a hot fire upon an iron frame supported by stone pillars. In 1815, at 
Waterloo, several thousand of the skin were cremated on piles of resinous 
wood. v 

During our own Civil War, it was not found necessary to resort to cre- 
mation of the dead ; but on several occasions during the Franco-Prussian 
War the operation was successfully accomplished on a vast scale. At 
Sedan, the improperly buried dead were bared of earth, the upper layer 
of bodies was covered with coal-tar, straw and brush-wood, and the whole 
ignited. So great was the heat produced and so rapid was the combustion, 
that, according to Guillery, in less than an hour the contents of the 
burial-trenches had shrunk to one-fourth in bulk. For the incineration 
of each two hundred and fifty to three hundred bodies, only five or six 
barrels of tar were required. The residue consisted merely of calcined 
bones, and the earth in the vicinity of the burial trenches was thoroughly 
dried and disinfected. The operation was completed by covering the re- 
siduum with quicklime. During the Turco-Servian .War, the Servians 
frequently cremated the fallen; while the English, in India, have often 
disposed of the dead by funeral pyres. During the French campaign in 
Dahomey, in 1892, General Dodds is said to have made a practice of de- 
stroying by fire the remains of all those killed in battle ; and cremation of 
the dead, with full military honors, was practiced by the Japanese with 
excellent results in the Chino- Japanese War in 1897. In 1898, after the 
capture of Santiago from the Spaniards, a large number of bodies found 
unburied on the occupancy of the city were disposed of by fire. The pyre 
was constructed of large timbers intermixed with small pieces of wood and 
hay. The bodies were placed on the pyre and thickly covered with hay 
and brush; the whole being saturated with petroleum before ignition. 
Eighty-seven bodies were burned in one pyre, and the results were in 
every way satisfactory. In the subsequent sanitary regeneration of the 
city, all dead animals were burned with the combustible rubbish after 
the mass had been saturated with petroleum. 

The destruction by fire of large numbers of the dead, as was carried out 
by the ancients, is extremely difficult of proper execution, and incomplete 
cremation must exert an unfortunate effect upon such persons as witness 
the operation. If the cremation be improperly or incompletely performed, 
there is no doubt but that the spectacles presented may be of a ghastly 
nature and repugnant to modern ideas ; but these objections cannot apply 
if the operation is properly executed. The carcasses of Ijorses and mules, 
often killed in large numbers, should be collected and burned after a battle 
their destruction by fire often being a serious sanitary problem from the 
amount of fuel required. 

For purposes of cremation, the use of coal-tar is excellent, since it is 
well understood that the combustion of resinous and empyreumatic sub- 
stances, combined with animal fats, produce a heat of great intensity. 
Crude petroleum, rosin, turpentine or similar inflammable substance should 
be freely employed in connection with the use of coal-tar. The pyres 
should have a solid foundation of large timbers, upon which is placed a 
large amount of small pieces of dry wood or fagots. The operation of ere- 



THE DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD. 941 

mation, under such circumstances, will naturally be accompanied by the 
production of a thick, sooty smoke having a strong, unpleasant odor. 

According to Laveran, the general rules to govern the sanitation of the 
battlefield are : Careful burial of human bodies. Burning of horses and 
debris by the use of coal-tar. Cremation by the use of coal-tar of such 
dead as were improperly buried. In forts or besieged towns to use the ex- 
isting crematories for the destruction of the dead, or to practice burial in 
quicklime. 

Public sentiment is strongly in favor of burial as a means of disposition 
for the bodies of those killed in battle, although destruction by fire is fully 
as honorable a method for their disposal. Cremation of the dead, however, 
will be required for the protection of the interests of the living in all in- 
stances where proper interment cannot, for any reason, be accomplished. 

Portable Crematories. The portable crematory car invented by 
Kuborn and Jacques is fitted with removable flanges on the wheels so that 
it can be readily drawn by rail as well as hauled over ordinary roads. It 
consists of a large iron chamber with a double floor sloping toward the cen- 
ter, upon which the bodies to be cremated are placed each floor accom- 
modating three cadavers. Under the floors are located two furnaces, a 
series of dampers on the sides admitting the necessary air for combustion. 
The floors are heated by the furnaces, the grease and oils running down into 
the central pipe and then into one fire, where they are consumed, while the 
gases disengaged in the process of cremation and the fumes from the first 
fire are deodorized by being passed through the second fire and are ulti- 
mately discharged through the chimney of the apparatus. Only six bodies 
can be burned in this crematory every one and one-half hours, and hence 
the number necessary to meet the needs of a bloody conflict would be very 
great. After the battle of Metz, according to Viry, the services of no less 
than one hundred and fifty such crematory wagons would have been required. 
With regard to the employment of such apparatus during campaign, it is 
evident that limited capacity renders their use impracticable even if it 
were desirable ; further, their very presence would have a dispiriting effect 
upon young and newly raised troops. The only use of such portable crema- 
tories, if any, would be in connection with a besieging army or during 
epidemics. 



CHAPTER XXI. 

SANITARY INSPECTIONS IN THE MILITARY ESTABLISH- 

MENT. 

IT is through the reports of sanitary inspectors that superior authority 
habitually learns of the existence of evils previously unknown but requir- 
ing remedy, as well as the truth concerning unsanitary conditions reported 
through other channels, and is thus able promptly to correct or minimize 
the faults for the continuance of which it would otherwise have been held 
responsible. 

The Medical Department, under the direction of the Secretary of War, 
is charged with the duty of investigating the sanitary conditions of the 
army and making recommendations in reference thereto. It is prescribed 
in army regulations that : " The surgeon, under the direction of the com- 
manding officer, will supervise the hygiene of the post or command and 
recommend such measures as he may consider necessary to prevent or di- 
mmish disease. He will examine at least once a month, and note in the 
medical history of the post, the sanitary condition of all public buildings, 
the drainage, the sewerage, amount and quality of the water-supply, the 
clothing and habits of the men, and character and cooking of the food, and 
immediately after such examination will report thereon in writing to the 
commanding officer with such recommendations as he may deem proper. 
The commanding officer will return the report with his views and action 
endorsed thereon, and if he deem the action impracticable or undesirable 
will state fully his objections. The endorsement will be recorded in the 
medical history of the post, and the report and endorsement will be for- 
warded by the surgeon, through military channels, to the surgeon-general." 
Under the authority given by the above regulation, the recommendations of 
the medical officer acting as sanitary inspector are not, as some commanding 
officers would have it, merely unwarranted criticism of their administration 
by military inferiors and as such to be disregarded or resented. In the 
work of the medical officer, his duties as sanitary inspector are specifically 
kid down as being of the first importance and are officially given prece- 
dence over such purely professional obligations as the care of the sick and 
wounded. Hence in the proper performance of this duty, the sanitary offi- 
cer may be assured of the constant support of higher authority, wholly 
irrespective of any attitude which may be assumed by the occasional super- 
sensitive individual who sees in every effort to promote the general welfare 
a reflection upon his own efficiency. 

In the United States service, the system of sanitary inspections was 
instituted in 1862, when a sanitary expert was detailed in each army corps 
and required to visit and report upon the health and condition of every regi- 
mental camp in the command. Extracts from his reports were sent to the 
officers concerned. The greatest good resulting from these inspections ap- 



SANITARY INSPECTIONS. 943 

peared to be the official approval and support by the inspector of the efforts 
and recommendations of the regimental medical officers. This plan was 
discontinued after the Civil War, and the medical officers returned to their 
antebellum status, as defined by regulations. From that time until 1874, 
no provision was made for sanitary inspections, although the medical officer 
accompanied the regimental or post commander on his monthly rounds in 
order to give his professional advice if it were desired. Any initiative on 
his part was not, however, countenanced. In the year mentioned, however, 
a general order was published which changed the status of the medical offi- 
cer from that of the physician to that of sanitary adviser, and gave the final 
action on his recommendations to higher authority than the post or regi- 
mental commander directly concerned. 

In some armies, a distinct corps of officers, permanently appointed, per- 
form the special work of sanitary inspection, but in our service it is the 
practice temporarily to detail those whose special qualifications determine 
their suitability for such duty. That the former plan conduces to greater 
efficiency cannot be doubted ; on the principle that, in any class of work, 
the amateur, as a general rule, is necessarily inferior to the professional 
It is especially provided in our army that sanitary inspections of large 
camps " should be ma'de by senior medical officers, brigade surgeons and, 
in special cases, by chief surgeons." The senior medical officer with a 
regiment or detached command of course inspects within the limits of his 
own jurisdiction. The experiment has recently been tried of placing the 
responsibility for the hygienic condition of a camp upon a regimental sani- 
tary board composed of the senior medical officer and a major of the line 
fairly good results having been obtained under this system. Unfortu- 
nately, however, the line officer is prone to find his sanitary functions less 
interesting than purely military duties and this cannot fail largely to im- 
pair the value of his services. 

The duties of sanitary inspectors require the performance of frequent 
tours of observation through the command to which they are attached. 
Usually these are periodical; but special visits, when and where required, 
are made according to varying needs. In general, complete sanitary in- 
spections of all camps, posts or hospitals should be made weekly to ensure 
that instructions as to sanitary improvements 'are carried out company 
commanders being required by regulations to make daily inspections of 
their company quarters and kitchens. The greatest disadvantage in this, 
an otherwise excellent system, is that policing and inspections are liable 
soon to become synonymous in the mind of the soldier, to the exclusion of 
the object for which both functions were instituted. Hence the effort is 
often made to show clean on the surface irrespective of the condition be- 
neath ; the result being scarcely to be considered desirable from the stand- 
point of hygiene. 

Thoroughly efficient sanitary inspections can be made only by those 
fitted for the work through special knowledge and education or long ex- 
perience and, since much of their duties relate to diseases, their causes, 
modes of propagation and means of suppression, a medical training becomes 
an essential qualification. For the military service, intelligent sanitary in- 
spection rests upon a knowledge of the following subjects : 
* 1. Thorough familiarity with army regulations and existing orders, with 



944 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

the conditions normally prevailing in the military service, the special needs 
of troops, the means available by which desired changes may be brought 
about and the special characteristics of the soldier all determined by x 
competent knowledge based on ample personal experience with troops serv- 
ing under varying conditions. 

2. Natural philosophy, embracing the principles of pneumatics, hydrau- 
lics and hydrostatics, with especial reference to ventilation, water-supply, 
drainage, construction of habitations and sanitary engineering in general. 
The laws of natural philosophy will be of great aid in tracing nuisances, 
determining the sufficiency of ventilation and in studying atmospheric 
changes. 

3. The principles of chemistry, particularly with regard to the methods 
of analysis; and microscopy, including the elements of bacteriology. Such 
knowledge is indispensable in the formation of accurate judgment as to 
impurities of air and water, injurious impregnation of the soil, adulteration 
of food, the accurate diagnosis of disease, and the efficient use of disin- 
fectants. 

4. The sanitary construction of barracks, quarters and hospitals; in- 
cluding knowledge of soil, structure, material, heating, lighting, ventila- 
tion, water-supply, house and soil drainage. 

5. The immediate and remote effects of over-crowding, vitiated air, 
impure water, bad or insufficient food, the character of nuisances injurious 
to health, the disposal of excreta and refuse, and the effects of soil, season 
and climate upon the health of localities. 

6. Knowledge of the causes, methods of propagation and best methods 
of prevention of infectious diseases. 

7. A sufficient knowledge of the civil laws of the vicinity relating to 
public health. 

In addition to his familiarity with the above subjects, the skilled sani- 
tary officer should be of methodical and industrious habits, competent in 
observation, impartial in judgment and conscientious in action. He should 
be fertile in resource and economical of time and labor. Thoroughly cog- 
nizant of the responsibilities of his position with reference to the preser- 
vation of the health and efficiency of the command, he will be quick to 
appreciate impending disaster as well as energetic in its avoidance or dimi- 
nution. Not the least in importance, he should possess that rare tact and 
uniform courtesy so necessary to prevent opposition to his efforts with 
consequent impairment of his usefulness on the part of those upon whose 
administration he may be called upon to comment adversely. 

The official relations between the inspector and the officers of whose 
troops he has the sanitary oversight, naturally vary with the authority 
possessed by the former. In times past, it has been thought best by those 
in control of the military establishment for the sanitary inspector to exer- 
cise no actual authority, making his position purely advisory. TMs plan 
may answer sufficiently in garrison under conditions of peace; but in 
active service in the field, or in time of epidemic, it is imperative that the 
sanitary inspector be clothed with full executive powers in his own de- 
partment, to enable him to accomplish the prompt abatement of unsanitary 
conditions without the routine delay which unavoidably follows the official 
reference of the matter to higher authority. The discriminating inspector 



SANITARY INSPECTIONS. 946 

possessed of such authority will rarely find it necessary to utilize his pre- 
rogative in this respect; a simple suggestion, backed by the knowledge on 
the part of others of his ability to enforce any needed changes, amply suf- 
ficing in nearly all cases to accomplish the desired results. Where further 
action is necessary, the sanitary officer should write the necessary orders 
in triplicate, by the authority of the commander of whose staff he forms a 
part ; one copy being given to the officer concerned, one being forwarded 
to the adjutant-general or regimental adjutant interested, and the third 
being retained for file. In this way, the desired result would be obtained 
and the sanitary officer would be held responsible for any misuse of author- 
ity by the commander in whose name the order was issued. It is under- 
stood that a plan somewhat of this character has recently been tried, in 
connection with the large recruit and volunteer camps in the Department 
of California, with excellent results, and it is to be hoped that it may be 
given a wider application in the future. There should certainly be some 
way by which line officers, temporarily in authority over a camp or post, 
should not be permitted to ignore, belittle or overrule the sanitary recom- 
mendations of medical officers, who are qualified by experience and study 
to render expert judgment in matters to which line officers have naturally 
paid little attention, concerning which they are comparatively ill informed 
and upon which they are, from their technical training, unfitted to ex- 
press a decisive opinion. It is true that in many cases where the in- 
spector, even if possessing no actual powers, informs local commanders 
of the existence of an evil and confers with them concerning its abate- 
ment, it will usually be found that faults in the power of subordinates 
to remedy will be cured without recourse to superior authority. The 
exceptions to this are sufficiently numerous, however, and the results of 
such sanitary derelictions are so serious not only to the command di- 
rectly concerned but to other organizations in the vicinity that it would 
seem that, in the field at least, the sanitary officer should have delegated 
power to direct the carrying out of such emergency measures as appear to 
be in the interests of the public safety. On the other hand, the preser- 
vation of health in the military establishment must not be considered as 
objective with sanitary officers alone. Too much is expected of them in 
this respect and too little is done by line officers in co-operation with 
them; armies, like individuals, must act in concert with their medical 
advisers if they would maintain their health. 

In the absence of any action upon recommendations which have been 
previously made by him, the sanitary officer should consider it his im- 
perative duty repeatedly to urge, at proper intervals, such sanitary improve- 
ments as may be indicated for the conscientious discharge of his obli- 
gation to those whose physical well-being is entrusted to his care, as well 
as to escape the measure of blame which would otherwise attach to him 
as a result of an epidemic outbreak of disease depending upon unsanitary 
conditions. It has been officially decided that repeated recommendations 
with regard to needed sanitary improvement do not constitute a criticism 
of the administration of the officer in command, but evince a proper per- 
formance of duty on the part of the inspector. 

While it is obviously undesirable to enumerate the great number of 
conditions which should come under the observation of the sanitary in- 
60 



946 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE. 

spector, a brief summary of the salient points may be of value ; bearing in 
mind that not only such matters as are obviously those of sanitation but 
also every irregularity or abuse, every violation of law, orders or regulations 
concerning the general health and welfare of troops should receive his 
attention. Hence men, manners, mind, diet, dress and discipline all fall 
legitimately within the province of the sanitary inspector. 

With reference to the healthfulness of a site or locality, the following 
points should receive consideration : Height above sea-level and elevation 
of hills above the plain. Angle of declivity of hills ; rektive proportion 
of hill and plain ; number, course and character of valleys and ravines ; 
dip of strata and geological formation; water-sheds, marshes and water- 
courses ; exposure to winds and their prevalence and character ; sunlight, 
its amount and duration; amount of rain and frequency of dust. The 
relation of the site to adjoining land ; the height and fluctuation of the 
ground-water ; the nature and condition of soil, whether wet, dry or made 
ground. The vegetable and animal products, their nature and amount 
and their adaptability to furnishing supplies for troops. All defects of 
position, ditching and drainage ; and, with camps, the frequency with which 
the site has been changed and the probable degree of soil-pollution. 

Careful attention should be given to the sufficiency, suitability, condi- 
tion and cleanliness of all buildings or tentage, and to the clear space 
existing between them. The buildings in use as barracks, hospitals, guard- 
houses, married soldiers' and officers' quarters ; as regards position, exposure, 
the materials of which they are built, their structure, means of drainage 
and ventilation. The material and character of roofing; the number, 
length, breadth and height of rooms; the number of men they are capable 
of containing according to accepted sanitary standards and the number 
actually quartered in them ; the floor-space and cubic air-space afforded 
each man. The number of blind spaces not directly connected with the 
external air; the number and position of windows, transoms and doors; 
the sufficiency of window-space and its freedom from obstruction. The 
dryness or dampness of rooms ; the character and sufficiency of ventilation ; 
the si/e of fresh-air inlets, their cleanliness and freedom from obstruction ; 
as to the opening of these inlets above or below the surface of the ground 
and their proper protection ; the suitability of the points at which fresh air 
is discharged within the building. The sufficiency as to the number and 
surface of ventilating outlets; their efficiency, proper repair and intelligent 
control. The size and depth of the cellar ; the character of its walls and 
flooring and its condition as to dampness. The use to which it is put, the 
sufficiency and means of its ventilation, and the amount and character of 
any refuse present. The character of ventilation under the building. The 
dimensions of outbuildings, the purposes for which they are used and their 
relation to barracks or quarters. The provision for artificial lighting; its 
sufficiency and suitability. The methods of heating ; as by furnace/stoves, 
steam or hot air. The presence of coal-gas ; the nature and amount of 
fuel; the provision and ready adjustment of dampers; the existence of 
suitable air-shafts to furnaces. 

In the inspection of plumbing, it should be noted whether this is hid- 
den or exposed and the duration of time in which it has been in position ; 
the character and sufficiency of bath-room and lavatory facilities ; the suf- 



SANITARY INSPECTIONS. 947 

flciency, tightness and cleanliness of waste-pipes; the presence of any 
offensive odors and the condition of woodwork near the fixtures. The 
number, style, sufficiency and cleanliness of urinals and water-closets; the 
material, size, trapping, ventilation and angle of connection of soil-pipes. 
The condition of drains, whether exposed or underground, the material of 
which made and whether clogged or leaky ; the angle of junction with 
sewers, and whether provided with an intercepting trap to prevent ingress 
of sewer air. The material of which sinks are made, their suitable trap- 
ping and their use only for proper purposes. Cesspools, whether tight or 
leaky, full or clean, tightly covered or well ventilated. 

Concerning the water-supply, it should be noted whether it is supplied 
from rivers, lakes or springs, wells or cisterns, and whether delivered by 
wagons or pipes. If the latter, the head of water by day and night. Ite 
sufficiency for cooking, bathing and laundry purposes ; its quality, as de- 
termined by examination and analysis, and what means for its purification 
are in use, if such be necessary ; its possible sources of contamination with 
reference to their correction. 

The nature and composition of the ration ; whether sufficient, properly 
constituted, of good Quality and what facilities are available at the station 
for its proper variation ; its preparation, cooking and method of serving. 
Whether the ration is economically administered ; the size of the company 
funds and how they are expended. The amount of savings from the flour 
ration and the quality of bread. The proportion of canned or preserved 
meats or vegetables used. The character and quality of the fresh meat 
supplied; whether killed in the vicinity or supplied from cold storage. 
The nature and qualities of fruits and vegetables employed and their effects 
upon health. Kitchen and cooking utensils; whether maintained in a 
cleanly condition and sufficient for variety in cooking; the condition of 
the dining-room or mess-tent. Whether unrestricted vending by hucksters 
is permitted. The character of diets used in hospital, their variation, and 
the manner in which the per diem allowance for each patient is expended. 
The character of supplies available for this purpose. 

Whether the clothing issued for the use of troops is sufficient, of good 
quality and adapted to the climate ; and, if not, what improvement might 
be made in this respect. The character of the shoes and head-gear. 

The nature of the bedding; its sufficiency, general condition and fre- 
quency of airing ; the improvisation of beds in camp or whether troops are 
required to sleep on the ground. 

The facilities for personal cleanliness available ; baths and lavatories, 
their condition and sufficiency. The cleanliness of the troops and the fre- 
quency with which baths are required to be taken. The frequent changing 
and laundrying of garments and bed-linen ; the presence of vermin. 

General police ; cleanliness within and without habitations ; soil con- 
tamination, the character and amount of visible filth or refuse, the exist- 
ence of nuisances. The condition of all dumping-grounds, manure heaps, 
stables and outbuildings. The camps and surroundings of civilian em- 
ployees; the location of the picket-lines for public animals. Methods 
employed for the disposal of refuse ; by burial, removal or burning. The 
disposition of excreta ; in earth- or water-closets, by buckets, troughs, pits 
or cremation. The sanitary state of water-closets ; how efficiently flushed. 



948 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MILITARY HYGIENE, 

Condition of latrines; if protected against rain and observation; whether 
deep or shallow ; amount of contents. The frequency with which fresh 
earth is applied and how often disinfection is practiced. The manner and 
probable efficiency of the methods directed toward their disinfection. 
Garbage ; its storage, method of removal and manner of disposal. The dis- 
position of kitchen and slop waters. 

The habits, methods of exercise and amusements of the men in their 
relation to health. The prevalence of venereal disease, its causes and the 
best methods for its diminution or control. The amount of alcoholics used 
by troops and their effect upon health ; the amount of alcoholism and how 
it may be diminished. The measures in vogue for the decrease of intem- 
perance. The suitability of buildings used as canteens; the quality of 
provisions sold in them and the amount of liquors dispensed. Whether 
they are conducted according to the spirit of regulations, and concerning 
the efficiency of their management. The direct or indirect influence of 
canteens upon intemperance, disease and crime. The existence of reading- 
rooms and libraries. 

The character of the recruits received and whether due care is employed 
in their selection. The discipline of the command ; the existence of dis- 
content and desertion among the men, and the causes leading thereto. 
The nature and amount of duty required and its influence on health ; the 
amount of fatigue required in warm climates. The frequency of drills and 
marches, how long they continue and at what hours they occur. The pro- 
portion of nights in bed to those on duty. 

Climate in its effect upon the health of troops. The nature, causes, 
preventability and means of control of diseases occurring most commonly. 
The relative value of each class of causes inducing disease in troops ; the 
degree to which new arrivals have suffered and the proportion of accli- 
mated troops affected. The prevalence of epidemics and their special sea- 
sons. The existence of epidemic disease among the civil population of the 
vicinity or of the country into which an expedition is to be made ; the 
prevalence of disease in any organizations in excess of the average, and 
the probable causes therefor. The existing and average proportion of sick, 
the arrangements for their care and the disposition made of them. The 
state of vaccination and the extent to which it has furnished a protection 
against smallpox; the efficiency of the virus employed. The accuracy of 
diagnosis in cases of yellow fever, smallpox, cholera and plague ; the nature 
of their surroundings, the probable extent to which the disease may have 
been communicated through the command by the sick, the plan of isolation 
adopted, the methods of disinfection employed and their probable efficiency. 

Regarding the medical officers, hospital corps men and female nurses, 
the inspector should observe their number with regiments or hospitals, their 
sufficiency, presence or absence, reason of absence and prospect of return ; 
their activity, competence and attention to duty. The support given* medi- 
cal officers by the combatant force . in the efforts of the former to improve 
unsanitary conditions. 

In conclusion, it may be emphasized that while it is the function of the 
medical officer professionally to treat such cases of disease as may arise, it 
is his greater duty, as guardian of the public health in the military ser- 
vice, to prevent by watchful foresight, so far as is consistent with the prog- 
ress of human knowledge, their outbreak and their increase. 



ABANDONMENT, in the prophylaxis of in- 
fectious disease, 788 
Abattoirs, military, 198 
Abdomen, protection of the, in the tropics, 

894 
Abdominal bandage, the, 308 

use of the, in the tropics, 894 
Acetate of aluminum, use of, in water- 
proofing clothing, 300 
Acetylene, apparatus for generating, 527 

use of, as an illuminant, 526 
Acclimation, definition of, 860 

possibility of, in the Jtropics, 862 
test of, in the tropics, 861 
Actinomycosis, in beef cattle, 209 
Admission-rate to hospital, causes affecting 

the, 645 

Aeration, ventilation by, 467 
Age, as influencing sickness and mortality, 

626 
determination of, in beef-cattle. 197 

in recruits, 10, 11 
influence of, on occurrence of acute 

rheumatism, 759 
on occurrence of bronchitis, 756 
on occurrence of diarrho3al dis- 
ease, 708 
on occurrence of malarial fevers, 

718 
on occurrence of typhoid fever, 

689 

on occurrence of tuberculosis, 739 
In relation to development of the re- 
cruit, 8 

maximum, for the recruit, 9, 10 
minimum, for the recruit, 9 
of United States army recruit*, 
relation of, to alcoholism, 810 

to venereal disease, 880 
Aggregation of men, psychological effect 

of the, 844 
Air-brick, Jennings', 474 

change of, in gymnasia, 465 
in squad-rooms, 464, 465 
contamination of, by lights, 452, 529 
by respiration, 450 
by stoves, 504 
cooling of, by evaporation of water, 

898 
Alr-cunvnts, determination of velocity of, 

4s(i 

direction of, in rooms, 487 
loss of rapidity of, from friction, 

459 

rapidity of movement of, in heat- 
extraction shaft. 479 



Air-currents, rapidity of movement of, In 

producing draft, 457 
rates of entering, 458 
Air, diffusion of foul, from rooms, 467 
examination of, 488 
fresh, amount to be supplied hourly, 

458 

hot, heating of buildings by, 508 
influence of organic matters in, on 

health, 456 

Airing of barracks, necessity for, 468 
Air, methods of cooling, in the tropics, 897 
of estimating the renewal of, 485 
moisture in heated, 495 
movement of, in sewers, 549 

into and out of heated buildings, 

478 

on troop-ships, 924 
organic matters in respired, 456 
passage of, through walls, 466 
quantity of, required for combustion, 

496 
rate of movement of, through open 

windows. 467 
respiratory impurity of, noted by 

smell, 486 

sample, method of securing the, 488 
sewer, harm fulness of, 547 
Air-shafts, angles in, as producing fric- 
tion, 459 

dust in, as producing friction, 459 
length of, as producing friction, 

459 
shape of, in relation to friction, 

459 
size of openings of, in relation to 

friction, 459 
Albuminoid ammonia, determination of, 

128 
Alcohol, as part of the ration in foreign 

armies, 290 

danger of using, in the tropics, 908 
influence of, on body -temperature, 812 
Alcoholism, age in relation to, 810 
decrease in rates for, 808 
inefficiency produced by, 812 
influence of, on rates for venereal di*- 

eaae. 880 

of the canteen in reducing. 815 
lessened liabilty of colored troops to, 

810 

prevalence of. among troops. 808 
prevention of. 814 
relation of, to insanity and suicide, 

812 
to military morals. 818 



950 



INDEX. 



Alcoholism, relative value of military sta- 
tistics on, 808 
results of, 811 

value of comparisons in respect to, 811 
Alcohol, issue of, to troops, 813 

relation of, to work, 812 
Allen dense-air refrigerating system, the, 

888 

Alum, use of, in purifying water, 151 
Aluminum, use of, in the mess outlit, 334 
Ammonia, in water, 127 

permissible amount of, in water, 128 
use of, in formaldehyde disinfection, 

795 

Amo?ba coli, in relation to dysentery, 671 
Amusement companies, necessity for, in 

camps, 844 

Amusements of the soldier, the, 843 
Anemometer, the, 486 
Anopheles mosquito, life-history of the, 

707 

Anthrax, in beef -cattle, 208 
" Anti-calcaire," purification of water by, 

153 

Anti -cholera fluid, preparation of, 660 
Anti-diphtheritic serum, preparation of, 

668 

Anti-plague fluid, preparation of, 724 
Antiseptic, definition of an, 766 
Anti-typhoid fluid, preparation of, 695 
Applied gymnastics, 68 
Area of the camp, 346 
Argand gas-burner, the, 525 
Armies, comparison of medical statistics 

of various, 646 

war as affecting the health of, 638 
Army medical statistics, 610 
Arnold sterilizer, the, 770 
Arnott's ventilating valve, 480 
Artesian wells, water from, 106 
Artificial ice, can system of making, 889 
character of water used for, 889 
plate system of making,. 890 
immunity, in infectious disease, 755 
manufacture of ice, 889 
refrigeration, 886 

methods of conveying cold in, 

887 

Aspergillus niger, on fresh bread, 250 
Aspiration, ventilation by, 482 
Athletic sports, value of, 71 
Attention, as an exercise, 60 
Austrian army cap, the, 804 
Average proportions of the recruit, the, 

16, 17 

Avoidance as a means of prevention in 
infectious disease, 752 

BACK-PRESSURE, in traps, 554 
Bacon-bug, characteristics of the, 218 
means of destroying the, 218 
Bacon, care of. 217 

chemical composition of, 217 
Bacterial life, scarcity of, in cold climates 

912 

treatment of sewage, 583 
Bacteria, removal of, from water, 100, 148 

150 
Bacteriological examination of water, 134 



Bake-ovens, improvised field, 178, 179 

portable field, 175 
Bakery-wagons, field, 176 
Baking of meats, 234 
Bandage, abdominal, the, 808 
Band instruments, disinfection of, 804 
Banner's rotating ventilator, 482 
Barber-shops, hygiene of post, 605 
Barney steam-cooker, the, 172 
Barrack-bags, cleanliness of, 422 
British army pavilion, the, 409 
floors, as an agent in infection, 428 
impermeabilization of, 429 
method of construction of, 418 
modified Vauban, the, 407 
Vauban, the, 407 

Barracks, airing of, necessity for the, 468 
air-space underneath, in the tropics, 

896 

amount of fresh air required in, 464 
arrangement for heating and ventilat- 
ing, 472 

arrangement of, 412 
beds in, 423 
care of shelves in; 422 
construction of walls of, 415 
desirability of double walls for, 418 

of storm windows for, 421 
excess of carbon dioxide in, 451 
exposure of, to winds, 404 
for the tropics, British regulations on, 

896 

foundation-walls of, 416 
frame, for field use, 369 
general principles of construction of, 

414 

heating of, 491 

influence of poor, on sick-rates, 409 
inside finish of, 421 
in the tropics, 895 
lighting of, 521 

material for, in the tropics, 895 
method of constructing floors in, 419 
movement of air into and out of 

heated, 478 

necessity for window screens in, 421 
orientation of, in temperate climates, 

404 

in the tropics, 895 
paints used in, 422 
pavilion, advantages of, 410 
plaster finish in, 421 
portable, 870 

the Doecker, 371 
the Ducker, 871 
prevention of dampness in, 418 
special points concerning, in the 

tropics, 896 
United States army, condition of, 410 

modern plans for, 412 
ventilation of, in the tropics, 897 
warmth of, 494 
wood-work in, 418 
Barrack, Toilet's, 409 
Barrack -walls, impermeabilization of, 421 
Barrack windows, 421 
Bath-houses, camp, 601 

post, 597 
Bathing facilities, provision of, 595 



INDEX. 



951 



Bath, quantity of water required for the 

shower, 94, 594 
required for the tub, 94 
Baths and bathing, 591 
shower, 598 

advantages of, 598 
sponge, in the field, 600 
tub, 593 
vapor, 593 

Bath, the, in the military service, 592 
Battle, cremation after, 939 
Battle-field, sanitation of the, 937 
Battle, inhumation after, 937 

methods of burial after, 988 
Bayonet exercise, in physical training, 63 
Beard, care of the, 604 
Beans and peas, 262 

chemical composition of, 263 
cooking of, 264 

Bedbugs, means of destroying, 424 
Bed : sacks, care of, 426 
Beds, for use in the tropics, 902 
improvised in camps, 379 
in barracks, 423 

method of weaving straw mats for, 380 
Bedsteads, the regulation,' 422 
Beef, age of a carcass of, 199 
appearance of good, 199 
canned, chemical composition of, 226 
corned, chemical composition of, 

229 

Beef -cattle, actinomycosis in, 209 
anthrax in, 208 
determination of age of, 196 
determination of condition of, 197 
determination of health of, 197 
determination of weight of, 196 
flesh of, after fevers, 210 
tuberculosis in, 204 
Beef, determination of sex in a carcass of. 

200 

extracts, the, 284 

fresh, chemical composition of, 194 
method of cutting up a, 198 
quality of, 201 

requirements for contract, 194 
salt, chemical composition of, 230 
tapeworm of, the, 203 
vitality of tubercle bacillus in cooked, 

207 

Bell-trap, the, 557 
Belts, use of, by soldiers, 306 
Bent -knee marching, 77 
Berkefeld filter, the, 146 
Beverages, use of, in the tropics, 885 
Bilge, care of the, on troop-ships, 928 
Bilge-water, composition of, 928 
Billeting, as a means of subsisting troops, 

182 
Bissell incinerator, the, 890 

wagon, the, 391 

Bisulphid.- of carbon, as an insecticide, 218 
Bivouac, construction of the, 860 
Bivouacs, in cold climates, 920 
Bivouac, the, 850 
Blackmail wheel, the, 484 
Blanket-bag, the, 327 
Blanket-roll, the, 827 
Blanket, the army, 818 



Blanket, the rubber, 319 

Blisters, care of, by marching troops, 91 

Blouse, the, 805 

Bodies, dead, rapidity of destruction of, 

MS 

Body-lice, destruction of, 606 
Body-temperature, elevation of, in hot cli- 
mates, 854 

Body-weight, loss of, in hot climates, 855 
Boilers, low-pressure water, 515 
Boiling, as a means of disinfection, 769 

of meat, 233 
Boot, the military, 817 
Boric acid, as a meat preservative, 230 

preservatives, effect of, on the 

system, 281 
test for, 231 
Bovril foods, the, 286 
Bowdoin formaldehyde generator, the, 793 
Boyle's ventilating valve, 480 
Branch of service, as affecting health, 622 
Bread, baking of, in the field, 177 
fresh, 245 

changes in, 249 
chemical composition of, 245 
heaviness of, 249 
loss of weight by, 248 
moulds on, 250 
preparation of, 246 
qualities of good, 247 
u stickiness " of, 249 
transportation of, 252 
hard, chemical composition of, 252 
use of, by troops, 253 
weevils in, 258 

Breads, specially prepared field, 282 
Bread, stale, methods of improving, 252 
Breathing exercises, 87 

manner of, in recruits, 87 
Bricks, absorbent powers of, 415 
Broiling, of meat, 234 
Bromine, use of, in purification of water, 

154 
Bronchitis, age in relation to occurrence 

of, 756 

occurrence of, 755 
prevention of, 757 
season in relation to occurrence of, 

756 
Brush shelters, construction of. in camps, 

851 

Buckets, water, care of, in barracks, 428 
Buildings, new, occupancy of, 444 

occupancy of captured, 752 
Bunks, use of, on troop-ships, 929 
Burial, method of, after action, 988 

of bodies dead with contagious dis- 
ease. 935 

of dead animals, 939 
of the dead, in quick-lime, 939 
parties, after battle, 989 
Buzacott cooking outfits, 171 
field ranges, 172 

CACTUS, use of, in clarifying water, 153 
Calandria oryzae, the, in rice. 265 
Calorie, the, 158 
Campaign hat. the, 303 

use of, in the tropics, 894 



952 



INDEX. 



Campaigns, deaths from disease during 

various, 642 
Camp, area of the, 346 

under regulations of 1863, 348 
bath-houses in, 601 
Camp-grounds, use of old, 337 
Carnp, improvisation of beds in, 379 
necessity for cleanliness of the, 401 
plan of field hospital, 346 
of the cavalry, 345 
of the infantry, 344 
of the light artillery, 346 
police, performance of, 400 
Camps, airing of bedding in, 768 
allowance of water in, 95 
cremation of garbage and refuse in, 

395 

floors of habitations in, 375 
grading of, 374 

Camp-site, bacteriology of the, 341 
effect of trees on the, 343 
general requirements of the, 336 
Camp-sites, duration of occupancy of, 375 
Camp-site, soil of the, 338 

soil-temperature of the, 341 
Camp-sites, soil-moisture and ground- 
water of, 339 

Camp-site, surface-drainage of the, 340 
topography of the, 337 
vegetation of the, 343 
Camps, location of animals in, 375 

of latrines in, 346 
monotony of life in, 844 
of instruction, 372 

Camp-space, sanitary care of the, 374 
Camps, piped water-supply in, 112 

removal of earth from habitations in, 

376 

soil contamination in, 402 
use of urine-tubs in, 393 
walks in, 374 

Camp, washing of clothing in, 608 
Canned meat, chemical composition of, 

226 

method of preparing, 227 
use and nutritive value of, 225 
Canteen, influence of the, in increasing 

savings deposits, 819 
in reducing delirium tremens, 816 
in reducing desertions, 817 
in reducing insanity, 817 
in reducing sick rates, 815 
on military morals, 818 
opposition to the, from civil life, 820 
system, the, 815 
the administration of the, 820 
the water, 833 
Cantonments, 352 

space allowed soldiers in, 352 
Caps, fur, for cold climates, 915 
Carbohydrates, as the chief source of car- 
bon, 880 

digestibility of, 157 
proportion of, in the tropical dietary, 

880 

use of, by the organism, 155 
Carbolic acid, disinfectant value of, 777 

precautions in the use of, 777 
and sulphuric acid mixture, 778 



Carbon dioxide, allowance of fresh air 

based on production of, 464 
diffusion of, from rooms, 467 
estimation of respiratory, by sense 

of smell, 486 

excessive proportion of, 451 
excretion of, by respiration, 450 
in prison cells, 451 
Pettenkofer's method of deter- 
mining, 488 

production of, by gas-burners, 453 
production of, in combustion, 452 
ready method of estimating the, 

in air, 490 
when in excess, 451 
ingestion and excretion of, 880 
Care of the feet, 602 

of the hair and beard, 604 
of the latrine, 384 
of the mouth, 603 
of the person, 588 
of the person in the field, 599 
Carts, sanitary, for removal of garbage, 

394 

Casemates, construction of, 431 
influence of, on health, 430 
use of, for water-closets, 562 
Cattle, beef, 194 
Cavalry, plan of camp for, 345 
Cemetery-site, selection of the, 934 
" Centurj r " water-closet, the, 566 
Cerebro-spinal meningitis, cause of, 651 

infection and dissemination of, 

653 

occurrence of, 651 
predisposing causes of, 652 
prophylaxis of, 653 
Cess-pits, care of, 533 

dangers of using, 533 
disposal of excreta in, 533 
use of, in foreign armies, 534 
Cess-pools, disposal of sewage by leaching, 

579 
disposal of sewage by means of, 

578 
removal of contents from tight, 

578 
Characteristics of soundness in recruits, 

19 
Chemical disinfectants, the essentials of 

good, 775 

means of purifying water, 151 
Chest development in the British soldier, 

38 
influence of exercise in developing the, 

37 

measure, increase of, in soldiers, 38 
in relation to height of the recruit, 

15 

minimum, in foreign armies, 15 
of recruits, 14 

method of measuring the, 25 
mobility in the recruit, 16 
Chimneys, barrack, 420 
method of cleaning, 507 
smoky, causes of, 506 
value of, in ventilation, 479 
Chlorine, determination of, in water, 123 
gas, as a disinfectant, 785 



INDEX. 



953 



Chlorine gas, methods of generating, 786 
per cent, of, required for disinfec- 
tion, 786 

Chocolate, nutritive value of, 272 
Cholera, as a water-borne disease, 655 
bacillus, growth of the, in soil, 842 

growth of the, in water, 116 
cause of, 654 
flies as agents in the transmission of, 

656 

Importance of diarrhoea during out- 
breaks of. 657 
manner of infection in, 655 
means of dissemination of, 655 
military history of, 653 
predisposing causes to, 656 
preventive inoculation against, 659 
prophylaxis of, 657 
value of preventive inoculation 

against, 661 

Circulatory diseases, causes of, 764 
influence of climate on, 765 
influence of race on, 764 
Cisterns, disinfection of, 799 

material for construction of, 98 
size of, required, 97 . 
storage of rain-water in, 97 
Civil life, causes of inebriety to be found 

in, 820 
Clark's process for removing hardness 

from water, 152 
soap test, for determining hardness of 

water, 122 

Classification of military diseases, 649 
Clay soils, insalubrity of, 388 
Cleanliness, effect of, on health, 589 
facilities for maintenance of, 588 
necessity for, in camps, 401 

of personal, in the tropics, 907 
of clothing, 606 
of the person in the field, 599 
of troops, 588, 929 
sanitary inspections with reference to, 

947 

swimming as a means of securing, 598 
Climate, Arctic, elements of the, 854 
equatorial, elements of the, 853 
general consideration of, 850 
Influence of elevation of land on, 850 
of the sea in modifying, 851 
of vegetation in modifying, 852 
on circulatory diseases, 765 
on malarial fevers, 710 
on typhoid fever, 687 
in relation to alcoholism, 908 

to venereal disease. 880 
of valleys, 850 
relation of atmospheric moisture to, 

852 

of rainfall to, 851 
of winds to, 851 
Climates, cold, hygiene of, 912 
the physiology of, 918 
hot, hygiene of, 854 

the physiology of, 854 
Climate, soil in relation to, 852 

sub-tropical, elements of the, 858 
temperate, elements of the, 858 
tropical, elements of the, 858 



Clothing, absorption and conduction of 

heat by, 297 

of moisture by military, 298 
character of, for the tropics, 891 
color for military, 295, 892 
cut of military, 298, 892 
disinfection of, 800 
durability a necessity for military, 

892 

for cold climates, 914 
for the tropics, 891 
for use on troop-ships, 929 
grade of military, 293 
laundrying of, in the tropics, 907 
material for military, 293 
methods of waterproofing military, 

299 

permeability of military, 296 
requirements of military, 292 
sanitary inspection of the, 947 
uniformity of military, 292 
washing of, in the field, 608 
Coal-gas, 523 

Argand burner for, 525 
flat burner for, 524 
products of combustion of, 524 
Welsbach burner for, 525 
Wenham burner for, 525 
Coat, the uniform dress, 807 
Cocoa, 290 

Cod-fish, chemical composition of. 238 
Coffee, characteristics of good, 269 
percolator for preparing, 271 
preparation of, 270 
preparations of, for field use, 289 
the use of, 269 
use of, in the tropics, 885 

on the march, 89 

Cold climates, allowance of food for, 916 
bacterial life in, 912 
bivouacs in, 920 
caps for use in, 915 
character of foods for, 917 
clothing for, 914 
condensation of moisture in, 921 
diet of the native of, 916 
habitations in, 921 
heat-producing powers of soldiers 

for, 918 

increase of ration for, 917 
insufficiency of ration in, 916 
necessity for abundant food in. 

916 

overcoats for, 915 
protection of the feet in, 914 
recruits for service in, 918 
tentage for, 920 
the physiology of, 913 
tuberculosis in new arrivals in, 

918 

use of sleeping-bags in, 922 
use of vegetable foods in, 917 
degree of Arctic, 912 

in the northwest, 912 
effects of, on the organism, 912 
methods of conveying, in artificial re- 
frigeration, 888 

Cold-storage, artificial refrigeration in, 890 
preservation of foods by, 891 



954 



INDEX. 



Cold, susceptibility of negro soldiers to, 

913 

of troops to, 917 
weather, guard duty in, 920 
Color, of military clothing, 295, 892 
of upcast ventilating shafts, 480 
Concentrated and preserved foods, 282-290 

chemical composition of, 288 
Condict refrigerating system, the, 887 
Condiments, use of, in the tropics, 869 
Congelation, cataleptic condition in, 919 
lowered vital resistance a factor in, 918 
military instances of, 918 
occurrence of, in the United States 

army, 918 
prevention of, 919 

symptoms preceding death from, 919 
r*onley camp crematory, the, 396 
Construction of sewers, the, 542 
Contagious disease, burial of bodies dead 

from, 985 

Contractors, meat, 193 
Convalescent, disinfection of the person 

of the, 805 

Convalescents, care of, 751 
Cooker, Barney steam, the, 172 
Cooking of the ration, 169 

utensils, disinfection of, 804 
Cork paint, use of, on troop-ships, 928 
Cornice, the ventilating, 475 
Cornmeal, chemical composition of, 265 

use of, 265" 

Corns, treatment of, 603 
Cortland Howe ventilating stove, the, 506 
Cots, folding canvas, 380 
Cotton, as a material for military clothing, 

294 

fabrics, disinfection of, 800 
Cremation, after battle, 939 

means of accomplishing, 940 
military instances of, 939 
Crematories, improvised field, 395 

portable, 941 

Crematory, the Conley camp, 396 
the Smith portable camp, 398 
Crowd-poisoning, instances of, 447 

on the march, 81 

Cubic air-space, deductions made in deter- 
mining, 468 

rules for determining, 462 
space, allowance of, in barracks, 460 
allowance of, in hospitals, 461 
allowance of, in squad-rooms, 460 
allowance of, in United States 

army barracks, 461 
allowance of, on troop-ships, 927 
amount to be provided in bar- 
racks, 458 

amount to be provided in hospi- 
tals, 443 

in barracks in the tropics, 897 
results of insufficiency of, 463 
Culex mosquito, life-history of the, 708 
Cuspidors, care of, in barracks, 427 

use of, in barracks, 427 
Cysticercus bovis, detection of the, 208 
the, 208 

DAMPERS, use of, in stoves, 504 



Dampness, influence of, on rheumatism, 

759 

on troop-ships, 927 
prevention of, in barracks, 416 

in walls, 416 

Dead bodies, as sources of infection, 938 
preparation of, for transportation, 

936 

rapidity of dissolution of, 935 
those not to be transported, 936 
disposal of the, 934 

by interment, 934 
transportation of the, 936 
Death rate, decrease of, during time of 

peace, 629 

relation of, to climate, 850 
rates in civil and military life, 614 
rate, statistical value of the, 645 
Defecation about camps, 393 

the squatting position in, 569 
Defectives among recruits, 2 
De La Vergne refrigerating apparatus, 886 
Delays on the march, 86 
Delirium tremens, reduction in, by the 

canteen, 816 

" Deluge " water-closet, the, 565 
Dengue, 661 

Deodorant, definition of a, 766 
Dermestes lardarius, means of destroying 

the, 218 

Desertions, effect of the canteen in reduc- 
ing, 817 

Desiccated vegetables, 289 
Desiccation, as a means of disinfection, 767 
Diarrhoea and diarrhoeal disease, 662 
causes of, 664 

production of, by drinking-water, 114 
influence of age on frequency of, 664 
infrequency of, in negro soldiers, 663 
prevalence of, in hot weather, 663 
production of, by suspended matter 

in water, 118 
prophylaxis of, 664 

Diazo reaction, the, in typhoid fever, 693 
Dietaries, comparison of, 872 

standard, for temperate climates, 870 
yielded by the ration, 162 
Dietary of besieged British troops, 165 
of Yale and Harvard boat crews, 163 
standards, 163 

difficulty in formulating, 869 
for southern climates, 871 
for the tropics, 872 
the tropical, 869 
tropical, protein in the, 879 
Diet, as modied by temperature, 873 
change of, in the tropics, 876 
monotony of, in foreign armies, 166 
nitrogenous, effect of, in the tropics, 

876 
of the native of cold climates, 916 

of the tropics, 867, 872 
Digestive changes, the, in hot climates, 

860 

Diphtheria bacilli, vitality of, 666 
cause of, 665 

dissemination and infection, 666 
occurrence of, 665 
predisposing causes of, 667 



INDEX. 



955 



Diphtheria, prophylaxis of, 667 

protective inoculation against, 668 

relation of stable manure to occur- 
rence of. 667 

Direct-indirect radiation, 492 
Direct radiation, 492 
Disability, statistical importance of rate 

of discharge for, 645 
Disconnection of sewers, the, 549 
Disease, death rates from, in various cam- 
paigns, 642 

liabilitv to, as influenced by exercise, 
46 ' 

military importance of, 648 

sanitary inspections with reference to, 
948 

slaughter-houses as foci of, 220 
Diseases of the soldier, classification of, 
649 

the infectious, 649 

Disinfectant, bichloride of mercury as a, 
776 

carbolic acid as a, 777 

chlorinated lime as a, 780 

chlorine gas as a, 785 

definition of a, 766 

" electrozone " as a, 781 

ferrous sulphate as a, 782 

lime as a, 778 
Disinfectants, chemical, operation of, 776 

essentials of chemical, 775 

gaseous, 785 

not used in dry -earth closets, 588 

the hypochlorites as, 781 
Disinfectant, sulphur dioxide as a, 787 

sunlight as a, 767 

tricresol as a, 778 

use of formaldehyde as a, 790 

use of superheated steam as a, 771 

white-wash as a, 779 
Disinfecting apparatus, steam, 772 

wagon, steam, 774 

Disinfection, accomplishment of, by des- 
iccation, 767 

boiling as a means of securing, 769 

by shaking, 767 

duties of sanitary officer in regard to, 
BOB 

general consideration of, 766 

incineration as a means of, 768 

of band instruments, 804 

of cisterns, 799 

of clothing, 800 

of cooking utensils, 805 

of cotton fabrics, 800 

of excreta, 802 

of faeces, 808 

of floors, 798 

of horse-troughs, 799 

of latrines, 885, 808 

of leather articles, 804 

of privy-pits, 808 

of rooms, 796 

of soiled bedding, 801 

of sputum, 804 

of stables, 798 

of tentage, 800 

of the pel-son, 805 

of urinals, 575 



Disinfection of walls, 797 
of water-closets, 808 
of wells, 799 
of wood -work, 797 
of woolen fabrics. 801 
precautions for those engaged in, 806 
use of dry heat in, 769 
of moist heat in, 769 
of sprays in, 782 
of streaming steam in, 770 
Disinterred dead bodies, treatment of, 937 
Distillation of drinking-water, 187 
Doors as aids to barrack ventilation, 469 
Draft, atmospheric moisture a cause of 

sensation of, !">? 

Drafts, exposure to, in the tropics, 910 
intolerance of soldiers to, 456 
prevention of, by breaking up air- 
currents, 457 
relation of size of inlet to, 457 

of size of room to, 457 
Drainage and plumbing, 550 

subsoil, influence of, on tuberculosis, 

404 

Drains, cleansing of, 552 
fall of, 551 

general consideration of, 550 
laying of, 551 
trapping of, 551 
Drawers, the regulation, 808 
Drunkard, definition of the, 808 

irresponsibility of the, 808 
Drunkards, classification of military, 807 
Drunkenness, causes of, existing before 

enlistment, 820 

influence of canteen in reducing, 815 
relation of malnutrition to, 808 
Dry-earth system, amount of earth re- 
quired for, 536 

system, arrangements for the, 587 
system, care of the excreta with 

the, 688 
system, disinfectants not to be 

used in the, 588 
system, disposal of excreta by the, 

535 
system, liability to typhoid fever 

with the, 588 
system, necessity for dryness of 

earth in, 535 

system, operation of the, 586 
system, scavenger work required 

by the, 587 

system, value of the, 585 
Dry -heat, use of, in disinfection, 769 
Dryness of clothing, sanitary importance 

of, 767 

D-trap, the, 586 
Dump, the refuse, 895 
Dust, in dissemination of typhoid infec- 
tion. 688 

water required for laying, 96 
Dysentery, amoeba coli in relation to, 672 
caused by water, 114 
causes of, 670 

frequency of, in negro soldiers, 678 
influence of climate on occurrence of, 

672 
method of infection in, 678 



956 



INDEX. 



Dysentery, occurrence of, 669 
Ogata's bacillus of, 672 
predisposing causes of, 672 
prophylaxis of, 674 
remarkable decrease of, in United 
States army, 671 

EARLY diagnosis, importance of, in infec- 
tious disease, 750 
Electricity, as an illuminant, 528 
Electrozone. as a disinfectant, 781 
Embalming, after post-mortem section, 936 
in the military service, 935 
objections to, 935 
the operation of, 935 
Embarkation, inspection of troops prior 

to, 932 

Emergency ration, chemical composition 
of the United States army, 278 
concentration of food in the, 276 
general requirements of the, 275 
of the Austrian army, 281 
of the British army, 280 
of the French army, 280 
of the German army, 281 
of the Italian army, 282 
of the Japanese army, 282 
of the Russian army, 282 
of the Swiss army, 281 
proposed, of the United States 

army, 279 
rations, 275-291 

of foreign armies, 280 
of the United States army, 278 
ration, United States army, use of the, 

279 

use of the, 277 
weight of the, 277 
Encampments, in the tropics, 898 
Ennui, evil results of, 843 
Environment, in relation to vital resist- 
ance, 754 

Ephestia kuehniella, in flour, the, 243 
Equipment, apparatus for carrying the, 

326 

effect of heavy, in producing insola- 
tion, 905 

method of disposing the, 324 
of marching troops, 85 
reduction in weight of the, 322 
the carriage of the, in foreign armies, 

821 
weight of the, in shortening marches, 

322 

of the United States army, 319 
Equitation, as an exercise, 66 
Erbswurst, 286 
Esquimaux, diet of the, 916 
Examination of air, 488 
of the recruit, 18 
of ventilation, 485 

Excavating wagon for trough latrine, 388 
Excreta, bacterial treatment of, 583 
best disinfectants for, 802 
disinfection of, 802 
disposal of, by cess-pits, 533 
by subsoil irrigation, 582 
by the dry -earth system, 535 
by the pail system, 534 



Excreta, disposal of, general considera- 
tions of, 532 

in the tropics, 907 

into cess-pools, 579 

into water, 580 

on sewage farms, 580 

on troop-ships, 931 
Goux system of disposal of, 539 
methods of disposal of, in posts, 532 
Exercise, applied gymnastics as a mili- 
tary, 68 

as affecting body functions, 41 
as influencing the occurrence of dis- 
ease, 46 
division of, 49 
effect of, on the kidneys, 39 
equitation as an, 66 
essential conditions of successful, 55 
exhaustion from, 50 
fencing as an, 63 
general plan of, for the soldier, 54 

results of, in soldiers, 42 
government of, 47 
gymnasium, 67 
influence of, on the chest, 37 

on the heart, 35 

on the nervous system, 35 
in relation to body -weight, 39 

to muscular development, 35 
in the tropics, 902 
manual of arms as an, 60 
methods of developing special parts 

by, 52 

necessity for, in the tropics, 903 
of chest, pernicious form of, 38 
on board troop-ships, 933 
overtraining from physical, 51 
practice marches as an, 64 
running drill as an, 65 
Exercises, the setting-up, 60 
Exhaustion from exercise, 50 

F.CE8, disinfection of, 803 

Falk's arrangement for winter quarters, 

370 

Fans, ventilation by, 483 
Fan, Wing disc, 484 
Fatigue, influence of, on occurrence of 

malaria, 714 
on occurrence of typhoid fever, 

50, 690 

in relation to vital resistance, 754 _ 
Fat, relation of body, to heat conservation, 

856 

Fats, combustion of, in the organism, 878 
digestibility of, 157 
proportion of, in the tropical dietary, 

879 
use of, by the organism, 155 

in the tropical dietary, 878 
Feeding experiments, with regard to liver 

disease, 877 

Feet, blisters on the, from marching, 90 
care of the, 90, 602 

in the German army, 603 
causes of blisters on the, 91 
deformity of, from bad shoes, 314 
German army powder for the, 92 
protection of the, in cold climates, 914 



INDEX. 



Fencing as an exercise, 63 

Ferrous sulphate, as a disinfectant, 782 

method of using, 782 
Fevers, influence of sewer air upon, 547 
Field, causes of sickness in the, 688 
exercises, mental value of, 848 
Filters, Berkefeld, the, 146 
for rain-water, 99 
improvised field, 144 
Maignen, the, 146 
Pasteur-Chamberland, the, 149 
Pasteur, effect of, in reducing diar- 

rlnral disease. 115 
Fire-places in tents, 378 
open, 499 

open, construction of, 500 
open, disadvantages of, 500 
ventilating, 501 

ventilating, advantages of, 501 
Fires, vitiation of air by, 458 

of air by open, 454 

Fish, canned salmon, chemical composi- 
tion of, 289 

characteristics of good quality of, 237 
chemical composition of varieties of 

fresh, 237 

nutritive value of fresh, 237 
pickled mackerel, chemical composi- 
tion of, 289 

poisoning from the use of, 236 
poisonous qualities of preserved, 238 
preservation of fresh, 236 
refuse in fresh, 235 
salt cod, chemical composition of, 

238 
Fleas, means of destroying, in barracks, 

480 
Flies as agents for transmission of cholera, 

656 

for transmission of typhoid, 688 
relation of, to spread of plague, 722 
Floors, danger from wet, 429 
dangers in sweeping, 428 
disinfection of, 798 
in barracks. 419 
mopping of. 428 
Floor-space, allowance of, in hospitals, 442 

allowance of, in squad-rooms, 460 
Floors, temperature near, 418 

use of water on, 429 
Flour, adulteration of, 240, 244 
care of, 245 

chemical composition of issue, 240 
destruction of insects in, 244 
inspection of, 241 
mites in, 242 
qualities of good, 240 
tests for gluten in, 242 
for moisture in, 241 
weevils in, 248 

Fluids, use of, on the march, 88 
Fluorescin. use of, in testing wells, 108 
Flush-tank, Rogers-Field automatic, 578 
Flush-tanks, automatic, common forms of, 

574 

non-automatic, 575 
size of, 572 
use of, 572 
Fly, life-cycle of the, 688 



Food, allowance of, for cold climates, 916 
character of, for the tropics, 864, 867 
fresh, necessity for, in cold climates, 

917 

general consideration of, 155 
importance of sufficient, in cold cli- 
mates, 916 
on troop-ships, 931 
quantity of, in the tropics, 864 
use of, in the tropics, 866 
Foods, character of, for cold climates, 917 
special concentrated or preserved, 282- 

290 
Food-supply, sanitary inspection of the, 

947 

Foot-gear used in various armies, 818 
Foul air, extraction of, by heat, 478 
Foundations of barracks, 416 
Forage-cap, the regulation, 302 
Foraging as a means of subsistence, 182 
Forbes' water sterilizer, the, 138 
Forced marches, 85 
Formaldehyde as a deodorant for tmen, 

792. 

as a disinfectant, 790 
as a food preservative, 232 
Bowdoin apparatus for generating, 

793 

chemical character of, 790 
combination of acetone and, 792 
disinfecting bag for, 796 
generation of, 791 
germicidal efficiency of, 791 
Kny-Scheerer apparatus for generat- 
ing, 794 

penetration of, 792 
precautions in the use of, 792 
solution, use of, as a spray, 784 
test for, 790 

the Schering and Glatz lamp for gen- 
crating, 794 
Free ammonia, determination of, in water, 

127 

Freezing, effect of, on the typhoid bacil- 
lus, 104 
Fresh air, amount of, required in barracks, 

464. 
amount of, required in hospitals, 

466 

inlets, cleanliness of, 470 
inlets for cold, 470 
relation of, to quantity of carbon 

dioxide, 464 

wanning of entering, 470 
Friction, effect of, in reducing rate of air- 
currents, 459 

Frost-bite, effect of proper clothing in re- 
ducing, 915 

liability of negro soldiers to, 913 
Fruits, dried, chemical composition of, 266 

fresh, use of, by troops, 266, 868 
Frying of meat, 235 
Fuel, allowances of, 497 
equivalents of, 496 
issue of, 498 
moisture in wood, 498 
poor, disadvantages of, 497 
production of heat from, 496 
Fuels, heating power of various, 498 



INDEX. 



958 

Fuel, sufficiency of allowance of, 499 
"Fusslappen," the German army, 310 

GARBAGE and refuse, cremation of, in 

camps, 395 

disposal of. in camps, 393 
collection of, 394 
disposal of, 586 
sale of, to civilians, 394 
Gardens, post, 255 
Gaseous disinfectants, 785 
Gasoline, destruction of bedbugs by, 425 
Gauntlets, fur, 915 
General messes, 181 
Gloves, the uniform, 309 
Gluten, necessity for sufficient, in flour, 

241 

tests for, in flour, 242 
Gonorrhea, occurrence of, among troops, 

827 

Goux system of excreta disposal, 539 
Grating, reduction in ventilating space 

produced by, 475 

Grease, clogging of drain-pipes, with, 577 
removal of, from pipes, 577 
traps, 577 

Greasy water, disposal of, 577 
Ground-water, level of, below barracks, 415 
Guard duty, 69 

in cold weather, 920 
Guard houses, cell-rooms in, 432 

necessity for sanitary condition 

of, 432 

Gymnasia, provision of fresh air in, 465 
Gymnasium exercise, 67 

HABITATIONS, essential qualities of health- 
ful, 403 

in cold climates, 921 
sanitary care of, in camps, 375 
Habits of the men, inspection with refer- 
ence to, 948 

regulation of, in the tropics, 907 
Hair, care of the, 604 
Hammocks, 424 
Hand-basins, allowance of, 591 
Hard bread, chemical composition of, 252 
Hats, straw, use of, 304 
Havelock, use of the, 302 
Head-covering, the military, 302 
Head-gear, character of, lor the tropics, 

893 

Head-lice, means of destroying, 605 
Health, as affected by branch of service, 

622 

by locality, 620 
by military rank, 627 
influence of bodily cleanliness on, 589 
of troops, causes affecting the, 610 

during peace, 628 
war as affecting the, of armies, 638 
Hearing, examination of, in recruits, 23 
Heart, dilatation of the, under exercise, 36 
Heart-strain, deaths from, 93 

from severe marching, 92 
Heat, available from open fire-places, 500 
carriage of, by water, 493 
conductibility to, of various sub- 
stances, 415 



Heat, convection of, 491 

equable distribution of, 494 

extraction of foul air by, 478 

Heating and dampness of walls, 417 

and ventilating, arrangement for, 472 

relation between, 492 
by hot air, 508 
water, 512 
by open fires, 500 

disadvantages of, 500 
by steam, 518 

advantages of, 520 
by stoves, 502 
central, 507 

advantages of, 508 
general consideration of, 491 
local. 499 
of barracks, 491 

from lights, 529 
of rooms, how effected, 492 
of troop-ships, 927 
Heat, loss of, from buildings, 493 
production of, from fuel, 496 

of internal, 866 

proportion of, yielded by stoves, 503 
yielded by ventilating fire-places, 

501 

radiation of, 491 
use of, in ventilation, 471 

in water purification, 137 
Height, minimum, for the recruit, 11, 13 
of soldiers, in relation to marching, 13 
of squad-rooms, 419 
of various nationalities, 11 
strength in relation to, 12 
Helmets, use of, in the tropics, 893 
Helmet, the military, 303 

the white, 893 
Hemeralopia in scurvy, 762 
High-pressure hot-water systems, 516 
Hogs, keeping of, by troops, 212 

method of cutting up, 212 
Hominy, chemical composition of, 264 
Horse, allowance of water for, 96 
Horse-meat, characteristics of, 220 

use of, by troops, 219 
Horse-troughs, disinfection of, 799 
Hospital, general, at Fort Monroe, 439 
at San Francisco, 441 
at Savannah, 441 
plan of camp for field, 346 
Hospitals, allowance of cubic space for, 

461 

amount of fresh air required in, 466 
arrangement of pavilion wards in, 

439 

cubic space to be allowed in, 443 
defects of present post, 435 
floor space required in, 442 
general consideration of, 434 
ground area per bed in, 441 
limit of expenditure for post, 434 
location of, on troop-ships, 931 
necessity for free ventilation of, 444 
odors in, 455 
pavilion wards for, 438 
quantity of water required in, 95 
United States army, defects of pavil- 
ion wards of, 442 



INDEX. 



959 



Hot-air and hot-water combination system, 

516 

furnace, advantages of, 508 
furnaces, care of, 509 
furnaces, disadvantages of, 509 
furnaces, heating capacity of, 512 
furnaces, rules for installing, 511 
furnaces, types of, 508 
Hot climates, adverse effect of, on whites, 

860 

digestive functions in, 860 
effect of, on respiration, 856 
effect of, on the pulse rate, 856 
elevated body temperature in, 854 
elimination of urea in, 859 
function of the skin in, 859 
increase of perspiration in, 859 
influence of, on the nervous sys- 
tem, 860 

loss of body-weight in, 855 
need for oxygen in, 858 
oxygenation of the blood in, 857 
quantity of water required in, 95 
the hygiene of, 854 
the physiology of, 854 
water, heating, low-pressure system 

of, 512 

heating of buildings by, 512 
piping, quantity required of, 514 
system, high pressure, 516 
system, high pressure, defects of, 

517 
system, low pressure, flow of 

water in, 513 
Huts, excavated, 365 
disadvantages of, 367 
improvised, 864 
intervals between, 364 
log. 866 

materials for improvised, 365 
size of , 364 

Hydraulic ventilators, 484 
Hygiene of cold climates, 912 

relation of, to military efficiency, 648 
Hypochlorites, the, as disinfectants, 781 

ICE, artificial, character of water used in 

making, 889 
manufacture of, 889 
bacteria in, 104 
Iced-water, use of, 886 
Ice, from surface waters, 104 
Incineration, as a means of disinfection, 

768 
Indiscretion, dangers of, in the tropics, 

911 
Individual hygiene in infectious disease, 

754 

Infantry camp, plan of the, 344 
Infectious disease, abandonment in, 753 
artificial immunity in, 755 
avoidance in, 752 
cure of bodies dead from, 986 
general prophylaxis in, 749 
importance of diagnosis in, 750 
individual hygiene in, 754 
isolation in, 750 
quarantine in, 752 
diseases, 649 



Influenza, means of spread and infection 

in, 697 

occurrence of, 696 
prophylaxis of, 697 
Inhumation after battle, 937 
Inlet apparatus for ventilation, 474 
Inlets, fresh air, location of, 470 

plugging of, 456 

Insanity and suicide among soldiers, 845 
causes of. in the soldier, 845 
influence of race on, 846 
of rank on, 846 

of the canteen in reducing, 817 
occurrence of, in the United States 

army, 845 

reduction of rates for, 849 
relation of, to alcoholism, 812 
Insolation, causes of, 905 

in temperate climates, 904 
occurrence of, in the tropics, 904 
prophylaxis of, 906 

Inspection of the person of the soldier, 590 
Inspections, sanitary, 942 

special points in making sanitary, 

946 

Inspectors, qualifications of sanitary, 943 
Insulation, method of securing, for cold 

storage, 891 

Interment, disposal of the dead by, 934 
Isolation in infectious disease, 750 
Itch, camp or army, 606 

JACKSON grate, the, 501 

KHAKI uniform, the, 892 

Kidneys, effect of exercise on the. 89 

Kitchen, British army field, 178 

excavated fire-places for field, 174 
Kitchens, field, 172 

Kny-Scheerer formaldehyde generator, 794 
Kola-nut, use of the, 290 
Kraftzwieback, 284 

LAMPS, for mineral oil, 528 

Latitude, relation of, to mortality, 850 

Latrine, accommodations in the, 881 

construction of, in standing camps, 383 
of the temporary, 882 

detached, for pavilion wards, 448 
Latrines, care of excavated, 884 

detached water-closet, 561 

disinfection of camp, 385 
of common, 808 

location of camp, 346, 382 

necessity for promp construction of, 
381 ' 

night, in barracks, 568 

number of seats in. 563 

on troop-ships, 931 

placing of, over water, 104 

post, construction of, 562 

relation between, and kitchens. 882 
Latrine, the Bissell incinerating, 390 

the bucket or tub, 889 

the trough, 885 

wagon, the Bissell incinerating, 391 
Laundries, post, 607 
Lavatories, allowance of basins in, 591 

arrangement and fitments of, 590 



960 



INDEX. 



Lavatories, camp, 601 

Leaching cess-pools, disposal of sewage 

by, 579 

Lead in drinking-water, 114 
I^eaks, detection of, in plumbing, 558 
in plumbing, peppermint test for, 559 

water test for, 558 

Leather, disinfection of articles of, 804 
Leggings, the uniform, 311 
Length of marches, 82 

of service, as influencing occurrence of 

typhoid, 689 

as influencing sickness and mor- 
tality, 623 
Lice, body, destruction of, 606 

head, destruction of, 605 
Light artillery, plan of camp for, 346 

influence" of, on bacteria in water, 101 
Lighting, artificial, 522 

conclusions concerning, 531 
methods of, comparison of various, 530 
of barracks, 521 

size of windows for proper, 521 
Lights, heating from artificial, 529 

vitiation of air from, 529 
Light, unit of, 522 
Lime, air-slacked, 778 
as a disinfectant, 778 
chlorinated, as a disinfectant, 780 
decomposition of, 780 
disinfectant value of, 780 
milk of, 778 

use of, as a disinfectant, 779 
Line officers as authorities on sanitation, 

945 
Liquid waste, disposal of, 576 

soil pollution from, 576 
Liver disease, effect of nitrogenous diet in, 

876 

experiments with reference to, 877 
Locality as affecting health, 620 
sanitary inspection of a, 946 
Location for driven wells, 110 
Lockers for squad-rooms, 422 
Loss, comparative, from sickness and 
wounds, 612 

MACKEREL, chemical composition of pic- 
kled, 239 

Maconochie ration, the, 285 

Madagascar expedition, sickness during 
the, 643 

Maignen filters, the, 146 

Mains, water, method of laying, 113 

Malarial fevers, cause of, 700 

climate in relation to, 710 
crescentic organisms in, 702 
flagellate organisms in, 702 
immunity of the negro to, 712 
influence of season upon, 711 
in relation to dampness, 711 
life-history of organisms in, 701 
occurrence of, 698 
parasites in various, 703 
part played by water in origina- 
tion of, 115, 705 
predisposing causes of, 708 
physical exhaustion in relation to, 
714 



Malarial fevers, prophylaxis of, 714 

reduction in frequency of, 699 
relation of age to, 713 
infection, accomplished by the mos- 
quito, 704 

mosquito, identification of the, 707 
Malaria, outbreak of, on the ship Argo, 115 
Manual of arms as an exercise, 60 
March, care of convalescents on the, 89 
crowd-poisoning on the, 81 
delays on the, 86 
Marches, forced, 85 

night, 86 

March, health of troops on the, 93 
in campaign, the, 74 
influence of meteorological conditions 

on the, 83 

of terrain on the, 84 
Marching, bent-knee, 77 

blisters on the feet from, 90 
ease of, in relation to height, 13 
heart-strain from, 92 
in the tropics, 903 
methods of, 75 
pied force resulting from, 92 
straight-leg, 76 
March, length of the, 82 

mental occupation on the, 89 
position of troops on the, 81 
preparation for the, 74 
prevention of thirst on the, 89 

of sore feet on the, 91 
rapidity of the, 81 
rests on the, 87 
steps, length of the, 78 

the, 75 

straggling on the, 89 
time for the, 81 
use of coffee on the, 89 
of fluids on the, 88 
of tobacco on the, 89 
work done on the, 80 
Mattresses, use of, on troop-ships, 929 
Mattress, the regulation, 425 
McKinnell's ventilator, 476 
Meals, hours for, 180 
Measles, artificial immunization in, 719 
infection and dissemination, 718 
occurrence of, 717 
prophylaxis of, 719 
severity of, among soldiers, 718 
Meat, appearance of frozen, 228 

of refrigerated, 223 
boiling of, 233 
broiling of, 234 
cakes, Hoffman's, 283 
canned, appearance of good, 228 
chemical composition of, 226 
deterioration of, 227 
poisonous qualities of, ^28 
preparation of, 227 
use and nutritive value of, 225 
care of freshly killed, 221 
chemical preservation of raw, 230 
cooking of, 283 
contracts, 192 
effect of boric acid on, 231 

of salicylic acid on, 281 
fresh, 191 



INDEX. 



961 



Meat, fresh, in prevention of scurvy, 917 
frying of, 235 

increased allowance of frozen, '224 
loss of weight in the ration of, 192 
powders, 288 
preservation of, 221 

aided by manner of slaughter, 222 
by canning, 225 
by drying, 225 
by heat, 224 
by smoking, 225 
by sulphur dioxide, 232 
ptomaines in fresh, 202 
refrigerated and frozen, 222 
roasting of, 234 
salt, 229 
stewing of, 238 
test for boric acid in, 231 

for salicylic acid in, 231 
use of formaldehyde in preserving, 232 

in the tropics, 868 
Medical officers, duties of, with regard to 

sanitary inspection, 942 
necessity for authority by, on san- 
itary matters, 945 
Meningitis, cerebro-spinal, 651 
cause of, 651 
in the tropics, 652 
manner of infection in, 652 
occurrence of, 651 
predisposing causes of, 652 
prophylaxis of, 653 

Mental disqualifications of the recruit, 21 
state, relation of, to vital resistance, 

755 
Mercury, bichloride of, as a disinfectant, 

776 

precautions in use of, 776 
Merriam pack, the, 329 
Messes, general, 181 
Messing and subsistence in foreign armies, 

183 
Mess outfit, the, 383 

the Preston, M4 
Meteorological conditions as affecting 

marching, 88 

Method of examining the recruit, 19 
Military and civil death rates, comparison 

of, 614 
forces, composition of, for the tropics, 

862 
morals, influence of inebriety upon, 

813 

rank, as affecting health, 627 
Milk of lime, 778 

Mittens, means of preventing loss of, 915 
Moist heat, deterioration of textures under, 

772 

use of, in disinfection, 769 
Moisture, condensation of, in cold cli 

mates, 921 

effect of draft produced by atmos- 
pheric, 457 

in air, in relation to ventilation, 454 
in flour, tests for, 241 
in heated air, 495 
in walls of new buildings, 444 
in wood fuel. 498 

relation of atmospheric, to climate, 852 
61 



Molasses, nutrient value of, 268 
Monotony of life in camps, 844 
Moral disqualifications of the recruit, 21 
Mortality and morbidity as influenced by 

age, 626 

as influenced by race, 617 
as influenced by season. 618 
influence of length of residence in the 

tropics on, 861 
Mosquito-bars, necessity for, 897, 902 

use of, in barracks, 427 
Mosquitoes, methods of destroying, 715 
of destroying the larva; of, 715 
Mosquito, the, as transmitting agent in 

malaria, 704, 706 
as transmitting agent in yellow 

fever. 745 

malarial, identification of, 707 
Moulds on fresh bread, 250 
Mouth, care of the, 603 
Mucor mucedo on fresh bread, 251 
Mumps, 719 
Munson tent, advantages of the, 899 

the, 899 

Muscular development in relation to exer- 
cise, 35 
Mutton, characteristics of good, 210 

chemical composition of, 211 
Myalgia, occurrence of, 757 
prophylaxis of, 758 

NATATION, as an exercise, 66 

for securing cleanliness, 593 
Natations, precautions to be taken during, 

67 

Native forces, use of, in the tropics, 862 
Nativity of recruits, 8 
Negro soldiers, susceptibility of, to cold, 

913 

susceptibility of, to venereal dis- 
ease, 828 

troops, lessened liability of, to alco- 
holism, 810 
lessened liability of, to dysentery, 

673 
susceptibility of, to rheumatism, 

757 
Nervous system, effect of hot climates on 

the, 860 

New buildings, occupancy of, 444 
Night- latrines, 568 
Night marches, 86 
Nitrates, determination of, in water, 12<> 

significance of, in water, 126 
Nitrites, determination of, in water, 125 

significance of, in water, 125 
Nitrogenous diet, effect of, in the tropics. 

876 

effect of, on liver disease, 876 
Non-efficiency, causes affecting the rate 

for, 645 

Norwegian stove, the, 919 
Nostalgia among soldiers, 843 
Novior knapsack, the, 331 
Nutrition in relation to vital resistance, 754 
relation of, to inebriety, 808 

OATMEAL, chemical composition of, 285 
use of, 264 



962 



INDEX. 



Occupancy of cnnip sites, duration of, 375 
Occupation, mental, on the march, 89 

of troops, necessity for, 843 
Odor, method of estimating, in drinking- 
water, 119 

of organic matter in air, 486 
( More, in hospitals, 456 
in squad -rooms, 455 
OTdium aurantiacum, on bread, 251 
Oil, linseed, as a dressing for floors, 429 
mineral, for illuminating purposes, 

522 
for the destruction of mosquitoes, 

715 
use of, in preventing unsealing of 

traps, 556 
in urinals, 572 
Onions, chemical composition of, 257 

qualities of, 257 
Openings, ventilating, location and size of, 

469 

Organic matter in air, odor of. 486 
in respired air, 456 
under floors, 419 
Outlets, ventilating, 471 
Overcoats, for cold climates, 915 
Overcoat, the uniform, 304 
Over-crowded posts, reduction of irarrison 

in, 463 

Over-crowding, instances of, 463 
Over-training, 41 

predisposing causes of, 50 
symptoms of, 51 
Oxygenation of the blood, effect of hot 

climates upon. 857 
Oxygen, need for, in hot climates, 858 

PAIL SYSTEM, disadvantages of the, 534 
disposal of excreta by the, 534 
Pain de guerre, in the French army, 253 
Pajamas, use of, in the tropics, 902 
Parafflnc, treatment of floors with, 429 
Parasites, insect, 605 
Pasteur-Chambcrland filters, the, 149 
Pavilion wards, arrangement of, 439 
detached latrines for, 443 
for hospitals, 438 
United States army, defects of, 

442 
Peace, decrease in sick- and death-rates 

during, 629 

health of troops during, 628 
Peas, chemical composition of, 263 

use of, by troops, 263 
Penicillum glaucum, on bread, 250 
Pepper, detection of adulteration of, 274 
Peppermint test, the, 559 
Permanganate of potash, purification of 

water by, 153 

Person, disinfection of the, 805 
Perspiration, increase of, in hot climates, 

859 
Petroleum, use of, in destroying bedbugs, 

425 

in disinfecting camp latrines, 385 
Pettenkofer's method of determining car- 
bon dioxide, 488 

Physical defects, determination of, in sol- 
diers, 34 



Physical proportions, proper, 52 

training, general consideration of, 33 
in foreign armies, 56 
in the Luited States army, 57 
schools of instruction for, 59 
Physiology of cold climates, the, 913 

of hot climates, the, 854 
Pied force, 92 
Pinar del Rio, regulation of prostitution 

in, 836 

Pipes, testing of, 558 
Plague, cause of, 721 

occurrence of, 720 

predisposing causes of, 721 

preventive inoculation against, 724 

propagation and dissemination of, 722 

prophylaxis of, 723 

transmission of, by animals, 722 
Plaster wall, care of, 421 

contamination of, 421 
Plumbing, general consideration of, 559 

inspection of, 946 

need for, in soldiers' quarters, 560 

smoke-test for leaks in, 559 

testing of, 557 

Pluto barrack stove, the, 502 
Pneumonia, cause of, 726 

dissemination and infection, 726 

occurrence of, 725 

predisposing causes of, 727 

prophylaxis of, 728 
Police, performance of sanitary, 400 

sanitary inspection with reference to 

the, 947 

Pollution of surface waters, the, 103 
Pork, chemical composition of fresh, 212 

measles in, 213 

salt, chemical composition of, 218 
method of preserving, 219 
use of, by troops, 219 
Porters, use of, in the tropics, 903 
Position of troops on the march, 81 
Post barber shops, hygiene of, 605 

bath-houses, 597 

gardens, 255 

laundries, 607 
Posts, estimation of sewage of, 545 

location and arrangement of, 403 
of, in the tropics, 894 

not to be near cities, 404 
Potatoes, chemical composition of white, 
256 

means of preserving fresh, 917 

quantity of starch in, 257 

sprouting of, 256 

Practice marches, as an exercise, 64 
Precautions, during process of disinfec- 
tion, 806 

Preservation of fresh fish, 237 
Preserved food-stuffs, 282 
Prisoners, outdoor work for, 452 
Privy-pits, disinfection of, 803 
Proportions, proper physical, 52 
Prostitutes, compulsory examination of, 
837 

regulations for control of, 837 

solicitation by, to be prevented, 838 
Prostitution, clandestine, 837 

control of, at Wady Haifa, 837 



INDEX. 



903 



Prostitution, control of, in foreign armies, 

M 

in reducing syphilis, 832 
in the Italian army, N'M 
necessity for. N:}() 
effect of control of, in the British 

army, 832 

control of, in Capo Colony. s:U 
in the tropics, 910 
regulation of, at Jolo, 836 
in Pinar del Rio, 836 
rules for regulation of, 836 
the ethics of, 838 

Protein, allowance of, in the tropics, 877 
decrease of. in the tropics. 875 
deficiency of native diets in respect 

to, 875 

digestibility of, l.~)7 
in the tropical dietary, 8715 
use of, iu the body, 155 
Psorospermia, appearance of, 217 
Ptomaines, in meat, 202 
Pulse-rate, effect of climate on the, 856 
Punkah, use of the, in the tropics, 898 
Purification of drinking-water, 137 
of water by chemical means, 151 
by mechanical means, 443 
by physical means, 137 
Putties, use of, in India, 894 

QUALIFICATIONS of the recruit, 20 
Quarantine, in infectious disease, 752 
Quarters, married soldiers', fixed propor- 
tion of, 433 

soldiers', inspection of, 433 
soldiers', plumbing in, 560 
soldiers', sanitary condition of, 

433 

officers', 433 

Quicklime, burial of the dead in, 939 
Quinine, use of, in the tropics, 911 

RACE, as influencing mortality and mor- 
bidity, 617 
influence of, in circulatory diseases, 

764 

in malarial fevers, 713 
in resisting cold, 918 
in typhoid fever, 688 
in yellow fever. 791 
on insanity, 846 

relation of, to acclimation in the trop- 
ics, 860 
Races, disabilites of various, iu the tropics, 

861 
Radiating surface, amount of, for heating, 

515 

amount of, with steam heat, 520 
Radiation, direct, 492 
direct-indirect, 492 
indirect, 492 

Radiators, location of, 515 
Rain-bath systems, 595 
Rainfall, quantity of water available from 

the, 97 

relation of, to climate, 851 
Rain-leaders, arrangement of, 420 
Rams, water, 113 
Rank, influence of, on insanity, 846 



I {.-ink, influence of, on malaria, 711 

on suicide, 848 

Kate of entering air currents. l> 
Ration, additions to the, 169 

Argentine Republic army. I'.HI 

Austro-IIungarian army, imi 

Belgian anny, 189 

British army, 183 

chemical composition of the United 

States army, 291 
cooking of the, 169 
dietaries yielded bv the, 162 
Dutch ariny, Ml 
emergency, qualities for the, 275 
French army, 185 
German army, 184 

army, war, 185 

increase of, in cold climates, 917 
insufficiency of, in cold climates, 91(> 
Italian army, 188 
Japanese army, 189 
means of cooking the, 170 
meat and fish components of the, 191 
nutritive value of the, 161 
qualities of the, 160 
quality of the, 165 
quantities of the, in the tropics, 8H5 
quantity of the, 160 
Russian army, 187 
savings from the, 168 
service of the, 180 
Swiss army, 188 
Turkish anny, 189 
United States army travel, 290 
value of refuse from the, 167 
variety in the, 166 
wastage of the, 167 

Rations, analyses of the German army, 165 
comparison of, 190 
emergency, 275 
Rats, in spread of plague, 722 

of trichinosis, 221 
significance of, near drains, 558 
Recruit, age and development of the, 8 
age of the, 6 

average proportions of the, 16 
chest measure in relation to height of 
the, 15 

measure of the 14 

mobility in the, 16 
determination of age in the. 10 

of physical deficiencies in, 34 
developmental anatomy of the, 7 
disease of the heart and lungs iu the. 

16 
examination of hearing in the, 23 

of the, 18 

general qualifications of the, 20 
maximum age for the, 9 

weight for the, 14 
Recruitment, 1 

Recruit, mental and moral education of 
the, 71 

disqualifications in the, 21 
method of examining the, 19 

of measuring the chest in the, 25 
minimum age for the, 9 

chest measure of the, 15 

height of the, 11, 13 



INDEX. 



Rpcruit, minimum weight for the, 14 
moral disqualifications of the, 21 
necessity for soundness of the, 2 
rejection of the, for varicocele, 27 
relation of height, weight and chest 

measure in the, 18 
Recruits, causes of rejection in, 31 
country and city bred, 5 
data concerning, in the Civil War, 12 
defectives among, 2 
general causes of rejection of, 82 
method of breathing in, 37 
nativity of United States army, 3 
previous status of, 3 
proportion of, rejected, 30 
special disqualifications of the, 21 
strength of, in relation to height, 12 
Recruit, syphilis as a disqualification in 

the, 21 

the undeveloped, 33 
use of food by the, 165 
varicose veins in the, 29 
venereal disease in the, 27 
weight of the, in relation to height, 14 
Re-enlistments, 30 

Refuse and garbage, disposal of, 586 
disposal of, in camps, 393 
disposal of, in the tropics, 907 
Refrigerating system, the Allen, 888 
the Condict, 887 
the De La Vergne, 886 
Refrigeration, artificial, 886 
Refrigerators, improvised, 224 
Regular troops, comparative sickness 

among, 1 

Regulations, absence of, concerning bar- 
rack space, 464 
Rejections, causes of, in volunteers, 31 

of recruits, proportion of, 30 
Requisitions, as a means of supply, 182 
Respiration, effect of hot climates on, 586 

vitiation of air by, 450 
Respiratory capacity, influence of hot cli- 
mates on the, 856 
Rests, on the march, 87 
Rheumatism, acute articular, influence of 

age on, 759 
articular, influence of dampness 

on, 759 

articular, occurrence of, 758 
articular, prophylaxis of, 759 
and myalgia, occurrence of, 759 

prophylaxis of, 758 
susceptibility of negro troops to, 757 
Rhi/opus nigricans, on bread, 252 
Rice, chemical composition of, 264 
use of, 263 
weevils in, 264 
Ridge ventilation, 477 
Roasting of meat, 284 
Rogers-Field flush-tank, the, 573 
Roofing, material for, of barracks, 420 
Roof, the mansard, in barracks, 420 
Room disinfection, 796 
Rooms, size of, in relation to drafts, 457 
Running drills, as an exercise, 65 

SACCHARIN, 269 
test for, 269 



Salicylic acid, effect of, on the organism, 

231 

test for, 231 
Salmon, canned, chemical composition of. 

239 

Salt, importance of, to the organism, 273 
Sanitaria, in the tropics, 911 
Sanitary board, regimental in camps, 943 
inspections, 942 

disadvantages of regular, 943 
duties of medical officers concern- 
ing, 942 

important points in making, 946 
main points in, of bedding, 947 
main points in, of clothing, 947 
main points in, of personal clean- 
liness, 947 

main points in, of police, 947 
main points in, of shelters, 946 
main points in, of sites, 946 
support given the medical officer 

in, 942 

when made, 943 
with reference to food supply. 

947 . 
with reference to character of the 

men, 948 
with reference to habits of the 

men, 948 

with reference to plumbing, 946 
with reference to prevailing dis- 
ease, 948 
with reference to water-supply, 

947 
inspectors, advantages of a corps of, 

943 

issuance of orders by, 945 
necessity of authority for, 944 
official relations of, 944 
qualifications of, 943 
recommendations of, 945 
value of, 942 
officer, duties of the, in disinfection. 

805 

statistics, for peace and war, com- 
pared, 640 
for the tropics, 637 
" Sanitas " trap, the, 555 
Sanitation of the battlefield, 937 
Scarlet fever, 728 
Schaffstaedt shower-bath, the, 596 
Schering and Glatz formaldehyde lamp. 

794 

Schools of instruction, for physical train- 
ing, 59 

Scott-Moncrieff filter tank, the, 584 
Scurvy, cause of, 761 
complications of, 762 
constant imminence of, 761 
prophylaxis of, 762, 917 
Sea, influence of the, on climate, 851 
Sea-sickness, 932 
Season, as affecting mortality, 618 

sickness, 618 

for arrival in the tropics, 863 
Seats, number of, in latrines, 563 
Sedimentation of water, 100 
Septic tank system, of sewage-disposal, 
r,sr, 



INDEX. 



965 



Service, length of, as influencing morbid- 
ity and mortality. 628 
tour of, in the tropics, 911 
Sewage, bacterial treatment of, 588 
discharge of, into water. 579 
disposal of, 578 

by cess-pools, 578 
Scott-Moncrieff apparatus for, 584 
septic-tank system of, 585 
estimation of, in posts, 545 
farms, 580 

ground-filtration of, 580 
precipitation of, 586 
subsoil irrigation of, 582 
Sewerage, general consideration of, 589 
objections to, 540 
systems, varieties of, 542 
Sewer air, effect of, 547 
Sewer-pipes, method of jointing, 548 

testing of, 548 
Sewers, care of, 549 
cleansing of, 550 
construction of, 542 
direction of, 544 
discharge from, 546 
disconnection of, 549 
essentials of a system of, 540 
form of, 542 
foundation of, 544 
gradient of, 546 
junctions of, 544 
material for, 548 
movement of air in, 548 
reduction of typhoid fever by, 541 
sanitary value of, 540 
size of, 544 
use of wooden, 542 
velocity of flow in, 545 
ventilation of, 549 

Sexual gratification, in the tropics, 909 
Shaking, as a means of disinfection, 767 
Shako, the military. 304 
Slu'lter, in the tropics, 894 
Shelters, inspection of, 946 
Shelves in barracks, care of, 422 
Slu-ringham valve, the, 475 
Shirt, the flannel, 807 

use of, in the tropics. 893 
Shoe, qualifications of the military, 812 
Shoes, canvas, 894 

deformity resulting from bad, 314 
method of breaking in new, 815 
methods of waterproofing, 316 
necessity for good, 811 
russet, 894 

Shoe, the regulation, 316 
Shower-baths, 598 

in the field, 602 
the Clow, 595 
the Schaffstaedt, 596 
Sickness and mortality, as influenced by 

age, 626 
and wounds, losses from, compared, 

612 

as affected by season, 618 
causes of, in the field, 688 
greater amount of, in the military ser- 
vice, 616 
loss of time from, 616 



Sick-rates, influence of habitations on, 409 
Siesta, the, in the tropics, 902 
Siphonage, in traps, 554 
Siphon-flush, French army, 574 
Rogers-Field, 573 
simple form of, 574 
Sites, sanitary inspection of, 946 
Skin, function of the, in hot climates, 859 
Slaughter-houses, as foci of disease, 220 

care of, 221 

Sleeping-bag, improvised, 818 
Sleeping-bags, use of, in cold climates, 922 
Sleep, in the tropics, 902 
Smallpox, infection and dissemination, 730 

occurrence of, 729 

prophylaxis of, 781 
Smells, significance of, in basements, 557 

in relation to carbon dioxide, 486 
Smith crematory, the, 398 
Smoke-test, the. 559 

Smoke, use of, in determining air-cur- 
rents, 487 

Smoking, the hygiene of, 841 
Snow -blindness, occurrence of, 920 

prevention of, 920 
Sodium carbonate, for removing hardness 

from water, 153 
Soil, of the camp-site, 338 
Soil-pipes, jointing of, 558 
material for, 552 
ventilation of, 553 
Soil-pollution, from cess-pits. 533 
Soil, relation of, to climate, 852 
Soldier, amusements of the, 848 

preventive measures against venereal 

applied to the, 888 
Soldiers' dietary and ration, the, 159 

nostalgia among, 843 

sanitary inspection with reference to 
work of, 948 

selection of, for tropical service, 863 
Soups, concentrated, 285 
Soup tablets, 287 

Spaces under floors, dangers of, 419 
Special disqualifications of the recruit, 21 
Spray apparatus, test of efficiency of the, 

782 

Sprays, use of, in disinfection, 782 
Spray, use of formalin as a, 784 
Springs, yield of water by, 105 
Sputum, disinfection of, 804 
Squad-rooms, height of, 419, 460 
odors in, 455 
size of, 414 
Stables, disinfection of, 798 

in barracks, 407- 
Stains, heat as a fixer of, 772 
"Standard emergency ration," the, 287 
Standards of diet, 163 
Standard, the sanitary, 647 
Star ventilator, 482 
Statistics, army medical, 610 

comparison of, 644 

limitations of military, 611 

points entering into military, 612 

value of, on alcoholism, 80$ 
Steam, as a disinfectant, 770 

disinfecting apparatus, 772 

heating by, 518 



wr> 



INDEX. 



Steam-heating, advantages of, 520 

radiating surface required in, 520 
system, pounding in, 520 
Steam-jets, ventilation by, 484 
Steam-pressure, in relation to temperature, 

771 

Step, rapidity of the marching, 79 
the double-time, 80 
the marching, 75 
the military, length of the, 79 
Sterilizer, the Arnold, 770 
Stewing of meat, 233 
Stews, concentrated, 285 
Strips, weather, use of, 494 
Stockings, care with respect to the, 310 
Stocking, the military, 309 
Storage of running water, 102 
Stove, Cortland Howe ventilating, 506 

folding camp, 171 

Stove-pipe, use of, in ventilation, 481 
Stoves, allowance of, 503 
barrack, 502 
heating, 502 
! material for, 504 
over-heating of, 454 
ventilating, 505 
Stove, the California. 377 
the Norwegian, 919 
the Sibley, 377 
ventilating, alleged economy in using, 

506 

Strategic importance of disease, 648 
Straw-mats, method of weaving, 380 
Streaming steam, penetration of, 770 

use of, in disinfection, 770 
Stream, quantity of water supplied by a, 

101 
Subsistence and messing in foreign armies, 

183 
Sugar, chemical composition of, 267 

value of, in preventing fatigue, 267 
Suicide, active service in preventing, 847 
age in relation to, 847 
and insanity, 845 
causes of, 846 

disgrace of the body of a, 848 
means employed for accomplishing, 

847 

rates for, 846 
reduction of rates for, 849 
relation of, to alcoholism, 812 

to desertion, 848 
Suits, canvas. 307 

Sulphur dioxide, as a disinfectant, 787 
as an insecticide, 425 
as a meat-preservative, 232 
germicidal value of, 788 
importance of damp air in using, 

788 

method of disinfecting with, 787 
quantity of, required for disinfec- 
tion, 788 

use of liquefied, 789 
Sunlight, as a disinfectant, 767 

necessity for, in barracks, 521 
Sunning of clothing, necessity for, 768 
Superficial space in the tropics, 897 
Superheated steam, as a disinfectant, 771 
Suspenders, the, 806 



Syphijis, as a disqualification in the 're- 
cruit, 21 

importance of, as affecting efficiency, 
824 

influence of controlled prostitution 
upon, 834 

in the United States army, 825 

rapid increase of, in the British army, 
825 

reduction of, through controlled pros- 
titution, 832 

resulting from tattooing, 842 

T^ENIA MEDIOCANELLATA, 203 

solium, detection of, 214 

life history of, 213 
Tank, separating, for rain-water, 98 
Tanty ration, the, 286 
Tar, coal, use of on floors, 429 
Target practice, 63 
Tattie, use of, in the tropics, 898 
Tattooed soldiers, proportion of, 842 
Tattooing, methods of performing, 842 

syphilis resulting from, 842 

the character of, 842 

the, of soldiers, 841 

tuberculosis resulting from, 842 
Tea, characteristics of good, 271 

preparation of, 272 

tablets, 290 

use of, 272 

Temperance clubs, 822 
Temperature, body, in the tropics, 854 

relation of, to death-rate, 850 
Tentage, disadvantages of United States 
army, in the tropics, 898 

disinfection of, 800 

for cold climates, 920 

in general, 356 

of foreign armies, 362 
Tent, common, 357 
wall, 358 

conical wall, 359 

flies, in promoting coolness, 378 

hospital, 361 

military, requirements of the, 356 

modified conical wall, 901 

Munson, 900 

officers' wall, 360 

ropes, methods of fastening, 379 
Tents, double canvas, 378 

fire-places in, 378 

hospital, methods of pitching. 361 

means of improving, during hot 
weather, 901 

methods of warming, 376 

necessity for frequent striking of, 379 

pitching of, on frames, 362 

shelter, 353 

in foreign armies, 355 
use of, in the tropics, 901 
Tent space, allowance of, per man, 357 
Tents, temperatures in, in the tropics, 899 

ventilation of, 376 
Tent walls, looping up of, 379 

wall, use of, in the tropics, 901 
Terrain, influence of, on the march, 84 
Terrazzo floors, 419 
Testing of plumbing, 557 



INDEX. 



967 



Thermantidote, use of, in the tropics, 898 
Thirst, relief of, 886 
Tin salts, in canned foods, 228 
Tobacco, advantages of using. 840 
evil effects of using, 841 
issue of, 841 
the use of, 840 
use of, on the march, 89 
Tobiu's ventilating tubes, 474 
Toilet articles, necessity for individual, 591 
paper, use of, in camps, 884 

use of, in water-closets, 569 
Toilet's barrack, 409 
Tomatoes, chemical composition of canned, 

258 

Tonnage allowance, on troop-ships, 932 
Tooth-powders, use of, 604 
Training, 49 

for wind, 89 

physical, in foreign armies, 56 

in the United States army, 57 
Transportation of the dead, 986 
Traps, back-pressure in, 554 
common forms of, 556 
depths of water-seal in, 553 
destruction of water-seal in, 554 
essential qualities of, 554 
grease, 577 
gully, 557 

removal of obstructions from, 556 
siphonage in, 554 
unsealing of, 555 
use of, 553 
venting of, 554 
Trap, the bell. 557 
the D, 556 
the Sanitas, 555 
Travel ration, the, 290 
Trenching, in camps, 374 
Tribolium confusum, in flour, 243 
Trichina spiralis, detection of, 216 
life history of, 215 
spread of, from slaughter-houses, 

221 

Tricresol, as a' disinfectant, 778 
Triumph barrack stove, the, 502 
Troops, causes affecting the health of, 610 
character of, for cold climates, 918 
cleanliness of person of, 588 
inspection of, before embarkation, 982 
movement of, in waterless districts, 95 
Troop-ships, allowance of cubic space on, 

927 

allowance of water on, 930 
care of the bilge in, 928' 
care of water-tanks on, 930 
cleanliness of the men on, 929 
cleansing of decks on, 927 
condensation of moisture in, 928 
dampness on. '.f.'T 
disposal of excreta on. Ml 
distil'atioii of water on. !:.o 
diver ,m of the men on, 93:5 
exercise on board, 938 
free movement of air on, 924 
heating of, 927 
hygiene of. 928 
improvisation of, 988 
latrines on, 931 



Troop-ships, location of hospitals on, 981 
sea-sickness on, 982 
tonnage allowance on, 932 
use of bunks on, 929 
use of clothing on board, 929 
use of cork paint in, 928 
use of food on board, 931 
use of ventilating fans on, 924 
ventilation of, 928 
Tropical dietary, necessity for a, 869 

proportion of carbohydrates in, 

880 

proportion of fats in, 879 
proposed, 885 
protein in the, 873 
quantities of food -stuffs in the, 

882 

standard for the, 881 
the, 869 

service, selection of soldiers for, 863 
temperatures, relation of, to need for 

food, 865 
Tropics, advantages of Munson tent for, 

899 

air-space under barracks in the, 896 
allowance of protein for the, 877 
barracks in the, 895 
beds for the, 902 
beverages in the, 885 
British regulations for barracks in the, 

896 

character of clothing for the, 891 
of food for the, 867 
of head -gear in the, 893 
color of clothing for the, 892 
composition of military forces for the, 

862 

cubic space in barracks in the, 897 
cut of clothing in the, 892 
dangers of indiscretion in the, 911 

of wetting in the, 910 
deaths from disease in various expedi- 
tions in the, 643 
decrease in protein intuitive in the, 

875 
deficiency of protein in foods native 

to the, 875 
diet in the, 864 
disabilities of various races in the, 

861 
disadvantages of regulation tentage in 

the, 898 

disposal of excreta in the, 907 
effect of nitrogenous diet in the 876 
electric lighting in the, 529 
encampments in the, 898 
exercise in the, 902 
exposure to drafts in the, 910 
greater freedom from disease of native 

troops in the, 864 

instinctive change of diet in the, 876 
length of residence in the, effect on 

mortality. 861 

location of stations in the, 894 
maintenance of cleanliness in the, 907 
marching in the, 903 
material for barracks in the, 895 
materials for barrack roofs in the, 420 
for walls in the, 415 



968 



INDEX. 



Tropics, means of making tents cooler in 

the, 901 

methods of cooling air in the, 897 
of cooling water in the, 886 
of laundryiug in the, 907 
necessity of exercise in the, 903 
of mosquito-bars in the, 897 
no improvement in medical statistics 

for the, 637 

occurrence of insolation in the, 904 
orientation of barracks in the, 895 
personal precautions in the, 910 
possibility of acclimation in the, 862 
problems with respect to venereal in 

the, 910 

prostitution in the, 910 
protection of the abdomen in the, 894 
quantity of food required in the, 865 
regulation of habits in the, 907 
relation of race to acclimation in the, 

860 

sanitaria in the, 911 
season for arrival in the, 863 
severe effects of alcohol in the, 909 
sexual gratification in the, 909 
sleep in the, 902 

special points on barracks for the, 896 
superficial space in barracks in the, 

897 

temperatures in tents in the, 898 
test of acclimation in the, 861 
tour of service in the, 911 
United States army tentage in the, 

898 

use of abdominal band in the, 894 
of alcoholics in the, 908 
of campaign hat in the, 894 
of canvas shoes in the, 894 
of condiments in the, 869 
of fats in the, 878 
of flannel shirt in the, 893 
of food in the, 866 
of fruits in the, 868 
of helmets in the, 893 
of meats in the, 868 
of native troops in the, 862 
of pajamas in the, 902 
of porters in the, 903 
of quinine in the, 911 
of the punkah in the, 898 
of the ration in the, 885 
of thermantidote in the, 898 
of the tattie in the, 898 
of the wall tent in the, 901 
of vegetables in the, 867 
of water in the, 885 
ventilation of barracks in the, 897 
work in the, 902 
Tropon, 285 
Trough latrine, the, 385 

water-closet, the, 567 
Trousers, the uniform, 806 
Tub-baths, 593 

I uberculm, preparation of, 205 
Tuberculosis, appearance of a carcass of 

beef with, 207 
cause of, 736 

dissemination and infection, 737 
flies as agents in transmission of, 738 



Tuberculosis in beef cattle, 207 
m toll men, 13 
occurrence of, 735 
predisposing causes of, 738 
prevalence of, in tropical natives trans- 

ported to cold climates, 913 
production of, by beef, 207 
prophylaxis of, 739 
relation of subsoil drainage to, 404 

to ventilation, 739 
resulting from tattooing, 842 
Tubs, urine, in camps, 393 
Typhoid bacilli in urine, 680 

effect of freezing upon, 104 
growth of, in earth, 342 
transmission of, by dust, 684 
transmission of, by flies, 683 
transmission of, by personal con- 

tact, 684 

transmission of, by water, 680 
vitality of, 115, 116, 679 
fever, cause of, 678 

character of water-borne epidem- 

ics of, 682 
disposal of excreta during out- 

breaks of, 693 
effect of camp life in increasing, 

676 
elimination of infectious material 

in, 679 
following leakage from sewers, 

543 
former ideas as to the origin of, 

685 

infectiyity of the secretions in, 680 
influence of age on, 689 
influence of climate on, 687 
influence of race on, 688 
influence of season on, 688 
greater frequency of, with dry- 

earth closet, 538 

length of service in relation to, 690 
methods of dissemination in, 680 
occurrence of, 674 
predisposing causes of, 686 
preventive inoculation against, 

695 

prophylaxis of, 691 
proportion of soldiers susceptible 

to, 677 
reduction in, through use of sew- 

ers, 541 
temperance drinks as a means of 

spread of, 682 

the danger of mild cases of, 685 
the diazo reaction in, 693 
the military importance of, 675 
the Widal test for, 692 
uncleanliness in relation to, 690 
infection in animals, effect of sewer 

air on, 548 

pertinacity of the, 688 * 
spread of, by urine, 392 
Typhus fever, occurrence of. 741 

predisposing causes of, 742 
prophylaxis of, 743 
Tyroglyphus longior, in flour, 242 

ULCKRATIVE stomatitis in scurvy, 762 



INDEX. 



969 



Underclothing, use of, at night, 42(5 
Undershirt, the regulation, 808 
Uniform clothing. See Ctothiix] 

the khaki, 892 

Urea, elimination of, in hot climates. 859 
Urinals, automatic disinfection of, 575 

construction and form of, 570 

discolorations on, 572 

flushing of, 571 

odors from, 571 

use of oil in, 572 
Urine, disinfection of, 803 

part played by, in typhoid fever, 392, 
680 

tubs in barracks, 563 
in camps, 393 

VACCINIA, 734 

Vaccine virus, preparation of, 733 
Valleys, climate of, 850 
Vapor baths, 593 

Varicocele, cause for rejection of the re- 
cruit, 27 

Varicose veins in the recruit, 29 
Variety in preparing the ration, 166 
Vegetable material, use of, in cold cli- 
mates, 917 

Vegetables, chemical composition of vari- 
ous, 259 
desiccated, 289 
dried, 262 
fresh, 254, 256 

characteristics of good, 255 
cooking of, 259 
loss of nutrients from, 259 
use of, in the tropics, 867 
Vegetation, influence of, on climate, 852 
Velocities, scouring force of various, in 

sewers, 546 

Velocity of flow in sewers. 545 
Venereal disease, causes affecting the prev- 
alence of, 827 

cleanliness of person in prevent- 
ing, 837 

climate in relation to, 830 
comparison of rates for, in various 

armies, 823 

concealed, in troops, 836, 840 
control of prostitution in reduc- 
ing, 830 

determination of source of, 839 
discharge of soldiers with, 840 
examination of the soldier for, 

839 

general discussion of, 822 
imposition of penalties for, 839 
influence of race upon, 827 
influence of, on rates for alcohol- 
ism, 830 

in the recruit, 27 
lectures to soldiers on, 840 
occurrence of, 822 
prevalence of, in the British army, 

Bfl 

prevention of, 830 
preventive measures of, applied 

to the prostitute, 830 
preventive measures of. applied 
to the soldier, 838 



Venereal disease, problems with respect 

to, in the tropics, 910 
punishment for concealment of. 

840 

relation of, to age, 830 
restrictions placed on soldiers 

with, 839 
susceptibility of negro soldiers to, 

828 
syphilis the most important factor 

in, 824 

Ventilating apparatus, care of, 458 
cornice, the, 475 
fans on troop-ships, 924 
inlet-shafts, requirements of, 475 
inlets, maximum si/.e of individual, 

473 
openings, rule for determining si/.e of, 

473 

location of, 469 
size of, 472 
outlets, 471 

location of, in warm weather, 472 
shafts, color of upcast, 480 

heat extraction, requirements of, 

481 

horizontal, 477 

space, reduction in size of, by grat- 
ing, 476 

tubes, Tobin's, 474 
tube, Watson's, 476 
valve, Arnott's, 480 
Boyle's, 480 
Sheringham, 475 
Ventilation and heating, arrangement for, 

472 

arrangement of windows for, 468 
by aeration, 467 
by aspiration, 482 
by fans, 483 
by steam-jets, 484 
examination of, 485 
examples of inefficient attempts at, 449 
general consideration of, 446 
influence of free, on health, 448 
of poor, on health, 447, 451 
in hospitals, necessity for free, 444, 

448 

intake apparatus for, 474 
into halls, 469 

in the United States army, 448 
means of securing, 446 
natural, 466 

necessity for inlets and outlets iu, 449 
of barracks in the tropics, 897 
of sewers, 549 
of soil-pipes, 553 
of troop -ships, 928 
ridge, 477 
through doors, 469 

double windows, 469 
Ventilator, Banner's rotating. 482 
fixed downcast, 474 
Hanks', 483 

Jennings', air-brick, 474 
McKinnell's, 476 
Star, 482 
Wolpert's, 488 
Ventilators, hydraulic, 484 



970 



INDEX. 



Venting of traps, 554 
Vinegar, methods of testing, 274 
Vital resistance, lowered, a factor in con- 
gelation, 918 

Vitiation of air by respiration, 450 
Volunteers, greater losses by disease in, 1 
unsanitary habits of, 384, 393 

WAGONS, bakery, 176 
Wainscoting in barracks, 422 
Walls, barrack, construction of, 415 

impermeability of, 422 
dampness of, prevention of, 416 
disinfection of, 797 
double, 417 

of new buildings, moisture in, 444 
passage of air through, 466 
rough finish, in barracks, 422 
thickness of, 418 

War, as affecting the health of troops, 638 
Wards, hospital, care of, 438 

internal equipment of, 436 
Warmth of barracks, 494 
Wastage in fresh fish, 235 
in fresh meat, 192, 193 
in the ration, 167 
Waste, liquid, disposal of, 576 
Water, allowance of, in camps, 95 

on troop-ships, 930 
ammonia in drinking, 127 
amount required for laying dust, 69 
as a carrier of heat, 493 
as a vehicle for parasites, 116 
as an agent in infection in cholera, 

116, 655 
as an agent in infection in dysentery, 

114, 672 
as an agent in infection by malaria, 

115 
as an agent in infection b} r typhoid 

fever, 115, 680 
bacteria removed from, by filtration, 

148 

bacteriological examination of, 134 
barrels for carrying, 111 
carriage of, by the soldier, 95 
character of, used for artificial ice, 

889 

chemical analysis of, 120 
clarification of, by cactus leaves, 158 
Clark's process for removing hardness 

from, 152 
clearness of, 118 
color of drinking, 118 
common forms of microscopic life in, 

133 

construction of cisterns for storing, 98 
determination of albuminoid ammonia 

in, 128 

of dissolved oxygen in, 130 
of free ammonia in, 127 
>f hardness in, 122 
of lead or copper in, 131 
of nitrates in, 126 
of nitrites in, 124 
of odor of drinking, 119 
of organic material in, 124 
of oxygen-consuming capacitj 7 of, 



Water, determination of solids in, 122 
of sufficiency of a supply of, 97 
of yield of flowing, 101 
diarrhoea produced by, 114 
discharge of sewage into, 579 
disposal of greasy, 577 
distillation of, on troop-ships, 930 
distribution of, by pipes, 113 
Forbes' water sterilizer, the, 138 
from artesian wells, 106 
ground, freedom from bacteria of, 105 
hardness of good drinking, 123 
iced, use of, 886 
ice from surface, 104 
leeches in drinking, 117 
light as a destroyer of bacteria in, 101 
location of latrines over running, 104 
method of cooling in the tropics, 886 
of estimating odor of, 119 
of filtering rain, 97 
of laying mains for, 113 
microscopical examination of, 131 
permanency of supply of, 96 
permissible amount of ammonia in, 

128 
physical examination of, 117 

examination in the field, 120 
pollution of, in wells, 107, 109 
purification of, 137 
by alum, 115 
by "auticalcaire," 153 
by bromine, 154 
by chemical means, 151 
by distillation, 137 
by filtration, 144 
by heat, 137 

by mechanical means, 143 
by permanganate of potash, 153 
by sedimentation, 143 
quantity of, available from rainfall, 

97 

required for hospitals, 95 
required for shower baths, 94 
required for tub baths, 94 
required in barracks, 94 
required in hot climates, 95 
rain, for drinking purposes, 97 
regulation allowance of, in British 

army, 94 

allowance of, in French army, 94 
allowance of, in German army, 95 
removal of bacteria from, by sedimen- 
tation, 100 

sample of, for bacteriological exami- 
nation, 135 
search for, 110 

self -purification of flowing, 100 
separating tank for rain, 98 
significance of nitrates in, 126 

of nitrites in, 125 
size of cistern for storage of, 97 
sodium carbonate for removing hard- 
ness of, 153 
special arrangements for transporting, 

111 

storage of running, 102 
surface, 99 

pollution of, 103 
taste of, 119 



INDEX. 



971 



Water, temporary pipes for, in camps 112 
the sample of, 1:21 
transparency of, 118 
transportation of, 110 
use of civil supply of, 114 
in cooling air, 898 
in preventing insolation, 900 
in the tropics, 885 
value of microscopical examination of, 

132 

viability of typhoid bacillus in, 115 
yield or, from springs, 105 

from Berkefeld filters, 147 
U'ater-closet fixtures, 564 
Water-closets, care of, 569 
care of seats in, 568 
disinfection of, 803 
essentials of good, 564 
location and arrangement of, 560 
the use of casemates for installa- 
tion of, 562 

Water-closet, the "Century," 566 
the "Deluge," 565 
the hopper, 565 
the pan, 564 
the plunger, 565 
the trough, 567 
the "Twycliffe," 556 
the valve, 565 
the wash-out, 566 

Water-seal, destruction of, in traps, 554 
Water-supply, sanitary inspection of the, 

947 
Water-tanks, care of, on troop-ships, 

930 

Water-test for leaks in plumbing, 558 
Watson's ventilating tube, 476 
Weather-strips, economy resulting from 

the use of, 494 
Weevils in flour, 243 
in hard bread, 253 
in rice, 264 

Weight as affected by exercise, 39 
in relation to age and strength, 13 

to height, 14 

maximum, for the recruit, 14 
minimum, for the recruit, 14 
Wells, care of shallow, 106 



Wells, construction of sliulluw, i-i thi field 

10? 

disinfection of, 799 
driven, 109 
methods of determining pollution of, 

108 

Welsbach gas-burner, the, 525 
Wenham regenerative gas-burner, the, 525 
Wetting, dangers of, in the tropics, 910 
Wheel, Blackman, 484 
White-wash as a disinfectant, 779 
Widal test, the, 692 
Windows, arrangement of, in ventilation, 

468 

Window-sashes, swinging, 469 
Windows, barrack, loss of heat by, 421 

number of, 421 
Window screens in barracks, necessity for, 

421 
Windows, double, ventilation through, 

469 

in hospitals, 436 

movement of air through open, 467 
size of, in barracks, 521 
storm, necessity for, 421 
Winds, relation of, to climate, 851 
Wing disc fan, the, 484 
Wolpert's ventilator, 488 
Woodwork, disinfection of, 797 

in barracks, 418 

Wool as a material for clothing, 294 
Woolen fabrics, disinfection of, 801 
Wool-fat, use of, in waterproofing cloth- 
ing, 300 

Work done on the march, 80 
in the tropics, 902 
relation of alcohol to performance of, 

812 

of food to performance of, 157 
of, to the food required in the 
tropics, 864 

YELLOW FEVER, method of transmission 

of, 744 

seasonal distribution of, 746 
occurrence of, 744 
prophylaxis of, 748 
racial insusceptibility to, 747 




University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat, "Ref. Inda File** 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



