Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



!^1 '^' ~ 

£ S^'l THE EFFECT OF ALUM 

I HI 1 ON THE HUMAN SYSTEM, 



WJ / 



11/ 



/ 



BARING POWDERS. 



ELABORATE EXI'EIllMEXTS UrilS LIVING ANIMALS. 

KESEAKCHES MADE BY 

HEUEY A. MOTT, Jr., Ph.D., E.M. 

Mcniher of the AmerioHB Chenucftl Society — Mombar Beriin Cheniinal Society— 

Memljer American AaBoeintiou, Advancement of &oieijee— Member 

New Ynrk Auftdemy ot Sclsncea— MBHiber otthe 

PbarnmceQlical Societj-, etc., el.t. 



N E A\^ YORK. 

1880 



SITPI.EMENTED BY REPORTS OP TflE 

RXrElU.MENTS liV Al-IMI. DKVEIUilE, M. OKtUA, 
I!. V. UriTAN. M.IK. ETC., ETC. 



AXU TIIK LATER 



IMPOUTANr INVESTIGATIONS OE I'Al'L SIKM. 



(REPRINT, 1001) 



'3/A/? 

/90f 



THE EFFECT OF ALUM 

UPON THE HUMAN SYSTEM, 



WHEN USED IN 



BARING POWDERS. 



ELABORATE EXPERIMENTS UPON LIVING ANIMALS. 



RESEARCHES MADE BY 



HElifEY A. ^OTT, Jr., Ph.D., E.M. 

Member of the American Chemical Society — Member Berlin Chemical Society' 
Member American Association, Advancement of Science — Member 
New York Academy of Sciences — Member of the 
Pharmaceutical Society, etc., etc. 



]SrE^;\^ YORK. 

1880 



SUPPLEMENTED BY REPORTS OF THE 

EXPERIMENTS BY ALPH. DEVERGIE, M. ORFILA, 
R. F. RUTTAN, M.D., ETC., ETC. 

AND THE LATER 

IMPORTANT INVESTIGATIONS OF PAUL SIEM. 



(BEPBINT, 1901) 



1 1^/ 



THE EFFECT OF ALUM BAKING POWDER, 
WHEN USED IN BREAD, UPON THE 

HUMAN SYSTEM 



Journal of the American Ohemical Sodety. Vol. n/ 

Page IS, Before proceeding to a consideration of the effect of alum 
baking powders, the author thinks it advisable to briefly present the 
principal points so elaborately set forth in the following chapters. 
In the first chapter on the "Provings of Alum in Animals and Man," 
from the elaborate investigations of Devergie and Orfila, it is con- 
clusively demonstrated that alum in its hydrated and anhydrous (or 
calcined) condition has a corrosive action on the mucous membrane, 
and further, that it is sure to produce vomiting, constipation, extreme 
weakness, and loss of appetite, even in very small doses, and in such 
cases, if either by accident or intention, vomiting is prevented, death 
is sure to follow. 

It is the opinion of both Orfila and Devergie that if the stomach 
of man be not in a perfectly healthy condition the evil effects of 
alum, when taken internally, manifest themselves much sooner, as 
the alum acts more energetically. 

The base of alum, that is to say alumina, may be detected in the 
liver, the spleen, and the urine. 

Several cases of i>oisoning by the accidental use of alum are re- 
ported in the first chapter, some of which terminated fatally. The 
first case was of a Mrs. B., reported by Dr. Foumier, who took by 
mistake a swallow of about three teasx)oons of a solution of 16 
grammes of calcined alum dissolved in a litre of water. Scarcely 
had she drunk it when she pushed it away, '^complaining of nausea, 
severe heat, tearing pains in all parts that had come in contact with 
the alum;, the pulse had become rapid and the face animated; the 
muscles had been agitated by slight convulsive movements; the de- 
sire to vomit had increased; the thirst had become unextinguish- 
able." Under treatment of the physician she recovered in time. It 
must be remarked that Mrs. B. was an invalid, but it must also be 
remarked that the quantity of alum contained in the swallow of the 
solution she took was very small, demonstrating how i>owerfully 
active alum is in persons of weak constitutions. 

The case of death reported by Dr. Ricquet is not without interest. 
In this case a Mr. V. M., wishing to purge himself, ordered some 
sulphate of magnesia, but, in mistake, alum was given him. On dis- 

* Subsequently rewritten and enlarged by the author and republished ap here given. 



101903 



solving 30 grammes in water and drinking the same, he succumbed 
after horrible pains. "He felt a burning sensation in the mouth, 
throat, and stomach, followed by a single sanguineous vomiting. 
No stools, extreme uneasiness, then insupportable anguish, repeated 
lipothymies; intelligence and senses intact. Finally intermittent, 
filiform pulse; cold skin. The deglutition of liquid was almost im- 
I>ossible. He died eight hours after taking the remedy." Besides 
the last mentioned case of death, resulting from taking alum inter- 
nally, must be mentioned three cases of alum poisoning by Von 
Hasselt, Taylor, and Husemann, and two cases by Tardieu, all of 
which terminated fatally. 

Tardieu speaks of a woman who wilfully murdered her three- 
months-old child by administering to it about 0.9 gramme (fourteen 
grains) of alum. In the majority of other cases the alum was taken 
by mistake for other medical preparations. Von Hasselt states that 
cases of poisoning arise sometimes from the administration of too 
large doses of alum by order of the physician. 

In the case cited by Dr. Ricquet, at the autopsy yellowish-gray 
deposits were found on the mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, 
and oesophagus; the tongue and palate were swollen; the stomach, 
intestines, and kidneys were hypersemic, but without noticeable loss 
of substance. Chemical tests were repeatedly employed for the poi- 
son, continually demonstrating its presence. From the above re- 
capitulation of the first chapter, it is conclusively shown that alum 
is a powerful poison, producing a series of disorders in the system 
when taken internally, and finally ending in the death of the victim. 

It now becomes important to look into the effects of alum, when 
used in bread, upon the human system. To this part of the subject 
the second chapter (omitted from this reprint) has been devoted. 
To review all -the expressions of opinion of the prominent author- 
ities mentioned in this chapter is unnecessary. The conclusions 
they arrive at, as to the effect produced in the system by the con- 
tinued use of alumed bread is, that such bread will produce head- 
ache, indigestion, flatulence, constipation, diarrhoea, dysentery, pal- 
pitation, and urinary calculi. Dumas says: "It is to be feared that 
this salt exerts a deadly action by its daily introduction into the 
stomach, especially in persons of a weak constitution." Dr. Ure says : 
^*The habitual and daily introduction of a portion of alum into the 
human stomach, however small, must be prejudicial to the exercise of 
its functions, and particularly in persons of a bilious and costive 
habit. . . . Every precaution of science and law ought therefore to 
be employed to detect and stop such deleterious adulterations." Dr. 
Pereira says : "Whatever doubt may be entertained as to the ill effects 
of alum on the healthy stomach, none can exist as to its injurious 
influence in cases of dyspepsia." Lombard says: "There is no need 
of saying how much these different modes of falsification are injur- 
ious to the health, though they do not provoke fatal accidents." 

Dr. Gibbon says : "Its use in the manufacture of bread is injurious 
to health, and concurs, indirectly with other things, in increasing the 
mortality, especially of young children, the staple article of whose 
dietary is bread. The fatal diarrhoea of infants under three years 
of age may also have arisen from or been aggravated by this cause.** 

Dr. Dauglish says: "Its effect on the system is that of a tropical 






astriugent on tbe surface of the alimentary canal, producing consti- 
pation and deranging the procesg of absorption. But its action in 
neutralizing the efficacy of the digestive solvents is by far the moat 
important and unquestionable . . . and the consequence is that 
a large portion of the gluten and other valuable constituents of 
the flour are never properly dissolved, but pass through the alimen- 
tary canal without affording any nourishment whatever." 

Meyer says: "Alum exerts, especially in continued use, very in- 
jurious (constipating) effects on the body, and exactly this metiod 
of adulteration is one of the most dangerous, being carried on very 
often in the most refined way." Dr. Parkes says: "Looking, then, 
to the positive evidence, and the reasonablenesB of the evidence, it 
seems to me extremely likely that strong alumed bread does produce 
the injurious effects ascribed to it." Benoit says: "The habitual 
introduction of alum into the stomach of man, however slight it may 
be, must necessarily trouble the exercise of the functions of this 
organ, particularly in persons of a bilious or feeble constitution and 
constipated by temperaments, and esi«cially in individuals leading 
sedentary life. Such a fraud should, therefore, be severely repressed 
by the police." 

It is a notable fact that, in the whole course of my research on 
this subject, I was unable to find one scientific man who recommended 
the use of alum, in bread making. Such being the case, it is my 
opinion that any intelligent person cannot help but condemn such 
a fraud, especially as it is denounced by the leading scientific men 
of the world, such as Dumas, Chevalier, Ure. Benoit, Gibbon, Schlosa- 
berger, Parkes, Booth, Morfit, Pereira, Normandy, the late Baron 
Liebig, and many others. 

The introduction af alum as a substitute for cream of tartar in 
baking powders is a recent fraud on the public, and, strange to say, 
has been upheld by a few scientific men who, it would he supposed, 
in the face of losing a large fee, would condemn its introduction iu 
the strongest possible terms, but unfortunately, for lack of time to 
properly investigate the subject, or tempted by the fee, have been 
influenced away from the proper line *if action, which should be, not 
to see how near it is possible to poison a man and not do it, but 
rather how far it is possible to keep from poisoning him. 

When alum ia used alone in bread, it is partly decomposed into 
phosphate of alumina and basic sulphate of alumina ; this change is 
brought about by the soluble phosphates of the flour; there is also 
some unaltered alum left in the bread. In an alum baking powder, 
another change takes place, owing to the presence of bicarbonate 
of soda, and hydrate of alumina is formed, a very soluble modifica- 
tion of alumina, as compared to the phosphate, or basic sulphate; 
but only j'ust so much of the hydrate of alumina is formed, as there 
is bicarbonate of soda present in the powder to form it, and as the 
alum is always in excess, being the acid of the compound, there is 
also formed phosphate of alumina, basic sulphate of alumina, and 
Home alum is left unaltered in the bread. This was clearly demon- 
strated by Professor Morton in his ejtperiments. He found, by steep- 
ing a biscuit made with alum baking powder in water, that such 
water, when filtered, evaporated to dryness and ignited, and the resi- 
due dissolved in hydrochloric acid, and again evaporated, and then 



dissolved a second time, did contain a small quantity of alumina 
after the plio^Jiate of lime had heen separated out. I have found 
the same thing myself any number of time& This experiment shoi^t^ 
the presence of alum, as this is the only alumina salt present in the 
biscuit which could be soluble in water. 

From this it will be seen that just the same alumina salts are 
present in the baked productsy when an alum baking powder is used 
in baking, as when alum is used alone, with the addition of a far 
more soluble salt hydrate of alumina, and this in large quantities. 
It, therefore, naturally foUows as the simplest logical deduction^ that> 
whatever has been said against the use of alum used alone in bread, 
applies with all the more force to an alum baking powder. Because 
of the deccHnposition of the alum by the bicarbonate of soda, some 
scientific men have been induced to say ^Hhere was no alum in the 
baked product in which the powder was used,'' thus leading the public 
to believe by a trick in wording that the elements whi<^ comiMse 
the alum are driven oS in the process of baking, ^diile the truth of 
the matter is that every element which composes the alum remains in 
the baked product, which, if eaten, enter the stomach and are ah* 
sorbed by the blood, acting the same as ahun. 

This is not only my opinion, but it is the opinion of the leading 
scientific men of this country, such as Chandler, Barker* Johnson* 
Hays, Willard Parker, Alonzo Claik, Wm. A. Hammond, I^yland T. 
Brown, J. A. McCoikle and J. H. Raymond, of the Brooklyn Board 
of Health, and many others. 



THE EXPERIMEXTS OX DOGS 

It hardly seems necessary for any experiments on animals to decide 
a question of this nature so that the use of alum baking powders can 
be condemned, for a thoroui^ scientific inveatigation of the subject 
can lead to no other conclusion. Still, as Professor Patrick* of 
Missouri, conducted some elementary experiments on cats to sustain 
his position in stating that alum baking powders are not injurious to 
health, and as such experiments were interpreted by him favorably 
— althou^ I hope to show, and am quite positive I will* that his 
experiments are most detrimental to his views, and most favorable 
to the side which condemns the use of alum baking powders — I 
thought it advisable, in search of the truth, to conduct an exhaus- 
tive series of experiments on dogs* believing that such an investi- 
gation would meet with the approbation of the public. 

It was with difficulty I found a suitable place to conduct the ex- 
periments so that the animals would not disturb the neighborhood; 
but through the courtesy of the Commissioners of the Dock De|>art- 
ment, I secured a shed on their premises foot of Sixteenth Street and 
East River. This shed I had completely remodeled into a suitable 
house, having the dimensions of about 16x14x12 feet high. Six- 
teen stalls were made inside* having the dimensions of 3^j foet by 
2 feet by 254 feet. The bottom of each comiMirtment was tH^vt^nnl 
with straw, making a pleasant bed for the di^gs, I then scoured 10 
dogs from the pound, which wore all carefully examined to sce^ if 
they were in a perfect state of health. None but strong, healthy 



8 

■ 

dog8 were selected. The breed, age, food, color, and weight of every 
dog was carefully noted. Each dog was then consigned to a stall, 
and securely chained, and they all received a number, from one to 
sixteen. I commenced my experiments on the 9th of September, 
and finished December the 3d. My assistant was with the dogs from 
morning until night, and never left the animals without first securely 
bolting and locking the dog-house. No stranger was allowed to 
enter the house unaccompanied either by myself or by my assistant, 
and the dogs never received a mouthful of food or anything else 
from any one except my assistant and myself. 

I will now detail the result of my experiments: 



Breed of dog — Coach. 
Age of dog — 1 year. 
Health of dog — ^Perfect. 



Doa No. I 

Food of dog — Bread and crackers. 
Color of dog — Spotted black and white. 
Weight of dog — 35 lbs. 



To this dog on the morning of the 9th of September was given 
8 biscuits, at ten minutes past eight o'clock. The biscuits were made 
by myself as follows: 

1 quart sifted flour; 

20 teaspoons alum baking powder; 

2 cups of water; 

1 tablespoon of butter; 

22 biscuits made, weighing 27 ounces — time of baking, 20 minutes. 

At half -past eleven, just three hours and twenty minutes, the dog 
was taken very sick, vomiting profusely — ^his vim and brightness of 
eye had departed, and he trembled considerably in his limbs. 

At four o'clock, five more biscuits of the same nature were given, 
but he would not eat them. 

The next morning, eight more fresh biscuits were given him; he 
ate only a part of one. During the day previous he was quite loose 
in the bowels; but he had now become very constipated, and it was 
only with great effort and pain he was able to relieve himself for 
several days. 

On September 11th, as he would not eat the biscuits alone, they 
were mixed with meat; this he ate, but remained very dejected in 
spirits and extremely constipated. 

To dog No. V the same food was given. The description of the 
dog was as follows: 



Breed — Terrier. 
Age — Nine years. 
Health — ^Perfect. 



Food — Crackers. 
Color — Brindle. 
Weight— 30 lbs. 



At 8.16 on September 9th, 8 biscuits, made as described above, 
were given. At 12.16 the dog became very sick and vomited pro- 
fusely. At 4 P.M., five more biscuits were given him, but he would 



not eat. He was very constipated towards night. On the following 
morning eight biscuits were given him, which he ate in part during 
the day; in the afternoon he was very sick, vomiting at 4.30 and 
again at 5.45 p.m. 

^Experiments were next made, using only half the quantity used 
above of an alum baking powder. 

The biscuits were made as follows: 

1 quart sifted flour; 
10 teaspoons alum baking powder ; 
IH cups of water; 
1 tablespoon of butter. 
27 small biscuits, weight 25^ oz. 
Time of baking, eleven minutes. 

Three dogs were fed with biscuits thus made, with the following 
results : 



Breed of dog 

Age of dog 

Health 

Food 

Color I Black 

Weight * 16 lbs 



No. II 



Cur 

15 months. . 

Perfect 

Bread 



No. IV 

Spitz Cur. . . 

1 year 

Perfect 

Crackers. .. . 

Yellow 

10 lbs 



No. VI 

Shepherd. 
4 years. 
Perfect. 
Crackers. 
White. 
40 lbs. 



Eight biscuits were given to dogs Nos. II and VI in the morning; 
in the afternoon dog No. II was very loose in his bowels, and dog No. 
VI very constipated. Five more biscuits were given in the after- 
noon and eight more the following morning, part of which were eaten. 
Both the dogs then were extremely constipated and apparently quite 
sick, although they did not vomit. To dog No. IV, in perfect health, 
were then given three biscuits, which were eaten at 9 o'clock. At 
10.35 A.M., the dog became quite sick and vomited. In the afternoon 
and next morning more biscuits were given him, but he would not 
eat. 

This demonstrates that some animals are more susceptible to the 
action of poisonous substances than others. 

It now became necessary to know if the same effects would not be 
brought about by using the same quantities of cream of tartar i>owder. 
I therefore Conducted a series of experiments to arrive at this point. 
Three dogs were experimented on. The following is a description of 
the animals: 



Breed of dog 

Age of dog 

Health 

Color 

Weight 

lA 



No. IX 

Mongrel 

4 years 

Perfect 

Black and white 
20 lbs 



No. X 

m 

Mongrel 

10 years 

Perfect 

Black and white 
35 lbs 



No. XVII 

— t 

Terrier. 
2 years. 
Perfect. 
Black and tan. 
15 lbs. 



10 

The biscuits were composed as follows: 

1 quart sifted flour; 

20 teaspoons cream of tartar baking powder; 

2 cups of water ; 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Time of baking 20 minutes. 

26 small biscuits. Weight, 27 oz. 

The biscuits given to dog No. IX were twice as large— only 12 
being made instead of 26, therefore each dog was given as many bis- 
cuits as he would eat — ^without in any way affecting them. Their 
bowels were not in the least affected. Each -dog ate sixteen biscuits* 
the first day, eight in the morning and eight at night. Dog No. X 
did not eat but ten biscuits; the next day each dog ate the biscuits 
again with appetite. Dog No. XVlL was fed four days on the bis- 
cuits, and ate same with appetite, without showing any signs of 
sickness. 

These experiments clearly demonstrate that the salts left in the 
biscuit when a cream of tartar baking powder is used, are perfectly 
harmless; but when an alxun baking powder is used are very danger- 
ous, as in every case where dogs were fed on biscuits made with such 
powders, the dogs were made very sick, causing them to vomit pro- 
fusely, lose all energy, and show weakness in their limbs. 

The next series of experiments were to ascertain what effect would 
be produced by feeding dogs with hydrate of alumina mixed in with 
their food, as also phosphate of alumina. To two dogs, Nos. XV and 
XVI, hydrate of alumina was thus given. 

The following is a description of the dogs : 



Breed. . 

Age 

Health. 
Food... 
Color. . 
Weight 




No. XVI 



Mongrel. 

3 years. 

Perfect. 

Bread. 

White and black. 

20 lbs. 



The hydrate of alumina was prepared by Professor Schedler ; it was 
made by precipitating the alumina in alum by means of ammonia, 
and then thoroughly washing the same with water until the washings 
were perfectly free from traces of ammonia. The precipitate was 
then dried between blotting paper, and analyzed to ascertain the per- 
centage of water it contained. The following is an analysis of the 
same: 

Hydrate of alumina 12.48 per cent. 

Abnormal water 87.52 



100.00 



a 



a 



From this analysis it will be seen that 1 oz. of the precipitate is 
really only % oz. of hydrate of alimiina, or 54^ grains. To dog No. 
XVI on the 13th of September was given 1 oz. of precipitated hy- 



11 

drate of ahnnina (54^ grains Ab O3. 3 H2 O) mixed with meat, at 
a quarter past eight in the morning. At 12.30 the dog became quite 
sick, and vomited; at ten minutes of six in the afternoon % os. (109.2 
grains) more of hydrate of alumina in meat was given to the dog, and 
at twenty minutes past six he was again taken quite sick, and 
vomited; he vomited also considerable during the night, the meat 
being vomited up undigested. The next morning % oz. (109.2 
grains) more of hydrate of alumina mixed with meat was given to 
the dog, and he vomited a short time afterwards; he was very con- 
stipated, his last stool being quite black. At three o'clock lQ9J2i 
(AI3 Os. 3 Hi O) grains more were given him, and he was again 
taken sick, vomiting, and showing great weakness in his limbs. The 
next day at three o'clock he was given }i oz. more of hydrate of alu- 
mina mixed with meat, when he was taken extremely sick, vomiting 
several times, and showing great weakness in his limbs and loss of 
ambition, the bri^tness of eye having disappeared; he vomited dur- 
ing the ni^t, and could not be induced to eat any more the next 
day or the da y fol lowing. 

To dog No. XV was given H oz. (16354 grains) of hydrate of alu- 
*mina mixed with meat. The dog was taken very sick in about two 
hours, and vomited just two hours and fifty minutes afterwards; he 
also vomited profusely during the night. At 4.30 the next day H oz. 
(218 grains) of hydrate of alumina mixed with meat was given the 
dog, but he ate only about one-half of it. He was taken very sick a 
short time afterwards, vomiting, and showing great weakness and 
restlessness. He would not eat any more after that day. It may be 
well to state here that hydrate of alumina is almost tasteless, and 
it was for this reason the dogs ate it as well as they did when mixed 
with meat. To two other dogs hydrate of alumina was given only 
once, and in each case the dogs were made sick, and vomited. 

To dog No. IX was given phosphate of alumina mixed with meat. 
The following is a description of the animal: 

Breed of dog — Mongrel. 
Age— 4 years. 
Health— Perfect. 
Food — Bread. 
Color — Black and white. 
Weight— 20 lbs. 

On September 18th, in the morning, 3 oz. of precipitated phosphate 
of alumina) containing 75 per cent, of water, dried between blotting 
paper) was mixed with meat and given to the dog. This was eaten 
during the day, but the dog did not vomit, although he was evidently 
quite sick. The next morning 2 oz. more of the precipitated phos- 
phate of alumina mixed with meat was given him, which was all 
eaten, and although the dog did not vomit, he was quite sick, showing 
less life than usual and his eye not being as bright. 

From this last experiment it was clearly shown that the alimiina in 
bisctiits made with an alum baking powder must be, to a very great 
extent, in the condition of hydrate of alumina — as the phosphate, al- 
though causing the animal to feel unwell, did not make him vomit. 
In every case, as has been stated before, when biscuits were given to 
a dog made with less than 7 times the quantity of an alum baking 



12 

powder usually employed, the dog vomited profusely, and was made 
very sick, trembling in his knees ; and this was the ease when hydrate 
of alumina was given, even in sudi small quantities as ^th of an 
ounce, or 64J^ grains. Experiments were then made to see if the 
action of 'hydrate of alumina in any way differed from the action of 
alum itself. The following is a description of the dogs employed: 



Breed. . 

Age. . . 

Health. 

Food.. 

Color.. 

Weight 



No. XIII 

Terrier 

2 years 

Perfect 

Bread 

Black and tan 
20 lbs 



No. XIV 



Terrier. 
2 years. 
Perfect. 
Bread. 
Tan. 
20 lbs. 



To dog No. XIII was given 2 oz. of burnt potash alum mixed with 
meat, at 8.15 in the morning. The dog ate only the meat, leaving the 
alum untouched, with the exception of what adhered to the meat, 
which was much less than Va of an ounce. At 9.30 he was very sick, 
trembling in his limbs, losing all vim and brightness of eye, and vom- 
ited. At 9.45 he vomited again. The next day some fresh meat was 
mixed in with the alum; when he ate part of the meat he was made 
very sick again, and vomited considerably. He would not eat any 
more after this. 

To dog No. XIV 1 oz. of ammonia alum was mixed with meat, and 
fed. At 8.15 only about % oz. was eaten. At 9.45 he was made very 
sick, the same as ^dog XIII, and vomited ; he vomited again at 9.45 
and again at 9.55, and was a very sick dog, showing no inclination to 
eat or play; his brightness of eye had entirely disappeared. To two 
other dogs alum was given with the same results. From these exp^i- 
ments it will clearly be seen that hydrate of alumina acts in the same 
manner as alum, causing the animal to vomit profusely, show great 
weakness in the limbs, and loss of ambition. 

The next experiments conducted were to ascertain what effect the 
presence of alum, hydrate of alumina, phosphate of alumina and 
basic sulphate of alumina had on the solvent power of the gastric 
juice. It was necessary therefore to procure some gastric juice for 
experiment. I therefore sent several dogs to Professor «!. W. S. 
Arnold, who inserted a canula in each of them. When the dogs were 
in a perfectly healthy condition. Professor Arnold sent me some gas- 
tric juice, which was produced by tickling the lining of the stomach 
of the dogs with a feather or glass rod, which caused the gastric juice 
to flow out of the fistula into a receptacle placed underneath the dog 
to receive it. This and other methods were used to excite the flow 
of thfe secretion. 

In conducting the experiments with the gastric juice, I was greatly 
assisted by the friendly services of Professor Robert Schedler. Pour 
samples of gastric juice were received. The following are the experi- 
ments conducted with the same. 

Sample No, 1. — Obtained by irritating the lining of the stomach 
with a glass tube — ^Pure and free from food. The acid was deter- 



13 

mined in this sample, and found to be per cent. 0.13388 hydrochloric 
acid. 

Sample No. 2. — Boiled ox heart was fed to the dog, which caused 
a flow of gastric juice, which was afterward drawn off. The acid in 
this sample was only 0.006083 per cent, hydrochloric acid. 

Sample No. 3. — In three grammes of this juice the acid was deter- 
mined and found to be 0.21268 i)er cent, hydrochloric acid. 

Experiments were then made with this sample as follows: 

To three granmies of juice was added .0403 gramme of fibrine,* and 
the mixture was kept at the temperature of 95-100° F. for half an 
hour, when all the fibrine was dissolved. 

To three granunes more of the juice were added 0.5 gramme of hy- 
drate of alumina (precipitated and dried between blotting paper), and 
then 0.0403 gramme of fibrine was added. The mixture was stirred 
and kept at the temperature of 96-100° F. for two hours, and of 
70-80° F. for twenty-three hours. Digestion of the fibrine took place 
at the start, but was soon arrested, only one-quarter of the fibrine 
being dissolved. 

To three grammes more of the juice were added .500 gramme of 
alum, and then .0403 gramme of fibrine, and this was treated the 
same as in the last experiment. In this case about three-quarters of 
the fibrine was dissolved at the start, and then further digestion was 
entirely checked, although it remained in contact twenty-three hours. 

These three experiments are very valuable, as fibrine is so readily 
dissolved. They show that both aluminic hydrate and aliun can 
check the digestion of such an easily digested substance as fibrine. 
They show therefore how dangerous it is to introduce these two salts 
into our stomachs, if we do not wish to excite indigestion and dys- 
pepsia. 

Three experiments were then conducted with prepared boiled white 
of egg. To three grammes of gastric juice was added .25 gramme 
of albumen, and the juice was kept at 95-100° for two hours, when 
half of the egg was dissolved. Three grammes more of juice were 
then added, when in two hours all the egg was dissolved. This 
showed that 100 grammes of gastric juice would dissolve 4.16 grammes 
of -albumen. Lehmann claims it will dissolve 5 grammes, and Schmidt 
3.95 grammes, although the latter authority states it may dissolve 
more. 

To three grammes more of gastric juice were added .25 granune 
of precipitated hydrate of alumina (really only .031 gramme 
AI2O3.3H2O), and then .25 gramme albumen, the mixture was kept 
at the temperature of 95-100° F. for two hours, and in contact fifteen 
hours, and not a particle of the egg was dissolved. 

To three grammes more of the same juice were added .25 gramme of 
alum, and then .25 gramme of albumen, and this was likewise treated ; 
but after fifteen hours' contact not a particle of the albiunen was dis- 
solved. These experiments were duplicated. 

The albumen used in the experiments was the boiled white of egg; 
it was first macerated in a mortar with pure water, then dipped in a 
solution of 1 drop of hydrochloric acid to 2400 drops of water ; it was 

* The fibrine was prepared by Prof. Arnold from the blood of a dog. 



14 

afterwards macerated again in the mortar with pure water, then dried 
between filter paper and weighed. 

The first three experiments demonstrate beyond a shadow of a 
doubt that both hydrate of alumina and alum check the digestive 
properties of the gastric juice, and render it incapable of digesting 
even the most digestible substances; and the last three experiments 
demonstrate that the digestive power of the gastric juice is entirely 
destroyed by hydrate of alumina and alum, so far as dissolving the 
more indigestible substances, such as the boiled white of egg. 

The alumina renders the pepsin entirely inactive, by combining with 
it as organic matter and probably converting it into a species of 
leather, and in the stomach the lining membrane and cells are prob- 
ably thus affected, and thereby destroyed or rendered incapable of per- 
forming their normal functions. 

Experiments were next made with phosphate of alumina and basic 
sulphate of alumina. 

To three grammes of a fresh sample of gastric juice were added 
0.1 gramme of precipitated hydrate of alumina and 0.1 gramme of 
boiled white of egg. 

To three grammes more of the gastric juice were added 0.1 grannne 
of precipitated hydrate of alumina and 0.1 gramme of boiled white of 
egg. 

These two mixtures were kept between 95° F. and 100° F. for two 
hours, and in contact twenty-four hours, and not a particle of the 
albumen was dissolved in either case. These experiments were 
duplicated with fresh gastric juice from another dog, with the 
same results. They show that all alumina salts interfere with the 
powers of digestion, having the property of rendering the pepsin 
inactive. 

My next experiments were to ascertain whether alumina could be 
found in the various organs of the body if a dog was fed with hydrate 
of alumina. I therefore secured a dog from Professor Arnold, of 
which the following is a description: 

. Breed of dog — Terrier. 
Color — ^Black and tan. 
Age — VA years. 
Weight— 20 lbs. 

This dog had a gastric fistula through which the hydrate of alu- 
mina suspended in a water solution was introduced direct into the 
stomach by means of an ordinary syringe. 

On the 2l8t of October, at 8.30 a.m., 5 oz. of precipitated hydrate of 
alumina and 2 oz. of meat were mixed together and given to the dog. 
He ate only one-third of the mixture; at 11.36 his bowels were very 
loose, and at 12.40 he vomited; at 12.56 he vomited profusely again, 
the meat coming up undigested. 

At 6 P.M. -^ of an ounce of hydrate of alumina, suspended in solu- 
tion, was injected directly into the stomach. The dog vomited during 
the night. The next morning at 9.26 a.m., one ounce of hydrate of 
alumina was injected into the stomach and the dog was given meat 
to eat. He vomited at 1.30 p.m. and was very constipated; vomited 
at 2 P.M., and again at 2.15 p.m. At 3 o'clock one ounce more of the 



15 

hydrate of alumina was injected; at 5 p.m. he vomited; he also vom- 
ited during the night and was very constipated. At 8.45 the next 
morning about one ounce more of the hydrate of alumina was in- 
jected; he vomited at 11.45 and again at 12.55. At 4.55 p.m., % ounce 
more of hydrate was injected, the dog vomiting during ^e night. 
The dog now was so completely under the influence of the hydrate of 
alumina that I fully believe he would have died if any more alumina 
was injected. He was a very sick dog, trembling in his knees when 
he stood up and wanting all ambition and vim. His eye was dull, 
all the brightness had departed. On the next morning, at 8 o'clock, I 
killed the dog, collected some of his blood and took his liver for analy- 
sis. I separated from the blood by analysis a considerable quantity 
of alumina, as also from the liver. The silica and phosphate of lime 
were first removed before the aliunina was precipitated. 

My next experiment was on a black and tan dog in Professor Ar- 
nold's laboratory. I supplied Professor Arnold with freshly precipi- 
tated hydrate of aliunina, and he fed the animal with the same for 
four days, when the dog was killed. I received the kidney, heart and 
blood for analysis, in all of which I separated out alumina in large 
•quantities. Professor Arnold examined the stomach and intestiiud 
canal, and also analyzed the spleen and liver. His report is given 
below. 

The next dog experimented on was also a black and tan. To this 
dog Professor Arnold fed precipitated phosphate of alumina (con- 
taining 75 per cent, of water), mixed with meat. On killing the dog, 
I took the spleen and liver for analysis, and separated out large quan- 
tities of alumina from them. Professor Arnold examined the stom- 
ach, etc., and also analyzed the heart. 

Report of Prof. J. W. S. Arnold : 

University of the City of New York, 
Medical Department, 410 East Twenty-Sixth St., 

New York, Dec. 12, 1879. 

• 

This is to certify that I have supplied Dr. Henry A. Mott with a 
number of samples of gastric juice from the dog, the juice being pure 
and in the normal condition. 

I have also made a nimiber of gastric flstulse in dogs: some of the 
animals I delivered to Dr. Mott, from others I obtained the juice with 
which I supplied him. 

I fed a dog upon meat mixed with precipitated hydrate of alumina 
(containing much water) ; the amount of this hydrate of alumina 
given the dog was twelve ounces. I killed the animal, and examined 
the viscera. The duodenum was highly inflamed in its upper por- 
tion. The spleen and liver, upon analysis, showed the presence of a 
considerable quantity of alumina. The heart, kidneys, and samples 
of the blood from the animal were given to Dr. Mott for analysis. 

I fed another dog with precipitated phosphate of aliunina (contain- 
ing much water), mixed with meat, to the amount of five ounces of 
this phosphate of aliunina. Upon killing the animal, both the stom- 
ach and duodenum were found very much congested. Upon testing, 
the heart showed the presence of considerable alumina in its tissues. 



16 

Dr. Mott received portions of liver and spleen for analysis. 

I also prepared microscopical slides of a dog's stomach in a healthy- 
condition, and of the stomach of the dog fed with precipitated phos- 
phate of alumina in a congested condition. These I sent to Dr. Mott^ 

J. W. S. Arnold, A.M., M.D., 
Prof. Physiology and Histology, Med. Dep't University of N. Y, 

From these elaborate experiments it will be seen that both hydrate 
of alumina and phosphate of alumina are very injurious substances 
to introduce into the stomach, as these are sure to produce acute in- 
ilammation. 

It may be advisable to say a few words with respect to some experi- 
ments conducted by Prof. Patrick, of Kansas, on cats, with an alum 
baking powder. 

Some biscuits were made with 3 teaspoons of an alum baking pow^ 
der to 1 pint of flour, equal to six teaspoons to one quart of flour ; 6^ 
biscuits were baked in a batch, and from 1 to VA were fed to a cat. 
After digestion had gone on a certain length of time (from 20 min- 
utes to 2H hours), varying in the different subjects, the cat was killed, 
and the entire contents, not only of the stomach, but of the small 
intestines also, were examined for dissolved alumina. The mass was^ 
digested in water, filtered, evaporated, and ignited to destroy -organic 
matter; extracting with strong acids, filtering, and finallb'' adding 
ammonia hydrate. "In every case," says Prof. Patrick, "a large 
amount of sodium sulphate was found (in solution as was expected), 
and also a certain amount of hydrate of almnina undissolved." What 
the Professor means by "a certain amount of hydrate of alumina un- 
dissolved," it is difficult to ascertain. Surely if it was undissolved he 
might have dissolved it by the aid of a little heat and a little more acid. 

The truth of the matter is, if the filtered solution contained any 
alimiina, it was combined with the organic matter. On ignition, the 
alumina would be rendered insoluble. If not insoluble, where did the 
insoluble alimiina obtained come from? 

Perhaps he obtained it on the filter. This would clearly show that 
it was still in the stomach, not having been as yet absorbed. If this 
was not the case, and no alumina was found in solution in the diges- 
tive fluids, then the alumina must have been absorbed into the system^ 
for it certainly entered the stomach through the biscuits. 

Prof. Patrick further states: "Now if bread is carelessly mixed 
with an insufficient amount of water, part of the flour (and with it 
the powder) remains nearly or quite dry; and after baking, such bread 
would contain a certain small amount of alum." This is certainly a 
very fair admission. We all know that bread is very carelessly mixed 
at times, as there are few who make good bread. Patrick's experiments 
actually prove this to be the case. He says: "To insure the entire 
absence of alum in the bread, the mixing must be done with plenty 
of water; and to effect this I would suggest (although I do not con- 
sider it an absolute necessity) that the batter, with the powder added, 
be made rather thin at first, and then thickened by addition of more 
flour without powder." In other words. Prof. Patrick would upset 
the whole system of bread-making so as to insure the use of an alum 
baking powder with safety (!). 



17 

It is certain a few intelligent cooks might be persuaded to adopt 
this new method, but the majority could not be persuaded to do so; 
or if they did, they would only do so once or twice, and then fall back 
in their old ways, which would result in having alum in the bread. 

I think we can safely discard Prof. Patrick's experiments as prov- 
ing anything in favor of alum baking powders, for in my opinion 
they only strengthen the view I have always taken, and which my 
elaborate experiments have conclusively demonstrated, that alum 
baking powders are most injurious to health. 

It has never been asserted by me that a person eating one biscuit 
made with an alum baking powder would suffer from the alumina 
salts present in it; but it is certain that persons continually eating 
biscuits made with an alum powder will suffer from its poisonous 
effects, as the alumina salts, instead of passing out of the system, 
accumulate in the various organs, interfering with their proper func- 
tions. 

It must not be inferred from what has just been said that the 
amount of alumina salts present in a biscuit is so very smalL The 
following experiment will throw some light on this subject: 

Sifted flour taken (1 quart) 155^ oz. 

Alum baking powder (2 teasx)oons) H oz. 

Lard IJi oz. 

Milk lOH oz. 



Weight of dough 2S}i oz. 

Weight of (hot) biscuit 24J4 oz. 

Loss in balang 3^ oz. 

Weight of biscuit (cold) 23^ oz. 

Loss on cooling 1}4 oz. 

The baking took 15 minutes. The biscuits were heavy. Another 
experiment was conducted, using 3 teaspoons of an alum baking pov.- 
der. The biscuits produced were quite light, showing that three tea- 
spoons of the powder are necessary. 

2 teaspoons of alum powder weighed 234 grains. 

3 " " " " 361 " 

The baking powder contained about 30 per cent, of burnt alum. 

Therefore there was introduced into 2454 oz. of biscuit 106.3 grains 
of burnt alimi, or what is equivalent to 194.21 grains of common 
alum. 

1 lb. of biscuits contained alumina salts, if calculated as common 
alum (when 3 teaspoons of an alum powder is used), equivalent to 
163 grains. 

If the alumina in biscuit be calculated as hydrate of alumina, then 
one pound of biscuit would contain over 64 grains. 

One biscuit would contain 3 grains of hydrate of alumina. A per- 
son would eat about four of these biscuits at a meal, and would there- 
fore introduce into his stomach 12 grains of hydrate of alumina. 
IB 



THE ACTION OF ALUimiUM AND BERYLLIUM 

ON THE ANIMAL ORGANISM 



BY 

PAUL SIEM 



UniTersity Dorpat, 1886. Reported by B. Robert, Schmidt's 
Jahrbucher d. gesammt. Med., Vol. OOXI. 1886. 

ALUMINIUM 

Page 128. Actual pharmacological experiments on aluminium have 
not been made heretofore. A few statements, made by Orfila (1843), 
Mitscherlich (1840), Taylor (1863), Hasselt (1862) and Ricquet 
(1873), show that large doses of alum induced gastro-enteritis with 
fatal results in man and animals. Siem undertook the study of this 
heretofore so little known metal under the direction of Hans Meyer. 

On accoimt of the reasons given by the students of Schmiedeberg, 
he employed the organic double salts of the metal. The double 
sodium salts with tartaric and citric acid employed in the first experi- 
ments were prepared in the following way: Sulphate of aluminium 
was dissolved in distilled water and precipitated with ammonium, and 
aluminium hydrate was collected on a filter and washed with boiling 
water until all traces of sulphuric acid disappeared. The pure alu- 
miniimi hydrate was dissolved in the least possible amount of con- 
centrated tartaric or citric acid, filtered and neutralized with sodium 
hydrate. 

The clear solution has a light yellow color, does not coagulate blood 
serum and contains 2 per cent, of the oxide of aluminium. 

The slight solubility of aluminium hydrate in these acids necessi- 
tates very large amounts of tartaric and citric acid (about 30 per 
cent, of lie sodium salt). It had already been shown by Kobert that 
these salts have an effect on frogs and consequently they would not be 
suitable for the experiments. 

Steinfeld has shown that large doses of the tartarate and citrate of 
sodium (from .2 to .6 gramme) cause in frogs after a short time 
nerve and muscle paralysis, followed by death. Meyer has also shown 
that smaller amounts of these salts cause disturbances in control 
animals. 

In consequence of the unsuitability of these compounds for experi- 

18 



19 

ments on froga, Siem prepared a double lactate. By preliminary 
experiments witJi the lactate of sodium it was shown that dosea of 
from .06 to .1 gramme of this salt have do effect upon frogs, with the 
exception of a local irritation following the injection and lasting onlj 
from one to two minutes. 

With still larger dosea (from .3 to -4 gramme) there resulted, 
witiin one hour after the injection, a num-bneas of the animals, so 
that when placed on their backs, they remained in this position for a 
long time. However, there was no fabrillar tremor of the skeleton 
muaclea observable after the lactate of sodium, as had been the case 
with the use of the tartaratc and citrate. In about half the animals 
treated with these large doses, death resulted after a few hours from 
general paralysis; the other half of the animals recovered quickly and 
on the foUowing day aeemed to be perfectly normal. 

Meyer succeeded in preparing a beautifully crystalline double lac- 
tate of the following composition r 



Al2 



{Ca Hb 03)a 
(Cs H4 Na 03)a 



^f This salt is prepared by treating carbonate of barium with an 
excess of lactic acid. The neutral filtrate, consisting of barium 
lactate, is precipitated with sulphate of aluminium. On concen' 
trating the acid filtrate t^he lactate of aluminium crystallizes. These 
crystals are dissolved in sodium hydrate, exactly neutralized and con- 
centrated to crystallization. The crystals dried over sulphuric acid 
contain 15.2 of Ala O3. 

All the experiments on frogs were made with this crystalline prep- 
aration, and the dose is figured on the amount of the oxide of 
aluminium. 

The experiments show that both kinds of frogs (rana esculenta and 
temporarja) are affected in the same manner by aluminium. For 
aniraals of medium sise dosea of from .03 to .03 of a gramme of the 
oxide of aluminium caused death in within 10 to 24 hours. In a few 
cases death did not result until after some days. 

The general effects may be described in brief as follows; Imme- 
diately after injection the animal becomes very restless. It stretches 
out its hind legs, but after a few minutes it becomes quiet. In the 
course of the next 4 to 6 hours, as a rule, there is nothing especially 
observable in the behavior of the animal, except that it remains 
motionless for hours at a time, but when touched it jumps like a 
normal animal. Gradually, however, movementa become slower. 
The frc^ stretches itself out and lies flat on its abdomen with closed 
eyes; but when placed on its back at this stage, it speedily regains its 
normal position. Irritation of the skin at this time with acetic acid 
is followed only by feeble reflex movements or is wholly without 
effect. However, irritation of the cord with an induced current 
causes powerful tet«nus of the posterior extremities. A few hours 
later, if the animal be placed upon its back, it remains in this posi- 
tion. The reflex excitability is speedily lost and injections of stiych- 
nine are without eflfect. The respiration is wholly absent or very infre- 
quent and irregular, but the heart beats powerfully and rhythmically- 
Even at this stage, irritation with an induced current catisea severe 



20 

tetanus of the posterior extremities. In a few instances this does not 
happen, but the peripheral nerves and muscles still respond, and, in 
fact, this continues to be the case several hours after death. Gradu- 
ally the heart increases in frequency and energy and finally it stops 
in diastole; after it has stopped, tactile irritation will still cause a 
few contractions. 

The action of the auricles ordinarily continues for some hours after 
the ventricles have stopped. 

From these phenomena, it is evident we have to do with a general 
paralysis of the central nervous system, which is due to the direct 
paralytic action of the aliuninium on the ganglia of the brain and 
cord. Even when there is complete loss of reflex excitability the 
heart remains unchanged and the muscles and peripheral nerves are 
normally excitable. 

The organs of circulation are not affected by aluminium and the 
heart is the last to die. 

From the fact that atropine is without action on the heart arrested 
in diastole, while mechanical irritation still causes marked contrac- 
tion, it is concluded that there is paralysis of heart ganglia, while the 
heart muscles themselves are not affected. 

The experiments on warm-blooded animals were made with cats, 
dogs and rabbits. 

There is no marked difference in susceptibility to the poison among 
these animals. From a large series of experiments the fatal doses per 
kilogram of body weight are found to be as follow: 

For rabbits, about .3 gramme of AI2 O3. 
For dogs, about .25 gramme. 
For cats, from .26 to .28 gramme. 

These averages were obtained from those experiments in which small 
doses were used in the beginning and gradually increased in the 
course of from two to three weeks. On the other hand, if larger 
doses were given in the beginning, or if a single large dose was given, 
the fatal average is smaller, and is for cats about .16 gramme per 
kilogram. Before detailing these experiments it may be remarked 
that with mammals the double tartarate was invariably used, because 
the tartarate of sodium is without effect upon these animals. In 
most of the exi)eriments the aluminium was administered by sub- 
cutaneous injection. 

During the first days, in cases in which the experiments were contin- 
ued from 3 to 4 weeks, the animals showed no abnormality. The initial 
symptoms of the action of the poison generally appear from the third 
to the fifth day and were referable to the digestive organs. In some 
instances these disturbances were so great as to lead to complete re- 
fusal of food. Constipation was obstinate, so that in some cases 
within a space of ^ye days there would be only one defecation. The 
small stool passed was very hard and of dark color. In many in- 
stances just before death diarrhoea appeared. The discharges were 
thin, watery and contained bits of undigested food. 

Simultaneously with the above-mentioned phenomena, there was 
marked emaciation of the muscles of the skeleton and a rapidly pro- 
gressive general emaciation. This sometimes continued until the 



21 

animal waa a mere BkeleU)n. The emaciation is especially marked 

In connectioQ witli these disturbances of the digestive organa there 
were also evideneea of psychic depresaion. The animals sit in their 
cages without observing their surroundings, and when compelled to 
move, their movements are uncertain and apparently performed with 
diifieulty. 

Generally after this condition has coutinued for a few days, there 
is repeated vomiting of mucous substances colored with bile. The 
apathy increases ; the auimals remain for a few hours at a time mo- 
tionless, in sitting posture with drooping beads. When the animals 
are compelled to stand and made to move tbey show a peculiar con- 
dition. When a leg ia raised to step the extended extremity showa 
marked tremor. Finally the tremulous foot reaches the floor and the 
aniuial moves forward and sideways. In other cases, especially in 
dogs, there was noticeable a general weakness and incomplete pa- 
ralysis of the posterior extremities. 

Frequently there was a general tremor or convulsive movement 
noticeable in the head or in the extremities. Gradually, there seems 
to be a complete loss of sensation. The Bensorium is even in this 
stage tolerably free, for the animals attempt to reach the dishes of 
milk placed near them. On doing so, they are able to bring their 
mouth in contact with the fluid, but apparently unable to lap it. The 
tongue lies motionless on the floor of the mouth or shows occasional 
fibrillar twitcbings. Pieces of meat carried behind the tongue may 
be swallowed. In artificial feeding by means of a tube, it was evident 
in some cases that there was a complete amesthesia of the gums and of 
the posterior pharyngeal wall. Usually there is marked salivation. The 
animal aits with drooping under jaw, from which the saliva flows, 
because he is not able to swallow it. Sometimes the saliva is bloody. 
In these cases small ulcers will be found in the mouth. 

At the end of the third or the beginning of the fourth week the 
weakness of the animal reaches its maximum. The animal lies on its 
side in a soporific condition, and is able to manifest only the slightest 
movements. The temperature gradually sinks under the normal, and 
in one it was as low as 32 degrees (0.). 

Generally death comes on without marked disturbances, while in 
other cases there are marked disturbances of respiration. The re- 
spiratory movements are shallow and irregular and rales are heard : 
in consequence of this, death in these cases is often accompanied or 
preceded by clonic convulsions. 

The amount of the urine during the whole of the time of the ex- 
periment is small ; albumin is not constantly present. 

In animals poisoned with a single large dose, the first symptoms 
appear within from 5 to 10 hours after the injection. The general 
picture of the poisoning is analotrous to that already described. 

Under the pathological anatomical changes found we may mention 
the following; The mucous membrane of the stomach and small in- 
testines in all cases show slight hypenemia and swelling. This con- 
dition, howerer, never reaches that of a powerful tosic gastro-enter- 
itia such as is produced in poisoning with beryllium. Small ulcers 
are found here and there, especially in the mucous membrane of the 
^^atpmach. The large intestine shows no marked abnormality. The 



22 

kidneys are unusually rich in blood and intensely red; in some cases 
the cortical substance was markedly fatty, of yellowish color and 
showed some pin-head blood extravasations. The liver is also very 
dark red. The substance in the liver is soft. 

Pieces of the liver and of the kidneys were placed in osmic acid 
(1 per cent.) and examined with a microscope on the following day. 

AH the liver cells showed imif orm, finely granular fatty degener- 
ation. There are also numerous dark points which seldom coalesce 
to form large drops. In fresh samples these spots are glistening. 
Fatty degeneration was found in the kidneys, but this is sometimes 
physiologically observed. 

Pieces of the liver and of the kidneys which were placed in 
Mueller's fluid, then hardened in alcohol, showed in the kidneys dis- 
tended vessels both in the cortex and in the parenchyma, but espe- 
cially in the glomeruli. In the uriniferous tubules the ends of the 
tubuli contorti showed characteristic changes in the epithelium. 
These cells were glistening and swollen. The nuclei (even after 
staining with hematoxylin) were undiscemible. Inside the tubes 
were found hyaline balls or lumps, which apparently consist of epi- 
thelial cells. In other places the contents of the tubules consist of 
granular material. Some of the tubules contained hyaline cylinders, 
which filled the tubes. No changes could be found in the connective 
tissue. 

From the above it is evident that aluminium causes a parenchy- 
matous nephritis. The heart was always soft and filled with dark 
blood. 



THE DIGESTIBILITY OF CERTAIN VARIETIES OF 

BREAD: AN EXPERIMENTAL STUDY 

OF THE ALUM QUESTION 

BY 

R. F. RUHM, B.A., M.D. 



Transactions Boyal Soc. Canada, 1887, Sec. 8. 

Page 61. In the digestion of bread, all the three most important diges- 
tive juices of the body may take part, viz., the saliva, the gastric, and 
the pancreatic juices. The first being only amylolytic, acts solely on 
the starch; the second being only proteolytic, affects the fibrin and 
gluten; in tryptic digestion there is both an amylolytic and a pro- 
teolytic action. While all three stages of digestion have been studied, 
the relative digestibility of the different forms of bread has been 
studied chiefly with reference to salivary and tryptic digestion. 

The experiments made may be arranged into three divisions, viz.: 

A — Experiments on the digestion of breads made with different 
baking powders. 

B — The influence of three baking powders on the digestion of 
known quantities of certain simple substances, such as starch, fibrin, 
and gluten. 

C — The influence of alum and of some salts formed during the 
decomposition of baking powders on the digestion of starch, fibrin, 
«tc. 



The Relative Digestebilitt op Some Varieties of Bread 

The following varieties of bread were used in these experiments: 
(1) Yeast bread, (2) Bread made with tartaric acid baking powder, 
(3) Bread made with a phosphate powder, (4) Bread made with two 
varieties of alum powder, (5) Unleavened bread, i. e., plain flour and 
water. The yeast bread, or the unleavened bread, was taken as a 
standard, all the experiments being strictly comparative. In each 
series the same flour, used to prepare the bread made with the baking 
powders, was employed to make the standard bread. In each case, 
also, the directions given for the use of the powder were strictly fol- 
lowed and the loaves were made as nearly as possible of the same size. 

23 



24 

Method. — In every experiment, unless otherwise noted, two 
grammes of the crumb were taken. This quantity in a few eases 
includes the natural moisture of the bread, but usually it was dried 
at 100° C, and reduced to powder before weighing to eliminate the 
error of variation in moisture. 

The digestions were all carried on in a carefully regulated incu- 
bator at a constant temi)erature of 40° C, and the relative digesti- 
bility of the breads was determined either by weighing the dried 
undigested residues after an hour or two, or by determining the 
quantity of dextrose formed by the amylolytic ferments under simi- 
lar conditions. The ferments used were obtained as follows: A 
cold glycerine extract of pig's stomach yielded the pepsin, the tryp- 
sin was prepared from fresh dog's pancreas by the method recom- 
mended by Dr. Cranston Charles of St. Thomas Hospital,* and the 
ptyalin was from fresh mixed human saliva diluted to ten volumes 
and filtered. 



Series I. — The Digestibility of Breads made with Alum Baking 
Powder compared with that of Yeast Bread made from 
the same Flour. Peptic Digestion 

Table 1. — ^Peptic Digestion 





Bbsidubs 


• 


Avexage 
Residue 
in gnu. 


Quantitv 
digested 
in grm. 


Pro]K>rtion. 




a. 


h. 


c. 


Veast Bread 

A. B. P. do 


•627 
•701 


•592 
•686 


•601 
•675 


•606 

•688 


•594 
-512 


100-0 
86^1 



The influence of the baking powder salts on the proteolytic action 
of x)epsin was tested by taking two grammes of the crumb of each 
bread with its nattiral moisture. To this, in a 70 c. c. beaker, were 
added 5 c. c. of the glycerine extract, and 45 c. c. of 0.26 p. c. solu^ 
tion of hydrochloric acid. The relative digestion was determined 
by weighing the undigested residue dried at 100° C, after two hours'" 
digestion at 40° C. The residues a, h, and c, are results from breads, 
made with different flour by different persons, using the same yeast 
and baking powder. 

The breads were found to contain 40 p. c. of water, so the calcula- 
tions are made for 1.2 grammes of dried bread. 

Table 2. — ^Peptic Digestion 



« 


Residues. 


Average 
Residue 
in grm. 


Quantitv 
digested 
in grm. 


Proportion. 




a. 


h. 


c. 


Yeast Bread 

A. B. P. do 


1-058 
1-321 


1-072 
1-337 


1-039 
1-364 


1-056 
1-340 


-944 
•660 


100.0 
69^9 



Charles's Physiological and Pathological Ohemistry, ed. 1885, p. 169. 



25 

Here two grammes of each bread were taken, after drying it to 
constant weight at 100° C, and reducing to fine powder. Other con- 
ditions were the same as Table J. 



Series II. — The Digestibility of Breads made with Alum and 

other Baking Powders compared with that of Breads 

made with Yea^t or of Plain Unleavened Bread, 

Pancreatic (Tryptic) Digestion 

Here, as in Series I, two grammes of bread were taken in each 
case, either dry or with natural moisture. To this 2 c. c. of the 
extract of pancreas above mentioned were added, and the whole made 
up to 50 c. c. with a 1 p. c. solution of sodium carbonate. The full 
action of the pancreatin was compared by v eighing the dried resi- 
dues, while the amylolytic action was determined by comparing the 
quantity of dextrine formed. 



Table 1. — ^Pancreatic Digestion 



1 

Average of two 
experiments. 


Residue 
in grm. 


Qnantitv 
digested 
in grm. 


Proportion. 


Yeast Bread 


•25 
•63 


•97 
•57 


100-0 




58-7 







Fresh breads were used in these experiments which at the time 
averaged the following quantities of water : Yeast bread, 39.1 p. c. ; 
that with alum baking powder, 40 p. c. So the calculations in the 
above table are made from 1.22 graromes and 1.20 grammes respec- 
tively of dry bread. 



Table 2. — Pancreatic Digestion 



Average of three 
experiments. 


Residue 
in gnn. 


Oiiantitv 
digested 
in grm. 


Proportion. 


Yeast Bread 


1-093 
1^506 


•907 
•494 


100-0 


A. B. p. do 


54-3 



In the experiments of Table 2 the same conditions were maintained 
as in Table 1, but the two granmies of bread taken were dried at 
100°, and reduced to powder before weighing. In each of the above 
sets of experiments (Tables 1 and 2), two hours' digestion was given, 
and the different breads, as in Series I, were baked by different per- 
sons, using the same yeast and baking powder. 
Ic 



26 



Table 3. — ^Pancreatic Digestion 



Residues 

Eelatiye dige^on 



o. 



•943 grm. 
100-000 



Tartftric B. P. 



•999 grm. 
94^300 



Pfaogphate B. P. 



1'115 gnn. 
69-000 



Alum B. P. 



1'125 grm. 
67-000 



The breads used in this set of experiments were: (a) plain flour 
and water baked (0 in the table) ; (h) bread made with a pure tar- 
taric acid baking powder containing tartaric acid, acid tartrate of 
I>otassium, bicarbonate of sodium and starch (Tartaric B. P. of 
the tables); (c) a phosphate baking powder containing acid phos- 
phate of calcium, sulphate of calcium, bicarbonate of sodium and 
starch (Phosphate B. P. of the tables); (d) an alum baldng i>ow- 
der containing burned ammonium alum, acid phosphate of calcium, 
bicarbonate of sodium, a very small quantity of bitartrate of potas- 
sium and starch (Alum B. P. of the tables). 

In this set of experiments and in all that follow, the breads were 
first dried at 100°, reduced to fine powder, two grammes taken, 6 c. c. 
of boiling water added to each, and stirred well until a similar paste 
was obtained in each beaker. This of course was cooled before the 
ferment was added. The great objection to experimenting with 
fresh bread, leaving out of consideration the time required to deter- 
mine the water in each sample, is that the different samples cannot 
be reduced to the same state of mechanical division, thus rendering 
comparisons between different series of experiments useless. Indeed, 
it was found most difficult to obtain similar results in the same series, 
where every other precaution was taken to establish precisely similar 
conditions. The texture of different parts of the same loaf varies 
greatly; still more do the different loaves vary that are made with 
the same flour, the same material being used to generate the carbonic 
acid gas. Very constant results have been obtained by the author 
whenever the foregoing method of obtaining similar mechanical con- 
ditions was employed. In a number of experiments made to ascer«- 
tain the effect of mechanical division on the rapidity of digestion, 
it was found that a very slight difference in the porosity of otherwise 
similar samples would decidedly affect the result. 

In the experiments of Table 3, 2 c. c. of the pancreatic ferment 
were used, and each digestive mixture made up to 50 c. c. with 1 p. c. 
solution of sodium carbonate. Digestion was continued for two 
hours at 40° C. 



Table 4. — ^Pancreatic Digestion 



Residues 

Relative digestion 



o. 



1-283 grm. 
100-000 



Tartaric B. P. 



1-298 grm. 
98-600 



Phosphate B. P. 



1-516 grm. 
67-500 



Alum B. P. 



1-52 grm. 
66'80 



27 

This set of experiments was made with a view of ascertaining the 
effect of a weaker digestive mixture on these breads. The mixtures 
were made as in Table 3, with the exception that only half the quan- 
tity of ferment was added, i. e., 1 c. c. of the extract instead of 2. 
The result shows a much smaller quantity digested in each of the 
samples, but, strangely enough, the relative digestion is practically 
unchanged; the phosphate powder, however, was slightly more retard- 
ing in this mixture than in the full digestive mixture shown in 
Table 3. 

Table 6. — ^Pancreatic Digestion 





o. 


Tartaric B. P. 


Phosphate 
B* P* 


Alum B. P. 


Time. 


Residues 

Relative digestion 


1*25 grm. 
100-00 . 


1-364 grm. 
84-800 


1-531 grm. 
62-500 


1-55 grUL 

60-00 


End of 
lihrs. 


Residues 

Relative digestion 


-96gmL 
100-00 


1-025 gnn. 
93-700 


1-067 grm. 
88-600 


1-067 grm. 
88-700 


End of 
24hrs. 


Residues 

Relative digestion 


-83 grm. 
100-00 


-82 grm. 
101-50 


•89 grm. 
95-00 


-92 gnn. 
92-70 


End of 
3ihrs. 



These experiments were made to ascertain the effect of variations 
in the time of exposure. The conditions of experiment were other- 
wise as in Table 3. 

It is plain that under the conditions of the experiment, the prod- 
ucts of digestion accumulating in the beakers soon became a more 
powerful retarding agent than the constituents of the i)owders. The 
greatest difference in the digestibility of these breads is seen at the 
end of one and a half hours' digestion, viz., 100, 84.8, 62.5, and 60. 
At the end of three and a half hours, the bread made irbm. the tar- 
taric acid powder has a smaller residue than the plain bread. These 
experiments are interesting, as they show well how difficult it is to 
express the relative digestibility of substances in terms of the time 
occupied to complete digestion. Those who regard favorably this 
latter mode of experimentation, do not always consider the fact that 
the products of digestion may vary with the speed of digestion. 
Grutzner* found that the intensity of the ferment action in the 
case of salivary digestion determined the nature of the digestion 
product — a slow action producing erythrodextrin from starch, while 
during rapid digestion, sugar was chiefly formed. Now, if the 
products of digestion accumulating in two digestion mixtures are 
not alike, their effects on the ferment will not be similar, and it 
would be manifestly erroneous to compare the results without a cor- 
rection of this source of error. Indeed, if the digestion be prolonged, 
the retarding influence of the accumulating products may become so 
powerful as to lead to conclusions absolutely false. In all the ex- 
periments made by the author, digestion was stopped, while still 
active, by boiling the mixtures simultaneously, thus reducing to a 
minimum any error arising from accumulating products of ferment 
action. 

* Phlftger's Archiv der Fhysiologie, xiL 207. 



28 

The experiments detailed in Series 11, Tables 1 to 5, show the 
influence of these baking powders on botii the amylolytic and pro- 
teolytic ferments of the pancreatic fluid. To study the effects on 
the former alone the following experiments were made : One gramme 
of each bread was taken with 2 c. c. of ferment made up to 50 c. c. 
and kept at 40° C. for two hours. Digestion was stopped by boil- 
ing, and the mixture filtered, the residue well washed and the dex- 
trose in the filtrate estimated by standard Fehling's solution. The 
results were as follo^ws: 

Table 6. — ^Pancreatic Digestion (Amylolytic action) 





0. 

22-7 
264 


Tartaric 
B. P. 


Phosphate 
B.T. 


Altun B. P. 


Per cent of dextrose 

Per cent of starch converted. 


18-9 
22-6 


17-8 
21-3 


16-8 
20-3 



In these experiments the amount of reducing substance formed was 
for the sake of convenience estimated as dextrose. This, of course, 
only expresses comparative results, as dextrose is but the final product 
of the change. Between dextrin, which has no reducing power, and 
dextrose, there are other bodies, notably maltose, formed in much 
larger quantities, the latter has a reducing power of but 66 (dex- 
trose 100), while achroodextrin and other intermediate products have 
very sli^t reducing action. The total reducing power of the mix- 
ture must, however, be a concise expression of the relative diastatic 
action of the ferment in each case. 

The percentage of starch converted into reducing bodies is calcu- 
lated according to the following reaction: 

4 CeHioOs -f 3 H2O CeHioOs -f- 3 C6H12O6 

starch. Dextrin. Dextrose, 

i. e., 6 parts of starch yield 5 parts of dextrose by weight. 

Series III. — The Relative Digestibility of Breads made with 

Different Baking Powders and Plain Unleavened 

Bread, Salivary Digestion 

Table 1 



« 


0. 


Tartaric 
B. P. 

•189 grm. 
•02: grm. 


Phosphate 
B. P> 


Alum B. P. 


Total dextrose formed 

Dextrose in each bread 

before digestion . . . 


•250 grm. 
•025 grm. 


•181 grm. 
•032 grm. 


•172 grm. 
•030 grm. 


Total dextrose formed 
by action of ptyalin 

Per cent, of starch con- 
verted 


•225 grm. 
27-000 


•161 grm. 
19-300 


•149 grm. 
17-800 


•142 grm. 
17-000 



29 

In these experiments 1 gramme of dried bread was taken in powder, 
reduced to a pulp, as in Series II, with 5 c. c. of water, 2 c. c. of 
filtered saliva added, and each mixture made up to 50 c. c. After 
digesting for thirty minutes and being boiled to kill the ferment, 
the mixture was filtered; the filtrate and washings were then made 
up to 76 p. c. and the dextrose estimated by Fehling's solution. 

From the experiments detailed in Division A, one may conclude: 
(1) That of the forms of bread experimented on, yeast bread and 
plain flour and water are the most digestible, and next, breads made 
with tartaric acid powder, lastly those other breads made from alum 
and phosphate powders, with a preference for the latter. (It is to 
be remembered that the phosphate powder contained calcium sul- 
phate — ^about 13 p. c. — ^which is shown later to be a strong retarding 
agent.) (2) That the amylolytic ferment of the saliva is more in- 
fluenced by these salts than is that of the pancreas. 

In order (a) to estimate more accurately the products of digestion, 
(h) to determine, if possible, which of the ferments was most influ- 
enced by the constituents of the baking powders, and (c) which 
one of the constituents of bread was most affected, the experiments 
detailed in the next division were tried.' 



B 

The Influence of Certain Baking Powders on the Digestion 

OF Fibrin, Gluten, and Starch 

The materials to be digested consisted of, (1) a 1 p. c. solution of 
potato starch, made neutral by washing with large excess of water; 
(2) gluten obtained from gluten flour, thoroughly washed, sepa- 
rated as completely as possible from starch and dried at 100 to 120° 
C; (3) fibrin, separated from blood clot, washed with water, alcohol, 
and ether, slowly dried at 100° and reduced to powder. 

To each digestion mixture, made up to 50 c. c. was added 0.05 p. c. 
of one of the powders. This quantity corresponds approximately 
with the amount required by the directions for the use of each pow- 
der. The ferment was added after the powder had been thoroughly 
incorporated with the mixture. 

Table 1. — TJie Relative Influence of the three Powders on the 

Amylolytic Ferment of Saliva 



Total dextrose 

Per cent, starch converted 



O. 



•222 grm. 
26-600 



Tartaric 
B. P. 



•2 grm. 
24-0 



Phosphate 
B. P. 



*16gnn. 
19-20 



Alum B. P. 



•158 grm 
18-800 



Here, as in previous experiments, 2 c. c. of filtered mixed saliva 
were taken, and the mixture made up to 100 c. c. with 1 p. c. starch 
solution. The digestion was stopped at the end of thirty minutes 
and the reducing substances estimated as glucose by a standard 



30 

Fehling's solution. in the table represents control experiment, com- 
posed of 100 c. c. of 1 p. c. starch and with 2 c. c. of saliva. 

In the following experiments 2 grammes of the materiahfor diges- 
tion were taken and 2 c. c. of glycerine extract of pepsin added to 
each mixture, which was made up to 6*0 c. c. by 0.2 p. c. solution of 
hydrochloric acid. Time, 2 hours. Control experiment taken at 
100, the weight of the undigested fibrin and gluten was estimated 
as the measure of the relative action of the ferment. 

Table 2. — The Influence of the Powders on the Proteolytic Action 
of Pepsin-hydrochloric acid (a) with gluten^ (b) with Fibrin 



a, — Gluten. 


0. 


Tartaric 
B. P. 


Phosphate 
B. P. 


Alum B. P. 


Undigested gluten . . 
Relative digestion . . 


•69grm. 
100-00 


•78grm. 
. -93 


•793 grm. 
92-20 


•994 grm. 
76-700 


6.— Fibrin. 

Undigested fibrin. . . 
Relative digestion . . 


•76grm. 
100-00 


•86grm. 
92-70 


•85 grm. 
92^70 


1-09 grm. 
73-40 



It will be observed that there is in these experiments a much 
greater difference between the alum and the phosphate powders than 
in any other series. This may be explained by the solubility of phos- 
phate of aluminium in hydrochloric acid of this strength. The author 
had no difficulty in dissolving 0.5 gramme in 50 c. c. of 0.2 p. c. hydro- 
chloric acid — ^more than twice the quantity present in the experiment. 



Table 3. — The Influence of the Powders on the Proteolytic 
Ferment of Pancreatic Digestion 



Residues 

Relative digestion . . . 



o. 



-79 grm. 
100-00 



Tartaric 
B. P. 



•91 grm. 
90-00 



Phosphate 
B. P. 



-92 grm. 
89-10 



Alum B. P. 

•99 grm. 
83-40 



The conditions of this experiment are similar to those of Table 2: 
2 c. c. of the ferment extract in a 1 p. c. solution of sodium car- 
bonate were caused to act for two hours on 2 granmies of fibrin at 
40° C. 

These results indicate that the alum i)owder retards the proteolytic 
action of the pancreatic ferment to a less degree than it does pepsin. 
In the latter, the relative digestion was 100 to 73.4; in the former, 
100 to 83.4. This is doubtless due to the solubility of the aluminium 
salts in pepsin-hydrochloric acid and their insolubility in an alkaline 
medium. Indeed, the proteolytic ferment of the pancreas is but 
slightly influenced by tiie powders and not much more by one than 



31 

another. The contrast between the effect of the baking powders on 
the amylolytic and proteolytic ferments of pancreatic fluid must be 
most marked, since the powders have very decided retarding influ- 
ence on the pancreatic digestion of bread (see Tables 4, 5, and 6, 
Div. A, Series I). 

C 



The Influence op Alum and of the Decomposition Products 
OP Some Baking Powders on the Digestion of Starch 

From the experiments recorded in Divisions A and B it appears that 
by the decomposition of the phosphate and alum baking powders, 
salts are formed which decidedly retard the action of the digestive 
ferments. Moreover, the almost unanimous verdict of these experi- 
ments is that the alum powder produces salts of greater retarding 
power than the phosphate, while there is a very marked retardation 
of both these mixtures over the tartaric acid powder. Now, as the 
salts formed by these powders are well known, it seemed of great 
interest to ascertain to which of them this power of hindering diges- 
tion is due. Experiments to elucidate more fully this important 
part of the question will form the subject of a future paper. In the 
meantime the following series will indicate the effects of the salts on 
one of the ferments, viz., the diastatic ferment of the saliva. 

Series I. — The Influence of the Salts produced hy the Decom- 
position of Certain Baking Powders on the Amylolytic 

Action of Saliva 

The purity of each salt was carefully ascertained and the per- 
centage of each in dried powder waa taken and dissolved or made 
into an emulsion with a small quantity of water. To this was added 
a 1 p. c. solution of starch, 2 c. c. of filtered mixed saliva added, and 
the whole made up to 50 c. c. with the starch solution. Ferment 
action was stopped by boiling after thirty minutes, and the relative 
diastatic action in each mixture was determined by estimating its 
reducing power with a standard Fehling's solution. 

The salts are arranged in order of their retardation. 





Total 

dextrose 

formed in 

grm. 


Percentage 
of staren 
converted. 


Control. 


(0) 


•113 


27-0 


/ Rochelle salt 


(NaKCiEUOe) . 

(NaaPO*) 

(Na2S04) 

(K2SO4) 

(AlaOeHe) .... 

(CaS04) 

(NaH2P04) . .. . 
(NaKC^HiOe) • 
(AkOeHe) .... 


•109 
•103 
•100 
•094 
•090 
•087 
•082 
•115 
•120 


26-0 


Neutral sodium phosphate. 


24-6 
24-0 


O'l p. c.< Potassium sulphate 

Aluminium hydrate 

nftlc.iiiTTi snlphatfi . 


22-4 
21-6 
20-8 


^ Acid sodium phosphate . . . 
/>,- ( Rochelle salt 


19-6 
27^6 


•uo p. c. 1 Aluminium hydrate 


244 



32 

This table speaks for itself, and as far as it goes indicates the rela- 
tive retarding power of 0.1 p. c. of the usual salts found after the 
expulsion of the carbonic acid gas from the baking powders used in 
the preceding experiments. This order, of course, might be changed, 
were other ferments employed or different quantities used; for in- 
stance, it is seen that while 0.5 p. c. of Kochelle salt acts as a stimu- 
lant to the ferment, the same quantity of the pulpy aluminium hy- 
drate still retards nearly in proportion to the quantity used. 

Series II. — The effect of different quantities of Alum and other 
Aluminium Salts on the Diastatic Ferment of Saliva 





Percentage 

of each sut 

taken. 


Total 
dextrose 
in grm. 


Per cent. 

starch 
converted. 


ControL 


O. 


•142 


34-0 


PotAStsinm ahim J 


•002 
•004 
•010 
•020 
•050 
•100 
•100 
•050 
•020 
•100 
•050 


•132 
•128 
•090 
•058 
Traces 
None 
•096 
•129 
•140 
•117 
•136 


31^9 
30-7 
21-6 


Aliiminiinn hydrate ) 

Aluminium phosphate ) 


13-9 

• • 

• • - 

23-0 
30-9 
33-6 
28-0 
32-6 



The experiments of Series II were conducted under similar con- 
ditions to those in Series I. The results would seem to indicate a 
destructive action towards the ferment on the part of alum, while 
loss of diastatic power in the experiments of Series I may be due 
either to precipitation of the proteids of the saliva by the salts, or 
simply to their clogging action. That many neutral salts have a 
specific action on the digestive ferments, and do not always act 
mechanically only, has been shown by numerous experiments. Chit- 
tenden, of Yale University, found that 0.6 p. c. qf magnesium sul- 
phate diminishes the amylolytic action of saliva by 65 p. c, while 
0.5 p. c. of tartar-emetic (KSbOCiHiOe) increases the amount of 
starch converted by 68 p. c. This is interesting in view of the fact 
that Rochelle salt in small quantity also acts as a mild stimulant to 
this diastatic ferment (see Div. C, Series I). 

Now, though one can scarcely conceive of any other than a clog- 
ging action on the part of insoluble salts, yet in the above experi- 
ments, the hydrate and phosphate of aluminium seem to induce a con- 
dition more unfavorable to ferment action than would be the case if 
their influence were purely mechanical. It has been suggested that 
neutral salts may form compounds with the ferment, which have of 
themselves little or no digestive power. This offers an explanation for 
the marked retarding powers of soluble sulphates, which, however, 
can scarcely be made to apply to insoluble pulpy precipitates. 



33 



Conclusions 

In comparing the results described under Divisions A and B with 
those of Division C, one seems quite justified in arriving at these 
conclusions. In the first place, the bread made with the tartaric 
acid powder is most quickly digested, because the Rochelle salts 
formed by the decomposition of this baking mixture possess a very 
weak retarding influence on ferments. On the other hand, the pres- 
ence of alkaline sulphates and of the pulpy viscid hydrate and phos- 
phate of aluminium among the decomposition products of the other 
powders, is quite sufficient to explain the relative indigestibility of 
bread containing these salts. That every experiment should have 
shown the alum powder to be the most noxious to the ferments, is 
manifestly due to the combined retarding influence of two agents 
left in the bread by this mixture, viz., an alkaline sulphate and the 
phosphate of aluminium. 

The phosphate powder, it must be remembered, contained about 
13 p. c. of a sulphate (CaSCU), which probably accounts for its high 
retarding power. Soluble phosphates do not appear to interfere 
seriously with the proper action of digestive ferments; at all events, 
no experimenter has found them possessed of that specific retarding 
power which is so characteristic of the sulphates as a class. 

Generally, then, the inferences to be drawn from these experiments 
do not coincide with the views usually expressed by either the oppo- 
nents or the defenders of alum baking powders, though they may 
favor the former. Here, as is so often the case in hotly contested 
questions, the truth seems to lie between the extremes of opinion 
expressed by the two parties. For, on the one hand, there is nothing 
in common between the specific destructive action of alum itself and 
the semi-mechanical, retarding influence of these products of its 
decomposition. A quantity of alum that would entirely prohibit fer- 
ment action will (as shown in Division 0), when converted into its 
equivalent alkaline sulphate and aluminium phosphate, only delay 
digestion from 20 to 30 p. c. On the other hand, although there is 
no similarity between the effects of alum itself and of the salts left 
in bread by alum baking powders, yet the retarding influence of the 
latter on digestion is certainly well marked. 

The unanimous verdict of the foregoing experiments is, that alum 
powders introduce into a form of food of universal use agents which 
are detrimental to the functional activity of the digestive ferments. 
They must, therefore, be prejudicial to health, and the only safe 
course is to carefully avoid them. Whether they are sufficiently 
injurious to be excluded from the market is a question that the 
interpreters of the law alone can decide. 



THE POISONOUS EFFECTS OF ALUM 

IN ANIMALS AND MAN, AS PROVEN BY THE EXPERI- 
MENTS OF ALPH. DEVERGIE 



Medicine Legale. (Tome 8.) Paris, 1861 

ACTION OP ALUM ON THE ANIMAL ECONOMY 

Page 355. Experiments have been made at the same time by 
M. Orfila and myself with the view of confirming the deleterious 
properties of alum. The results of our experiments differ in several 
respects; I will report both: 

M. Orfila made a little dog weighing eight i)ounds swallow suc- 
cessively and with the interval of a day: 1st, 28 grammes of crys- 
tallized alum reduced to a fine powder; 2d, 28 grammes of the same 
alum; 3d, 26 grammes of alum calcined to powder; this time, after 
having introduced the alum, he tied up the oesophagus. In the first 
two experiments, the animal vomited white, ropy matter, containing 
alum, and an hour afterwards he ate with appetite. In the last, it 
was not remarked that the dog made any efforts to vomit; the liga- 
ture was removed four hours after its application ; the next day he was 
weak and tormented by thirst; he died three days afterwards with- 
out having presented other symptoms than a state of weakness and 
prostration continually increasing. The autopsy disclosed no altera- 
tion that could account for death. 

Another dog, weighing 5 kilogrammes, was made to take 28 
grammes of alum calcined to powder. The animal vomited stringy, 
white matter; half an hour afterwards there was also a stool. He 
ate towards the end of the day. The experiment was made at noon. 
The following day, at noon, fasting, he was made to swallow 20 
grammes of calcined alum; he experienced the same symptoms as on 
the previous day, and was not long in recovering. Three days after- 
wards, at noon, 18 grammes of calcined alum, diluted and in part 
dissolved in three ounces of water, were injected into his stomach. 
He vomited at the end of ten minutes; haK an hour afterwards he 
had two solid stools near together, and experienced no other trouble. 
Next day 28 grammes of calcined alum, partly dissolved, partly diluted 
with four ounces of cold water, were injected into his stomach. The 
animal, who was fasting, vomited at the end of six minutes a part 

34 



35 

of the matter injected; eight minutes after, renewed vomiting, and 
in the following ten minutes he vomited twice more. In the evening 
he was in his natural condition and ate with appetite. Finally, after 
having oi)ened the oesophagus of this dog, 64 grammes of calcined 
alum, diluted and partly dissolved in 90 grammes of water, were 
there introduced. The ligature was then terminated. Two hours 
after, marked dejection, great difficulty in standing up, little sensi- 
bility, for one may prick and pinch him without his making the 
least movement. He died five hours after the ingestion of the alum. 
On opening the body the mucous membrane of the stomach was 
found inflamed in all its extent, particularly towards the large cul- 
de-sac, where it is of a dark brown. A slight effusion of blood in 
the sub-mucous cellular tissue, near the pylorus; the walls of the 
stomach indurated in this place and as if tanned. 

Sixty grammes of calcined alum administered in the same manner 
to a dog weighing 125^ kilogrammes; the animal died at the end of 
fourteen hours. The alimentary canal presented analogous alter- 
ations. 

I will now relate my own experiments, and first those which were 
made with calcined alum in part dissolved, in part susi)ended in 
water. 

First Experiment At half-past eleven we made a dog swallow 16 
grammes of calcined alimi partly dissolved in three ounces of water; 
abundant vomitings of greenish, frothy, ropy matter, in the midst of 
which much alum is found. The animal remained dejected. At 
four o'clock he ate with quite a good appetite, but ten minutes 
afterwards threw up the food he had taken, and he drank with much 
avidity. His walk was troubled, and he evidently showed weakness 
in the hind-quarters. At seven o'clock of the evening he^ eats^ a 
little; has difficulty in moving his hind-paws; however, he is quite 
calm. The next day, at ten o'clock in the morning, he appeared 
recovered, but his gait was still rather wavering. The third day he 
was in his natural condition. 

Second Experiment. At noon 24 grammes of calcined alum are 
introduced into the stomach of a dog. Ten minutes afterwards, 
vomitings of mucous, foamy matter, very white and sprinkled with 
alum; same state of weakness. At four o'clock the animal is 
shrunken; his abdomen is contracted; the skin is tightly drawn over 
the ribs, which show up very well. A marked weakness of the hind- 
quarters exists. He refuses to drink or eat. There was an alvine 
evacuation of liquid matter. At seven o'clock he seems much better, 
takes some food. Next day he appears restored to health. All our 
experiments were made on very strong dogs. The calcined alum we 
employed was procured from Messrs. Boudet & Delondre, apothe- 
caries ; but principally from M. Boudet. 

Third Experiment, At half -past ten o'clock, a dog was made to 
swallow thirty grains of calcined alum mixed and partly dissolved 
in four ounces of water. This ingestion was followed by only a 
slight uneasiness; ten minutes pass, the animal grinds his teeth, 
and soon falls into a condition of very pronounced weakness. Half 
an hour afterwards, vomitings take place with quite severe efforts; 
there appears at the mouth a great quantity of white, ropy froth; 
the vomitings are renewed, and much alum is distinguished in the 



36 

matter vomited. At four o'clock the animal seems less sad, but pre- 
sents a very pronounced weakness in the paws. At six o'clock he 
refuses to take food. Next day he eats and drinks with considerable 
avidity, but vomits up the food a little while after having taken it. 
The third day he api)ears recovered, and ate with apx)etite. Having 
killed him and oi)ened him on the eighth day, we found in the large 
cul-de-sac of the stomach a white, rounded plate two inches in 
diameter. The injected mucous membrane came off easily at this 
point. The rest of the organ was quite healthy. 

Fourth Experiment, At a quarter past twelve a dog is made to 
take sixty grains of calcined alum partly dissolved in six ounces 
of water. At once weakness, uneasy air, suffering; quarter of an 
hour afterwards, attempts to vomit; then vomitings of a small quan- 
tity of green, frothy matter; much foaming at the mouth, shudder- 
ing, horripilations, prostration more and more pronounced; at half- 
past two the animal is flat on his belly, eyes dhn, sad; it is impos- 
sible for him to stand on his feet. At half-past four o'clock he 
appears a little less suffering; he sits up but carries his head very 
high and stiff; he breathes slowly, and with difficulty. At seven 
o'clock in the evening he lies supine; his respiration is stertorous; 
he appears in a profound state of suffering, for he endeavors to 
change his position at every instant. At eight o'clock the animal 
had succumbed. Opened the next day, we observed the following 
changes: Red color of the stomach and intestines, examined exter- 
nally; the epiploon is itself strongly colored. All the vessels of 
the intestines are filled with blood. The internal surface of the 
a3sophagus is of a grayish white; that of the stomach is white in the 
upper four-fifths of its extent, and yellow in the rest. This organ 
contains much food; its mucous membrane is as if shagreened; it is 
cracked at several points. In general it is so softened, that friction 
with the pulp of the fingers suffices to detach it; it appears disor- 
ganized in almost the whole . of its extent. When it is raised, a 
brick-red coloration of the muscular tunic is observed, which con- 
trasts with the grayish tint of the mucous membrane. The con- 
sistency of the muscular tunic does not api)ear altered. From the 
stomach to the end of the small intestine, a brick-red coloration of . 
the mucous membrane exists. The lungs are edematous. When they 
are compressed a large quantity of sanguineous serosity oozes forth. 

Fifth Experiment. At ten o'clock the oesophagus of a dog is tied 
up, after having injected into the stomach eight grammes of cal- 
cined alum, partly dissolved in two ounces of water. A short time 
after the animal fell into a state of great weakness; he made re- 
peated attempts to vomit. They were followed by rattling of the 
intestines, by quite a strong agitation, by momentary contractions of 
the paws. The animal then lay down and remained prostrated. In 
the evening the belly was stretched and warm; the dog changed his 
place with much difficulty. Next day he kept in the same situation; 
he could nevertheless be made to walk a little better than the day 
before. Having killed this animal in the morning, we proceeded 
to open him. Examined on the exterior, the stomach, and intes- 
tines appeared to be in their natural state. The mucou^ membrane 
of the stomach was generally injected; it presented a brick-red color 
along the large curve. In the centre of the large cul-de-sac existed 



I 



I 



S7 

a whitish plate of an inch and a half in diameter. eTidentljr due ta 
tbe action of the alum. The mucous membrane was stmiiglj' ■ al- 
tered at this point; it was raised vith ease, like that of the stouutrh 
of the dog who had swallowed two ounces of alutii. 

Experiments made viilh Alum Dissolved in Water. Sixty (I'Aiiuui'S 
of calcined alum were treated with nine ounces of water uud oub- 
mitted to ebullition. The filtered liquor was injected iuto the Htmii- 
Bch of a dog of strong build by the aid of an openinK made in tlif 
ffisophagUB. This channel was tied up after the iujootion. The ani- 
mal, left to himself, presented at first no remarkable phonomoiion, 
but soon attempts to vomit occurred, and were prolonged durinB tho 
space of two hours, becoming, however, less and less cuusiderahle. 
During these attempts the anitnul gave out at the mouth a Inrfpi 
quantity of thick, viscid saliva. He then foil into weakness ; his 
belly became swollen ; an alvine evacuation took placu. Tlll^ next 
day he appeared very suffering; strove to change his jioitition; little 
by little the prostration became greater and grenhir, and dtiath 
occurred forty-eight hours after the injcctinii of the poison. On 
opening the body we found the atomach uni^iin'illy l>ilol)iil.iiil. The 
most extended portion, which had seven or cikIiI tnnrs I In- ciiimcity 
of the other, followed after the asophamis. 'i'lm inliTnal mrudirand 
greenish gray, shagreened and as if [iiarhled ; it was strewn 
with blackish furrows, which did not correspond with the course of the 
Tenons vessels. It was dense, hardened, and crackud in almost its 
whole extent, and particularly in the large cul-de-sac of the stoni- 
The same was not the case with the lining of the saoond divi- 
of this organ; this membrane had preserved its ordinary dennity, 
tut it offered an extremely marked brick-roH coloration. This c'oior 
diminished in intensity in the duodenum, and was lost in the upper 
■third of the small intestine. In general all tlin vessels of the Intes- 
tines were gorged with blood, but particularly those of the stomacli 
and large epiploon. It is important to note that the atoinach and 
intestines contained no food. 

experiment was repeated on two other dogs, and in the same 
One died in the space of fifty hours, and the other fifty 
four hours after the injection of the poison, nil presenting the sainr- 
symptoms. The stomach of theso two dogs contained food. 1'helr 
mucous membrane was of a lively red, very much cnm:gBt«d on 
itself. All the vessels of this ortean were injected, but wo have not 
met with this augmentation of density resulting from tbn cvidoiit 
action of the alum on the st^imncli of the tirst dog. 

Twenty-six grammes of calcined alum. disHolved in aix ouucM of 
water by boiling, are introduced itt two n'clork into tho atnmach of 
a very large dog by an opening made in the (caophagua. Thi^ nnltiinl 
at first appears little disturbed by the Hction of this substancn; half 
an hour afterwards hn mnkes nonie (iiTort« to vomit, and ooon be- 
comes weak. The nfxt day his cimditioTi was littln changnd ; the 
second day he seemed to sufTcr in'rre; he changed his place with diffi- 
culty; his belly hod much diminiohixl in viliimf*. and hi* ribs heiruii 
to show under the skin. The third day the dog lay on his side, with 
head resting on the gnmnd. nnws half Is-nt, ribs nhowirig pininly. 
belly very much ■hrunk*^i. A siingiiitn'oiis alvine evo'^atirm Umk 
place in the morning. Ho sDcctlinlNyl at three o'olook In the utter- 



38 

noon, seventy-three hours after the injection of the alum. This dog 
had refused food before being operated on» On oi)ening the abdo- 
men, the stomach and intestines apx)eared injected and of a rose color. 
The gastric mucous membrane was of a very dark red in almost its 
whole extent; it appeared a little softened. 

Following are tiie facts concerning the administration of alum to 
man. Excepting the first, they all relate to the use of crystallized 
alum. 

A lady who from childhood was troubled with diseases' of the 
stomach, having to use a solution of gum arable, by order of her 
physician, received from an apothecary calcined alum for powdered 
gum. Fifteen grammes of alum are put into a pint of lukewarm 
water; a cup of this drink is presented to Madame B., who seizes it 
eagerly, but scarcely has she drunk a few swallows, when she pushes 
it away, complaining of very severe pains in the mouth, pharynx, 
and stomach, saying that she was x)oisoned. Nausea, great heat, har- 
rowing pain in all the organs that have received the medicament. 
Rapid pulse, agitated face, muscles attacked by slight convulsive 
movements, increased desire to vomit, inextinguishable thirst. Quar- 
ter of an hour afterwards vomitings, which were repeated all day, 
but the patient was made to take thirty-two glasses of tepid water. 
By the report of the physician, Madame B. was so ill that her life 
was in danger. The condition of the stomach made an application 
of leeches necessary. There was, perhaps, an exaggeration in the 
consequences of this medication, but it evidently produced an irri- 
tating effect the more marked as the digestive passages were diseased. 
Professor Dumeril often employs in chronic diarrhoeas a drink com- 
X)08ed of 4 grammes of alum dissolved in 1 kilog. of vehicle, to be 
taken in twenty-four hours. More frequently makes use, in passive 
hemorrhages, of 8 grammes of alum dissolved in a pound of whey. 
Messrs. Kapeler and Gendrin employ alum in the treatment of paint- 
er's colic. They put the dose at 12 and even at 24 grammes in 
twenty-four hours. The patients have never complained of a burn- 
ing sensation. In some cases, instead of giving the dose of alum in 
twenty-four hours, they have administered at once a dose of 12 
grammes dissolved in 180 grammes of vehicle. But generally, the 
alum is given in solution in one or two pois of drink, which are 
taken in twenty-four hours. I have treated several cases of lead 
colic in this way without any accident. It is well to observe,* I think, 
that no comparison is to be established between a man afflicted with 
painter's colic and a man in a state of health. Also Messrs. Kapeler 
and Gendrin's facts are only of a secondary value, as they should 
be compared with poisonings by this substance. Let an individual 
in good health undergo the treatment of the Charite, which causes 
no accident daily in these sorts of cases, and from which on the 
contrary great advantages are derived, and it will be seen in what a 
state the person will be at the end of a few days. 

M. Orfila has concluded from the experiments he made on animals 
and from the last facts: 

First That dogs, even the weakest and smallest, can endure very 
strong doses of calcined alum without experiencing other accidents 
than vomitings and stools; that they are perfectly recovered one or 
two hours after the ingestion of the alum. 



I 



Second. That if, in consequence of the ligature of the ceaophagua, 
or from any other cause, a strong dose of calcined alum is not vom- 
ited, death oceure at the end of a few hours, even in robust dogs and 
of a very strong build. 

Third. That, applied externally in the sub-cutaneous cellular -tia- 
Bue of a dog's thigh, calcined alum at the dose of thirty grammes 
determines a deep burning, which causes a suppuration sufficiently 
abundant to kill the animal in from lifteen to twenty days. 

Fourth. That an adult man can swallow in a day and without 
inconvenience several drams of alum calcined and dissolved in water. 

Fifth. That it is not doubtful, after what is observed in animals, 
that an adult man who should swallow 30 to 60 grammes of calcined 
alum dissolved in water would have vomitings and stools, and would 
be no more disturbed by it than these animals. On the contrary, it 
is certain that by reason of hia greater stature and strength, a much 
atronger dose of alum would be required to produce in him accidents 
as intense as in dogs. 

After having given with exactness the experiments and views of 
M. Orfila respecting alum, I will now enunciate the conclusions I ■ 
have drawn from my researches and from all the facts I have just 
made known. 

First The calcined alum of commerce always contains a quan- 
tity of aub-sulphate of aluminium and of potash insoluble in boiling 
water; so that 30 grammes of calcined alum never represent the quan- 
tity of alum which has furnished it — that is, nearly 60 grammes. 

Second. Calcined alum may be badly enough prepared to lose all 
its deleterious properties, and to be transformed into a probably inert 
matter. 

Third. Calcined alum boiled in a sufficient quantity of water, 
and during a long enough time, recovers all the properties of erya- 
tallized alum, at least with regard to the quanti^ of soluble alum 
not decomposed. 

Fourth. Calcined alum treated with cold water is dissolved in it 
with difficulty, and requires much more water than if treated with 
boiling water; so that a portion of alum may escape the solvent 
action of the water and remain suspended in it. Crystallized alum 
only dissolves in fourteen or fifteen times its weight of water at 15 
degrees, while it does not even require its weight of boiling water; 
and if it is in the state of calcined alum, it resists the action of 
water a long time. 

Fifth. Calcined alum is a corrosive substance for the mucous 
membranes. 

Sixth. Calcined alum may cause the death of dogs at the dose 
of 60 grammes, even in cases when vomiting is not prevented, and 
when the stomach contains food. 

Seventh. A dose of 28 grammes may cause death, when the cesoph- 
agus has been tied up, and though it may have been preliminarily 
dissolved in water. 

Eighth. Calcined alum, incorporated with cold water and partly 
suspended, constitutes a mixture m.uch more deleterious than if it 
had been prepared with hot water and entirely dissolved. 

Ninth. This substance would act with much more energy on 
man, though at the same dose, his stomach being endowed with 



40 

much more sensibility* and his sympathies much more active than 
in the dog. 

Tenth, If the stomach were diseased, affected by chronic phleg- 
masia, for example, no doubt its action would be still more energetic. 

Eleventh, The alum is absorbed, carried into the torrent of the 
circulation, and the presence of the base of aluminium may be con- 
firmed in the liver, the spleen, and the urine. (Orfila.) 

Treatment. In case the ingestion of alum in the stomach should 
cause accidents, the physicians should favor the vomitings that are 
almost always the consequence of it, by employing lukewarm water, 
without, however, exaggerating the quantity of it. It would then 
be necessary to attempt to arrest the progress of the phlegmasia of 
the digestive tube, by the aid of the ordinary antiphlogistics. Mag- 
nesia has been employed in an analogous case; it is quite useless, for 
alum is not so acid a salt that it can act upon the stomach as a 
poison of this kind. 



ORFIU'S EXPERIMENTS, DEMONSTRATING THE 
POISONOUS NATURE OF ALUM 



Traite de Tozicologie. (Tome 1.) Paris, 1852 

ON ALUM. ACTION ON THE ANIMAL ECONOMY 

Page 366. Experiment 1. I made a little dog weighing four kilo- 
grammes, fasting, swallow twenty-eight grammes of crystallized 
alum with a base of potash, reduced to a fine powder. At the end 
of twenty-five minutes, the animal vomited quite a large quantity of 
liquid, white, ropy matter containing alum. Three quarters of an 
hour afterwards, he had a solid stool. At the end of an hour he 
ate, and showed no sign of uneasiness. The next day he was veiy 
well, and devoured the food given him. The following day, at nooh, 
he was still fasting, when he was made to take again twenty-eight 
grammes of the same alum; half an hour afterwards he vomited 
twice matter similar to the preceding, and seemed no more troubled 
than the day before. On the next day he was perfectly well. 

Experiment 2. A little dog, aged three months, weighing five 
kilogrammes, and fasting, was made to take at noon twenty-eight 
grammes of calcined alum in a fine powder; half an hour afterwards 
the animal vomited ropy, white matter, evidently containing alum; 
he had a stool after a short time. He ate towards the end of the 
day, as well as the next day, and appeared perfectly recovered. The 
following day at noon, fasting, he was made to swallow twenty 
grammes of the same calcined alum; he experienced the same trou- 
bles as the day before, and was not long in recovering. 

Three days afterwards, by the aid of a syringe and a gum elastic 
sound, eighteen grammes of calcined alum diluted and partly dis- 
solved in 96 grammes of water, were injected into his stomach at 
noon. He vomited at the end of ten minutes. Half an hour after- 



41 

wards he had two solid stools near together, and experienced no fur- 
ther trouble. The next day his stomach was injected with 28 
grammes of calcined alum, partly dissolved, partly diluted in 125 
grammes of cold water. The animal, who was fasting, vomited at 
the end of six minutes a part of the ingested matter; eight minutes 
after another vomiting, and in the ten minutes following, he vomited 
twice more. In the evening he was in his natural condition, and ate 
with appetite. The next day he showed no uneasiness. 

Experiment 3. By the aid of a syringe and a gum elastic sound, 
64 grammes of calcined alum, partly diluted, partly dissolved in 125 
grammes of cold water, were introduced into the stomach of a dog 
much stronger than the preceding, weighing 125^ kilogrammes; ten 
minutes afterwards the animal vomited a considerable quantity of 
alimentary matter, whitened with powder of alum. These vomit- 
ings were twice renewed in the following half hour, and it was not 
long before the dog was perfectly recovered. 

Experiment 4. By the same process 64 granunes of calcined alum, 
mixed with 100 grammes of water, were injected at noon into the 
stomach of a small dog, weighing 5 kilogrammes, aged about three 
months, and fasting. The animal vomited ropy, white matter in 
quarter of an hour; fifty minutes afterwards he had vomited five 
times. At two o'clock he appeared very well. The following days 
he ate with appetite and gave no signs of uneasiness. 

These experiments support what I published on alum in the year 
1814. I said, "I made a dog take 24 grammes of alum in powder; 
an hour afterwards the animal vomited without effort, and Ke did 
not appear much distressed. The next day he ate as usual, and 
was perfectly recovered. This experiment goes to prove that alum 
mixed with wines might occasion accidents in certain circumstances." 
(Note on page 274 of 2d part of vol. i. of my Toxicologie Oenerale, 
1st edition, 1814.) 

Desiring to know the effects of alum on dogs, when vomiting is 
prevented, I made the following experiments: 

Experiment 5. The dog, who was the subject of the first experi- 
ment, whom I said to have perfectly recovered after having taken 
56 grammes of conunon alum, swallowed 26 grammes of calcined 
alum in powder; ^ve minutes after his oesophagus was tied up. At 
the end of four hours the ligature was removed, and it was not re- 
marked that the dog made any efforts to vomit. The next day he 
was feeble and tormented by thirst. He died three days afterwards, 
without having presented any other symptom than a state of weak- 
ness and prostration, continually increasing. On opening the body 
nothing was discovered to account for death. 

Experiment 6. The dog, that was the subject of the second experi- 
ment, who was perfectly restored after having swallowed 94 grammes 
of calcined alum, took 64 grammes of calcined alum diluted and 
partly dissolved in 96 grammes of water; the oesophagus was tied 
up immediately. Two hours afterwards, marked dejection, great 
difficulty in standing up ; little sensibility, for he may be pinched and 
pricked without making the least movement. He died five hours 
after the ingestion of the alum. 

Opening of the hody. The stomach contains quite a large quan- 
tity of liquid; its internal surface is covered in almost its whole 



42 

extent with a reddish matter mixed with greenish and bilious-like 
portions. The mucous membrane is inflamed throughout, particu- 
larly near the large cul-de-sac, where it is of a dark brown; towards 
the pylorus there is a little effused blood, and the mucous membrane 
is there of a quite dark red. The walls of the stomach are ex- 
tremely thick in the pyloric extremity; they are hardened, as if 
tanned, and resist a cutting instrument. The parietes of the small 
intestine are slightly thickened; this intestine is lined internally by 
a granulated substance of a slightly yellowish white. The large 
intestines contain liquid, yellowish, fetid matter. There is, however, 
nothing remarkable in this intestine. The other organs are the seat 
of no appreciable alteration. 

Experiment 7. At eight o'clock in the morning the oesophagus of 
a robust dog, weighing 12 kilogrammes, was detached and pierced 
with a hole; by the aid of a funnel 64 granunes of calcined alum, 
partly diluted and partly dissolved in 128 grammes of water, were 
introduced into his stomach; the oesophagus was tied up. Fourteen 
hours after the dog died, after having experienced the same symptoms 
as the preceding. The digestive canal presented changes similar to 
those I have just spoken of. (See experiment 6.) 

Experiment 8. Thirty-two grammes of calcined alum, finely pul- 
verized, were applied to the cellular tissue of the thigh of a dog of 
medium figure; the strips of skin were brought together by a few 
sutures, so that the alum must remain on the denuded surface. 

Eight days afterwards it is seen that the animal api)ears not to 
have suffered any notable trouble, the sutures of the wound still 
exist. On incising the skin corresponding to the parts put in con- 
tact with the alum, a resistance is felt owing to this portion of the 
integuments ^having become partly dried; the interior of the wound 
is not infianied, no trace of reunion is observed. The subcutaneous 
cellular tissue is dried, yellowish gray, and evidently gangrened. 
There is still a little alum in the wound. After a few days suppu- 
ration is established, and soon becomes very abundant; fragments 
of the cellular tissue and skin are detached, and the animal dies 
a fortnight after the external application of the alum. An examina- 
tion of the limb after death shows that suppuration had destroyed 
all the cellular tissue of the interior part of the thigh, and even the 
intermuscular cellular tissue; effusions of pus had taken place as far 
as the leg. There is no doubt, from the small quantity of aliun 
found in the wound, and from the disorders I have just mentioned, 
that this salt had been transported to parts of the limb quite re- 
moved from that upon which it had been placed. 

Conclusions, First, Even the weakest and smallest dogs can sup- 
port very strong doses of calcined alum (60 grammes, for example) 
without having other accidents than vomitings and stools; indeed 
they are perfectly recovered one or two hours after the ingestion of 
the alum, if they have had abundant evacuations. In combating 
this conclusion, M. Devergie has brought forward no probable fact, 
and has put himself in opposition to what is best established. The 
only experiment he can produce in favor of his opinion, the fourth, 
proves nothing, for the dog who had swallowed 64 grammes of cal- 
cined alum, and who died eight hours afterwards, had vomited only 
a small quantity of green, frothy matter. Experiments 1, 2, and 3, 



43 

made by this physician, confirm on the contrary this first conclusion. 
(See Med, Legale, Vol. III., page 337.) 

Second. If in consequence of the ligature of the oesophagus, or 
from any other cause, this strong dose of calcined or crystallized 
alum is not vomited up, death occurs in a few hours, even in robust 
and large dogs. The last five experiments reported by M. Devergie 
only confirm what I said in regard to this, twelve years before him. 

Third. In this case, the mucous membrane of the digestive canal 
is very much inflamed, as I proved in 1829. 

Fourth, Applied externally on the subcutaneous cellular tissue of 
the thigh of dogs, calcined alum, at the dose of 32 grammes, produces 
a deep bum, causing suppuration sufficiently abundant to kill the 
animals in from fifteen to twenty days. 

Fifth, An adult man can swallow in a day, and without incon- 
venience, 4, 6, 8, and 10 grammes of calcined alum dissolved in 
water. Boerhaave gave 4 grammes of it at a time in intermittent 
fevers. Helvetius gave every four hours 2 grammes of pills con- 
taining 1 granune 30 centigrammes of calcined alum, making the 
dose of alum 7 grammes 8 decigrammes in twenty-four hours. M. 
Dumeril has often administered 4 grammes of this salt in a day, 
dissolved in a diet-drink. Marc gave, in twenty-four hours, 600 
grammes of whey, in which was dissolved 8 grammes of alum. Dr. 
Kapeler has given without inconvenience, in painter's colic, and in 
the epidemic disease known under the name of raphania, up to 24 
grammes of alum in the course of twenty-four hours, and sometimes 
he has administered 12 grammes at once dissolved in 200 grammes 
of vehicle; some of the individuals subjected to this medication were 
of a feeble constitution. The medicament has only very rarely in- 
duced nausea or vomiting, never epigastralgia ; but it has frequently 
caused abundant stools. 

Sixth, There is no doubt, from what is observed in dogs and 
from what precedes, that an adult man in good health, who should 
swallow 30, 40, or 60 grammes of calcined alum dissolved in water, 
would have vomitings and stools, and would not be more troubled 
by it than these animals; on the contrary, it is certain that by rea- 
son of his greater stature and greater strength, a much stronger 
dose of alum woidd be necessary to produce accidents in him as 
intense as in dogs. M. Devergie thinks, on the contrary, that the 
stomach of man being endowed with much more sensibility, and his 
sympathies being much more active than in the dog, the alum would 
act with much more energy. This opinion, purely hypothetical, is 
contradicted by the only facts that are in the domain of science. 
(See Fifth.) 

Seventh, It is equally certain that a strong dose of alum might 
occasion the death of a man, if this salt were not expelled by vom- 
itings and stools, as results from experiments 6, 6, and 7, which I 
published in 1829. (See p. 367.) 

Eighth, If the stomach of man, instead of being healthy, as I 
have thus far supposed, was affected by a chromephlegmasia, tho 
alum would act with much more energy, without, however, over 
causing a dilatation of the left venfricle of the heart, as was incon- 
siderately announced by Dr. Fournier-Deschamps, in a medico-legal 
affair for which I was consulted, January 24, 1829, and of which 



44 

this is the summary: Madame B. was attacked, while she was still 
in boarding-school at Aigle (Ome), by almost continual vomiting^ 
and so obstinate that it resisted all the remedies indicated; whatever 
the substances given to the stomach, not excepting water, they were 
immediately rejected. Dr. Emangard succeeded, at the end of six 
weeks, by an appropriate treatment, in making the patient support 
a slightly lacteous water; the alimentation was progressively in- 
creased, and her health became as good as could be expected in a 
person whose infancy and youth had been marked by a constantly 
valetudinarian condition. In 1827 Madame B. was ill enough to 
keep to her bed during a large part of the winter. In February^ 
1828, she summoned, for the first time. Dr. Fournier-Deschamps,. 
who attended her nearly two months. In the course of the sununer 
irregularities arose in her menstruation, which necessitated recourse 
to sinapisms, an infusion of saffron, etc. September 10, 1828, as. 
declared by Dr. Fournier, Madame B. was troubled by a sanguineous 
derangement, with inflanunatory predisposition proceeding from the 
diminution of the menstrual flux. However vague and insufficient 
such a diagnostic may be, the prescription was sixteen leeches and 
gum arable for a drink; unfortunately the apothecary delivered, by 
mistake, two packages containing each 16 grammes of calcined alum. 
One of these packages had been dissolved in about a litre of luke- 
warm water; a cup of this drink was presented to Madame B. 
Scarcely had she drunk two or three spoonfuls, when she pushed it 
away, complaining of very severe pains in the mouth, pharynx, and 
stomach, saying she was poisoned and her mouth was burned. By 
Dr. Fournier's report "she complained of nausea, severe heat, tear- 
ing pains in all the points that had come in contact with the alum; 
the pulse had become rapid and the face animated; the muscles had 
been agitated by slight convulsive movements; the desire to vomit had 
increased; the thirst had become inextinguishable. Madame B. com- 
menced to vomit quarter of an hour after having taken this drink; 
the patient had no rest; the vomitings continued all day — (Note. 
Dr. Fournier does not say that he had made Madame B. take, in the 
course of the day, the 22d, contrary to all the rules of the art, 32 
glasses of tepid water) ; they relax in the evening and are less fre- 
quent during the night. But the patient was troubled by insomnia 
and acute pains. The next day there was some fever; the vomitings 
were less frequent, but the pains continued. The night was again 
very much disturbed. The following day, the 24th, there was no more 
fever; the epigastric region had become very sore to the touch, and 
was very tense. Twelve leeches having been applied, the patient was 
better the 26th." Though Madame B. had been in the enjoyment 
of perfect health, says Dr. Fournier in one of his depositions, the use 
of such a beverage was of a nature to incommode her very much. 

Called upon to give my opinion in this affair, I thus expressed 
myself: Calcined alum is an irritating salt which may, however, be 
taken in quite a strong dose without occasioning the least disturb- 
ance; a quantity five times that swallowed by Madame B. is daily 
administered to patients without their having even any desire to 
vomit. However, I do not dispute that Madame B. may have experi- 
enced some unpleasant symptoms from the alum; for a long time 
she seems to have been afflicted with an affection of the stomachy 



45 

and we know that with such dispositions, a substance will not be 
supported which would be perfectly so if the stomach were not dis- 
eased. As Dr. Marc had done, I reduced to its just value Dr. Four- 
nier's strange assertion, namely, that alum, in a dose of some centi- 
grammes, could have caused an aneurism of the heart. The fine, 
inflicted by the tribunal of correctional police on the apothecary, was 
reduced by half. (See my consultation in vol. i. of the Annates 
d^ Hygiene, year 1829.) 



TREATMENT OF POISONING BY ALUM 

Vomiting is to be favored by lukewarm water and titillation of 
the uvula, then the gastro-intestinal phlegmasia is to be combated 
by general or local bleedings, emollient drinks, diet, etc. 



Journal de Pharmacie et de Chimie. (4e Serie, Tome XVni). 1873. 

Page 333. A case of poisoning by alum, by Dr. Ricquet, of Liege. 
Mr. V. M., wishing to purge himself, as he was accustomed to with 
sulphate of magnesia, sent to an apothecary for 30 grammes of this 
substance, and took them, after dissolving in cold water. He suc- 
cumbed after horrible pains. Immediately after the administration 
of the pretended salts of magnesia, he felt a burning sensation in 
the mouth, throat, and stomach, followed by a single sanguineous 
vomiting. No stools, extreme uneasiness, then insupportable an- 
guish, repeated lipothymies, intelligence and senses intact. Finally 
intermittent, filiform pulse, cold skin. The deglutition of liquids 
was almost impossible. He died eight hours after having taken the 
remedy. 

On opening the body a grayish-yellow coat was found covering the 
mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus ; the tongue 
and uvula were swollen; the stomach, intestine, and two kidneys 
injected. 

A chemical analysis was then made; a search was made in vain 
in the organs for oxalic acid, arsenious acid, and other metallic 
poisons, but sulphate of aluminium and of potash were found. In 
the liquors, properly prepared, the presence was recognized of sul- 
phuric acid, aluminium, potash, and magnesia (lemonade with citrate 
of magnesia had been given to the patient), by means of the ordi- 
nary reactives, chloride of baryum, chloride of platinum, sulphhy- 
drate of ammonia, carbonate of potash, and ammonia phosphate 
of soda. 

Only one case of poisoning by alum, observed by Mr. Taylor in 
England, was known before this, but we have no details about it. 
Orfila mentioils another case of poisoning not followed by death. 
Dr. Ricquet's observation is, therefore, the only complete observation 
possessed by science. (1873). 



46 



Oyc. of Prac. of Med. (Vol. Xyil.) 

Ziemssen 

Boehm-Poisons. Page 380. The reaction of alum with albumen 
furnishes a simple explanation of the corrosive action of the salt 
in the solid form or in concentrated solution. The emetic action of 
the poison also, which we have learned, both from Barthey's experi- 
ments on himself, and from the cases of poisoning that have been 
observed, might possibly be regarded as the consequence of local 
affection of the mucous membrane of the stomach. The great rapid- 
ity with which a case, recently observed by Ricquet, proved fatal, 
and some symptoms noted in previous cases of poisoning (tremor 
of the muscles, spasms, depression, etc.), give us reason to suspect 
that alum exerts also a constitutional action, the more so as in Ric- 
quet's case the local lesions caused by the poison were found at the 
autopsy to be comparatively slight, and entirely out of proportion to 
the rapidly fatal cause of the poisoning. 

In the mentioned case of Tardieu, 0.9 gramme (fourteen grains); 
in that of Ricquet, 30 grammes (nearly one ounce) of alum was 
administered. 

Tardieu (loc. cit.) speaks of a woman who willfully miurdered her 
three-months-old child by administering to it about 0.9 gramme 
(fourteen grains) of alimi. In the majority of the other cases of 
acute poisoning the alum was taken by mistake for other medical 
preparations (e. g., magnesic sulphate, Ricquet). Yon Hasselt states 
that cases of poisoning also arise sometimes from the administration 
of too large doses of alum by order of the physician. The sophisti- 
cation of flour with small quantities of alum, which is much prac- 
ticed in England, appears to have no toxicological importance, al- 
though he finds in it one cause of the prevalence of rhachitis. 

To the three cases of alum poisoning by Von Hasselt, Taylor, and 
Husemann, we must add one case reported by Ricquet, and two cases 
by Tardieu (loc. cit.), all of which terminated fatally. 

Of all the symptoms the most constant are the pains in the cavity 
of the mouth, in the oesophagus and stomach, which are experienced 
immediately after taking the poison, and also the vomiting, which 
comes on very soon, and is, sometimes, bloody. Ricquet also ob- 
served severe dysphagia, torturing thirst, and retention of fsBces. 
Several writers mention great weakness of the muscles, and de- 
pression. The consciousness is unclouded. There is great anxiety, 
and sometimes a convulsive tremor of the muscles is observed. The 
pulse is exceedingly small and frequent. After repeated fainting- 
fits, and after a considerable reduction of temperature below the nor- 
mal point, death ensued inside of twenty-four hours. 

At the autopsy yellowish-gray deposits were found on the mucous 
membrane of the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus; the tongue and 
palate were swollen. The stomach, intestines, and kidneys were 
hypersemic, but without noticeable loss of substance. The chemical 
tests for the poison were repeatedly employed successfully. 



AlUM BAKINft POWDER POISOSING 



Report Dairy and Tood Oonmusaicn, Minn., 1894, Vol. i. 

Page 136. An interesting fact bearing upon the relation of alum in 
baking powders to public health came under my own obaervation this 
eunmaer. Aa far as I am aware, no case of a similar nature has been 
recorded. A family of four persona partook of a breakfast consisting 
principally of corn-cake. The family consisted of the husband and 
wife, age about forty, their mother, aged about sixty-live, and a robust 
boy, age about twenty. The husband said the cake tasted "bitter," 
and would not eat it. The others insisted that the cake was all right, 
and, to prove their assertion, ate perhaps more of the cake than they 
ordinarily would, especially the boy, who ate not less than a pound — 
probably more. While still eating the cake they commenced to feel 
ill, and the wife and boy vomited. The boy was the most distressed 
at the time, as the vomiting and retching continued all day, ejcctinf; 
some blood. The husband, who had not eaten the cake, was unaf- 
fected. The aged mother, who did not vomit, was quite sick for 
three or four days. 

A physician was called, who said the phyaiologica! effects indicated 
a metallic poison. The only new material in the cake they had not 
before eaten was the baking powder. This the cook admitt^ using 
in very large quantities. The baking powder they had received free, 
and the cook was illiterate and could not read the directions. 

I found the powder to be an alum phosphate powder, much de- 
teriorated by long exposure. I found no metallic poison, in the 
usually accepted sense, in the powder. 

I also obtained a sample of the corn-cake. This was found to con- 
tain .2 p. c. of aluminum oxide, or 1.01 p. c. of potassium aluminum 
sulphate, or burnt alum. The corn-cake contained, then, 58.15 grains 
of dried potassium alum, or 106.7 grains of crystallized potassium 
alum per pound apothecary. This is a larger amount than is usually 
found in a loaf of bread made from one quart of flour. Some peculi- 
arity in the method of baking this com-cake must have left at least 
a part of the alum in the form of the soluble salt-— burnt alum. 
This, and the heaviness or sogginess of the cake, the large ciuan> 
tity eaten, and, above all, the large amount of powder used in bak- 
ing, were undoubtedly factors which made the physiological effects 
BO severe. At all events, this case proves that under certain condi- 
tions alum powders may be decidedly injurious to health. 

Cincinnati, April 10, 1870. 

I have met with two cases of poisoning that could be traced to noth- 
ing else but alum baking powders. A Mr. Edwards, wife and children, 
were all made very sick by eating cakes made with it, and their symp- 
toms were so similar to that of arsenical poisoning, that they sup- 
posed they had been so poisoned. The case was handed to me and I 
found nothing in either cakes or powder but alum. 

So also with the family of Mrs. W. J. Breed. 

We are making efforts here to have a law passed by our legislature 
to prevent the use of alum in baking povvders. 

E. S. Wayne. PKD., MJ>. 



L 



BIBLIOGKAPHY OF ALUM IN ITS RELATION TO THE 

ANIMAL ECONOMY 

Action of Alum in the Animal Economy. Medicine Legale, Tome 
3. Paris, 1861. 

On Alum: Its Action in the Animal Economy. Orfila, Traite de 
Toxicologic, Tome 1, p. 336. Paris, 1862. 

Cases of Poisoning by Alum. Journal de Pharmacie et de Chimie, 
4e serie, Tome XVIII, p. 333. 1873. 

Cyclopedia of Practical Medicine (Ziemssen), Vol. XVII, p. 380. 

Bulletin Generale Therapeutique, p. 137. 1873. 

L'Union Medicale, No. 64. 1873. 

Annales de Hygiene Publique, XXXIX, p. 192. 

Annales de Hygiene Publique, II, p. 180. 1832. 

Annales de Hygiene Publique, II, p. 433. 1845. 

Influence of Alum in the Animal System. Schmidt, Jahrbiicher 
der in-und-Auslandischen gesammten Medecin, p. 128. 1886. 

Alum in Flour. Dr. Parkes, Practical Hygiene, fourth edition, 
p. 230. 1873. 

The Digestibility of Certain Varieties of Bread; an Experimental 
Study of the Alum Question. R. F. Ruttan, M.D. Transactions of 
the Royal Society of Canada, Section III, p. 61. 1887. 

The Influence of Alum and the Residue of an Alum Baking Pow- 
der on Digestion. Hehner, Analyst, Vol. XVII, 201. 

On the Poisonous Effects of Alum in Bread. Dr. Gibbon's Report 
to the Holborn Board of Works. Pharmaceutical Transactions, Vol. 
XVI, p. 669. 1867. 

The Injurious Effects of Alum upon the Human System when used 
in Bread and Baking Powder and as Proven by Experiments upon 
Man and Animals. Pamphlet, pp. 36. London, 1879. 

The Effect of Alum on the Animal System. H. A. Mott, Journal 
of the American Chemical Society, Vol. II, p. 13. 

Influence of Alum on the Human System. Bach, Medical Juris- 
prudence, Vol. II, p. 663. 1861. Pharmaceutical Transactions, Vol. 
VI, pp. 661, 611, 612. 1867. Analyst, Vol. XVII, p. 201. 

Experiments on Double Digestion of the Gastric and Pancreatic 
Ferments in Presence of Alumina Compounds. Journal of the 
American Chemical Society, XVI, 687. 

Experiments upon Alum Baking Powders and the Effects upon 
Digestion of the Residues left therefrom in Bread. J. W. Mallet. 
Chemical News. London, 1889. 

On Alum in Bread. Dr. Dauglish, Society of Arts, April 24, 1860. 

On Alum and Bread. Watts, Dictionary of Chemistry, Vol. I, p. 
669. 

Report on Alum in Baking Powders. Reports of the Inland 
Revenue Department of Canada, 1900. 

48 



LANE MEDICAL LIBRARY 



This book should be returned on or before 
the date last stamped below. 



HAY 2 i isea 



