Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



V. 







\ "~'^~*.- ■■ 



\ 



WORKS BY MRa DE SAUS 
ON COOKERY, &c 



CAKES AND CONFECTIONS A LA MODE. 
Crown 8vo. is. 6d. 

DOGS : a Manual for Amateurs. Crown 8vo. is» 6d, 

DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY A LA MODE. 
Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. Crown 

8vo. XX. 6d. 

DRINKS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

ENTRIES A LA MODE. Crown Svo. u. ed. 

FLORAL DECORATIONS. Crown 8va is, 6d, 

GARDENING A LA MODE. Crown Svo. Part I. 
Vbgbtablbs, is. 6d. Part II. Fruits. Crown Svo. is, 6d, 

NATIONAL VIANDS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. 

IS, 6d. 

NEW-LAID EGGS. Crown Svo. u. 6d. 

OYSTERS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE. Crown 
8vo. XX. 6d. 

SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 

Crown 8va xx. 6d. 

SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 
Crown 8va xx. 6d, 

TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES. 

Crown Svo. xx. 6d. 

WRINKLES AND NOTIONS FOR EVERY 
HOUSEHOLD. Crown 8vo. xx. 6d. 



LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 39 PMemoster Row, London 

New York and Bombay. 



A LA MODE COOKERY 








, Soles i la Dundonald. 2. Salmcii en FCu 

3. Salmon a la Verdi. 



\ LA MODE COOKERY 



ri»- TO- DATJ: RECIPES 



KV 

?vIRS. DE SALIS- 



■ftir, "i 'jJtc • (t M it «i»^ fbii'i be !>Jippt» to ■? w «iqii»n' 

DK. I. UN -on 



r \ /•/ A' « "■ r, /y /'. ;/ .^ h . -. /\-: ;.v rL i- .y ( o' ui t\'^ 



\. O S G M \ N S Ci R K K N, A N I ) C O 

NKw you:-: and com'vv 
1902 






M. It 









^ 



^*"H!l3«\»i4,j.,. _ .•4'^n-VilL 



-i»«'-*M**"-' «J- ■-*"'■' 



■': \>-^.- 



^tv- 




^^'• 






.-M 

?r - 












/ 



■"•■*!.■ i- ■ - ^ 



'*y^ -% »y » *■**■— ■■■<■* * jo^^'ig-.!*-** ■».»• «■* — ■••. •«•»-■ 



• 'I- r-..- » b ■■ # .■ f- . . ■•': 

V *» »- r- ■■■.■■» f ■ f ■ •^. 



-i'-X 









■tj* 



LA MODE COOKERY- 



UP-TO-DATE RECIPES 



MRS. DE SALIS^ 

AUTHOR OF THE X LA MODE SERIES OF COOKERY BOOKS 



'Sir, 5 bave eat of it anb fball be ba^pis to bo so aaain' 

Dr. Johnson 



H^/Tff TWENTY-FOUR PLATES 
SIXTEEN OF WHICH ARE PRINTED IN COLOURS 



-.J ^ 



LONGMANS, GREEN, ^3iNp..CQ 

39 PATERNOSTER ROW. LONioOl^/: :: 
NEW YORK AND BOMBAY-^'--. 

1902 



J . - - ^ V 

1 ^ J J ' ■* ' ' ■* ^ -J J ' 

• J - > - - - - 



i ■» t .t i ' ' 



I J ■• 



All ^rights reserved 



^>- , 



,1 



253- 




\ c 



- • * 

• - »* « 



« •• • I, 









fc •■ fc • - 






TO 

THE LADY AUDREY BULLER 

WHOSE ENTHUSIASTIC INTEREST 

IN ALL THAT TENDS TO MAKE HOMES HAPPY 

HAS PROMPTED THE AUTHORESS 

TO DEDICATE WITH SINCERE FRIENDSHIP AND REGARD 

THIS LITTLE BOOK UPON AN ART 

THE NEGLECT Of WHICH WILL MAKE 

THE HAPPIEST HOME MISERABLE 



PREFACE 

Encouraged by the popularity of my little A-la- 
Mode Series of Cookery Books, I have been per- 
suaded to produce the present volume, and I hope 
the feature of the illustrations will render the book 
of special service to many housewives ; especially 
as in the present century, when everything is so 
decorative, and cookery has become a fine art, it is 
quite as necessary to have Plates for cookery fashions 
as for dress, furniture, &c. 

One or two of the recipes from my other books 
will be found again in this, illustrated, which will 
better explain how they should appear when gar- 
nished ; and at any time I shall be pleased to answer 
any questions relating to ' A la Mode Cookery ' upon 
which my readers desire information. In conclusion, 
may I add the words of Owen Meredith, who writes : 

We may live without poetry, music, or art ; 

We may live without conscience and love without heart ; 

We may live without friends, we may live without books, 

But civilised man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without books : what is knowledge but grieving ? 

He may live without hope : what is hope but deceiving ? 

He may live without love : what is passion but pining ? 

But where is the man who can live without dining ? 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Soups i 

Fish 15 

x!«NTR.EbS ••••••• *•• i^3 

Poultry and Gamb 87 

Dressed Vegetables .107 

Sauces 117 

Entremets and Sweets 143 

Savouries and Hors-d'ceuvres 175 

Cakes, etc 193 

Invalid Cookery 205 

Miscellaneous Recipes and Household Hints . . 219 

Terms Used in Cooking and in the Kitchen . . . 232 

Index 237 



LIST OF PLATES 



PLATE 
I. 



IL 



in. 



IV. 



V. 



X. Soles A la Dundonald . 

2. Salmon en F£te .... 

3. Salmon A la Verdi . 

A. Stockpot 

B. <Sans Graissb' Ladle 

C. Straining Soup 

D. Digester 

E. The 'Royal Roaster' 

F. Cutting Macaroni into rings 

for Soup .... 

G. The Crown Frying-pan 

1. Crab A la Twentieth Century 

2. Crab A la Transvaal . 

3. Turban of Trout 

4. Lobster A la Newmarket . 

1. Prawns Months au Naturel . 

2. Savoury Finnan Haddock Patties 

3. Smelts Fried .... 

4. Oyster Patties A la Napoli 

5. Lobster Salad .... 

6. Oyster Aigrettes .... 

1. Truite SaumonAe a la Nor 

v^gienne 

2. Sole A la Stella .... 

3. Cutlets A la Rouge et Noir . 

4. Medallions of Foie Gras A la 

Rosi^RE . . . 

5. Whiting A la Russb , , , , 



Frontispiece 



\ To face p. 2 



\ 



)t 



16 



a 



28 



ti 



40 



Xll 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



PLATE 

VI. 



VII. 



VIII. 



IX. 



X. 



XI. 



1. Pressed Beef A la Cornwall 

2. BouDiN A LA Kaiser . 

3. Chartreuse A l' Alexandra. 

4. Chaudfroid a la Homburg 

A. TOURNEBROCHB A FUM£E . 

B. Clockwork Portion of Above 

C. Eureka Wire Saucepan Lining 

D. When in Use . ... 

1. Lamb Cutlets Financi£re . 

2. Dressed Tongue 

3. Cutlets A la Pompadour . 

4. Kidneys Stewed with Mushrooms 

5. Veal Cutlets A la Dundonald . 

1. Medallions of Chicken A l/ 

Audrey 

2. Chartreuse A l'Echec 

3. Swans A la Henley 

4. Cutlets A la General 

1. Melange A l'Empire . 

2. TORPEDOS . . . • 

3. TiMBALE OF Macaroni . 

4. Medallions A la Diana . 

A. Boiled Fowl 

B. Roast Pheasant . 

C. Roast Partridges 



To face p. 46 



XII. I. Little Aspics of Wild Duck. 

2. Chicken A la Tombeau . 

3. Blanc Mange of Pheasant . 

4. Prawns A la * de Salis ' . 

5. Chicken A la CHANCELLifeRE 

XIII. A. Roast Pigeons 

B. Roast Goose 

C. Roast Fowl .... 



1 



48 



)> 



68 



)> 



78 



f> 



80 



>> 



86 



M 



88 



)t 



90 



LIST OF PLATES 



••• 
Xlll 



PLATB 
XIV. 



1. Pork Cutlets A la Berlin . 

2. CrIme OB Vbau Porte Vbinb . 

3. Crbme db Lapin * 100 UP * 

4. Mousse db Volaillb St. Andrew 

5. Lobster X la United Service 



XV. A. Asparagus 

B. Asparagus Tongs . 

C. Rack for serving Asparagus on 

D. Sauceboat .... 

E. Potato Straws .... 

F. Stuffed Tomatoes . 

G. Spinach with Hard-boiled Eggs 

XVI. A. Vegetable Rack . 

B. Asparagus Saucepan . 

C. Brooklyn Boiler . 

D. Brooklyn Fluted Crust Bread- 

pans 

E. Raisin Stoner 

XVII. A. Gourmet Boila 

B. Gourmet whilst Cooking 

C. Pie-dish 

D. Queen's Pudding-boiler . 

E. Chafing-dish .... 

F. Salamander .... 

XVIII. I. Ballettes a la Billard 

2. Chartreuse A la Reine . 

3. Petits GAteaux a l'Elys^e . 

4. Balleti'es a la Joujou 

XIX. I. Corbeilles de Fantaisie 

2. COQUEMBOUCHE D'ORANGE . 

3. Harlequin Jelly . 



To fact p. 96 



\ 



>> 



>> 



»* 



91 



II 



108 



IIO 



120 



144 



152 



XIV 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



PLATE 

XX. 



XXI. 



XXII. 



I. 

2. 

3- 

4. 

5- 
6. 

7- 
8. 

9. 

I. 
2. 



Sweet Poached Eggs . . 
Neapolitan Cream . . . . 
Jugged Hare k la Surprise 
Rhubarb Jelly and Banana Cream 
Ocean Flowers . 
Surprise Mushrooms 
Eggs en Surprise 
RoGNONS k LA Curio 
Macedon Jelly . 

Tartlets Bizarre 
Cigarettes k la Royale . 
Fish Balls A la Bizarre 
Pork au Nid . 



I. 
2. 

3- 

4- 

5. 
6. 

7. 
8. 



Cake aux Pistaches . 
Californian Jelly . 
Cornucopia A la S^vignA 
Frontignac Jelly . 
Apricot Cream A la Princesse . 
Cake A la Cerise . 
Raspberry Jelly A la Dieppe . 
Cake Glac£ .... 

XXIII. I. Red and White Currants 
Dessert .... 
Brandy Cherries Iced . 
Melon Cut for Serving 
Mac£doine of Fruit . 



FOR 



2. 

3. 
4. 

XXIV. A. 



PATfi DE FOIE GRAS 

B. Sucking Pig 

C. Calf's Head . 



>- Tofacep, 156 



>» 



190 



\ 



»> 



194 



f} 



220 



»f 



224 



SOUPS 



' spoon-meat, bespeak a long spoon ' 

Comedy of Etrors 



*jC*est la soupe qui fait le soldat ' 



W 




A, Slockpot ; B, 'Sans Graisse' I^lc ; C, Straining Suup; D, Digeslei 

E, The ' Royal Roaster' ; F, Cutting Macaroni inlo litig^ toi ^aiiii^ ■, 

G, The Crown f'lying-pan. 



SOUPS AND SOUP-MAKING 

The origin of soup lies in the obscurity of the Dark 
Ages, for it is one of the earliest culinary preparations 
we meet with. We read of a mess of pottage in the 
Bible, and it is recorded that when Duguesclin fought 
William of Blancbourg he ate three wine soups in 
honour of the Holy Trinity. 

Grimod de la Reyni^re said that soup was to 
dinner what a portico is to a palace or an overture 
to an opera : it is not only the commencement of a 
feast, but should give an idea of what is to follow. In 
France one always gets the perfection of soups and 
broths, because a French cook will make a delicious 
soup from a bunch of herbs and water in which an 
egg has been boiled, which proves that a good soup 
may be made almost from anything. 

The great factor in making soups is the careful 
preparation of them, to thoroughly understand the 
difference between bouillon and consomm^ and to 
have a pot-au-feu, stock-pot, or soup-digester, always 
on the stove. Bouillon is a beef broth ; the consomm^ 
is the same which has been doubled with veal and 
fowl, the former to give it gelatine, the latter to give 
it flavour. The water in which meat, poultry, or fish 
has been boiled makes a good foundation for soups, 
adding gravy, meat, bones, poultry trimmings and 
ham bones ; the stock or water should double the 

B2 



4 COOKERY X LA MODE 

meat, a quart for every pound. In soup-making 
it IS important to have a good wire sieve instead of 
a colander, which cooks are so fond of using. 

On the stock of course greatly depends the good- 
ness of the soup, whether brown or white. I consider 
that a portion of cooked meat flavours the soup more 
highly than when only raw meat is used. 

One of the chief things to remember is to keep 
the flavours equal and not to allow any one in par- 
ticular to predominate. Salt is best added just 
before taking the soup off* the stove, as it is apt to 
harden the meat and prevent the flow of the juices. 
Fat should never find its way into the stock-pot by 
any chance. 

The stock should always be made the day before 
it is wanted and the ingredients simmered for about 
ten hours, after which it should be strained through 
a hair sieve into a basin and the fat skimmed off" next 
day. After removing the fat a damp hot cloth must 
be passed over it to absorb every particle of fat, and 
the piece at the bottom of the basin, where there is 
generally a little sediment, must be cut off*, when the 
stock must be returned to the stock-pot or digester 
with the addition of the flavourings. 

When soups are boiled they will never clear with- 
out the adjuncts of the whites and shells of eggs and 
a jelly bag, though the latter is not necessary, asa table 
napkin dipped in hot water and laid over a tammy sieve 
answers the purpose much better. A few giblets boiled 
in with the other ingredients give richness as well as 
a good colour when clear soup is required. 

Skimming is another necessity which so many 



SOUP 5 

cooks are so fond of shirking. The * sans-graisse 
soup-ladle is a most useful addition to the kitchen, by 
which stock can be obtained without any fat which 
might be on the top. The ladle is plunged rapidly 
into the stock, bottom part first, until the stock 
reaches the top of the spout outside, then bent a 
little to the side, where the spout is, so as to facilitate 
the liquid running up. (See Plate II.) 

A tiny pinch of sugar stirred into the soup when 
it is ready for table is often an improvement, but 
of course much depends upon the quantity of sac- 
charine matter the vegetables contain. 

I have only given recipes for a few soups, as in the 
multitude of cookery books most excellent ones are 
to be found, and the few I have selected are the most 
popular at present. 



Bonne Femme Soup 

Take two lettuces, two leaves of sorrel, four sprigs 
of tarragon, four sprigs of chervil ; wash and shred 
them finely. Cut a cucumber in half, peel it and cut 
it into thin slices, and then shred it with a sharp knife. 
Melt in a stewpan half an ounce of butter and place 
in the shredded vegetables, and let these stew for five 
minutes. Sprinkle them with half a salt-spoonful of 
salt and a salt-spoonful of castor sugar. Watch to see 
the vegetables do not discolour. Put into a sauce- 
pan a quart of white stock and let it boil, and when 
it is quite boiling pour it into the stewpan with the 
vegetables and let all boil gently for ten minutes till 
the vegetables are tender. Take the pan off the fire 



6 COOKERY X LA MODE 

and let it cool a little, then add a liaison of the yolks 
of three eggs well beaten, into which a gill of cream 
has been stirred, and strain through a sieve into a 
stewpan. Warm up and serve. 

Calfs-tail Soup 

Cut two calves' tails into three or four pieces. Put a 
piece of butter the size of a pigeon's egg into a stew- 
pan with a turnip, two carrots, three onions, a head of 
celery, a bouquet garni, and half a pint of white stock. 
Add the calves' tails and cook till the bottom of the 
stewpan shows a light glaze ; keep stirring ; then add 
a couple of ounces of flour, which must be well stirred 
in ; then add a quart of white stock, stir every now 
and then till it boils, skim well, and then let it simmer 
till the tails are tender. Take out the tails, add a 
little salt, cayenne, and the strained piece of a lemon ; 
strain through a sieve, and put into the tureen with 
the pieces of calves' tails. Give a boil up and serve. 
A glass of sherry and a table-spoonful of cream im- 
prove this soup. 

Lambs' tails can be used in the same way to 
make lamb's-tail soup. 

Cauliflower Soup k la Spagna 

Take a large cauliflower, boil, and divide it into 
neat little branches ; cut a turnip and a carrot into 
small egg-shaped pieces the size of olives. Add a 
sliced truffle and some sliced celery, and boil ; then 
drain and place them in a stewpan with six ounces of 



SOUP 7 

butter, a small onion, two cloves, with salt and 
pepper to taste. Add some good fish stock and let 
all simmer together very gently. When the onion is 
soft, take it out. Have ready a purfe of split peas, 
which stir into some clear fish stock. 

Place the vegetables in the tureen with some 
fried dice-shaped sippets. Pour the soup over and 
serve very hot. 

Cock-a-leekie 

Wash one dozen leeks, and cut them into Julienne 
strips ; also have the water a chicken has been boiled 
in, and take the breast of the chicken and cut it into 
thin strips. Have ready two quarts of the chicken 
broth. Let it boil fast. Add the leek strips and let 
them boil for three hours ; then add the strips of fowl 
and let all slowly boil up.^ 

If a pur^e is desired, the leeks must be rubbed 
through a fine sieve, boiled up, and cream added. 



Her Majesty's Soup 

Take some poultry giblets that have been well 
washed and scrubbed, and put them into a stewpan 
with boiling water, to blanch for five minutes, and 
put them into cold water ; then take them out and 
put them into a quart of white stock, with two onions, 
one carrot, one turnip, one bouquet garni, two cloves, 
and some mignonette pepper ; let the whole boil 
for two hours, skimming occasionally. Mix a table- 
spoonful of flour with a little cold stock, put it into a 



8 COOKERY 7l la MODE 

clean stewpan with an ounce of butter, and let it cook 
for a few minutes ; then add the stock, in which has 
been put a dust of cayenne, six drops of lemon- 
juice and a dessert-spoonful of Victor sauce. Let the 
whole boil up, and strain into the tureen. 

Genoa Soup 

Wash thoroughly a moderate-sized bunch of 
borage, two large cabbage lettuces, and a beetroot, 
and cut them up. Dissolve four ounces of butter in 
a stewpan, and add the vegetables, and let them stew 
for about fifteen minutes. Add half a pint of fish 
stock, and let all boil gently for half an hour ; then 
skim well and remove the pan from the stove and let 
it cool. Beat up four eggs and mix them with the 
cooled vegetables, add half an ounce of grated Par- 
mesan, half a pint of cream, salt and pepper to taste. 
Thoroughly mix these ingredients ; then put them 
into a gourmet boiler, and place it in a saucepan 
of boiling water till cooked ; then take it out, and 
divide the ingredients into unequal portions in a soup 
tureen, and pour over clear fish soup. 

Indian Soup 

Take the white meat from a couple of fowls which 
have been roasted and well basted with butter, pound 
it in a mortar with two ounces of sweet almonds, 
the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, pepper and 
salt to taste. Then take three ounces of bread- 
crumbs soaked in milk and mix with them two 



SOUP 9 

ounces of grated Parmesan ; when these are tho- 
roughly pounded and mixed, pass through a sieve, 
add a little flour, and when well mixed make this 
paste into very small balls and boil them in butter 
and water ; drain and place them in a soup tureen 
and pour over very good clear soup. 

Kidney Soup k la Auckland 

Cut an ox kidney into thin slices, season these 
with salt and pepper, dredge a little flour over them, 
and fry them in butter till nicely browned. 

Pour over them as much boiling water as will 
cover them, and simmer gently for an hour. Take 
out the kidney and cut it into small pieces and 
replace them into the saucepan with two quarts of 
stock, two turnips, two carrots, one onion, three sticks 
of celery (all cut small), and a small bunch of savoury 
herbs. 

Simmer slowly for an hour and a half, then take 
out the herbs, add a table-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup, the same of port wine, a little Reading sauce, 
and very little salt and pepper, and thicken the soup 
with a lump of butter rolled in flour. 

Leek Soup 

Take two dozen leeks, cut the white and tender 
green parts into rounds half an inch long. 

Have ready two quarts of good white stock well 
flavoured, let it boil, then add the pieces of leek, and 
let them boil slowly for three hours. 



lO COOKERY A LA MODE 

Leek Soup k la Reine 

Trim and wash off all the green parts of about six 
to eight leeks, and cut the white pieces into rounds. 
Blanch them, put them into a saucepan with a 
quarter of a pound of butter, and stir over the fire 
for about three minutes ; add some good white 
stock, about two pints ; boil till cooked. Then rub 
them through a fine hair sieve. Add a pint of white 
sauce and cook for about twenty minutes. Keep 
stirring all the time. Add pepper and salt to taste. 

Let it cool, then add the yolks of two eggs 
well beaten, a gill of cream, strain into the soup, 
and stir over the fire till it is smooth and as thick 
as cream. But be sure not to let it boil. Serve 
fried bread with it cut in the shape of small dice. 



Lentil Soup 

Take a quart of lentils, put them in a stewpan 
with a slice of ham in good stock, add a carrot, an 
onion, a turnip, and a head of celery. Let all boil 
together slowly for three or four hours. Then rub 
the soup through a sieve, and place it back in the 
saucepan to boil ; then draw it to the side of the stove, 
skim it, and boil up again ; serve with fried bread 
cut to the size of dice. 

Macaroni Soup 

Soak macaroni in salt and water, and boil it in a 
little clear stock. When cooked, cut it up into very 



SOUP I I 

tiny rings, rinse them in warm water, place them at 
the bottom of the tureen, and pour over some boil- 
ing clear soup. Grated Parmesan should be handed 
with the soup. (See Plate II.) 

Consomm^ k la Monte Carlo 

Make a good clear soup flavoured with trimmings, 
carcases, and bones of game, and put into it just before 
serving little custards made in four colours. Cut them 
into the shapes of diamonds, hearts, spades, and clubs. 
The yellow are made with the yolk of egg only, 
poached in a little stock, the white with the whites, 
and the pink and green with the white of egg tinted 
with cochineal and sap-green colourings. 

Mushroom Soup 

Have ready some good veal broth ; bring to the 
boil. Have ready some well-washed mushrooms, 
allowing half a pound of them to one pint of broth. 
Chop them up with a Spanish onion, also cut up 
small ; put them into the boiling stock, and boil 
hard for a quarter of an hour. Then pass all through 
a sieve ; add a thickening of flour, milk, and butter, 
pepper and salt to taste. When thick enough, place 
the saucepan on the side of the fire, and when cool- 
ing add the yolks of three eggs beaten up in a 
table-spoonful of cream. A squeeze of lemon and a 
little mushroom ketchup added is thought to be an 
improvement 



12 COOKERY X LA MODE 

Mushroom and Lobster Soup 

(Naples Recipe) 

Take a large lobster and divide it into two pieces 
lengthways, extract the two tail-pieces and put apart, 
but pound all the rest of the flesh. Put the shells 
into water and boil them, then drain away the water 
and add it to the pounded lobster. Now put a 
large head of celery, a small bunch of parsley, two 
parsnips cut in four, one medium-sized onion, two 
bay- leaves, six ounces of finely minced tomatoes, 
two cloves, half a pound of fresh butter, and boil all 
together till cooked. Take three pounds of button 
mushrooms, wash them in water and lemon juice, 
cook and slice them and put them apart. Pass the 
soup through a hair sieve, fry some bread cut into 
dice, place them in the tureen with the mushrooms 
and the tail part of the lobster cut into pieces. 
Pour the purte over them and serve very hot. The 
pur6e should be of the consistency of good thick 
cream. 

Mutton Soup 

Boil half a teacupful of Scotch barley till 
tender in a quart of good mutton broth, two onions, 
two shalots, two carrots, one turnip, a table-spoonful 
of parsley, all cut up very finely, and pepper and salt 
to taste. Put in some neck cutlets from the mutton 
into the soup, neatly trimmed and without fat, and 
let all stew well. Before serving, thicken the soup 
with a teacupful of cream, added cold, then boil up. 



SOUP 1 3 

Sago Soup k la Crime 

Put one pint of white stock on to boil in a stew- 
pan ; then take one ounce of prepared crushed sago 
and stir it in gradually when the stock boils ; after 
which move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and 
let all simmer till the sago is quite clear. Beat up 
the yolks of two eggs with two table-spoonfuls of 
cream, and stir in, and then strain the mixture into 
another basin. Remove the stewpan from the fire 
and let it cool ; when cool, add gradually three 
table-spoonfuls of the egg liaison, stirring all the time, 
taking great care the eggs do not curdle, then add 
the rest of the stock, stirring well, and add pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Sheep's-head Broth 

Choose a fat young head and four trotters well 
cleaned. Scrape and soak them in cold water, then 
split the head in halves, remove the brains and eyes, 
and cut out the gristle inside the nose. Leave the 
trotters in water till required. Tie the two halves of 
the head together to keep the tongue in its proper 
place. Lay the head in a saucepan with two pounds 
of scrag of mutton, a breakfast-cupful of barley, a 
quarter of a pint of pea-powder, a little salt, and a 
gallon of water. Boil gently, carefully skimming. 
After the head has boiled an hour, put in the trotters, 
and after two hours, add two carrots, two turnips, two 
onions, and a few sticks of celery all sliced together. 
Boil the head for three and a half hours very slowly^ 
serve on a dish with the trotters round, put the brains 



14 COOKERY X LA MODE 

into the soup whilst it is boiling and simmer for 
fifteen minutes ; put the soup into a tureen, take out 
the brains and make them into forcemeat balls fried ; 
the he^ and tongue should be served separately 
covered with a brown piquante sauce. 



Tomato Soup 

First make half a pint of tomato sauce, melt one 
ounce of butter in a saucepan and one rasher of 
bacon ; add one carrot and a piece of onion cut small, 
ten peppercorns, two bay-leaves, and a pinch of 
cayenne ; cook this over the fire without burning, or 
it will spoil the colour. When cooked, add two 
pounds of tomatoes either fresh or tinned, stir all 
these ingredients well, and let them boil till they 
thicken ; when boiled, rub through a sieve ; add very 
little salt. Have ready three-quarters of a pint of 
boiling stock, into which put a dessert-spoonful of 
crushed sago, which must be sprinkled into the stock 
a little at a time, then add the tomato sauce and 
bring it to the boil, but not allowing it to boil after- 
wards. Croiitons should be handed with this soup, 
cut into the tiniest of squares. 



FISH 



*I'll make for fish' 

Tempest 



All fish from sea or shore, 
Freshet or purling brook of shell and fire 
And exqulsitest name ; for which was drained 
Pontus and Lucrine bay and Afric coast ' 

Milton 



i 


iu 


^ 


5r 


^T".^- 




"■abw^tf^ 




^ 


'OOfSpP' 


. 




^ ^ 


io-oosa 


. J 










^ — — — ' 


i 


2. 


^ 


©Ufe 


5. 


^#: 


^ 


^■a^^ - -^''^Bt:: ; 


;^^^ 


« 





FISH AND FISH-COOKING 

Nature has amongst her other works provided an 
unbounded supply of fish for the food of man, there- 
fore it is the duty of us all to know how to cook and 
serve it in different and appetising ways, so that all 
tastes may be satisfied. The flesh of fish is rich in 
nitrogen, carbon, and phosphorus. The first is essen- 
tial for keeping up our bodily vigour, carbon gives 
heat and strength, whilst phosphorus feeds the brain. 

The Germans consider that without phosphorus 
* there is no thought,' and the Jews, who are famous 
for their acute mental perceptions, eat more fish than 
any other people, and yet they are very particular 
what fish they eat, as in the eleventh chapter of 
Leviticus is found the following verse : * Whatsoever 
hath no fins nor scales in the waters, they shall be an 
abomination unto you ; ' and therefore the Hebrews 
or ancient Jews ignored eels, oysters, prawns, shrimps, 
and mussels. 

The ways of cooking fish are many and various, 
and I am giving a few recipes for simple cookery 
as well as for high-class fancy ones; but before I 
describe them I must say a few words on the actual 
cooking of our briny friends. 

There are two ways of boiling fish. The first is 

C 



1 8 COOKERY X LA MODE 

to place the fish in cold water with plenty of salt 
and a little vinegar ; the second is to plunge it in 
boiling salted water. 

The latter way is the more expeditious, but the 
former keeps the quality better. In either case the 
fish should be taken out of the water as soon as 
cooked, and well drained to preserve its flavour and 
firmness. The liquor should be well skimmed as fast 
as the scum rises. For large fish it is best to keep it 
a long time at a gentle simmer. Fish requires the 
greatest care in cooking, as it is easily spoiled both 
in flavour and appearance. If overdone a minute or 
two it breaks into pieces, and if underdone it is un- 
wholesome. In frying fish the fire must be bright 
and clear, and the first thing is to see that the fish is 
thoroughly dry, and then floured carefully. An egg 
should be well beaten up, yolk and white together, 
and the breadcrumbs dry and fine, and passed 
through a wire sieve. After the fish is floured, brush 
it over carefully. Egg it all over with a paste-brush, 
and cover it with the breadcrumbs ; then see that the 
fat is boiling, which can be ascertained by dropping 
a single drop of cold water into it, and if it makes 
much hissing the fat boils, then the fish should be 
instantly plunged into it 

To bake fish, place it in a small baking-tin in the 
oven. Cook it in a little good drippmg, with the 
addition of a few breadcrumbs, pepper, salt, and a 
sprinkling of sweet herbs. 

Salmon should be cooked in boiling water ; when 
it is to be broiled, it should be cut into slices one inch 
thick and steeped in a dish with half a gill of salad oil, 



FISH 1 9 

salt and pepper, and then broiled over a good clear 
fire for twelve minutes each side. 

Turbot and brill should be soaked in cold 
water containing salt for two hours before it is dressed, 
and should be cooked in a turbot-kettle and covered 
well with cold water ; set over a gentle fire, with a 
handful of salt and a gill of vinegar. The scum 
must be removed as it rises. When it boils up, put 
in a little cold water and take out some of the hot ; 
on its once more boiling, if it be not very large, take 
it off the fire, as fish should never be allowed to boil 
too strongly up. But there are so many cookery 
books, as I have mentioned before, that it will be 
needless for me to go into these particulars, as 1 must 
devote as much space as possible to recipes ; but I 
m^y mention that if fish is wanted to be kept hot for 
a few minutes before serving, cover it with two or 
three folds of clean cloth on the strainer across the 
kettle, but it must not be kept in the water.^ 



Boules k la Durban 



Boil a Finnan haddock and flake off the flesh, 
pound it in a mortar with a couple of ounces of 
butter, a dessert-spoonful of either essence of anchovy 
or the liquor from some oysters, and a dash of 
cayenne. Rub all through a sieve, then add two 
table-spoonfuls of fine breadcrumbs, a tea-spoonful 

' There are many more recipes of dressed fish in my little book, 
Dressed Fish d la mode, and the Hotisewife's Referee. 

c 2 



20 COOKERY X LA MODE 

of finely minced parsley, and the yolk of an egg. 
Roll this into balls the size of a walnut, drop them 
into boiling fat and fry a delicate golden colour. 
Pile them pyramid fashion on a dish, sprinkle with 
grated Parmesan, and decorate with fried parsley 
and hard-boiled eggs. When this dish is required to 
be rich, add a table-spoonful of cream and half the 
quantity of butter, and mince with the fish half a 
dozen oysters. 

Canapes k la Brighton 

Cook a Finnan haddock, cut it into fingers about 
one and a half inch broad and three and a half inches 
long ; fry some bread lightly, having cut it into the 
same size pieces as the haddock ; place on each of 
these pieces of fried bread a slice of hot bacon, on 
which put the haddock. Boil an egg hard, pass the 
yolk through a sieve and strain it over the fish, sprinkle 
a little coralline pepper over all, and garnish with 
parsley. 

Codfish k la Moderne 

Take two slices of cod and cut them into eight 
fillets. Roll them round and fasten with a piece of tape. 
Have a mixture made with melted butter, the juice 
of a small lemon, salt to taste, a little cayenne, and 
the juice of an onion. Pour this sauce over the rolls 
and bake in an oven for twenty minutes. Arrange 
round a dish, fill the centre with Duchesse potatoes, 
and serve oyster or egg sauce with it. 



FISH 2 1 



Crab Rissoles 



Take the flesh from a couple of crabs and mix 
with it two ounces of fine breadcrumbs, one ounce of 
butter, and a whole egg. Put this mixture into a 
mortar and pound it till quite smooth ; add a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce and a large table-spoonful 
of cream, roll into balls the size of a golf-ball, egg and 
crumb, and fry in boiling fat. Dish in pyramids with 
fried parsley and lemon croOtons. 

Crab k la Twentieth Century 

Make a panada with the meat ofa crab, two yolks 
of egg, and a gill of cream ; also make a savoury 
custard with two eggs, half a pint of cream, and 
a small shalot. Put some of the crab panada 
into a mould ; put on ice, then place on a layer of 
custard and put on ice again ; add more crab panada 
and more custard till the mould is full. Return it to 
the refrigerator, and, when sufficiently iced, turn out 
with shredded cucumber over it and with mayonnaise 
sauce round it (See Plate III.) 

Crab k la Transvaal 

Line a plain round mould with pale-green aspic 
jelly. Slice a cucumber in slices a quarter of an 
inch thick and about the size of a florin, and cover 
them with aspic cream. Cut a small crescent-shaped 
piece of truffle and place on the centre of each slice, 
put on ice till well frozen. Pound the flesh of a 



22 COOKERY X LA MODE 

crab, season with a little Nepaul pepper and a dessert- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce. Mix in with this half a 
pint of whipped aspic and whipped cream, colour with 
a little cherry-red colouring and some pounded lobster 
coral ; put on ice, and when cold stamp it out in slices 
the size of a florin. Arrange the cucumber and crab 
alternately in layers round the mould and fill in the 
centre with an iced salad of lettuce, cucumber cut 
into pea-shape, truffles, capers, tomatoes, fillets of 
anchovy and some cockscombs. Cover with mayon- 
naise dressing, and sprinkle with lobster coral. (See 
Plate III.) 

Egg Baskets aux Huitres 

Take as many eggs as required, boil them hard 
and cut them in halves longways ; remove the yolks 
and pound them in a mortar with two dozen cooking 
oysters, some rich white sauce, in which a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon has been mixed and a tea-spoonful 
of anchovy sauce, also the strained oyster liquor and 
a sprinkling of cayenne ; put into a saucepan and 
hot them up. When all is well mixed, fill the cavi- 
ties with the mixture. Make some handles to each 
basket with parsley stalks and send to table piping 
hot 



Fish Balls k la Nouveaut6 

Take some salmon or remains of turbot or brill. 
Pound in a mortar with butter till quite smooth, 
then make it into round balls the size of a billiard- 



FISH 23 

ball or rather less. Roll them in beaten egg and 
breadcrumbs ; fry ; after which roll some in finely 
powdered lobster coral, some in very finely powdered 
and dried parsley, and some in truffle peelings. 
Arrange them in assorted colours in a pyramid 
garnished with watercress. 

Lax Savoury k la Harlequin 

Take some dried lax, pound it in a mortar with 
some butter (a quarter of a pound of each), add a 
little pepper ; mould into small round balls the size of 
a golf-ball. Roll them in beaten egg and crumbs 
and fry them. Have ready separately some very 
finely powdered parsley, some powdered lobster coral, 
some yolk of hard-boiled egg and some hard-boiled 
white of egg passed through the sieve. Roll balls as 
soon as fried, some in the parsley, some in the coral, 
and some in the white and yolk of egg. Arrange 
them in a mound, assorting the colours gracefully. 



Lobster Chartreuse 

Line a plain round mould thinly with pale aspic 
jelly. Have some stiff aspic and mix with cream 
and put on ice, and when stiff cut into half-inch 
squares; also have some red aspic jelly made stiff 
enough to cut into squares the same size as the white. 
Make some devices at the bottom of the mould as in 
plate. 

Then arrange the squares of jelly in alternate 



24 COOKERY X LA MODE 

colours like a chess-board round the mould, sticking 
them to the mould with a little half-melted aspic. 
Stand on ice, and when thoroughly cold fill up the 
centre with lobster cream made by pounding the 
meat of a lobster in the mortar with a table-spoonful 
of anchovy sauce, a little cayenne, the lobster coral 
pounded, half a pint of stiffly whipped cream and 
a gill of liquid aspic jelly. Mix all thoroughly 
and add a little cochineal. Decorate the centre of the 
op with a wreath of chervil sprinkled with lobster 
coral, with two or three small radishes and cucumber 
cut into pea-shapes. Garnish with a cucumber salad 
sprinkled with lobster coral. 



Lobster k la Kitchener 

Take some little lobster moulds and line them 
with aspic jelly, into which some lobster coral has 
been sprinkled, then take a small lobster, and pound 
the flesh in a mortar. Mix it with cream and aspic 
and a few drops of essence of anchovy ; also a little 
cochineal to make it a good colour. Fill the little 
moulds with these and put on ice. When ready to 
turn out, arrange them round a salad thickly sauced 
with a thick mayonnaise garnished with beetroot 
and cucumber alternately. 

This dish is very attractive with lobster cutlets 
in aspic, arranging the cutlets round the salad and 
placing the little lobster moulds on the top of the 
salad. Garnish with chopped aspic sprinkled with 
green chopped aspic. 



FISH 25 

Lobster k la Newmarket 

Mask some jockey cap moulds ^ with pale aspic 
jelly and put on ice. Make some aspic cream in 
different colours — red, pink, yellow, brown, blue, 
white — and fill each of the caps with one colour. 
When set, turn out and cut each colour into four 
sections, then fill the caps with four of the quarters, 
putting alternately two colours into each mould. 
Pour in half a teaspoonful of liquid aspic, so that the 
quarters may adhere. Then cut out a little hole in 
each jelly and fill in with lobster cream. Put on ice 
till required to turn out, and arrange them on a bed 
of green chopped aspic. (See Plate III.) 

Lobster Mould k la United Service 

Get a Union Jack bordure mould, and fill it, 
after masking it with aspic, with pounded lobster 
flavoured with anchovy and cayenne, mixed with 
cream and aspic. The pattern of the flags must be 
carried out in aspic creams, red, white, and blue, 
Damson blue must be used for the blue colour. 

The centre can be filled with either a mayonnaise 
or cucumber cut into pea-shapes and masked with 
green mayonnaise. (See Plate XIV.) 

Mackerel k la V^nitienne 

Remove the heads, tails, and centre bones of a 
couple of mackerel, cut them into neat pieces and 

* These moulds are to be obtained at Jones Brothers, Down St , 
PiccadiUy, W. 



26 COOKERY X LA MODE 

bake them in a buttered tin. Arrange them en couranne 
on a dish when cooked. Take some pale stock, add 
a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, stir in the 
yolk of an egg, some butter and a little lemon-juice to 
taste ; stir over the fire till it is hot, but not boiling ; 
add some chopped parsley and tarragon leaves and 
a table-spoonful of claret and pour over the fish. 



Mussels k la Gourmet 

Take some good veal gravy and a piece of butter 
the size of a pigeon's egg, a spoonful of walnut ket- 
chup and a table-spoonful of claret Season with 
cayenne or salt. Then stew the mussels in this 
sauce till done. Serve in little china or silver shells 
garnished with beetroot. 

Mussels Stewed 

They must be washed in several waters, then put 
in a stewpan and covered close. Let them stew 
till the shells open, then pick out the fish and look 
under their tongues to see if there be a small crab, 
and if there be one throw it away ; the tough mem- 
brane under the tongue must be picked off. Then the 
mussels are put into a stewpan, adding to every 
quart of fish half a pint of the liquor which has been 
strained through a sieve. Roll some butter and flour 
and stew gently. Lay toasted bread in the dish, and 
pour the mussels on to it 



FISH 27 

Oyster Aigrettes 

Take some oysters, cut off the beards and cover 
them with batter made as follows : — Beat up a table- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, one of salad oil, and a little 
cold water, with the yolk of one egg, a small tea- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce and a dust of cayenne 
pepper ; then work in sufficient flour to make, with 
the addition of more water, as much batter as required. 
The batter should be of the consistency of thick 
cream. Beat up the whites of two eggs to a froth 
and stir into the batter. Roll each oyster in this 
and fry, and send to table very hot and few at a 
time. Instead of using water in the first instance, the 
strained liquor from the oysters may be used, (See 
Plate IV.) 

Ojrster Baskets 

Make some puff paste and line thinly some 
dariole moulds (as many as are required), and bake 
them ; when ready, put in the following mixture : — 
Take as many oysters as will be required according 
to the number of cases — the deep-sea oysters are very 
good for this dish ; reserve the oyster liquor, cut off 
the hard pieces and beard, and put them into the 
liquor and bring to the boil ; then strain off the liquor. 
Take a gill of milk and mix with it two large table- 
spoonfuls of flour till smooth, then add the oyster 
liquor, a tea-spoonful of anchovy, a tea-spoonful of 
lemon-juice, one gill of cream, a little cayenne ; 
place on the fire and cook till nearly boiling ; keep 



28 COOKERY A LA MODE 

stirring all the time till it is of the consistency of 
cream. Stir in a pat of butter quickly and then 
place the oysters in the hot sauce and fill the baskets. 
Have some of the paste mixed with fine parsley 
twisted into the shape of handles ; bake, and put 
over the baskets. 

Oyster Patties ^ la Napoli 

Take two dozen deep-sea oysters, wash them in 
warm water, mince them finely, then put them into 
a stewpan with a few sliced truffles. Mince some 
parsley and marjoram very finely and add them to 
the oysters, with pepper and salt to taste. 

Make a light sauce with fiour and the yolk of an 
egg and mix it with the other ingredients. 

Have ready some nicely baked patty cases made 
of puff paste with lids to them. Fill the cases with 
the mixture in the stewpan. When cooked, serve very 
hot or quite cold. (See Plate IV.) 

Oysters k la Prince Edward 

Take some deep-sea oysters, drain away the liquid. 
Place in a saut6-pan a good lump of butter. Beat 
up an egg, season with a trifle of cayenne, and 
dip the oysters into the egg and then into biscuit 
powder. 

Make the butter in the saut6-pan boiling, then 
drop in the oysters and fry them till they are a pale 
gold colour, and serve them piled up in a pyramid 
as quickly as possible. 




2. Savoury Haddock Pallies. 

3. Smells Fried. 



FISH 29 

Oyster Rissolettes 

Warm as many oysters as are required in their 
own liquor for two minutes, having first taken off 
their beards. Strain the liquor, make a thickening 
with flour and butter, and put it into a saucepan with 
the oyster liquor. When it thickens, add two spoon- 
fuls of white stock and the same of cream. Now 
mince the oysters and mix them into the sauce, which 
should be thick enough to form a paste. Season 
with a dust of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of anchovy 
and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Have some 
puff paste rolled as thin as possible, cut it into little 
ovals and put a tea-spoonful of the oyster mixture 
into each ; fold them over and brush over with yolk 
of egg and crushed vermicelli ; bake in a quick oven. 
Serve with fried parsley and small quarters of lemons. 

Iced Oyster Souffle 

Take two dozen small oysters ; mince them, and 
rub them through a wire sieve. Blanch and beard 
a dozen sauce oysters, and cut each into four pieces. 
Put two ounces of flour and one ounce of butter 
into a stewpan, and mix well together over the fire ; 
add a gill of the oyster liquor, and stir till it all 
thickens. 

Put this sauce and the pounded oysters into a 
mortar and pound all together, adding two yolks of 
eggs one at a time, a little salt, cayenne pepper, a 
gill of cream, and half a pint of whipped aspic jelly. 
When these are well mixed beat the whites of three 



30 COOKERY A LA MOt)E 

eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them into the mixture 
very lightly, then put in the oysters. Butter a 
mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with buttered 
paper, and steam gently for half an hour ; then turn 
out, when cold, into a mould lined with aspic jelly, 
the same size as first mould. 

- Garnish with chopped aspic, chervil leaves, and 
cherry tomatoes. 

0]rsters k la St. Pierre 

Take some oyster moulds (which can only be 
bought of Jones Brothers, of Down Street), and line 
them with very clear pale fish aspic. Place in each 
mould a good native, and finish the mould with 
a pur^e of pounded lobster coral mixed with aspic 
Place on ice to set, then turn out on a cool border 
made of Brown Breadcrumbs soaked in lemon, a 
little cayenne, and some pale aspic jelly. Garnish 
with sliced lemon and watercress. 

Prawns mont^ au Nature! 

Take a large lemon, cut off one end so that the 
lemon will stand, and cover it all over with prawns, 
sticking the hard part of the antennae into the lemon. 
Fill up all interstices with parsley; round the base 
place a layer of parsley, then rows of prawns to fill 
up the dish. (See Plate IV.) 

Prawn Jelly 

Take a mould and ornament the top with truffles 
cut in crescents and stars ; then put in a layer of 



FISH 3 1 

white aspic cream. When set, chemise the mould 
with red savoury aspic jelly. Put on ice, and when 
the jelly is set, arrange prawns round the sides in 
crescents, with a little round of truffle in the crescent 
Place on ice again, and when set up fill the centre 
with prawns and aspic till the mould is full. When 
served, decorate the base with iced mayonnaise. 



Prawn Rissoles 

Take half a pint ol prawns, shell them, and put 
one ounce and a half of butter into a saucepan with 
one ounce and a half of flour, and a quarter pint of 
water. Stir over the fire till it is a smooth paste. 
Have ready the prawns chopped, stir them into the 
paste, add salt and pepper to taste, a tablerspoonful 
of lemon-juice, and a few drops of anchovy. Stir all 
well together, and then turn out on a dish to get 
cold. Let it stand for a couple of hours ; then make 
it into little balls. Flour them over, then egg and 
breadcrumb, and fry in very hot fat. Mayonnaise 
sauce can be handed with them. 

Garnish with fried parsley and lemon croutons. 



Red Mullet k la Pasha 

(Rougets k la Pasha) 

Soak the fish for about an hour in a mixture of 
salad oil, pepper and salt, finely chopped parsley, 
and a bead of garlic. After they have soaked, clean 
the insides, and mix into this marinade, and work 



32 COOKERY X LA MODE 

in enough breadcrumbs mixed with milk to make 
a paste. Work this mixture through the g^lls into 
each fish. Wrap them up in grease-proof paper, 
well buttered, and broil over the fire. 



Red Mullet k la Livomo 

Place the mullets on a buttered dish, sprinkle 
with a little cayenne and lemon-juice, cover closely 
with oiled paper, and cook in a moderately hot 
oven till done. Chop up two shalots, fry them in 
butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, a bay-leaf, and a 
few sprays of thyme till lightly browned ; then add 
by degrees half a pint of weak stock, a table-spoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of essence of 
anchovy, and half a wineglass of Marsala. Stir over 
the fire till the sauce has thickened ; then let it 
simmer for from six to eight minutes, dish up and 
pour the sauce over it. 



Bombes of Salmon and Cucumber 

Take a slice of salmon weighing rather less than 
a pound, and cook in the oven with buttered paper 
over it When cooked, place on a dish to get cold. 
Take the skin and the piece of bone that is in the 
centre of the slice and put them into a little stock with 
a small piece of onion, carrot, celery, parsley and 
thyme ; let this simmer for three-quarters of an hour, 
then strain it into three-quarters of a pint of velout^ 



FISH 33 

sauce into which a little cayenne and anchovy sauce 
have been put with an ounce of leaf gelatine ; reduce 
these till quite thick, then add a gill of cream ; let 
boil, and strain into a stewpan. 

Next cut up the salmon into small dice-shaped 
pieces and chop up some cucumber smaller still. 
Mix them together and put them into a stewpan 
with a quarter of the white sauce, then put it on ice 
to get cold, and when cold and set, roll it into balls 
or bombs the size of a golf-ball, and mask these with 
the remainder of the sauce into which a little liquid 
aspic has been put, sprinkle them with powdered 
lobster coral, dish them as a pile of cannon-balls, and 
garnish with chopped aspic. 



Salmon en F£te 

Boil a small salmon or grilse, putting an onion and 
a slice of bacon in the water it is boiled in. Tie it up 
with broad tape to keep it in shape. Remove the fins 
before boiling, and the skin as soon as it is cooked ; 
then place it on the dish it is to be served on, and 
cover it entirely with thick green aspic mayonnaise 
cream. When it has all set and is completely covered, 
place across the back three strips or saddles of stiff 
aspic jelly at equal distances. The strips should be 
an inch and a half wide and eight inches long ; the 
centre piece should be coloured red and the others 
respectively white and blue. Make an edging to 
these saddles with tiny parsley-leaves. Take a swan 
mould and fill it with a mixture of cornflour and 

1) 



34 COOKERY A LA MODE 

gelatine and stand it on the red saddle, fastening it 
on with gelatine ; at the head and tail place two shells 
made in the same way as the swan, only in shell moulds 
and turned out. Arrange asparagus fern to represent 
seaweed on either side of the shells, and place a chaplet 
of chervil-leaves round the swan's neck. In the head of 
the salmon stick a silver h^telet piercing two prawns 
and a truffle. Make a border of chopped aspic, and 
place round, and beyond iced mousseline sauce. 
Fill little lobster moulds with lobster cream and 
arrange round. (See Frontispiece.) 

Salmon Puddings Romano 

Take some little fish moulds and line them with 
very clear aspic jelly. Put in a layer of lobster cream 
aspic and then fill in with salmon and anchovy force- 
meat mixed with a red mayonnaise sauce. Place on 
ice and turn out on a border of pale-green aspic jelly, 
and in the centre put some dressed cucumber cut in 
pea-shapes. 

Salmon k la Verdi 

Boil half a pound of salmon and put it into a stew- 
pan with a glass of sauterne and let it simmer till 
cooked. When cooked, pound it in a mortar with a 
teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a dust of cayenne, 
a finely minced shalot and a table-spoonful of AUe- 
mande sauce. Pass through a tammy sieve and add a 
gill of whipped cream. Line some little shell-moulds 



FISH 35 

with aspic ; when set, add the salmon cream and 
place on ice for an hour, then turn them out 

Have some cucumbers cut into pieces two inches 
long, notching the peel to give it a striped look. 
Stand these on a dish, turn out the lobster from the 
shells and arrange one on each of the cucumbers in 
a circle. Have ready some little balls of lobster force- 
meat well rolled in lobster coral and place between 
the pieces of cucumber with the shells of salmon ; 
fill the centre with salad ; dress it over with green 
mayonnaise sprinkled with lobster coral, and garnish 
with crodtons of aspic. (See Frontispiece.) 



Stuffed Sardines k la Proven^ale 

(Sardines Farcies) 

Put some very finely chopped spinach in a sauce- 
pan with a little salad oil, and cook till dry. Season 
with salt, nutmeg, and pepper, and one clove ; sprinkle 
with breadcrumbs, and moisten with milk. Cook 
over the fire till it becomes of a proper consistency, 
then remove from the fire and mix in two or three 
yolks of eggs and two or three chopped anchovies. 
Take off the heads and the pipe or guts of twenty 
sardines, split them open, salt them, and mask the 
insides with some of the spinach. Roll them up like 
barrels and fasten them with thread. 

Take a fire-proof plate, sprinkle it with a pinch of 
minced onion. Pour a very little oil over : place the 
sardines in a row and sprinkle them with raspings, 
moisten them with a little more oil, and cook 

D3 



36 COOKERY A LA MODE 

them in the oven for twelve minutes and serve 
quickly. 



Sardines and Spinach 

Prepare spinach as in the other spinach recipes. 
Pound up with it a dozen sardines. Add salt, pepper 
and a trifle of cayenne. Arrange this flat on a dish 
and garnish with hard-boiled quarters of egg and 
rows of sardines on the top. 



Savoury k la Brighton 

Take some sardines, wipe the oil from them, roll a 
piece of bacon round them and fry them in batter, and 
pour over a thick Momy sauce. A little cream added 
to the sauce greatly improves it. Sprinkle a little 
coralline pepper and dried parsley over all. 



Savoury Finnan Haddock Patties 

Make some good puff-paste cases, spread 
anchovy butter all round inside, then put in some 
dried haddock which has been pounded with some 
butter and passed through a sieve. Make some batter 
as for cheese souffle flavoured slightly with cayenne, 
place it on the top of the cases, put in the oven 
and serve quickly. (See Plate IV.) 



FISH 37 

Shrimps k TEspagnole 

(Spanish recipe) 

Cook half a pint of shrimps and six potatoes 
separately. Make a sauce with six green tomatoes, 
a small onion chopped and a teaspoonful of pepper 
and fry in oil. 

Put a spoonful of vinegar into the water with 
the shrimps after they have been shelled for a couple 
of seconds, then mix them with the potatoes and 
sauce, and warm up all together ; arrange on a 
pyramid in the middle of the dish, and serve a little 
anchovy sauce in a tureen if liked. 

Smelts Fried, Sauce Tartare 

Before frying, draw the fish through the gills, and 
fasten the tails in the mouths and give one stitch 
with some cotton ; season with pepper and salt and 
roll in egg and breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling fat. 
Serve them arranged tastefully with quarters of lemon 
and fried parsley. Cut away the cotton before serving. 

Hand Tartare sauce with them. (See Plate IV.) 

Bombes of Sole k, la Baltique 

Take four skinned and filleted soles, place them 
in a saut6-pan that has been well buttered, cover 
them with buttered paper and cook them in the 
oven. When cooked, place them on a dish to get 
cold ; put the bones of the fish in a saucepan and cook 
them over the fire with a small piece of carrot, an 



38 COOKERY A LA MODE 

onion, a little celery, a bouquet g^mi, and a bay- 
leaf ; cover with good pale stock and let it simmer 
for an hour. Strain this into a pint of good Bechamel 
sauce, in which an ounce of soaked gelatine has 
been put ; reduce this on the fire till of a good con- 
sistence, add a gill of good rich cream and let all 
boil together. Cut up the fillets of sole in small 
dice, and chop up a dozen small white mushrooms ; 
mix these with one-third of the sauce, adding 
pepper and salt to taste, and a dust of cayenne ; 
place on ice to get cold, then roll them into small balls. 
Take the remainder of the sauce, add a little liquid 
aspic to it, stir in thickly some powdered pistachio 
kernels, and mask the balls with it. Dish up like a 
pile of cannon-balls ; garnish with chopped aspic and 
iced lobster sauce cut into little oblong blocks an inch 
and a half long and half an inch wide. 

Soles k la Dundonald 

Fillet as many soles as required, spread lobster 
butter on each mixed with a sprinkling of very fine 
breadcrumbs and minced parsley. Roll them up 
and place them in a French china baking-dish ; 
squeeze a little lemon-juice over, place buttered 
paper over all, and cook them in the oven for ten or 
twelve minutes. When cold, mask them alternately 
with green aspic mayonnaise and Cardinal mayon- 
naise. Dish them on a border of whiting forcemeat 
masked with white chaudfroid sauce, and in the 
centre place shredded lettuce and cucumber with 
salad dressing. (See Frontispiece.) 



FISH 39 

FiUets of Sole k la Rothschild 

Season some fillets of sole with lemon-juice, 
pepper, and salt; cut each fillet in half, cut some 
carrots into the shape of corks, and roll each fillet 
round one of these, and tie them up in buttered 
paper. 

Put these rolls in a stewpan with a gill of sauteme 
and about half a pint of fish stock ; add a dust of 
salt and let these cook for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
then take them out and remove the carrots. Make 
a farce with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
mix it with a little stock in which the fish was cooked, 
and a table-spoonful of whipped cream, which 
stir in a stewpan till it boils ; then add some 
lobster spawn which has been pounded with butter ; 
let all this boil again, keeping it well stirred. Mix 
in the yolk of an egg when cool and pass through a 
sieve, then add a few minced prawns or oysters, and 
mix well and warm up ; garnish with crayfish and 
fried parsley. 

Tomato or oyster sauce should be handed with 
this fish. 

Sole k la Rouennaise 

Take a medium-sized sole, cut off the fins, head, 
and tail, and fillet it ; chop up the bones and skin 
very small ; add a little salt and take each fillet and 
spread thinly on half of it some lobster panada ; then 
fold the remaining piece over, sandwich fashion. 
Squeeze the juice of a lemon over the prepared 



40 COOKERY A LA MODE 

fillets ; cover them with buttered paper, and bake in 
the oven for ten minutes. Make a sauce of one 
ounce of butter and a dessert-spoonful of flour stirred 
together till it boils ; add a little lemon-juice, and a 
gill of cream, and strain it ; arrange the fillets en 
cercle. Mask them well with the sauce, and sprinkle 
lobster coral, parsley, and truffles, and grated hard- 
boiled eggs over alternately. Serve lobster quenelles 
in the centre. This dish can be made with oysters 
or mushrooms instead of lobster. 



Sole a la Stella 

Cook a fair-sized sole that has been filleted 
into cutlets ; cut them into points to resemble star 
points. Mask some with white aspic cream, and the 
others with green aspic cream. 

Arrange them in a silver dish in the form of a 
star, white and green alternately, leaving a small 
round place in the centre, in which stand the heart 
of a lettuce ; put chopped aspic in between the points 
of the star and all round the dish. (See Plate V.) 



Timbale of Fish 

Pick the fish from skin and bone, after it has been 
cooked, cut it into fine dice and mix about half a pound 
of fish with rather more than a gill of white sauce; 
season with salt and pepper, a little chopped parsley, 
and lemon-juice. Mix two whole eggs thoroughly 
into it, put it in a plain greased timbale-mould 




I. Trulte Saumonee i la Norveglenne. 2. Sole a la Stella. 

3. Cutlals il la Rouge et Noir. 4, Medallions of Pole Gras ii la Rosiere. 

5. Whiling a la Russe, 



FISH 41 

Twist a buttered paper over it, and steam (do not let 
it boil) for three-quarters of an hour ; then turn it 
on to a dish, and pour over it a sauce made by frying 
a small minced onion in a little butter till on the 
point of turning brown, mix this with a table-spoonful 
of flour that has been mixed with a gill of stock and 
very little milk. Stir till it boils, then strain and 
return to the stewpan to warm up ; adding a little salt, 
pepper, a few drops of anchovy essence, and a squeeze 
of lemon-juice. Momy sauce can be served with this 
instead of the above. 



Truite Saumonte k la Norv^enne 

Make an ornamental rice socle ; then place on it a 
layer of white aspic jelly well whipped ; place round 
on the jelly very small dariole moulds filled with 
aspic and ornamented on the top with peas and carrots, 
the carrots cut into pea-shapes. On the centre of the 
socle lay the trout boiled and skinned except tail 
and head, place strips of red, white, and blue jelly side- 
ways across the trout ; on the head make a fleur-de-lis 
in yellow aspic cream and in the middle of the back a 
crown of same and a fleur-de-lis on the tail. Garnish 
with cut aspic. (See Plate V.) 



Turban of Trout 

Make a forcemeat of trout with aspic and cream, 
colour some g^een and some salmon colour, line a 
mould alternately with it, each layer about two inches 



42 COOKERY A LA MODE 

thick ; press it well against the sides, leaving a space 
in the middle. Fill this space with some cucumber 
cut in slices and soaked in mayonnaise in which there 
is plenty of aspic ; place it on ice, and when ready to 
turn out decorate it with little balls of lobster cream 
and cucumber cut in pea-shape round the base. (See 
Plate III.) 



Turbot Si la Grimaldi 

Take three pounds of turbot and cut into cutlets 
of equal size. Fry the cutlets carefully in salad oil 
into which has been minced a very small quantity of 
parsley and onion. When cooked, arrange the cutlets 
en couronne and cover each with a sauce differing in 
taste and colour, such as Dutch green sauce, tomato 
sauce, white sauce, and yellow cream sauce. 



Turbot & la H^loise 

Choose a thick chicken turbot, make an incision 
in the side as if you were going to divide the thick- 
ness like a pocket; make a stuffing with chopped 
lobster and cream, a few drops of anchovy sauce, and 
a sprinkling of cayenne ; insert the stuffing in the 
incision. Then, after rubbing the outside with salt, 
put the fish into the fish-kettle, with sufficient boiling 
water to cover it. Let it boil up again, then draw 
the fish-kettle to one side to simmer very slowly till 
done. When done, drain it from the water, sprinkle 



FISH 43 

lobster coral over the white side, garnish with parsley 
and lemon, and serve iced lobster sauce in a tureen. 



Turbot k la Mosaique 

Take three pounds of turbot or brill, cut it into 
small neat cutlets of equal size. Brown them in the 
best salad oil, in which put a vety little minced 
parsley and onion. Great care and attention is re- 
quired for the frying of the cutlets, as they require to 
be constantly turned till cooked. 

When cooked, each cutlet is covered with a 
different sauce in taste and colour. This is a very 
pretty dish if the cutlets are tastefully arranged. 
It is best cold and garnished with pale aspic. The 
following sauces are best suited to serve with it : — 

Sauce piquante (brown). 

Dutch green sauce. 

Tomato sauce. 

Red caper sauce. 

Yellow cream sauce. 



Whiting k la Russe 

Take in weight a pound of whiting without 
skin or bones, pound and pass through a sieve ; 
take three parts of its weight in panada made with 
rice flour, a little salt, and a piece of butter. Pound 
it well in a mortar and add by degrees the pounded 
whiting and half a pound of butter, four yolks of eggs, 
and a little cayenne ; work it all well together. Fill 



44 COOKERY A LA MODE 

a buttered border mould with some of this and 
poach it in fish stock. Make small quenelles of the 
remainder of the forcemeat and poach them in salted 
water with the bones of the fish ; make an extract 
from two handfuls of mushroom trimmings and two 
glasses of sauteme and gradually add to it a pint 
of velout6 sauce ; reduce all this and strain. Make 
a garnish composed of picked crayfish or prawns, 
button mushrooms, soft roes of herrings, and a few 
whole truffles ; when ready to serve, add either cray- 
fish or lobster butter, which pour over the garnish 
and dish all up on the border of forcemeat, which 
mask over with the sauce, and arrange the halves of 
hard-boiled eggs round the cage. (See Plate V.) 



ENTREES 



'"Prepare then a feast, 
And none of the least, 
For we will be merry," quoth he' 

Robin Hood 



*A feast must be without a faulty 
And if *tis not right 'tis naught ' 




1. Pressed Beef a la Cornwall. 3, Chartreuse a la Aleiandra. 

2. Bouditi k la Kalsei. 4. Chaudfrold ^ la Homburg. 



ENTREES AND THEIR MODES 

OF COOKING 

The primary step in cooking is that everything 
should be scrupulously clean, and every cook should 
be persuaded to consider * cleanliness the god of the 
kitchen.' The importance of clean saucepans and 
cooking utensils should be impressed on all cooks. 
And though I do not intend in this volume to give 
recipes for plain joints, yet the knowledge of the best 
way of roasting, boiling, frying, simmering, stewing, 
broiling, and baking is necessary to aid cooks in making 
dishes from the recipes I am giving, as they are the 
rudiments and foundation of all cookery. 

For roasting, if the range is an open one, the first 
thing to do is to get up a clear fire, which should be 
kept up during the process ; though great care must 
be taken when putting on fresh coals not to let any 
fall into the dripping-pan. 

The dripping-pan should be placed under the 
meat before the meat is hung up, with a little good 
melted dripping all ready to begin basting with. Then 
hang the meat on the bottle-jack, the biggest part 
downwards. The joint must be placed close to the 
fire at first starting and basted with the hot fat ; then 
after a quarter of an hour draw back the joint a little, 
but keep basting the meat — the more it is basted the 
better it will be. The average time for cooking beef 



48 COOKERY A LA MODE 

and mutton is fifteen minutes to every pound of 
meat The smaller the joint or bird, the quicker it 
should be roasted. Lamb requires twenty minutes 
for each pound, pork and veal half an hour for each 
pound up to nine or ten pounds. The colour of 
the joint should be noticed ; if pale, put it nearer 
the fire. 

The gravy must now be seen to. Leave the joint 
hanging and take up the dripping-pan and carefully 
pour over all the fat into a basin till the discoloured 
dregs are visible ; pour into the pan a pint of boiling 
water, and wash and rub with a spoon the dripping- 
pan in this liquid. Scrape all the brown specks into 
the water and then strain the whole through a fine 
strainer into a saucepan ; skim off all grease, and place 
the saucepan on the side of the fire to keep hot but 
not boil. Then the joint must be taken down and 
dished, and the gravy should be poured into the dish. 

Game and poultry require a fierce and clear fire 
and constant basting. 

Roasting in a close range has a little different 
treatment, and twenty minutes to the pound of meat 
should be allowed. 

For this there should be a double dripping-pan, 
with hot water placed in the lower pan and the meat 
laid on a trivet in the upper one. Turn the wrong 
side upwards at first, turning it over when the meat 
is about half done. *It should be placed on the 
hottest part of the oven for five minutes^ so that the 
outside may harden and prevent the pieces going 
into the gravy. It should then be removed to the 
middle of the lower compartment of the oven if 




A, Tounifbroohc a Fnmie ; 13, CluckwurW |iiirliiiii of alio' 
C, Eureka Wire Saucepan-lining ; D, Wlivn in use. 



ENTRIES 49 

fairly hot, and be thoroughly basted. As soon as the 
outside is browned it should be covered with greased 
paper, which must be removed just before serving and 
the joint frothed in the usual way. 

In cooking poultry or game in a close range, place 
them breast downwards in the pan, not on the trivet , 
and cover the breasts with dripping an inch thick and 
place a good-sized piece in their insides, as that will 
render them tender and succulent. 

If meat is solid and without bone, it will take 
twenty minutes to the pound to roast In summer 
it takes a little longer time than in winter, and frozen 
meat should be kept in a warm kitchen for three 
hours before it is roasted. 

Whilst roasting, meat should be protected from 
a draught, and therefore a screen should be placed 
round it. Liberal basting makes all the difference. 
There is a scientifically constructed machine for 
roasting called the * Royal Roaster,* which I can 
most confidently recommend. The principle is : the 
steam arising from whatever is being cooked is again 
absorbed into the food, and consequently this roaster is 
self-basting (see Plate 1 1.). As there is no evaporation, 
no drying up, or burning, there will be no shrinkage 
or waste as with an open pan. After the roaster is 
put in the oven no attention is required — no watch- 
ing, no basting or turning — it is most friendly to 
lazy cooks as well as a great help to every cook ; is 
made in several sizes and is very inexpensive. For 
those persons who do not mind expense and like 
everything roasted in front of the fire, especially 
poultry and game, which I always insist on for 

£ 



50 COOKERY A LA MODE 

myself, the * Tournebroche a Fum6e ' is invaluable, an 
illustration of which is given. (See Plate VII.) It 
roasts and bastes at the same time ; it is wound up by 
clockwork ; the bird turns round and a spoon revolves 
and bastes. It is an admirable contrivance, but it is 
too expensive for most establishments, as the lowest 
price is 3/. some shillings. Anyone can see it at work 
at the Atmospheric Churn Company in Bond Street, 
and I often go and look at it from sheer envy, as I 
do not possess one. 

The test of a joint being well cooked is that the 
steam draws to the fire. 

Boiling. — To boil, the great factor is not to let the 
meat boil. When the water in a saucepan bubbles at 
the top and steams, it is boiling. 

Simmering is keeping the water nearly boiling, 
little tiny bubbles every now and then coming up at 
the edges, and it should never be allowed to go beyond 
this state. In boiling mutton it should be put into 
fast boiling water and allowed to boil for five minutes 
to make the outside hard and to prevent the juices 
escaping. Just sufficient cold water should be added 
to reduce the temperature, and then brought again to 
the boil, and when on the point of boiling skimmed 
carefully, then drawn to the side of the stove and let 
simmer slowly. 

The meat should only be just covered with water. 
Boiling time ought to be from a quarter of an hour 
to twenty minutes to the pound of meat from the 
time the water boils. 

Bacon, pork, and ham should be put into cold 
water and brought gradually to simmering-point. 



ENTREES 51 

Turkeys, fowls, rabbits, &c., should be placed in warm 
water and then simmered. 

Frying. — The first thing in frying is to have a 
very clear bright fire and to see that the frying-pan 
is perfectly clean. A deep frying-pan such as the 
'Crown Fryer *^ (see Plate II.); the bottom is made of 
asbestos, so that nothing can burn in it, and it has, as 
will be seen, a wire fryer inside, so that what is fried 
can be lifted out quickly. When fat is hissing in the 
pan, nothing should be put into it until it leaves off 
and smokes. 

All things egg-and-bread-crumbed should be made 
two hours before being fried ; stale bread should 
always be used for bread-crumbing. Meat should be 
frequently turned and the pan shaken during frying 
to promote evaporation of the watery components. 

Everything fried should be drained the moment 
it is taken out of the pan ; a wire sieve with a piece of 
blotting-paper placed over is the best drainer. 

Stewing is the most economical and best mode of 
cookery if properly managed ; it has this advantage, 
that pieces of meat which are in any way tough by 
stewing become tender and nutritious. The French 
are very much given to the use of the stewpan. In 
all good stewing the water should never be thrown 
away, as it contains nearly as much nutriment as the 
meat itself. To stew well, the meat should only be 
just covered with water ; so many cooks object to 
its slow process, as, if properly cooked, it takes many 
hours and in some cases from one to two days. 

> As the asbestos heats very quickly it is apt to get so hot, that 
when removed from the stove it should be placed on an iron stand. 

£ 2 



52 COOKERY A LA MODE 

The old-fashioned French country way of stew- 
ing is the acme of perfection. All the ingredients 
are placed in an earthenware jar, with a tight-fitting 
lid, with very little water. Then place it in the hot 
ashes of a wood fire, where it can be left for hours. 
I always stew in the Gourmet boilers, standing them 
in a saucepan of boiling water on the stove or in the 
oven, as the case may be. (See Plate XVII.) 

Grilling and broiling is cooking over the top 
of a hot clear fire. The gridiron should be put close 
down to the fire, and gradually raised as cooking 
proceeds, to diminish the heat. 

Broiled meat is more savoury than roast. The 
surface becomes charred, and a dark-coloured crust 
is formed, which delays the evaporation of the juices, 
and causes the meat to be as tender as roast, but it 
requires the most attentive cooking. The fire must 
not be too hot, or the meat would be scorched ; but 
it must be quick and clear enough to brown the 
meat and prevent the gravy escaping. The gridiron 
must be perfectly clean and dry, and should be 
rubbed with dripping before it is heated at the 
fire. 

No salt should be thrown over a chop till it is 
cooked, though it ought to be slightly peppered. 
Steaks and chops must be constantly turned whilst 
grilling to preserve the gravy. 

Steaming is for delicate preparations. Whatever 
has to be steamed should be prepared as for boiling, 
then placed in the steamer, with the lid tightly 
closed, over a saucepan full of boiling water, kept 
boiling, and more water added as it boils away. 



ENTRfeES 53 

Braising is a process in which the meat and ingre- 
dients should be placed in a closed stewpan called a 
brasiire, which is a pan with a cover made to hold 
live embers in, so that there is heat above as well as 
below. A few slices of fat bacon should be put at 
the bottom of the pan, and trimmings of veal or 
other meat, rinds of bacon, some vegetables, such as 
onions and carrots, cut into slices, a bouquet garni, 
&c,, over which place what is to be braised, and then 
the lid closed hermetically so as to allow no steam 
to escape. 

Stuffings, Forcemeats, &c. 

These preparations, whether in the form of stuffing, 
forcemeats, or balls, make a considerable part of good 
cooking by the flavour they impart to whatever dish 
they are added to if properly compounded. 

Exact rules for the quantities of which they are 
composed cannot easily be given, but the following 
remarks may be useful and practice will soon give the 
knowledge in mixing them to the taste. 

According to what is required, the following list 
should be selected from, taking care that the most 
pungent articles must not be used in such quantity as 
the others. No one flavour should predominate, and 
if several dishes are served at the same time, there 
should be a marked variety in the taste of the force- 
meat as well as in the gravies. 

It should be consistent enough to eat with a 
knife but not dry nor heavy. 



54 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Forcemeat ingredients are : — 



Essential Accessory 

Cold fowl or veal. | Oysters. 

Scraped ham or tongue. 
Fat bacon. 
Beef suet 
Crumbs of bread. 
Parsley. 
White pepper. 
Salt. 
Nutmeg. 

Yolk and white of eggs well beaten 
to bind the mixture. 



Anchovy. 

Tarragon. 

Savoury. 

Penn3Toyal. 

Knotted marjoram. 

Thyme. 

Basil 

Yolks of hard eggs. 

Garlic shalot. 

Chives and cloves. 



The first column contains the articles of which 
the forcemeat may be made without any striking 
flavour, and to those may be added some of the 
different ingredients from the second column to vary 
the taste. 

A good forcemeat is made as follows : — Mince 
fine half a pound of veal or fowl previously cooked 
and four ounces of ham ; add one teacupful of grated 
bread and moisten with an egg, season with a little 
nutmeg, lemon, and white pepper. 

Perhaps I have written too lengthily upon subjects 
which have been already described in other culinary 
works ; but to make entrees and savouries the know- 
ledge of what I have written is most necessary, as 
they cannot be perfectly cooked without a thorough 
knowledge of the rudiments of cookery any more 
than any one can excel in art and science without 
rudimental knowledge, and the entries' recipes here 
given cannot be successfully cooked without it. 



ENTRIES 55 

Pressed Beef k la Cornwall 

Take about eight to ten pounds of brisket of 
beef, cut it as nearly square as possible, bone it, and 
where the bone is taken out mix in two table - 
spoonfuls of brown sugar and one of salt and lay well 
in. Have ready a large stewpan, put the bones at 
the bottom of it with two shalots, two onions stuck 
with three cloves, three carrots, one turnip, two bay- 
leaves, a head of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. 
Lay the beef on the top, and just cover with water ; 
•bring to the boil, and then let it simmer slowly for 
eight hours. When cooked, take it up and place it 
between two dishes, with a two-pound weight on it. 
When cold, trim it neatly all round, keeping it as 
square as possible. Glaze it, and decorate it with 
aspic jelly as in illustration. It is best to tie broad 
tape across the beef both ways before putting it into 
the pot, it is easier to lift out, and keeps it all 
together better. (See Plate VI.) 

Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms 

Take a piece of rump steak, cut it into rounds the 
size of a five-shilling piece three-quarters of an inch 
thick, and trim. Melt some butter in a baking-tin, 
lay the fillets in this, and let them stand in a warm 
place for an hour or two. Then take them out and 
fry them in very hot butter or good dripping, turning 
them so as to let both sides colour. 

Make some Italian sauce, into which a little 
tomato ketchup and a liqueur-glass of sherry .has been 



56 COOKERY A LA MODE 

added. Take half a pound of button mushrooms neatly 
trimmed and washed. Let the sauce cook till the 
mushrooms are done ; add the juice of half a lemon, 
pour the sauce on the dish, heap the mushrooms iri 
the centre, and arrange the fillets round in a crown 
shape. Place on each cutlet a little pat of mattre- 
d'hdtel butter. 



Beefsteak Pudding 

Make a paste with six ounces of chopped suet and 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, butter a pudding- 
basin, and line it with the suet. Rub the rump steak 
with a clove of garlic ; then cut it into small pieces, 
also a quarter of a pound of ox kidney. Put a good 
handful of flour on a board, well pepper and salt it, 
then roll each piece of steak and kidney in it ; add 
some stock, cover with paste, tie over with a buttered 
and floured cloth, and boil for four hours. A few 
oysters are a great improvement added to the pudding. 

Boudin k la Kaiser 

Take the flesh of a boiled chicken, remove all 
skin and gristle, and place it in a mortar. Have 
some good veloute sauce, and mix in with it pepper 
and salt to taste. Pound all well together, and rub 
through a fine wire sieve. Then put it back in 
the mortar and pour on half a pint of cream and 
half a pint of liquefied aspic. Blend all well together, 
then place it in a deep plain-border mould and put 
on ice. 



ENTREES 57 

Have some sweetbreads, blanch them and cut 
them into rounds the size of a five-shilling piece. 
Simmer them gently in a little Allemande sauce. 
Season them to taste, put them between two plates 
to flatten them. When cold, mask them thickly with 
pink aspic cream, trim them neatly, and alternately 
ornament with little dots of truffle and white of egg. 

Turn the chicken boudin out of the border, fill 
the interior with small salad or a tomato salad, place 
the pink breads all over the top, and have some peas 
which have been coated on one side with aspic and 
place them in a line round where the breads and 
chicken join. 

The outside of the chicken border can be orna- 
mented with truffle if wished. (See Plate VI.) 



Ballettes k la Buller 

Take two sets of calves' brains that have been 
well cleansed and all skin and fibre removed. Mince 
them roughly and cook them in Supreme sauce in 
which a few chopped truffles and pistachio kernels 
have been mixed. Let the mixture get quite cold. 
Have ready some aspic jelly, portions of which must 
be coloured differently, red, pink, yellow, blue, brown^ 
white, orange. Line thickly some ball moulds with 
a different coloured jelly in each, and when firm fill up 
with the brain mixture, place on Iceland when properly 
frozen turn out and arrange en pyramide. Garnish 
with pale aspic and chervil sprays. 



58 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Calves' Brains k TCpicure 

Soak the brains in vinegar and water and put in 
a little piece of thyme. Fry some round pieces of 
bread. Place some of the brains, after draining them, 
on each piece of fried bread, make a little hole in 
each piece of brain and place a piece of red tongue 
in each. Pour black butter over and serve. The 
black butter is made by taking one ounce of butter and 
melting it in a frying-pan till it turns a rich brown 
colour, then add half a teaspoonful of chopped capers, 
half a teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce, and the same 
quantity of mushroom ketchup and a little pepper. 
This can be used thickened if preferred. 

Calves' Feet k I'ltalia 

Take some calves* feet, bone them as far as the 
joint. Put them into warm water to wash away the 
blood, then blanch them thoroughly and let them 
cool, then stew them in a blanc made as follows : — 
Half a pound of suet and half a pound of fat bacon 
cut into dice, a quarter of a pound of butter, the 
juice of half a lemon, one onion, a bouquet g^mi, 
and water enough to cover them. When the feet are 
done, drain and serve them very hot, well masked 
with a rich parsley and butter sauce. 



Calf's-head Fritters 

Cut some neat slices from a cold calf's head. 
Mask them with a batter in which has been put two 



ENTRIES 59 

table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. Fry a pale golden 
colour, dish up en pyramide^ sprinkle coralline pepper, 
and garnish with fried parsley and tiny brain-balls. 



Chartreuse & la Alexandra 

Chop up some tomatoes finely, flavour with a 
bead of garlic and a shalot, which have been rubbed 
through a sieve. Add half a pint of whipped aspic 
jelly and the same quantity of mayonnaise sauce. 

Have some hard-boiled eggs, the yolks and whites 
separately, stamped in rounds. Take a plain round 
mould and mask it with pale aspic, then arrange the 
rounds of egg into tiers, yellow and white alternately, 
till the mould is full. Here and there place a leaf of 
chervil. Put on the ice till set, then fill up the mould 
with the tomato mixture. Place again on ice till it is 
wanted, then turn out and decorate with small salad 
mixed with mayonnaise round. Arrange small 
cherry tomatoes round the top and sprinkle with , 
finely chopped parsley. (See Plate VI.) 



Chartreuse k TEchec 

Take a plain round mould and chemise it with 
pale aspic jelly, then cut some truffles into thin half- 
inch squares ; also make some cream aspic and cut into 
squares exactly the same size as the truffle squares. 
Arrange these squares with a little aspic jelly alter- 
nately round the mould, as in Plate. Decorate the top 
according to the illustration. Take a terrine of p^t6- 



6o COOKERY A LA MODE 

de-foie-gras, scraping off all the fat, and mask it all 
over with a Ravigote sauce thickened with aspic jelly. 
Put the foie-gras into the mould, fill up with pale 
savoury aspic jelly, place on ice for two or three hours, 
then turn out and garnish with clumps of whipped 
aspic. 

When truffles are found to be too expensive, the 
black square can be made of aspic cream coloured 
with Indian soy. (See Plate IX.) 

Chartreuse de Homard k la Randolph 

Line a chartreuse mould with aspic jelly very 
thinly. Make equal parts of tomato aspic and white 
aspic mixed with cream ; cut them into squares an 
inch square or stamp out in rounds the size of a 
florin ; place them alternately at the bottom of the 
mould with a little aspic, and, when set, place more of 
the squares or rounds alternately round the mould, 
fixing with a little more aspic, then put on ice to set. 
When thoroughly firm, fill up the interior of the mould 
with lobster cut up small and mixed with Devonshire 
cream, a little cayenne, and a few drops of anchovy 
sauce, also a little liquefied aspic. The mould should 
be thoroughly iced and then turned out ; sprinkle 
lobster coral over the top. Make some green butter, 
draw it through a dairy cloth to give it a curled 
appearance, and place it in little groups at equal dis- 
tances round the edge of the top with a crouton of 
aspic in between each, and in the centre place a little 
piece of beetroot with three prawns placed on it ; but 
the prawns must be so arranged that the beetroot is 



ENTRfes 6 1 

not visible, a few chervil sprays should be put into the 
interstices. 



Chaudfroid k la Homburg: 

Take a dozen sandwich moulds, line them thinly 
with pale aspic, stamp out some truffles with spade 
and club cutters, also stamp out some red aspic in 
the shape of diamonds and hearts ; arrange three with 
diamonds, three with hearts, three with clubs, and 
three with spades, some with five pips, some two, &c., 
according to fancy. Make some white aspic cream 
and mask the moulds with it. Then have ready 
some veal cream and fill the moulds with it ; place on 
ice and turn out. Make some ham cream, colour it 
with cochineal, and put it in a fancy border mould ; 
put on ice, then turn out. Place in the centre of the 
ham border a Russian salad and stand the cards all 
round, fill in all the interstices with aspic jelly ; cover 
the top of the salad with some curled anchovies here 
and there, sprinkled with chopped aspic. The salad 
should be well covered with green mayonnaise. (See 
Plate VI.) 

Croquettes k la Rhodes 

Get a bottle of prepared cockscombs, warm them 
up in Bechamel sauce. When cold, cut them into 
very neat small pieces and mix in some minced 
truffles ; add some more sauce in which some cream 
has been mixed, and a tea-spoonful of Madeira. 

Have ready some puff paste, stamp it out in pieces 



62 COOKERY A LA MODE 

about four inches square, place a small spoonful of 
the mixture in the centre of each, moisten the edges 
and fold over; press them gently to make them 
adhere, and with the paste-cutter round off the edges, 
giving them a half-oval shape. Dip each croquette 
into egg seasoned with salt and pepper, then roll in 
bruised vermicelli ; fry in boiling fat Dish up en 
pyramide ; garnish with fried parsley. 



Cutlets 'k la Fridalla 

(Cotelettes ^ la Fridalla) 

Take equal parts of ready boiled Spanish onions 
and potatoes and pass them through a sieve, then 
put them into a saucepan with a large piece of butter, 
and season with salt and plenty of black pepper ; 
add a little milk or cream ; stir well, and as soon as 
the mixture is quite hot pile it up on a dish within a 
circle of broiled or sautdd mutton cutlet. 



Devilled Chicken \ la Dante 

Take the pinions, breasts and legs, and gizzard, 
sprinkle them with cayenne pepper and salt. Melt 
an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add a small tea- 
spoonful of mustard, a dessert-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup, a piece of garlic well bruised and cut up, also 
a dessert-spoonful of Worcester sauce. Make it all 
hot. Well score the chicken, butter well, broil it, and 
lay on the sauce, putting it well into the scores ; give 
it one more broil up and serve. 



ENTRIES 63 

Dressed Tongue 

Boil a nice ox tongue for three hours^ and when 
done take oflf the skin and shape it well by placing 
the root against some fixture and running a fork 
through the middle of the thin part into the board 
upon which it stands. When the tongue is cold, 
trim and glaze it lightly, and ornament with savoury 
jelly in two shades of colour. A pretty way is to 
place a strip of pale aspic about an inch and a half 
wide down the centre and put little cross-bars of paler 
jelly over that, and on either side of the wide piece 
of jelly place little pink rosettes, made of cream and 
aspic coloured with a little carmine. These can be 
put on with a forcer or squeezed through a butter 
cloth. 

Chopped aspic and crodtons of the same should 
garnish all round. (See Plate VIII.) 

Ecrevisses k la Parisienne 

Butter some crayfish moulds and line them with 
salmon forcemeat ; fill in the interior some sliced 
crayfish mixed with a little AUemande sauce. When 
the moulds are full poach them and serve them up 
with Cardinal sauce. 

Foie-gras Fritters 

Make some good batter, and take a tin of Philippe's 
pat^de-foie-gras, and cut out some of the contents 



64 COOKERY A LA MODE 

into slices about half an inch thick by one and a 
half long. 

Season with salt, lemon-juice, and a dust of 
cayenne. Dip the slices of foie-gras into the boiling 
batter, and, when crisp, drain and dish them up with 
a little champagne sauce. 



Karl en Surprise 

Take some plain dariole moulds, mask them 
thinly with pale aspic, then line them with some 
cooked Patna rice to the thickness of a quarter of an 
inch ; stand on ice, then fill in with curried shrimps, 
into which a little aspic has been mixed ; stand again 
on ice, then turn out and decorate with red chillies 
minced finely and sprinkled on the top. Serve on a 
border of aspic jelly coloured carmine or pink. 



Kidneys k la Apicius 

After skinning the kidneys split them into halves, 
place them in a saut6-pan with some boiling butter, 
some finely chopped onion and mushrooms, and a 
dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Sautd them till 
all are cooked, shaking them well. Have ready 
some bouche moulds and line them with some 
mushroom forcemeat, place half a kidney in each, 
cover with more forcemeat, and steam them for 
twenty minutes. Turn them out on croiitons of fried 
bread. Boil up the sauce and pour over all. 



ENTRIES 65 

Kidneys 2i ia Belie Vue 

Take tiiree siieep's kidneys, mince and fry tiiem 
in butter ; fry in the same butter some flour till it 
slightly browns. Add a clove of garlic, a table- 
spoonful of minced parsley, an onion, and a bay-leaf. 
When fried, pass through a sieve and give another 
turn over the fire, adding a glass of Sauterne. Sprinkle 
a little pepper over. Place this on some toast, and 
have ready some poached eggs according to the 
number required. 

Kidney Fritters 

Make a breakfast-cupful of nice frying batter, 
and stir in a table-spoonful of finely minced onion, 
a tea-spoonful of mixed herbs, and a small pinch of 
cayenne. Take half a dozen sheep's kidneys, remove 
the skin, and cut each one into three or four slices ; 
season these with a little salt, let them soak for ten 
minutes in either Worcester sauce or port wine, then 
dip them into the batter — which ought to be thick 
enough to stick to the meat — and fry in boiling fat 
till sufficiently cooked and coloured a nice brown ; 
drain well, and serve piled up with a little parsley 
powdered over the top and a few sprigs of parsley 
placed round about. 

Stewed Kidneys and Mushrooms 

Skin some kidneys, slice them small ; and peel 
some mushrooms, trim them, and chop them up 



66 COOKERY A LA MODE 

roughly. Put the kidneys into a Gourmet Boila with 
pepper, salt, a dredging of flour, and a good-sized 
piece of butter and a little stock. Let them simmer 
till getting tender, then add the mushrooms, and let 
all cook slowly till done. Add half a glass of port 
wine, a few drops of Worcester sauce, and some 
chopped parsley. It will take about an hour or an 
hour and a half to simmer. Serve them in an entrde 
dish with a pur^e of potato forced into little pyramids 
all round with a forcing pipe. (See Plate VIII.) 



Breast of Lamb a la Grecque 

Take the breasts of two lambs, bone them ; make 
an incision in the thicker end and fill with a farce 
made of one part veal suet, a little mint and parsley, 
pepper and salt to taste, and two yolks of eggs. 
Have ready a little pale stock well flavoured with 
vegetables and a little Marsala ; cover with buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven for an hour, well basting 
constantly. When cooked, take up the meat, skim 
off fat, and reduce the gravy one half 

Serve with a pur6e of spinach or green peas 
round, and ornament with slices of stewed cucumber. 



Jambonneaux de Poulet k la Florentine 

Make a socle with yellow balls all round, made of 
yolk of egg in aspic jelly, the jelly coloured with 
saffron yellow colouring. Little ham moulds must be 



ENTRIES 67 

filled With chicken cream, but before putting in the 
cream the moulds should be masked with brown aspic 
towards the knuckle, and the other part white aspic 
cream ; place little aigrette skewers where the bones 
ought to go. The socle should be made in three tiers, 
and the cutlets placed round on each ; make a mound 
of green peas in aspic, and place a hcltelet in the 
middle piercing a truffle. 



Cutlets a la General 

Take some lamb, mince it finely, pass it through 
a sieve with some mint aspic cream, minced truffles, 
and Allemande sauce. Line some cutlet moulds 
with aspic jelly, decorating them with truffles, &c., as 
in Plate. When set, have ready some pink and white 
aspic ; place pink on one half and leave on ice, and 
when set put white aspic on the other half. When set, 
put in the lamb mince. Decorate them with little paper 
h^telets ; arrange them en couronne^ with peas glazed 
with g^een aspic in the centre. (See Plate IX.) 



C6telettes \ la Rouge et Noir 

Take some veal forcemeat made with cooked veal 
chopped very fine, mixed with ham also minced very 
fine ; grate some pistachio kernels, pound all together 
in a mortar with some nicely flavoured white sauce, 
then pass all through a sieve and add a gill of stiffly 
whipped cream and half a pint of pale liquid aspic 

F 2 



68 COOKERY A LA MODE 

and place on ice. When cold, line some cutlet moulds 
with tomato aspic jelly, ornamenting them first with 
little designs in truffle. When firm, put in the veal 
forcemeat ; put on ice again till the dish is wanted ; 
arrange on a rice socle iced, and put a water-cress 
salad in the centre. (See Plate V.) 

Lamb Cutlets Financitee 

Take some neck cutlets of lamb, pepper and salt 
them, and sprinkle on them a little finely-powdered 
mint ; fry them ; then drain and glaze them. Place 
them round a croustade with a little paper skewer 
in each ; then fill in with Financi^re ragoAt ; place 
a h^telet skewer mould on the top, the mould to be 
filled with truffled cream of sweetbread, placing a 
cockscomb on the top with the h^telet skewer. Cut 
some truffles into the shape of balls and put one 
between each cutlet. Serve Financiere sauce with it 
(See Plate VIII.) 

Liver and Bacon a la Bourgeoise 

Cut some calf's liver into neat slices, sprinkle it 
with pepper and salt, and parsley chopped fine. Put 
a good-sized piece of butter in the stewpan with a 
shalot, which let remain on the melted butter for ten 
minutes, then remove it and place in the slices of liver. 
Put the pan on the fire and let it cook very slowly 
for an hour. Take some good gravy and put it into 
the pan with the gravy from the liver, and let it boil 




, Umb Cudets a la Flna 
, Dressed Tongue. 



, Cutlets a la Pompado'u. 

. Kidneys stewed "»(\*.V VimsVtd 



5. Veal Cullers a la DundonaW, 



ENTRfiES 69 

up ; then arrange the liver en couronne^ pour the sauce 
over, and place rolls of bacon between every two 
slices. 



Lucullus Patties 

Line some patty pans with good puff paste. Take 
a large truffle and three mushrooms and mince them 
finely with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs cut 
into dice, with a little salt and pepper. Add a table- 
spoonful of thick cream and put a portion into each 
patty. Place the cover on the top and press the 
edges firmly together, then bake for about fifteen to 
twenty minutes in a tolerably brisk oven. 

Medallions h. la Diana 

Take as many target moulds ^ as required, line 
them with aspic jelly in different colours, outer row 
green, next row white, next red, the fourth blue, and 
the centre gold colour, in which a fragment of gold 
leaf has been whisked ; set on ice ; when set, fill the 
moulds with chicken, veal, game, or lobster cream. 
Brush over with liquefied aspic and place on ice 
again ; when properly set turn them out and arrange 
them en couronni on a pale green aspic socle. Fill 
in the interstices with whipped aspic, and in the centre 
fill in with a verte mayonnaise salad. 

This dish may be also made with coloured creams 
or jellies, giving a different flavour to each colour. 

* These moulds are only procurable at Temple & Crookes, 
Motcomb St., S.W. 



70 COOKERY A LA MODE 

In the centre there should be whipped cream sprinkled 
over with grated pistachio kernels. (See Plate X.) 



Melange a rEmpire 

Make some stiff jelly, and, if moulds in the shape 
of cushions are to be had, fill the moulds with them ; 
the jelly must be mixed with cream. I have no 
moulds, so I cut the jelly into cushion shapes and 
force on to the edges with a pipe line of golden 
colour jelly and make the tassels of the same. It is 
troublesome to do, but it makes a characteristic dish 
at a military supper or luncheon. One large cushion 
can be made or half a dozen smaller ones. Stand 
on the top of the cushion a crown. Take a crown 
mould and fill the inner part with red jelly, and where 
the jewels ought to be put in red, green, and white 
jelly to imitate stones and fill in all the remaining 
part with yellow jelly. At each corner of the cushion 
place lions made in orange jelly. Moulds in the shape 
of lions are to be obtained. Two little union jacks 
(paper ones) can be placed at the back of the crown. 
(See Plate X.) 



Milanese Frivolitds 

Boil half a pound of macaroni till tender, butter 
some pretty little moulds, and line them with the 
macaroni placed in rounds. Mince some cooked 
chickens' livers, a little foie-gras, three or four oysters I 



ENTRfiES 7 1 

season with pepper, salt, and a dust of cayenne. 
Add some velout6 sauce in sufficient quantity to 
make a stiffish paste. Fill the moulds with this 
mixture and steam for forty-five minutes ; turn out 
and arrange in a circle. Garnish the top of one with 
chopped parsley, another with grated tongue, another 
with the hard-boiled yolk of an egg, and another with 
the hard-boiled white ; sprinkle chopped pistachio 
kernels over all. Serve a lemon sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 



Mutton Cutlets ^ la Pompadour 

(C6telettes de Mouton k la Pompadour) 

Take some mutton cutlets, saut6 or braise them 
in stock with vegetables in it very carefully. Take 
some tomato sauce and an equal part of aspic jelly ; 
mix well together, and when nearly cold mask the 
cutlets with it, and if necessary let them stand on ice 
till cold. Ornament the cutlets with alternately truffles 
and hard whites of eggs cut into the shape of kites 
and crescents, and lay them all one way, Serve in 
the centre a macddoine of vegetables with mayonnaise 
sauce, and garnish with finely cut aspic and small 
tomatoes round. (See Plate VIII.) 

Mutton Cutlets ^ la Siegfried 

Trim a dozen mutton cutlets, cutting the bones 
short and freeing them from meat, fat, and gristle ; 
season with salt and pepper and fry them in clarified 



72 COOKERY A LA MODE 

butter a delicate brown. Drain and dish them round 
a croustade, placing a truffle between each. Fill 
the croustade with cockscombs, the centre with 
truffles, lambstones, truffles and mushrooms which 
have been warmed up in Espagnole sauce. 



Mutton Cutlets k la Tintara 

Trim some neck cutlets and then soak them in a 
marinade of Tintara claret (Australian), a shalot, a 
small piece of garlic, two cloves, and pepper and salt to 
taste. Let them soak for a day and a half, then take 
the marinade, put it into a saucepan with some 
champignons and truffles. When the mushrooms are 
soft they are done. Strain the liquor, and when cold 
mix in a little flour and butter, and boil up. Broil 
the cutlets, arrange them en couronne, place the 
mushrooms and truffles in the centre, and pour the 
sauce over all. 



Oriental Patties 

(Tartelettes k rOrient) 

Line some small patty-pans with good paste very 
thinly, and fill them with barley (so that they may be 
kept hollow), and bake them for ten minutes ; then 
take out the barley. Skin two dozen prawns. Take 
one and a half ounce of butter, melt it ; fry a shalot, 
and add half a tea-spoonful of flour, one tea spoonful 
of curry paste, and the juice from a small lemon and 



ENTRfiES 73 

a little cayenne. Cook this mixture over the fire ; 
then stiffly fill the cases with it, and have ready half 
a gill of cream, stiffly flavoured with anchovy, and 
place on the top ; sprinkle with coralline pepper. 



Medallions of Pork k la Berlin 

Chop up finely some pork, either cooked or raw, 
have ready a little cream sauce, mix with it a little 
powdered sage and some very finely chopped onion, 
pepper and salt to taste. Take some medallion moulds 
and put in the mixture. Poach them in good stock. 
Turn them out on a border of apple sauce arranged en 
couronne ; serve tomatoes in the middle. 

This dish can be eaten cold if the moulds have 
been lined with aspic and aspic jelly mixed into the 
sauce ; the pork then must have been cooked ; instead 
of poaching, put the moulds on ice, turn and serve 
on an aspic border, and fill the centre with whipped 
tomato aspic. (See Plate XIV.) 



Pork Croquettes 

Mince some pork, lean and fat together, with a very 
small piece of sage and a small piece of onion finely 
minced. Make some sauce Robert and mix in with the 
pork, and cook all together. When done, leave to get 
cold ; then roll into balls ; dust them over with flour. 
Then egg-and-breadcrumb and fry in the usual 
manner. Pepper and salt and a soupgon of dried mint 
should be mixed in the crumbs. 



74 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Pork Cutlets k la Gourmet 

Take a piece of neck of pork and cut it into 
neat cutlets. Cook them, and put thfem under a 
weight to flatten them. Mask them in apple sauce 
in which aspic and whipped cream have been mixed, 
and place on ice ; arrange them on a border made of 
potatoes, onions, and sweet herbs, pepper and salt, 
a little liquefied aspic jelly, and a table-spoonful of 
cream. 

In the centre place some iced tomato cream cut 
out into little rounds or squares the size of dice, 
whichever is preferred. 



Pork Cutlets au Roi 

Cut a piece of the neck of pork into nicely 
trimmed cutlets, season and mask them on one side 
with a forcemeat of sage, onion, and sweet herbs, 
pour a little clarified butter over them. Put the un- 
masked side in a pan, and saute them. When cooked, 
put the forcemeat well on to them and pour a little 
tomato pur^e over them, and just put them in the pan 
again for a minute or two. Dish them up on a potato 
border, and serve apple sauce in the centre mixed with 
cream. 

This dish can be made cold ; putting aspic into 
the tomato pur^e, and masking the cutlets with them. 
Dish them up en couronne on a border of whipped 
red aspic, and fill the centre with apple sauce mixed 
with whipped cream. 



ENTREES 75 

Iced Prawn Curry 

(Kari Glac6 aux Crevettes) 

Take four ounces of butter ; put it into a 
saucepan, and slice into it two onions. Fry them till 
brown over a slow fire, then remove the onions into 
another dish. Have the prawns picked, and rub one 
and a half table-spoonful of curry powder over them, 
put them into the melted butter, and stew over a 
slow fire until the meat becomes a light brown. Add 
as much mutton gravy as will cover the prawns ; 
season with a little salt, then stew over a slow 
fire, and when the gravy has become thick add 
a coffee-cupful of cocoa-nut milk or cream and the 
juice of a lemon, half a pint of aspic jelly, and a 
gill of whipped cream. Mix the whole together. 
Garlic or green ginger may be added according to 
taste. A dessert-spoonful of sweet chutnee is an 
improvement. Put on ice till cold.; have ready some 
boiled Patna rice which has been put into a border 
mould, and put on ice ; turn out, and place the curry 
on the top ; sprinkle pink aspic jelly over all when 
dished. 



Quenelles de Volaille a la Merveille 

Pound a chicken, pass through a fine sieve, and 
add half a pint of cream and a spoonful of Supreme 
sauce ; season to taste. Boil four eggs hard, pound 
the yolks with a fourth part of their volume of 
butter and a spoonful of Supreme sauce, pass through 



76 COOKERY k LA MODE 

a sieve, season with salt and pepper, then a large 
spoonful of very finely chopped ham, and allow 
it to get cool. Take egg-moulds, butter and line 
them with the chicken, then place in the centre a 
small ball of the egg mixture to represent the yolk. 
Close the two parts of the mould, place them in a 
sautd pan, cover them with boiling water and let them 
poach, then turn them out, and dress the eggs on a 
border of spinach ; hand Supreme sauce with them. 
Messrs. Jones of Down Street, Piccadilly, keep 
these moulds. 



Ragollt of Lamb-tails 

Take six or eight lamb-tails and boil them in a 
quart of water to which half a pint of Marsala has 
been added, cut them into neat pieces and then 
brown a little butter, and put the tails in with a gill 
of good stock, two anchovies, one shalot, a mustard- 
spoonful of mustard, and a squeeze of lemon ; pepper 
and salt to taste. Stew these together, then strain off, 
keeping only the lamb-tails, thicken the gravy with 
a little butter and flour, add a little colouring, and 
serve garnished with dried barberries. 



Rissoles of Cockscombs and TrufHes 

(Croquettes de Cretes de Coq aux Truffes) 

Scald and clean a dozen large cockscombs, boil 
them in thin white sauce. When nearly cold, cut 



ENTRfiES 77 

them into dice and mix them with chopped truffles 
which have been boiled in sherry, and moisten with 
the white sauce. 

Roll out some pufF paste, cut into pieces about 
four inches in diameter, bake for a few minutes so 
as to brown them on one side, lay a spoonful of the 
cockscomb and truffles in the centre of each piece 
of paste, moisten the edges with egg ; fold them 
together and press gently to make them stick, dip 
each rissole into beaten egg seasoned with salt and 
pepper ; fry in boiling fat. Dish up in a pyramid 
and garnish with fried parsley. 



Sheep's Brains Roasted 

Prepare the brains by soaking in cold water with 
a little salt for half an hour, remove the caul or skin 
which envelops them very gently, leave them in fresh 
water a little longer ; they should be simmered in 
about a pint of water, seasoned with a table-spoonful 
of vinegar, a clove of garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, and half 
a tea-spoonful of sugar, pepper, and salt. When the 
brains are done, drain and dry them, cut each one in 
half lengthways, brush over with yolk of egg and roll 
them in fine bread-crumbs seasoned with minced 
parsley, then sprinkle them with clarified butter and 
bread-crumbs again. Put each piece of brain on a 
small slice of bacon, place them in a baking-dish, 
and set them in a well-heated oven for about half an 
hour, basting occasionally. When nicely browned 
lay the slices of bacon on toast, put the brains on the 



78 COOKERY A LA MODE 

top of the bacon and serve with tomato sauee in a 
tureen. 



Swans k la Henley 

Take some swan-moulds and line them with the 
palest aspic jelly, then make some veal cream in the 
same way as for chicken cream, but putting into the 
cream half a pint of pale aspic. Colour a little of 
the cream yellow with apricot yellow, and fill in the 
beaks with it. Cut a tiny piece of truffle, and place 
at the end of the beak, joining the head, a small piece 
of truffle for the eye ; put on ice, and when the aspic, 
&c., is well frozen, fill up the moulds with the veal 
cream, close the moulds and fasten them together 
tightly and put on ice ; the necks must be made 
extra stiff*. Have ready some pale aspic jelly, and 
place it on the silver dish ; it must be very even, so as 
to resemble water. Turn the swans out and arrange 
them on the jelly as if swimming. Cut out some of 
the jelly, which must be coloured yellow, into the 
shape of water-lilies, and some leaves in green jelly, 
and place about here and there in clumps. Arrange 
parsley stalks like rushes ; a little gelatine will make 
them adhere and stand upright. (See Plate IX.) 



Sweetbreads k la Supreme 

(Ris de Vcau a la Supreme) 

Take two plump sweetbreads, put them into 
salt and water and bring them to the boil, and put 




1 . Medallions of Chicken a la Audrey. 3. Swans i\ \a Heu\ei . 

2. Chartreuse a J'Echec. 4. Cullels a \a OeTitiaX. 



ENTRfiES 79 

them between two plates to flatten them ; cut off all 
the gristle underneath ; then cut them into rounds the 
size of a crown piece, cook them in half a pint of good 
stock, with some carrot and turnip cut small. Bring 
them to the boil, then simmer for twenty minutes ; 
when done, drain and dish them up in a potato 
border, and pour on a white mushroom sauce the 
bottled button mushrooms should be used. 



Timbale of Macaroni 

Take half a pound of Naples macaroni, boil it till 
quite soft, drain it on a cloth, cut it in pieces half an 
inch long ; well butter a plain mould, line it with 
buttered paper, place in the macaroni endways so as 
to give the appearance of honeycomb when turned 
out. Make a paste by putting a gill of water, a 
small piece of butter, and a little salt into a stewpan 
to boil. When boiling, throw into it a table-spoonful 
of flour, leave it a few minutes, then stir in one egg, 
and turn it out on a plate till wanted. Take a pound 
of veal cutlet or any meat or poultry, pound the 
meat in a mortar, and add to it half the quantity of 
paste and a quarter of the quantity in butter, with salt, 
pepper, and a sprinkling of lemon-peel and cayenne 
and parsley. Mix all together, add one egg and 
three yolks, pass through a wire sieve, stir in a gill 
of white sauce, place it in the mould and steam 
for half an hour. Serve with truffle sauce. (See 
Plate X.) 



8o COOKERY A LA MODE 

Tomedos 31 la Natal 

Take a fillet of beef^ and cut into rounds the size 
of a five-shilling piece and one inch thick ; see that 
they are all the same size. Make some croiitons of 
fried bread just a size laiger than the little fillets. 
Scoop out the centre to the size of a shilling and 
within a quarter of an inch of the bottom, which 
fill with a thick Ravigote sauce. Cook the fillets in 
oiled butter and season them with pepper and salt 
When cooked, place the tomedos on each croftton, 
lay a slice of foie-gras on the top of each, and above 
that a thick slice of truffle. Surround them with a 
sauce made as follows. Cut a carrot small, onion 
and shalot into slices, add to which a slice of fat 
ham, cut small two cloves, a sprig of lemon thyme, 
and parsley, pepper and salt, fry all these in a rich 
Espagnole sauce, into which a table-spoonful of tomato 
conserve has been added ; let all simmer for half an 
hour, strain and add a tea-spoonful of Marsala and 
serve en couronne^ with Financiere of truffles and cocks- 
combs in the centre dressed with silver h^telets. 



Torpedoes 

Cut up three ounces of cold chicken and two 
ounces of cooked ham and two hard-boiled eggs 
into dice. Mix them with a gill of rich white sauce, 
stir in also some truffle peelings, a few pistachio 
kernels cut in half, salt and pepper to taste, and a 
tea-spoonful of lemon juice. Whip a gill of cream 




1, Mtlangea I'Empire, 3. Timbale of Macaroni. 

2. TorpQdos. 4. Medallions h la Diana. 



ENTRIES 8 1 

till very stiff, and stir lightly into the other ingre- 
dients. Fill small ramequin cases with the mixture, 
and decorate the top of each with chopped truffle, 
the yolk of egg passed through the sieve, or with 
coralline pepper. 

If the little silver saucepans to hold ramequin 
cases are handy, the appearance of the dish is much 
improved. 

Truffle peelings can be bought already chopped. 
(See Plate IX.) 



Sv^eetbreads k la Potosi 

Take a pair of sweetbreads, blanch them and piqu6 
them with strips of truffle ; then place them in a 
braising-pan with a slice of fat ham, a carrot, and 
a turnip ; add some nicely flavoured pale stock, and 
cook them slowly. 

Have ready a plain round mould, well buttered, 
and arrange round the sides of it pieces of carrot 
and turnip cut into rounds the size of a florin, which 
have been cooked in salted water and left to get cold 
and firm. Fill up all the interstices with potato 
pur^e in which an egg has been mixed. Cover 
with buttered paper, and poach in a stewpan for half 
an hour ; then turn it out on to the dish it is to be 
served on, and fill the centre with cooked button 
mushrooms in white sauce. Dish the sweetbreads 
up on the top in a triangular form, place a tomato 
on the top decorated with a silver h^telet and a 
whole truffle. Serve tomato sauce with it. 

G 



82 COOKERY A LA MODE 



Veal Cutlets k TAndalouse 

Take a pound and a half of veal cutlets. Cut 
into rounds the size of five-shilling pieces, and put 
them into a stewpan with some nicely flavoured pale 
stock. Simmer them till cooked, having first seasoned 
them with pepper and salt. They will take about 
one hour. Make in readiness some brown sauce 
from good stock, flour and butter. Season with salt 
and pepper, and flavour with a pint of sherry. Add 
then some very small tomatoes (gooseberry tomatoes) ; 
simmer for ten minutes. When the cutlets are to be 
served, dish them in a round, one overlapping the 
other. Fry some very small and thin slices of bacon, 
roll them, and place one on each cutlet. Fill in the 
centre with the tomatoes, and serve quickly and hot 



Veal Cutlets k la Clothilde 

Take about two pounds of veal cutlet, cut it into 
rounds the size of a five-shilling piece, make a slit on 
one side, and cut each cutlet open half-way across so 
as to make a pocket. Have ready a forcemeat com- 
posed of minced ham, truffles, champignons, one shalot 
minced, and a piece of butter. Moisten with the 
yolk of an egg. Put some of this forcemeat into the 
pocket of each cutlet. Egg and bread-crumb the 
cutlets, mixing in the bread-crumbs pepper, salt, a 
little chopped parsley, and a soupgon of lemon-peel 
grated. Place the cutlets in a stewpan, and fry 
them to a nice golden colour. Make a gravy with 



ENTRIES 83 

good highly flavoured stock, thickened with butter 
and flour. Add some truffle peelings and a wine- 
glass of sherry, and pour over. A pur^e of mush- 
rooms is sometimes sent up with them. 



Veal Cutlets k la Dpnna Anna 

These cutlets are prepared and made like veal cut- 
lets k la Clothilde, except that in the pockets of each 
a tomato stuffing is inserted, made by chopping up 
tomatoes, a bead of garlic, a red chiUi, and a little 
cream (the tomatoes must be passed through a 
sieve) ; the stuffing must not be too moist. 

The cutlets must then be cooked with egg and 
savoury bread-crumbs, and tomato sauce served 
round. A purfe of ham and cream should be served 
in the centre. 

Veal Cutlets k la Dundonald 

Cut out some veal cutlef into rounds the size of 
a four-shilling piece. Have ready some truffles, 
larding bacon, and a few slices of tongue. Cut them 
into half-inch lengths and one-eighth of an inch 
wide, and lard alternately six pieces of each into the 
centre of the cutlet Then place them in a stewpan 
with one onion, a small piece of garlic, a carrot, 
turnip, a little celery, a bouquet garni, and a bay- 
leaf. Cover them with veal broth, and let them 
simmer for an hour ; then let them remain in the 
stock till next day. When required, take som pale 

G 2 



84 COOKERY A LA MODE 

liquefied aspic jelly and glaze the cutlets with it. 
Dish up en couronne alternately with little rounds 
of ham of same size as veal dipped in aspic, on a 
border of mushroom jelly (which is made of aspic 
and a pur6e of mushrooms). Garnish with peas in 
the centre which have been cooked in two table- 
spoonfuls of aspic jelly. Place little croiitons of 
pink aspic round the dish. (See Plate VIII.) 



Veal Cutlets ^ la Heinz 

Cut some veal cutlet into rounds the size of a 
five-shilling piece. Have ready some fine bread- 
crumbs, into which mix pepper and salt to taste, a 
little minced parsley, thyme, and a soupgon of 
grated lemon-peel. Dip the cutlets in egg, and then 
crumb them. Take one of Heinz's tins of baked 
beans, warm them up, and pile them up in the centre 
of the dish. Arrange the cutlets round, with a piece 
of fried and rolled bacon in between each. Pour a 
little tomato sauce over all, and serve very hot 



Vol-au-Vent of Lamb Sweetbreads en Blanquette 

Make a vol-au-vent case, or a few small vol-au- 
vent cases. Steep some lamb sweetbreads in cold 
water, bleach, drain, and chop them ; cook them in 
white braise, drain, and cut them into scallops ; 
mix them in some velout^ sauce, and fill the inside 
of the vol-au-vent with the sweetbreads 



ENTREES 85 

Cr^me de Veau ^ la General 

Make some forcemeat with veal or chicken, some 
pistachio nuts finely chopped, seasoned to taste, some 
minced ham ; pass through sieve ; add a gill and a 
half of aspic, a glass of sauteme, a gill of cream, and 
a gill of Supreme sauce. 

Line some cutlet-moulds with pale aspic, cut some 
truffles in strips, and arrange them as in a plate in the 
moulds, also some strips of French beans picked or 
otherwise, with little devices imitating roses in red 
aspic ; arrange the truffles in some of the moulds and 
the green in the others. Put on ice and have ready 
some white aspic cream and some pink aspic cream — 
decorate the moulds half with white and half with pink, 
doing one colour at a time and then placing on ice. 

Crfeme de Veau * Porte Vein6' 

Pound the meat of a pound of veal, pass it through 
a sieve with a gill of cream, salt, and white pepper to 
taste ; line the moulds with aspic, decorate the nails 
with truffle and the knot with tongue, cut very thin, 
then put on ice. Then fill the moulds with the veal 
forcemeat and lay on the top a slice of ham cut to 
the shape of the mould. 

Dish up on a border of ham farce coloured with a 
little cochineal ; place in the centre a macddoine of 
vegetables en mayonnaise or with peas tossed in aspic. 

These moulds can be procured only at Jones 
Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly, W. (See Plate 
XIV.) 





A, Boiled Fo»l ; li, j;^,is( rUcs^^ni ; C, Hom ? „■ 



TI: 



POULTRY AND GAME 



*And we meet — with champagne and chicken at last' 

Lady Mary W. Montagu 




, Liltle Aspics of Wild Ducli. 3, Blanc Mange of Plieasant. 

■. Cliicken a la Tombeau. 4. Pra'^ns a la ■' de Sails." 

5. Chicken a la Chance Hi ire. 




TK 



1 V 



POULTRY AND GAME RECIPES 
AND THEIR COOKERY 

In my remarks in the pages on Entrees I have talked 
of boiling, roasting, &c., so that I think it would be 
superfluous to enlarge any more on that subject, 
therefore I shall only give a few hints by which to 
ensure their succulency. 

In roasting poultry one must remember that the 
closer the flesh the longer time it takes to cook, and it 
is of the greatest importance that great attention 
should be made to the basting ; the breast of a bird 
should be covered with butter or dripping to an inch 
thick before putting before the fire. If cooked in the 
oven, the breast should be covered in the same way 
and placed breast downwards in the roaster and a 
lump of dripping placed in its inside, unless it is 
stuffed, and when half cooked turned on its back. To 
make poultry tender, steep it in boiling water and 
pluck it in the hot water. 

Poultry, if to be boned, is to the tiro a little diffi- 
cult, and I would advise all who have to do it to have 
ocular demonstration, as it is almost impossible to 
learn from description, and to accomplish it properly 
requires practice. 

Ducks a. la Rouennaise 

(French Recipe) 

Truss a duck for roasting ; take the giblets, chop 
finely, add salt and pepper to taste, a little gcowcvA 



90 COOKERY A LA MODE 

allspice, a table-spoonful of butter, the same of chopped 
shalots, a small piece of garlic the size of a pea 
minced, two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, the same 
of chopped parsley. Stuff the duck with this, then 
roast briskly for half an hour ; take the drippings, 
and add a little good dark stock and strain over the 
ducks ; send some of the gravy in a tureen. 

Little Aspics of Wild Duck 

Take some dariole moulds and decorate them 
with designs in truffles and chervil leaves, dipping 
them in half-set pale aspic ; ornament the bottoms 
with a small round of orange the size of a shilling, 
with little devices of white of egg round it, then mask 
all with a thin layer of aspic. Have ready some wild 
duck forcemeat which has been poached in port wine 
with a few truffles chopped fine ; fill up the mould 
with it and place on ice. When ready, turn them out 
and garnish with watercress and quarters of oranges. 
(See Plate XII.) 

Jugged Wild Duck 

Cut the wild duck into neat joints, put them into 
a frying-pan, just to brown them. Put these joints 
with some good rich gravy into one of the Boila jars 
and half a dozen oysters, and their liquor, the juice 
of two oranges, a little cayenne, a small onion, and a 
gill of port wine. Close the jar tightly down, stand 
it in a pan of boiling water in the oven. In about an 
hour and a quarter, when done, place it into the entree 



PLATE XUI. 






A, Roast PigeuiiM li, Uixul Gi>.,w; C, RiwM 



.. - ? "A -s. 



'. \ 



H)ULTRY AND GAME 9I 

dish it is to be served in, and place fried sippets 
round and quarters of oranges. 



Salmi of Woodcock H la Royale 

Take three woodcocks and prepare them for roast- 
ing. When they are roasted let them get cold ; 
dismember them and remove all skin. Place them 
in a stewpan with some stock, then let them simmer, 
taking care they do not boil. Have ready another 
saucepan in which put six shalots cut small, a little 
lemon-peel and the carcases of the woodcocks, four 
spoonfuls of brown sauce and a wine-glassful of 
champagne. Let all boil till reduced, then strain 
through a sieve and pour it over the woodcocks with a 
squeeze of lemon juice over, and garnish with sippets 
of fried bread. 

Chicken & la Come 

Cut up a young fowl and cook it in a stewpan 
with butter and salad oil till brown, then add six 
tomatoes, three red chillies chopped fine, a very little 
garlic, and two table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Cook 
slowly for a couple of hours, keeping the lid of the 
stewpan tightly closed. Serve with tomatoes round. 



Chartreuse ^ la Prince Edward 

Line a plain round mould with pale aspic. Cut 
some truffles very thinly and evenly into squares half 



92 COOKERY A LA MODE 

an inch square. Make some aspic cream very stiff, 
flavoured with a little tarragon vinegar ; when cold 
and firm, cut into squares the same size as the truffles. 
Place these evenly and alternately round the mould 
like a chess-board, fixing them in with a little aspic. 
When the mould is covered, place on ice for two or 
three hours. 

Then fill in the centre with lobster cream, and put 
on ice again ; turn out and serve with red aspic 
chopped all round it and over the top. Whip some 
of the red aspic and lay in a little mound on the top 
and sprinkle it over with finely chopped pistachio 
kernels round. A h^telet standing up in the centre, 
piercing a truffle, is often placed. 



Chicken ^ la Tombeau 

Boil a fowl, and when quite cold mask it with a 
very white Bechamel sauce into which has been mixed 
cream and aspic. Pour the sauce on with a palette- 
knife. Cut truffles into tiny rings, crescents, trefoils, 
&c., and arrange them prettily all over the chicken ; 
stick them on by dipping them in aspic, and pour 
a little aspic over all. Take a square tin mould, pour 
in a layer of pale aspic and place on ice ; when it is 
cold, place the chicken, breast downwards, on it, then 
fill up the mould gradually with the aspic and put 
on ice. 

Turn out and decorate all round it with truffles, 
parsley, and red chopped aspic. (See Plate XII.) 



POULTRY AND GAME 93 

Chicken a, la Czar 

Cut up a chicken as for a fricassee, also three 
quarters of a pound of tongue cut into thin slices the 
size of a florin ; melt some butter in a stewpan and 
then put in the pieces of chicken with a bunch of 
parsley, marjoram, lemon, thyme, and half a bay-leaf; 
add a clove of garlic, and fry this till it is a pretty 
golden colour. Drain the fat away and add half a 
pint of chicken broth, a table-spoonful of sauterne 
and a tea-spoonful of curry paste and a bottle of 
champignons ; let all cook together for about a quarter 
of an hour or twenty minutes, then remove the herbs. 
Thicken the gravy, flavour with a very little mush- 
room ketchup ; then dish up and serve, a border of fried 
croflton round. The croiiton should be cut in the 
shape of a diadem. 



Cigarettes ^ la Royale 

Take the remains of some cold chicken or game. 
Mince it and mix with it some chopped truffles, p^t6- 
de-foie-gras, pounded ham, salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix in some cream and half a pint of aspic jelly, roll 
round into cigarette shapes and put on ice ; decorate 
with red chopped aspic and parsley round the dish. 
Dish them piled cross-wise on the top of one another. 

These can be made with bread-crumbs in lieu of 
aspic jelly, and then rolled in egg and bread-crumbs, 
and fried and served hot. (See Plate XXL) 



94 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Caisse de Gibier Prince de Galles 

Procure some little Masonic moulds sold by Jones 
Brothers, butter them ; make one of the triangles in 
truffles, the other in tongue ; line the moulds with 
forcemeat made of the flesh of grouse pounded and 
passed through a sieve, and mix in gradually a gill 
of cream ; season with salt, pepper, and truffle, very 
finely minced. Fill the inside with tongue and truffles 
cut up into Julienne strips, mixed with two or three 
spoonfuls of curry sauce ; cover over with some of the 
forcemeat and poach in a little boiling stock ; dish up 
on a border of the same forcemeat, garnish the middle 
with strips of tongue and truffles, pour curry sauce 
round, and serve some in a sauce-boat ; make the curry 
sauce with good brown stock with the bones of the 
grouse, fry an onion sliced in butter; add a good 
spoonful of the curry powder, the milk of a cocoa-nut, 
and a spoonful of curry paste ; grate the white part 
of the nut, pour boiling stock over it, and pass through 
a fine strainer and add to the sauce. Boil a few 
minutes, skim, and thicken with a little potato flour 
and butter. 



Chaudfroid of Grouse d. la Pekin 

Take the meat from a cooked grouse, taking care 
there be no skin. Pound and rub it through a hair 
sieve and mix with it half a pint of gravy which 
has been made from the bones. After it has been 
passed through a sieve add half a glass of cleuret, a little 



POULTRY AND GAME 95 

salt, and a dust of cayenne. Chop up some truffles 
and add to the meat with a gill of unflavoured aspic. 
Have some little dariole moulds masked with aspic 
and put in the above mixture. Put on ice, and when 
cold turn out and serve, garnished with chopped aspic 
sprinkled with truffle parings. On the top of each 
mould place a ring of truffle with a little star of 
red aspic in the middle. 



Cream of Hare k la Gil Bias 

Take a fine hare, remove the skin and cut the 
fillets out of the back, leaving the rest of the hare for 
jugging or soup. Put these fillets into a mortar, 
having chopped them first ; pour a gill of good cream 
over and pound well for fifteen minutes, then rub 
through a wire sieve, after which return it to the 
mortar and pound it again, adding, a spoonful at a 
time, half a pint of cream till it is quite smooth and 
well blended ; then mix in a full wineglassful of port 
wine and a table-spoonful of red currant jelly. Put 
this in a mould and cook in a saucepan of water for 
five minutes. Now take a medium-sized baking 
sheet, butter it, and line it with a sheet of white paper 
very evenly and butter this as well, then spread the 
cream of hare taken out of the mould very evenly 
over it to the thickness of one-tenth of an inch ; then 
butter another sheet of paper, place it carefully over 
the top, sprinkle a little water all over the surface 
and put it in a fairly quick oven to set it, which will 
be in about five minutes ; when it is firm to the 



96 COOKERY A LA MODE 

touch it is ready. When cold, cut it out into oval 
shapes three inches long and one and a half wide. 

Make about eighteen or twenty of these rounds. 
Have ready the same number of forcemeat scallops 
the size of a florin made with one ounce of veal suet, 
the chopped liver of the hare, a table-spoonful of 
parsley, thyme, marjoram, pepper and salt to taste, a 
dust of cayenne. Mix all together with the yolk of 
a large egg and a gill of liquid aspic. Put on ice to 
set and put one on each hare scallop. The bones of 
the hare and any trimmings should have been placed 
on the fire in some stock with a small carrot, onion, 
celery, and a bouquet garni, just brought to the boil, 
and simmered for a couple of hours, then skimmed 
and strained, then mixed with a good brown sauce 
into which four ounces of aspic should be melted. 
Mask the hare scallops with this sauce. Dish them 
up on an ornamented border of aspic cream flavoured 
with red currant jelly alternately with the forcemeat 
scallops, which should be lightly masked with pale 
aspic. 

The centre garnish should be a mac^doine of 
vegetables strained from the water and warmed up in 
stock, then drained, and, when cold, tossed them in two 
table-spoonfuls of half-liquid aspic jelly. 

Place aspic croutons and chopped aspic between 
them round the dish. 

Creme de Lapin 'lOO up* 

Procure some little * loo-up ' moulds from Jones 
Brothers, mask them with aspic. Blanch and boil 




3. Crtme de Lapin '■ 100 up." 

4. Mousse de Volaille St. Andn 
a United Service. 



POULTRY AND GAME 97 

some spinach, put a little soda in the water to keep 
it a pretty green, pass it through a sieve and mix 
with a forcemeat of the white flesh of a rabbit that has 
been roasted and passed through a sieve. Mix with 
cream and aspic, season with salt and pepper. Wet 
the moulds, make the cues with truffles, the ball on each 
side with white aspic cream, and the centre one of 
tomato aspic. Half fill the mould with the green 
forcemeat; add some tomato aspic. Arrange on a 
white aspic border, and fill in the centre with a 
mac^doine of vegetables tossed in aspic. (See Plate 
XIV.) 

Lark Pie 

Take eight or ten larks, stuff them with foie-gras. 
Line the pie-dish with some fillet of beef cut as for 
tomedos. Add hard-boiled yolks of eggs and good 
gravy ; cover with puff paste. Bake the pie for an 
hour and a quarter. 

Medallions of Chicken k la Audrey 

Pound together some boiled chicken and some 
sweetbreads. Mix in a table-spoonful of ham and a 
table-spoonful of sherry, salt and pepper to taste, 
pass through a sieve ; add half a pint of aspic, the 
same of velout6 sauce, and two table-spoonfuls of 
cream. Take some medallion moulds, line them 
with aspic, and decorate them different little designs 
of truffles. Then line the moulds with white aspic, 
and, when set, put in the chicken mixture. Fill in a 
little more aspic and put on ice. (See Plate IX.) 

H 



98 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Arrange these en cauronne on a pink border 
made of ham forcemeat, cream, and aspic coloured 
with cochineal, mixed with cream in the centre. Fill 
in with chopped aspic and place a h^telet mould on 
the top with the chicken mixture inside ornamented 
with truffles. Pierce it with a skewer through two 
tomatoes and a truffle. 



Mousse de Volaille & la St. Andrew 

Have some of the moulds made expressly for this 
dish by Jones Brothers, Down Street, and pound the 
white meat of a boiled chicken ; then pass it through 
a fine sieve with half a pint of cream, a gill of aspic 
jelly, a spoonful of cold Supreme sauce, and a spoonful 
of a pur^e of spinach ; pass all through a tammy ; 
season with salt and pepper. 

Wet the moulds and line them with pale aspic ; 
make the golf clubs and balls with truffles, set on ice, 
then half-fill them with the chicken forcemeat and 
lay on the top of each a slice of cooked ham cut to 
the exact size of the mould. Lay them on ice, and 
serve them on a border made of mushrooms mixed 
and cooked with a table-spoonful of aspic, the juice 
of half a lemon, a gill of cream, and a little chopped 
parsley. (See Plate XIV.) 

Partridges & la Masonic 

Procure some Masonic moulds ; butter them and 
make one of the triangles in truffles, the other in 



POULTRY AND GAME 99 

tongue. Line the moulds with a forcemeat made of 
the meat of a partridge pounded and tammied, then 
mix in a gill of cream ; season to taste. Fill the inside 
with a Julienne of tongue and truffles mixed with 
two spoonfuls of curry sauce ; cover over with a little 
more forcemeat and poach in a little boiling stock. 
Dish up on a forcemeat border and garnish the 
middle with a Julienne of tongue and truffles, and 
pour curry sauce round. 

Pheasant Blanc Mange aux Truffes 

Take a couple of pheasants (if two entries are 
required) and boil them. Whilst they are boiling 
chemise two plain round moulds with clear aspic 
jelly. Cut some truffles into thin slices, and when the 
aspic in the moulds is set, ornament the bottoms 
with the truffles cut into ornamental shapes, such 
as stars, crescents, or fleur-de-lys, dipping them into 
aspic first to make them adhere. Next put three- 
quarters of a pint of liquid aspic into a basin, and 
with a whisk whip it till it becomes quite white and to 
the consistence of thick cream. Chemise the moulds 
again with this by turning them round and round ; 
it should be quite an inch thick. Now skin the 
pheasants and cut off all the white meat, chop it and 
then pound it with a little cream, and rub it through 
a wire sieve. Put this into a basin, and add half a 
pint of cream and mix lightly. Melt some more 
aspic, and whilst it is in the liquid state whip it well 
and mix it with the pheasant ; then fill the moulds 
with it| and pour a little liquid aspic over. Place on 



H 2 



253959 



.*/■ . 



ICX) COOKERY A LA MODE 

ice till required, then turn out ; decorate with aspic 
croOtons and barberries. Serve Russian salad with it 
(See Plate XII.) 

Pheasant Pie 

Have ready a china pie-dish, a pretty majolica 
one looks best. Bone a couple of pheasants, season 
their interiors with a little pepper, salt, and very little 
chopped onion. Make some forcemeat with ham, 
tongue, p^t6-de-foie-gras, and truffles ; place a thick 
layer of it at the bottom of the dish ; fill the interiors 
of the birds with an oyster forcemeat. Roll the birds 
over together, cut them in slices and place on the 
forcemeat, and then lay on some more of foundation 
forcemeat and add some liquid savoury aspic jelly ; 
when the mould is full, arrange it with chopped aspic 
all over the top and arrange crayfish round the edges 
and a large truffle in the middle. 

Pheasant k la St. Charles 

Wrap a pheasant in a sheet of buttered paper and 
roast it ; when it is cooked, stuff it with minced oysters, 
truffles, parsley, a soupgon of onion, a dessert-spoonful 
of lemon-juice, a little cayenne well mixed in butter. 

Then place the pheasant in a stewing-pan with 
butter and a bouquet garni, two shalots and the 
beards of the oysters, some of the oyster liquor, and 
half a pint of good stock, and a claret-glass full of 
sauterne or chablis. Let this all simmer over the fire 
for a quarter of an hour, then give it a boil, and strain 
it over the pheasant after it is dished. 



POULTRY AND GAME lOl 

Chicken ^ la Chancelli^re 

Bone a couple of chickens and stuff them with a 
forcemeat made with some lambs' sweetbreads finely 
chopped, also some finely chopped truffles, mushrooms 
and pistachio-nuts ; mix all together with two ounces 
of panada, a gill of good Supreme sauce, a table- 
spoonful of butter and two eggs, cayenne pepper, and 
salt to taste. Cut off the feet and truss them for 
boiling ; boil them till tender. When cool mask them 
over with white sauce made in the usual way, with the 
addition of cream and aspic. Stand them up as in 
Plate XII. Glaze the feet and stick them in, and 
place on either side some thin pastry triangularly 
shaped and covered alternately with carrot and turnip 
cut like peas ; or peas may also be introduced as well, 
making them tricolour. The chicken should be gar- 
nished over with leaves of green aspic jelly and little 
darioles filled with a mixture of cream, tongue and 
aspic should be placed round, ornamented with 
chopped aspic. A h^telet mould and skewer should be 
placed as in Plate, filled with aspic cream and truffles. 
Instead of the pastry between the chickens, very stiff 
aspic may be used and the vegetables laid on with 
liquefied aspic. (See Plate XII.) 

Quenelles of Pheasant ^ la Prince Albert 

Make some quenelles in the usual way with the 
breast meat of two pheasants. Mask them with a 
white sauce in which aspic and oysters have been 
introduced, the oysters having been chopped and 



102 COOKERY k LA MODE 

tammied. When the sauce has set, place some little 
shapes of cut truffle in the middle of each which have 
been dipped in aspic. Dish them en couronne on an 
ornamental border of pink aspic. In the centre serve 
champignons moistened with a little aspic jelly, so that 
they may adhere together to form a pyramid. Garnish 
with chopped aspic. 

Quails in Cases 

Take as many paper cases as there are birds, oil 
them, and put them into the oven for a few minutes 
to dry them. Put a table-spoonful of P^rigord sauce 
into each case, place a quail in each, which has been 
stuflFed with foie-gras forcemeat. Cook them in the 
oven, and when done pour over them Financiere 
sauce. Dish them up on a potato border. 



Quails ^ la Melba 

Take four or six boned quails, cut the legs off 
above the leg-bone. Make sufficient quenelle meat 
to fill their insides, and mix with it a little tongue 
and four large truffles. Chop up half a dozen smal 
white mushrooms (cooked), which also mix with the 
forcemeat. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat, close 
up the opening, and make each one into a round ball 
and tie up closely in a cloth. Let them cook for 
forty-five minutes. When cooked, they may be 
glazed if to be served hot. Arrange them in a circle 
on the dish, with some cockscombs. Slice truffles 



f^OttlTRY AND GAMii l6j 

knd champignons in the middle. Pour some good 
velout6 sauce over the quails. If this is desired cold, 
the backs must be masked with a rich veloutd sauce 
in which aspic has been mixed. The sauce should 
be the consistency of rich cream. The quails should 
be ornamented with designs in truffle, and a mayon- 
naise should be poured over a salad served in the 
centre. The whole should be garnished with chopped 
aspic and blocks of aspic. 

Quails k la Meunier 

Bone and cook some quails. Stuff them with 
p^t6-de-foie-gras aux truffes which has been rubbed 
through a sieve, and a little whipped cream added to it. 
Form the quails into shapes of sacks. Make a rich 
white sauce with cream, into which a quarter of a 
pint of aspic has been mixed, and cover the sacked 
quails entirely over with it and put on ice. When 
set, make designs on each with truffles, and pour over 
each some very pale aspic jelly. Set to get cold, 
then trim and tie round the neck of each sack a very 
narrow strip of truffle. Arrange them on a red 
aspic mould, with chopped aspic in the centre, 
sprinkled with chopped pistachio-kernels. Garnish 
with aspic and chervil sprays. 



Turkey Medallions k la Cecil 

Cut the meat from the breast and wings of a 
turkey into delicately thin slices the size of a four- 



I04 COOKERY A LA MODE 

shilling piece. Lay these on a baking-tin, with a 
very little strong stock, peppered and salted. Cover 
with buttered paper, and put into a slow oven till 
done. Cut some cold tongue into the same-sized 
pieces as the turkey, and spread them with green 
butter. When the turkey is quite cold, lay a piece 
of the tongue on each piece of turkey. Dish on a 
mound of tomato aspic, with a potato and beetroot 
salad in the centre. 



Cr^me de Venison k la Danoise 

Cut some cold venison into very thin shavings. 
Make a rich Italienne sauce, into which mix a table- 
spoonful of red currant jelly. Pound all together in 
a mortar, then pass through a fine sieve, adding then 
some truffle peelings and a little good claret or port- 
wine. Make into quenelles and poach in stock. Then 
arrange them in a circle sauced with Italienne, sauce 
as above ; garnish with sprinkled parsley, and serve 
French beans in the centre. Claret is generally handed 
round with venison dishes. 



Wild Duck k la Serviette 

Take a wild duck, remove heart, liver, and 
gizzard, and mince them very finely with three 
shalots. Sprinkle well with black pepper, pabrika, 
and a little salt. Mix into a smooth paste. Stuff 
the duck with this, sew it up carefully, then roll the 
bird in a cloth folded in three and tie it up at each 



POULTRY AND GAME 105 

end like a sausage. Then have a panful of boiling, 
well salted water, and put in the duck, which has been 
well-salted. Let it cook for thirty-five minutes ; then 
remove it, and serve very hot. Send round it a 
garnish of sliced oranges, taking care there is no pith 
nor peel. Hand with an iced orange salad. 



-?£;&. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES 



* Behold, the earth hath roots ; 
The bounteous housewife, Nature, on each bush 
Lays her full mess before you ' 

Tirtton of Athens, Act iv., Sc. iii. 



PLATE XV. 




A, Asparagus ; B, Asparagus Tongs ; C, Rack for serving Asparagus on ; 

D, Sauceboat ; E, Potato Straws ; F, Stuflfed Tomatoe?. *, 

G, Spinach with hard-boUed YL^gs. 




unv. 






VEGETABLES AND THE COOKERY OF 

VEGETABLES 

In cooking vegetables care must be taken to cook 
them sufficiently or they are indigestible. And in 
France and Germany we always find them well cooked ; 
and, consequently, they excel us in it ; and they make 
more of them than we do by the various ways of 
dressing them with gravy and cream. Vegetables 
should never be washed after they have been cut and 
sliced, and, when cooking, must be put into boiling 
and salted water, and the lid should be left off the 
saucepan. Great care is necessary in their washing 
to get rid of grit, earwigs, &c. 

Cauliflower, asparagus, French beans; &c., may 
sometimes have a bitter taste owing to accidents of 
culture, therefore, it is well to put a lump of sugar 
into the water, which will counteract the bitterness if 
there be any. 

When vegetables are a bad colour it is simply 
carelessness in not keeping the water boiling all the 
time and the lid raised. When cooked, the greens, 
&c., should be lifted out and put into a colander to 
drain, unless the kitchen possesses one of Braby's 
vegetable saucepans and strainers, in which the vege- 
tables can be cooked and drained in the same saucepan. 
I always use one, and it is far less trouble to the cooks, 
who in these days always like to spare themselves. 



no COOKERY A LA MODfi 

It is a great mistake to squeeze the water from v^e- 
tables ; it bruises them. 

Steaming vegetables is very much done abroad, 
which is done by placing them on one of the * Rapid' 
steamers and steaming them till done. 

When vegetables are frosted, after preparing 
them for cooking, lay them in cold salted water all 
night, standing the vessel in which they are placed 
in a warm room. The vegetables must be quite 
covered with water. I recommend every housewife 
to keep in the scullery a wire vegetable rack shown in 
Plate XVI., it keeps the vegetables clean and fresh. 



Jerusalem Artichokes alia Parmigiana 

Wash and peel the artichokes, shaping them like 
pears of uniform size. Put two ounces of butter in a 

saucepan, and arrange the artichokes in circles in it 
Strew over some pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; pour 
a quarter of a pint of good gravy over them, put the 
lid on, and simmer for half an hour, basting them 
occasionally. They should colour a deep yellow. 
Serve Morny sauce round them. 

The sauce is made with a quarter of a pint of 
white stock, which must simmer till reduced to one- 
half; add two ounces of grated Parmesan and 
parsley, and stir over the fire three minutes; then 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, stirring slowly. 

Asparagus Patties 

Line some patty-cases with puff paste, bake them, 
and fill the insides with heads of asparagus that 



PLATE XVI. 




D, Brooklyn Fluted Crusl 



■pi 

: IF 

■' 8 li 




V 



DRESSED VEGETABLES HI 

have been boiled, and pour Irlandaise sauce over 
them. 



Carrot and Turnip Mould 

(To be eaten with Boiled Pork) 

Take some carrots, boil them in good stock. 
Mash them and pass them through a wire sieve, add 
pepper and salt to taste and a little butter ; put them 
into a border-mould. Mash some turnips in milk ; after 
boiling, add pepper and salt to taste and some cream ; 
beat them thick over the fire. Turn the carrots out 
of the border- mould, and put the turnip pur^e in the 
centre, piling it high. 

Truffles k la Milan 

Melt four ounces of fresh butter, add two ounces 
of good salad-oil, a little parsley, a shalot, a small 
onion, a clove of garlic, all minced, and fry them 
together. Peel two pounds of fresh truffles, slice and 
put them in the stewpan with pepper and salt to taste. 
When they are all thoroughly mixed, add a pinch of 
flour and a little hot fish stock. 

Boil a tumbler of Saumur (a light champagne), 
and add this also ; stew gently till everything is 
cooked and blended. 

Fry some sippets in butter, and pour the contents 
of the stewpan over the fried bread. 

The clove of garlic must be removed before the 
truffles are put in. 



112 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Surprise Tomatoes 

(Tomatoes en Surprise) 

Take some little tomato-moulds, and mask them 
thickly with red aspic jelly, place a small piece of foie- 
gras well truffled inside, fill up with the jelly, and close 
the moulds. Put on ice till ready to turn out ; place 
them on a bed of green aspic jelly. 



Stuffed Cabbages 

(Choux Farcies) 

Remove all the outer leaves from a couple of nice 
white cabbages, and wash them in salt and water 
then parboil them. Make a stuffing of some minced 
tongue, foie-gras, and fowl's liver, which must be 
mixed into a paste with the yolks of two eggs ; put 
this forcemeat between the leaves of the cabbages, 
taking care not to break them and not to spoil the shape 
of the cabbage. Flour the cabbages, dip them into 
the yolks of two eggs, and fry them delicately to a pale 
colour. Then cook them with butter and rich gravy. 
Send to table with fried sippets and pour the gravy over. 
Care must be taken not to over-cook the cabbages. 



Potatoes en Surprise (Twentieth Century) 

Take some large potatoes, boil them, cut them 
into halves, scoop out the potato, and leave the skins. 
Take some more uncooked potatoes, peel them,and cut 



DRESSED VEGETABLES II3 

them into little straws two inches long and seven- 
eighths of an inch wide ; fry them a pretty gold colour, 
and pile them up tastefully in the half skins. Sprinkle 
over a very little finely chopped parsley, and stand the 
potatoes on a bed of the potatoes taken from the skins 
and passed through a potato-masher and mixed with 
butter and a little milk, and put into a border mould. 

Mushrooms k la Tuileries 

Take half a dozen large mushrooms, mince some 
soft herring-roes, making about two ounces, the same 
amount of tomatoes mashed, a sprinkle of cayenne, 
salt to taste. Put this mixture into half a pint of 
Espagnole sauce and stew for six or seven minutes ; 
add a glass of marsala, and when nearly cold whisk 
a couple of eggs into it. Peel the mushrooms and 
put a spoonful of the mixture between two of them 
sandwich fashion, place a large piece of butter on the 
top one, and then bake them for six minutes. Serve 
them very hot within a border of potato straws. Some- 
times tomato sauce is handed with this dish. 

Spinach and Poached Eggs 

Cook two or three pounds of spinach according 
to the quantity required in the usual way ; when done, 
drain and tammy ; add an ounce of butter, half an 
ounce of flour, salt and pepper to taste, a small lump 
of sugar, and half a cupful of cream. Put back in 
saucepan and stir over fire ; arrange it on a dish in 
a mound with toast underneath, and place some 

I 



114 COOKERY A LA MODE 

poached eggs on the top ; sprinkle with a little very 
finely chopped parsley. 



Salad ^ la Redvers 

Chop up tomatoes quite small, add a bead of 
garlic and a shalot, and rub all through a sieve. 
Take four table-spoonfuls of aspic jelly and mix into 
the pur6e with an equal quantity of mayonnaise 
sauce. Decorate a round mould with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs, the yolks and whites separately stamped 
in fancy rounds and stars ; then line a plain mould 
with pale aspic, and arrange the slices of egg in 
the mould in tiers one above the other, yellow and 
white alternately, till the mould is full. Every here 
and there place a sprig of chervil. Set the mould on 
ice, and when quite set fill the centre with the tomato 
puree. Place on ice again and then turn out, garnish 
with small salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce 
round. Arrange watercress in a garland on the top 
and sprinkle pale pink aspic all over it. 



Turnip Pasties 

Peel two pounds of turnips, cut them into thin 
slices, pepper and salt them, and put in a small piece 
of bacon. 

Make some puff pastry in some patty-pans and 
bake. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES II5 

Vegetable Marrow k FAndalousie 

Take a Spanish onion, cut it into thin slices, also 
three tomatoes, and slice them also ; fry them in 
butter. Next cut a vegetable marrow into neat 
square pieces ; add some nicely flavoured white stock, 
salt and pepper, with a dust of cayenne. Simmer all 
together till cooked, and serve very hot. 



Vegetable Marrow k la Firenza 

Slice a couple of vegetable marrows as thinly as 
a cucumber, dry and fry them in very /lot butter with 
pepper, salt and pabrika. Shake over a little grated 
Parmesan cheese. 



Cauliflower k la Biarritz 

(Italian recipe) 

Take a cauliflower and cut it up roughly ; after 
washing and draining it, put it in a stewpan with two 
cloves of garlic, three cloves, a little parsley, basil, 
and marjoram, and an ounce of butter. Cook this 
slowly for fifteen minutes, then moisten it with veal or 
chicken broth till the cauliflower is cooked. Have 
ready some Patna rice which has been cooked in 
stock, add some grated Parmesan cheese and a table- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy, and mix up all 

together. 

I 2 



COOKERV k LA MODE 



Tomatoes and Spinach 

Take a fancy border-mould and put in two pounds 
of cooked spinach, cooked as in recipe ' Spinach and 
Poached Eggs,' page 113. Keep the border-mould with 
the spinach in hot whilst the centre mixture is prepar- 
ing. Beat up half a dozen eggs and mash four or five 
tomatoes, and mix all together, flavouring with half a 
tea-spoonful of shalot vinegar, a trifle of cayenne, and 
salt to taste ; scramble all together in a frying-pan 
with two onces of butter till the mixture is set, then 
take the spinach-mould and turn it out and place the 
egg and tomato mixture inaide. 



SAUCES 

*I smeU it— 
Upon my life it will do wondrous well' 

Henry IV, i. 3 



' Thou comest in such a questionable shape 
That I will speak to thee' 

Hamlet i. 4 



SAUCES 

There are very few cooks who really take the 
trouble to make sauces properly ; they hurry over 
them, and therefore often send up to table either a 
species of paper-hanger's paste or a thin watery fluid. 
It takes a little time to make sauce properly, and, 
as on sauces and gravies the perfection of entries 
depends, even for a simple hash or mince, it is most 
necessary to make them properly. One often sees 
butter and flour rolled together in any haphazard 
fashion, and put into the other ingredients and boiled 
till thick and never strained through a sieve. It 
takes them about five minutes and they think it will 
do. Now, I well know that many excellent cookery- 
books and good cooks advise the rolling of flour 
together and then frying. No doubt it can be 
done so and welL But as, as a rule, cooks hurry over 
their cooking, it is not always successful. 

The following way of making sauces is the method 
I always teach my cook to do, and the result is that 
the sauce is invariably smooth. 

All sauces spring from two sauces, brown and 
white, and it is the different flavourings which make 
the innumerable sauces of which these two kinds 
form the basis. The first thing in making a white 
sauce is to take a table-spoonful of flour and mix it in 



I20 COOKERY A LA MODE 

a basin till it is a smooth paste. Whilst doing this, 
have a small stewpan on the fire with a piece of butter 
about the size of a large plum in it ; when the butter 
is melted and very hot, add to it the paste ; give it a 
stir round, adding a little salt, more milk, and what- 
ever flavourings are required ; stir over the fire till it 
begins to thicken, then let it boil till it thickens and 
the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan and coats 
the spoon. If it becomes too thick, add half a gill of 
cold water and boil up again, then pass through a fine 
strainer into the tureen or dish it is to be served in. 

If cooked some time before it is wanted, keep 
the saucepan in a larger saucepan filled with boilii^ 
water, but be sure not to let it boil again. The 
' gourmet boilers ' are capital things for keeping food 
warm and simmering ; they are made in earthenware 
and put inside a stewpan of hot water, and sauces, 
&c., may be left in these boilers for hours and they will 
never boil, and for those persons who do not possess a 
bain-marie they are a sine qud non. (See Plate 
XVII.) 

Brown sauces are made exactly in the same way 
as white, except that flour is mixed first with cold 
stock or gravy instead of milk, and added to the 
boiling butter in the same way. 

Of course, where oysters, button mushrooms, 
lobster, shrimps, capers, &c., are used, the sauce must 
be strained before these are put in, and mushrooms 
must be cooked first. I have heard cooks grumble 
and say, * What a fuss and trouble to make sauce this 
way ! ' But it is no trouble and only takes two or three 
minutes longer than the usual rough way of mixing 



PLATE XVII. 




Pudding-lMiilcr ; K, Clialing-diNli ; T, Sahm: 



SAUCES 1 2 1 

all together; and certainly the sauce repays the 
trouble, and unless care and pains are taken in 
whatever is cooked, success will not be triumphant. 

I will give some recipes for different sauces, both 
brown and white, the foundations to be made as I 
have just directed. 

Gravy is an important factor in cooking. I mean 
the gravy which comes from joints when roasting. 
To make this gravy fit for table, take away the 
dripping-pan, and pour off slowly from a corner of it 
all the fat. At the bottom of the dripping-pan there 
will be a brown sediment, which is the concentrated 
gravy. After the fat has been poured off, pour on to 
the dripping-pan half a pint of boiling water, and with 
it wash off all the brown sediment. Stir up all the 
water and then pour it out through a strainer into 
the saucepan, which boil up and afterwards pour into 
the dish. 



Ambassador's Sauce 

Make half a pint of brown sauce, add a table- 
spoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of Clarence's 
cayenne sauce, one of Worcester, and one of Hienz's 
tomato ketchup and a gill of port wine. Boil up, 
tammy, then stand in the bain-marie or gourmet 
boiler till wanted. 

Anchovy Sauce 

Prepare some white sauce, add a little cayenne, 
and add when the sauce is over the fire a teaspoonful 



122 COOKERY A LA MODE 

of essence of anchovy. To render it a little piquant 
add a few drops of chilli vin^ar. Many persons 
think this an improvement. 



Apple Sauce 

Take half a dozen good cooking- apples, pare and 
core them. Then put them into a stewpan with 
just sufficient water to moisten them ; boil till soft. 
Add a little Demerara sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of a pigeon's egg. Beat up with a fork, and 
place in the tureen, &c. 



Sauce cl TAurore 

Make a white sauce with three-quarters of a pint 
of veal gravy. Add the white outside of a mush- 
room, a small onion, a sprinkle of cayenne, and a 
table-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Simmer 
gently for twenty minutes until reduced to half a 
pint. Strain, and return to stewpan, and place on 
fire till it boils. Then strain through fine tammy, 
and add a large spoonful of lobster butter, half a 
tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon-juice, and 
keep hot. The sauce must not boil after the lobster 
butter has been added. 



Bdarnaise Sauce 

Chop up four shalots, put them in a stewpan 
with half a gill of vinegar and half a gill of tarragon 



SAUCES 123 

vinegar, and boil till reduced to a table-spoonful. 
Add three yolks of egg one at a time, whisking each 
one well, and be sure it is not allowed to boil. When 
the eggs are in, remove the stewpan from the fire, 
and add two ounces of butter in small pieces, taking 
care each piece is dissolved before adding the rest, as 
if the butter is added too quickly the sauce will oil. 
Strain, and it is ready for use. 



Bechamel, or White Sauce 

Fry a small carrot, one stick of celery, one 
shalot, a bay-leaf, a little salti, and some pepper- 
corns for a few minutes, but they must not brown. 
Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and add 
to it one and a half ounce of flour that has been 
smoothly mixed with a little cold milk or pale stock. 
Put in the vegetables, whisk in a pint of milk, and 
let it boil for a quarter of an hour, or till it thickens. 
Then strain, re-heat, and add one gill of cream. For 
very superior white sauce add two or three button 
mushrooms to the vegetables. 



Beurre Noir 

Warm some butter in a frying-pan till it becomes 
a dark brown colour. Cook a little vinegar in the 
same frying-pan. Reduce, and add to the cold 
brown butter. Warm in a saucepan, season with salt 
and pepper, and serve. 




Black Sauce 

BroR'n two table-spoonfuls of flour and a chopped 
onion in butter. Add some dark gravy, a bay-leaf, 
salt and pepper to taste, adozen crushed juniper berries, 
two spoonfuls of black currant jelly, one of vinegar, 
and a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar. Boil and strain. 

This is a German recipe, and is intended to serve 
with game and venison. ' 



Bordelaise Sauce i la Gouff<£ 

Add to half a pint of sauteme one pindi of 
mignonette pepper, and one table-spoonfiil of shalots 
previously blanched and chopped. Reduce it by 
boiling to a quarter of a pint, add half a {»nt of 
Espagnole sauce. Boil for six minutes, and put in 
one table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Skim and 
strain. 

Bread Sauce 

Take a pint of milk, and boil in it an onion stuck 
with two cloves, a small shalot, and some pepper- 
corns, and bring to the boil, and then let stand for 
an hour on the stove. Then take the onion, shalot, 
and peppercorns from the sauce. Have ready two 
ounces of freshly grated bread-crumbs, and put them 
into the milk with half an ounce of butter. Add 
salt to taste. Boil up the sauce for ten minutes, and 
it will be ready to serve. A good table-spoonful of 
cream added to it is, of course, an improvement. 



SAUCES 125 

Brown Sauce 

Take six mushrooms washed and peeled, one 
carrot, one shalot, and one small onion. Cut them 
up and fry them in two ounces of butter till a nice 
brown, then stir in one and a half ounce of flour, and 
lastly pour in one pint of light hock. Let boil for 
ten minutes, then skim, and season with pepper and 
salt, then strain. 



Caper Sauce 

Make some white sauce, add a couple of table- 
spoonfuls of capers with some of their vinegar, chop 
them in halves and stir over the fire, stirring well. 



Caramel Sauce 

Put two handfuls of castor sugar into a stewpan, 
stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till dissolved 
and slightly brown, add not quite half a pint of water, 
a dessert-spoonful of essence of vanilla, and one pound 
of lump sugar. Boil this to a thick syrup. 



Chateaubriand Sauce 

Melt a little glaze in a little white Rhine wine, 
stir in some Espagnole sauce, and thicken with maitre- 
d'hdtel butter. 



126 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Chaudfroid Sauce 

Mix together a gill of Bechamel sauce, a gill of 
whipped cream, half a pint of liquefied aspic jelly, and 
boil till reduced one quarter ; keep it well skimmed, 
tammy, and use. 

When chaudfroid sauce is required brown, use 
Espagnole sauce instead of the Bechamel. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Take some bottled cranberries if the fresh are not 
to be had, and cook them in just enough water to 
cover them and stew till the berries are soft. Add a 
table-spoonful of cream and a little sugar. 

Chilli Sauce 

Take six tomatoes, peel them and chop them 
with a large onion and one and a half chilli pods ; boil 
an hour, add one and a half cupful of white vinegar, 
half an ounce of sugar, and one small table-spoonful 
of salt. Let it boil for two hours slowly. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Peel a couple of cucumbers, one small onion, and 
cut them injilices half an inch thick ; fry them in a 
little butter till lightly browned. Dredge them with 
pepper and salt, and simmer them till tender in as 
much white sauce as will cover them. 



SAUCES 127 

Sauce 2i la Diable 

Boil two eggs hard and then chop them and pour 
on them a few drops of tarragon vinegar, pound in a 
mortar, adding drop by drop two table-spoonfuls of 
salad oil, then gradually drop three table-spoonfuls of 
port wine, one of mustard, the juice of a lemon, white 
pepper, salt to taste, a sharp apple finely chopped, a 
pinch of sugar, and just enough vinegar to flavour the 
whole. Stir well together till all traces of the oil 
disappear. 

Dutch Sauce 

Make half a pint of melted butter and put it, with 
the yolks of four or five eggs, into a stewpan. Stand 
it in a large saucepan of boiling water, and whisk it 
well over the fire till it thickens. It must not boil, or 
it will curdle. Season to taste with salt and cayenne, 
and at the last stir in two table-spoonfuls of lemon- 
juice. 

D'Uxelles Sauce 

Take two table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 
one of chopped parsley, the same of chopped shalots, 
a head of garlic, a little scraped bacon, a bay-leaf, a 
bouquet garni, salt and pepper to taste. Warm up 
in fresh butter. Moisten with white wine, reduce it 
and pass it through a sieve. 

Stir in a little white thickening, and serve with 
poultry or game entries. 




Espagnole Sauce 

(Spanish Sauce) 
Cut up some slices of ham, some veat trimmings, 
and fowl's giblets, and place Jn a saucepan with a 
lumpof butta" mixed with flour, and stir over the fire 
till a nice brown coiour ; moisten with stock, half a 
pint of diabtis, and the juice of a lemon. Simmer for 
several hours, then pass tiirough a fine strainer, and 
thicken with a little glaze. 

Fennel Sauce 

Take a large handful of green fennel, take away 
all stalks and put the sprigs into a sauc^)an with coU 
water and a tiny bit of soda. 

Boil for five minutes, then drain, chop fine, and 
mix well with half an ounce of butter. Rub through 
a sieve, and add this pulp to half a pint of white 



Financiftre Sauce 

Mince some raw ham, enough to fill three table- 
spoonfuls, some truffle trimmings, mushrooms, a 
bouquet garni, three black peppercorns ; put these into 
equal quantities of stock and white wine. Reduce to 
half the quantity, skim well and tammy ; stir some 
stock into a little brown thickening in a separate 
saucepan. Mix all tc^ether and reduce. 



SAUCES 129 

Sauce Framboise 

(Spanish recipe) 

Beat up the yolks of two eggs, and add drop by 
drop a gill of oHve-oil, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of shaiot vinegar, a 
few chopped capers, a couple of boned sardines finely 
minced, and a table-spoonful of raspberry jelly. 

Geneva Sauce 

(For Fish) 

Take some fish stock, mix in fiour, boil some 
butter, then add the stock and stir over the fire till 
brown ; add a claret-glassful of claret and half a pint 
of fish stock, a bouquet garni, salt and pepper, two 
sliced onions, and two or three chopped mushrooms. 
Let them cook well together and serve. 

Green Sauce 

Pound a large handful of parsley in a mortar, boil 
and add eight boned anchovies and half a pint of 
mayonnaise sauce gradually in which two table-spoon- 
fuls of chervil, tarragon, and chives have been mixed. 

Ham Sauce 

Cut up half a pound of cooked ham into dice. 

«und in a mortar, moisten with stock, add a table- 
X)nful of Soubise sauce and the same of Espagnole 
and tammy ; then stir in a pint of stock, and when it 

K 



I30 o 

is ready to serve stir a tumblerful of chablis and a 
lump of fr&th butter. 



H<H«e-ndisfa Suice 

Scrape some horse-radish finely, add a full tea- 
spoonful of condensed milk ' (Milkmaid brand)^ a 
mustard-spoonful of mustard, a pinch of salt, and a 
table-spoonful of white vinegar ; stir all well together, 
then add a gill of stiffly whipped cream. 



Iced Cbampagoe Sauce 

Put the yolk and white of an egg into a stewpan, 
a table-spoonful of cream, a little sugar, and a tumUer- 
ful of champagne. Place the stewpan in broken tee 
and salt. Whip up all the ingredients as quickly as 
possible, and serve. 



Cherry Sauce 

Put two handfuls of cherries in a stewpan with 
our table-spoonfuls of castor sugar, a glassful of claret, 
and a grate of lemon. Let it boil up a few minutes, 
then thicken it with two table-spoonfuls of f^cule de 
pomme-de-terre mixed with cold water. 



Horse-radish Sauce & la Tedesco 

Scrape a thick stick of horse-radish and grate it 
fine. Grate also six ounces of almonds. Mix in a 



SAUCES 131 

table-spoonful of flour, add cream to make it a proper 
consistency and a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Stir over the fire till it thickens. To be eaten cold. 



Irlandaise Sauce 

Take a pint of sauce Espagnole, put it into a stew- 
pan with a glass of port wine, a table-spoonful of red- 
currant jelly, the juice of a lemon, a bay-leaf, a few 
peppercorns, a bouquet garni, a tomato, and a piece 
of chopped shalot Boil for a quarter of an hour, and 
pass through a sieve. 

This sauce can be eaten hot or cold ; if the latter 
half a pint of aspic jelly should be added. 

Italian Sauce 

Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a saucepan 
and let it simmer with two table-spoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, one of chopped shalots, and the same of 
minced mushrooms ; add a tumblerful of sauterne. 
Reduce the sauce and add a tumblerful of veloutd 
sauce and a gill of stock. Boil over a quick fire, skim 
off all grease, and when the sauce is thick enough 
take it off the fire and keep it warm in a bain-marie. 
Where no bain-marie is at hand, stand in a preserving- 
pan with hot water in it. 

Lemon Sauce 

Mix together a couple of ounces of bacon scraped, 
two lemons peeled and cut into slices, two onions 

K2 




[ Duner ana a tfJile- 
K>k and pass through a 



«»» 



Cut op some onions into dice and fry them in 
dripping till tbey are a nice colour. 

Then mix in a basin a table-spoonful of flour, the 
same of curry powder, a dessert -spoonful of mulliga- 
tawny paste, the juice of half a lemon, a table- 
spoonful of chutney, and a dessert-spoonful of desic- 
cated cocoa-nut. Mix these well together, then add 
some salt and the fried onion ; put all in a stewpan 
with a pint of good stock, and pot -on the fire to 
simmer for one hour. Tlien paaathrou^ a sieve and 
give a boil-up. 



Mayonnaise Sauce 

Put two e^s into a basin with a salt-spoonful of 
sauce, a little mignonette pepper ; stir with a woedoi 
spoon, and pour in drop by drop half a- pint of the 
best olive-oil, every now and then a tea-spoonful of 
vinegar, till all the oil is used ; stir in finely chopped 
cloves and tarragon. If chervil and tarragm are not 
handy, mince a small onion and add a few drops of 
tarragon vinegar, and for a fish mayonnaise add a few 
drops of essence of anchovy. 



SAUCES 133 

Mousseline Sauce 

Mix together equal parts of mayonnaise sauce, 
whipped aspic, and whipped cream ; flavour with 
a few drops of tarragon vinegar and a sprinkle of 
paprika. 

Mushroom Sauce 

Trim and wash the mushrooms. Make a white 
sauce, add the juice of a lemon, put in pepper and salt, 
and cook the mushrooms in it. If brown mushroom 
sauce is required, add a table-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup to it. 

Mustard Sauce 

Mix in a dessert-spoonful of mustard flour in a 
table-spoonful of flour, and make as a white sauce, 
adding a few drops of vinegar. This sauce requires 
good stirring. 

Orleans Sauce 

Take two table-spoonfuls of vinegar and add to it 
a dessert-spoonful of rich gravy, or some ofDriessen*s 
foundation sauces, and let all cook together; then 
work in gradually two ounces of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of minced parsley which has been sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. 




Take a dozen deep-sea oysters, beard them, and 
chop them in two or three pieces, according to the 
size of the oysters, and squeeze lemon and cayenne 
over theilL Take the liquor and put it into a sauce- 
pan with the beards. Scald all together for two 
mioutes, take ofTfire and strain. 

Mix in a basin a table-spoonful of cold milk and 
a table-spoonfiil of flour together. Add the strained 
oyster liquor and a few drops of anchovy essence. 
Put in a sauc^ian half an ounce of butter; when 
it boils, add the mixture from the basin and cook 
over the lire till it boils and thickens. Now add a 
good table-spoonful of cream, and boil up once more. 
Then add the oysters and serve. 

Parsley Sauce 

Make some white sauce in the usual manner, 
then add a good handful of chopped parsley, and add 
it to the sauce with a little green colouring and a 
table-spoonful of cream (though the latter is not 
necessary), and boil up. 



Pease-pudding Sauce 

This sauce is instead of pease pudding, and is 
much appreciated. Take some pea-flour and mix it 
with some good stock, a tea-spoonfiil of unmade mus- 
tard, and pepper and salt to taste. Add, according 



SAUCES 135 

to the quantity, one or two good table-spoonfuls of 
cream. Serve in a sauceboat with either hot or cold 
boiled pork. 



P^rigueux Sauce 

Cut half a pound of raw ham into dice, and 
put into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, one 
shalot, one onion sliced, and a pinch of mignonette 
pepper. Fry till the onion is a pale brown and pour 
in half a pint of marsala. Reduce one half and add 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce, half a pint of white 
stock, and a table-spoonful of chopped truffles pre- 
viously cooked in marsala. Simmer for twenty 
minutes, skim and strain into another pan, and 
reduce till it coats the spoon. 

Sauce Piquante 

Cut up a shalot, half a carrot, three mushrooms, 
and fry till brown in an ounce of butter ; then stir in 
an ounce of flour and half a pint of brown stock. 
Add a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a table-spoonful of 
Worcester or Reading sauce, and let all simmer for 
twenty minutes ; skim and add a pinch of salt, cay- 
enne, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar and strain. 

Poivrade Sauce 

Shred a head of celery, two carrots, two onions, 
one shalot, one clove of garlic, one turnip two leeks, 



136 COOKERY A LA MODE 

three tomatoes ; put them in a stewpan with a 
quarter of a pound of lean ham and two ounces of 
butter. Fry them, but not very brown. Add half a 
pint of vinegar and let boil till quite reduced ; then 
stir in three ounces of flour and three pints of stock. 
Add a bouquet garni, six cloves, twenty-four pepper- 
corns, and pepper and salt to taste ; stir well ; simmer 
for one hour ; pass through a sieve, boil up, and serve. 



Port-wine Sauce 

Put a wineglassful of port in a stewpan, a little 
thin lemon rind, a small pot of red-currant jelly, and 
stir up all together till the jelly is dissolved ; then 
strain very hot into a sauceboat, ^^k^^^k 



Portug:uese Sauce 

Cook two and a half ounces of fresh butter with 
a yolk of an e^, a little lemon-juice, salt and black 
pepper to taste ; stir till the sauce is quite hot, take 
it off the fire, and stir till it thickens. Serve as soon 
as made. 



Ravigote Sauce 

Take equal quantities of white wine and stock 
and reduce. Season with chopped tarragon, chervil 
and chives, some lemon-juice, salt and pepper to 
taste ; stir the sauce till quite thick over a quick fire, 
but it must not boil. 



SAUCES 137 

Reform Sauce 

Cut up into strips like Julienne, vegetables, truffles, 
mushrooms, lean ham, hard whites of eggs, and 
gherkins. Put them into a stewpan with six table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar ; boil, and reduce to one-third. 
Pour in half a pint of Espagnole sauce and reduce 
again ; when thick enough, add two table-spoonfuls 
of red-currant jelly, and serve. 



Remoulade Sauce 

Chop up parsley, chives, anchovies, and a bead of 
garlic ; add a little mustard and salt, stir in good salad- 
oil and whip till the sauce is thick. 



Sauce Robert 

Dissolve a piece of butter the size of a .walnut in 
a saucepan and fry with it two onions finely chopped ; 
when lightly coloured, pour in a wineglassful of 
vinegar and simmer for four minutes ; stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour, half a pint of stock, a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of Armour's extract or 0x0, and the same 
of salt. Stir all over the fire for twenty minutes, add 
a tea-spoonful of mustard, the same of mushroom 
ketchup, and one of Worcester sauce, and at the last a 
spoonful of port wine. 




Put a piece of butter, a couple of shalots, and a 
minced amoa into a stewpan and let them fry till 
cooked and brown ; add half a pint of brown gravy, 
a quarter of a pound of tamarinds, three cloves, a 
bay-leaf, a little black pepper aod salt, imd a wine 
glassful of claret ; let all simmer for twenty minotes, 
add some Parisian essence to ccdour it and a quarter 
of a spoonful of brown sugar ; sbain and serve. 

Shalot Sauce 

Put six shalots in a stewpan with one small bay- 
leaf, a sprig of thyme, and one gill of white stodc 
Reduce to a glaze, add one pint of good gravy 

Simmer for ten minutes and str^n. 

Soubtse Sauce 

Peel some onions, blanch them, and put them in a 
stewpan with some white stock just to cover them ; 
simmer till the onions are done, then reduce with the 
same quantity of white sauce as there is onion ; add 
a little pepper, salt, and cayenne ; pass through a 
tammy and serve. 

Supreme Sauce 

Put a quarter of a pound of butter into the stew- 
pan, add when dissolved twelve white peppercorns, 
a little parsley, and two ounces of flour. Cook over 



SAUCES 1 39 

the fire, stirring all the time, for ten minutes, then add 
one and a half pint of white stock ; stir again till 
it boils, add the juice of half a lemon, a little salt, 
trimmings of mushrooms, and half a pint of cream ; 
tammy and serve. 

Iced Swedish Sauce 

Mix together half a pint of thick mayonnaise, two 
table-spoonfuls of grated horse-radish, a gill of 
whipped cream, and half a gill of aspic. Place on ice 
till wanted, then cut into little squares and serve. 



Sweet and Sharp Sauce 

(Italian recipe) 

Take a good dessert-spoonful of castor sugar and 
pour over it two-thirds of a pint of vinegar. The 
Italians use one pound of pine kernels in this sauce, 
but if these are not to be had use half a pound of 
split sweet almonds. Put these with half a pound 
of currants and half a cup of grated chocolate into 
a stewpan, add the sweetened vinegar, stir and mix 
well, and place on the fire till it boils. 

Tarragon Sauce 

Take a small handful of tarragon and boil in a 
pint of milk. When soft, take it out. Chop up finely, 
pass through sieve, and mix with a small piece of 
butter. Melt an ounce of butter ; add half an ounce 



140 COOKERY A LA MODE 

of flour. Mix and add gradually the milk in which 
the tarragon was boiled. Let it boil up three times. 
Take off the fire and add the yolk of an egg beaten 
up with a little cold white stock, then add some of 
the tarragon purie and a table-spoonful of cream. 

Tartare Sauce 

Chop up the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs with 
a shalot, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, the same 
of chervil, a littie salt, pepper, and mustard ; add a 
little salad-oil. Pound all to a smooth paste, put in 
more oil to thicken it, then enough tarragon vinegar 
to flavour it sharptj'. 

Tomato Sauce 

Skin the tomatoes and press out the juice. 
Saut^ a couple of onions in butter, add the tomatoes, 
with a bouquet garni, half a chilli, a head of garlic, 
salt and pepper, a little cayenne pepper to taste, and 
cook gently for forty-five minutes. Pass through 
a sieve, put again into the stewpan and reduce. 
Thicken and boil up. It is best thickened with some 
brown thickening previously prepared. 

Truffle Sauce 

Mince the truffles finely and stew in butter, and 
add Espagnole sauce. Truffle parings are to be 
bought in bottles which are very handy for this sauce. 



. J 



SAUCES I 4 I 

ViUeroi Sauce 

Warm some butter, stir in a little flour and white 
stock, add an onion stuck with cloves, some chopped 
ham, mushroom trimmings, and a bouquet of mixed 
herbs. Boil for twenty-five minutes. Pass though a 
sieve. Thicken with yolks of eggs and cream. 



ENTREMETS AND SWEETS 



'Make your transparent sweetmeats truly nice 
With Indian sugar and Arabian spice, 
And let your various creams enrichM be 
With swelling fruit just ravished from the tree' 

Dr. King 




1. Balleiles a la Billard. 3. Pelits Galeau^i a I'Elysee. 

2. Charlreuse a la Reine. 4. BalleUes a la Joujou. 



'1 . 



.; . ' . !■ 






SWEETS OF ALL KINDS 

In making sweet dishes of all kinds it behoves the 
cook to be patient and careful, and to have all the 
ingredients good, particularly eggs, cream, and milk, 
and to keep all the utensils wholly for that purpose. 
Sieves must be kept delicately clean, and always 
dipped into hot water before they are used. 

To ice cakes and biscuits, icing sugar must be 
used, and should be either pounded or run through a 
sieve first, as it is often lumpy. 

In whipping cream, if it comes slowly, the white 
of an egg whipped in will hasten matters. 

There is a flat whisk similar in shape to a battle- 
dore, which, I find, whips cream better than aught else ; 
and the best egg-beater I have seen is a spiral elastic- 
wire one. A palette-knife is another necessity where 
much icing has to be done ; which knife is always 
useful, as it answers also for saucing fowls and other 
things. 

In making creams, the less gelatine or isinglass 
should be used as possible because they make them 
so stiff". I think, if some calPs-foot jelly were mixed 
in with them, cooks would never wish to use the 
former again ; though perhaps, in the hottest weather, 
a very little might be used. 



146 COOKERV A LA MODE 1 

Apricot Cream a la Princesse 
Make a cream in the usual way, flavoured writh 

apricots rubbed through a sieve with a little noyau ; 

colour with apricot yellow coJouring. 

Have a mould with a fanciful top, in which put in 

some clear jelly with gold leaf sprinkled in whilst it 

is in a half-liquid state. When this is set, add in the 

cream. 

When turned out, garnish with little tufts of pink 

and white jelly alternating round. (See Plate XXII.) 

Apricot Solid 

Take one dozen apricots, put them with the iuice 
and sugar into a glass dish. Boil ten ounces of sugar 
in a quart of cream with a few peach-leaves. When 
it has stopped boiling a few minutes, pour it into the 
juice, but do not stir it too much. Strawberries can 
be cooked thus, and are very delicious, flavoured with 
lemon-juice : it is then called strawberry solid. 

Ballettes & la Joi^ou 

Take some ballette-moulds, make some calfs-foot 
jelly ; divide it into six portions ; colour one carmine 
and flavour with rum punch ; colour another portion 
with green, into which some cream has been mixed 
and flavour with maraschino ; another portion colour 
with pink, that is, cream mixed with a little carmine 
and flavoured with noyau ; another portion colour with 
apricot jelly, flavour with coffee and cream ; another 
portion with simply cream flavoured with vanilla, and 



SWEETS 147 

the last portion colour with damson blue mixed with 
cream to make a good blue, flavour with brandy or 
sherry. Put each of these portions into a ballette- 
mould, put on ice till firm, turn out, and then divide 
each ballette into six portions ; then join the six por- 
tions into three colours, such as red, green, and coffee, 
and put back six into each ballette-mould, varying the 
colours in each. Pour in just a little plain liquid jelly 
through the aperture and put on ice; when again 
turned out, they will look like children's balls. (See 
Plate XVIII.) 

Ballettes a la Billard 

Make some clear jelly, divide it into eight equal 
portions ; flavour each differently and colour one red, 
one pink, one green, one yellow, one white, one blue, 
one brown, and one black. 

The pink colouring is made by adding white 
cream to the jelly, which is coloured with cochineal ; 
white by mixing cream with the jelly ; blue by mix- 
ing damson- blue with cream ; brown with essence of 
coffee and cream worked into the jelly ; black, black- 
currant jelly in which a little gelatine has been 
mixed. Have eight ballette-moulds ready and fill 
them, a different colour in each. Put on ice ; when 
frozen, turn out and serve. (See Plate XVIII.) 

Banana Blanc Mange 

Soak an ounce of gelatine in a pint of cold water 
add the strained juice of a lemon with half a pint of 

L 2 



148 COOKERY A LA MODE 

castor sugar ; set over till dissolved, taking care it 
does not boil. Strain, and let it get cold. Take 
three bananas, mash them well and beat them ; then 
whip as stiffly as possible the whites of two eggs, 
which add to the banana pulp and beat again till well 
mixed. Now put in the gelatine, adding a little 
gradually, stirring and beating the whole time, for at 
least fifteen minutes. Set in a cool place till wanted, 
and serve with it custard sauce flavoured with black- 
berry brandy or plain brandy. 



Surprise Mushrooms 

[Champignons tn Surprise) 

Take some mushroom-moulds, line the bottom 
part with a cream flavoured with either vanill 
cura^oa. The upper part of the mould should be 
made with chocolate cream, and in the little cavity 
white cream must be placed. Put the parts separ- 
ately on ice, and when set turn out the upper or 
chocolate-moulds and place them on the top of the 
lower moulds ; put on ice again, and turn out on a bed 
of green jelly flavoured with cura^oa. 

If green cura;oais used to flavour the jelly, it will 
not require any more flavouring. (See Plate XX.) 

Barberry Cream 

(Clime & rE[uiie Vlnette) 

Take half a pint of barberry jelly and half a 
tablet of Chivers' calfs-foot jelly ; mix it with a pint 



SWEETS 149 

of whipped cream. Stir over a slow fire till the jelly 
is dissolved. 

When removed from the fire, add a little cochi- 
neal, sweeten to taste, beat to a froth, and pour into a 
mould to set 

Brandy Cherries in Masquerade 

Take a bottle of brandy cherries, drain the brandy 
from them, and dust them over with sugar and flour 
mixed. 

Make an icing with the white of one egg and 
enough icing sugar to be sufficiently stiff", dip each 
cherry into this, holding the fruit by the stem. Lay 
them in the screen or some warm place to set. Should 
the cherries not be all well covered, retouch with the 
icing. When they are firm, arrange them tastefully 
in a dish with asparagus fern or maidenhair. (See 
Plate XXIII.) 

Bordure ^ la Beaconsfield 

The moulds for this entremet are to be procured 
at Jones Brothers. 

Make a cake mixture by beating up three eggs 
and four ounces of castor sugar to a cream, add four 
ounces of flour and four ounces of dissolved butter, 
which must be nearly cold ; mix w^ell and put into 
the little Savarin-moulds and bake. For the decora- 
tion of the mould prepare a custard with two yolks 
of eggs in a gill of milk and a piece of sugar, warm it 
on the fire, add a leaf of gelatine and some red 



150 COOKERY A LA MODE 

colouring, then let it get cold ; or apricot yellow may 
be used for the colouring. Line the bordure-mould 
with lemon jelly, and garnish the flowers on the top 
by means of an icing bag with the custard ; then line 
the mould with clear lemon jelly ; then place Jn the 
Madeleine cake and fill up with more jelly. When set, 
turn out and serve with either fruit or cream ice in 
the centre. 

Caltfomian Jelly 

Take a couple of ounces of pistachio kernels, 
blanch them in boiling water for two seconds, then 
throw them into cold for the same time ; dry them in a 
cloth and rub the skins off ; cut the kernels into shreds 
as fine as possible. 

Have ready some liquid but nearly set clear jelly 
flavoured with maraschino, then take some gold leaf 
(about five leaves) and blow it into the jelly and stir the 
leaf with a fork, breaking it into tiny morsels and 
stirring the whole time ; then add the shred pistachio- 
nuts, then place it into the mould or little moulds, 
and place on ice till wanted. (See Plate XXH.) 



Twentieth-century Jelly 

Make a pint of clear jelly flavoured with lenuMi, 
and before it sets, but afler it is cool, whisk till it 
becomes white ; when it is almost set, whip in some 
brandy cherries which have been drained from the 
brandy. Fill a mould with this and set on ice and 



..J 



SWEETS . 151 

turn out. A little of the jelly coloured red should be 
put into the mould first and allowed to set. A little 
of the brandy put into a cream-and-sugar sauce 
might be handed with it. 



Chartreuse St la Reine 

Line a plain round mould with pale calfs-foot 
jelly with alternate squares of lemon jelly coloured 
red and squares of jelly mixed with cream in a chess- 
board pattern. Decorate the top, as in the plate, 
with jelly and cream ; the jelly must be made 
stiff, so that it can be cut into the devices. Whip 
some cream, sweeten and flavour with fresh straw- 
berries, and fill up the mould and put on ice ; when 
sufficiently frozen, turn out and decorate the centre 
with a little chopped jelly like a wreath, and in the 
centre of that pile a little whipped red jelly ; or a little 
fruit, such as two or three strawberries, can be placed 
in the middle with angelica cut in strips and placed 
like leaves, or a bunch of red currants, just as suits 
the decorator's taste. (See Plate XVIII.) 

Coffee Cannelons 

Mix four ounces of castor sugar with three table 
spoonfuls of distilled coffee essence and a dessert- 
spoonful of flour. Add the whisked white of an egg 
to make a paste. Take pieces the size of a walnut, and 
roll them out very thin ; place them on a buttered tin 
and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Whilst 



COOKERV A LA MODE 



effi^i 



they are hot, turn them over a ruler to shape 
and sh'p them on to a sieve to dry. 



Corbeilles li la Nimrod 

Make some Cassel puddings ; cut out the centres 
within a quarter of an inch of the edge, brush the 
Dutsides over with apricot jam that has been passed 
through a sieve, and then rolled in crushed centri- 
fugal sugar. 

Fill the insides with brandy cherries, and with a 
rose pipe ornament the edges with a little white glact- 
icing, placing pieces of angelica cut into the shapes 
of leaves. Whip up some cream, flavour with cherry 
brandy, and pile on the top. 



Corbeilles de Fantalsie 

Weigh two eggs in the shell and take the same 
weight of butter, sugar, and Vienna flour. Beat the 
butter to a cream, and whisk the whites and yolks 
together for ten minutes. Add the sugar, then the 
flour, also a little grated lemon-peel and a few drops 
of any nice flavouring essence. Place in small 
dariolc-moulde and bake for twenty minutes. Turn 
them out, and when cold scoop out the middles, roll 
the outsides in apricot syrup, and then in centrifugal 
sugar or cocoa-nut. Whip some cream thickly, 
flavour with pineapple rum, and mix in pieces of 
pineapple and ftU the cases with it Cut some strips 
of angelica to form handles, and round the edge put 




. Corbeilles de Faiilaiiie. 2. Coquembouche dOra 

3. Harlequin Jelly. 



SWEETS 153 

some hundreds and thousands on with a little white 
of egg. A few grated pistachio kernels can be 
sprinkled over the cream, and it makes a pretty effect 
to colour some of the cream pink and arrange the 
baskets alternately pink and white on the dish. (See 
Plate XIX.) 



Compote of Fruit ^ la G^nevoise 

Take any kind of plain cake, cut off a slice from 
the bottom and put it on the dish it is to be served 
in. If the cake is round, cut it to a hexagonal shape ; 
if square, into an octagonal one. Then cut it into slices, 
stamping out the centres as uniformly as possible. 
This can be covered with a different coloured purte 
of jam and then covered with icing, each slice piled 
on the top of another, the last one having coloured 
icing on the top. Fill the cavity with a compdte of 
fruit, and on the top place a layer of iced fruit ; round 
the first or lower circle a few iced fruits should be 
arranged round. 

Coquembouche d'Oranges 

Take eight oranges, peel them and divide pulp 
into quarters, carefully scrape off all the white pith ; 
place the quarters evenly on a tin and let them dry 
in the kitchen for three or four hours. Take a pound 
of sugar, place it in a sugar-boiler with two gills of 
water; when nearly dissolved, place it on the fire, 
adding a tiny pinch of cream of tartar. Boil it to 



154 COOKERY A LA MODE ^^H 

cass^, then take the pan ofT the fire and plunge the 
bottom into cold water to stop the boiling. Take up 
the oranges at one end and dip them into the sugar, 
then drain them and arrange the quarters singly on 
a pastry rack ; they must not touch each other. The 
sugar having cooled, take the quarters up and dip 
them with the side kept intact into the cass6 sugar 
again. Have ready either a round of marchepain, 
nougat, or cake, about half an inch thick, and arrange 
the quarters of orange on according to Plate XIX., 
dipping them into the cass^ sugar and white of e^ so 
that they may adhere ; one row should be done at a 
time and allowed to set, then begin another row, &c 
Fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with 
orange. Ornament with glace cherries and preserved 
violets to taste. Spin some sugar and ornament as 
in Plate. Spun sugar can be put instead of the flag, 
spun in the shape of a ship, harp, or any ornament 
Keep it in a dry place till required. 



Corbellles de Nougat 

Blanch half a pound of almonds and cut each 
lengthways into narrow pieces ; lay them on a dish 
in front of the Bre to dry. Melt in a pan a quarter 
of a pound of castor sugar, and when it becomes a 
pale brown mix in the almonds, when it should 
become a soft paste. 

Make some small dariole-moulds very hot, oil 
them with almond-oil and put some of the mixture 
whilst soft in them, and with the oiled handle of a 



SWEETS 155 

teaspoon spread it round the mould as thinly as 
possible. When cold, turn out and fill with whipped 
cream flavoured with maraschino. On the top of 
each place a sugared violet with a pistachio-nut cut 
in halves, and place on each side of the violet to 
represent leaves. Make handles to the baskets by 
cutting strips of angelica and bending it across each 
basket. 



Corbeilles k la Peg Woffington 

Take six oranges, remove all peel and pith, 
divide the oranges into sections. Place these on a 
sieve and let them dry in the warm. 

Take a pound of loaf sugar and put it into half a 
pint of water, let it dissolve, then place the saucepan 
on the fire and boil till the sugar cracks. Take then 
the pan from the fire and dip each section of the 
orange in it and place them separately on the pastry- 
rack. 

Arrange these when dry in a round in rows, 
leaving a well in the centre with some melted sugar ; 
decorate with sugar violets, glac^ cherries, and pis- 
tachio-kernels. Fill the centre with whipped cream 
flavoured with pineapple and make a handle across 
with red brochettes fastened together with sugar. 



Coraucopias k la S^vign^ 

Have ready some cornucopia-moulds ; roll down 
some flaky pastry vety thin, and cut it into pieces 



156 COOKERY A LA MODE 

two and a half inches wide and ten inches long. Cut 
these again in two from corner to corner ; lay the 
wide part of the paste slips to the wide part of the 
moulds and bind them round to the point, lapping 
the paste slightly over at each fold ; wash over with 
water, dust sugar over from a dredger, and bake. 
When done, take out the moulds and set them on a 
pastry rack, and when cold lay in some whipped cream 
flavoured with any liqueur which may be preferred. 
(See Plate XXII.) 



Cr&me k la Coralie 

Make some wafers with four ounces of Vienna 
flour, eight ounces of castor sugar, and four eggs ; 
then roll out at once. Rub a baking-tin with wax 
and place it in a quick oven. Cut out twelve circles 
and curl up when hot. Oil a charlotte mould and 
place the wafers round it, each touching the other 
brushing over the inside a little sugar and water. 
Stand on ice. When ready, turn out and fill with 
stiffly whipped cream flavoured with vanilla or 
liqueur. The tops of the wafers can be ornamented 
with powdered pistachio-nuts, and the whole may 
have, if liked, spun-sugar ornamentations. 



Corbeilles 2l la Trilby 

Put half a pound of lump sugar and a gill ot 
water into a sugar-boiler and boil till the sugar 
becomes brittle. Peel five oranges, remove all the 




1. Sweel Poached Eggs. 2. Neapolitan Crea 

Surprise. 4. Rhubarb Jelly and Banana Crei 

6. Surprise Mushrooms, 7. Eggs en Surprise 

9. Macedon Jelly. 



3. Jugged Hare i Is 

5. Ocean Fbwers. 

i. Rognons a la Curio. 



r - ■ ■ • 

* ■ 

■ 
I ■ ■ 

1 * 

5 
5i 



■■:'•.'. J. 



■ ■■ : I , 



1, 
j ■ 



..•1 






SWEETS 157 

white skin, divide them into their natural sections, 
remove the pips. Then dip each section into the 
boiling sugar, holding them on the point of a fine 
skewer. Oil a mould with sweet almond-oil and 
arrange the pieces of orange at the bottom and sides 
quite closely. Keep in a dry coolish place, and when 
dry and firm turn out the shape very carefully and fill 
up the centre with whipped cream. Sprinkle ground 
pistachio-nuts over all. 

Corbeilles Fantastiques 

Weigh two eggs in the shell, and take the same 
weight of butter, sugar, and Vienna flour ; beat the 
butter to a cream, and beat the whites and yolks 
together for ten minutes, and mix them lightly with the 
butter ; add the sugar, then the flour, also some grated 
lemon-peel and a few drops of some flavouring 
essence. Bake for twenty minutes in small dariole- 
moulds, turn them out, and let them get cold. Care- 
fully scoop out the middles, cover the outsides with 
marmalade, and roll them in grated pistachio-kernels ; 
put a dessert-spoonful of brandy cherries into each 
case, make a whip of cream, flavoured with a few drops 
of ratafia, and lay on the top of each case with cherries 
well piled up. Cut angelica in strips to form handles 
to the baskets. 

Eggs en Surprise 

Take a nest-mould and fill it with wine jelly 
coloured green and which has been chopped fine, put 



rsS COOKERY A LA MODE 

it on ice for some hours, when it will all have clung 
together and turn out all right. 

Have some egg-moulds, fill two of them with 
vanilla cream and one with coffee cream and let them 
remain on ice till frozen, then turn them out and 
place in the centre of the jelly-nest. {See Plate XX.) 



Exeter Pancakes 

Whisk separately the yolks and whites of three 
eggs, stir into them gradually one dessert-spoonful of 
Vienna flour and the same of castor sugar. When 
smooth, mix in half a pint of whipped cream flavoured 
with ratafia, pour into well-buttered saucers, and 
bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. { 

Arrange the pancakes one on the top of another 
with a layer of preserved cherries in syrup between 
each, and sprinkle sugar over all. 



Fronttg^nac Jelly 

(Gel^ de FicntignacJ 

Melt some of Chivers' tablet calf s-foot jelly, and 
add three gills of still moselle. Take a bunch of white 
muscatel grapes, and one of black Hamburg grapes. 
Put a mould on the ice and fill it with the jelly, 
adding alternately the grapes. Cover with a tin 
plate, on which put some ice, and leave it for two 
hours, then turn out and serve. (See Plate XXII.) 



i 



SWEETS 159 

Gelte en Mascarade 

(Jelly in Fancy Dress) 

Make some calf's-foot jelly, or melt one of 
Lazenby's calf's-foot jellies. Colour it with sap green 
and flavour it with curagoa. When the jelly is cold* 
whisk it to a froth, then fill a round border-mould 
with it and place it on ice. Take some egg-moulds, 
or, if not at hand, blow the contents from a new- 
laid egg. Whip some cream and add to it half its 
quantity in pale-coloured jelly, and sweeten to taste ; 
divide it in half, and flavour one half with essence 
of coffee till it becomes the colour of a brown egg. 
Flavour the other half with maraschino. Fill half 
the eggs with the brown mixture, and the rest with the 
white ; place on ice, and when frozen enough turn out. 
Turn out the green border and arrange the white 
and brown eggs in it, resembling a nest as much 
as possible. A few threads of spun sugar spun over 
the border add to its natural appearance. 

Iced Souffle 

Take the yolks of six eggs, place them in a 
basin, and whisk them over a pan of hot water till 
they become light. Then whisk them over a basin 
of broken ice till cold. Mix in them a pint of 
whipped cream flavoured with a gill of serina liqueur 
and then the whipped whites of eggs. 

Pour the mixture into the souffle dish, surround 
it with a band of paper two inches higher than the 
dish, and place on ice for five or six hours. Just 



I 



1 60 COOKERY K LA MODE 

before sending it to table sprinkle some grated 
ratafia biscuits on the top, also a few pistachio-kernels 
grated, and remove the paper and put it in the outer 
souffld-dish. 



Harlequin Jelly 

Make some calfs-foot jelly, divide it into six 
portions, flavour and colour each differently — one 
white, cream and jelly mixed ; for pink, cream jelly 
and cochineal ; another red jelly, another green, 
another brown ; jelly, cream and essence of coffee 
mixed, leaving one portion, the natural jelly ; set all 
these on ice, and when nearly set whip each one sepa- 
rately, then leave on ice again ; then fill the mould with 
alternate layers of the jellies and put on ice again. 
(See Plate XIX.) 



Gel^ & la Printemps 

Take a round mould with a pipe, and fill it with 
clear jelly flavoured with green cura^oa. 

Whip some raspberry cream and pile it hi^ in 
the centre of the jelly, and sprinkle the top wnth 
pistachio-kernels and powdered violets. 



Jugsed Hare \ la Surprise 

Butter some hare-moulds and fill them with 
Genoese cake batter, pressing it well into the moulds 
with the handle of a small spoon. Bake, then turn 



SWEETS 1 6 1 

them out and leave till next day. Then trim level 
at the back. Make some little jugs in almond paste, 
dry them in a cool oven, decorate with pink piping. 
Put a teaspoonful of strawberry jam into the bottom 
of each jug, put one of the little hares into each jug, 
with the head and shoulders showing, stick a morsel 
of dried cherry with icing into the eyes, and dish up. 
(See Plate XX.) 

Mac^doine of Fruits 

(Mac^doine aux Fruits) 

Take some strawberries, half a pound of rasp- 
berries, the same of red and white currants, the same 
of cherries, the same of grapes, some apricots cut in 
quarters, pieces of pineapple and melon, bananas, 
apples, plums, peaches, figs, &c. 

Free all from their stalks, then put them into a 
rich syrup (see under * Syrup,' p. 224) ; flavour with 
either maraschino or noyau and a little brandy ; colour 
the syrup with a little carmine, and serve in a glass 
dish arranged prettily to blend the colours. Add to 
the fruit one of the bottles of fruit in syrup sold by all 
grocers ; the bananas should be cut in rounds about 
half an inch in depth. Whipped cream may be mixed 
with it if desired. 

Macedon Jelly 

Wet a mould with cold water, then pour into it a 
little dissolved calf 's-foot jelly and allow it to cool. 
Place in the hollows of the mould grapes, slices ot 

M 



} 



' iCa COOKKRV A LA MODE V 

buuna*, then pour In another layer of jell/ and Ul^" 
it tet Add rooie fruit, al»D crystalliKd viokts and-: 
nue-leflvcm. Continue till the mould is full ; put on 
fee, and, when cold, turn out and nerve whipped creaok/ 
round ft. (See Plate XX.) 

Mulberry JeUjr 

Mash the mulberries and pass them throuj^ a«leM^ 
then put the juice Into a jjrcserving-pan and reduce k. 
Add twelve ounces of loaf sugar to each pound of 
juice ; boil it till it leaves the sides of the pan, and. 
put it into small moulds. When set torn ont TMl 
makes a very nice dessert sweet 



NciVoUtui Cream 

Put half an ounce of leaf gelatine into a sm^l 
saucepan with a gill of cold water to soak, next place 
it on the fire and stir till the gelatine is melted. 
Whip to a stiff froth a pint of double cream and stir 
into the gelatine through a strainer ; divide the cream 
into iive equal parts, and put each part into a sepa- 
rate baHin, Mix two tabk;-spoonfuIs of made coffee 
into rjnc, a table'Spoonful of maraschino or white 
cura^oa liqueur into a second, three tabte-spoonfuts 
of pounded pistachios tinted with sap-green colourii^ 
into the third, two table-spoonfuls of strawberry jam 
passed through a sieve coloured with a little cochineal 
into the fourth, and into the fifth two table-spoonfuls 
of apricot jam passed through a sieve and coloured 
with apricot ycUow and the smallest quantity of 



SWEETS I 63 

saffron yellow. Have a Neapolitan mould ready, 
and, if one is not handy, use a plain round mould and 
put a layer of lemon jelly coloured red at the bottom. 
When this is set, add one at a time the different 
creams in layers, waiting till each has set before 
putting in another. Put on ice for three hours, turn 
out, and ornament with sugar violets and glac6 
cherries. (See Plate XX.) 

Orange Chartreuse 

Make a quart of orange jelly. Take some tan- 
gerine oranges, peel them and divide them into sec- 
tions, clearing away all white skin and pips. Melt 
the jelly enough to pour out. Have two plain round 
moulds, one an inch larger in diameter than the other. 
Pour a very little of the jelly at the bottom of the 
larger mould, let it set, then place on it some of the 
quarters of oranges in rounds ; cover with more jelly, 
but only enough to get a plain service. Lay on ice 
to set; when quite firm, place the smaller mould 
inside, oiling the bottom which touches the jelly with 
sweet oil. The mould must be very accurately put 
in. In the space between the mould place quarters 
of orange, and then jelly, and so on, till the mould is 
full, but at each layer the mould must be put on ice. 
Whip up a pint of cream, flavour with some pulped 
and sweetened orange which has been tammied, dis- 
solve half an ounce of isinglass in a very little milk 
and add to it ; remove the inner mould by pouring 
warm water into it. Fill up the inner space with 
the cream set on ice, and turn out. 

M2 



l64 COOKERY A LA MODE ^^^^| 

Ocean Flowers 

Make some jelly with white leaf gelatine sweetened 
to taste, flavoured with maraschino. 

Take some little fish moulds and fill them with 
vanilla cream coloured with Marshall's cherry red, 
into which some silver leaf has been sprinkled, and 
put them on ice for three hours. Take a plain 
round mould, chemise it with the white jelly ; when 
it is set, put in a little more of the white jelly and put 
on ice. Turn out the little fish-moulds and place 
them on the jelly as if swimming, placing just a little 
jelly in to keep them in place. Put again on ice and 
add more jelly to the depth of an inch and a half, put 
on ice again, place on more fish and ice, and then 
more jelly and so on till the mould is full ; when cold, 
turn out and dish and place round the base some 
whipped cream coloured green. Arrange it roughly 
to look like waves, and here and there place a little 
stiffly beaten white of egg to look like foam, and 
garnish with little shells of pink cream around. (See 
Plate XX.) 



Oyster Surprise i la Baden Powell 

Take some oyster-moulds and line them with 
some very pale calfs-foot jelly. Make some vanilla 
cream and place a piece the size and shape of an 
oyster in each mould, edged round with a little /ale 
chocolate cream. Place on ice to set, then turn out 
and serve up on a mound of strawbeny cream. 
Garnish with quarters of lemon made with gelatine 



SWEETS 1 65 

and sugar, which are to be bought at most confec- 
tioners'. 



Orange Sandwiches 

Grate the yellow skin of an orange, then squeeze 
out the juice. Put half a pound of flour, three ounces 
of sugar, and two ounces of butter into a basin and 
sift into it half a tea-spoonful of soda ; rub the butter 
and flour well together till it is quite a paste. Put 
the yolks of three eggs into a basin, beat well, add 
the grated orange-juice and rind. Mix thoroughly, 
then add one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar and mix 
again ; pour all into the basin with the flour, &c., and 
mix well. Beat the whites of the three eggs till stiff 
and stir them in ; pour all into two well-buttered 
sandwich cake-tins and bake till ready. When cool, 
split, and spread with a mixture made thus : — One 
orange, three ounces of icing sugar, one white of egg. 
Grate the orange-rind, press out the juice and mix 
the sugar into it, beat the white stiffly and stir in. 
Spread it over the cakes ; put the two sides together 
and cut neatly. 

Pear Mould 

Take a tin of Bartlett pears or those sold in 
bottles, and arrange them in a mould in tiers, the 
pear to be turned in an opposite direction in each tier. 
Put the syrup into a saucepan with half an ounce of 
melted gelatine, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, three 
ounces of sugar, and boil up till it becomes a rich 



l66 COOKERY A LA MODE 

thick syrup ; add a wineglass of maraschino wiS 
few drops of cochineal, and strain over the pears ; put 
on ice for three or four hours and turn out. 



Pears a la Stfvign^ 

Put into a stewpan four yolks of eggs with six 
ounces of castor sugar, work well with a wooden 
spoon, and dilute the mixture with a pint of milk 
flavoured with vanilla ; stir over the fire till it 
thickens, without letting it boil ; add three boiled and 
mashed pears and rub through a hair sieve ; add half 
a glass of liqueur and set to freeze. When properly 
frozen, take a spoon and mould some of the ice into 
the shape of a pear, cut it open with a knife, introduce 
into the centre a little apricot jam, a few dry currants 
to represent the pips, and place a piece of angelica 
to imitate the stalk. Make a pistachio ice-cream, rub 
it through a sieve to imitate moss, and dish the pears 
on it. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream 

Take one of the cheap West India pineapples, 
peel it and grate the fruit ; cook it in a quarter of a 
pound of sugar ; add one ounce of leaf gelatine melted 
in milk and the juice of an orange. Leave to get 
cold, then put in half a pint of cream, and place in a 
deep border-mould on ice. When ready, turn out and 
decorate with the natural leaves of the pineapple in 
the centre, and serve round the mould with chopped 
pineapple and syrup. 



SWEETS 167 

Pineapple Layer Cake 

Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, add half 
a pound of castor sugar, mix and beat well together ; 
add the yolks of five eggs, six ounces of flour, two 
ounces of cornflour, and a tea-spoonful of baking 
powder. Beat well, then mix in a tea-spoonful of 
essence of vanilla and two table-spoonfuls of sherry. 
Grease three round tins and pour in the cake mixture 
and bake in a fairly quick oven for fifteen minutes. 
When done, turn out the cakes to cool for a few 
minutes. Take some chunks of pineapple and slice 
them very thinly. Beat the whites of two eggs lightly 
and add four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and 
continue beating till stiff enough to stand alone. Put 
a layer of this over the top of one cake, then a layer of 
the sliced pineapple ; stand another cake on the top, 
put the remainder of the white beaten eggs over the top 
of this cake, then another layer of apricots. Place the 
remaining cake on the top of this, press down lightly, 
and dust the top over with castor sugar. 



Pinea^pple Souffle 

Take a quarter-pound of potato flour, a quarter- 
pound of butter, three ounces of powdered sugar, a 
quarter-pound of pineapple chunks ; warm this 
mixture on the stove, stirring till quite smooth, then 
add half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. 

Take the yolks of six eggs and mix them in one 
by one ; beat the whites to a stiff froth and add, then 



COOKERY A LA MODE 

fill the soufBe^ase with this mixture. Bake for about 
twenty minutes and serve before it falls. 

Pistachio Cream 

Blanch some pistachio-kernels, say a pound, put 
them into a mortar with a wireglassful of cognac and 
beat them to a paste. Then add a quart of whipped 
cream into which a few sheets of dissolved gelatine 
have been put, and a table-spoonful of castor sugar ; 
colour with a. little of Marshall's sap-green colouring 
till it is a pale pretty green. 

Ornament the top of the mould with clear jelly, 
then put in the pistachio mixture, put on ice, and, 
when cold, turn out and place a few crystallised violets 
daintily on the top. 

Pyramid of Peaches 

Cut some sponge-cakes in rounds, soak them in 
brandy or rum, place on each the half of a peach, in 
the centre of which place the kernel from the peach- 
stone Make some thick syrup, flavour with brandy 
and cura^oa and pour over ; spin some sugar and 
ornament it with. 

Iced Raspberry Fool 

Pick and stalk one pound of raspberries ; stew 
them in half a pint of syrup until tender, then rub 
through a hair sieve ; add some cochineal and a pint 
of good cream, and freeze in an ice machine. 



SWEETS 1 69 

Make the syrup of two pounds of white sugar 
with half a pint of water whisked up with a tea- 
spoonful of the white of an egg ; let the sugar 
dissolve, stirring it up ; then put the pan on the fire 
and stir it with a sugar-spoon till it boils ; put it on 
the side of the fire, and as it boils add at different 
times another quarter of a pint of water ; this 
causes the egg to come to the top, and after two 
minutes' boiling the syrup will come quite clear ; then 
strain it through a napkin and it will be ready for 
use. 

Raspberry Jelly ^ la Dieppe 

Make some raspberry jelly with a pound of rasp- 
berries and a pint and a half of raspberry syrup, 
strain through a fine tammy, add an ounce and a 
half of clarified gelatine made with a pint and a 
half of hot water, have ready a mould, and pour a 
little of the jelly in it and place on ice. When it is 
set, make a layer of white currants and cover with 
jelly and let it set; then add another layer of red 
currants and jelly until the mould is full, then imbed in 
ice till cold enough to turn out. (See Plate XXII.) 

Rhubarb Jelly and Banana Cream 

Cook a pound of rhubarb with half a pound of 
sugar, a table-spoonful of lemon juice, and three- 
quarters of an ounce of gelatine, mix in half a pint of 
cream, colour with a little cochineal. Take half a dozen 
or eight bananas, remove the skins, and pass the fruit 



170 COOKERY A LA MODE ^^^| 

through a tammy ; add the juice of an orarl^^^^ 
quarter of a pound of sugar and threenquarters of an 
ounce of gelatine, and half a pint of cream. Have 
ready a mould, and place these pulps in it in layers. 

A little apricot yellow added to the banana 
mixture is an improvement. (See Plate XX.) 

Rognons ^ la Curio 

Cut some Madeira cake into neat squares, soak 
them in cherry brandy, and arrange them in a silver 
entree dish. Make a mixture of half cream and half 
lemon jelly, which has been streaked with a feather 
dipped into cochineal, then cut into slices the size and 
shape of slices of bacon and lay on the brandied cake. 

Make some coffee cream well stiffened with calf's- 
foot jelly and put it on ice ; when cold, cut it into the 
shape of sheep's kidneys and lay it on the imitation 
bacon. A few Bnely minced pistachio-kernels should 
be scattered in the centre of each kidney to imitate 
parsley. (See Plate XX.) 

Royal Pudding 

Make a custard with a pint of milk, sugar to taste, 
half an ounce of gelatine, and three yolks of eggs. 
Set a mould with glac^ cherries and strips of angelica, 
then put in a little of the custard mixture till it cools. 
When cold, have ready three sponge-cakes soaked in 
sherry and brandy, place these in the centre of the 
mould, and when the mixture is nearly cold add 
citron cut small, sultanas and glac£ cherries, a table- 



SWEETS 171 

spoonful of brandy and a tea-spoonful of vanilla 
essence to the custard ; mix lightly together ; put it 
round inside the mould so as not to displace the cake ; 
put on ice and turn out. The sultanas should be 
steamed and not used till cold. 

Pudding k la San Toy 

Make a good custard flavoured with vanilla and 
sweeten to taste, strain and add half a pint of cream, 
a gill of maraschino, the juice of half a lemon, and a 
little gelatine dissolved in milk. Put the whole into 
a pretty pudding-mould and place on ice, then turn 
out and ornament it with little rosettes of whipped 
red jelly and sugar violets. 

Strawberry Pudding 

Make two pints of strawberry pur^e and mix with 
it three-quarters of a pound of castor sugar. Melt 
one and a half ounce of gelatine in a gill of milk. 
When nearly cool, strain it through a tammy into the 
pur^e, stirring it well. Decorate a plain round mould 
with almonds and pistachio-kernels in pretty designs, 
put it on the ice, and when the decorations are set, 
fill in the pur^e, and let it remain in ice till required, 
when it can be turned out and clotted cream served 
with it. 

Sweet Poached Eggs 

Take a sponge-cake and cut it into slices about 
half an inch thick, stamp them out into neat rounds 



172 COOKERY A LA MODE 

with a cutter, and let them soak in brandy for a little 
while. Mix some cream and calfs-foot jelly together 
(of course the jelly must be melted), the cream 
flavoured with a little apricot syrup ; put the cream 
into a large flat dish to the thickness of about an 
inch, place the cream on ice till firm ; when it 
be cut into rounds with a cutter, put these rounds 
of cream on the round of cake, and take some 
apricots from a tin of preserved apricots. Let 
them drain from the syrup and place one on each 
round of cream. (See Plate XX.) 



^ 



strawberries en Paradis 

Take some fine targe strawberries and place them 
in a quart mould ; sugar them well after stalking them. 
Cover them thickly with either Devonshire cream 
or thickly whipped cream. Put buttered paper over 
the top tightly and immerse them in ice for ten hours, 
then turn out. This is a most delicious dish. 



Trifle i la Old Century 

This must be prepared nine or ten hours before it 
is required. Take a pound sponge-cake rather stale 
a quarter of a pound of each of greengage, apricot 
and strawberry jam, a quarter of a pound of orange 
marmalade, half a pint of marsala or raisin wine, a 
wineglassful of brandy, the same of cura^oa and 
ginger wine, iive ounces of loaf sugar, six fresh e^s, 
one pint of milk, half a pint of thick cream (Devon- 



i 



SWEETS 173 

shire cream preferred), two ounces of blanched sweet 
almonds, one ounce of ratafias, and a teaspoonful of 
vanilla essence. Cut the cake into five slices. Put 
the top slice aside and spread the other four with 
the different jams. Put two ounces of sugar into the 
wine, mix the brandy and liqueurs in also ; lay the 
ratafias in a glass dish, and on them the bottom slice 
of the cake. Pour a little of the wine over them, put 
on another slice of cake on the top of the other, and 
more wine and so on till the cake is built up ; keep 
pouring the wine over till it is all used up. Make a 
rich custard flavoured with brandy, let it get quite 
cold ; cut the almonds in pointed slices, stick the 
top of the cake with them, and when ready to serve 
pour over the custard. 



WalnutSi to Candy 

Shell the walnuts carefully without breaking them, 
remove the skins by putting them into boiling water, 
then throw them into a glassful of sherry, afterwards 
put them into clarified sugar just heated and flavoured 
with a little rose-water. Put them into a stewpan 
over the fire for five minutes, letting them simmer 
slowly. Next draw the saucepan aside, and when 
the mixture is nearly cool take the walnuts from the 
syrup and set them on a dish to cool. Sprinkle castor 
sugar over them. 



■ ■» 



>: 



! 

'"•■} 

t 



■1 



H. 






i 






SAVOURffiS AND HORS^D^CEUVRES 



' Elements ! each other greeting, 
Gifts and powers attend ye meeting' 

The Pirate 



. 



f. 






SAVOURIES AND HORS-D'CEUVRES 

In speaking of savouries and their cousins hors- 
d'oeuvres, I have little to say beyond giving a few 
recipes, as of course it is care only in the cooking 
and garnishing that makes these little dainties so 
appetising. Aspic jelly is one of the principal factors 
in cold savouries, also the fineness of the chopping of 
parsley, egg and lobster coral, which are mostly used. 
Parsley should be dried, white and yolks of eggs 
rubbed separately through a fine sieve, and lobster 
coral pounded in a mortar ; lobster spawn should be 
placed in a muslin bag and dipped in a saucepan of 
boiling water till the proper colour is obtained, and 
then dried and pounded, unless it is desired to 
sprinkle the dainties with it whole. 

I have not given many savoury recipes, as the little 
volume * Savouries k la Mode ' devoted to savouries 
leaves but little more to say. 



Anchovy Trifles 

Make some anchovy biscuit-paste, cut it into 
rounds the size of half a crown ; on that place a curled 
and boned anchovy. Have ready some whipped 
cream flavoured with cayenne and a /iU/e essence of 

N 



178 COOKERY A LA MODE 

anchovy, and put on the top of the anchovy in a 
rocky fashion. This makes a good hors-d'ceuvre as 
well as a savoury. 

Baskets ^ la Savarin 

Make some short paste into which a little anchovy 
cream has been introduced ; line some basket-moulds 
with it and bake, and fill them when baked with 
anchovy cream flavoured with cayenne, and curl a 
boned anchovy on the top. Make paste handles to 
the basket. This is a very pretty and tasty dish. 
Garnish with cress. 

Brioches & la Devon 

Take three table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce. 
some finely chopped celery, a small shalot, well- 
pounded pieces of lobster, anchovies, sardines, prawns 
or shrimps, and oysters, a little tarragon and chervil 
finely minced. Mix these ingredients with the 
mayonnaise sauce and fill the brioche-cases (which 
are best bought) ; run butter through the forcer round 
the edges of the cases. 

Stand them on Montpellier butter (see this in 
' Savouries k la Mode ' ), strew lobster coral and hard- 
boiled yolks of e^s passed through a sieve on the 
top of each. Serve with chopped aspic round. 

Caviare Sandwiches 
Take two table-spoonfuls of caviare, place it in a 
basin, mix it with some finely chopped shalot the 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D*CEUVRES 1 79 

juice of half a lemon and a pinch of cayenne pepper ; 
stir these thoroughly together. Butter some thin 
slices of brown bread, spread with the above mixture, 
pressing them together sandwich-fashion ; cut them 
into three-cornered pieces and serve as a hors- 
d'oeuvre. 



Croutes ci la Dunkeld 

Cut some rounds of bread the size of a five- 
shilling-piece, fry them a pale colour. Take some 
remains of grouse, curry them and chop fine ; place 
some in a little mound on each croftton and scatter 
hard-boiled white of egg over, which has been passed 
through a fine strainer; sprinkle a very little dry 
parsley over each ; send to table very hot 



Cucumber and Prawn Salad 

Take some prawns and skin them, or use the pre- 
pared Barathea prawns, soak them in mayonnaise, 
pile up in a mound, and serve cucumber cut into pea- 
shapes round in clumps, and which have been coated 
with aspic jelly. 

Darioles 2l la Como 

Take some little fluted dariole-moulds and mask 
them with very pale aspic. Cut some truffles into fanci- 
ful small shapes and decorate the moulds with them, 
adding a little more aspic to do so. Put on ice till 



iSO COOKERY A LA MODE 

set, then fill the moulds with an ounce of Parmesan 
cheese, one ounce of Gruyere finely grated, a very 
little cayenne, salt to taste. Stir into this half a pint 
of whipped cream, into which a little of the aspic 
has been added and flavoured with a few drops of 
essence of anchovy. Put on ice. When set, turn 
out and serve with pink aspic jelly arranged in little 
heaps round, sprinkled with a little parsley chopped 
as fine as dust. 



Devilled Oysters 

When the oysters are opened, retain them and 
their liquor in the deep shfill. Insert cayenne pepper 
and salt to taste, and put the shells on the gridiron 
with a piece of butter on the top of each oyster. 
With a clear bright fire it will take three to four 
minutes to cook them. 

Brown bread and butter should be served with 
them. 



Medallions of Foie-gras i la Rosi^« 

Make a pretty rice socle in a border-mould 
coloured a deepish yellow. Make one in a similar 
but smaller mould. When ready turn out and place 
one on the top of the other and make some me- 
dallions of foie-gras well trufRed, masked in white 
aspic cream decorated with a truffle cut like a rose in 
the centre. Arrange them in two tiers and surmount 
the top with whipped aspic jelly sprinkled over with 
finely-grated pistachio and trufHe. (See Plate V.) 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-d'cEUVRES i8i 

Eggs "k la Besciamdlla 

Take three ounces of butter, three small onions, 
and a large bunch of parsley. Cut the onions in 
very fine slices and mince the parsley finely. Put 
these into a stewpan with a small quantity of very 
fine flour, add two gills of milk and two of cream. 
Boil and stir gently till this sauce is sufficiently 
thickened. Boil ten eggs hard, throw them into cold 
water, remove the shells, and then take away the 
white of the eggs, leaving the yolks whole. 

Cut the whites into strips and add to the sauce. 
Garnish a dish with very slightly fried sippets, put 
the sauce in the centre, and on it arrange eight of the 
hard yolks, having first dipped them in clarified 
butter, and then into fine bread-crumbs and grated 
Parmesan. 

Put the remaining yolks through a sieve and 
scatter them equally over the other eggs. Let the 
dish bake in a slow oven for half an hour, and serve. 

Great attention is required in the baking. 



Fish Balls "k la Bizarre 

Pound in a mortar some dried cooked haddock 
with butter, a quarter of a pound of each ; add a little 
paprika ; form into balls the size of golf-balls, roll 
them in beaten egg and fry them. Have ready 
separately some very finely powdered parsley, some 
powdered lobster coral, some yolk of egg, hard-boiled 
and sieved, and the white chopped hard. Roll some 



\ 



1S2 COOKERY A LA MODE 

in the coral, some in parsley, some in the yolk, and 
some in the white. Arrange them in a pyramid, 
assorting the colours prettily. (See Plate XX!.) 



Fromage a la Sufide 

Take six ounces of grated Gruyere cheese and a 
table-spoonful of corn-flour and put them into a 
basin. Mix well, add a pinch of salt and cayenne ; 
stir in the yolks of two eggs, a table-spoon ful of 
cream, and a tabie-spoonful of clarified butter. Work 
this mixture till smooth, then pour it into a stewpan 
and stir over the fire til! it thickens, and then let cool. 
Roll out some rough puff paste, cut it into neat strips 
about three inches long and one broad. Spread the . 
cheese mixture evenly on the paste. Place another 
strip on the top. Brush over with beaten e^, and 
bake for a quarter of an hour. 



Kippers & la Sutton 

Take some kippered herring which has been fried 
and freed from bones, mince it small, and place it 
in a mortar with a piece of butter, a little minced 
parsley, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a tea-spoonful 
of anchovy sauce, and a table- spoon ful of cream ; form 
it into pyramidal shapes, place it on fried croQtons, 
and decorate with a tiny leaf of parsley on the top. 

If cream is not handy, whip up the white of egg 
with a little salt and place decoratively on the top of 
the pyramids. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D*CEUVRES 1 83 

Lamb Sandwiches 

Line some sandwich-moulds with aspic jelly 
flavoured with mint ; when set, lay on the jelly some 
very thin slices of cold lamb, on which lay some shreds 
of cucumber, cover with more of the jelly, and put on 
ice ; then turn them out on a bed of lettuce shred 
very fine and decorate with cucumber cut to pea 
shapes, and moistened with French salad-dressing. 



Lobster Salad 

(Superior) 

Make a good stiff mayonnaise sauce, lay the 
white leaves of a lettuce at the bottom of the dish, 
cover with mayonnaise, then lay on some pieces of 
lobster neatly cut, then some more lettuce finely 
shred and more sauce, then another layer of lobster, 
and cover thickly with mayonnaise ; decorate round 
with. a row of cucumber cut thin, and on each piece 
of cucumber place a thin slice of a small radish. Place 
another row beyond the cucumber of little rounds of 
beetroot alternately with quarters of hard-boiled eggs 
(little designs such as leaves of white aspic can be 
arranged on the mayonnaise), then a sprinkling of 
lobster coral ; insert in the middle to stand upright a 
spray of the white of endive, and on either side 
arrange some of the lobster antennae. (See Plate IV.) 



184 COOKERY A LA MODE 



^ 



Macaroni alia Napoli 

Take some clear soup and mix with it some 
tomato paste, boil it till it becomes the thickness of 

im and pour it over a pound of macaroni which 
has been boiled Jn milk and strained ; sprinkle a little 
Parmesan cheese over it. Be sure to get the real 
Naples tomato-paste for this dish. 



Mushroom SouR16 

Steam a dozen mushrooms, tammy them, and stir 
in two ounces of bread-crumbs and the same of butter, 
squeeze of lemon and a spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup. Stir till it boils, then take off the fire and 
in the yolks of three lightly whisked eggs ; add 
the whites, which must be beaten to a very stiflF 
froth, and mix in gradually. Pour the mixture into 
a buttered soufS^-dish, bake from twenty to thirty 
minutes and serve quickly. 



Oysters k la Flamande 

Roll the oysters singly in yolk of e^, then dip 
them in grated bread-crumbs and white pepper one 
by one, and fry them in butter. Serve with white 
sauce in which the liquor from the oysters has been 
strained, and the juice of a lemon. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D*CEUVRES 1 85 

Oysters Si la Montreal 

Make a batter as for fritters, in which mix a little 
of the oyster liquor and a little cayenne ; sprinkle the 
oysters with lemon-juice, dip them one by one in the 
batter and put in a frying-basket and fry quickly. 
Serve in a heap as hot as possible. 



Oyster Pancakes 

Take a dozen oysters, or as many as may be 
required, beard them and sprinkle them with a little 
cayenne and a few drops of lemon-juice, then dip 
them into a good batter and fry quickly in the usual 
way ; this will make six slnall pancakes. Lobster 
pancakes may be made in the same way, dividing a 
lobster into neat pieces. Another way would be to 
make the pancakes in the ordinary way and place 
the oysters inside and roll them over. 



Oyster Souffle Iced 

Take twenty-four deep-sea oysters, mince them, 
and rub them through a wire sieve. Blanch and 
beard a dozen more and cut each into four pieces. 

Put two ounces of flour and one ounce of butter 
into a stewpan and mix well together over the fire, 
then add a gill of the oyster liquor and stir till it 
thickens ; then add half a pint of whipped aspic 

jelly. 

Place the oysters into a mortar and pound them 



r86 COOKERY A la mode 

well together, adding two yollvs of e^s, a little salt, 
cayenne, six drops of essence of anchovy, and a gill 
of cream ; beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff 
froth and stir them into the mixture very lightly, then 
put in the oyster pieces. Line a mould with aspic 
jelly, and put this mixture inside and freeze. Garnish 
with chopped aspic. 



Parmesan Tartlets 

Line some tartlet-tins with puff paste. Take two 
ounces of cream curd, one ounce of butter, and mix 
very smoothly ; add two ounces of flour and one 
and a half ounce of grated Parmesan cheese with 
not quite a gill of milk. Cook over the fire till the 
mi.Kture does not cling to the pan. Remove from the 
fire and beat well in three small eggs, one at a time, 
and fill the tartlet-tins with this mixture. 



Poached Eggs in Puff Paste 

Poach four to six eggs, trim and let them get cold. 
Make a mixture with a teaspoonful of chopped capers, 
gherkins, olives and parsley, a little essence of anchovy 
worked smoothly into some good thick cream, as 
much cayenne as will lie on the top of a sixpence, 
and a squeeze of lemon-juice ; the latter added very 
slowly. Work all the ingredients quickly ; enclose 
each egg with some of the mixture into a small cover 
of puff paste. Bake in a quTck oven. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D*CEUVRES 1 87 

Pork au Nid 

Take a nicely shaped savoy, cut out the stalk and 
the centre, leaving it looking like a nest, which fill 
with pork cut into dice shapes and soaked in Robert 
sauce or tomato sauce ; put over the fire and steam till 
the cabbage is cooked. Have some onion and stuffing- 
balls ready, which arrange in heaps round the cabbage, 
alternating with stiff apple sauce. (See Plate XXI.) 



Prawns au Naturel it la Mode 

Prawns are generally dressed on a lemon, but a 
novelty is to send them up in little silver shrimp-nets. 
When they can be handed round, hanging to these 
nets are little prawn-servers in the shape of boathooks. 
The nets can be used also to serve watercress * in 
when handed with cheese. (See Plate XII.) 



Royal Omelets 

Take six eggs, two soft roes of fresh herrings, three 
chopped truffles, two cockscombs, and one kidney, and 
saut^them in butter. Stew the truffles in half a tumbler 
of champagne and dust the other ingredients with flour 
and stew them. After which mix all together. Make 
an omelet in the usual way with the eggs. Place half 
the mixture in the omelet, fold it up, and serve the 
remainder of the ingredients round it. 



COOKERV A LA MODE 



Russian Tartlets 



Make very light pastry and line some tins with it 
Then take some oysters scalded in their own liquor, 
one grated table-spoonful of horse-radish, one gill 
of stock, some lemon-juice, one table-spoonful of 
vinegar, one gill of white sauce, and one tea-spoonful 
of capers, half a gill of the oyster liquor, and a veiy 
little salt. Let all these boil a few minutes. Then add 
off the fire the yolk of an egg whisked up ; now 
add the oysters, then put pieces of lobster, sardines 
and anchovies at the bottom of the tartlet-cases, and 
fill up with oysters and sauce. Sprinkle over each 
lobster coral and parsley rubbed through a sieve and a 
few capers. Make hot in the oven for ten minutes 
and serve at once. 



Sardines ^ la Madras 

Stamp out some rounds of bread the size of a 
florin and half an inch thick, fry them a pale brown 
and lightly, so that they may be soft Then spread 
them with a mixture made with a table-spoonful of 
sardines, butter, cream, and a sprinkle of curiy powder 
mixed to a paste. Add half a tea-spoonful of French 
mustard, a dust of paprika, and a salt-spoonful of 
grated lemon-peel. Beat this up and spread it on 
the fried bread, arranging it into neat little pyramids 
with a knife dipped in hot water ; place in a hot oven 
for three minutes, and garnish the centre of each with 
half a farced olive and serve. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-d'cEUVRES 1 89 

Sardines a la Valetta 

Stamp out in rounds, the size of a florin, slices of 
Hovis bread, and pound up together six or eight 
sardines (removing their skins first) with the yolks of 
a couple of hard-boiled eggs and an ounce of butter 
Then spread some on the slices of bread ; chop up 
some mustard and cress and radishes, finely sprinkle 
with a little oil and vinegar, and put on another slice 
of bread. Then spread the top of each with aspic 
jelly and sprinkle over the finely-chopped white of 
egg, and over that some coralline pepper. 



Savoury a la Primrose 

Cut some crofitons the size of a crown piece, fry 
lightly and moistly. 

Take a shalot and fry it in butter, bruising it first ; 
add two or three eggs, a little more butter, a trifle of 
parsley, and the pulp and juice of a tomato ; scramble 
them all up together, stirring with a fork in the way 
scrambled eggs are done, and place some on each of 
the crofltons. 

Savoury & la Ravissante 

Cut some pieces of bread three inches long and 
one wide half an inch thick. Hollow out the centre 
and fry ; fill the centre with the soft roes of fresh 
herrings, with an oyster in each, which must be sauted 
in butter for a minute or so ; one squeeze of a lemon 



should be added just before serving, with a dust of 
cayenne. These must be served very hot. 

Tartlets Bizarres 

Take some tartlet-pans and line them with puff 
paste ; bake them and roll out some very thin paste, 
and place across so as to make four divisions ; fill one 
division with anchovy cream, in the second lobster 
cream, in the third oyster or Parmesan cream, and 
in the fourth tomato cream. Sprinkle, according to 
taste, lobster cora! and parsley over. 

Arrange the tartlets on a bed of chervil garnished 
with small French radishes. (See Plate XXI.) 

Titbits k la Mikado 

Cut some bread into little squares about two and 
a half inches square and a quarter of an inch thick ; 
fry them in clear butter, then spread them with 
tomato butter (not too thickly), then lay a broiled 
mushroom on each \ pepper and salt to taste. Strain 
thewhiteof a hard-boiled egg over, and on the top of 
that a little of the yolk to the size of a shilling, and 
on the top of all a light sprinkling of parsley. 

Tom Thumb Souffle 

Take some china ramequin-cases, butter them and 
break an egg into each ; season with pepper, salt, 
finely minced parsley and chives, and a little grated 
Parmesan and bake in the oven for a few minutes. 




1. Taitlets Bizarre. 3. Fish Bills a la Bizarre. 

2. Cigarettes h la Royale. 4. Pork au Nid. 



..■-II 



'i- 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D CEUVRES I91 

Iced Tomato Curry 

Cut some tomatoes in slices, cook them slightly ; 
chop a small onion and a shalot small and fry them 
in butter ; add a heaped-up dessert-spoonful of curry 
powder, half a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a table- 
spoonful of desiccated cocoa-nut, a little cayenne, 
and four table-spoonfuls of good gravy. Simmer all 
together except the tomatoes for half an hour ; then 
add the tomatoes and a tiny piece of sweet chutney ; 
put on ice, and serve with iced boiled rice. 

Tomato Jelly and Bloater Roes 

Cook two pounds of tomatoes ; when cooked, add 
half a pint of aspic jelly, pour into a cold round 
border- mould and put on ice. When cold, turn out 
and fill with bloater roes that have been cooked in 
butter and rolled in whipped cream flavoured with a 
little cayenne. 

Toronto Moulds 

Boil some macaroni till tender, butter some dariole- 
moulds and line them with it. Mince the remains 
of any kind of game or poultry with a little tongue 
and a few chopped mushrooms, pistachio-nuts and 
truffle peelings ; season to taste ; add a very little 
Parmesan cheese with sufficient velout^ sauce to 
make a stiff paste ; fill the moulds with the mixture 
and steam for three-quarters of an hour ; turn out and 
serve with tomato sauce. These can also be served 
cold ; if the latter, serve tomato salad with it. 



COOKERY \ LA MODE 



Truffles a I'ltalienne 

Melt four ounces of butter, add two ounces of the 
best salad-oil, a little parsley, a shalot, a small onion, 
a clove of garlic, and fry all together. 

Peel the truffles very carefully, cut them into 
slices and add them to the fried ingredients ; add 
pepper and salt to taste. When well mixed, add a 
pinch of fiour and a little boiling fish stock. Add a 
tumbler of boiling champagne and stew slowly till 
ail is cooked. Fry some sippets and pour the con- 
tents of the stewpan over the fried bread ; place more 
sippets at the edge of the dish and garnish with 
lemon. The shalot, &c., must be finely minced and 
the garlic taken out before the truffles are added. 



CAKES, &c. 



'The reward that sweetens labour' 






i 

4 ■ 

■■5 






I. 



> .1 
■'I 



< t 



; 1 

I 



PLATE XXIt. 




1. Ca.kE aux Plslaches. 2. Californian Jelly. 3. Co mu copies A la 
Sevignc. 4. Fro ntignac Jelly. 5. Apricot C«aii\ a. \a.?*.'M«KK,. 

6. Cake i ta Cerise. 7. Raipberry Jcl\y \ \at>\c^?ft. ■&. ^'i** G^mw- 



J 



Jl 



r 



CAKES 

Cakes require great care in the baking, and the 
oven should be regfulated to the exact heat before 
putting in any biscuits or cakes ; currants should be 
well picked and rubbed, and peel cut into small 
pieces ; and it is essential when cakes are turned out 
of their tins they should be turned upside down on 
pastry racks. 

In beating eggs, the germ should be carefully 
taken away before beating. In the present day, when 
all kinds of cakes and fancy biscuits can be bought 
so cheaply, the art of cake-making is neglected, 
and I quite think it saves a lot of trouble, especially 
with the present race of cooks, who like to do as little 
as possible. I have given recipes for a few only, and 
the illustrations will give an idea of decorating them, 
as all cakes now are so highly ornamental. To ice 
cakes with glac^-icing, which, I think, is superior to 
the royal-icing, the sugar should be dissolved and 
care taken not to overheat it, and mixed with a little 
rose or orange flower water ; it can be flavoured with 
lemon, orange, maraschino, &c., and should be spread 
over the cake with a palette-knife. 

Any colouring can be added according to taste. 
For chocolate-icing, powdered chocolate should be 
mixed in. 



196 COOKERY A LA MODE 

CofFee-icing, flavour with coffee extract Royal- 
icing is made by putting two whites of eggs into a 
china basin, the juice of half a lemon, and six ounces 
of sifted icing sugar. Work well together with a 
wooden spoon for some time to get the proper con- 
sistency, and when, taking up a little on the spoon, 
a point is formed which retains its shape, it is ready 
to use. 

Marble-icing is made as above and by the aid of 
a comet of paper, or a tin cornet made for the purpose, 
small lines of red and green icing can be made and 
put across in different directions ; and with the tip 
of a feather distributing it ; this is called sometimes 
feathered-icing. Alexandra-icing is made with butter 
and icing sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter to three 
ounces of the sugar ; it must be beaten till creamy 
and smooth, when any flavouring or colouring may 
be added. Icing should be dried in a cool oven, but 
it must not be heated. 

To spin sugar, put a pound of loaf sugar with as 
much cold water as will saturate it, about half a pint, 
and let it dissolve ; then add a pinch of cream of tartar, 
and boil it to the crack, then give it an extra boil. 

Take two silver forks, tie them together, dip the 
ends of the prongs into the sugar ; with the right hand 
whisk the sugar to and fro quickly over a rolling-pin, 
and the higher it is thrown the better. It will fall into 
a number of threads. Many persons stand on a chair 
when they are spinning sugar. 

To boil to the crack. Boil it till when a little is 
put into cold water it hardens and snaps like glass. 
Squeeze in a little lemon-juice, let the sugar remain 



CAKES, ETC. 197 

one minute longer on the fire, set the pan in another 
of cold water, and it will be ready for use. 

But to spin sugar properly and to make designs 
in it, it is quite necessary to have a couple of lessons. 



Almond Rings 

Take one pound of the best flour, pass it through 
a sieve to prevent any lumps. Dissolve half a pound 
of butter in a little warm milk and stir in the flour 
till it becomes a very smooth paste. Roll it out to a 
quarter of an inch in thickness and cut it into rings 
with two round cutters, one, of course, larger than 
the other. 

Place them on a tin or tins in a moderate oven 
for a quarter of an hour. Make some white icing and 
put it on the cake-rings whilst they are hot. Make 
the icing with half a pound of ground almond-paste 
mixed with a table-spoonful of elder-flower water. 
Beat the whites of two eggs to a very stiff froth and 
add to the almond mixture, then mix in slowly a 
pound of the best icing sugar. 

When the cakes are iced, they can be sprinkled 
with very finely chopped pistachio-kernels and orna- 
mented in any fanciful way that the cook may like. 

Angels' Food 

Take the whites of eleven eggs, one and a half 
tumbler of castor sugar, sift four times, beat the eggs 



198 COOKERY A LA MODE ^^^| 

to a stiff froth, add the sugar very lightly until poured 
into the pan, which should be greased. Let them 
bake one hour ; turn out carefully ; let them cool, and 
then ice them over with either pink icing flavoured 
with noyau or brown icing flavoured with coffee. 

Bermuda Cake 

Beat four ounces of butter to a cream, beat the 
yolks and whites of two eggs separately for twenty 
minutes. Next add four ounces of sugar and the 
same of arrowroot, which has been rubbed through 
a sieve with the grated rind of a lemon. Mix ^1 
well together for half an hour. Line a cake-tin with 
grea.sed paper, pour the mixture in, and bake in a 
moderate oven. When cool, ice it over with pink icing 
flavoured with maraschino and ornament with glaciS 
cherries and leaves cut in angeUca. 

Brandy Snaps 

Melt two pounds of butter in a stewpan, then add 
three ounces of treacle, two of brown sugar, two 
ounces of flour, and a quarter of an ounce of ground 
ginger. Mix all thoroughly off the fire and then 
put one tea-spoonful of the mixture at intervals on a 
baking-tin. 

They will only take a few minutes to run into 
wafers and turn brown. Take out and let them 
remain for one minute, remove from the tin, and roll 
up the top part outside. Keep in a tin in a dry 
place. These are now fashionable for five-o'clock tea 
in the winter. 



CAKES, ETC. 199 

Cherry Cake 

Beat up four eggs, add one ounce of castor sugar 
and six ounces of fine sifted flour ; then melt t\jalf an 
ounce of butter and add it to the mixture (the butter 
must not be too hot or it will make the cake heavy) ; 
now add half a pound of preserved cherries cut in 
halves, and put in at the last a teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Bake about an hour and a quarter. When 
cold, turn it up and cover the bottom with almond 
paste two inches thick, and when that is smooth and 
settled, ice it over and ornament it with dried cherries 
and angelica cut into leaves. 

The icing should be flavoured with lemon or 
ratafia. (See Plate XXII.) 



Chocolate Cake. No. i 

Take half a pound of castor sugar and mix it 
with four ounces of grated chocolate and a table-spoon- 
ful of flour. Beat separately the whites and yolks of 
six eggs and beat the sugar and chocolate mixture 
into the whites ; add to the yolks the juice of one 
lemon, with the grated rind. Stir next the white and 
yolk mixture together. Bake in two square pans 
an inch and a half deep. 

When baked, spread some preserve on the top of 
one cake and place the other on the top of it and ice 
with white-icing flavoured with lemon, and ornament 
with sugar violets and silver balls. This cake is 
often cut into three-cornered pieces for afternoon tea. 




COOKERY A LA MODE 



Chocolate Cake. No. 2 

Take a cupful of sugar and two eggs, and beat 
them up together till very light ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter melted, then sift in two cupfuls of 
flour, one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, and add half 
a tea-spoonful of baking powder dissolved in a little 
milk. 

Bake in two layers. When baked, put the follow- 
ing cream between each layer : — 

Heat a large cup of milk, and when boiling stir in 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, one teacupful of fine 
sugar, and six table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate, and 
blend well together. Boil till stiff, and when cool 
add some essence of vanilla and spread the mixture 
between the layers. Place the layers one on the other 
and ice the top of the cake with the following icing : — 

Beat up the white of one egg stiffly with three* 
quarters of a cup of icing sugar and three table- 
spoonfuls of grated chocolate ; spread smoothly with a 
knife dipped in hot water. 

Coffee Cake 

Cream together one cupful of butter and two 
of sugar, then add the beaten yolks of five eggs ; 
then gradually add one cupful of strong coffee, then 
three and a half cupfuls of flour and two tea-spoonfuls 
of baking powder. This mixture should be quite 
stiff. Add one level tea-spoonful of salt, the same 
each of ground cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and a 



CAKES, ETC. 20 1 

little nutmeg. Then add one cupful of seedless 
sultanas and one of currants, plenty of thinly sliced 
citron, and one spoonful of brandy. Put in the oven 
and bake ; when cooked, ice the top with coffee-icing 
and with a rose pipe ornament the edges and middle 
with coffee cream-icing. 



Dinner Finger Bread 

Make some dough, cut it into long strips with 
a floured knife and then gradually roll out till quite 
thin ; sprinkle with a little rough dry salt before 
putting them into the oven, which should be a mode- 
rately cool one, and they should be baked for a long 
time till the biscuits are dry and crisp. 

Gateau N^gresse 

Take the weight of four eggs in castor sugar, the 
same quantity of butter and flour, and four penny 
sticks of chocolate. Mix all well together and beat 
four whites of eggs to snow ; place it in cake pastry 
pans or tins as in * Chocolate Cake,* page 199. 

Put chocolate cream between each row and cover 
the top with chocolate-icing. 



Nougat 

Take half a pound of sugar, put it in a basin with 
a little water. When the sugar becomes soft, add 
half a pound of sweet almonds peeled and cut into 



a02 COOKERY A LA MODE 

strips ; stir without ceasing till the sugar becomes'^ 
good brown colour. Grease the moulds and place ii 
the mixture, and put into the oven to dry. 



Orang:e Cake. No. i 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream with one 
pound of castor sugar ; add ten well-laeaten eggs, 
one pound of flour, and onepint of orange wine. Bake 
in prepared tins in thin sheets, remove the brown 
crusts with a sharp knife, and cut each sheet into 
equal parts ; spread them with a layer of orange 
marmalade and place a layer of sliced oranges on the 
top, then place the other half on the top and glaze 
with orange-icing, and when the icing is set place in a 
design on the top some of the preserved orange slices. 

To make the orange-icing, take the juice of two 
lemons and two oranges, and mix with icing sugar 
till thick enough to spread over the cake. 



Orai^e Cakes 

Beat three eggs and five ounces of castor sugar 
to a cream, add six ounces of Vienna flour into which 
has been put a teaspoonful of baking-powder and 
the grated rind of one orange. Beat all well together 
and bake in dariole-moulds in a quick oven for a 
quarter of an hour. When cold, ice with the following 
icing : — Squeeze the juice from a large juicy orange, 
and mix it smoothly with a pound of icing sugar. Pour 
this all over the cakes and place in the oven, with the 



CAKES, ETC. 203 

door open, just to harden. The centre of the cake, 
if made in a cake-tin, can be ornamented with slices 
of orange preserve in the middle, or if made in the 
smaller moulds a slice of the orange preserve can be 
cut into four pieces, and arranged with a sugar violet 
in the centre. 



Elysium Cakes, or Petits G&teaux k I'Elysde 

Take four ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, 
four ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of grated 
cocoa-nut, a quarter of the grated rind of a lemon, and 
two eggs. Cream the butter, beat in the sugar, then 
the eggs, well beaten ; next, the dried and sifted flour ; 
then cocoa-nut and lemon-peel. Have ready some 
little square moulds about an inch square, butter 
them and put in the mixture ; sprinkle the moulds 
thickly with very finely grated cocoa-nut before 
putting in the mixture ; bake them in a quickish oven. 
When cooked, decorate the tops with four balls of 
almond paste (see Plate XVIII.) and colour some red, 
some pink, some brown, some violet, and some pale 
green. Arrange them in three, and one on the top. 
Before placing these balls, the tops of the cake should 
be iced between the balls; some pistachio-nuts or 
strips of angelica cut into leaf shapes should be 
placed between the balls. Of course, the almond 
paste must be coloured before making into balls. 

Sometimes these balls are made of preserved 
cherries cut in half and covered over with coloured 
icings. (See Plate XVIII.) 



204 COOKERY k LA MODE ^^H 

Smyrna Cake 

Make some Genoese paste the size required, cut 
into three rounds, spread the bottom thinly with 
apricot pulp. Put over it a thick layer of cofFee- 
cream upon the apricot ; then place the middle 
round upon the bottom and mask with apricot 
and coffee-creams as before ; then place the top 
round on and mask the same, carrying the coffee- 
cream with the palette-knife all round the sides ; then 
have some desiccated cocoa-nut which has been 
slightly browned, and cover the sides with it upon 
which the cake is placed with the palette-knife, and 
then pipe with the coffee-cream, a small star border 
round the top, and a design in the centre. 

The Genoese paste is made thus r — Beat ten whites 
of eggs to a stiff snow, stir in eight ounces of powdered 
sugar, beat ten yolks of e^s for a minute, stir them 
in lightly, and then mix in six ounces of sifted flour 
only just enough to incorporate it, and at the same 
time four ounces of melted butter. Mix the whole 
together, then pour the mixture on to the prepared tins 
in a hoop, and bake. Coffee-cream, to make : — Beat 
half a pound of fresh butter to a cream with a quarter 
of a pound of icing sugar, add one yolk of an e^ 
and a table-spoonful of Distil coffee essence, and beat 
till it is a light smooth cream. 



INVALID COOKERY 

* Chief nourisher in life's feast ' 

Macbeth 



'.«' 



• » i 



INVALID COOKERY 

An invalid requires nourishing and light food, 
especially in convalescence, when the strength has 
to be kept up ; but it is often a difficult matter, as 
invalids are often capricious and faddy in their 
appetites, and take a dislike for what is recom- 
mended to them. Cookery for an invalid should be 
most nutritious, but neither rich nor heavy, for 
the digestion is always more or less deranged for a 
time. 

Everything should always be served daintily, 
neatly, and punctually, and a little must be served 
only at a time, and never a repetition of the same dish 
twice running. 



Arrowroot 

Moisten two tea-spoonfuls of arrowroot with two 
table-spoonfuls of cold milk ; when quite smooth, pour 
in half a pint of boiling milk, then put it in a saucepan 
and stir over the fire for three or four minutes. Add 
two or three tea-spoonfuls of castor sugar to sweeten 
it. Wine or brandy can be added to this. To make 
water arrowroot, use the same quantities as above, 
substituting water for milk. 



308 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Arrowroot Jelly 

Take half a pint of water into a saucepan with a 
table-spoon fill of brandy and castor sugar to taste; 
boil it up, and add gradually a dessert-spoonful of 
arrowroot which has been rubbed smooth in two table- 
spoonfuls of water. Boil for about three minutes. 



Beef Tea 

Take two pounds of beef without any fat, and cut 
it into small dice. Put it in a gourmet boiler with a 
quart of cold water and leave it to soak for several 
hours, pricking it now and then with a fork. Then 
place the gourmet boiler into a stewpan of water, 
which must be brought to the boil, then let it simmer 
for three hours. Strain and put by till cold, removing 
all particles of fat ; when required, add a tea-spoonful 
of Valentine's beef juice or a tea-spoonful of Armour's 
extract of meat, and heat it to boiling-point 



Brains au Gratin 

Take some calves' brains, boil and let them get 
cold, halve them and cut each half into thick slices, 
season with pepper, salt, oil, and chopped parsley. 
Put them on small skewers, roll them in melted 
butter, then in bread-crumbs, and grill them for 
twelve minutes. 



INVALID COOKERY 209 

Brown Bread Pudding 

Soak two table-spoonfuls of Hovis bread-crumbs 
in a gill of milk. Make a custard with half a pint of 
milk and the yolks of two eggs, sweeten to taste, and 
flavour with vanilla or lemon. Pour the custard 
whilst hot over the bread-crumbs. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth with some sugar and a 
little cream, stir lightly together, pour into a buttered 
pie-dish and bake for about twenty minutes. 



Chicken Panada 

Take the breast and wings of a boiled chicken, 
mix with an equal quantity of stale bread ; the 
water in which the chicken has been boiled should 
be added gradually. Boil for a few minutes, rub 
through the sieve, add salt and pepper and any 
flavouring liked. 



Chicken Sautd 

(Mary Hooper) 

Cut the skin of a chicken just over the pinion 
bone and down to the leg ; turn it back, leave it on 
the chicken, and cut off the wing and a slice of the 
breast. Put half an ounce of butter into a frying-pan 
with a slice of fat bacon, which fry till cooked, then 
put in the wing of the chicken, lightly peppered and 
salted. Cook slowly, turning every minute till the 
chicken is done, which will take about ten minutes. 



210 COOKERY A LA MODE 



1 



and if properly cooked will not be hard on the out- 
side. 

The rest of the fowl may be roasted or boiled as 
required. ■ 

Cream and Cura^oa 

A table-spoonful each of cream and cura^oa 
stirred together is an excellent restorative for sick 
persons suffering from exhaustion. 



Stewed Calfs Feet 

Stew a well-cleaned calfS foot in one pint of milk 
and one of water, with pepper and salt, and the grated 
peel of a lemon, for three or four hours. 



Currageen, or Irish Moss 

One pint of it boiled in a pint and a half of water 
will make a semi-transparent tasteless jelly ; it should 
be then sweetened and acidulated. This forms a 
most strengthening diet ; it can also be mixed with 
milk. 



Chicken Custard 

Beat a small chicken so as to break the bones, 
stew it in a pint and a half of cold water with a little 
salt for two hours. Strain, and add the yolks of six 



INVALID COOKERY 211 

eggs or four whole eggs. Heat this till it almost 
boils, then pour it into little moulds and let cool. 

Baked Custard Pudding 

Warm half a pint of milk, whisk two whole eggs 
together ; pour the milk to them, stirring all the while. 
Pour this custard into the dish, grate a little nutmeg 
over the top, and bake in a slow oven for half an hour. 
The tart-dish should be lined at the edges with a little 
puff paste. 

Egg Cream and Sago Broth 

Take one ounce of sago, wash it well and stew it 
in half a pint of water till it is quite soft, gradually 
evaporating it down to one-half. Beat up one egg 
with a gill of cream and add this to the sago gradually, 
stirring well ; then stir in gradually one pint of good 
boiling beef-tea. 

Egg and Sherry 

Beat up an egg till it froths, then add a lump 
of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of water. Mix 
thoroughly and pour in a wineglassful of sherry and 
serve at once. 

Fish Steamed 

Take a whiting that has been skinned and 
filleted, dry it Rub some butter over a soup-plate 

V 1 



212 



COOKEKY A LA MODE 



and put in the fillets, add a few drops of lemon-juice, 
cover with another plate and stand over a saucepan 
of boiling water and reverse the plates once whilst 
cooking, which will take about twenty minutes ; then 
dish, and when serving pour over the liquor from the 
soup-plate. Sprinkle a few grains of finely minced 
parsley over. 



Gloucester Jelly 

Put one ounce of rice, sago, and pearl barley, a 
little sugar, together with three pints of water till 
reduced to one pint. When done, strain it and dis- 
solve it, when co ld, in wine and milk or so up fo r an 
invalid. 



Invalid Pudding 

Take two-thirds of a cup of orange-juice, one- 
third of a cup of lemon-juice, one cup of water, the 
whites of three eggs, three table-spoonfuls of corn- 
flour, a pinch of salt and sugar to sweeten. Put the 
fruit juice and water on the fire, sweeten to taste, and, 
when boiling, stir in the corn-flour dissolved in a little 
cold water. Boil slowly ten minutes and then add 
the whites of the eggs stiflly beaten. Mix well, take 
ofif the fire, and turn into a wetted mould. Serve 
cold with a sauce made of the egg-yolks, one pint 
of milk, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and flavouring 
according to taste. 



INVALID COOKERY 213 

Invalid Sandwiches 

Take a quarter of a pound of raw fillet of beef, 
scrape it into fine threads, and place it on small deli- 
cately cut sandwiches. 

Pepper and salt to taste. These are most nou- 
rishing and strengthening, but it is well not to let the 
patient know the contents, as many would refuse to 
eat them if they knew they were raw. 



Meat Jelly 

Take one pound each of beef and veal, cut it up 
finely, and place it in a jar well covered down. 
Place the jar in a saucepan half full of water and let 
it stand for three hours on the fire. Then press the 
meat through a sieve and add to it half a pound of 
isinglass dissolved in a gill of water. When cold, 
remove all fat. 



Mutton Broth 

Take the lean part of a neck of mutton, about 
one pound ; remove all fat and cut it up into small 
pieces ; place this in a pint of cold water. Place it 
on the fire, and as the scum arises skim it carefully ; 
then let the broth boil for about two hours ; skim, and 
flavour. A tea-spoonful of pearl barley should be 
added when the broth begins to boil. 



314. COOKERY A LA MODE ^^H 

Mutton Broth J^^M 

(Anothei Wny) ^^^* 

Cut up two pounds of neck of mutton, remove all 
fat, put it into a saucepan with a quart of cold water 
and cover closely. Then boil till the meat falls to 
pieces. Skim and strain, add a table-spoonful of 
pearl barley which has been soaked in warm water 
sufficient to moisten it ; let it then simmer for half an 
hour, constantly stirring. Then add salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix in four table-spoonfuls of milk and a 
tea-spoonful of finely chopped parsley ; let it simmer 
for ten minutes. 

Mutton Chop in Beef-Tea 

Take a good loin chop, remove all fat and cut it 
into small pieces ; pound it in a mortar, then rub it 
through a wire sieve ; mix it with a cup of beef-tea 
and make it hot in a small saucepan, but it must not 
boil. 

Nourishing Milk Bererase 

< Put han* a pint of milk into a milk saucepan and 
heat it gently ; then draw the pan on one side and 
add a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of castor 
sugar, the beaten yolk of a new-laid egg and three 
table-spoonfuls of brandy or rum. Stir constantly 
by the side of the fire till the mixture is thoroughly 
hot without boiling, when it ought to be a trifle 



INVALID COOKERY 21 5 

thicker than ordinary milk and perfectly smooth. 
Then serve at once with a dry biscuit. 



Oranges for Invalids 

Take the strained juice of three oranges and one 
lemon and boil it up with sugar to taste and a pinch 
of isinglass. Cut up some oranges into neat pieces, 
removing all pips and pulp, and put them into a 
basin, and then pour over them the nearly cold 
syrup. 

Port-wine Jelly 

Take half a pint of port wine, one ounce of isin- 
glass, and an ounce and a half of brown sugar-candy ; 
stir over a gentle fire for ten minutes, then steam 
through muslin and pour into a wetted mould and set 
aside to cool. A piece the size of an e^ may be 
taken two or three times a day. 



To Cook a Small Sole 

Place a small sole in a fireproof dish ; having well 
buttered it, sprinkle lightly with salt, squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over, place a piece of buttered paper 
over it, and put in the oven for ten minutes. This is 
a most appetising dish for an invalid. 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



Fillets of Sole 



Take two fillets of sole, spread them on one side 
with a layer of bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and 
salt to taste, with a little beaten egg. 

Roll itp the fillets and tie each round with a tape, 
boil them tender in a little acidulated water. When 
cooked, drain them and sauce them with a little white 
sauce in which an egg has been added. Put the 
fillets into the sauce till quite hot, but it must not 
boil. 

Sweetbread a la Sant£ 

Take a nice heart sweetbread, blanch and put it 
into a stewpan with a small slice of ham, an onion 
stuck with two cloves, and two table-spoonfuls of 
rice. Cover with water and cook for an hour slowly 
till rice is cooked. Then remove them from the fire 
and reduce the broth to half a pint. 

Mince the sweetbread and return the broth ; add 
four table-spoonfuls of cream or milk, pepper and 
salt to taste. When cool, stir in four yolks and two 
whites of e^s well beaten, then steam in a mould for 
half an hour with a buttered paper ; place the mould 
in a stewpan containing about two inches of water 
Let it stand a few minutes before dishing it up. 



Tripe & la-Normande 

Put into a stewpan two pounds of tripe cut into 
little square pieces, also a quarter of a pound|of bacon ; 



INVALID COOKERY 217 

cut up a carrot, two onions, two shalots, and a bunch 
of parsley all cut fine ; add two bay-leaves, four cloves, 
and twenty black peppercorns and four ounces of 
butter. Cover all with equal parts of good white 
stock and chablis, and stew slowly for five hours ; 
the tripe must be perfectly tender. When it is 
cooked, remove the tripe and strain the sauce ; thicken 
it slightly with a little white roux ; pour it over the 
tripe. Warm up and serve. 



ll 



i 



i' . 

) ■ . 

!■■ ■■ 

i. ' 



1,4 

I. 

I ' 



•J 



' .1 

; i 
•t 



■ : •. 1 



I ■' 



f . 






MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 

AND 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS 



< Nothing nobler can be found in woman than to study household good ' 

Milton, 



p 



■ ! 



H 



• i 

. i 

■ J 

n 




1. Red and White Currants 

2. Brandy Cherries Iced. 



3, Melon oi\ Iot iktA^ 



\- 



MISCELLANEOUS 

A GOOD cook studies her fire and thoroughly 
learns the peculiarities of her range, its draughts and 
dampers, learns its capabilities and the best way to 
maintain sufficient heat with the least consumption 
of fuel. A good cook never fries a rump steak nor 
boils a stew, and consults the tastes and tries in every 
way to suit the palates of her employers, even though 
her ideas and theirs do not agree. Everything 
should be measured with carefulness and directions 
followed implicitly, and all preparations for meals 
should be in readiness to begin giving to each dish 
its full time and right amount of heat, never letting 
the stove-top get red hot, nor putting the stewpans 
on the coals, and paying attention to what she is 
doing, and then the food would never bum, never be 
underdone, but always just right 

A good cook will never forget she is cooking. 



Financi^re Essence 

Take a slice of ham and about a couple of pounds 
of trimmings from poultry or game and stew them 
in a little stock. Bring to the boil, then simmer them 
gently for half an hour. Then add an onion stuck 



222 COOKERY A LA MODE 

with three cloves, one sprig each of parsley and 
thyme, a bay-leaf, a small carrot cut in pieces, a stick 
of celery, or, if not in season, a little celery-seed ; 
pepper and salt to taste ; add three pints of boiling 
weak stock. Bring to the bail, and then let it 
sinimer very gently without the lid for a couple of 
hours and strain in a few drops of lemon-juice and a 
tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; tammy, and it will 
be ready for use. 

Prying Batter 

Beat up one table-spoonful of brandy, one of olive- 
oil, and a little cold water with the yolk of an e^ 
and a pinch of salt Work in then enough flour to 
make, with the addition of more water, as much batter 
as may be required ; it should be of the consistency 
of thick cream. Just before using, whisk into the 
batter the whites of two eggs and mix them lightly 
and thoroughly. 

This is for a rich batter ; for ordinary purposes 
it can be made with milk and no brandy. 

A simple batter can be made with four ounces 
of flour, with as much milk added as will make a 
thick batter ; stir in the white and yolk of one egg 
beaten to a froth, and leave it in a warm place for ein 
hour. 

Panada 

Take some crumb of bread with as much boiling 
stock poured over it as it will absorb. 



MISCELLANEOUS 223 

When moist, beat it with a fork ; add whatever 
seasoning is required ; put the bread into a saucepan 
with an ounce of butter, and stir over a gentle fire 
till it is dry and smooth and leaves the saucepan 
with the spoon. 

When cold, it is ready. 



Potato Croustades 

Boil the potatoes, rub them through a sieve, mix 
with a little milk and an ounce of butter, beat up 
well over the fire, and then place in a border-mould 
for a little while ; then turn out and brush over with 
white of egg and place in the oven for a few minutes^ 



Royal-Icing 

Take twelve ounces of finely sifted icing sugar, 
whisk the whites of four eggs to a strong froth and 
stir in the sugar by degrees, beating it well the whole 
time. 

Mix in the strained juice of half a lemon and lay 
it on while the cakes or pastry are still warm, 
smoothing it over equally with a palette-knife, and 
then let it harden in a very cool oven. 

For pink-icing add a little cochineal, for coffee 
use a little Distil coffee essence, liquid chocolate for 
chocolate, and saffron essence for yellow-icing. 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



Socles 



Wash one pound of the best rice and put it in a 
stewpan with half a gallon of water and a little 
salt ; boil over a very slow fire. When cooked, pound 
it in a mortar and mould it to the required shape. 
For hot dishes the socle should be egged over and put 
in the oven to colour it. For cold dishes spread the 
rice over with Montpellier butter, tomato, or anchovy, 
&c., according to what the dish is composed of. 



Syrup 

Put half a pint of water in a saucepan over the 
fire ; when it boils, drop in gradually a pound of sugar ; 
when the sugar is dissolved let it boil up hard. 
Remove the .scum as it rises. When it is clear it will 
be ready. To flavour, use either liqueurs or essences. 



Mayonnaise Jelly 

Take some pale aspic jelly and put it in a stew- 
pan with a gill of salad-oil, a dessert-spoonful of white 
vinegar, and a pinch of pepper and salt. Whip it 
sharply for ten minutes and then put it on ice. 

Then melt the jelly and whip it over ice till it sets 
again. 



PLATE XXIV, 




A, Pate de Foie Ciras ; B, Suckm^-Y^\^ *, C, C?vWs \\t^v\. 



i-'i 



II? 






.■iP 



MISCELLANEOUS 225 



CARES THAT INFEST THE DAY 

Kitchen Hints 

Instead of putting food into the oven to keep hot 
or to warm up, cover it closely with a tin and set it 
over a basin of boiling water ; this prevents it from 
drying. 

To Keep Egg Yolk 

Put the unbroken yolk into a cup and cover with 
water and it will keep fresh for three days ; the water 
must be poured off before using. 



Scorching Food 

When food scorches in cooking it should be 
immediately uncovered and set into a pan of cold 
water for a few minutes, then carefully removed from 
the pan without stirring the food which has been 
scorched ; and it will not taste of the scorch. 



Tasting 

When a cook's taste has become vitiated by tast- 
ing many dishes a small drink of milk will restore 
the delicacy of the palate. 



12 26 COOKERY A, LA MODE ^H 

To Prevent Odours from Cooking 1 

/ A lump of bread the size of a tennis-ball tied up \| 
/ in a linen bag and placed in the saucepan where 
l greens are boiling will absorb the unpleasant gases 
\, which arise. 
K Cedar shavings thrown into the fire will also 

H ameliorate unpleasant cooking smells of water or 

■ grease spilt on the stove. _. 

L 



To Prevent Pies Boiling Over in the Oven 

During the process of baking place the pie-dish 
a flat dish or pan containing a little water. 



To Keep a Kitchen Range Free from Grease » 

Put a piece of paper over the frying-pan and it 
will absorb all the grease. A corner of the paper 
can easily be lifted to see if the articles are done. 



Kettles to Keep Clean 

To keep kettles free from incrustation, caused by 
hard water, put an octopus into the kettle, which can 
be bought at any ironmonger's, or a flat oyster-shell, 
which will attract all particles of chalk. 

To Wash Dishes Properly 

First scrape off any food. Then let each piece be 
washed by itself in hot and clean water. Rinse 



MISCELLANEOUS 227 

thoroughly with cold water, and be sure to use dry 
cloths to finish with, and see there are no particles of 
soap in the comers of cups. Pudding-dishes or plates 
on which food has been baked should be soaked in a 
little salt and water before being washed. 



Glass to Wash 

When washing glasses which have been used for 
milk, they should always be rinsed first in cold water 
and then washed in hot, which will make it much 
easier to produce the proper point of brightness. 



Laying and Waiting at Table 

In laying a table, everything must be placed 
perfectly straight and not too near the edge of the 
table. The silver cutlery and glass must be very bright, 
and a clean selvyt cloth or leather should be kept in 
a sideboard drawer to rub anything that looks the 
least dull. The sideboard should be carefully arranged 
with silver and glass, &c., so as to avoid delays or 
absence from the room whenever an extra spoon or 
fork is required. 

Good waiting consists in extreme quiet, no rattle 
of plates nor dropping of silver, clashing of glasses, 
&c The plates should be removed as they are 
done with. Everything except wine is handed on 
the left-hand side ; the dish must be firmly held, 
slightly tilting towards the person to whom it is 
offered. The lady on the right of the host should be 



I 



228 COOKERY A LA MODE 

served first. If there are several at dinner there shouldl 
be two servants, who should hand the entries simul- 
taneously on either side of the table, beginning at ] 
opposite ends. The waiters should be seen and not J 
heard, but yet they must have eyes for everything and I 
see what each person requires. Where there is a I 
butler, he has the charge of the wine, but, if not, the I 
principal of the two servants undertakes it. Cham- 
pagne must be opened quickly and noiselessly, and 1 
great care must be taken in pouring out wine not b 
over-fill or spill any of it. 

The cover that is laid for each person is — On thS-M 
right hand, two large dinner-knives and a silver fish- J 
knife, and a table-spoon for soup ; on the left hand,! 
two large forks and a fish-fork ; should there be hors-a 
d'ceuvres, a dessert-spoon and fork is placed in frontof'l 
the plate. The wineglasses, if for a dinner party— 
A champagne- glass, sherry-glass, and a hock- or claret- 
glass, placed to each guest. Salt-cellars and little 
pepper-castors are generally placed in front of every 
other guest. Serviettes should be nicely folded, but not 
elaborately. The mitre or escutcheon shapes are 
mostly used, though it is much the fashion now to place 
the serviette on the table quite plainly folded. 

When the guests have all been served with soup, 
sherry is handed. 

Hock is served with the fish, and the champagne 
is handed round directly after the first entree has been 
served. 

In changing the plates, fresh cutlery and silver 
must be put round to each guest, when required ; for 
all sweet dishes, a small dessert-fork and spoon is 



MISCELLANEOUS 229 

placed on the plate before it is put before the guest ; 
and for savouries a fork only, generally. But it 
depends on the savoury, for sometimes a small knife is 
required as well. When an entr6e consists of chicken, 
creams, patties, &c., it is eaten with a fork only. When 
salad is served, small salad-plates are handed round 
with the bowl and placed at the left-hand side of 
the dinner-plate. It is eaten with a knife and fork. 
Cucumber is handed round with the fish ; it is taken 
on to the dinner-plate and eaten with a fork. The 
sweets are eaten with a fork only, except in the case of 
tarts, when a spoon should be used as well. Pastry is 
also only eaten with a fork. After the savouries the 
table is cleared of everything that appertains to dinner, 
and the cover is brushed with a silver brush and scoop 
and dessert-plates are placed on the table before each 
guest. Ices are handed round immediately before 
dessert. On each dessert-plate should be placed a 
d'oyley, and on this the ice-plate, and on this again 
the finger-bowl, and also on the plate are placed the 
ice-spoon and the dessert knife and fork. Wineglasses 
— port, sherry, and claret — are placed round to each 
guest. After the ices., liqueurs are handed round, 
poured out in liqueur-glasses placed on a silver salver. 
After the ices are finished, the ice-plates are removed 
and the dessert is handed round, and then the 
wine. 

Coffee is served after dinner in the drawing-room 
to the ladies and to the gentlemen in the dining-room. 
Black coffee is usually taken, but cream, sugar, and 
milk should be handed with it. Cigars, cigarettes, and 
match-stands are generally handed to the gentlemen 



2^0 COOKERY A LA MODE ^^M 

with their coffee, as well as little glasses of champagne 
fin or other liqueurs. 

The decoration of the dinner-table itself must be 
left to the taste of the mistress of the house, which 
depends on what plate and china she has. Dessert 
sweets are generally arranged in little silver dishes, 
and the fruit at dinner parties is seldom placed on the 
table, as the table is generally covered with pretty 
silver ornaments, china, and flowers. There is no 
room for the fruit. 

To Clean Plate 

(A Silveismith's Recipe for Cleaning Plate! 

Take a little rouge and mix with spirits of wine, 
put it in a saucer. Place some on the silver with a 
pointed stick and rub briskly whilst it is wet with a 
clean piece of rag, and polish it finally with a leather. 

The success of cleaning plate well depends on 
the way the powder is used, which should be very 
sparingly. Plate should be washed In the hottest of 
boiling water, with a little soda and fine whitening 
made into a paste with a little methylated spirit, and 
then put on with a soft flannel ; rinsing in cold water, 
drying, and polishing with a buff and afterwards with 
a selvyt cloth or wash-leather, is about the best way. 
Of course, rubbing it on the palm of the hand and with 
the finger and thumb till the silver feels quite hot 
polishes the plate best, but if the servant has a damp 
hand it is impossible to polish it, and it becomes dull 
and smudgy. Where the hand is damp, it is a good 
plan to take atv old knife-board with the emery-cloth 



MISCELLANEOUS 23 1 

worn off, cover it with flannel and then with a piece 
of chamois-leather, and rub it hard on this ; but, of 
course, the inside bowls of spoons cannot be rubbed 
in this way. 

I always have all my silver boiled in the copper 
three times a year with a small handful of hartshorn 
powder in it. It is quite a necessity for entrte dishes 
and covers, for they will get grease worked into 
them if the servants are at all parsimonious in their 
washing. 

I always use Spink's plate powder and his buff 
for polishing. I prefer the buff to the brush except 
when the silver is much chased, when the brush is a 
necessity. When putting away silver which is only 
occasionally used, pieces of camphor gum should be 
placed among it to prevent its tarnishing. 



TERMS USED IN COOKrNG AND IN 
THE KITCHEN 

Abaiis« : Rolling in paste. 

AUemimde % Reduced while sauce thickened with creum ond toDis of 

egg and seasoned with leioon-juice. 
An^liea : A preserve used for decoraring. 
Aspie: A savputy jelly. 
Assieilt \ Smnll entr^s and hors-d'ceuvres, not more than a plate will 

hold. 
AsHittes tvlanlts : Dishes handed and not put on the table. 
Altclll! -. Small silver skewers used in garnishing. 
All bifu : Fish dressed in such a. minner as to have a hluLsh appear- 

Au grui: Dressed with meat gravy. 

AiijMS : In a natural juice or gravy. 

Ah Botiitrl: Plain simple cooking. 

Baira : A kind of light sweet coke. 

Buin-iiiarit : A metal pan which has a looie bottom to hold water, 

into which small saucepans can be put for keeping wann, 
Barde: A thin slice of ^t bacon placed over steaks, fowls, &c., 

instead of larding. 
BatterU de adsine: A complete set of necessary apparatus for all 

culinary purposes. 
Bavareise : A kind of cream and costard. 
Bichamil : A rich white sauce made with cream. 
Beigttct : A pancake or fritter. 
Bisque : A soup made with shell fish. 
Slatii: : White broth. 
Blanch -. To parboil, to scald vegetables, &c. , in order to remove 

skins, &c., and to whiten poultry. 
Bianquettt \ A kind of fricassee made with white sauce and thickened 

with yolk of egg. 
Bligtur : To fritter anything in buttered egg and fry. 
Bone : To remove all bones from poultry and meat. 
Bouditt : A rich mixture of different meats minced. 
BoiiilK : Beef much boiled. 
Pmiillon -. A thin soup or broth. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 233 

Bouquet : Simply parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf tied together. 
Bouquet garni : The same with the addition of cloves. 
Bourguignote : A ragoiit of truffles. 
Braise'. Meat cooked with bacon in a closely covered stewpan, to 

prevent evaporation. 
Braisikre : A saucepan with ledges to the lid, so as to put fire on the 

top. 
Brider : To truss fowls with a needle and thread. 
Brioche : A kind of light spongy cake. 
Brochettes : Small skewers. 

Buisson : A cluster or bush of anything piled on a dish. 
Callipash : The glutinous flesh of the turtle found on the upper 

shell. 
Callipee : The same found on the under shell. 

Cannelons : Small rolls of an)rthing filled with meat, fruit, or minces. 
Capilotade : A hash of poultry. 
Caramel', Burnt sugar. 

Casserole : A crust of rice, which, having been moulded to the re- 
quired shape, is filled with mince, fricassee, &c. 
Charlotte : Thin slices of bread steeped in clarified butter and placed 

in a plain mould with fruit or cream. 
Chartreuse : An ornamental entree composed chiefly of quenelle 

forcemeat and arranged in a plain mould. 
Chapelure : Bread-crumbing. 
Chasse : Liqueurs handed with cafi^ noir. 
Chemiser : To line a mould. 
Civet : A dark thick stew. 
Compdte : Stewed fruits served with syrup. 
Confitures : Preserves, sweets, jams, &c. 
Consommi : Strong clear gravy or broth. 
Contisix Small scallops of truffles, tongue, &c., inlaid as ornaments 

by incision in fillets of any kind. 
Coulis : A rich brown gravy. 

Couronney en : To dish up entries in the form of a crown. 
Croquantes : A bright mixture of fruit and boiled sugar. 
Croquettes : Minces of meat, fish, or fowl made into various shapes, 

rolled in egg and bread-crumbs and fried crisp. 
Croustades : Fried shapes of bread upon which various entr^ are 

served. 
Croutons : Fried sippets of bread used for garnish. 
Cuisson : The liquor in which meats have been boiled. 
Dariole : A sweet tart baked in a mould. 
Daube^ en : Meat, fowl, or game stewed in sauce. 
DauMirt : An oval stewpan. 



234 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Disesstr : To bone poultry, ti^me, Rsh. &c. 
DorvTt: Volks of q^ well bealen for liecorilion. 
Echaudtr : To dip in very hot water. 

Binandtf -. To skin almonds. 

Enlrie: Dishe.'i handed round after the fish, comprising cutlets, 

satmia, chartreuses, and all made dishes, &c, 
EntrtHitls : Second-course dishes, comprising dressed vegetables, 

savouries, and sweets of all kinds. 
Escalopes : Collops, small thin round pieces of meat, poultry, or fish. 
Espagnole : Brown sauce, very rich. 
Etamini : A tammy. 
Etenffer : To stew in a closed saucepan. 

Fagat : A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a bay-leaf. 
Fiart reaimr \ To somi.fiy. 
Fiauhimettt! % Varieties of small pastry n 
Farce : Forcemeat stuffing. 
Fareie: Staffed. 
FeiiUlctagt : Rough paste. 
Firumiiln : A highly Havoured dish. 
Flaif : A French custard. 
FlamStr : To singe fowls or game. 
Flam: Varieties of French cheese-caltes. 
Florentines: Light pastry iced over, 

Fojwer: To put slices of ham or bacon at the bottom of the saucepan. 
Fondut -. A cheese dish of the souffle order. 
Fricandeau : A dish of lamb or veal cookery, &c. , without bone, larded 

and glazed with a concentration of its own liquor. 
Fricassh % Chickens, &c. , cut in pieces and cooked in rich white sauce 

with mushrooms and other accessories. 
Friture : Butter for fiying. 
Fritter : Anything made in batter and fried. 

Galttte : A broad thin cake, a kind of muffin. 

CSteau : A cake, 

Giaiffris : Light Spongy biscuits. 

Glacl: Anything iced. 

Claw : Stock boiled down to jelly. 

GodHieau : A variety of forcemeats. 

Gras: Made with meat. 

Gralin -. A forcemeat made with meat and thin pan^ 

Gratiner: To grill. 

Haricot : A stew made with mixed vegetables and meat. 
Udteht : A small sU")m aVLtwer, sometimes spelt attelSt 
I/ors-tfauvres : Ibese axe a^^eSs^n., r« ■ifttfte. \a*e m^petite, uul 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 235 

eaten before soup, and consist of sardines, oysters, and anchovies, 

caviare, foreign dried sausages, &c. 
Jardinitre : Vegetables stewed in their own sauce. 
Lardoon : The strips of bacon used for larding. 
Lard : To pierce the meat with bacon. 
Liaison : A mixture of cream and egg, used to thicken with. 
Lit : Thin slices in layers with seasoning between. 
LtUing : A paste made of flour and water and used to fasten on the 

lids to pie-pans when preserving game in order to prevent evapora- 
tion. 
Macidoine : A mixture of vegetables with the addition of some kind of 

sauce. 
Macidoine of fruit : A mixture of fruits in syrup. 
Macirer : To soak meat, &c., in cold liquid to extract their juices. 
Madeleine : A kind of queen cake ornamented with preserve and 

sugar, &c. 
Maigre : Without meat. 

Marinade : To steep fish or meat in certain juices or liquor. 
Mask : To cover meat over with forcemeat, &c. 
Matelote : A rich fish stew made with wine. 
Mayonnaise : Salad dressing. 
Maxarine : An ornamental entr^. 
Menu : Bill of fare. 

Miringues : Light pastry made with whites of egg and sugar. 
Mijoter : To cook slowly on a very little fire. 
Mirlitons : Varieties of French cheese-cakes. 
Miroton : Slices of meat, larger than coUops, stewed in rich sauce and 

dished up in a round. 
Mouiller : To add broth or water during cooking. 
Nougat : A mixture of almond and burnt sugar and lemon-juice. 
Nouilles : Strips of paste made of eggs and flour. 
Paillasse : A grill made over cinders. 

Panada : A mixture of bread, milk, &c., used in making forcemeats. 
Paner : To egg and bread-crumb. 
Papillotes : Greased paper fastened over fish and cutlets. 
Parer : To trim. 
Pdti : A small pie. 

Paupiettes : Slices of meat rolled, sometimes called Polpetti. 
Pitce de resistance : The principal joint of the dinner. 
Piice montie : A dish very highly elaborated and dressed high. 
Pilau : A dish of meat or poultry with rice. 
Piping : Sugar decorations used in ornamenting cakes, pastry, &c. 



I 



236 COOKERY A LA MODE ^^H 

Pi^ui: Leriied. ' 

Pltifhi: Lea^-es of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, &£,, cn( very 

PofUe : Slock used instead of walGi far boiling. 

Pe/agt ; Soup. 

Prinianitrs : Early spring v^etables. 

ProfiliroUs : Light pastry with cream inside, 

Puils : The hollows in the ceolie of dishes. 

Purh \ Meat and vegetables reduced to a pulp and then mixed with 

other liquids to the consistency of thick soup. 
Qumtllti : Delicate forcemeat formed into balls and poached. 
KageSt; Quenelles, mushrooms, trufRes, S:c., mixed in a rich sauce. 
Pelevi : The remove dishes. 
Rcmmiladt : Salad dressing. 

Kissolis : Pastry made of light pulT paste filled with minces and fried. 
Rojix : A mixture of butter and ftour used for thickening soups sDd 

sauccg ; there are two kinds, while and brown. 
Salmi : A highly finished hash of game or wild fowl wilh a rich sauce. 
Salfiieon : A mixture of different linely- chopped meats. 
Sasscr : To work a sauce with a spoan. . 

Saiict ptquOKU : A sharp sauce, vin^ai or lemon predominBtiB|^.^^^J 
Seuter : To cook in b saucepan with sauce, constantly shaking iCil^BI 
Sen-iellc, l\ la : Served v.pici a Inhle-niipkin. 
Sifftls : Small pieces of bread cut into different shapes, fried and used 

for garnish. 
Souffii: A light pudding. 
Stock : The broth of which soups are made. 
Tamil, tammy ; A strainer or line sieve, for straining broth, sauces, 

creams, &c., through. 
Timbah : A sort of pie made in a mould. 
Torncdos : Very small fillets of beef cut thicker one end than the 

Taurte : (Tart) fruit pie baked in a shallow dish. 

Tourtur : To stir a sauce. 

Trifii : A sweet dish made of sponge cake, macaroons, jam, wines, 

and liqueurs. 
TrmiailUr: To reduce gravy. 
Trausser 1 To truss. 
Turban : See Mazarine. 

Vaaner : Lifting a sauce up and down with a spoon. 
Vtleuli: A very rich white sauce. 
Vol-au-Venl: Puff-paste cases of ragoflts, &c. 
Zest ; Thinly paied md o( lemon or orange for flavouring. 



INDEX 



Almond Kings, 197 

Anchovy Trifles, 177 

Angel's Food, 197 

Apricot Cream k la Princesse, 146 

— Solid, 146 
Arrowroot, 207 

— Jelly, 208 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, Parmi- 

giana, no 
Asparagus Patties, x 10 
Aspics of Wild Duck, 89 



Ballettes k la Billard, 147 

— ^ la Buller, 57 

— ^ la Joujou, 147 
Banana Blancmange, 147 
Barberry Cream, 148 
Baskets k la Savarin, 178 
Batter, to Make, 222 

Beef Fillets with Mushrooms, 58 

— Pressed, a la Cornwall, 55 

— Tea, 208 
Beefeteak Pudding, 56 
Blanc Mange of &nana, 147 
Bordure k la Beaconsfleld, 144 
Boudin k la Kaiser, 56 
Boules a la Durban, 19 
Brains au Gratin, 208 

— Sheep's, Roasted, 77 
Brandy Cherries in Masquerade, 

149 
Brandy Snaps, 198 
Brioches k la Devon, 178 



Cabbages, Stuffed, 112 

Caisse de Gibier Prince de Galles, 

94 



Cakes, Hints for Making, 195 

— Cherry, 199 

— Chocolate, 199, 200 

— Coffee, 200 

— Elysium, 203 

— Orange, 202 

— Smyrna, 204 
Calf's Brains, 57 
k I'Epicure, 58 

— Feet k Pltalia, 58 
Stewed, 210 

— Fritters, 58 
Canap^ k la Brighton, 20 
Cannelons, Coffee, 151 
Carrot and Turnip Mould, 1 1 
Cauliflower a la Biarritz, 115 
Champignons en Surprise, 148 
Chartreuse k I'Alexandra, 59 

— a PEchec, 59 

— d'Homard a la Randolph, 60 

— of Lobster k la Prince Edward, 

91 

— d'Orange, 163 

— kla Reine, 157 
Chaudfroid k la Homburg, 61 

— Grouse k la Pekin, 94 
Chicken Custard, 210 

— k la Chancelliere, loi 

— ^ la Como, 91 

— ^ la Czar, 93 

— Devilled k la Dante, 62 

— Medallions k la Audrey, 97 

— Mousse k la St. Andrew, 4^ 

— Panada, 209 

— Quenelles k la Merveille, 75 

— Saut6, 209 

— en Tomb^u, 92 
Cigarettes k la Royale, 93 
C(x:kscombs, 61 



^9 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



Cockscombs en Trufles, 76 

— Rissoles, 76 

CodGih k la Modeine, ait 
Cuflec Csnnclons, 151 
Compete of Fruits Gerevoise, 153 
Coquemboiiehe d'Otange*, 153 
Corbeiles k la Fanlaiaie, ija 

— Fanlasliques, 157 

— ^ la Noug&t, 1 54 

— khk Nimrod, 152 

— ila Peg Woffingtoii, 155 

— ilaTiflby, 156 
Coiaacofnas^ Is S^vigai!, 155 
Crab Rissoles, 21 

- — i la Transvaal, 21 

— i la Tweolielh Ccnluiy, zi 
Crawlisb k h. Paiiaiennc, 6j 
Cream, Apricot, 1416 

— Barbctiy, 148 

— and CuiBfoa, 3IQ 

— Epine Vinelte, 148 

— of Hare k la Gil Bias. 95 

— of Lapin ' loo up,' 96 

— Neapolitan, ids 

— Fiitsche, 16S 

— i la Porte Veine, 85 

— of Veal au General, gj 

— rjf Venison ii la Danoise, 104 
Creme k la Coralie, 156 
Crele de Coq aui TmlTts, 76 
Croqueltes au Rhodes, 61 
Croiislodes, Potato, 323 
Crofltes i la Dunkeid, 179 
Culinary Terms, 233 il uq. 

Curty, Prawn, Iced, 75 

— en Surprise, 64 
Custard, Baked, 211 

— Chicken, 210 
Cutlets a la Fridello, 62 

— 4 la General, 67 

— Rouge ct Noit, 67 

— a la Siegfried, 71 
^ i la Tintata, 72 

— Lamb, Financiire, 68 

— Mutton k la Pompadour, 71 

— Pork i la Gourmet, 74 

— — a la Rot, 74 

— Veal i i'Andatouse, 82 

i la Clothilde, Sa 

it la Dutma Anna, S3 



Uariolks a la Como, 
Dishes, to Wash, 226 
Uucks i U Rouennaise, 



89 



EcKBvissES £1 la Parisienno, 63 
E^ Baskets lUx Huitres, 22 

— Cream and Sago Broth, 211 

— and Sherry, 21 1 

~ Yolk, to Keep, 225 
Eggs Besciamella, lEi 

— poached in Puff Paste. 1S6 

— en Surprise, 157 

Entries and their Coo1uq|^ 47 a 

stq. 
Entremets and their Preparation, 

"45 
Exeter Pancakes, 158 

Finnan Haddock I>atties, 36 
Fish Cookery, 1 el seq. 

— Balls Bumire, 181 

— — 4 la Nouveauti!, t I 

— Steamed ,211 

— TirnVstleof, 40 
Foie Gras Fritters, 63 

Medalhons a la Rosieic, 

rSo 
Food Scotching, to Remedy, aaj 
Forcemeats, 53, 54 
Kromage k la Swede, [82 



Genoese Paste, 

Glass, to Wash, 127 

Grouse Chaudfroid k la Pekin, 94 

EIam and Chicken Moulds k la 

Floientine, 66 
Hare Cream k la Gil Bias, 95 
— Jugged en Surijrisc, iGo 
Horsd'a 



U stq. 



ICKD Prawn Curry, 75 

— Souffle, 159 

— Tomato Soui9<;, 191 



INDEX 



239 



Icing, Rojral, 223 

Inv^id Cookery, Notes on, 207 

Irish Moss, 210 



Jambonneaux de Poulet k la 

Florentine, 60 
Jelly, California, 150 

— Frontignac, 158 

— Gloucester, 212 

— Harlequin, 160 

— Macedon, 161 

— Mascarade in, 159 

— Mayonnaise, 224 

— Meat, 213 

— Mulberry, 162 

— Port- wine, 215 

— Prawn, 30 

— Printemps, 160 

— Raspberry k la Dieppe, 169 

— Rhubarb and Banana, 169 

— Tomato, 191 

— Twentieth Century, 150 
Jerusalem Artichokes, Parmi- 

giana, no 



Kari en Surprise, 64 
Kettles, to Keep Clean, 226 
Kidneys k la Apicius, 64 
— . ^ la Belle Vue, 65 
-^i la Curio, 170 

— Fritters, 65 

— Stewed with Mushrooms, 65 
Kippers k la Sutton, 182 
Kitchen Hints, 228 

— Range, to Keep Clean, 226 



Lamb, Breast k la Grecque, 66 

— Cutlets k la Financi^re, 68 

— Tails, Ragoiit of, 76 
Lark Pie, 97 

Lax Savoury a la Arlequin, 23 
Laying Dinner Tables, 227 
Liver and Bacon a la Bourgeoise, 

68 
Lobster Chartreuse, 23 

— Cream Chartreuse k la Prince 
Edward, 91 

•^ k\sL Kitchener, 24 



Lobster a la Newmarket, 25 

— Salad, 183 

— klsL United Service, 25 
LucuUus Patties, 69 

Macaroni alia Napoli, 184 

— Timbale, 113 
Mac^doine of Fruits, 161 
Mackerel k la V^nitienne, 25 
Medallions k la Diana, 69 
Melange k TEmpire, 70 
Milanese Frivolities, 70 
Milk Beverage, 214 

Mousse de Volaille k la St. 

Andrew, 98 
Mushroom Souffle, 184 

— ^ la Tuileries, 184 
Mussels k la Gourmet, 26 

— Stewed, 26 
Mutton Broth, 213, 214 

— Chop in Beef Tea, 214 

— Cutlets k la Pompadour, 71 

Neapolitan Cream, 162 
Nougat, 201 

Ocean Flowers, 164 

Odours, Cooking, to Prevent, 226 

Omelet Royal, 187 

Orange Chartreuse, 163 

— Coquembouche, 153 

— for Invalids, 215 

— Sandwiches, 163 
Oriental Patties, 72 
Oyster Aigrettes, 27 

— Baskets, 27 

— ^ la Flamande, 184 

— k la Montreal, 184 

— Pancakes, 184 

— Patties k la Napoli, 28 

— k la Prince Edward, 28 

— k la St. Pierre, 30 

— Rissolettes, 29 

— Souffle, Iced, 29, 184 

— Surprise a la Baden-Powell, 
164 

Panada, 222 
Parmesan Tartlets, 186 
Partridges k la Masonic, 28 



340 



COOKERV A LA MODE 



Patties, Orienial, 72 
Peach Pyramid, 16S 
PeoT Mould, 165 
Pears a la S^vignf, 166 
Phcasuit Blanc Mange auK 
Truffes, 99 

— a la SL Charles, 100 

— Pic. too 

— Quenelles, Prince Albert, 101 
Pies, to Prevent BoJUngOver, 226 
Pineapple Bavarian Cream, 166 

— Layer Cake, 167 

— Souffle, 167 
Plate, to Clean, 330 
Pork Croquettes, 73 

— Cutlets a la Berlin, 73 
i) la Gourmet, 74 

— au Nid, 187 

— au Roi, 74 
Potatoes en Surprise, iia 
Prawns mont&, 30 

— Cany, Iced, 75 

— JeUy, 30 

— au Naturel k la mode, 187 

— Rissoles, 30 
Pudding, Brown Bread, 309 

— Royal, 170 
-San Toy, 171 

— Sttawbeny, 171 



— i la Melba, IM 

— ^ la Meunier, 103 
Quenelles de Volaille 

Metveiile, 75 



Rabbit Cream ' 100 up,' 96 
Raspberry Fool, Iced, l63 
Red Mullet a la Pasha, 31 

i la LLvomo, 32 

Ris de Veau a la Supriroe, 7S 
Rissoles of Cocliscombs, 76 
Rognons a la Curio, 170 
Ru^ian Tartlets, iSS 



Salad, Cucumber and Prawns, 

179 
— Lobster, 183 



Salmon Bombes aux Concombre 

I - en KHe. 33 

I — Pudding Romano, 34 

— Verde a la, 34 

I Sandwiches, Caviaie, 178 
I ^ Orange, 165 
Sardines k la Brighlon, 36 

— Madras, 188 

— Spinach with, 36 

— Stuffed Pnavencule, 36 

— ala Valetla, 189 
Sauce, Ambassador's, 121 

— Anchovy, 121 
I — Apples, iza 

— B&maise, 1 22 

— Bechamel, 123 

— Beurre Noir, 123 

— Black, 124 

— Bordelaise i la Gouffi!, 124 

— Bread, 124 

— Brown, 125 
^ Caper, 125 

— Champagne (Iced), 130 

— Chateaubriand, 125 

— Chaudfroid, 126 
^Cheirj-, 130 

— Cranberry, 126 

— Chili, 126 

— Cucumber, 126 

— Diable, 127 

— D'Uselles, 127 

— Eipagnole, 1 28 
1 —Fennel, 128 

I — Financi^re, 12S 
I — Framboise, 129 
' ^ Geneva, 129 

— Green, 129 

— HaiD, 129 

— Horse-radish, 130 

I — — 4 la Tedeaco, 1 30 

: — Irlandaise, 131 

I — Italian, 131 

I — Lemon, 131 

I — Madras, '31 

I — Mayonnaise, ijj 



INDEX 



241 



Sauce, Mousseline, 133 

— Mushroom, 133 

— Orleans, 133 

— Oyster, 133 

— Parsley, 134 

— Pease Pudding, 134 

— P^rigueux, 135 

— Piquante, 135 

— Poivrade, 135 

— Port-wine, 136 

— Portuguese, 136 

— Ravigote, 136 

— Reform, 137 

— Remoulade, 137 

— Robert, 137 

— SchUler, 138 

— Shalot, 138 

— Soubise, 138 

— Supreme, 138 

— Swedish Iced, 139 

— Sweet and Sharp, 139 
— • Tarragon, 139 

— Tartare, 139 
•— Tomato, 139 

— Truffle, 139 

— Villcroi, 134 

Sauces, their Preparation, 119 et 

seq. 
Scorching; Food, 225 
Shrimps a TEspagnole, 37 
Smelts Fried 2Sauce Tartare, 37 
Socles, 224 
Sole Bombes i la Baltique, 37 

— 4 la Dundonald, 38 

— Fillet, 216 

i la Rothschild, 39 

— for Invalids, 215 

— k la Rouennaise, 39 

— k la Stella, 40 
Souffles, Iced, 159 

— Pineapple, 167 

— Tom Thumb, 190 
Soups, Making of, i et seq, 

— Bonne Femme, 5 

— Calf-tail, 6 

— Cauliflower a la Spagna, 6 

— Cockaleekie, 7 

— Genoa, 8 

— Her Majesty's, 7 

— Julienne, 8 * 

— Kidney k la Auckland, 9 



Soups, Leek, 9 
k la Reine, 10 

— Lentil, 10 

— Macaroni, 10 

— Monte Carlo Consomm^, 1 1 

— Mushroom, 1 1 
and Lobster, 12 

— Mutton, 12 

— Sago k la Cr^me, 13 

-— Sheep's Head Broth, 13 

— Tomato, 14 
Strawberries en Paradis, 172 
Stuffing, S3 

Sugar, to Boil, 197 

— to Spin, 196 
Surprise Mushrooms, 148 
Spinach and Poached Eggs, 113 
Swans k la Henley, 78 

Sweet Poached Eggs, 171 
Sweetbreads k la Potosi, 81 

— ^ la Sant^, 216 

— ^ la Supreme, 78 
Syrups, 224 



Tartlets Bizarres, 190 

Terms used in Cookery, 232 et 

seq, 
Timbale of Macaroni, 79 
Tit-bits k la Mikado, 190 
Tomato Curry, Iced, 191 

— Jelly with Bloater Roes, 191 
Tomatoes and Spinach, 116 

— en Surprise, 112 
Tongue, Pressed, 63 
Tornados k la Natal, 80 
Toronto Moulds, 191 
Torpedos, 80 

Trifle k la Old Century, 172 
Tripe k la Normande, 216 
Trout (Truite) Saumon^e k la 
Norw^ian, 41 

— Turban of, 41 
Truffles k PItalienne, 192 

— i la Milan, 1 1 1 
Turbot k la Grimaldi, 42 

— H^lolse, 42 

— Mosaique, 43 

Turnip and Carrot Mould, 1 1 1 

— Pasties, 114 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



4 ta Andsloose, 83 

& la Clolhilde, Si 

^ — Donna lAnna, 83 
Porte Vdne, 85 

— Cutlet, 83 

4 la Dundonnld. 83 

4 [a Heini, 84 

V^etable Mairow i t'Andalouse, 
"S 

— — & la Firenia, 1 1 5 
Vegetables, Ibeir Cookery, 109 



Venisoti Cream k la Danbise, 

Vol-au-venl of Lamb Sweetbreads 



Wild Dock in Aspic, 8g 

Jogeed. 89 

— a la Serviette, 104 



IW-STRBCT SqUARB 



A'' loo 



&rl)^ 





-Tit' — >^7"LVX T— ^ 









3^ 



Boston Public Library 

Do not vrite in this book or mark it witli pen or 
pencil. Penalties for »o doing are impoeed by the 
Revised Laws of Uie Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 


ThU bctk '.CO, 

List stamped hel 


i::'ied to the horrowcr on the date 


^f mjnit Ckt 






■^ liUV *»«L 






























1 

































































PORII NO. 60»; l.i.llitVOII. 



A LA MODE COOKERY 




nr-sr 



''SRh3-^' 



Soles a la Dundonald. 2.' Salmon en Fete. 

3. Salmon a la Verdi. 



A LA MODE COOKERY 



UP-TO-DATE RECIPES 



BY 

MRS! DE SALIS 

AUTHOR OF THE A LA MODE SERIES OF COOKERY BOOKS 



^^H y^ 



'Sir, 3 bavc cat of it anb sball be bapp^ to ^o so a^ain' 

Dk. Johnson 



IPVT/I TWENTY-FOUR PLATES 
SIXTEEN OF WHICH ARE PRINTED IN COLOURS 



LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON 

NEW YORK AND BOMBAY / 



190? 



.■^ 11 rich Is i«jovved 



V- 



TO 
THE LADY AUDREY BULLER 

WHOSE ENTHUSIASTIC INTEREST 

IN ALL THAT TENDS TO MAKE HOiMES HAPPY 

HAS PROMPTED THE AUTHORESS 

TO DEDICATE WITH SINCERE FRIENDSHIP AND REGARD 

THIS LITTLE BOOK UPON AN ART 

THE NEGLECT OF WHICH WILL MAKE 

THE HAPPIEST HOME MISERABLE 



PREFACE 

Encouraged by the popularity of my little A-la- 
Mode Series of Cookery Books, I have been per- 
suaded to produce the present volume, and I hope 
the feature of the illustrations will render the book 
of special service to many housewives ; especially 
as in the present century, when everything is so 
decorative, and cookery has become a fine art, it is 
quite as necessary to have Plates for cookery fashions 
as for dress, furniture, &c. 

One or two of the recipes from my other books 
will be found again in this, illustrated, which will 
better explain how they should appear when gar- 
nished ; and at any time I shall be pleased to answer 
any questions relating to ' A la Mode Cookery ' upon 
which my readers desire information. In conclusion, 
may I add the words of Owen Meredith, who writes : 

We may live without poetry, music, or art ; 

We may live without conscience and love without heart ; 

We may live without friends, we may live without books, 

But civilised man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without books : what is knowledge but grieving ? 

He may live without hope : what is hope but deceiving ? 

He may live without love : what is passion but pining ? 

But where is the man who can live without dining ? 



CONTENTS 



rAGE 

Soups . . i 

Fish 15 

Entries • . . 45 

Poultry and Game 87 

Dressed Vegetables ...... .107 

Sauces 117 

Entremets and Sweets 143 

Savouries and Hors-d'ceovres 175 

Cakes, etc 193 

Invalid Cookery 205 

Miscellaneous Recipes and Household Hints . . 219 

Terms Used in Cooking and in the Kitchen . . . 232 

Index 237 



LIST OF PLATES 



PLATE 
I. 



IL 



in. 



IV. 



V. 



RINGS 



1. Soles A la Dundonalu . 

2. Salmon en Fete . 

3. Salmon a la Verdi . 

A. Stockpot .... 

B. 'Sans Graisse' Ladle 

C. Straining Soup 

D. Digester 

E. The ' Royal Roaster ' 

F. Cutting Macaroni into 

for Soup .... 

G. The Crown Frying-pan 

I. Crab a la Twentieth Century 
Crab a la Transvaal . 
Turban of Trout 
Lobster A la Newmarket . 
Prawns Months au Naturel . 
Savoury Finnan Haddock Patties 
Smelts Fried .... 
Oyster Patties a la Napoli 
Lobster Salad .... 
Oyster Aigrettes .... 

1. Truite Saumon^e a la Nor- 

VfiGIENNE 

2. Sole a la Stella .... 

3. Cutlets A la Rouge et Noir . 

4. Medallions of Foie Gras A 

Rosiere 

5. Whiting A la Russe 



la 



• Frontispiece 



V To face p. 2 



16 



28 



40 



Xll 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



PLATE 

VI. 



VII. 



VIII. 



IX. 



X. 



XL 



XIL 



XIIL 



LA 



1. Pressed Beef a la Cornwall 

2. BouDiN A la Kaiser . 

3. Chartreuse A l'Alexandra. 

4. Chaudfroid a la Homburg 

a. tournebroche a fum^e . 

B. Clockwork Portion of Above 

C. Eureka Wire Saucepan Lining 

D. When in Use . ... 

1. Lamb Cutlets Financi^re . 

2. Dressed Tongue 

3. Cutlets A la Pompadour 

4. Kidneys Stewed with Mushrooms 

5. Veal Cutlets A la Dundonald . 

1. Medallions of Chicken A 

Audrey .... 

2. Chartreuse A l'Echec 

3. Swans A la Henley 

4. Cutlets A la General 

1. Melange A l'Empire 

2. Torpedos . . . • . 

3. Timbale of Macaroni . 

4. Medallions a la Diana . 

A. Boiled Fowl .... 

B. Roast Pheasant . 

C. Roast Partridges 

1. Little A^ics of Wild Duck. 

2. Chicken A la Tombeau 

3. Blanc Mange of Pheasant . 

4. Prawns A la ' de Salis ' . 

5. Chicken A la CnANCELLifcRE 

A. Roast Pigeons 

B. Roast Goose .... 

C. Roast Fowl .... 



To face p. 46 



48 



68 



7S 



80 



86 



90 



LIST OF PLATES 



xni 



PLATE 

XIV. 



XV. 



XVI. 



XVII. 



1. Pork. Cutlets a la Berlin . 

2. Creme de Veau Porte Veine . 

3. Creme de Lapin * 100 up' . 

4. Mousse de Volaille St. Andrew 

5. Lobster a la United Service 



A. Asparagus 

B. Asparagus Tongs . 

C. Rack for serving Asparagus on 

D. Sauceboat .... 

E. Potato Straws .... 

F. Stuffed Tomatoes . 

G. Spinach with Hard-boiled Eggs 

A. Vegetable Rack 

B. Asparagus Saucepan . 

C. Brooklyn Boiler . 

D. Brooklyn Fluted Crust Bread- 

pans 

E. Raisin Stoner 

A. Gourmet Boila 

B. Gourmet whilst Cooking 

C. Pie-dish 

D. Queen's Pudding-boiler . 

E. Chafing-dish .... 

F. Salamander .... 



XVIII. I. Ballettes a la Billard 

2. Chartreuse a la Reine . 

3. Petits Gateaux a l'Elys]£e 

4. Ballettes a la Joujou 

XIX. I, Corbeilles de Fantaisie 

2. COQUEMBOUCHE D'ORANGE . 

3. Harlequin Jelly . 



To face p. 96 



loS 



120 



144 



[52 



XIV 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



PLATE 

XX. 



XXI. 



XXII, 



1. Sweet Poached Eggs . . . A 

2. Neapolitan Cream .... 

3. Jugged Hare a la Surprise 

4. Rhubarb Jelly and Banana Cream 

5. Ocean Flowers . 

6. Surprise Mushrooms 

7. Eggs en Surprise 

8. Rognons a la Curio 

9. Macedon Jelly . 

1. Tartlets Bizarre 

2. Cigarettes a la Royale . 

3. Fish Balls a la Bizarre 

4. Pork au Nid 



1. Cake aux Pistaches . 

2. Californian Jelly . 

3. Cornucopia a la S^vign^ 

4. Frontignac Jelly . 

5. Apricot Cream a la Princesse 

6. Cake a la Cerise . 

7. Raspberry Jelly a la Dieppe 

8. Cake Glac£ ... 
XXIII. I. Red and White Currants 

Dessert .... 
Brandy Cherries Iced . 
Melon Cut for Serving 
Mac^doine of Fruit . 



XXIV. 



Pat6 de Foie Gras 
Sucking Pig 
Calf's Head 



} To face p. 156 



190 



194 



220 



224 



SOUPS 



Spoon-meat, bespeak a long spoon' 

Comeay of E-f^rors 



'jC'est la soupe qui fait le soldat ' 



i , 



PLATE IT. 




A, Stockpot; B, 'Sans Graisse ' Ladle; C, Straining Soup; D, Digester; 

E, The ' Royal Roaster ' ; F, Cutting Macaroni into rings for Soiip ; 

G, The Crown Frying-pan. 



SOUPS AND SOUP-MAKING 

The origin of soup lies in the obscurity of the Dark 
Ages, for it is one of the earliest culinary preparations 
we meet with. We read of a mess of pottage in the 
Bible, and it is recorded that when Duguesclin fought 
William of Blancbourg he ate three wine soups in 
honour of the Holy Trinity. 

Grimod de la Reyniere said that soup was to 
dinner what a portico is to a palace or an overture 
to an opera : it is not only the commencement of a 
feast, but should give an idea of what is to follow. In 
France one always gets the perfection of soups and 
broths, because a French cook will make a delicious 
soup from a bunch of herbs and water in which an 
egg has been boiled, which proves that a good soup 
may be made almost from anything. 

The great factor in making soups is the careful 
preparation of them, to thoroughly understand the 
difference between bouillon and consomme and to 
have a pot-au-feu, stock-pot, or soup-digester, always 
on the stove. Bouillon is a beef broth ; the consomme 
is the same which has been doubled with veal and 
fowl, the former to give it gelatine, the latter to give 
it flavour. The water in which meat, poultry, or fish 
has been boiled makes a good foundation for soups, 
adding gravy, meat, bones, poultry trimmings and 
ham bones ; the stock or water should double the 

B 2 



4 COOKERY X LA MODE 

meat, a quart for every pound. In soup-making 
it is important to have a good wire sieve instead of 
a colander, which cooks are so fond of using. 

On the stock of course greatly depends the good- 
ness of the soup, whether brown or white. I consider 
that a portion of cooked meat flavours the soup more 
highly than when only raw meat is used. 

One of the chief things to remember is to keep 
the flavours equal and not to allow any one in par- 
ticular to predominate. Salt is best added just 
before taking the soup off the stove, as it is apt to 
harden the meat and prevent the flow of the juices. 
Fat should never find its way into the stock-pot by 
any chance. 

The stock should always be made the day before 
it is wanted and the ingredients simmered for about 
ten hours, after which it should be strained through 
a hair sieve into a basin and the fat skimmed off next 
day. After removing the fat a damp hot cloth must 
be passed over it to absorb every particle of fat, and 
the piece at the bottom of the basin, where there is 
generally a little sediment, must be cut off, when the 
stock must be returned to the stock-pot or digester 
with the addition of the flavourings. 

When soups are boiled they will never clear with- 
out the adjuncts of the whites and shells of eggs and 
a jelly bag, though the latter is not necessary, asa table 
napkin dipped in hot water and laid over a tammy sieve 
answers the purpose much better. A few giblets boiled 
in with the other ingredients give richness as well as 
a good colour when clear soup is required. 

Skimming is another necessity which so many 



SOUP 5 

cooks are so fond of shirking. The ' sans-graisse 
soup-ladle is a most useful addition to the kitchen, by 
which stock can be obtained without any fat which 
might be on the top. The ladle is plunged rapidly 
into the stock, bottom part first, until the stock 
reaches the top of the spout outside, then bent a 
little to the side, where the spout is, so as to facilitate 
the liquid running up. (See Plate II.) 

A tiny pinch of sugar stirred into the soup when 
it is ready for table is often an improvement, but 
of course much depends upon the quantity of sac- 
charine matter the vegetables contain. 

I have only given recipes for a few soups, as in the 
multitude of cookery books most excellent ones are 
to be found, and the few I have selected are the most 
popular at present. 



Bonne Femme Soup 

Take two lettuces, two leaves of sorrel, four sprigs 
of tarragon, four sprigs of chervil ; wash and shred 
them finely. Cut a cucumber in half, peel it and cut 
it into thin slices, and then shred it with a sharp knife. 
Melt in a stewpan half an ounce of butter and place 
in the shredded vegetables, and let these stew for five 
minutes. Sprinkle them with half a salt-spoonful of 
salt and a salt-spoonful of castor sugar. Watch to see 
the vegetables do not discolour. Put into a sauce- 
pan a quart of white stock and let it boil, and when 
it is quite boiling pour it into the stewpan with the 
vegetables and let all boil gently for ten minutes till 
the vegetables are tender. Take the pan off the fire 



6 COOKERY A LA MODE 

and let it cool a little, then add a liaison of the yolks 
of three eggs well beaten, into which a gill of cream 
has been stirred, and strain through a sieve into a 
stewpan. Warm up and serve. 

Calfs-tail Soup 

Cut two calves' tails into three or four pieces. Put a 
piece of butter the size of a pigeon's egg into a stew- 
pan with a turnip, two carrots, three onions, a head of 
celery, a bouquet garni, and half a pint of white stock. 
Add the calves' tails and cook till the bottom of the 
stewpan shows a light glaze ; keep stirring ; then add 
a couple of ounces of flour, which must be well stirred 
in ; then add a quart of white stock, stir every now 
and then till it boils, skim well, and then let it simmer 
till the tails are tender. Take out the tails, add a 
little salt, cayenne, and the strained piece of a lemon ; 
strain through a sieve, and put into the tureen with 
the pieces of calves' tails. Give a boil up and serve. 
A glass of sherry and a table-spoonful of cream im- 
prove this soup. 

Lambs' tails can be used in the same way to 
make lamb's-tail soup. 

Cauliflower Soup a la Spagna 

Take a large cauliflower, boil, and divide it into 
neat little branches ; cut a turnip and a carrot into 
small egg-shaped pieces the size of olives. Add a 
sliced truffle and some sliced celery, and boil ; then 
drain and place them in a stewpan with six ounces of 



SOUP 7 

butter, a small onion, two cloves, with salt and 
pepper to taste. x\dd some good fish stock and let 
all simmer together very gently. When the onion is 
soft, take it out. Have ready a puree of split peas, 
which stir into some clear fish stock. 

Place the vegetables in the tureen^ with some 
fried dice-shaped sippets. Pour the soup over and 
serve very hot. 

Cock-a-leekie 

Wash one dozen leeks, and cut them into Julienne 
strips ; also have the water a chicken has been boiled 
in, and take the breast of the chicken and cut it into 
tJiin strips. Have ready two quarts of the chicken 
broth. Let it boil fast. Add the leek strips and let 
them boil for three hours ; then add the strips of fowl 
and let all slowly boil up. 

If a puree is desired, the leeks must be rubbed 
through a fine sieve, boiled up, and cream added. 



Her Majesty's Soup 

Take some poultry giblets that have been well 
washed and scrubbed, and put them into a stewpan 
with boiling water, to blanch for five minutes, and 
put them into cold water ; then take them out and 
put them into a quart of white stock, with two onions, 
one carrot, one turnip, one bouquet garni, two cloves, 
and some mignonette pepper ; let the whole boil 
for two hours, skimming occasionally. Mix a table- 
spoonful of flour with a little cold stock, put it into a 



8 COOKERY A LA MODE 

clean stewpan with an ounce of butter, and let it cook 
for a few minutes ; then add the stock, in which has 
been put a dust of cayenne, six drops of lemon- 
juice and a dessert-spoonful of Victor sauce. Let the 
whole boil up, and strain into the tureen. 

Genoa Soup 

Wash thoroughly a moderate-sized bunch of 
borage, two large cabbage lettuces, and a beetroot, 
and cut them up. Dissolve four ounces of butter in 
a stewpan, and add the vegetables, and let them stew 
for about fifteen minutes. Add half a pint of fish 
stock, and let all boil gently for half an hour ; then 
skim well and remove the pan from the stove and let 
it cool. Beat up four eggs and mix them with the 
cooled vegetables, add half an ounce of grated Par- 
mesan, half a pint of cream, salt and pepper to taste. 
Thoroughly mix these ingredients ; then put them 
into a gourmet boiler, and place it in a saucepan 
of boiling water till cooked ; then take it out, and 
divide the ingredients into unequal portions in a soup 
tureen, and pour over clear fish soup. 

Indian Soup 

Take the white meat from a couple of fowls which 
have been roasted and well basted with butter, pound 
it in a mortar with two ounces of sweet almonds, 
the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, pepper and 
salt to taste. Then take three ounces of bread- 
crumbs soaked in milk and mix with them two 



SOUP 9 

ounces of grated Parmesan ; when these are tho- 
roughly pounded and mixed, pass through a sieve, 
add a Httle flour, and when well mixed make this 
paste into very small balls and boil them in butter 
and water ; drain and place them in a soup tureen 
and pour over very good clear soup. 

Kidney Soup k la Auckland 

Cut an ox kidney into thin slices, season these 
with salt and pepper, dredge a little flour over them, 
and fry them in butter till nicely browned. 

Pour over them as much boiling water as will 
cover them, and simmer gently for an hour. Take 
out the kidney and cut it into small pieces and 
replace them into the saucepan with two quarts of 
stock, two turnips, two carrots, one onion, three sticks 
of celery (all cut small), and a small bunch of savoury 
herbs. 

Simmer slowly for an hour and a half, then take 
out the herbs, add a table-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup, the same of port wine, a little Reading sauce, 
and very Httle salt and pepper, and thicken the soup 
with a lump of butter rolled in flour. 

Leek Soup 

Take two dozen leeks, cut the white and tender 
green parts into rounds half an inch long. 

Have ready two quarts of good white stock well 
flavoured, let it boil, then add the pieces of leek, and 
let them boil slowly for three hours. 



lO COOKERY A LA MODE 

Leek Soup a la Reine 

Trim and wash off all the green parts of about six 
to eight leeks, and cut the white pieces into rounds. 
Blanch them, put them into a saucepan with a 
quarter of a pound of butter, and stir over the fire 
for about three minutes ; add some good white 
stock, about two pints ; boil till cooked. Then rub 
them through a fine hair sieve. Add a pint of white 
sauce and cook for about twenty minutes. Keep 
stirring all the time. i\dd pepper and salt to taste. 

Let it cool, then add the yolks of two eggs 
well beaten, a gill of cream, strain into the soup, 
and stir over the fire till it is smooth and as thick 
as cream. But be sure not to let it boil. Serve 
fried bread with it cut in the shape of small dice. 

Lentil Soup 

Take a quart of lentils, put them in a stewpan 
with a slice of ham in good stock, add a carrot, an 
onion, a turnip, and a head of celery. Let all boil 
together slowly for three or four hours. Then rub 
the soup through a sieve, and place it back in the 
saucepan to boil ; then draw it to the side of the stove, 
skim it, and boil up again ; serve with fried bread 
cut to the size of dice. 

Macaroni Soup 

Soak macaroni in salt and water, and boil it in a 
little clear stock. When cooked, cut it up into very 



SOUP 1 1 

tiny rings, rinse them in warm water, place them at 
the bottom of the tureen, and pour over some boil- 
ing clear soup. Grated Parmesan should be handed 
with the soup. (See Plate II.) 

Consomm^ a la Monte Carlo 

Make a good clear soup flavoured with trimmings, 
carcases, and bones of game, and put into it just before 
serving little custards made in four colours. Cut them 
into the shapes of diamonds, hearts, spades, and clubs. 
The yellow are made with the yolk of egg only, 
poached in a little stock, the white with the whites, 
and the pink and green with the white of egg tinted 
with cochineal and sap-green colourings. 

Mushroom Soup 

Have ready some good veal broth ; bring to the 
boil. Have ready some well-washed mushrooms, 
allowing half a pound of them to one pint of broth. 
Chop them up with a Spanish onion, also cut up 
small ; put them into the boiling stock, and boil 
hard for a quarter of an hour. Then pass all through 
a sieve ; add a thickening of flour, milk, and butter, 
pepper and salt to taste. When thick enough, place 
the saucepan on the side of the fire, and when cool- 
ing add the yolks of three eggs beaten up in a 
table-spoonful of cream. A squeeze of lemon and a 
little mushroom ketchup added is thought to be an 
improvement. 



12 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Mushroom and Lobster Soup 

(Naples Recipe) 

Take a large lobster and divide it into two pieces 
lengthways, extract the two tail-pieces and put apart, 
but pound all the rest of the flesh. Put the shells 
into water and boil them, then drain away the water 
and add it to the pounded lobster. Now put a 
large head of celery, a small bunch of parsley, two 
parsnips cut in four, one medium-sized onion, two 
bay- leaves, six ounces of finely minced tomatoes, 
two cloves, half a pound of fresh butter, and boil all 
together till cooked. Take three pounds of button 
mushrooms, wash them in water and lemon juice, 
cook and slice them and put them apart. Pass the 
soup through a hair sieve, fry some bread cut into 
dice, place them in the tureen with the mushrooms 
and the tail part of the lobster cut into pieces. 
Pour the puree over them and serve very hot. The 
puree should be of the consistency of good thick 
cream. 

Mutton Soup 

Boil half a teacupful of Scotch barley till 
tender in a quart of good mutton broth, two onions, 
two shalots, two carrots, one turnip, a table-spoonful 
of parsley, all cut up very finely, and pepper and salt 
to taste. Put in some neck cutlets from the mutton 
into the soup, neatly trimmed and without fat, and 
let all stew well. Before serving, thicken the soup 
with a teacupful of cream, added cold, then boil up. 



SOUP 13 

Sago Soup k la Cr^me 

Put one pint of white stock on to boil in a stew- 
pan ; then take one ounce of prepared crushed sago 
and stir it in gradually when the stock boils ; after 
which move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and 
let all simmer till the sago is quite clear. Beat up 
the yolks of two eggs with two table-spoonfuls of 
cream, and stir in, and then strain the mixture into 
another basin. Remove the stewpan from the fire 
and let it cool ; when cool, add gradually three 
table-spoonfuls of the egg liaison, stirring all the time, 
taking great care the eggs do not curdle, then add 
the rest of the stock, stirring well, and add pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Sheep's-head Broth 

Choose a fat young head and four trotters well 
cleaned. Scrape and soak them in cold water, then 
split the head in halves, remove the brains and eyes, 
and cut out the gristle inside the nose. Leave the 
trotters in water till required. Tie the two halves of 
the head together to keep the tongue in its proper 
place. Lay the head in a saucepan with two pounds 
of scrag of mutton, a breakfast-cupful of barley, a 
quarter of a pint of pea-powder, a little salt, and a 
gallon of water. Boil gently, carefully skimming. 
After the head has boiled an hour, put in the trotters, 
and after two hours, add two carrots, two turnips, two 
onions, and a few sticks of celery all sliced together. 
Boil the head for three and a half hours very slowly, 
serve on a dish with the trotters round, put the brains 



14 COOKERY A LA MODE 

into the soup whilst it is boih'ng and simmer for 
fifteen minutes ; put the soup into a tureen, take out 
the brains and make them into forcemeat balls fried ; 
the head and tongue should be served separately 
covered with a brown piquante sauce. 



Tomato Soup 

First make half a pint of tomato sauce, melt one 
ounce of butter in a saucepan and one rasher of 
bacon ; add one carrot and a piece of onion cut small, 
ten peppercorns, two bay-leaves, and a pinch of 
cayenne ; cook this over the fire without burning, or 
it will spoil the colour. When cooked, add two 
pounds of tomatoes either fresh or tinned, stir all 
these ingredients well, and let them boil till they 
thicken ; when boiled, rub through a sieve ; add very 
little salt. Have ready three-quarters of a pint of 
boiling stock, into which put a dessert-spoonful of 
crushed sago, which must be sprinkled into the stock 
a little at a time, then add the tomato sauce and 
bring it to the boil, but not allowing it to boil after- 
wards. Croutons should be handed with this soup, 
cut into the tiniest of squares. 



FISH 



I'll make for fish' 

Tempest 



All fish from sea or shore, 
Freshet or purling brook of shell and fire 
And exquisites! name ; for which was drained 
Pontus and Lucrine bay and Afric coast ' 

Milton 



PLATE III. 







H. 



1. Crab a la 20th Century. 

2. Crab a la Transvaal. 



3. Turban of Trout. 

4. Lobster a la Newmarket. 



FISH AND FISH-COOKING 

Nature has amongst her other works provided an 
unbounded supply of fish for the food of man, there- 
fore it is the duty of us all to know how to cook and 
serve it in different and appetising ways, so that all 
tastes may be satisfied. The flesh of fish is rich in 
nitrogen, carbon, and phosphorus. The first is essen- 
tial for keeping up our bodily vigour, carbon gives 
heat and strength, whilst phosphorus feeds the brain. 

The Germans consider that without phosphorus 
* there is no thought,' and the Jews, who are famous 
for their acute mental perceptions, eat more fish than 
any other people, and yet they are very particular 
what fish they eat, as in the eleventh chapter of 
Leviticus is found the following verse : ' Whatsoever 
hath no fins nor scales in the waters, they shall be an 
abomination unto you ; ' and therefore the Hebrews 
or ancient Jews ignored eels, oysters, prawns, shrimps, 
and mussels. 

The ways of cooking fish are many and various, 
and I am giving a few recipes for simple cookery 
as well as for high-class fancy ones ; but before I 
describe them I must say a few words on the actual 
cooking of our briny friends. 

There are two ways of boiling fish. The first is 

C 



I 8 COOKERY A LA MODE 

to place the fish in cold water with plenty of salt 
and a little vinegar ; the second is to plunge it in 
boiling salted water. 

The latter way is the more expeditious, but the 
former keeps the quality better. In either case the 
fish should be taken out of the water as soon as 
cooked, and well drained to preserve its flavour and 
firmness. The liquor should be well skimmed as fast 
as the scum rises. For large fish it is best to keep it 
a long time at a gentle simmer. Fish requires the 
greatest care in cooking, as it is easily spoiled both 
in flavour and appearance. If overdone a minute or 
two it breaks into pieces, and if underdone it is un- 
wholesome. In frying fish the fire must be bright 
and clear, and the first thing is to see that the fish is 
thoroughly dry, and then floured caretully. An egg 
should be well beaten up, yolk and white together, 
and the breadcrumbs dry and fine, and passed 
through a wire sieve. After the fish is floured, brush 
it over carefully. Egg it all over with a paste-brush, 
and cover it with the breadcrumbs ; then see that the 
fat is boiling, which can be ascertained by dropping 
a single drop of cold water into it, and if it makes 
much hissing the fat boils, then the fish should be 
instantly plunged into it. 

To bake fish, place it in a small bakmg-tin in the 
oven. Cook it in a little good drippmg, with the 
addition of a few breadcrumbs, pepper, salt, and a 
sprinkling of sweet herbs. 

Salmon should be cooked in boiling water ; when 
it is to be broiled, it should be cut into slices one inch 
thick and steeped in a dish with half a gill of salad oil, 



FISH 19 

salt and pepper, and then broiled over a good clear 
fire for twelve minutes each side. 

Turbot and brill should be soaked in cold 
water containing salt for two hours before it is dressed, 
and should be cooked in a turbot-kettle and covered 
well with cold water ; set over a gentle fire, with a 
handful of salt and a gill of vinegar. The scum 
must be removed as it rises. When it boils up, put 
in a little cold water and take out some of the hot ; 
on its once more boiling, if it be not very large, take 
it off the fire, as fish should never be allowed to boil 
too strongly up. But there are so many cookery 
books, as I have mentioned before, that it will be 
needless for me to go into these particulars, as 1 must 
devote as much space as possible to recipes ; but I 
may mention that if fish is wanted to be kept hot for 
a few minutes before serving, cover it with two or 
three folds of clean cloth on the strainer across the 
kettle, but it must not be kept in the water.^ 



Boules k la Durban 



Boil a Finnan haddock and flake off the flesh, 
pound it in a mortar with a couple of ounces of 
butter, a dessert-spoonful of either essence of anchovy 
or the liquor from some oysters, and a dash of 
cayenne. Rub all through a sieve, then add two 
table-spoonfuls of fine breadcrumbs, a tea-spoonful 

* There are many more recipes of dressed fish in my little book, 
Dressed Fish a la mode, and the Housewife's A'eferee. 

C 2 



20 COOKERY A LA MODE 

of finely minced parsley, and the yolk of an egg. 
Roll this into balls the size of a walnut, drop them 
into boiling fat and fry a delicate golden colour. 
Pile them pyramid fashion on a dish, sprinkle with 
grated Parmesan, and decorate with fried parsley 
and hard-boiled eggs. When this dish is required to 
be rich, add a table-spoonful of cream and half the 
quantity of butter, and mince with the fish half a 
dozen oysters. 

Canapes a la Brighton 

Cook a Finnan haddock, cut it into fingers about 
one and a half inch broad and three and a half inches 
long ; fry some bread lightly, having cut it into the 
same size pieces as the haddock ; place on each of 
these pieces of fried bread a slice of hot bacon, on 
which put the haddock. Boil an egg hard, pass the 
yolk through a sieve and strain it over the fish, sprinkle 
a little coralline pepper over all, and garnish with 
parsley. 

Codfish a la Moderne 

Take two slices of cod and cut them into eight 
fillets. Roll them round and fasten with a piece of tape. 
Have a mixture made with melted butter, the juice 
of a small lemon, salt to taste, a little cayenne, and 
the juice of an onion. Pour this sauce over the rolls 
and bake in an oven for twenty minutes. Arrange 
round a dish, fill the centre with Duchesse potatoes, 
and serve oyster or egg sauce with it. 



FISH 2 1 



Crab Rissoles 



Take the flesh from a couple of crabs and mix 
with it two ounces of fine breadcrumbs, one ounce of 
butter, and a whole egg. Put this mixture into a 
mortar and pound it till quite smooth ; add a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce and a large table-spoonful 
of cream, roll into balls the size of a golf-ball, egg and 
crumb, and fry in boiling fat. Dish in pyramids with 
fried parsley and lemon croutons. 

Crab a la Twentieth Century 

Make a panada with the meat of a crab, two yolks 
of egg, and a gill of cream ; also make a savoury 
custard with two eggs, half a pint of cream, and 
a small shalot. Put some of the crab panada 
into a mould ; put on ice, then place on a layer of 
custard and put on ice again ; add more crab panada 
and more custard till the mould is full. Return it to 
the refrigerator, and, when sufficiently iced, turn out 
with shredded cucumber over it and with mayonnaise 
sauce round it. (See Plate III.) 

Crab a la Transvaal 

Line a plain round mould with pale-green aspic 
jelly. Slice a cucumber in slices a quarter of an 
inch thick and about the size of a florin, and cover 
them with aspic cream. Cut a small crescent-shaped 
piece of truffle and place on the centre of each slice, 
put on ice till well frozen. Pound the flesh of a 



2 2 COOKERY A LA MODE 

crab, season with a little Nepaul pepper and a dessert- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce. Mix in with this half a 
pint of whipped aspic and whipped cream, colour with 
a little cherry-red colouring and some pounded lobster 
coral ; put on ice, and when cold stamp it out in slices 
the size of a florin. Arrange the cucumber and crab 
alternately in layers round the mould and fill in the 
centre with an iced salad of lettuce, cucumber cut 
into pea-shape, truffles, capers, tomatoes, fillets of 
anchovy and some cockscombs. Cover with mayon- 
naise dressing, and sprinkle with lobster coral. (See 
Plate III.) 

Egg Baskets aux Huitres 

Take as many eggs as required, boil them hard 
and cut them in halves longways ; remove the yolks 
and pound them in a mortar with two dozen cooking 
oysters, some rich white sauce, in which a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon has been mixed and a tea-spoonful 
of anchovy sauce, also the strained oyster liquor and 
a sprinkling of cayenne ; put into a saucepan and 
hot them up. When all is well mixed, fill the cavi- 
ties with the mixture. Make some handles to each 
basket with parsley stalks and send to table piping 
hot. 



Fish Balls k la Nouveaut^ 

Take some salmon or remains of turbot or brill. 
Pound in a mortar with butter till quite smooth, 
then make it into round balls the size of a billiard- 



FISH 23 

ball or rather less. Roll them in beaten egg and 
breadcrumbs ; fry ; after which roll some in finely 
powdered lobster coral, some in very finely powdered 
and dried parsley, and some in truffle peelings. 
Arrange them in assorted colours in a pyramid 
s^arnished with watercress. 



Lax Savoury k la Harlequin 

Take some dried lax, pound it in a mortar with 
some butter (a quarter of a pound of each), add a 
little pepper ; mould into small round balls the size of 
a golf-ball. Roll them in beaten egg and crumbs 
and fry them. Have ready separately some very 
finely powdered parsley, some powdered lobster coral, 
some yolk of hard-boiled egg and some hard-boiled 
white of egg passed through the sieve. Roll balls as 
soon as fried, some in the parsley, some in the coral, 
and some in the white and yolk of egg. Arrange 
them in a mound, assorting the colours gracefully. 



Lobster Chartreuse 

Line a plain round mould thinly with pale aspic 
jelly. Have some stiff aspic and mix with cream 
and put on ice, and when stiff cut into half-inch 
squares ; also have some red aspic jelly made stiff* 
enough to cut into squares the same size as the white. 
Make some devices at the bottom of the mould as in 
plate. 

Then arrange the squares of jelly in alternate 



24 COOKERY A LA MODE 

colours like a chess-board round the mould, sticking 
them to the mould with a little half-melted aspic. 
Stand on ice, and when thoroughly cold fill up the 
centre with lobster cream made by pounding the 
meat of a lobster in the mortar with a table-spoonful 
of anchovy sauce, a little cayenne, the lobster coral 
pounded, half a pint of stiffly whipped cream and 
a gill of liquid aspic jelly. Mix all thoroughly 
and add a little cochineal. Decorate the centre of the 
op with a wreath of chervil sprinkled with lobster 
coral, with two or three small radishes and cucumber 
cut into pea-shapes. Garnish with a cucumber salad 
sprinkled with lobster coral. 



Lobster a la Kitchener 

Take some little lobster moulds and line them 
with aspic jelly, into which some lobster coral has 
been sprinkled, then take a small lobster, and pound 
the flesh in a mortar. Mix it with cream and aspic 
and a few drops of essence of anchovy ; also a little 
cochineal to make it a good colour. Fill the little 
moulds with these and put on ice. When ready to 
turn out, arrange them round a salad thickly sauced 
with a thick mayonnaise garnished with beetroot 
and cucumber alternately. 

This dish is very attractive with lobster cutlets 
in aspic, arranging the cutlets round the salad and 
placing the little lobster moulds on the top of the 
salad. Garnish with chopped aspic sprinkled with 
green chopped aspic. 



FISH 25 

Lobster a la Newmarket 

Mask some jockey cap moulds ^ with pale aspic 
jelly and put on ice. Make some aspic cream in 
different colours — red, pink, yellow, brown, blue, 
white — and fill each of the caps with one colour. 
When set, turn out and cut each colour into four 
sections, then fill the caps with four of the quarters, 
putting alternately two colours into each mould. 
Pour in half a teaspoonful of liquid aspic, so that the 
quarters may adhere. Then cut out a little hole in 
each jelly and fill in with lobster cream. Put on ice 
till required to turn out, and arrange them on a bed 
of green chopped aspic. (See Plate III.) 

Lobster Mould a la United Service 

Get a Union Jack bordure mould, and fill it, 
after masking it with aspic, with pounded lobster 
flavoured with anchovy and cayenne, mixed with 
cream and aspic. The pattern of the flags must be 
carried out in aspic creams, red, white, and blue, 
Damson blue must be used for the blue colour. 

The centre can be filled with either a mayonnaise 
or cucumber cut into pea-shapes and masked with 
green mayonnaise. (See Plate XIV.) 

Mackerel k la Venitienne 

Remove the heads, tails, and centre bones of a 
couple of mackerel, cut them into neat pieces and 

* These moulds are to be obtained at Jones Brothers, Down St , 
Piccadilly, W. 



26 COOKERY A LA MODE 

bake them in a buttered tin. Arrange them en couronne 
on a dish when cooked. Take some pale stock, add 
a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, stir in the 
yolk of an ^^%, some butter and a little lemon-juice to 
taste ; stir over the fire till it is hot, but not boiling ; 
add some chopped parsley and tarragon leaves and 
a table-spoonful of claret and pour over the fish. 



Mussels k la Gourmet 

Take some good veal gravy and a piece of butter 
the size of a pigeon's ^^^, a spoonful of walnut ket- 
chup and a table-spoonful of claret. Season with 
cayenne or salt. Then stew the mussels in this 
sauce till done. Serve in little china or silver shells 
garnished with beetroot. 

Mussels Stewed 

They must be washed in several waters, then put 
in a stewpan and covered close. Let them stew 
till the shells open, then pick out the fish and look 
under their tongues to see if there be a small crab, 
and if there be one throw it away ; the tough mem- 
brane under the tongue must be picked off. Then the 
mussels are put into a stewpan, adding to every 
quart of fish half a pint of the liquor which has been 
strained through a sieve. Roll some butter and flour 
and stew gently. Lay toasted bread in the dish, and 
pour the mussels on to it. 



FISH 27 

Oyster Aigrettes 

Take some oysters, cut off the beards and cover 
them with batter made as follows : — Beat up a table- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, one of salad oil, and a little 
cold water, with the yolk of one egg, a small tea- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce and a dust of cayenne 
pepper ; then work in sufficient flour to make, with 
the addition of more water, as much batter as required. 
The batter should be of the consistency of thick 
cream. Beat up the whites of two eggs to a froth 
and stir into the batter. Roll each oyster in this 
and fry, and send to table very hot and few at a 
time. Instead of using water in the first instance, the 
strained liquor from the oysters may be used. (See 
Plate IV.) 

Oyster Baskets 

Make some puff paste and line thinly some 
dariole moulds (as many as are required), and bake 
them ; when ready, put in the following mixture : — 
Take as many oysters as will be required according 
to the number of cases — the deep-sea oysters are very 
good for this dish ; reserve the oyster liquor, cut off 
the hard pieces and beard, and put them into the 
liquor and bring to the boil ; then strain off the liquor. 
Take a gill of milk and mix with it two large table- 
spoonfuls of flour till smooth, then add the oyster 
liquor, a tea-spoonful of anchovy, a tea-spoonful of 
lemon-juice, one gill of cream, a little cayenne ; 
place on the fire and cook till nearly boiling ; keep 



28 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Stirring all the time till it is of the consistency of 
cream. Stir in a pat of butter quickly and then 
place the oysters in the hot sauce and fill the baskets. 
Have some of the paste mixed with fine parsley 
twisted into the shape of handles ; bake, and put 
over the baskets. 

Oyster Patties a la Napoli 

Take two dozen deep-sea oysters, wash them in 
warm water, mince them finely, then put them into 
a stewpan with a few sliced truffles. Mince some 
parsley and marjoram very finely and add them to 
the oysters, with pepper and salt to taste. 

Make a light sauce with flour and the yolk of an 
egg and mix it with the other ingredients. 

Have ready some nicely baked patty cases made 
of puff paste with lids to them. Fill the cases with 
the mixture in the stewpan. When cooked, serve very 
hot or qm'te cold. (See Plate IV.) 

Oysters k la Prince Edward 

Take some deep-sea oysters, drain away the liquid. 
Place in a saute-pan a good lump of butter. Beat 
up an egg, season with a trifle of cayenne, and 
dip the oysters into the egg and then into biscuit 
powder. 

Make the butter in the saute-pan boiling, then 
drop in the oysters and fry them till they are a pale 
gold colour, and serve them piled up in a pyramid 
as quickly as possible. 



PLATE IV 




1. Prawns montes au Nat'Jrel. 4. Oyster Patties a la Napoli. 

2. Savoury Haddock Patties. 5 Lcbsier Salads. 

3. Smelts Fried 6. Oyster Aigrettes. 



FISH 29 

Oyster Rissolettes 

Warm as many oysters as are required in their 
own liquor for two minutes, having first taken off 
their beards. Strain the liquor, make a thickening 
with flour and butter, and put it into a saucepan with 
the oyster liquor. When it thickens, add two spoon- 
fuls of white stock and the same of cream. Now 
mince the oysters and mix them into the sauce, which 
should be thick enough to form a paste. Season 
with a dust of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of anchovy 
and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Have some 
puff paste rolled as thin as possible, cut it into little 
ovals and put a tea-spoonful of the oyster mixture 
into each ; fold them over and brush over with yolk 
of egg and crushed vermicelli ; bake in a quick oven. 
Serve with fried parsley and small quarters of lemons. 

Iced Oyster Souffle 

Take two dozen small oysters ; mince them, and 
rub them through a wire sieve. Blanch and beard 
a dozen sauce oysters, and cut each into four pieces. 
Put two ounces of flour and one ounce of butter 
into a stewpan, and mix well together over the fire ; 
add a gill of the oyster liquor, and stir till it all 
thickens. 

Put this sauce and the pounded oysters into a 
mortar and pound all together, adding two yolks of 
eggs one at a time, a little salt, cayenne pepper, a 
gill of cream, and half a pint of whipped aspic jelly. 
When these are well mixed beat the whites of three 



30 COOKERY A LA MODE 

eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them into the mixture 
very lightly, then put in the oysters. Butter a 
mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with buttered 
paper, and steam gently for half an hour ; then turn 
out, when cold, into a mould lined with aspic jelly, 
the same size as first mould. 

Garnish with chopped aspic, chervil leaves, and 
cherry tomatoes. 

Oysters a la St. Pierre 

Take some oyster moulds (which can only be 
bought of Jones Brothers, of Down Street), and line 
them with very clear pale fish aspic. Place in each 
mould a good native, and finish the mould with 
a puree of pounded lobster coral mixed with aspic. 
Place on ice to set, then turn out on a cool border 
made of Brown Breadcrumbs soaked in lemon, a 
little cayenne, and some pale aspic jelly. Garnish 
with sliced lemon and watercress. 

Prawns montes au Naturel 

Take a large lemon, cut off one end so that the 
lemon will stand, and cover it all over with prawns, 
sticking the hard part of the antennae into the lemon. 
Fill up all interstices with parsley ; round the base 
place a layer of parsley, then rows of prawns to fill 
up the dish. (See Plate IV.) 

Prawn Jelly 

Take a mould and ornament the top with truffles 
cut in crescents and stars ; then put in a layer of 



FISH 31 

white aspic cream. When set, chemise the mould 
with red savoury aspic jelly. Put on ice, and when 
the jelly is set, arrange prawns round the sides in 
crescents, with a little round of truffle in the crescent. 
Place on ice again, and when set up fill the centre 
with prawns and aspic till the mould is full. When 
served, decorate the base with iced mayonnaise. 



Prawn Rissoles 

Take half a pint ot prawns, shell them, and put 
one ounce and a half of butter into a saucepan with 
one ounce and a half of flour, and a quarter pint of 
water. Stir over the fire till it is a smooth paste. 
Have ready the prawns chopped, stir them into the 
paste, add salt and pepper to taste, a table-spoonful 
of lemon-juice, and a few drops of anchovy. Stir all 
well together, and then turn out on a dish to get 
cold. Let it stand for a couple of hours ; then make 
it into little balls. Flour them over, then egg and 
breadcrumb, and fry in very hot fat. Mayonnaise 
sauce can be handed with them. 

Garnish with fried parsley and lemon croutons. 



Red Mullet a la Pasha 

(Rougets a la Pasha) 

Soak the fish for about an hour in a mixture of 
salad oil, pepper and salt, finely chopped parsley, 
and a bead of garlic. After they have soaked, clean 
the insides, and mix into this marinade, and work 



32 COOKERY A LA MODE 

in enough breadcrumbs mixed with milk to make 
a paste. Work this mixture through the gills into 
each fish. Wrap them up in grease-proof paper, 
well buttered, and broil over the fire. 



Red Mullet a la Livorno 

Place the mullets on a buttered dish, sprinkle 
with a little cayenne and lemon-juice, cover closely 
with oiled paper, and cook in a moderately hot 
oven till done. Chop up two shalots, fry them in 
butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, a bay-leaf, and a 
few sprays of thyme till lightly browned ; then add 
by degrees half a pint of weak stock, a table-spoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of essence of 
anchovy, and half a wineglass of Marsala. Stir over 
the fire till the sauce has thickened ; then let it 
simmer for from six to eight minutes, dish up and 
pour the sauce over it. 



Bombes of Salmon and Cucumber 

Take a slice of salmon weighing rather less than 
a pound, and cook in the oven with buttered paper 
over it. When cooked, place on a dish to get cold. 
Take the skin and the piece of bone that is in the 
centre of the slice and put them into a little stock with 
a small piece of onion, carrot, celery, parsley and 
thyme ; let this simmer for three-quarters of an hour, 
then strain it into three-quarters of a pint of veloute 



FISH 33 

sauce into which a Httle cayenne and anchovy sauce 
have been put with an ounce of leaf gelatine ; reduce 
these till quite thick, then add a gill of cream ; let 
boil, and strain into a stewpan. 
• Next cut up the salmon into small dice-shaped 
pieces and chop up some cucumber smaller still. 
Mix them together and put them into a stewpan 
with a quarter of the white sauce, then put it on ice 
to get cold, and when cold and set, roll it into balls 
or bombs the size of a golf-ball, and mask these with 
the remainder of the sauce into which a little liquid 
aspic has been put, sprinkle them with powdered 
lobster coral, dish them as a pile of cannon-balls, and 
garnish with chopped aspic. 



Salmon en Fete 

Boil a small salmon or grilse, putting an onion and 
a slice of bacon in the water it is boiled in. Tie it up 
with broad tape to keep it in shape. Remove the fins 
before boiling, and the skin as soon as it is cooked ; 
then place it on the dish it is to be served on, and 
cover it entirely with thick green aspic mayonnaise 
cream. When it has all set and is completely covered, 
place across the back three strips or saddles of stiff 
aspic jelly at equal distances. The strips should be 
an inch and a half wide and eight inches long ; the 
centre piece should be coloured red and the others 
respectively white and blue. Make an edging to 
these saddles with tiny parsley-leaves. Take a swan 
mould and fill it with a mixture of cornflour and 

D 



34 COOKERY A LA MODE 

gelatine and stand it on the red saddle, fastening it 
on with gelatine ; at the head and tail place two shells 
made in the same way as the swan, only in shell moulds 
and turned out. Arrange asparagus fern to represent 
seaweed on either side of the shells, and place a chaplet 
of chervil-leaves round the swan's neck. In the head of 
the salmon stick a silver hatelet piercing two prawns 
and a truffle. Make a border of chopped aspic, and 
place round, and beyond iced mousseline sauce. 
Fill little lobster moulds with lobster cream and 
arrange round. (See Frontispiece.) 

Salmon Puddings Romano 

Take some little fish moulds and line them with 
very clear aspic jelly. Put in a layer of lobster cream 
aspic and then fill in with salmon and anchovy force- 
meat mixed with a red mayonnaise sauce. Place on 
ice and turn out on a border of pale-green aspic jelly, 
and in the centre put some dressed cucumber cut in 
pea-shapes. 



Salmon a la Verdi 

Boil half a pound of salmon and put it into a stew- 
pan with a glass of sauterne and let it simmer till 
cooked. When cooked, pound it in a mortar with a 
teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a dust of cayenne, 
a finely minced shalot and a table-spoonful of Alle- 
mande sauce. Pass through a tammy sieve and add a 
gill of whipped cream. Line some little shell-moulds 



FISH 35 

with aspic ; when set, add the salmon cream and 
place on ice for an hour, then turn them out 

Have some cucumbers cut into pieces two inches 
long, notching the peel to give it a striped look. 
Stand these on a dish, turn out the lobster from the 
shells and arrange one on each of the cucumbers in 
a circle. Have ready some little balls of lobster force- 
meat well rolled in lobster coral and place between 
the pieces of cucumber with the shells of salmon ; 
fill the centre with salad ; dress it over with green 
mayonnaise sprinkled with lobster coral, and garnish 
with croutons of aspic. (See Frontispiece.) 



Stuffed Sardines a la Proven^ale 

(Sardines Farcies) 

Put some very finely chopped spinach in a sauce- 
pan with a little salad oil, and cook till dry. Season 
with salt, nutmeg, and pepper, and one clove ; sprinkle 
with breadcrumbs, and moisten with milk. Cook 
over the fire till it becomes of a proper consistency, 
then remove from the fire and mix in two or three 
yolks of eggs and two or three chopped anchovies. 
Take off the heads and the pipe or guts of twenty 
sardines, split them open, salt them, and mask the 
insides with some of the spinach. Roll them up like 
barrels and fasten them with thread. 

Take a fire-proof plate, sprinkle it with a pinch of 
minced onion. Pour a very little oil over : place the 
sardines in a row and sprinkle them with raspings, 
moisten them with a little more oil, and cook 

D 2 



36 COOKERY A LA MODE 

them in the oven for twelve minutes and serve 
quickly. 



Sardines and Spinach 

Prepare spinach as in the other spinach recipes. 
Pound up with it a dozen sardines. Add salt, pepper 
and a trifle of cayenne. Arrange this flat on a dish 
and garnish with hard-boiled quarters of egg and 
rows of sardines on the top. 



Savoury k la Brighton 

Take some sardines, wipe the oil from them, roll a 
piece of bacon round them and fry them in batter, and 
pour over a thick Morny sauce. A little cream added 
to the sauce greatly improves it. Sprinkle a little 
coralline pepper and dried parsley over all. 



Savoury Finnan Haddock Patties 

Make some good puff-paste cases, spread 
anchovy butter all round inside, then put in some 
dried haddock which has been pounded with some 
butter and passed through a sieve. Make some batter 
as for cheese souffle flavoured slightly with cayenne, 
place it on the top of the cases, put in the oven 
and serve quickly. (See Plate IV.) 



FISH 37 

Shrimps k I'Espagnole 

(Spanish recipe) 

Cook half a pint of shrimps and six potatoes 
separately. Make a sauce with six g-reen tomatoes, 
a small onion chopped and a teaspoonful of pepper 
and fry in oil. 

Put a spoonful of vinegar into the water with 
the shrimps after they have been shelled for a couple 
of seconds, then mix them with the potatoes and 
sauce, and warm up all together ; arrange on a 
pyramid in the middle of the dish, and serve a little 
anchovy sauce in a tureen if liked. 

Smelts Fried, Sauce Tartare 

Before frying, draw the fish through the gills, and 
fasten the tails in the mouths and give one stitch 
with some cotton ; season with pepper and salt and 
roll in egg and breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling fat. 
Serve them arranged tastefully with quarters of lemon 
and fried parsley. Cut away the cotton before serving. 

Hand Tartare sauce with them. (See Plate IV.) 

Bombes of Sole a la Baltique 

Take four skinned and filleted soles, place them 
in a saut6-pan that has been well buttered, cover 
them with buttered paper and cook them in the 
oven. When cooked, place them on a dish to get 
cold ; put the bones of the fish in a saucepan and cook 
them over the fire with a small piece of carrot, an 



38 COOKERY A LA MODE 

onion, a little celery, a bouquet garni, and a bay- 
leaf ; cover with good pale stock and let it simmer 
for an hour. Strain this into a pint of good Bechamel 
sauce, in which an ounce of soaked gelatine has 
been put ; reduce this on the fire till of a good con- 
sistence, add a gill of good rich cream and let all 
boil together. Cut up the fillets of sole in small 
dice, and chop up a dozen small white mushrooms ; 
mix these with one-third of the sauce, adding 
pepper and salt to taste, and a dust of cayenne ; 
place on ice to get cold, then roll them into small balls. 
Take the remainder of the sauce, add a little liquid 
aspic to it, stir in thickly some powdered pistachio 
kernels, and mask the ba»lls with it. Dish up like a 
pile of cannon-balls ; garnish with chopped aspic and 
iced lobster sauce cut into little oblong blocks an inch 
and a half lono: and half an inch wide. 



Soles k la Dundonald 

Fillet as many soles as required, spread lobster 
butter on each mixed with a sprinkling of very fine 
breadcrumbs and minced parsley. Roll them up 
and place them in a French china baking-dish ; 
squeeze a little lemon-juice over, place buttered 
paper over all, and cook them in the oven for ten or 
twelve minutes. When cold, mask them alternately 
with green aspic mayonnaise and Cardinal mayon- 
naise. Dish them on a border of whiting forcemeat 
masked with white chaudfroid sauce, and in the 
centre place shredded lettuce and cucumber with 
salad dressing. (See Frontispiece.) 



FISH 39 



Fillets of Sole k la Rothschild 

Season some fillets of sole with lemon-juice, 
pepper, and salt ; cut each fillet in half, cut some 
carrots into the shape of corks, and roll each fillet 
round one of these, and tie them up in buttered 
paper. 

Put these rolls in a stewpan with a gill of sauterne 
and about half a pint of fish stock ; add a dust of 
salt and let these cook for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
then take them out and remove the carrots. Make 
a farce with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
mix it with a little stock in which the fish was cooked, 
and a table-spoonful of whipped cream, which 
stir in a stewpan till it boils ; then add some 
lobster spawn which has been pounded with butter ; 
let all this boil again, keeping it well stirred. Mix 
in the yolk of an egg when cool and pass through a 
sieve, then add a few minced prawns or oysters, and 
mix well and warm up ; garnish with crayfish and 
fried parsley. 

Tomato or oyster sauce should be handed with 
this fish. 

Sole k la Rouennaise 

Take a medium-sized sole, cut off the fins, head, 
and tail, and fillet it ; chop up the bones and skin 
very small ; add a little salt and take each fillet and 
spread thinly on half of it some lobster panada ; then 
fold the remaining piece over, sandwich fashion. 
Squeeze the juice of a lemon over the prepared 



40 COOKERY A LA MODE 

fillets ; cover them with buttered paper, and bake in 
the oven for ten minutes. Make a sauce of one 
ounce of butter and a dessert-spoonful of flour stirred 
together till it boils ; add a little lemon-juice, and a 
gill of cream, and strain it ; arrange the fillets en 
cercle. Mask them well with the sauce, and sprinkle 
lobster coral, parsley, and truffles, and grated hard- 
boiled eggs over alternately. Serve lobster quenelles 
in the centre. This dish can be made with oysters 
or mushrooms instead of lobster. 



Sole a la Stella 

Cook a fair-sized sole that has been filleted 
into cutlets ; cut them into points to resemble star 
points. Mask some with white aspic cream, and the 
others with green aspic cream. 

Arrange them in a silver dish in the form of a 
star, white and green alternately, leaving a small 
round place in the centre, in which stand the heart 
of a lettuce ; put chopped aspic in between the points 
of the star and all round the dish. (See Plate V.) 



Timbale of Fish 

Pick the fish from skin and bone, after it has been 
cooked, cut it into fine dice and mix about half a pound 
of fish with rather more than a gill of white sauce; 
season with salt and pepper, a little chopped parsley, 
and lemon-juice. Mix two whole eggs thoroughly 
into it, put it in a plain greased timbale-mould 



PLATE V. 








ir 



^ 



1. Truite Saumonee a la Norvegienne. 2. Sole a la Stella. 

3. Cutlets a la Rouge et Noir. 4. Medallions of Foie Gras a la Rosiere. 

5. Whiting a la Russe. ^^'^^rr^^r^ 

( P 'Tli Lie] 



FISH 41 

Twist a buttered paper over it, and steam (do not let 
it boil) for three-quarters of an hour ; then turn it 
on to a dish, and pour over it a sauce made by frying 
a small minced onion in a little butter till on the 
point of turning brown, mix this with a table-spoonful 
of flour that has been mixed with a gill of stock and 
very little milk. Stir till it boils, then strain and 
return to the stewpan to warm up ; adding a little salt, 
pepper, a few drops of anchovy essence, and a squeeze 
of lemon-juice. Morny sauce can be served with this 
instead of the above. 



Truite Saumonde a la Norvdgienne 

Make an ornamental rice socle ; then place on it a 
layer of white aspic jelly well whipped ; place round 
on the jelly very small dariole moulds filled with 
aspic and ornamented on the top with peas and carrots, 
the carrots cut into pea-shapes. On the centre of the 
socle lay the trout boiled and skinned except tail 
and head, place strips of red, white, and blue jelly side- 
ways across the trout ; on the head make a fleur-de-lis 
in yellow aspic cream and in the middle of the back a 
crown of same and a fleur-de-lis on the tail. Garnish 
with cut aspic. (See Plate V.) 



Turban of Trout 

Make a forcemeat of trout with aspic and cream., 
colour some green and some salmon colour, line a 
mould alternately with it, each layer about two inches 



42 COOKERY A LA MODE 

thick ; press it well against the sides, leaving a space 
in the middle. Fill this space with some cucumber 
cut in slices and soaked in mayonnaise in which there 
is plenty of aspic ; place it on ice, and when ready to 
turn out decorate it with little balls of lobster cream 
and cucumber cut in pea-shape round the base. (See 
Plate III.) 



Turbot a la Grimaldi 

Take three pounds of turbot and cut into cutlets 
of equal size. Fry the cutlets carefully in salad oil 
into which has been minced a very small quantity of 
parsley and onion. When cooked, arrange the cutlets 
en couronne and cover each with a sauce differing in 
taste and colour, such as Dutch green sauce, tomato 
sauce, white sauce, and yellow cream sauce. 



Turbot a la H61oi'se 

Choose a thick chicken turbot, make an incision 
in the side as if you were going to divide the thick- 
ness like a pocket; make a stuffing with chopped 
lobster and cream, a few drops of anchovy sauce, and 
a sprinkling of cayenne ; insert the stuffing in the 
incision. Then, after rubbing the outside with salt, 
put the fish into the fish-kettle, with sufficient boiling 
water to cover it. Let it boil up again, then draw 
the fish-kettle to one side to simmer very slowly till 
done. When done, drain it from the water, sprinkle 



FISH 43 

lobster coral over the white side, garnish with parsley 
and lemon, and serve iced lobster sauce in a tureen. 



Turbot k la Mosai'que 

Take three pounds of turbot or brill, cut it into 
small neat cutlets of equal size. Brown them in the 
best salad oil, in which put a very little minced 
parsley and onion. Great care and attention is re- 
quired for the frying of the cutlets, as they require to 
be constantly turned till cooked. 

When cooked, each cutlet is covered with a 
different sauce in taste and colour. This is a very 
pretty dish if the cutlets are tastefully arranged. 
It is best cold and garnished with pale aspic. The 
following sauces are best suited to serve with it : — 

Sauce piquante (brown). 

Dutch green sauce. 

Tomato sauce. 

Red caper sauce. 

Yellow cream sauce. 



Whiting k la Russe 

Take in weight a pound of whiting without 
skin or bones, pound and pass through a sieve ; 
take three parts of its weight in panada made with 
rice flour, a little salt, and a piece of butter. Pound 
it well in a mortar and add by degrees the pounded 
whiting and half a pound of butter, four yolks of eggs, 
and a little cayenne ; work it all well together. Fill 



44 COOKERY A LA MODE 

a buttered border mould with some of this and 
poach it in fish stock. Make small quenelles of the 
remainder of the forcemeat and poach them in salted 
water with the bones of the fish ; make an extract 
from two handfuls of mushroom trimmings and two 
glasses of sauterne and gradually add to it a pint 
of velout^ sauce ; reduce all this and strain. Make 
a garnish composed of picked crayfish or prawns, 
button mushrooms, soft roes of herrings, and a few 
whole truffles ; when ready to serve, add either cray- 
fish or lobster butter, which pour over the garnish 
and dish all up on the border of forcemeat, which 
mask over with the sauce, and arrange the halves of 
hard-boiled eggs round the cage. (See Plate V.) 



ENTREES 



Prepare then a feast, 

And none of the least, 

For we will be merry," quoth he ' 

Robin Hood 



A feast must be without a fault. 
And if 'tis not right 'tis naught' 



PLATE VI. 




'1. Pressed Beef a la Cornwall. 
2. Boudin a la Kaiser. 



3. Chartreuse a la Alexandra, 

4. Chaudfroid a la Homburg. 



IC 



ENTREES AND THEIR MODES 
OF COOKING 

The primary step in cooking is that everything 
should be scrupulously clean, and every cook should 
be persuaded to consider ' cleanliness the god of the 
kitchen.' The importance of clean saucepans and 
cooking utensils should be impressed on all cooks. 
And though I do not intend in this volume to give 
recipes for plain joints, yet the knowledge of the best 
way of roasting, boiling, frying, simmering, stewing, 
broiling, and baking is necessary to aid cooks in making 
dishes from the recipes I am giving, as they are the 
rudiments and foundation of all cookery. 

For roasting, if the range is an open one, the first 
thing to do is to get up a clear fire, which should be 
kept up during the process ; though great care must 
be taken when putting on fresh coals not to let any 
fall into the dripping-pan. 

The dripping-pan should be placed under the 
meat before the meat is hung up, with a little good 
melted dripping all ready to begin basting with. Then 
hang the meat on the bottle-jack, the biggest part 
downwards. The joint must be placed close to the 
fire at first starting and basted with the hot fat ; then 
after a quarter of an hour draw back the joint a little, 
but keep basting the meat — the more it is basted the 
better it will be. The average time for cooking beef 



48 COOKERY A LA MODE 

and mutton is fifteen minutes to every pound of 
meat. The smaller the joint or bird, the quicker it 
should be roasted. Lamb requires twenty minutes 
for each pound, pork and veal half an hour for each 
pound up to nine or ten pounds. The colour of 
the joint should be noticed ; if pale, put it nearer 
the fire. 

The gravy must now be seen to. Leave the joint 
hanging and take up the dripping-pan and carefully 
pour over all the fat into a basin till the discoloured 
dregs are visible ; pour into the pan a pint of boiling 
water, and wash and rub with a spoon the dripping- 
pan in this liquid. Scrape all the brown specks into 
the water and then strain the whole through a fine 
strainer into a saucepan ; skim off all grease, and place 
the saucepan on the side of the fire to keep hot but 
not boil. Then the joint must be taken down and 
dished, and the gravy should be poured into the dish. 

Game and poultry require a fierce and clear fire 
and constant basting. 

Roasting in a close range has a little different 
treatment, and twenty minutes to the pound of meat 
should be allowed. 

For this there should be a double dripping-pan, 
with hot water placed in the lower pan and the meat 
laid on a trivet in the upper one. Turn the wrong 
side upwards at first, turning it over when the meat 
is about half done. It should be placed on the 
hottest part of the oven for five minutes, so that the 
outside may harden and prevent the pieces going 
into the gravy. It should then be removed to the 
middle of the lower compartment of the oven if 



PL A TE VJI. 




A, Tournebroche a Fumee ; B, Clockwork portion of above ',.■ <^-^^' ^ Q<y 
C, Eureka Wire Saucepan-lining ; D, When in use. P ■ J B L I 



ENTRIES 49 

fairly hot, and be thoroughly basted. As soon as the 
outside is browned it should be covered with greased 
paper, which must be removed just before serving and 
the joint frothed in the usual way. 

In cooking poultry or game in a close range, place 
them breast downwards in the pan, not on the trivet^ 
and cover the breasts with dripping an inch thick and 
place a good-sized piece in their insides, as that will 
render them tender and succulent. 

If meat is solid and without bone, it will take 
twenty minutes to the pound to roast. In summer 
it takes a little longer time than in winter, and frozen 
meat should be kept in a warm kitchen for three 
hours before it is roasted. 

Whilst roasting, meat should be protected from 
a draught, and therefore a screen should be placed 
round it. Liberal basting makes all the difference. 
There is a scientifically constructed machine for 
roasting called the ' Royal Roaster,' which I can 
most confidently recommend. The principle is : the 
steam arising from whatever is being cooked is again 
absorbed into the food, and consequently this roaster is 
self-basting (see Plate 1 1.). As there is no evaporation, 
no drying up, or burning, there will be no shrinkage 
or waste as with an open pan. After the roaster is 
put in the oven no attention is required — no watch- 
ing, no basting or turning — it is most friendly to 
lazy cooks as well as a great help to every cook ; is 
made in several sizes and is very inexpensive. For 
those persons who do not mind expense and like 
everything roasted in front of the fire, especially 
poultry and game, which I always insist on for 

E 



50 COOKERY A LA MODE 

myself, the ' Tournebroche a Fumee ' is invaluable, an 
illustration of which is given. (See Plate VII.) It 
roasts and bastes at the same time ; it is wound up by 
clockwork ; the bird turns round and a spoon revolves 
and bastes. It is an admirable contrivance, but it is 
too expensive for most establishments, as the lowest 
price is 3/. some shillings. Anyone can see it at work 
at the Atmospheric Churn Company in Bond Street, 
and I often go and look at it from sheer envy, as I 
do not possess one. 

The test of a joint being well cooked is that the 
steam draws to the fire. 

Boiling. — To boil, the great factor is not to let the 
meat boil. When the water in a saucepan bubbles at 
the top and steams, it is boiling. 

Simmering is keeping the water nearly boiling, 
little tiny bubbles every now and then coming up at 
the edges, and it should never be allowed to go beyond 
this state. In boiling mutton it should be put into 
fast boiling water and allowed to boil for five minutes 
to make the outside hard and to prevent the juices 
escaping. Just sufficient cold water should be added 
to reduce the temperature, and then brought again to 
the boil, and when on the point of boiling skimmed 
carefully^ then drawn to the side of the stove and let 
simmer slowly. 

The meat should only be just covered with water. 
Boiling time ought to be from a quarter of an hour 
to twenty minutes to the pound of meat from the 
time the water boils. 

Bacon, pork, and ham should be put into cold 
water and brought gradually to simmering-point. 



ENTREES 51 

Turkeys, fowls, rabbits, &c., should be placed in warm 
water and then simmered. 

Frying. — The first thing in frying is to have a 
very clear bright fire and to see that the frying-pan 
is perfectly clean. A deep frying-pan such as the 
* Crown Fryer '^ (see Plate II.); the bottom is made of 
asbestos, so that nothing can burn in it, and it has, as 
will be seen, a wire fryer inside, so that what is fried 
can be lifted out quickly. When fat is hissing in the 
pan, nothing should be put into it until it leaves off 
and smokes. 

All things egg-and-bread-crumbed should be made 
two hours before being fried ; stale bread should 
always be used for bread-crumbing. Meat should be 
frequently turned and the pan shaken during frying 
to promote evaporation of the watery components. 

Everything fried should be drained the moment 
it is taken out of the pan ; a wire sieve with a piece of 
blotting-paper placed over is the best drainer. 

Stewing is the most economical and best mode of 
cookery if properly managed ; it has this advantage, 
that pieces of meat which are in any way tough by 
stewing become tender and nutritious. The French 
are very much given to the use of the stewpan. In 
all good stewing the water should never be thrown 
away, as it contains nearly as much nutriment as the 
meat itself. To stew well, the meat should only be 
just covered with water ; so many cooks object to 
its slow process, as, if properly cooked, it takes many 
hours and in some cases from one to two days. 

* As the asbestos heats very quickly it is apt to get so hot, that 
when removed from the stove it should be placed on an iron stand. 

E 2 



52 COOKERY A LA MODE 

The old-fashioned French country way of stew- 
ing is the acme of perfection. All the ingredients 
are placed in an earthenware jar, with a tight-fitting 
lid, with very little water. Then place it in the hot 
ashes of a wood fire, where it can be left for hours. 
I always stew in the Gourmet boilers, standing them 
in a saucepan of boiling water on the stove or in the 
oven, as the case may be. (See Plate XVII.) 

Grilling and broiling is cooking over the top 
of a hot clear fire. The gridiron should be put close 
down to the fire, and gradually raised as cooking 
proceeds, to diminish the heat. 

Broiled meat is more savoury than roast. The 
surface becomes charred, and a dark-coloured crust 
is formed, which delays the evaporation of the juices, 
and causes the meat to be as tender as roast, but it 
requires the most attentive cooking. The fire must 
not be too hot, or the meat would be scorched ; but 
it must be quick and clear enough to brown the 
meat and prevent the gravy escaping. The gridiron 
must be perfectly clean and dry, and should be 
rubbed with dripping before it is heated at the 
fire. 

No salt should be thrown over a chop till it is 
cooked, though it ought to be slightly peppered. 
Steaks and chops must be constantly turned whilst 
grilling to preserve the gravy. 

Steaming is for delicate preparations. Whatever 
has to be steamed should be prepared as for boiling, 
then placed in the steamer, with the lid tightly 
closed, over a saucepan full of boiling water, kept 
boiling, and more water added as it boils away. 



ENTREES 53 

Braising is a process in which the meat and ingre- 
dients should be placed in a closed stewpan called a 
brasiere, which is a pan with a cover made to hold 
live embers in, so that there is heat above as well as 
below. A few slices of fat bacon should be put at 
the bottom of the pan, and trimmings of veal or 
other meat, rinds of bacon, some vegetables, such as 
onions and carrots, cut into slices, a bouquet garni, 
&c., over which place what is to be braised, and then 
the lid closed hermetically so as to allow no steam 
to escape. 

Stuffings, Forcemeats, &c. 

These preparations, whether in the form of stuffing, 
forcemeats, or balls, make a considerable part of good 
cooking by the flavour they impart to whatever dish 
they are added to if properly compounded. 

Exact rules for the quantities of which they are 
composed cannot easily be given, but the following 
remarks may be useful and practice will soon give the 
knowledge in mixing them to the taste. 

According to what is required, the following list 
should be selected from, taking care that the most 
pungent articles must not be used in such quantity as 
the others. No one flavour should predominate, and 
if several dishes are served at the same time, there 
should be a marked variety in the taste of the force- 
meat as well as in the gravies. 

It should be consistent enough to eat with a 
knife but not dry nor heavy. 



54 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Forcemeat ingredients are : — 

Essential Accessory 

Cold fowl or veal. i Oysters. 

Scraped ham or tongue. Anchovy. 

Fat bacon. Tarragon. 

Beef suet. Savoury. 

Crumbs of bread. Pennyroyal. 

Parsley. Knotted marjoram. 

White pepper. Thyme. 

Salt. Basil. 

Nutmeg. Yolks of hard eggs. 
Yolk and white of eggs well beaten Garlic shalot. 

to bind the mixture. Chives and cloves. 

The first column contains the articles of which 
the forcemeat may be made without any striking 
flavour, and to those may be added some of the 
different ingredients from the second column to vary 
the taste. 

A good forcemeat is made as follows : — Mince 
fine half a pound of veal or fowl previously cooked 
and four ounces of ham ; add one teacupful of grated 
bread and moisten with an egg, season with a little 
nutmeg, lemon, and white pepper. 

Perhaps I have written too lengthily upon subjects 
which have been already described in other culinary 
works ; but to make entrees and savouries the know- 
ledge of what I have written is most necessary, as 
they cannot be perfectly cooked without a thorough 
knowledge of the rudiments of cookery any more 
than any one can excel in art and science without 
rudimental knowledge, and the entrees' recipes here 
given cannot be successfully cooked without it. 



ENTRIES 55 

Pressed Beef a la Cornwall 

Take about eight to ten pounds of brisket of 
beef, cut it as nearly square as possible, bone it, and 
where the bone is taken out mix in two table- 
spoonfuls of brown sugar and one of salt and lay well 
in. Have ready a large stewpan, put the bones at 
the bottom of it with two shalots, two onions stuck 
with three cloves, three carrots, one turnip, two bay- 
leaves, a head of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. 
Lay the beef on the top, and just cover with water ; 
bring to the boil, and then let it simmer slowly for 
eight hours. When cooked, take it up and place it 
between two dishes, with a two-pound weight on it. 
When cold, trim it neatly all round, keeping it as 
square as possible. Glaze it, and decorate it with 
aspic jelly as in illustration. It is best to tie broad 
tape across the beef both ways before putting it into 
the pot, it is easier to lift out, and keeps it all 
together better. (See Plate VI.) 

Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms 

Take a piece of rump steak, cut it into rounds the 
size of a five-shilling piece three-quarters of an inch 
thick, and trim. Melt some butter in a baking-tin, 
lay the fillets in this, and let them stand in a warm 
place for an hour or two. Then take them out and 
fry them in very hot butter or good dripping, turning 
them so as to let both sides colour. 

Make some Italian sauce, into which a little 
tomato ketchup and a liqueur-glass of sherry has been 



56 COOKERY A LA MODE 

added. Take half a pound of button mushrooms neatly- 
trimmed and washed. Let the sauce cook till the 
mushrooms are done ; add the juice of half a lemon, 
pour the sauce on the dish, heap the mushrooms in 
the centre, and arrange the fillets round in a crown 
shape. Place on each cutlet a little pat of maitre- 
d'hotel butter. 



Beefsteak Pudding 

Make a paste with six ounces of chopped suet and 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, butter a pudding- 
basin, and line it with the suet. Rub the rump steak 
with a clove of garlic ; then cut it into small pieces, 
also a quarter of a pound of ox kidney. Put a good 
handful of flour on a board, well pepper and salt it, 
then roll each piece of steak and kidney in it ; add 
some stock, cover with paste, tie over with a buttered 
and floured cloth, and boil for four hours. A few 
oysters are a great improvement added to the pudding. 

Boudin a la Kaiser 

Take the flesh of a boiled chicken, remove all 
skin and gristle, and place it in a mortar. Have 
some good veloute sauce, and mix in with it pepper 
and salt to taste. Pound all well together, and rub 
through a fine wire sieve. Then put it back in 
the mortar and pour on half a pint of cream and 
half a pint of liquefied aspic. Blend all well together, 
then place it in a deep plain-border mould and put 
on ice. 



ENTREES 57 

Have some sweetbreads, blanch them and cut 
them into rounds the size of a five-shilHng piece. 
Simmer them gently in a little Allemande sauce. 
Season them to taste, put them between two plates 
to flatten them. When cold, mask them thickly with 
pink aspic cream, trim them neatly, and alternately 
ornament with little dots of truffle and white of egg. 

Turn the chicken boudin out of the border, fill 
the interior with small salad or a tomato salad, place 
the pink breads all over the top, and have some peas 
which have been coated on one side with aspic and 
place them in a line round where the breads and 
chicken join. 

The outside of the chicken border can be orna- 
mented with truffle if wished. (See Plate VI.) 



Ballettes a la Buller 

Take two sets of calves' brains that have been 
well cleansed and all skin and fibre removed. Mince 
them roughly and cook them in Supreme sauce in 
which a few chopped truffles and pistachio kernels 
have been mixed. Let the mixture get quite cold. 
Have ready some aspic jelly, portions of which must 
be coloured differently, red, pink, yellow, blue, brown^ 
white, orange. Line thickly some ball moulds with 
a different coloured jelly in each, and when firm fill up 
with the brain mixture, place on ice, and when properly 
frozen turn out and arrange en pyrmnide. Garnish 
with pale aspic and chervil sprays. 



58 COOKERY A LA MODE 

• Calves' Brains a TEpicure 

Soak the brains in vinegar and water and put in 
a little piece of thyme. Fry some round pieces of 
bread. Place some of the brains, after draining them, 
on each piece of fried bread, make a little hole in 
each piece of brain and place a piece of red tongue 
in each. Pour black butter over and serve. The 
black butter is made by taking one ounce of butter and 
melting it in a frying-pan till it turns a rich brown 
colour, then add half a teaspoonful of chopped capers, 
half a teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce, and the same 
quantity of mushroom ketchup and a little pepper. 
This can be used thickened if preferred. 

Calves' Feet a I'ltalia 

Take some calves' feet, bone them as far as the 
joint. Put them into warm water to wash away the 
blood, then blanch them thoroughly and let them 
cool, then stew them in a blanc made as follows : — 
Half a pound of suet and half a pound of fat bacon 
cut into dice, a quarter of a pound of butter, the 
juice of half a lemon, one onion, a bouquet garni, 
and water enough to cover them. When the feet are 
done, drain and serve them very hot, well masked 
with a rich parsley and butter sauce. 



Calf's-head Fritters 

Cut some neat slices from a cold calf's head. 
Mask them with a batter in which has been put two 



ENTREES 59 

table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. Fry a pale golden 
colour, dish up en pyrmnide^ sprinkle coralline pepper, 
and garnish with fried parsley and tiny brain-balls. 



Chartreuse k la Alexandra 

Chop up some tomatoes finely, flavour with a 
bead of garlic and a shalot, which have been rubbed 
through a sieve. Add half a pint of whipped aspic 
jelly and the same quantity of mayonnaise sauce. 

Have some hard-boiled eggs, the yolks and whites 
separately, stamped in rounds. Take a plain round 
mould and mask it with pale aspic, then arrange the 
rounds of ^^g into tiers, yellow and white alternately, 
till the mould is full. Here and there place a leaf of 
chervil. Put on the ice till set, then fill up the mould 
with the tomato mixture. Place again on ice till it is 
wanted, then turn out and decorate with small salad 
mixed with mayonnaise round. Arrange small 
cherry tomatoes round the top and sprinkle with 
finely chopped parsley. (See Plate VI.) 



Chartreuse a I'Echec 

Take a plain round mould and chemise it with 
pale aspic jelly, then cut some truffles into thin half- 
inch squares ; also make some cream aspic and cut into 
squares exactly the same size as the truffle squares. 
Arrange these squares with a little aspic jelly alter- 
nately round the mould, as in Plate. Decorate the top 
according to the illustration. Take a terrine of pate- 



6o COOKERY A LA MODE 

de-foie-gras, scraping off all the fat, and mask it all 
over with a Ravigote sauce thickened with aspic jelly. 
Put the foie-gras into the mould, fill up with pale 
savoury aspic jelly, place on ice for two or three hours, 
then turn out and garnish with clumps of whipped 
aspic. 

When truffles are found to be too expensive, the 
black square can be made of aspic cream coloured 
with Indian soy. (See Plate IX.) 

Chartreuse de Homard a la Randolph 

Line a chartreuse mould with aspic jelly very 
thinly. Make equal parts of tomato aspic and white 
aspic mixed with cream ; cut them into squares an 
inch square or stamp out in rounds the size of a 
florin ; place them alternately at the bottom of the 
mould with a little aspic, and, when set, place more of 
the squares or rounds alternately round the mould, 
fixing with a little more aspic, then put on ice to set. 
When thoroughly firm, fill up the interior of the mould 
with lobster cut up small and mixed with Devonshire 
cream, a little cayenne, and a few drops of anchovy 
sauce, also a little liquefied aspic. The mould should 
be thoroughly iced and then turned out ; sprinkle 
lobster coral over the top. Make some green butter, 
draw it through a dairy cloth to give it a curled 
appearance, and place it in little groups at equal dis- 
tances round the edge of the top with a crouton of 
aspic in between each, and in the centre place a little 
piece of beetroot with three prawns placed on it ; but 
the prawns must be so arranged that the beetroot is 



ENTREES 6 I 

not visible, a few chervil sprays should be put into the 
interstices. 



Chaudfroid a la Homburg 

Take a dozen sandwich moulds, line them thinly 
with pale aspic, stamp out some truffles with spade 
and club cutters, also stamp out some red aspic in 
the shape of diamonds and hearts ; arrange three with 
diamonds, three with hearts, three with clubs, and 
three with spades, some with five pips, some two, &c., 
according to fancy. Make some white aspic cream 
and mask the moulds with it. Then have ready 
some veal cream and fill the moulds with it ; place on 
ice and turn out. Make some ham cream, colour it 
with cochineal, and put it in a fancy border mould ; 
put on ice, then turn out. Place in the centre of the 
ham border a Russian salad and stand the cards all 
round, fill in all the interstices with aspic jelly ; cover 
the top of the salad with some curled anchovies here 
and there, sprinkled with chopped aspic. The salad 
should be well covered with green mayonnaise. (See 
Plate VI.) 

Croquettes a la Rhodes 

Get a bottle of prepared cockscombs, warm them 
up in Bechamel sauce. When cold, cut them into 
very neat small pieces and mix in some minced 
truffles ; add some more sauce in which some cream 
has been mixed, and a tea-spoonful of Madeira. 

Have ready some puff paste, stamp it out in pieces 



62 COOKERY A LA MODE 

about four inches square, place a small spoonful of 
the mixture in the centre of each, moisten the edges 
and fold over ; press them gently to make them 
adhere, and with the paste-cutter round off the edges, 
giving them a half-oval shape. Dip each croquette 
into egg seasoned with salt and pepper, then roll in 
bruised vermicelli ; fry in boiling fat. Dish up en 
pyr amide ; garnish with fried parsley. 



Cutlets k la Fridalla 

(Cotelettes a la Fridalla) 

Take equal parts of ready boiled Spanish onions 
and potatoes and pass them through a sieve, then 
put them into a saucepan with a large piece of butter, 
and season with salt and plenty of black pepper ; 
add a little milk or cream ; stir well, and as soon as 
the mixture is quite hot pile it up on a dish within a 
circle of broiled or sauted mutton cutlet. 



Devilled Chicken a la Dante 

Take the pinions, breasts and legs, and gizzard, 
sprinkle them with cayenne pepper and salt. Melt 
an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add a small tea- 
spoonful of mustard, a dessert-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup, a piece of garlic well bruised and cut up, also 
a dessert-spoonful of Worcester sauce. Make it all 
hot. Well score the chicken, butter well, broil it, and 
lay on the sauce, putting it well into the scores ; give 
it one more broil up and serve. 



ENTRfeES 63 



Dressed Tongue 

Boil a nice ox tongue for three hours, and when 
done take off the skin and shape it well by placing 
the root against some fixture and running a fork 
through the middle of the thin part into the board 
upon which it stands. When the tongue is cold, 
trim and glaze it lightly, and ornament with savoury 
jelly in two shades of colour. A pretty way is to 
place a strip of pale aspic about an inch and a half 
wide down the centre and put little cross-bars of paler 
jelly over that, and on either side of the wide piece 
of jelly place little pink rosettes, made of cream and 
aspic coloured with a little carmine. These can be 
put on with a forcer or squeezed through a butter 
cloth. 

Chopped aspic and croutons of the same should 
garnish all round. (See Plate VIII.) 



Ecrevisses a la Parisienne 

Butter some crayfish moulds and line them with 
salmon forcemeat ; fill in the interior some sliced 
crayfish mixed with a little Allemande sauce. When 
the moulds are full poach them and serve them up 
with Cardinal sauce. 



Foie-gras Fritters 

Make some good batter, and take a tin of Philippe's 
p^te-de-foie-gras, and cut out some of the contents 



64 COOKERY A LA MODE 

into slices about half an inch thick by one and a 
half long. 

Season with salt, lemon-juice, and a dust of 
cayenne. Dip the slices of foie-gras into the boiling 
batter, and, when crisp, drain and dish them up with 
a little champagne sauce. 



Karl en Surprise 

Take some plain dariole moulds, mask them 
thinly with pale aspic, then line them with some 
cooked Patna rice to the thickness of a quarter of an 
inch ; stand on ice, then fill in with curried shrimps, 
into which a little aspic has been mixed ; stand again 
on ice, then turn out and decorate with red chillies 
minced finely and sprinkled on the top. Serve on a 
border of aspic jelly coloured carmine or pink. 



Kidneys k la Apicius 

After skinning the kidneys split them into halves, 
place them in a saute-pan with some boiling butter, 
some finely chopped onion and mushrooms, and a 
dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Saute them till 
all are cooked, shaking them well. Have ready 
some bouche moulds and line them with some 
mushroom forcemeat, place half a kidney in each, 
cover with more forcemeat, and steam them for 
twenty minutes. Turn them out on croutons of fried 
bread. Boil up the sauce and pour over all. 



ENTREES 65 

Kidneys a la Belle Vue 

Take three sheep's kidneys, mince and fry them 
in butter ; fry in the same butter some flour till it 
slightly browns. Add a clove of garlic, a table- 
spoonful of minced parsley, an onion, and a bay-leaf. 
When fried, pass through a sieve and give another 
turn over the fire, adding a glass of Sauterne. Sprinkle 
a little pepper over. Place this on some toast, and 
have ready some poached eggs according to the 
number required. 

Kidney Fritters 

Make a breakfast-cupful of nice frying batter, 
and stir in a table-spoonful of finely minced onion, 
a tea-spoonful of mixed herbs, and a small pinch of 
cayenne. Take half a dozen sheep's kidneys, remove 
the skin, and cut each one into three or four slices ; 
season these with a little salt, let them soak for ten 
minutes in either Worcester sauce or port wine, then 
dip them into the batter — which ought to be thick 
enough to stick to the meat — and fry in boiling fat 
till sufficiently cooked and coloured a nice brown ; 
drain well, and serve piled up with a little parsley 
powdered over the top and a few sprigs of parsley 
placed round about. 

Stewed Kidneys and Mushrooms 

Skin some kidneys, slice them small ; and peel 
some mushrooms, trim them, and chop them up 

F 



66 COOKERY A LA MODE 

roughly. Put the kidneys into a Gourmet Boila with 
pepper, salt, a dredging of flour, and a good-sized 
piece of butter and a little stock. Let them simmer 
till getting tender, then add the mushrooms, and let 
all cook slowly till done. Add half a glass of port 
wine, a few drops of Worcester sauce, and some 
chopped parsley. It will take about an hour or an 
hour and a half to simmer. Serve them in an entree 
dish with a puree of potato forced into little pyramids 
all round with a forcing pipe. (See Plate VIII.) 



Breast of Lamb a la Grecque 

Take the breasts of two lambs, bone them ; make 
an incision in the thicker end and fill with a farce 
made of one part veal suet, a little mint and parsley, 
pepper and salt to taste, and two yolks of eggs. 
Have ready a little pale stock well flavoured with 
vegetables and a little Marsala ; cover with buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven for an hour, well basting 
constantly. When cooked, take up the meat, skim 
off fat, and reduce the gravy one half 

Serve with a puree of spinach or green peas 
round, and ornament with slices of stewed cucumber. 



Jambonneaux de Poulet a la Florentine 

Make a socle with yellow balls all round, made of 
yolk of egg in aspic jelly, the jelly coloured with 
saffron yellow colouring. Little ham moulds must be 



ENTREES 67 

filled with chicken cream, but before putting in the 
cream the moulds should be masked with brown aspic 
towards the knuckle, and the other part white aspic 
cream ; place little aigrette skewers where the bones 
ought to go. The socle should be made in three tiers, 
and the cutlets placed round on each ; make a mound 
of green peas in aspic, and place a hatelet in the 
middle piercing a truffle. 



Cutlets a la General 

Take some lamb, mince it finely, pass it through 
a sieve with some mint aspic cream, minced truffles, 
and Allemande sauce. Line some cutlet moulds 
with aspic jelly, decorating them with truffles, &c., as 
in Plate. When set, have ready some pink and white 
aspic ; place pink on one half and leave on ice, and 
when set put white aspic on the other half. When set, 
put in the lamb mince. Decorate them with little paper 
hatelets ; arrange them en coiironne, with peas glazed 
with green aspic in the centre. (See Plate IX.) 



Cdtelettes ^ la Rouge et Noir 

Take some veal forcemeat made with cooked veal 
chopped very fine, mixed with ham also minced very 
fine ; grate some pistachio kernels, pound all together 
in a mortar with some nicely flavoured white sauce, 
then pass all through a sieve and add a gill of stiffly 
whipped cream and half a pint of pale liquid aspic 

F2 



68 COOKERY A LA MODE 

and place on ice. When cold, line some cutlet moulds 
with tomato aspic jelly, ornamenting them first with 
little designs in truffle. When firm, put in the veal 
forcemeat ; put on ice again till the dish is wanted ; 
arrange on a rice socle iced, and put a water-cress 
salad in the centre. (See Plate V.) 



Lamb Cutlets Financi^re 

Take some neck cutlets of lamb, pepper and salt 
them, and sprinkle on them a little finely-powdered 
mint ; fry them ; then drain and glaze them. Place 
them round a croustade with a little paper skewer 
in each ; then fill in with Financiere ragout ; place 
a hatelet skewer mould on the top, the mould to be 
filled with truffled cream of sweetbread, placing a 
cockscomb on the top with the hatelet skewer. Cut 
some truffles into the shape of balls and put one 
between each cutlet. Serve Financiere sauce with it. 
(See Plate VIII.) 



Liver and Bacon a la Bourgeoise 

Cut some calf's liver into neat slices, sprinkle it 
with pepper and salt, and parsley chopped fine. Put 
a good-sized piece of butter in the stewpan with a 
shalot, which let remain on the melted butter for ten 
minutes, then remove it and place in the slices of liver. 
Put the pan on the fire and let it cook very slowly 
for an hour. Take some good gravy and put it into 
the pan with the gravy from the liver, and let it boil 



PLATE VIII. 




1. Lamb Cutlets a la Financiere. 3. Cutlets a la Pompadour. 

2. Dressed Tongue. 4. Kidneys stewed with Mushrooms. 

5. Veal Cutlets a la Dundonald. 



ENTREES 69 

Up ; then arrange the liver e7i couronne^ pour the sauce 
over, and place rolls of bacon between every two 
slices. 



Lucullus Patties 

Line some patty pans with good puff paste. Take 
a large truffle and three mushrooms and mince them 
finely with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs cut 
into dice, with a little salt and pepper. Add a table- 
spoonful of thick cream and put a portion into each 
patty. Place the cover on the top and press the 
edges firmly together, then bake for about fifteen to 
twenty minutes in a tolerably brisk oven. 

Medallions a la Diana 

Take as many target moulds ^ as required, line 
them with aspic jelly in different colours, outer row 
green, next row white, next red, the fourth blue, and 
the centre gold colour, in which a fragment of gold 
leaf has been whisked ; set on ice ; when set, fill the 
moulds with chicken, veal, game, or lobster cream. 
Brush over with liquefied aspic and place on ice 
again ; when properly set turn them out and arrange 
them en couronne on a pale green aspic socle. Fill 
in the interstices with whipped aspic, and in the centre 
fill in with a verte mayonnaise salad. 

This dish may be also made with coloured creams 
or jellies, giving a different flavour to each colour. 

' These moulds are only procurable at Temple & Crookes, 
Motcomb St., S.W. 



70 COOKERY A LA MODE 

In the centre there should be whipped cream sprinkled 
over with grated pistachio kernels. (See Plate X.) 



Melange a TEmpire 

Make some stiff jelly, and, if moulds in the shape 
of cushions are to be had, fill the moulds with them ; 
the jelly must be mixed with cream. I have no 
moulds, so I cut the jelly into cushion shapes and 
force on to the edges with a pipe line of golden 
colour jelly and make the tassels of the same. It is 
troublesome to do, but it makes a characteristic dish 
at a military supper or luncheon. One large cushion 
can be made or half a dozen smaller ones. Stand 
on the top of the cushion a crown. Take a crown 
mould and fill the inner part with red jelly, and where 
the jewels ought to be put in red, green, and white 
jelly to imitate stones and fill in all the remaining 
part with yellow jelly. At each corner of the cushion 
place lions made in orange jelly. Moulds in the shape 
of lions are to be obtained. Two little union jacks 
(paper ones) can be placed at the back of the crown. 
(See Plate X.) 



Milanese Frivolitds 

Boil half a pound of macaroni till tender, butter 
some pretty little moulds, and line them with the 
macaroni placed in rounds. Mince some cooked 
chickens' livers, a little foie-gras, three or four oysters ; 



ENTREES 7 I 

season with pepper, salt, and a dust of cayenne. 
Add some veloiite sauce in sufficient quantity to 
make a stiffish paste. Fill the moulds with this 
mixture and steam for forty-five minutes ; turn out 
and arrange in a circle. Garnish the top of one with 
chopped parsley, another with grated tongue, another 
with the hard-boiled yolk of an Ggg, and another with 
the hard-boiled white ; sprinkle chopped pistachio 
kernels over all. Serve a lemon sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 



Mutton Cutlets ^ la Pompadour 

(Cotelettes de Mouton h la Pompadour) 

Take some mutton cutlets, saute or braise them 
in stock with vegetables in it very carefully. Take 
some tomato sauce and an equal part of aspic jelly ; 
mix well together, and when nearly cold mask the 
cutlets with it, and if necessary let them stand on ice 
till cold. Ornament the cutlets with alternately truffles 
and hard whites of eggs cut into the shape of kites 
and crescents, and lay them all one way, Serve in 
the centre a macedoine of vegetables with mayonnaise 
sauce, and garnish with finely cut aspic and small 
tomatoes round. (See Plate VIII.) 

Mutton Cutlets a la Siegfried 

Trim a dozen mutton cutlets, cutting the bones 
short and freeing them from meat, fat, and gristle ; 
season with salt and pepper and fry them in clarified 



72 COOKERY A LA MODE 

butter a delicate brown. Drain and dish them round 
a croustade, placing a truffle between each. Fill 
the croustade with cockscombs, the centre with 
truffles, lambstones, truffles and mushrooms which 
have been warmed up in Espagnole sauce. 



Mutton Cutlets a la Tintara 

Trim some neck cutlets and then soak them in a 
marinade of Tintara claret (Australian), a shalot, a 
small piece of garlic, two cloves, and pepper and salt to 
taste. Let them soak for a day and a half, then take 
the marinade, put it into a saucepan with some 
champignons and truffles. When the mushrooms are 
soft they are done. Strain the liquor, and when cold 
mix in a little flour and butter, and boil up. Broil 
the cutlets, arrange them en couronne, place the 
mushrooms and truffles in the centre, and pour the 
sauce over all. 



Oriental Patties 

(Tartelettes a I'Orient) 

Line some small patty-pans with good paste very 
thinly, and fill them with barley (so that they may be 
kept hollow), and bake them for ten minutes ; then 
take out the barley. Skin two dozen prawns. Take 
one and a half ounce of butter, melt it ; fry a shalot, 
and add half a tea-spoonful of flour, one tea spoonful 
of curry paste, and the juice from a small lemon and 



ENTREES ']2i 

a little cayenne. Cook this mixture over the fire ; 
then stiffly fill the cases with it, and have ready half 
a gill of cream, stiffly flavoured with anchovy, and 
place on the top ; sprinkle with coralline pepper. 

Medallions of Pork a la Berlin 

Chop up finely some pork, either cooked or raw, 
have ready a little cream sauce, mix with it a little 
powdered sage and some very finely chopped onion, 
pepper and salt to taste. Take some medallion moulds 
and put in the mixture. Poach them in good stock. 
Turn them out on a border of apple sauce arranged en 
couronne ; serve tomatoes in the middle. 

This dish can be eaten cold if the moulds have 
been lined with aspic and aspic jelly mixed into the 
sauce ; the pork then must have been cooked ; instead 
of poaching, put the moulds on ice, turn and serve 
on an aspic border, and fill the centre with whipped 
tomato aspic. (See Plate XIV.) 

Pork Croquettes 

Mince some pork, lean and fat together, with a very 
small piece of sage and a small piece of onion finely 
minced. Make some sauce Robert and mix in with the 
pork, and cook all together. When done, leave to get 
cold ; then roll into balls ; dust them over with flour. 
Then egg-and-breadcrumb and fry in the usual 
manner. Pepper and salt and a soupcon of dried mint 
should be mixed in the crumbs. 



24- COOKERY A LA MODE 

Pork Cutlets k la Gourmet 

Take a piece of neck of pork and cut it into 
neat cutlets. Cook them, and put them under a 
weight to flatten them. Mask them in apple sauce 
in which aspic and whipped cream have been mixed, 
and place on ice ; arrange them on a border made of 
potatoes, onions, and sweet herbs, pepper and salt, 
a little liquefied aspic jelly, and a table-spoonful of 
cream. 

In the centre place some iced tomato cream cut 
out into little rounds or squares the size of dice, 
whichever is preferred. 



Pork Cutlets au Roi 

Cut a piece of the neck of pork into nicely 
trimmed cutlets, season and mask them on one side 
with a forcemeat of sage, onion, and sweet herbs, 
pour a little clarified butter over them. Put the un- 
masked side in a pan, and saute them. When cooked, 
put the forcemeat well on to them and pour a little 
tomato puree over them, and just put them in the pan 
again for a minute or two. Dish them up on a potato 
border, and serve apple sauce in the centre mixed with 
cream. 

This dish can be made cold ; putting aspic into 
the tomato puree, and masking the cutlets with them. 
Dish them up en conronne on a border of whipped 
red aspic, and fill the centre with apple sauce mixed 
with whipped cream. 



ENTREES 75 

Iced Prawn Curry 

(Kari Glace aux Crevettes) 

Take four ounces of butter ; put it into a 
saucepan, and slice into it two onions. Fry them till 
brown over a slow fire, then remove the onions into 
another dish. Have the prawns picked, and rub one 
and a half table-spoonful of curry powder over them, 
put them into the melted butter, and stew over a 
slow fire until the meat becomes a light brown. Add 
as much mutton gravy as will cover the prawns ; 
season with a little salt, then stew over a slow 
fire, and when the gravy has become thick add 
a coffee-cupful of cocoa-nut milk or cream and the 
juice of a lemon, half a pint of aspic jelly, and a 
gill of whipped cream. Mix the whole together. 
Garlic or green ginger may be added according to 
taste. A dessert-spoonful of sweet chutnee is an 
improvement. Put on ice till cold ; have ready some 
boiled Patna rice which has been put into a border 
mould, and put on ice ; turn out, and place the curry 
on the top ; sprinkle pink aspic jelly over all when 
dished. 



Quenelles de Volaille a la Merveille 

Pound a chicken, pass through a fine sieve, and 
add half a pint of cream and a spoonful of Supreme 
sauce ; season to taste. Boil four eggs hard, pound 
the yolks with a fourth part of their volume of 
butter and a spoonful of Supreme sauce, pass through 



76 COOKERY A LA MODE 

a sieve, season with salt and pepper, then a large 
spoonful of very finely chopped ham, and allow 
it to get cool. Take egg-moulds, butter and line 
them with the chicken, then place in the centre a 
small ball of the egg mixture to represent the yolk. 
Close the two parts of the mould, place them in a 
saute pan, cover them with boiling water and let them 
poach, then turn them out, and dress the eggs on a 
border of spinach ; hand Supreme sauce with them. 
Messrs. Jones of Down Street, Piccadilly, keep 
these moulds. 



Ragout of Lamb-tails 

Take six or eight lamb-tails and boil them in a 
quart of water to which half a pint of Marsala has 
been added, cut them into neat pieces and then 
brown a little butter, and put the tails in with a gill 
of good stock, two anchovies, one shalot, a mustard- 
spoonful of mustard, and a squeeze of lemon ; pepper 
and salt to taste. Stew these together, then strain off, 
keeping only the lamb-tails, thicken the gravy with 
a little butter and flour, add a little colouring, and 
serve garnished with dried barberries. 



Rissoles of Cockscombs and Truffles 

(Croquettes de Cretes de Coq aux Truffes) 

Scald and clean a dozen large cockscombs, boil 
them in thin white sauce. When nearly cold, cut 



ENTRIES "J"] 

them into dice and mix them with chopped truffles 
which have been boiled in sherry, and moisten with 
the white sauce. 

Roll out some puff paste, cut into pieces about 
four inches in diameter, bake for a few minutes so 
as to brown them on one side, lay a spoonful of the 
cockscomb and truffles in the centre of each piece 
of paste, moisten the edges with egg ; fold them 
together and press gently to make them stick, dip 
each rissole into beaten q.%^ seasoned with salt and 
pepper ; fry in boiling fat Dish up in a pyramid 
and garnish with fried parsley. 



Sheep's Brains Roasted 

Prepare the brains by soaking in cold water with 
a little salt for half an hour, remove the caul or skin 
which envelops them very gently, leave them in fresh 
water a little longer ; they should be simmered in 
about a pint of water, seasoned with a table-spoonful 
of vinegar, a clove of garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, and half 
a tea-spoonful of sugar, pepper, and salt. When the 
brains are done, drain and dry them, cut each one in 
half lengthways, brush over with yolk of Q.g^ and roll 
them in fine bread-crumbs seasoned with minced 
parsley, then sprinkle them with clarified butter and 
bread-crumbs again. Put each piece of brain on a 
small slice of bacon, place them in a baking-dish, 
and set them in a well-heated oven for about half an 
hour, basting occasionally. When nicely browned 
lay the slices of bacon on toast, put the brains on the 



78 COOKERY A LA MODE 

top of the bacon and serve with tomato sauce in a 
tureen. 



Swans a la Henley 

Take some swan-moulds and line them with the 
palest aspic jelly, then make some veal cream in the 
same way as for chicken cream, but putting into the 
cream half a pint of pale aspic. Colour a little of 
the cream yellow with apricot yellow, and fill in the 
beaks with it. Cut a tiny piece of truffle, and place 
at the end of the beak, joining the head, a small piece 
of truffle for the eye ; put on ice, and when the aspic, 
&c., is well frozen, fill up the moulds with the veal 
cream, close the moulds and fasten them together 
tightly and put on ice ; the necks must be made 
extra stiff. Have ready some pale aspic jelly, and 
place it on the silver dish ; it must be very even, so as 
to resemble water. Turn the swans out and arrange 
them on the jelly as if swimming. Cut out some of 
the jelly, which must be coloured yellow, into the 
shape of water-lilies, and some leaves in green jelly, 
and place about here and there in clumps. Arrange 
parsley stalks like rushes ; a little gelatine will make 
them adhere and stand upright. (See Plate IX.) 



Sweetbreads a la Supreme 

(Ris de Veau a la Supreme) 

Take two plump sweetbreads, put them into 
salt and water and bring them to the boil, and put 



PLATE IX. 




S V 






1. Medallions of Chicken a la Audrey. 3. Swans a la Henley. 

2. Chartreuse a I'Echec. 4. Cutlets a la General. 



ENTRIES 79 

them between two plates to flatten them ; cut off all 
the gristle underneath ; then cut them into rounds the 
size of a crown piece, cook them in half a pint of good 
stock, with some carrot and turnip cut small. Bring 
them to the boil, then simmer for twenty minutes ; 
when done, drain and dish them up in a potato 
border, and pour on a white mushroom sauce the 
bottled button mushrooms should be used. 



Timbale of Macaroni 

Take half a pound of Naples macaroni, boil it till 
quite soft, drain it on a cloth, cut it in pieces half an 
inch long ; well butter a plain mould, line it with 
buttered paper, place in the macaroni endways so as 
to give the appearance of honeycomb when turned 
out. Make a paste by putting a gill of water, a 
small piece of butter, and a little salt into a stewpan 
to boil. When boiling, throw into it a table-spoonful 
of flour, leave it a few minutes, then stir in one egg, 
and turn it out on a plate till wanted. Take a pound 
of veal cutlet or any meat or poultry, pound the 
meat in a mortar, and add to it half the quantity of 
paste and a quarter of the quantity in butter, with salt, 
pepper, and a sprinkling of lemon-peel and cayenne 
and parsley. Mix all together, add one egg and 
three yolks, pass through a wire sieve, stir in a gill 
of white sauce, place it in the mould and steam 
for half an hour. Serve with truffle sauce, (See 
Plate X.) 



8o COOKERY A LA MODE 

Tornedos a la Natal 

Take a fillet of beef, and cut into rounds the size 
of a five-shilling piece and one inch thick ; see that 
they are all the same size. Make some croutons of 
fried bread just a size larger than the little fillets. 
Scoop out the centre to the size of a shilling and 
within a quarter of an inch of the bottom, which 
fill with a thick Ravigote sauce. Cook the fillets in 
oiled butter and season them with pepper and salt. 
When cooked, place the tornedos on each crouton, 
lay a slice of foie-gras on the top of each, and above 
that a thick slice of truffle. Surround them with a 
sauce made as follows. Cut a carrot small, onion 
and shalot into slices, add to which a slice of fat 
ham, cut small two cloves, a sprig of lemon thyme, 
and parsley, pepper and salt, fry all these in a rich 
Espagnole sauce, into which a table-spoonful of tomato 
conserve has been added ; let all simmer for half an 
hour, strain and add a tea-spoonful of Marsala and 
serve en coiironne, with Financiere of truffles and cocks- 
combs in the centre dressed with silver hatelets. 



Torpedoes 

Cut up three ounces of cold chicken and two 
ounces of cooked ham and two hard-boiled eggs 
into dice. Mix them with a gill of rich white sauce, 
stir in also some truffle peelings, a few pistachio 
kernels cut in half, salt and pepper to taste, and a 
tea-spoonful of lemon juice. Whip a gill of cream 



PLATE. X. 











4. 




1. Melange a I'Empire. 3. Timbale of Macaroni. 

2. Torpedos. 4. Medallions a la Diana. 



ENTREES 8 1 

till very stiff, and stir lightly into the other ingre- 
dients. Fill small ramequin cases with the mixture, 
and decorate the top of each with chopped truffle, 
the yolk of egg passed through the sieve, or with 
coralline pepper. 

If the little silver saucepans to hold ramequin 
cases are handy, the appearance of the dish is much 
improved. 

Truffle peelings can be bought already chopped. 
(See Plate IX.) 



Sweetbreads k la Potosi 

Take a pair of sweetbreads, blanch them and pique 
them with strips of truffle ; then place them in a 
braising-pan with a slice of fat ham, a carrot, and 
a turnip ; add some nicely flavoured pale stock, and 
cook them slowly. 

Have ready a plain round mould, well buttered, 
and arrange round the sides of it pieces of carrot 
and turnip cut into rounds the size of a florin, which 
have been cooked in salted water and left to get cold 
and firm. Fill up all the interstices with potato 
puree in which an egg has been mixed. Cover 
with buttered paper, and poach in a stewpan for half 
an hour ; then turn it out on to the dish it is to be 
served on, and fill the centre with cooked button 
mushrooms in white sauce. Dish the sweetbreads 
up on the top in a triangular form, place a tomato 
on the top decorated with a silver hatelet and a 
whole truffle. Serve tomato sauce with it. 

G 



82 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Veal Cutlets a I'Andalouse 

Take a pound and a half of veal cutlets. Cut 
into rounds the size of five-shilling pieces, and put 
them into a stewpan with some nicely flavoured pale 
stock. Simmer them till cooked, having first seasoned 
them with pepper and salt. They will take about 
one hour. Make in readiness some brown sauce 
from good stock, flour and butter. Season with salt 
and pepper, and flavour with a pint of sherry. Add 
then some very small tomatoes (gooseberry tomatoes) ; 
simmer for ten minutes. When the cutlets are to be 
served, dish them in a round, one overlapping the 
other. Fry some very small and thin slices of bacon, 
roll them, and place one on each cutlet. Fill in the 
centre with the tomatoes, and serve quickly and hot. 



Veal Cutlets k la Clothilde 

Take about two pounds of veal cutlet, cut it into 
rounds the size of a five-shilling piece, make a slit on 
one side, and cut each cutlet open half-way across so 
as to make a pocket. Have ready a forcemeat com- 
posed of minced ham, truffles, champignons, one shalot 
minced, and a piece of butter. Moisten with the 
yolk of an egg. Put some of this forcemeat into the 
pocket of each cutlet. Egg and bread-crumb the 
cutlets, mixing in the bread-crumbs pepper, salt, a 
little chopped parsley, and a soupcon of lemon-peel 
grated. Place the cutlets in a stewpan, and fry 
them to a nice golden colour. Make a gravy with 



ENTREES S^ 

good highly flavoured stock, thickened with butter 
and flour. Add some truffle peelings and a wine- 
glass of sherry, and pour over. A pur^e of mush- 
rooms is sometimes sent up with them. 



Veal Cutlets a la Donna Anna 

These cutlets are prepared and made like veal cut- 
lets a la Clothilde, except that in the pockets of each 
a tomato stuffing is inserted, made by chopping up 
tomatoes, a bead of garlic, a red chilli, and a little 
cream (the tomatoes must be passed through a 
sieve) ; the stuffing must not be too moist. 

The cutlets must then be cooked with egg and 
savoury bread-crumbs, and tomato sauce served 
round. A puree of ham and cream should be served 
in the centre. 

Veal Cutlets k la Dundonald 

Cut out some veal cutlet into rounds the size of 
a four-shilling piece. Have ready some truffles, 
larding bacon, and a few slices of tongue. Cut them 
into half-inch lengths and one-eighth of an inch 
wide, and lard alternately six pieces of each into the 
centre of the cutlet Then place them in a stewpan 
with one onion, a small piece of garlic, a carrot, 
turnip, a little celery, a bouquet garni, and a bay- 
leaf Cover them with veal broth, and let them 
simmer for an hour ; then let them remain in the 
stock till next day. When required, take som pale 

Ci 2 



84 COOKERY A LA MODE 

liquefied aspic jelly and glaze the cutlets with it. 
Dish up en coiironne alternately with little rounds 
of ham of same size as veal dipped in aspic, on a 
border of mushroom jelly (which is made of aspic 
and a puree of mushrooms). Garnish with peas in 
the centre which have been cooked in two table- 
spoonfuls of aspic jelly. Place little croutons of 
pink aspic round the dish. (See Plate VIII.) 



Veal Cutlets a la Heinz 

Cut some veal cutlet into rounds the size of a 
five-shilling piece. Have ready some fine bread- 
crumbs, into which mix pepper and salt to taste, a 
little minced parsley, thyme, and a soupgon of 
grated lemon-peel. Dip the cutlets in Qg%, and then 
crumb them. Take one of Heinz's tins of baked 
beans, warm them up, and pile them up in the centre 
of the dish. Arrange the cutlets round, with a piece 
of fried and rolled bacon in between each. Pour a 
little tomato sauce over all, and serve very hot. 



Vol-au-Vent of Lamb Sweetbreads en Blanquette 

Make a vol-au-vent case, or a few small vol-au- 
vent cases. Steep some lamb sweetbreads in cold 
water, bleach, drain, and chop them ; cook them in 
white braise, drain, and cut them into scallops ; 
mix them in some veloute sauce, and fill the inside 
of the vol-au-vent with the sweetbreads 



ENTREES 85 

Creme de Veau a la General 

Make some forcemeat with veal or chicken, some 
pistachio nuts finely chopped, seasoned to taste, some 
minced ham ; pass through sieve ; add a gill and a 
half of aspic, a glass of sauterne, a gill of cream, and 
a gill of Supreme sauce. 

Line some cutlet-moulds with pale aspic, cut some 
truffles in strips, and arrange them as in a plate in the 
moulds, also some strips of French beans picked or 
otherwise, with little devices imitating roses in red 
aspic ; arrange the truffles in some of the moulds and 
the green in the others. Put on ice and have ready- 
some white aspic cream and some pink aspic cream — 
decorate the moulds half with white and half with pink, 
doing one colour at a time and then placing on ice. 

Creme de Veau * Porte Vein^' 

Pound the meat of a pound of veal, pass it through 
a sieve with a gill of cream, salt, and white pepper to 
taste ; line the moulds with aspic, decorate the nails 
with truffle and the knot with tongue, cut very thin, 
then put on ice. Then fill the moulds with the veal 
forcemeat and lay on the top a slice of ham cut to 
the shape of the mould. 

Dish up on a border of ham farce coloured with a 
little cochineal ; place in the centre a macedoine of 
vegetables en viayonnaise or with peas tossed in aspic. 

These moulds can be procured only at Jones 
Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly, W. (See Plate 
XIV.) 



PLATE XL 




3LIC 
A, Boiled Fowl ; B, Roasl Pheasant; C, Roast Partridges. V-.'- ■ < k^\y^ 



POULTRY AND GAME 



And we meet — with champagne and chicken at last' 

Lady Mary W. Montagu 



PLATE XII. 




\. Little Aspics of Wild Duck. 3. Blanc Mange of Pheasant. 

2. Chicken a la Tombeau. 4. Prawns a la " de Salis." 

5. Chicken a la Chancelliere. 



^ 



Ci> 



POULTRY AND GAME RECIPES 
AND THEIR COOKERY 

In my remarks in the pages on Entrees I have talked 
of boiling, roasting, &c., so that I think it would be 
superfluous to enlarge any more on that subject, 
therefore I shall only give a few hints by which to 
ensure their succulency. 

In roasting poultry one must remember that the 
closer the flesh the longer time it takes to cook, and it 
is of the greatest importance that great attention 
should be made to the basting ; the breast of a bird 
should be covered with butter or dripping to an inch 
thick before putting before the fire. If cooked in the 
oven, the breast should be covered in the same way 
and placed breast downwards in the roaster and a 
lump of dripping placed in its inside, unless it is 
stuffed, and when half cooked turned on its back. To 
make poultry tender, steep it in boiling water and 
pluck it in the hot water. 

Poultry, if to be boned, is to the tiro a little diffi- 
cult, and I would advise all who have to do it to have 
ocular demonstration, as it is almost impossible to 
learn from description, and to accomplish it properly 
requires practice. 

Ducks a la Rouennaise 

(French Recipe) 

Truss a duck for roasting ; take the giblets, chop 
finely, add salt and pepper to taste, a little ground 



90 COOKERY A LA MODE 

allspice, a table-spoonful of butter, the same of chopped 
shalots, a small piece of garlic the size of a pea 
minced, two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, the same 
of chopped parsley. Stuff the duck with this, then 
roast briskly for half an hour ; take the drippings, 
and add a little good dark stock and strain over the 
ducks ; send some of the gravy in a tureen. 



Little Aspics of Wild Duck 

Take some dariole moulds and decorate them 
with designs in truffles and chervil leaves, dipping 
them in half-set pale aspic ; ornament the bottoms 
with a small round of orange the size of a shilling, 
with little devices of white of egg round it, then mask 
all with a thin layer of aspic. Have ready some wild 
duck forcemeat which has been poached in port wine 
with a few truffles chopped fine ; fill up the mould 
with it and place on ice. When ready, turn them out 
and garnish with watercress and quarters of oranges. 
(See Plate XII.) 

Jugged Wild Duck 

Cut the wild duck into neat joints, put them into 
a frying-pan, just to brown them. Put these joints 
with some good rich gravy into one of the Boila jars 
and half a dozen oysters, and their liquor, the juice 
of two oranges, a little cayenne, a small onion, and a 
gill of port wine. Close the jar tightly down, stand 
it in a pan of boiling water in the oven. In about an 
hour and a quarter, when done, place it into the entree 



PLATE XIll. 




A, Roast Pigeons ; B, Roast Goose ; C, Roast Fowl 



I'OULTRY AND GAM£ 9I 

dish it is to be served in, and place fried sippets 
round and quarters of oranges. 



Salmi of Woodcock a la Royale 

Take three woodcocks and prepare them for roast- 
ing. When they are roasted let them get cold ; 
dismember them and remove all skin. Place them 
in a stewpan with some stock, then let them simmer, 
taking care they do not boil. Have ready another 
saucepan in which put six shalots cut small, a little 
lemon-peel and the carcases of the woodcocks, four 
spoonfuls of brown sauce and a wine-glassful of 
champagne. Let all boil till reduced, then strain 
through a sieve and pour it over the woodcocks with a 
squeeze of lemon juice over, and garnish with sippets 
of fried bread. 

Chicken a la Como 

Cut up a young fowl and cook it in a stewpan 
with butter and salad oil till brown, then add six 
tomatoes, three red chillies chopped fine, a very little 
garlic, and two table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Cook 
slowly for a couple of hours, keeping the lid of the 
stewpan tightly closed. Serve with tomatoes round. 



Chartreuse a la Prince Edward 

Line a plain round mould with pale aspic. Cut 
some truffles very thinly and evenly into squares half 



92 COOKERY A LA MODE 

an inch square. Make some aspic cream very stiff, 
flavoured with a little tarragon vinegar ; when cold 
and firm, cut into squares the same size as the truffles. 
Place these evenly and alternately round the mould 
like a chess-board, fixing them in with a little aspic. 
When the mould is covered, place on ice for two or 
three hours. 

Then fill in the centre with lobster cream, and put 
on ice again ; turn out and serve with red aspic 
chopped all round it and over the top. Whip some 
of the red aspic and lay in a little mound on the top 
and sprinkle it over with finely chopped pistachio 
kernels round. A hatelet standing up in the centre, 
piercing a truffle, is often placed. 



Chicken a la Tombeau 

Boil a fowl, and when quite cold mask it with a 
very white Bechamel sauce into which has been mixed 
cream and aspic. Pour the sauce on with a palette- 
knife. Cut truffles into tiny rings, crescents, trefoils, 
&c., and arrange them prettily all over the chicken ; 
stick them on by dipping them in aspic, and pour 
a little aspic over all. Take a square tin mould, pour 
in a layer of pale aspic and place on ice ; when it is 
cold, place the chicken, breast downwards, on it, then 
fill up the mould gradually with the aspic and put 
on ice. 

Turn out and decorate all round it with truffles, 
parsley, and red chopped aspic. (See Plate XII.) 



POULTRY AND GAME 93 



Chicken a la Czar 



Cut up a chicken as for a fricassee, also three 
quarters of a pound of tongue cut into thin slices the 
size of a florin ; melt some butter in a stewpan and 
then put in the pieces of chicken with a bunch of 
parsley, marjoram, lemon, thyme, and half a bay-leaf; 
add a clove of garlic, and fry this till it is a pretty 
golden colour. Drain the fat away and add half a 
pint of chicken broth, a table-spoonful of sauterne 
and a tea-spoonful of curry paste and a bottle of 
champignons ; let all cook together for about a quarter 
of an hour or twenty minutes, then remove the herbs. 
Thicken the gravy, flavour with a very little mush- 
room ketchup ; then dish up and serve, a border of fried 
crouton round. The crouton should be cut in the 
shape of a diadem. 



Cigarettes a la Royale 

Take the remains of some cold chicken or game. 
Mince it and mix with it some chopped truffles, pate- 
de-foie-gras, pounded ham, salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix in some cream and half a pint of aspic jelly, roll 
round into cigarette shapes and put on ice ; decorate 
with red chopped aspic and parsley round the dish. 
Dish them piled cross-wise on the top of one another. 

These can be made with bread-crumbs in lieu of 
aspic jelly, and then rolled in egg and bread-crumbs, 
and fried and served hot. (See Plate XXI.) 



94 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Caisse de Gibier Prince de Galles 

Procure some little Masonic moulds sold by Jones 
Brothers, butter them ; make one of the triangles in 
truffles, the other in tongue ; line the moulds with 
forcemeat made of the flesh of grouse pounded and 
passed through a sieve, and mix in gradually a gill 
of cream ; season with salt, pepper, and truffle, very 
finely minced. Fill the inside with tongue and truffles 
cut up into Julienne strips, mixed with two or three 
spoonfuls of curry sauce ; cover over with some of the 
forcemeat and poach in a little boiling stock ; dish up 
on a border of the same forcemeat, garnish the middle 
with strips of tongue and truffles, pour curry sauce 
round, and serve some in a sauce-boat ; make the curry 
sauce with good brown stock with the bones of the 
grouse, fry an onion sliced in butter ; add a good 
spoonful of the curry powder, the milk of a cocoa-nut, 
and a spoonful of curry paste ; grate the white part 
of the nut, pour boiling stock over it, and pass through 
a fine strainer and add to the sauce. Boil a few 
minutes, skim, and thicken with a little potato flour 
and butter. 



Chaudfroid of Grouse a la Pekin 

Take the meat from a cooked grouse, taking care 
there be no skin. Pound and rub it through a hair 
sieve and mix with it half a pint of gravy which 
has been made from the bones. After it has been 
passed through a sieve add half a glass of claret, a little 



POULTRY AND GAME 95 

salt, and a dust of cayenne. Chop up some truffles 
and add to the meat with a gill of unflavoured aspic. 
Have some little dariole moulds masked with aspic 
and put in the above mixture. Put on ice, and when 
cold turn out and serve, garnished with chopped aspic 
sprinkled with truffle parings. On the top of each 
mould place a ring of truffle with a little star of 
red aspic in the middle. 



Cream of Hare a la Gil Bias 

Take a fine hare, remove the skin and cut the 
fillets out of the back, leaving the rest of the hare for 
jugging or soup. Put these fillets into a mortar, 
having chopped them first ; pour a gill of good cream 
over and pound well for fifteen minutes, then rub 
through a wire sieve, after which return it to the 
mortar and pound it again, adding, a spoonful at a 
time, half a pint of cream till it is quite smooth and 
well blended ; then mix in a full wineglassful of port 
wine and a table-spoonful of red currant jelly. Put 
this in a mould and cook in a saucepan of water for 
five minutes. Now take a medium-sized baking 
sheet, butter it, and line it with a sheet of white paper 
very evenly and butter this as well, then spread the 
cream of hare taken out of the mould very evenly 
over it to the thickness of one-tenth of an inch ; then 
butter another sheet of paper, place it carefully over 
the top, sprinkle a little water all over the surface 
and put it in a fairly quick oven to set it, which will 
be in about five minutes ; when it is firm to the 



g6 COOKERY A LA MODE 

touch it is ready. When cold, cut it out into oval 
shapes three inches long and one and a half wide. 

Make about eighteen or twenty of these rounds. 
Have ready the same number of forcemeat scallops 
the size of a florin made with one ounce of veal suet, 
the chopped liver of the hare, a table-spoonful of 
parsley, thyme, marjoram, pepper and salt to taste, a 
dust of cayenne. Mix all together with the yolk of 
a large egg and a gill of liquid aspic. Put on ice to 
set and put one on each hare scallop. The bones of 
the hare and any trimmings should have been placed 
on the fire in some stock with a small carrot, onion, 
celery, and a bouquet garni, just brought to the boil, 
and simmered for a couple of hours, then skimmed 
and strained, then mixed with a good brown sauce 
into which four ounces of aspic should be melted. 
Mask the hare scallops with this sauce. Dish them 
up on an ornamented border of aspic cream flavoured 
with red currant jelly alternately with the forcemeat 
scallops, which should be lightly masked with pale 
aspic. 

The centre garnish should be a macedoine of 
vegetables strained from the water and warmed up in 
stock, then drained, and, when cold, tossed them in two 
table-spoonfuls of half-liquid aspic jelly. 

Place aspic croutons and chopped aspic between 
them round the dish. 



Creme de Lapin *ioo up* 

Procure some little * loo-up ' moulds from Jones 
Brothers, mask them with aspic. Blanch and boil 



PLATE XfV 




1. Pork Cutlets a la Berlin. 3. Creme de Lapin "■ 100 up." 

2. Creme de Veau •' Porte Veine." 4. Mousse de Volaille St. Andrew. 

5. Lobster a la United Service. 



f>OULTRY AND GAME 97 

some spinach, put a little soJa in the water to keep 
it a pretty green, pass it through a sieve and mix 
with a forcemeat of the white flesh of a rabbit that has 
been roasted and passed through a sieve. Mix with 
cream and aspic, season with salt and pepper. Wet 
the moulds, make the cues with truffles, the ball on each 
side with white aspic cream, and the centre one of 
tomato aspic. Half fill the mould with the green 
forcemeat ; add some tomato aspic. Arrange on a 
white aspic border, and fill in the centre with a 
macedoine of vegetables tossed in aspic. (See Plate 
XIV.) 

Lark Pie 

Take eight or ten larks, stuff them with foie-gras. 
Line the pie-dish with some fillet of beef cut as for 
tornedos. Add hard-boiled yolks of eggs and good 
gravy ; cover with puff paste. Bake the pie for an 
hour and a quarter. 

Medallions of Chicken k la Audrey 

Pound together some boiled chicken and some 
sweetbreads. Mix in a table-spoonful of ham and a 
table-spoonful of sherry, salt and pepper to taste, 
pass through a sieve ; add half a pint of aspic, the 
same of veloute sauce, and two table-spoonfuls of 
cream. Take some medallion moulds, line them 
with aspic, and decorate them different little designs 
of truffles. Then line the moulds with white aspic, 
and, when set, put in the chicken mixture. Fill in a 
little more aspic and put on ice. (See Plate TX.) 

H 



98 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Arrange these en couromie on a pink border 
made of ham forcemeat, cream, and aspic coloured 
with cochineal, mixed with cream in the centre. Fill 
in with chopped aspic and place a hatelet mould on 
the top with the chicken mixture inside ornamented 
with truffles. Pierce it with a skewer through two 
tomatoes and a truffle. 



Mousse de Volaille a la St. Andrew 

Have some of the moulds made expressly for this 
dish by Jones Brothers, Down Street, and pound the 
white meat of a boiled chicken ; then pass it through 
a fine sieve with half a pint of cream, a gill of aspic 
jelly, a spoonful of cold Supreme sauce, and a spoonful 
of a puree of spinach ; pass all through a tammy ; 
season with salt and pepper. 

Wet the moulds and line them with pale aspic ; 
make the golf clubs and balls with truffles, set on ice, 
then half-fill them with the chicken forcemeat and 
lay on the top of each a slice of cooked ham cut to 
the exact size of the mould. Lay them on ice, and 
serve them on a border made of mushrooms mixed 
and cooked with a table-spoonful of aspic, the juice 
of half a lemon, a gill of cream, and a little chopped 
parsley. (See Plate XIV.) 

Partridges a la Masonic 

Procure some Masonic moulds ; butter them and 
make one of the triangles in truffles, the other in 



POULTRY AND GAME 99 

tongue. Line the moulds with a forcemeat made of 
the meat of a partridge pounded and tammied, then 
mix in a gill of cream ; season to taste. Fill the inside 
with a Julienne of tongue and truffles mixed with 
two spoonfuls of curry sauce ; cover over with a little 
more forcemeat and poach in a little boiling stock. 
Dish up on a forcemeat border and garnish the 
middle with a Julienne of tongue and truffles, and 
pour curry sauce round. 

Pheasant Blanc Mange aux Truffes 

Take a couple of pheasants (if two entrees are 
required) and boil them. Whilst they are boiling 
chemise two plain round moulds with clear aspic 
jelly. Cut some truffles into thin slices, and when the 
aspic in the moulds is set, ornament the bottoms 
with the truffles cut into ornamental shapes, such 
as stars, crescents, or fleur-de-lys, dipping them into 
aspic first to make them adhere. Next put three- 
quarters of a pint of liquid aspic into a basin, and 
with a whisk whip it till it becomes quite white and to 
the consistence of thick cream. Chemise the moulds 
again with this by turning them round and round ; 
it should be quite an inch thick. Now skin the 
pheasants and cut off all the white meat, chop it and 
then pound it with a little cream, and rub it through 
a wire sieve. Put this into a basin, and add half a 
pint of cream and mix lightly. Melt some more 
aspic, and whilst it is in the liquid state whip it well 
and mix it with the pheasant ; then fill the moulds 
with it, and pour a little liquid aspic over. Place on 

H 2 



lOO COOKERY A LA MODE 

ice till required, then turn out ; decorate with aspic 
crotitons and barberries. Serve Russian salad with it. 
(See Plate XII.) 

Pheasant Pie 

Have ready a china pie-dish, a pretty majolica 
one looks best. Bone a couple of pheasants, season 
their interiors with a little pepper, salt, and very little 
chopped onion. Make some forcemeat with ham, 
tongue, pat6-de-foie-gras, and truffles ; place a thick 
layer of it at the bottom of the dish ; fill the interiors 
of the birds with an oyster forcemeat. Roll the birds 
over together, cut them in slices and place on the 
forcemeat, and then lay on some more of foundation 
forcemeat and add some liquid savoury aspic jelly ; 
when the mould is full, arrange it with chopped aspic 
all over the top and arrange crayfish round the edges 
and a large truffle in the middle. 

Pheasant a la St. Charles 

Wrap a pheasant in a sheet of buttered paper and 
roast it ; when it is cooked, stuff it with minced oysters, 
truffles, parsley, a soup^on of onion, a dessert-spoonful 
of lemon-juice, a little cayenne well mixed in butter. 

Then place the pheasant in a stewing-pan with 
butter and a bouquet garni, two shalots and the 
beards of the oysters, some of the oyster liquor, and 
half a pint of good stock, and a claret-glass full of 
sauterne or chablis. Let this all simmer over the fire 
for a quarter of an hour, then give it a boil, and strain 
it over the pheasant after it is dished. 



POULTRY AND GAME lOI 

Chicken a la Chancelliere 

Bone a couple of chickens and stuff them with a 
forcemeat made with some lambs' sweetbreads finely 
chopped, also some finely chopped truffles, mushrooms 
and pistachio-nuts ; mix all together with two ounces 
of panada, a gill of good Supreme sauce, a table- 
spoonful of butter and two Qggs, cayenne pepper, and 
salt to taste. Cut off the feet and truss them for 
boiling ; boil them till tender. When cool mask them 
over with white sauce made in the usual way, with the 
addition of cream and aspic. Stand them up as in 
Plate XII. Glaze the feet and stick them in, and 
place on either side some thin pastry triangularly 
shaped and covered alternately with carrot and turnip 
cut like peas ; or peas may also be introduced as well, 
making them tricolour. The chicken should be gar- 
nished over with leaves of green aspic jelly and little 
darioles filled with a mixture of cream, tongue and 
aspic should be placed round, ornamented with 
chopped aspic. A hatelet mould and skewer should be 
placed as in Plate, filled with aspic cream and truffles. 
Instead of the pastry between the chickens, very stiff 
aspic may be used and the vegetables laid on with 
liquefied aspic. (See Plate XII.) 

Quenelles of Pheasant a la Prince Albert 

Make some quenelles in the usual way with the 
breast meat of two pheasants. Mask them with a 
white sauce in which aspic and oysters have been 
introduced, the oysters having been chopped and 



102 COOKERY A LA MODE 

tammied. When the sauce has set, place some little 
shapes of cut truffle in the middle of each which have 
been dipped in aspic. Dish them en couronne on an 
ornamental border of pink aspic. In the centre serve 
champignons moistened with a little aspic jelly, so that 
they may adhere together to form a pyramid. Garnish 
with chopped aspic. 



Quails in Cases 

Take as many paper cases as there are birds, oil 
them, and put them into the oven for a few minutes 
to dry them. Put a table-spoonful of Perigord sauce 
into each case, place a quail in each, which has been 
stuffed with foie-gras forcemeat. Cook them in the 
oven, and when done pour over them Financiere 
sauce. Dish them up on a potato border. 



Quails a la Melba 

Take four or six boned quails, cut the legs off 
above the leg-bone. Make sufficient quenelle meat 
to fill their insides, and mix with it a little tongue 
and four large truffles. Chop up half a dozen smal 
white mushrooms (cooked), which also mix with the 
forcemeat. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat, close 
up the opening, and make each one into a round ball 
and tie up closely in a cloth. Let them cook for 
forty-five minutes. When cooked, they may be 
glazed if to be served hot. Arrange them in a circle 
on the dish, with some cockscombs. Slice truffles 



POULTRY AND GAME lOj 

and champignons in the middle. Pour some good 
veloute sauce over the quails. If this is desired cold, 
the backs must be masked with a rich veloute sauce 
in which aspic has been mixed. The sauce should 
be the consistency of rich cream. The quails should 
be ornamented with designs in truffle, and a mayon- 
naise should be poured over a salad served in the 
centre. The whole should be garnished with chopped 
aspic and blocks of aspic. 



Quails a la Meunier 

Bone and cook some quails. Stuff them with 
pate-de-foie-gras aux truffes which has been rubbed 
through a sieve, and a little whipped cream added to it. 
Form the quails into shapes of sacks. Make a rich 
white sauce with cream, into which a quarter of a 
pint of aspic has been mixed, and cover the sacked 
quails entirely over with it and put on ice. When 
set, make designs on each with truffles, and pour over 
each some very pale aspic jelly. Set to get cold, 
then trim and tie round the neck of each sack a very 
narrow strip of truffle. Arrange them on a red 
aspic mould, with chopped aspic in the centre, 
sprinkled with chopped pistachio-kernels. Garnish 
with aspic and chervil sprays. 



Turkey Medallions a la Cecil 

Cut the meat from the breast and wings of a 
turkey into delicately thin slices the size of a four- 



I04 COOKERY A LA MODE 

shilling piece. Lay these on a baking-tin, with a 
very little strong stock, peppered and salted. Cover 
with buttered paper, and put into a slow oven till 
done. Cut some cold tongue into the same-sized 
pieces as the turkey, and spread them with green 
butter. When the turkey is quite cold, lay a piece 
of the tongue on each piece of turkey. Dish on a 
mound of tomato aspic, with a potato and beetroot 
salad in the centre. 



Creme de Venison a la Danoise 

Cut some cold venison into very thin shavings. 
Make a rich Italienne sauce, into which mix a table- 
spoonful of red currant jelly. Pound all together in 
a mortar, then pass through a fine sieve, adding then 
some truffle peelings and a little good claret or port- 
wine. Make into quenelles and poach in stock. Then 
arrange them in a circle sauced with Italienne, sauce 
as above ; garnish with sprinkled parsley, and serve 
French beans in the centre. Claret is generally handed 
round with venison dishes. 



Wild Duck a la Serviette 

Take a wild duck, remove heart, liver, and 
gizzard, and mince them very finely with three 
shalots. Sprinkle well with black pepper, pabrika, 
and a little salt. Mix into a smooth paste. Stuff 
the duck with this, sew it up carefully, then roll the 
bird in a cloth folded in three and tie it up at each 



POULTRY AND GAME 105 

end like a sausage. Then have a panful of boiling, 
well salted water, and put in the duck, which has been 
well-salted. Let it cook for thirty-five minutes ; then 
remove it, and serve very hot. Send round it a 
garnish of sliced oranges, taking care there is no pith 
nor peel. Hand with an iced orange salad. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES 



Behold, the earth hath roots ; 

The bounteous housewife, Nature, on each bush 

Lays her full mess before you ' 

Tiinon of Athens, Act iv., Sc. iii. 



PLATE XV. 







tj 



~z ^ 






A, Asparagus ; B, Asparagus Tongs ; C, Rack for serving Asparagus on ; 

D, Sauceboat ; E, Potato Straws ; F, Stuffed Tomatoes ; 

G, Spinach with hard-boiled Eggs. 



VEGETABLES AND THE COOKERY OF 
VEGETABLES 

In cooking vegetables care must be taken to cook 
them sufficiently or they are indigestible. And in 
France and Germany we always find them well cooked ; 
and, consequently, they excel us in it ; and they make 
more of them than we do by the various ways of 
dressing them with gravy and cream. Vegetables 
should never be washed after they have been cut and 
sliced, and, when cooking, must be put into boiling 
and salted water, and the lid should be left off the 
saucepan. Great care is necessary in their washing 
to get rid of grit, earwigs, &c. 

Cauliflower, asparagus, French beans, &c., may 
sometimes have a bitter taste owing to accidents of 
culture, therefore, it is well to put a lump of sugar 
into the water, which will counteract the bitterness if 
there be any. 

When vegetables are a bad colour it is simply 
carelessness in not keeping the water boiling all the 
time and the lid raised. When cooked, the greens, 
&c., should be lifted out and put into a colander to 
drain, unless the kitchen possesses one of Braby's 
vegetable saucepans and strainers, in which the vege- 
tables can be cooked and drained in the same saucepan. 
I always use one, and it is far less trouble to the cooks, 
who in these days always like to spare themselves. 



no COOKERY A LA MODE 

It is a great mistake to squeeze the water from vege- 
tables ; it bruises them. 

Steaming vegetables is very much done abroad, 
which is done by placing them on one of the 'Rapid' 
steamers and steaming them till done. 

When vegetables are frosted, after preparing 
them for cooking, lay them in cold salted water all 
night, standing the vessel in which they are placed 
in a warm room. The vegetables must be quite 
covered with water. I recommend every housewife 
to keep in the scullery a wire vegetable rack shown in 
Plate XVI., it keeps the vegetables clean and fresh. 



Jerusalem Artichokes alia Parmigiana 

Wash and peel the artichokes, shaping them like 
pears of uniform size. Put two ounces of butter in a 
saucepan, and arrange the artichokes in circles in it. 
Strew over some pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; pour 
a quarter of a pint of good gravy over them, put the 
lid on, and simmer for half an hour, basting them 
occasionally. They should colour a deep yellow. 
Serve Morny sauce round them. 

The sauce is made with a quarter of a pint of 
white stock, which must simmer till reduced to one- 
half; add two ounces of grated Parmesan and 
parsley, and stir over the fire three minutes ; then 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, stirring slowly. 

Asparagus Patties 

Line some patty-cases with puff paste, bake them, 
and fill the insides with heads of asparagus that 



PLATE XVI. 




A, Vegetable Rack ; B, Asparagus Saucepan ; C, Brooklyn Boiler 
D, Brooklyn Fluted Crust Bread Pans ; E, Raisin Stoner. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES I I I 

have been boiled, and pour Irlandaise sauce over 
them. 

Carrot and Turnip Mould 

(To be eaten with Boiled Pork) 

Take some carrots, boil them in good stock. 
Mash them and pass them through a wire sieve, add 
pepper and salt to taste and a little butter ; put them 
into a border-mould. Mash some turnips in milk ; after 
boiling, add pepper and salt to taste and some cream ; 
beat them thick over the fire. Turn the carrots out 
of the border- mould, and put the turnip puree in the 
centre, piling it high. 

Truffles a la Milan 

Melt four ounces of fresh butter, add two ounces 
of good salad-oil, a little parsley, a shalot, a small 
onion, a clove of garlic, all minced, and fry them 
together. Peel two pounds of fresh truffles, slice and 
put them in the stewpan with pepper and salt to taste. 
When they are all thoroughly mixed, add a pinch of 
flour and a little hot fish stock. 

Boil a tumbler of Saumur (a light champagne), 
and add this also ; stew gently till everything is 
cooked and blended. 

Fry some sippets in butter, and pour the contents 
of the stewpan over the fried bread. 

The clove of garlic must be removed before the 
truffles are put in. 



112 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Surprise Tomatoes 

(Tomatoes en Surprise) 

Take some little tomato-moulds, and mask them 
thickly with red aspic jelly, place a small piece of foie- 
gras well truffled inside, fill up with the jelly, and close 
the moulds. Put on ice till ready to turn out ; place 
them on a bed of green aspic jelly. 

Stuffed Cabbages 

(Choux Farcies) 

Remove all the outer leaves from a couple of nice 
white cabbages, and wash them in salt and water 
then parboil them. Make a stuffing of some minced 
tongue, foie-gras, and fowl's liver, which must be 
mixed into a paste with the yolks of two eggs ; put 
this forcemeat between the leaves of the cabbages, 
taking care not to break them and not to spoil the shape 
of the cabbage. Flour the cabbages, dip them into 
the yolks of two eggs, and fry them delicately to a pale 
colour. Then cook them with butter and rich gravy. 
Send to table with fried sippets and pour the gravy over. 
Care must be taken not to over-cook the cabbages. 



Potatoes en Surprise (Twentieth Century) 

Take some large potatoes, boil them, cut them 
into halves, scoop out the potato, and leave the skins. 
Take some more uncooked potatoes, peel them, and cut 



DRESSED VEGETABLES II3 

them into little straws two inches long and seven- 
eighths of an inch wide ; fry them a pretty gold colour, 
and pile them up tastefully in the half skins. Sprinkle 
over a very little finely chopped parsley, and stand the 
potatoes on a bed of the potatoes taken from the skins 
and passed through a potato-masher and mixed with 
butter and a little milk, and put into a border mould. 

Mushrooms k la Tuileries 

Take half a dozen large mushrooms, mince some 
soft herring-roes, making about two ounces, the same 
amount of tomatoes mashed, a sprinkle of cayenne, 
salt to taste. Put this mixture into half a pint of 
Espagnole sauce and stew for six or seven minutes ; 
add a glass of marsala, and when nearly cold whisk 
a couple of eggs into it. Peel the mushrooms and 
put a spoonful of the mixture between two of them 
sandwich fashion, place a large piece of butter on the 
top one, and then bake them for six minutes. Serve 
them very hot within a border of potato straws. Some- 
times tomato sauce is handed with this dish. 

Spinach and Poached Eggs 

Cook two or three pounds of spinach according 
to the quantity required in the usual way ; when done, 
drain and tammy ; add an ounce of butter, half an 
ounce of flour, salt and pepper to taste, a small lump 
of sugar, and half a cupful of cream. Put back in 
saucepan and stir over fire ; arrange it on a dish in 
a mound with toast underneath, and place some 

I 



114 COOKERY A LA MODE 

poached eggs on the top ; sprinkle with a little very 
finely chopped parsley. 



Salad a la Redvers 

Chop up tomatoes quite small, add a bead of 
garlic and a shalot, and rub all through a sieve. 
Take four table-spoonfuls of aspic jelly and mix into 
the puree with an equal quantity of mayonnaise 
sauce. Decorate a round mould with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs, the yolks and whites separately stamped 
in fancy rounds and stars ; then line a plain mould 
with pale aspic, and arrange the slices of egg in 
the mould in tiers one above the other, yellow and 
white alternately, till the mould is full. Every here 
and there place a sprig of chervil. Set the mould on 
ice, and when quite set fill the centre with the tomato 
puree. Place on ice again and then turn out, garnish 
with small salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce 
round. Arrange watercress in a garland on the top 
and sprinkle pale pink aspic all over it. 



Turnip Pasties 

Peel two pounds of turnips, cut them into thin 
slices, pepper and salt them, and put in a small piece 
of bacon. 

Make some puff pastry in some patty-pans and 
bake. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES II5 

Vegetable Marrow a I'Andalousie 

Take a Spanish onion, cut it into thin slices, also 
three tomatoes, and slice them also ; fry them in 
butter. Next cut a vegetable marrow into neat 
square pieces ; add some nicely flavoured white stock, 
salt and pepper, with a dust of cayenne. Simmer all 
together till cooked, and serve very hot. 

Vegetable Marrow k la Firenza 

Slice a couple of vegetable marrows as thinly as 
a cucumber, dry and fry them in very hot butter with 
pepper, salt and pabrika. Shake over a little grated 
Parmesan cheese. 

Cauliflower a la Biarritz 

(Italian recipe) 

Take a cauliflower and cut it up roughly ; after 
washing and draining it, put it in a stewpan with two 
cloves of garlic, three cloves, a little parsley, basil, 
and marjoram, and an ounce of butter. Cook this 
slowly for fifteen minutes, then moisten it with veal or 
chicken broth till the cauliflower is cooked. Have 
ready some Patna rice which has been cooked in 
stock, add some grated Parmesan cheese and a table- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy, and mix up all 
together. 



Il6 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Tomatoes and Spinach 

Take a fancy border-mould and put in two pounds 
of cooked spinach, cooked as in recipe ' Spinach and 
Poached Eggs,' page 113. Keep the border-mould with 
the spinach in hot whilst the centre mixture is prepar- 
ing. Beat up half a dozen eggs and mash four or five 
tomatoes, and mix all together, flavouring with half a 
tea-spoonful of shalot vinegar, a trifle of cayenne, and 
salt to taste ; scramble all together in a frying-pan 
with two onces of butter till the mixture is set, then 
take the spinach-mould and turn it out and place the 
egg and tomato mixture inside. 



SAUCES 



'I smell it — 
Upon my life it will do wondrous well ' 

Henry IV. i. 3 



' Thou comest in such a questionable shape 
That I will speak to thee' 

Hamlet i. 4 



SAUCES 

There are very few cooks who really take the 
trouble to make sauces properly ; they hurry over 
them, and therefore often send up to table either a 
species of paper-hanger's paste or a thin watery fluid. 
It takes a little time to make sauce properly, and, 
as on sauces and gravies the perfection of entries 
depends, even for a simple hash or mince, it is most 
necessary to make them properly. One often sees 
butter and flour rolled together in any haphazard 
fashion, and put into the other ingredients and boiled 
till thick and never strained through a sieve. It 
takes them about five minutes and they think it will 
do. Now, I well know that many excellent cookery- 
books and good cooks advise the rolling of flour 
together and then frying. No doubt it can be 
done so and well. But as, as a rule, cooks hurry over 
their cooking, it is not always successful. 

The following way of making sauces is the method 
I always teach my cook to do, and the result is that 
the sauce is invariably smooth. 

All sauces spring from two sauces, brown and 
white, and it is the different flavourings which make 
the innumerable sauces of which these two kinds 
form the basis. The first thing in making a white 
sauce is to take a table-spoonful of flour and mix it in 



I20 COOKERY A LA MODE 

a basin till it is a smooth paste. Whilst doing this, 
have a small stewpan on the fire with a piece of butter 
about the size of a large plum in it ; when the butter 
is melted and very hot, add to it the paste ; give it a 
stir round, adding a little salt, more milk, and what- 
ever flavourings are required ; stir over the fire till it 
begins to thicken, then let it boil till it thickens and 
the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan and coats 
the spoon. If it becomes too thick, add half a gill of 
cold water and boil up again, then pass through a fine 
strainer into the tureen or dish it is to be served in. 

If cooked some time before it is wanted, keep 
the saucepan in a larger saucepan filled with boiling 
water, but be sure not to let it boil again. The 
' gourmet boilers ' are capital things for keeping food 
warm and simmering ; they are made in earthenware 
and put inside a stewpan of hot water, and sauces, 
&c., may be left in these boilers for hours and they will 
never boil, and for those persons who do not possess a 
bain-marie they are a sine qua non. (See Plate 
XVII.) 

Brown sauces are made exactly in the same way 
as white, except that flour is mixed first with cold 
stock or gravy instead of milk, and added to the 
boiling butter in the same way. 

Of course, where oysters, button mushrooms, 
lobster, shrimps, capers, &c., are used, the sauce must 
be strained before these are put in, and mushrooms 
must be cooked first. I have heard cooks grumble 
and say, ' What a fuss and trouble to make sauce this 
way ! ' But it is no trouble and only takes two or three 
minutes longer than the usual rough way of mixing 



PLATE XVI J. 




A, Clourmet Boila ; B, Ditto, whilst cooking ; C, Pie-dish ; D, Queen's 
Pudding-boiler ; E, Chafing-dish ; F, Salamander. 



SAUCES I 2 I 

all together ; and certainly the sauce repays the 
trouble, and unless care and pains are taken in 
whatever is cooked, success will not be triumphant. 

I will give some recipes for different sauces, both 
brown and white, the foundations to be made as I 
have just directed. 

Gravy is an important factor in cooking. I mean 
the gravy which comes from joints when roasting. 
To make this gravy fit for table, take away the 
dripping-pan, and pour off slowly from a corner of it 
all the fat. At the bottom of the dripping-pan there 
will be a brown sediment, which is the concentrated 
gravy. After the fat has been poured off, pour on to 
the dripping-pan half a pint of boiling water, and with 
it wash off all the brown sediment. Stir up all the 
water and then pour it out through a strainer into 
the saucepan, which boil up and afterwards pour into 
the dish. 



Ambassador's Sauce 



Make half a pint of brown sauce, add a table- 
spoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of Clarence's 
cayenne sauce, one of Worcester, and one of Hienz's 
tomato ketchup and a gill of port wine. Boil up, 
tammy, then stand in the bain-marie or gourmet 
boiler till wanted. 

Anchovy Sauce 

Prepare some white sauce, add a little cayenne, 
and add when the sauce is over the fire a teaspoonful 



122 COOKERY A LA MODE 

of essence of anchovy. To render it a little piquant 
add a few drops of chilli vinegar. Many persons 
think this an improvement. 



Apple Sauce 

Take half a dozen good cooking-apples, pare and 
core them. Then put them into a stewpan with 
just sufficient water to moisten them ; boil till soft. 
Add a little Demerara sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of a pigeon's egg. Beat up with a fork, and 
place in the tureen, &c. 



Sauce a I'Aurore 

Make a white sauce with three-quarters of a pint 
of veal gravy. Add the white outside of a mush- 
room, a small onion, a sprinkle of cayenne, and a 
table-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Simmer 
gently for twenty minutes until reduced to half a 
pint. Strain, and return to stewpan, and place on 
fire till it boils. Then strain through fine tammy, 
and add a large spoonful of lobster butter, half a 
tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon-juice, and 
keep hot. The sauce must not boil after the lobster 
butter has been added. 



Bearnaise Sauce 

Chop up four shalots, put them in a stewpan 
with half a gill of vinegar and half a gill of tarragon 



SAUCES 123 

vinegar, and boil till reduced to a table-spoonful. 
Add three yolks of egg one at a time, whisking each 
one well, and be sure it is not allowed to boil. When 
the eggs are in, remove the stewpan from the fire, 
and add two ounces of butter in small pieces, taking 
care each piece is dissolved before adding the rest, as 
if the butter is added too quickly the sauce will oil. 
Strain, and it is ready for use. 



Bdchamel, or White Sauce 

Fry a small carrot, one stick of celery, one 
shalot, a bay-leaf, a little salt, and some pepper- 
corns for a few minutes, but they must not brown. 
Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and add 
to it one and a half ounce of flour that has been 
smoothly mixed with a little cold milk or pale stock. 
Put in the vegetables, whisk in a pint of milk, and 
let it boil for a quarter of an hour, or till it thickens. 
Then strain, re-heat, and add one gill of cream. For 
very superior white sauce add two or three button 
mushrooms to the vegetables. 



Beurre Noir 

Warm some butter in a frying-pan till it becomes 
a dark brown colour. Cook a little vinegar in the 
same frying-pan. Reduce, and add to the cold 
brown butter. Warm in a saucepan, season with salt 
and pepper, and serve. 



124 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Black Sauce 

Brown two table-spoonfuls of flour and a chopped 
onion in butter. Add some dark gravy, a bay-leaf, 
salt and pepperto taste, a dozen crushed juniper berries, 
two spoonfuls of black currant jelly, one of vinegar, 
and a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar. Boil and strain. 

This is a German recipe, and is intended to serve 
with game and venison. 



Bordelaise Sauce k la Gouffd 

Add to half a pint of sauterne one pinch of 
mignonette pepper, and one table-spoonful of shalots 
previously blanched and chopped. Reduce it by 
boiling to a quarter of a pint, add half a pint of 
Espagnole sauce. Boil for six minutes, and put in 
one table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Skim and 
strain. 

Bread Sauce 

Take a pint of milk, and boil in it an onion stuck 
with two cloves, a small shalot, and some pepper- 
corns, and bring to the boil, and then let stand for 
an hour on the stove. Then take the onion, shalot, 
and peppercorns from the sauce. Have ready two 
ounces of freshly grated bread-crumbs, and put them 
into the milk with half an ounce of butter. Add 
salt to taste. Boil up the sauce for ten minutes, and 
it will be ready to serve. A good table-spoonful of 
cream added to it is, of course, an improvement. 



SAUCES 125 

Brown Sauce 

Take six mushrooms washed and peeled, one 
carrot, one shalot, and one small onion. Cut them 
up and fry them in two ounces of butter till a nice 
brown, then stir in one and a half ounce of flour, and 
lastly pour in one pint of light hock. Let boil for 
ten minutes, then skim, and season with pepper and 
salt, then strain. 



Caper Sauce 

Make some white sauce, add a couple of table- 
spoonfuls of capers with some of their vinegar, chop 
them in halves and stir over the fire, stirring well. 



Caramel Sauce 

Put two handfuls of castor sugar into a stewpan, 
stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till dissolved 
and slightly brown, add not quite half a pint of water, 
a dessert-spoonful of essence of vanilla, and one pound 
of lump sugar. Boil this to a thick syrup. 



Chateaubriand Sauce 

Melt a little glaze in a little white Rhine wine, 
stir in some Espagnole sauce, and thicken with maitre- 
d'h6tel butter. 



126 COOKERY A LA MODE 



Chaudfroid Sauce 



Mix together a gill of Bechamel sauce, a gill of 
whipped cream, half a pint of liquefied aspic jelly, and 
boil till reduced one quarter ; keep it well skimmed, 
tammy, and use. 

When chaudfroid sauce is required brown, use 
Espagnole sauce instead of the Bechamel. 



Cranberry Sauce 

Take some bottled cranberries if the fresh are not 
to be had, and cook them in just enough water to 
cover them and stew till the berries are soft. Add a 
table-spoonful of cream and a little sugar. 



Chilli Sauce 

Take six tomatoes, peel them and chop them 
with a large onion and one and a half chilli pods ; boil 
an hour, add one and a half cupful of white vinegar, 
half an ounce of sugar, and one small table-spoonful 
of salt. Let it boil for two hours slowly. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Peel a couple of cucumbers, one small onion, and 
cut them in slices half an inch thick ; fry them in a 
little butter till lightly browned. Dredge them with 
pepper and salt, and simmer them till tender in as 
much white sauce as will cover them. 



SAUCES 127 

Sauce a la Diable 

Boil two eggs hard and then chop them and pour 
on them a few drops of tarragon vinegar, pound in a 
mortar, adding drop by drop two table-spoonfuls of 
salad oil, then gradually drop three table-spoonfuls of 
port wine, one of mustard, the juice of a lemon, white 
pepper, salt to taste, a sharp apple finely chopped, a 
pinch of sugar, and just enough vinegar to flavour the 
whole. Stir well together till all traces of the oil 
disappear. 

Dutch Sauce 

Make half a pint of melted butter and put it, with 
the yolks of four or five eggs, into a stewpan. Stand 
it in a large saucepan of boiling water, and whisk it 
well over the fire till it thickens. It must not boil, or 
it will curdle. Season to taste with salt and cayenne, 
and at the last stir in two table-spoonfuls of lemon- 
juice. 

D'Uxelles Sauce 

Take two table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 
one of chopped parsley, the same of chopped shalots, 
a head of garlic, a little scraped bacon, a bay-leaf, a 
bouquet garni, salt and pepper to taste. Warm up 
in fresh butter. Moisten with white wine, reduce it 
and pass it through a sieve. 

Stir in a little white thickening, and serve with 
poultry or game entrees. 



128 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Espagnole Sauce 

(Spanish Sauce) 

Cut up some slices of ham, some veal trimmings, 
and fowl's giblets, and place in a saucepan with a 
lump of butter mixed with flour, and stir over the fire 
till a nice brown colour ; moisten with stock, half a 
pint of chablis, and the juice of a lemon. Simmer for 
several hours, then pass through a fine strainer, and 
thicken with a little glaze. 



Fennel Sauce 

Take a large handful of green fennel, take away 
all stalks and put the sprigs into a saucepan with cold 
water and a tiny bit of soda. 

Boil for five minutes, then drain, chop fine, and 
mix well with half an ounce of butter. Rub through 
a sieve, and add this pulp to half a pint of white 
sauce. 

Financiere Sauce 

Mince some raw ham, enough to fill three table- 
spoonfuls, some truffle trimmings, mushrooms, a 
bouquet garni, three black peppercorns ; put these into 
equal quantities of stock and white wine. Reduce to 
half the quantity, skim well and tammy ; stir some 
stock into a little brown thickening in a separate 
saucepan. Mix all together and reduce. 



SAUCES 129 

Sauce Framboise 

(Spanish recipe) 

Beat up the yolks of two eggs, and add drop by 
drop a gill of olive-oil, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of shalot vinegar, a 
few chopped capers, a couple of boned sardines finely 
minced, and a table-spoonful of raspberry jelly. 

Geneva Sauce 

(For Fish) 

Take some fish stock, mix in flour, boil some 
butter, then add the stock and stir ovqr the fire till 
brown ; add a claret-glassful of claret and half a pint 
of fish stock, a bouquet garni, salt and pepper, two 
sliced onions, and two or three chopped mushrooms. 
Let them cook well together and serve. 

Green Sauce 

Pound a large handful of parsley in a mortar, boil 
and add eight boned anchovies and half a pint of 
mayonnaise sauce gradually in which two table-spoon- 
fuls of chervil, tarragon, and chives have been mixed. 

Ham Sauce 

Cut up half a pound of cooked ham into dice. 
Pound in a mortar, moisten with stock, add a table- 
spoonful of Soubise sauce and the same of Espacrnole 
and tammy ; then stir in a pint of stock, and when it 

K 



130 COOKERY A LA MODE 

is ready to serve stir a tumblerful of chablis and a 
lump of fresh butter. 

Horse-radish Sauce 

Scrape some horse-radish finely, add a full tea- 
spoonful of condensed milk (Milkmaid brand), a 
mustard-spoonful of mustard, a pinch of salt, and a 
table-spoonful of white vinegar ; stir all well together, 
then add a gill of stiffly whipped cream. 



Iced Champagne Sauce 

Put the yolk and white of an egg into a stewpan, 
a table-spoonful of cream, a /ittle sugar, and a tumbler- 
ful of champagne. Place the stewpan in broken ice 
and salt. Whip up all the ingredients as quickly as 
possible, and serve. 

Cherry Sauce 

Put two handfuls of cherries in a stewpan with 

our table-spoonfuls of castor sugar, a glassful of claret, 

and a grate of lemon. Let it boil up a few minutes, 

then thicken it with two table-spoonfuls of fecule de 

pomme-de-terre mixed with cold water. 



Horse-radish Sauce a la Tedesco 

Scrape a thick stick of horse-radish and grate it 
fine. Grate also six ounces of almonds. Mix in a 



SAUCES 



131 



table-spoonful of flour, add cream to make it a proper 
consistency and a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Stir over the fire till it thickens. To be eaten cold. 

Irlandaise Sauce 

Take a pint of sauce Espagnole, put it into a stew- 
pan with a glass of port wine, a table-spoonful of red- 
currant jelly, the juice of a lemon, a bay-leaf, a few 
peppercorns, a bouquet garni, a tomato, and a piece 
of chopped shalot. Boil for a quarter of an hour, and 
pass through a sieve. 

This sauce can be eaten hot or cold ; if the latter 
half a pint of aspic jelly should be added. 

Italian Sauce 

Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a saucepan 
and let it simmer with two table-spoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, one of chopped shalots, and the same of 
minced mushrooms ; add a tumblerful of sauterne. 
Reduce the sauce and add a tumblerful of veloute 
sauce and a gill of stock. Boil over a quick fire, skim 
off all grease, and when the sauce is thick enough 
take it off the fire and keep it warm in a bain-marie. 
Where no bain-marie is at hand, stand in a preserving- 
pan with hot water in it. 

Lemon Sauce 

Mix together a couple of ounces of bacon scraped, 
two lemons peeled and cut into slices, two onions 

K2 



132 COOKERY A LA MODE 

chopped small, one ounce of butter and a table- 
spoonful of water or milk. Cook and pass through a 
sieve. 



Madras Sauce 

Cut up some onions into dice and fry them in 
dripping till they are a nice colour. 

Then mix in a basin a table-spoonful of flour, the 
same of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of mulliga- 
tawny paste, the juice of half a lemon, a table- 
spoonful of chutney, and a dessert-spoonful of desic- 
cated cocoa-nut. Mix these well together, then add 
some salt and the fried onion ; put all in a stewpan 
with a pint of good stock, and put on the fire to 
simmer for one hour. Then pass through a sieve and 
give a boil-up. 



Mayonnaise Sauce 

Put two eggs into a basin with a salt-spoonful of 
sauce, a little mignonette pepper ; stir with a wooden 
spoon, and pour in drop by drop half a pint of the 
best olive-oil, every now and then a tea-spoonful of 
vinegar, till all the oil is used ; stir in finely chopped 
cloves and tarragon. If chervil and tarragon are not 
handy, mince a small onion and add a few drops of 
tarragon vinegar, and for a fish mayonnaise add a few 
drops of essence of anchovy. 



SAUCES 133 



Mousseline Sauce 



Mix together equal parts of mayonnaise sauce, 
whipped aspic, and whipped cream ; flavour with 
a few drops of tarragon vinegar and a sprinkle of 
paprika. 



Mushroom Sauce 

Trim and wash the mushrooms. Make a white 
sauce, add the juice of a lemon, put in pepper and salt, 
and cook the mushrooms in it. If brown mushroom 
sauce is required, add a table-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup to it. 



Mustard Sauce 

Mix in a dessert-spoonful of mustard flour in a 
table-spoonful of flour, and make as a white sauce, 
adding a few drops of vinegar. This sauce requires 
good stirring. 



Orleans Sauce 

Take two table-spoonfuls of vinegar and add to it 
a dessert-spoonful of rich gravy, or some of Driessen's 
foundation sauces, and let all cook together ; then 
work in gradually two ounces of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of minced parsley which has been sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. 



134 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Oyster Sauce 

Take a dozen deep-sea oysters, beard them, and 
chop them in two or three pieces, according to the 
size of the oysters, and squeeze lemon and cayenne 
over them. Take the Hquor and put it into a sauce- 
pan with the beards. Scald all together for two 
minutes, take off fire and strain. 

Mix in a basin a table-spoonful of cold milk and 
a table- spoonful of flour together. Add the strained 
oyster liquor and a few drops of anchovy essence. 
Put in a saucepan half an ounce of butter ; when 
it boils, add the mixture from the basin and cook 
over the fire till it boils and thickens. Now add a 
good table-spoonful of cream, and boil up once more. 
Then add the oysters and serve. 

Parsley Sauce 

Make some white sauce in the usual manner, 
then add a good handful of chopped parsley, and add 
it to the sauce with a little green colouring and a 
table-spoonful of cream (though the latter is not 
necessary), and boil up. 



Pease-pudding Sauce 

This sauce is instead of pease pudding, and is 
much appreciated. Take some pea-flour and mix it 
with some good stock, a tea-spoonful of unmade mus- 
tard, and pepper and salt to taste. Add, according 



SAUCES 135 

to the quantity, one or two good table-spoonfuls of 
cream. Serve in a sauceboat with either hot or cold 
boiled pork. 



Perigueux Sauce 

Cut half a pound of raw ham into dice, and 
put into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, one 
shalot, one onion sliced, and a pinch of mignonette 
pepper. Fry till the onion is a pale brown and pour 
in half a pint of marsala. Reduce one half and add 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce, half a pint of white 
stock, and a table-spoonful of chopped truffles pre- 
viously cooked in marsala. Simmer for twenty 
minutes, skim and strain into another pan, and 
reduce till it coats the spoon. 



Sauce Piquante 

Cut up a shalot, half a carrot, three mushrooms, 
and fry till brown in an ounce of butter ; then stir in 
an ounce of flour and half a pint of brown stock. 
Add a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a table-spoonful of 
Worcester or Reading sauce, and let all simmer for 
twenty minutes ; skim and add a pinch of salt, cay- 
enne, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar and strain. 



Poivrade Sauce 

Shred a head of celery, two carrots, two onions, 
one shalot, one clove of garlic, one turnip two leeks. 



136 COOKERY A LA MODE 

three tomatoes ; put them in a stewpan with a 
quarter of a pound of lean ham and two ounces of 
butter. Fry them, but not very brown. Add half a 
pint of vinegar and let boil till quite reduced ; then 
stir in three ounces of flour and three pints of stock. 
Add a bouquet garni, six cloves, twenty-four pepper- 
corns, and pepper and salt to taste ; stir well ; simmer 
for one hour ; pass through a sieve, boil up, and serve. 



Port-wine Sauce 

Put a wineglassful of port in a stewpan, a little 
thin lemon rind, a small pot of red-currant jelly, and 
stir up all together till the jelly is dissolved ; then 
strain very hot into a sauceboat. 



Portuguese Sauce 

Cook two and a half ounces of fresh butter with 
a yolk of an ^%^, a little lemon-juice, salt and black 
pepper to taste ; stir till the sauce is quite hot, take 
it off the fire, and stir till it thickens. Serve as soon 
as made. 



Ravigote Sauce 

Take equal quantities of white wine and stock 
and reduce. Season with chopped tarragon, chervil 
and chives, some lemon-juice, salt and pepper to 
taste ; stir the sauce till quite thick over a quick fire 
but it must not boil. 



SAUCES 137 



Reform Sauce 



Cut up into strips like Julienne, vegetables, truffles, 
mushrooms, lean ham, hard whites of eggs, and 
gherkins. Put them into a stewpan with six table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar ; boil, and reduce to one-third. 
Pour in half a pint of Espagnole sauce and reduce 
again ; when thick enough, add two table-spoonfuls 
of red-currant jelly, and serve. 



Remoulade Sauce 

Chop up parsley, chives, anchovies, and a bead of 
garlic ; add a little mustard and salt, stir in good salad- 
oil and whip till the sauce is thick. 



Sauce Robert 

Dissolve a piece of butter the size of a walnut in 
a saucepan and fry with it two onions finely chopped ; 
when lightly coloured, pour in a wineglassful of 
vinegar and simmer for four minutes ; stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour, half a pint of stock, a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of Armour's extract or 0x0, and the same 
of salt. Stir all over the fire for twenty minutes, add 
a tea-spoonful of mustard, the same of mushroom 
ketchup, and one of Worcester sauce, and at the last a 
spoonful of port wine. 



138 COOKERY A LA MODE 



Schiller Sauce 



Put a piece of butter, a couple of shalots, and a 
minced onion into a stewpan and let them fry till 
cooked and brown ; add half a pint of brown gravy, 
a quarter of a pound of tamarinds, three cloves, a 
bay-leaf, a little black pepper and salt, and a wine 
glassful of claret ; let all simmer for twenty minutes, 
add some Parisian essence to colour it and a quarter 
of a spoonful of brown sugar ; strain and serve. 

Shalot Sauce 

Put six shalots in a stewpan with one small bay- 
leaf, a sprig of thyme, and one gill of white stock. 
Reduce to a glaze, add one pint of good gravy 
Simmer for ten minutes and strain. 

Soubise Sauce 

Peel some onions, blanch them, and put them in a 
stewpan with some white stock just to cover them ; 
simmer till the onions are done, then reduce with the 
same quantity of white sauce as there is onion ; add 
a little pepper, salt, and cayenne ; pass through a 
tammy and serve. 

Supreme Sauce 

Put a quarter of a pound of butter into the stew- 
pan, add when dissolved twelve white peppercorns, 
a little parsley, and two ounces of flour. Cook over 



SAUCES 139 

the fire, stirring all the time, for ten minutes, then add 
one and a half pint of white stock ; stir again till 
it boils, add the juice of half a lemon, a little salt, 
trimmings of mushrooms, and half a pint of cream ; 
tammy and serve. 



Iced Swedish Sauce 

Mix together half a pint of thick mayonnaise, two 
table-spoonfuls of grated horse-radish, a gill of 
whipped cream, and half a gill of aspic. Place on ice 
till wanted, then cut into little squares and serve. 



Sweet and Sharp Sauce 

(Italian recipe) 

Take a good dessert-spoonful of castor sugar and 
pour over it two-thirds of a pint of vinegar. The 
Italians use one pound of pine kernels in this sauce, 
but if these are not to be had use half a pound of 
split sweet almonds. Put these with half a pound 
of currants and half a cup of grated chocolate into 
a stewpan, add the sweetened vinegar, stir and mix 
well, and place on the fire till it boils. 



Tarragon Sauce 

Take a small handful of tarragon and boil in a 
pint of milk. When soft, take it out. Chop up finely, 
pass through sieve, and mix with a small piece of 
butter. Melt an ounce of butter ; add half an ounce 



140 COOKERY A LA MODE 

of flour. Mix and add gradually the milk in which 
the tarragon was boiled. Let it boil up three times. 
Take off the fire and add the yolk of an egg beaten 
up with a little cold white stock, then add some of 
the tarragon puree and a table-spoonful of cream. 



Tartare Sauce 

Chop up the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs with 
a shalot, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, the same 
of chervil, a little salt, pepper, and mustard ; add a 
little salad-oil. Pound all to a smooth paste, put in 
more oil to thicken it, then enough tarragon vinegar 
to flavour it sharply. 

Tomato Sauce 

Skin the tomatoes and press out the juice. 
Saute a couple of onions in butter, add the tomatoes, 
with a bouquet garni, half a chilli, a head of garlic, 
salt and pepper, a little cayenne pepper to taste, and 
cook gently for forty-five minutes. Pass through 
a sieve, put again into the stewpan and reduce. 
Thicken and boil up. It is best thickened with some 
brown thickening previously prepared. 

Truffle Sauce 

Mince the truffles finely and stew in butter, and 
add Espagnole sauce. Truffle parings are to be 
bought in bottles which are very handy for this sauce. 



SAUCES 141 

Villeroi Sauce 

Warm some butter, stir in a little flour and white 
stock, add an onion stuck with cloves, some chopped 
ham, mushroom trimmings, and a bouquet of mixed 
herbs. Boil for twenty-five minutes. Pass though a 
sieve. Thicken with yolks of eggs and cream. 



ENTREMETS AND SWEETS 



* Make your transparent sweetmeats truly nice 
With Indian sugar and Arabian spice, 
And let your various creams enriched be 
With swelling fruit just ravished from the tree ' 

Dr. King 



PLATE XV in. 







-^a ;a.nfflWl»i»afe,ni- UjaMBiMlPa 









4. 




1. Ballettes a la Biliard. 

2. Chartreuse a la Reine. 



3. Petits Gateaux a TElysee. 

4. Ballettes a la Joujou. 



SWEETS OF ALL KINDS 

In making sweet dishes of all kinds it behoves the 
cook to be patient and careful, and to have all the 
ingredients good, particularly eggs, cream, and milk, 
and to keep all the utensils wholly for that purpose. 
Sieves must be kept delicately clean, and always 
dipped into hot water before they are used. 

To ice cakes and biscuits, icing sugar must be 
used, and should be either pounded or run through a 
sieve first, as it is often lumpy. 

In whipping cream, if it comes slowly, the white 
of an egg whipped in will hasten matters. 

There is a flat whisk similar in shape to a battle- 
dore, which, I find, whips cream better than aught else ; 
and the best egg-beater I have seen is a spiral elastic- 
wire one. A palette-knife is another necessity where 
much icing has to be done ; which knife is always 
useful, as it answers also for saucing fowls and other 
things. 

In making creams, the less gelatine or isinglass 
should be used as possible because they make them 
so stiff. I think, if some calf s-foot jelly were mixed 
in with them, cooks would never wish to use the 
former again ; though perhaps, in the hottest weather, 
a very little might be used. 



146 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Apricot Cream a la Princesse 

Make a cream in the usual way, flavoured with 
apricots rubbed through a sieve with a little noyau ; 
colour with apricot yellow colouring. 

Have a mould with a fanciful top, in which put in 
some clear jelly with gold leaf sprinkled in whilst it 
is in a half-liquid state. When this is set, add in the 
cream. 

When turned out, garnish with little tufts of pink 
and white jelly alternating round. (See Plate XXII.) 

Apricot Solid 

Take one dozen apricots, put them with the iuice 
and sugar into a glass dish. Boil ten ounces of sugar 
in a quart of cream with a few peach-leaves. When 
it has stopped boiling a few minutes, pour it into the 
juice, but do not stir it too much. Strawberries can 
be cooked thus, and are very delicious, flavoured with 
lemon-juice : it is then called strawberry solid. 

Ballettes a la Joujou 

Take some ballette-moulds, make some calf's-foot 
jelly ; divide it into six portions ; colour one carmine 
and flavour with rum punch ; colour another portion 
with green, into which some cream has been mixed 
and flavour with maraschino ; another portion colour 
with pink, that is, cream mixed with a little carmine 
and flavoured with noyau ; another portion colour with 
apricot jelly, flavour with coffee and cream ; another 
portion with simply cream flavoured with vanilla, and 



SWEETS 147 

the last portion colour with damson blue mixed with 
cream to make a good blue, flavour with brandy or 
sherry. Put each of these portions into a ballette- 
mould, put on ice till firm, turn out, and then divide 
each ballette into six portions ; then join the six por- 
tions into three colours, such as red, green, and coffee, 
and put back six into each ballette-mould, varying the 
colours in each. Pour in just a little plain liquid jelly 
through the aperture and put on ice; when again 
turned out, they will look like children's balls. (See 
Plate XVIII.) 

Ballettes a la Billard 

Make some clear jelly, divide it into eight equal 
portions ; flavour each differently and colour one red, 
one pink, one green, one yellow, one white, one blue, 
one brown, and one black. 

The pink colouring is made by adding white 
cream to the jelly, which is coloured with cochineal ; 
white by mixing cream with the jelly ; blue by mix- 
ing damson-blue with cream ; brovv^n with essence of 
coffee and cream worked into the jelly ; black, black- 
currant jelly in which a little gelatine has been 
mixed. Have eight ballette-moulds ready and fill 
them, a different colour in each. Put on ice ; when 
frozen, turn out and serve. (See Plate XVIII.) 

Banana Blanc Mange 

Soak an ounce of gelatine in a pint of cold water 
add the strained juice of a lemon with half a pint of 

L 2 



148 COOKERY A LA MODE 

castor sugar ; set over till dissolved, taking care it 
does not boil. Strain, and let it get cold. Take 
three bananas, mash them well and beat them ; then 
whip as stiffly as possible the whites of two eggs, 
which add to the banana pulp and beat again till well 
mixed. Now put in the gelatine, adding a little 
gradually, stirring and beating the whole time, for at 
least fifteen minutes. Set in a cool place till wanted, 
and serve with it custard sauce flavoured with black- 
berry brandy or plain brandy. 



Surprise Mushrooms 

(Champignons en Surprise) 

Take some mushroom-moulds, line the bottom 
part with a cream flavoured with either vanilla or 
curagoa. The upper part of the mould should be 
made with chocolate cream, and in the little cavity 
white cream must be placed. Put the parts separ- 
ately on ice, and when set turn out the upper or 
chocolate-moulds and place them on the top of the 
lower moulds ; put on ice again, and turn out on a bed 
of green jelly flavoured with curacoa. 

If green curagoa is used to flavour the jelly, it will 
not require any more flavouring. (See Plate XX.) 



Barberry Cream 

(Creme a I'Epine Vinette) 

Take half a pint of barberry jelly and half a 
tablet of Chivers' calfs-foot jelly ; mix it with a pint 



SWEETS 149 

of whipped cream. Stir over a slow fire till the jelly 
is dissolved. 

When removed from the fire, add a little cochi- 
neal, sweeten to taste, beat to a froth, and pour into a 
mould to set. 

Brandy Cherries in Masquerade 

Take a bottle of brandy cherries, drain the brandy 
from them, and dust them over with sugar and flour 
mixed. 

Make an icing with the white of one egg and 
enough icing sugar to be sufficiently stiff, dip each 
cherry into this, holding the fruit by the stem. Lay 
them in the screen or some warm place to set. Should 
the cherries not be all well covered, retouch with the 
icing. When they are firm, arrange them tastefully 
in a dish with asparagus fern or maidenhair. (See 
Plate XXIII.) 

Bordure k la Beaconsfield 

The moulds for this entremet are to be procured 
at Jones Brothers. 

Make a cake mixture by beating up three eggs 
and four ounces of castor sugar to a cream, add four 
ounces of flour and four ounces of dissolved butter, 
which must be nearly cold ; mix well and put into 
the little Savarin-moulds and bake. For the decora- 
tion of the mould prepare a custard with two yolks 
of eggs in a gill of milk and a piece of sugar, warm it 
on the fire, add a leaf of gelatine and some red 



150 COOKERY A LA MODE 

colouring, then let it get cold ; or apricot yellow may 
be used for the colouring. Line the bordure- mould 
with lemon jelly, and garnish the flowers on the top 
by means of an icing bag with the custard ; then line 
the mould with clear lemon jelly ; then place in the 
Madeleine cake and fill up with more jelly. When set, 
turn out and serve with either fruit or cream ice in 
the centre. 

Californian Jelly 

Take a couple of ounces of pistachio kernels, 
blanch them in boiling water for two seconds, then 
throw them into cold for the same time ; dry them in a 
cloth and rub the skins off; cut the kernels into shreds 
as fine as possible. 

Have ready some liquid but nearly set clear jelly 
flavoured with maraschino, then take some gold leaf 
(about five leaves) and blow it into the jelly and stir the 
leaf with a fork, breaking it into tiny morsels and 
stirring the whole time ; then add the shred pistachio- 
nuts, then place it into the mould or little moulds, 
and place on ice till wanted. (See Plate XXII.) 



Twentieth-century Jelly 

Make a pint of clear jelly flavoured with lemon, 
and before it sets, but after it is cool, whisk till it 
becomes white ; when it is almost set, whip in some 
brandy cherries which have been drained from the 
brandy. Fill a mould with this and set on ice and 



SWEETS I 5 I 

turn out. A little of the jelly coloured red should be 
put into the mould first and allowed to set. A little 
of the brandy put into a cream-and-sugar sauce 
might be handed with it. 



Chartreuse a la Reine 

Line a plain round mould with pale calfs-foot 
jelly with alternate squares of lemon jelly coloured 
red and squares of jelly mixed with cream in a chess- 
board pattern. Decorate the top, as in the plate, 
with jelly and cream ; the jelly must be made 
stiff, so that it can be cut into the devices. Whip 
some cream, sweeten and flavour with fresh straw- 
berries, and fill up the mould and put on ice ; when 
sufficiently frozen, turn out and decorate the centre 
with a little chopped jelly like a wreath, and in the 
centre of that pile a little whipped red jelly ; or a little 
fruit, such as two or three strawberries, can be placed 
in the middle with angelica cut in strips and placed 
like leaves, or a bunch of red currants, just as suits 
the decorator's taste. (See Plate XVIII.) 



Coffee Cannelons 

Mix four ounces of castor sugar with three table 
spoonfuls of distilled coffee essence and a dessert- 
spoonful of flour. Add the whisked white of an egg 
to make a paste. Take pieces the size of a walnut, and 
roll them out very thin ; place them on a buttered tin 
and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Whilst 



152 COOKERY A LA MODE 

they are hot, turn them over a ruler to shape them 
and slip them on to a sieve to dry. 



Corbeilles a la Nimrod 

Make some Cassel puddings ; cut out the centres 
within a quarter of an inch of the edge, brush the 
outsides over with apricot jam that has been passed 
through a sieve, and then rolled in crushed centri- 
fugal sugar. 

Fill the insides with brandy cherries^ and with a 
rose pipe ornament the edges with a little white glace 
icing, placing pieces of angelica cut into the shapes 
of leaves. Whip up some cream, flavour with cherry 
brandy, and pile on the top. 



Corbeilles de Fantaisie 

Weigh two eggs in the shell and take the same 
weight of butter sugar, and Vienna flour. Beat the 
butter to a cream, and whisk the whites and yolks 
together for ten minutes. Add the sugar, then the 
flour, also a little grated lemon-peel and a few drops 
of any nice flavouring essence. Place in small 
dariole-moulds and bake for twenty minutes. Turn 
them out, and when cold scoop out the middles, roll 
the outsides in apricot syrup, and then in centrifugal 
sugar or cocoa-nut. Whip some cream thickly, 
flavour with pineapple rum, and mix in pieces of 
pineapple and fill the cases with it. Cut some strips 
of angelica to form handles, and round the edge put 



PLATE XIX 




1. Corbeilles de Fantaisie. 2. Coquembouche d' Orange. 

3. Harlequin Jelly. 



SWEETS 153 

some hundreds and thousands on with a little white 
of ^SS- -^ f*^^^ grated pistachio kernels can be 
sprinkled over the cream, and it makes a pretty effect 
to colour some of the cream pink and arrange the 
baskets alternately pink and white on the dish. (See 
Plate XIX.) 



Compdte of Fruit a la Gdnevoise 

Take any kind of plain cake, cut off a slice from 
the bottom and put it on the dish it is to be served 
in. If the cake is round, cut it to a hexagonal shape ; 
if square, into an octagonal one. Then cut it into slices, 
stamping out the centres as uniformly as possible. 
This can be covered with a different coloured puree 
of jam and then covered with icing, each slice piled 
on the top of another, the last one having coloured 
icing on the top. Fill the cavity with a compote of 
fruit, and on the top place a layer of iced fruit ; round 
the first or lower circle a few iced fruits should be 
arranged round. 



Coquembouche d'Oranges 

Take eight oranges, peel them and divide pulp 
into quarters, carefully scrape off a/l the white pith ; 
place the quarters evenly on a tin and let them dry 
in the kitchen for three or four hours. Take a pound 
of sugar, place it in a sugar-boiler with two gills of 
water ; when nearly dissolved, place it on the fire, 
adding a tiny pinch of cream of tartar. Boil it to 



154 COOKERY A LA MODE 

casse, then take the pan off the fire and plunge the 
bottom into cold water to stop the boiling. Take up 
the oranges at one end and dip them into the sugar, 
then drain them and arrange the quarters singly on 
a pastry rack ; they must not touch each other. The 
sugar having cooled, take the quarters up and dip 
them with the side kept intact into the casse sugar 
again. Have ready either a round of marchepain, 
nougat, or cake, about half an inch thick, and arrange 
the quarters of orange on according to Plate XIX., 
dipping them into the casse sugar and white of ^^^ so 
that they may adhere ; one row should be done at a 
time and allowed to set, then begin another row, &c. 
Fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with 
orange. Ornament with glace cherries and preserved 
violets to taste. Spin some sugar and ornament as 
in Plate. Spun sugar can be put instead of the flag, 
spun in the shape of a ship, harp, or any ornament. 
Keep it in a dry place till required. 



Corbeilles de Nougat 

Blanch half a pound of almonds and cut each 
lengthways into narrow pieces ; lay them on a dish 
in front of the fire to dry. Melt in a pan a quarter 
of a pound of castor sugar, and when it becomes a 
pale brown mix in the almonds, when it should 
become a soft paste. 

Make some small dariole-moulds very hot, "oil 
them with almond-oil and put some of the mixture 
whilst soft in them, and with the oiled handle of a 



SWEETS 155 

teaspoon spread it round the mould as thinly as 
possible. When cold, turn out and fill with whipped 
cream flavoured with maraschino. On the top of 
each place a sugared violet with a pistachio-nut cut 
in halves, and place on each side of the violet to 
represent leaves. Make handles to the baskets by 
cutting strips of angelica and bending it across each 
basket. 



Corbeilles a la Peg Woffington 

Take six oranges, remove all peel and pith, 
divide the oranges into sections. Place these on a 
sieve and let them dry in the warm. 

Take a pound of loaf sugar and put it into half a 
pint of water, let it dissolve, then place the saucepan 
on the fire and boil till the sugar cracks. Take then 
the pan from the fire and dip each section of the 
orange in it and place them separately on the pastry- 
rack. 

Arrange these when dry in a round in rows, 
leaving a well in the centre with some melted sugar ; 
decorate with sugar violets, glace cherries, and pis- 
tachio-kernels. Fill the centre with whipped cream 
flavoured with pineapple and make a handle across 
with red brochettes fastened together with sugar. 



Cornucopias a la Sevign^ 

Have ready some cornucopia-moulds ; roll down 
some flaky pastry very thin, and cut it into pieces 



156 COOKERY A LA MODE 

two and a half inches wide and ten inches long. Cut 
these again in two from corner to corner ; lay the 
wide part of the paste slips to the wide part of the 
moulds and bind them round to the point, lapping 
the paste slightly over at each fold ; wash over with 
water, dust sugar over from a dredger, and bake. 
When done, take out the moulds and set them on a 
pastry rack, and when cold lay in some whipped cream 
flavoured with any liqueur which may be preferred. 
(See Plate XXII.) 



Creme a la Coralie 

Make some wafers with four ounces of Vienna 
flour, eight ounces of castor sugar, and four eggs ; 
then roll out at once. Rub a baking-tin with wax 
and place it in a quick oven. Cut out twelve circles 
and curl up when hot. Oil a charlotte mould and 
place the wafers round it, each touching the other 
brushing over the inside a little sugar and water. 
Stand on ice. When ready, turn out and fill with 
stiffly whipped cream flavoured with vanilla or 
liqueur. The tops of the wafers can be ornamented 
with powdered pistachio-nuts, and the whole may 
have, if liked, spun-sugar ornamentations. 



Corbeilles k la Trilby 

Put half a pound of lump sugar and a gill ot 
water into a sugar-boiler and boil till the sugar 
becomes brittle. Peel five oranges, remove all the 



PLATE XX 




1. Sweet Poached Eggs. 2. Neapolitan Cream. 3. Jugged Hare a k 

Surprise. 4. Rhubarb Jelly and Banana Creann. 5. Ocean Flowers. 

6. Surprise Mushrooms. 7. Eggs en Surprise. 8. Rognons a la CuMo. 

9. Macedon Jelly. 



SWEETS 157 

white skin, divide them into their natural sections, 
remove the pips. Then dip each section into the 
boiling sugar, holding them on the point of a fine 
skewer. Oil a mould with sweet almond-oil and 
arrange the pieces of orange at the bottom and sides 
quite closely. Keep in a dry coolish place, and when 
dry and firm turn out the shape very carefully and fill 
up the centre with whipped cream. Sprinkle ground 
pistachio-nuts over all. 

Corbeilles Fantastiques 

Weigh two eggs in the shell, and take the same 
weight of butter, sugar, and Vienna flour ; beat the 
butter to a cream, and beat the whites and yolks 
together for ten minutes, and mix them lightly with the 
butter ; add the sugar, then the flour, also some grated 
lemon-peel and a few drops of some flavouring 
essence. Bake for twenty minutes in small dariole- 
moulds, turn them out, and let them get cold. Care- 
fully scoop out the middles, cover the outsides with 
marmalade, and roll them in grated pistachio-kernels ; 
put a dessert-spoonful of brandy cherries into each 
case, make a whip of cream, flavoured with a few drops 
of ratafia, and lay on the top of each case with cherries 
well piled up. Cut angelica in strips to form handles 
to the baskets. 



Eggs en Surprise 

Take a nest-mould and fill it with wine jelly 
coloured green and which has been chopped fine, put 



158 COOKERY A LA MODE 

it on ice for some hours, when it will all have clung 
together and turn out all right. 

Have some egg-moulds, fill two of them with 
vanilla cream and one with coffee cream and let them 
remain on ice till frozen, then turn them out and 
place in the centre of the jelly-nest. (See Plate XX.) 



Exeter Pancakes 

Whisk separately the yolks and whites of three 
eggs, stir into them gradually one dessert-spoonful of 
Vienna flour and the same of castor sugar. When 
smooth, mix in half a pint of whipped cream flavoured 
with ratafia, pour into well-buttered saucers, and 
bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 

Arrange the pancakes one on the top of another 
with a layer of preserved cherries in syrup between 
each, and sprinkle sugar over all. 



Frontignac Jelly 

(Gelee de Frontignac) 

Melt some of Chivers' tablet calf s-foot jelly, and 
add three gills of still moselle. Take a bunch of white 
muscatel grapes, and one of black Hamburg grapes. 
Put a mould on the ice and fill it with the jelly, 
adding alternately the grapes. Cover with a tin 
plate, on which put some ice, and leave it for two 
hours, then turn out and serve. (See Plate XX H.) 



SWEETS 159 

Gelee en Mascarade 

(Jelly in Fancy Dress) 

Make some calf's-foot jelly, or melt one of 
Lazenby's calf's-foot jellies. Colour it with sap green 
and flavour it with curacoa. When the jelly is cold) 
whisk it to a froth, then fill a round border-mould 
with it and place it on ice. Take some egg-moulds, 
or, if not at hand, blow the contents from a new- 
laid egg. Whip some cream and add to it half its 
quantity in pale-coloured jelly, and sweeten to taste ; 
divide it in half, and flavour one half with essence 
of coffee till it becomes the colour of a brown egg. 
Flavour the other half with maraschino. Fill half 
the eggs with the brown mixture, and the rest with the 
white ; place on ice, and when frozen enough turn out. 
Turn out the green border and arrange the white 
and brown eggs in it, resembling a nest as much 
as possible. A few threads of spun sugar spun over 
the border add to its natural appearance. 

Iced Souffle 

Take the yolks of six eggs, place them in a 
basin, and whisk them over a pan of hot water till 
they become light. Then whisk them over a basin 
of broken ice till cold. Mix in them a pint of 
whipped cream flavoured with a gill of serina liqueur 
and then the whipped whites of eggs. 

Pour the mixture into the souffle dish, surround 
it with a band of paper two inches higher than the 
dish, and place on ice for five or six hours. Just 



l6o COOKERY A LA MODE 

before sending it to table sprinkle some grated 
ratafia biscuits on the top, also a few pistachio-kernels 
grated, and remove the paper and put it in the outer 
souffle-dish. 



Harlequin Jelly 

Make some calfs-foot jelly, divide it into six 
portions, flavour and colour each differently — one 
white, cream and jelly mixed ; for pink, cream jelly 
and cochineal ; another red jelly, another green, 
another brown ; jelly, cream and essence of coffee 
mixed, leaving one portion, the natural jelly ; set all 
these on ice, and when nearly set whip each one sepa- 
rately, then leave on ice again ; then fill the mould with 
alternate layers of the jellies and put on ice again. 
(See Plate XIX.) 



Gelee a la Printemps 

Take a round mould with a pipe, and fill it with 
clear jelly flavoured with green curacoa. 

Whip some raspberry cream and pile it high in 
the centre of the jelly, and sprinkle the top with 
pistachio-kernels and powdered violets. 



Jugged Hare a la Surprise 

Butter some hare-moulds and fill them with 
Genoese cake batter, pressing it well into the moulds 
with the handle of a small spoon. Bake, then turn 



SWEETS I 6 1 

them out and leave till next day. Then trim level 
at the back. Make some little jugs in almond paste, 
dry them in a cool oven, decorate with pink piping. 
Put a teaspoonful of strawberry jam into the bottom 
of each jug, put one of the little hares into each jug, 
with the head and shoulders showing, stick a morsel 
of dried cherry with icing into the eyes, and dish up. 
(See Plate XX.) 

Macedoine of Fruits 

(Macedoine aux Fruits) 

Take some strawberries, half a pound of rasp- 
berries, the same of red and white currants, the same 
of cherries, the same of grapes, some apricots cut in 
quarters, pieces of pineapple and melon, bananas, 
apples, plums, peaches, figs, &c. 

Free all from their stalks, then put them into a 
rich syrup (see under ' Syrup,' p. 224) ; flavour with 
either maraschino or noyau and a little brandy ; colour 
the syrup with a little carmine, and serve in a glass 
dish arranged prettily to blend the colours. Add to 
the fruit one of the bottles of fruit in syrup sold by all 
grocers ; the bananas should be cut in rounds about 
half an inch in depth. Whipped cream may be mixed 
with it if desired. 

Macedon Jelly 

Wet a mould with cold water, then pour into it a 
little dissolved calf's-foot jelly and allow it to cool. 
Place in the hollows of the mould grapes, slices of 

M 



1 62 COOKERY A LA MODE 

bananas, then pour in another layer of jelly and let 
it set. Add more fruit, also crystallised violets and 
rose-leaves. Continue till the mould is full ; put on 
ice, and, when cold, turn out and serve whipped cream 
round it. (See Plate XX.) 

Mulberry Jelly 

Mash the mulberries and pass them through a sieve, 
then put the juice into a preserving-pan and reduce it. 
Add twelve ounces of loaf sugar to each pound of 
juice ; boil it till it leaves the sides of the pan, and 
put it into small moulds. When set turn out. This 
makes a very nice dessert sweet. 



Neapolitan Cream 

Put half an ounce of leaf gelatine into a small 
saucepan with a gill of cold water to soak, next place 
it on the fire and stir till the gelatine is melted. 
Whip to a stiff froth a pint of double cream and stir 
into the gelatine through a strainer ; divide the cream 
into five equal parts, and put each part into a sepa- 
rate basin. Mix two table-spoonfuls of made coffee 
into one, a table-spoonful of maraschino or white 
curacoa liqueur into a second, three table-spoonfuls 
of pounded pistachios tinted with sap-green colouring 
into the third, two table-spoonfuls of strawberry jam 
passed through a sieve coloured with a little cochineal 
into the fourth, and into the fifth two table-spoonfuls 
of apricot jam passed through a sieve and coloured 
with apricot yellow and the smallest quantity of 



SWEETS 1 6^ 

saffron yellow. Have a Neapolitan mould ready, 
and, if one is not handy, use a plain round mould and 
put a layer of lemon jelly coloured red at the bottom. 
When this is set, add one at a time the different 
creams in layers, waiting till each has set before 
putting in another. Put on ice for three hours, turn 
out, and ornament with sugar violets and glace 
cherries. (See Plate XX.) 

Orange Chartreuse 

Make a quart of orange jelly. Take some tan- 
gerine oranges, peel them and divide them into sec- 
tions, clearing away all white skin and pips. Melt 
the jelly enough to pour out. Have two plain round 
moulds, one an inch larger in diameter than the other. 
Pour a very little of the jelly at the bottom of the 
larger mould, let it set, then place on it some of the 
quarters of oranges in rounds ; cover with more jelly, 
but only enough to get a plain service. Lay on ice 
to set ; when quite firm, place the smaller mould 
inside, oiling the bottom which touches the jelly with 
sweet oil. The mould must be very accurately put 
in. In the space between the mould place quarters 
of orange, and then jelly, and so on, till the mould is 
full, but at each layer the mould must be put on ice. 
Whip up a pint of cream, flavour with some pulped 
and sweetened orange which has been tammied, dis- 
solve half an ounce of isinglass in a very little milk 
and add to it ; remove the inner mould by pouring 
warm water into it. Fill up the inner space with 
the cream set on ice, and turn out. 

M 2 



164 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Ocean Flowers 

Make some jelly with white leaf gelatine sweetened 
to taste, flavoured with maraschino. 

Take some little fish moulds and fill them with 
vanilla cream coloured with Marshall's cherry red, 
into which some silver leaf has been sprinkled, and 
put them on ice for three hours. Take a plain 
round mould, chemise it with the white jelly ; when 
it is set, put in a little more of the white jelly and put 
on ice. Turn out the little fish-moulds and place 
them on the jelly as if swimming, placing just a little 
jelly in to keep them in place. Put again on ice and 
add more jelly to the depth of an inch and a half, put 
on ice again, place on more fish and ice, and then 
more jelly and so on till the mould is full ; when cold, 
turn out and dish and place round the base some 
whipped cream coloured green. Arrange it roughly 
to look like waves, and here and there place a little 
stiffly beaten white of Qgg to look like foam, and 
garnish with little shells of pink cream around. (See 
Plate XX.) 

Oyster Surprise ^ la Baden Powell 

Take some oyster-moulds and line them with 
some very pale calf's-foot jelly. Make some vanilla 
cream and place a piece the size and shape of an 
oyster in each mould, edged round with a little pa/e 
chocolate cream. Place on ice to set, then turn out 
and serve up on a mound of strawberry cream. 
Garnish with quarters of lemon made with gelatine 



SWEETS 165 

and sugar, which are to be bought at most confec- 
tioners'. 



Orange Sandwiches 

Grate the yellow skin of an orange, then squeeze 
out the juice. Put half a pound of flour, three ounces 
of sugar, and two ounces of butter into a basin and 
sift into it half a tea-spoonful of soda ; rub the butter 
and flour well together till it is quite a paste. Put 
the yolks of three eggs into a basin, beat well, add 
the grated orange-juice and rind. Mix thoroughly, 
then add one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar and mix 
again ; pour all into the basin with the flour, &c., and 
mix well. Beat the whites of the three eggs till stiff 
and stir them in ; pour all into two well-buttered 
sandwich cake-tins and bake till ready. When cool, 
split, and spread with a mixture made thus : — One 
orange, three ounces of icing sugar, one white of egg. 
Grate the orange-rind, press out the juice and mix 
the sugar into it, beat the white stiffly and stir in. 
Spread it over the cakes ; put the two sides together 
and cut neatly. 

Pear Mould 

Take a tin of Bartlett pears or those sold in 
bottles, and arrange them in a mould in tiers, the 
pear to be turned in an opposite direction in each tier. 
Put the syrup into a saucepan with half an ounce of 
melted gelatine, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, three 
ounces of sugar, and boil up till it becomes a rich 



1 66 COOKERY A LA MODE 

thick syrup ; add a wineglass of maraschino with a 
few drops of cochineal, and strain over the pears ; put 
on ice for three or four hours and turn out. 



Pears a la Sevigne 

Put into a stewpan four, yolks of eggs with six 
ounces of castor sugar, work well with a wooden 
spoon, and dilute the mixture with a pint of milk 
flavoured with vanilla ; stir over the fire till it 
thickens, without letting it boil ; add three boiled and 
mashed pears and rub through a hair sieve ; add half 
a glass of liqueur and set to freeze. When properly 
frozen, take a spoon and mould some of the ice into 
the shape of a pear, cut it open with a knife, introduce 
into the centre a little apricot jam, a few dry currants 
to represent the pips, and place a piece of angelica 
to imitate the stalk. Make a pistachio ice-cream, rub 
it through a sieve to imitate moss, and dish the pears 
on it. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream 

Take one of the cheap West India pineapples, 
peel it and grate the fruit ; cook it in a quarter of a 
pound of sugar ; add one ounce of leaf gelatine melted 
in milk and the juice of an orange. Leave to get 
cold, then put in half a pint of cream, and place in a 
deep border-mould on ice. When ready, turn out and 
decorate with the natural leaves of the pineapple in 
the centre, and serve round the mould with chopped 
pineapple and syrup. 



SWEETS 167 

Pineapple Layer Cake 

Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, add half 
a pound of castor sugar, mix and beat well together ; 
add the yolks of five eggs, six ounces of flour, two 
ounces of cornflour, and a tea-spoonful of baking 
powder. Beat well, then mix in a tea-spoonful of 
essence of vanilla and two table-spoonfuls of sherry. 
Grease three round tins and pour in the cake mixture 
and bake in a fairly quick oven for fifteen minutes. 
When done, turn out the cakes to cool for a few 
minutes. Take some chunks of pineapple and slice 
them very thinly. Beat the whites of two eggs lightly 
and add four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and 
continue beating till stiff enough to stand alone. Put 
a layer of this over the top of one cake, then a layer of 
the sliced pineapple ; stand another cake on the top, 
put the remainder of the white beaten eggs over the top 
of this cake, then another layer of apricots. Place the 
remaining cake on the top of this, press down lightly, 
and dust the top over with castor sugar. 



Pineapple Souffle 

Take a quarter-pound of potato flour, a quarter- 
pound of butter, three ounces of powdered sugar, a 
quarter-pound of pineapple chunks ; warm this 
mixture on the stove, stirring till quite smooth, then 
add half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. 

Take the yolks of six eggs and mix them in one 
by one ; beat the whites to a stiff froth and add, then 



1 68 COOKERY A LA MODE 

fill the souffle-case with this mixture. Bake for about 
twenty minutes and serve before it falls. 

Pistachio Cream 

Blanch some pistachio-kernels, say a pound, put 
them into a mortar with a wineglassful of cognac and 
beat them to a paste. Then add a quart of whipped 
cream into which a few sheets of dissolved gelatine 
have been put, and a table-spoonful of castor sugar ; 
colour with a little of Marshall's sap-green colouring 
till it is a pale pretty green. 

Ornament the top of the mould with clear jelly, 
then put in the pistachio mixture, put on ice, and, 
when cold, turn out and place a few crystallised violets 
daintily on the top. 

Pyramid of Peaches 

Cut some sponge-cakes in rounds, soak them in 
brandy or rum, place on each the half of a peach, in 
the centre of which place the kernel from the peach- 
stone. Make some thick syrup, flavour with brandy 
and curagoa and pour over ; spin some sugar and 
ornament it with. 

Iced Raspberry Fool 

Pick and stalk one pound of raspberries ; stew 
them in half a pint of syrup until tender, then rub 
through a hair sieve ; add some cochineal and a pint 
of good cream, and freeze in an ice machine. 



SWEETS 169 

Make the syrup of two pounds of white sugar 
with half a pint of water whisked up with a tea- 
spoonful of the white of an egg ; let the sugar 
dissolve, stirring it up ; then put the pan on the fire 
and stir it with a sugar-spoon till it boils ; put it on 
the side of the fire, and as it boils add at different 
times another quarter of a pint of water ; this 
causes the egg to come to the top, and after two 
minutes' boiling the syrup will come quite clear ; then 
strain it through a napkin and it will be ready for 
use. 

Raspberry Jelly ^ la Dieppe 

Make some raspberry jelly with a pound of rasp- 
berries and a pint and a half of raspberry syrup, 
strain through a fine tammy, add an ounce and a 
half of clarified gelatine made with a pint and a 
half of hot water, have ready a mould, and pour a 
little of the jelly in it and place on ice. When it is 
set, make a layer of white currants and cover with 
jelly and let it set ; then add another layer of red 
currants and jelly until the mould is full, then imbed in 
ice till cold enough to turn out. (See Plate XXII.) 



Rhubarb Jelly and Banana Cream 

Cook a pound of rhubarb with half a pound of 
sugar, a table-spoonful of lemon juice, and three- 
quarters of an ounce of gelatine, mix in half a pint of 
cream, colour with a little cochineal. Take half a dozen 
or eight bananas, remove the skins, and pass the fruit 



170 COOKERY A LA MODE 

through a tammy ; add the juice of an orange, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar and three-quarters of an 
ounce of gelatine, and half a pint of cream. Have 
ready a mould, and place these pulps in it in layers. 

A little apricot yellow added to the banana 
mixture is an improvement. (See Plate XX.) 



Rognons a la Curio 

Cut some Madeira cake into neat squares, soak 
them in cherry brandy, and arrange them in a silver 
entree dish. Make a mixture of half cream and half 
lemon jelly, which has been streaked with a feather 
dipped into cochineal, then cut into slices the size and 
shape of slices of bacon and lay on the brandied cake. 

Make some coffee cream well stiffened with calfs- 
foot jelly and put it on ice ; when cold, cut it into the 
shape of sheep's kidneys and lay it on the imitation 
bacon. A few finely minced pistachio-kernels should 
be scattered in the centre of each kidney to imitate 
parsley. (See Plate XX.) 

Royal Pudding 

Make a custard with a pint of milk, sugar to taste, 
half an ounce of gelatine, and three yolks of eggs. 
Set a mould with glace cherries and strips of angelica, 
then put in a little of the custard mixture till it cools. 
When cold, have ready three sponge-cakes soaked in 
sherry and brandy, place these in the centre of the 
mould, and when the mixture is nearly cold add 
citron cut small, sultanas and glace cherries, a table- 



SWEETS I 7 I 

spoonful of brandy and a tea-spoonful of vanilla 
essence to the custard ; mix lightly together ; put it 
round inside the mould so as not to displace the cake ; 
put on ice and turn out. The sultanas should be 
steamed and not used till cold. 

Pudding a la San Toy 

Make a good custard flavoured with vanilla and 
sweeten to taste, strain and add half a pint of cream, 
a gill of maraschino, the juice of half a lemon, and a 
little gelatine dissolved in milk. Put the whole into 
a pretty pudding-mould and place on ice, then turn 
out and ornament it with little rosettes of whipped 
red jelly and sugar violets. 

Strawberry Pudding 

Make two pints of strawberry puree and mix with 
it three-quarters of a pound of castor sugar. Melt 
one and a half ounce of gelatine in a gill of milk. 
When nearly cool, strain it through a tammy into the 
puree, stirring it well. Decorate a plain round mould 
with almonds and pistachio-kernels in pretty designs, 
put it on the ice, and when the decorations are set, 
fill in the puree, and let it remain in ice till required, 
when it can be turned out and clotted cream served 
with it. 

Sweet Poached Eggs 

Take a sponge-cake and cut it into slices about 
half an inch thick, stamp them out into neat rounds 



172 COOKERY A LA MODE 

with a cutter, and let them soak in brandy for a Httle 
while. Mix sonne cream and calf's-foot jelly together 
(of course the jelly must be melted), the cream 
flavoured with a little apricot syrup ; put the cream 
into a large flat dish to the thickness of about an 
inch, place the cream on ice till firm ; when it can 
be cut into rounds with a cutter, put these rounds 
of cream on the round of cake, and take some 
apricots from a tin of preserved apricots. Let 
them drain from the syrup and place one on each 
round of cream. (See Plate XX.) 



Strawberries en Paradis 

Take some fine large strawberries and place them 
in a quart mould ; sugar them well after stalking them. 
Cover them thickly with either Devonshire cream 
or thickly whipped cream. Put buttered paper over 
the top tightly and immerse them in ice for ten hours, 
then turn out. This is a most delicious dish. 



Trifle a la Old Century 

This must be prepared nine or ten hours before it 
is required. Take a pound sponge-cake rather stale 
a quarter of a pound of each of greengage, apricot 
and strawberry jam, a quarter of a pound of orange 
marmalade, half a pint of marsala or raisin wine, a 
wineglassful of brandy, the same of curagoa and 
ginger wine, five ounces of loaf sugar, six fresh eggs, 
one pint of milk, half a pint of thick cream (Devon- 



SWEETS 173 

shire cream preferred), two ounces of blanched sweet 
almonds, one ounce of ratafias, and a teaspoonful of 
vanilla essence. Cut the cake into five slices. Put 
the top slice aside and spread the other four with 
the different jams. Put two ounces of sugar into the 
wine, mix the brandy and liqueurs in also ; lay the 
ratafias in a glass dish, and on them the bottom slice 
of the cake. Pour a little of the wine over them, put 
on another slice of cake on the top of the other, and 
more wine and so on till the cake is built up ; keep 
pouring the wine over till it is all used up. Make a 
rich custard flavoured with brandy, let it get quite 
cold ; cut the almonds in pointed slices, stick the 
top of the cake with them, and when ready to serve 
pour over the custard. 



Walnuts, to Candy 

Shell the walnuts carefully without breaking them, 
remove the skins by putting them into boiling water, 
then throw them into a glassful of sherry, afterwards 
put them into clarified sugar just heated and flavoured 
with a little rose-water. Put them into a stewpan 
over the fire for five minutes, letting them simmer 
slowly. Next draw the saucepan aside, and when 
the mixture is nearly cool take the walnuts from the 
syrup and set them on a dish to cool. Sprinkle castor 
sugar over them. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D'CEUVRES 



' Elements ! each other greeting, 
Gifts and powers attend ye meeting' 

The Pirate 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D'CEUVRES 

In speaking of savouries and their cousins hors- 
d'cEUvres, I have little to say beyond giving a few 
recipes, as of course it is care only in the cooking 
and garnishing that makes these little dainties so 
appetising. Aspic jelly is one of the principal factors 
in cold savouries, also the fineness of the chopping of 
parsley, egg and lobster coral, which are mostly used. 
Parsley should be dried, white and yolks of eggs 
rubbed separately through a fine sieve, and lobster 
coral pounded in a mortar ; lobster spawn should be 
placed in a muslin bag and dipped in a saucepan of 
boiling water till the proper colour is obtained, and 
then dried and pounded, unless it is desired to 
sprinkle the dainties with it whole. 

I have not given many savoury recipes, as the little 
volume ' Savouries a la Mode ' devoted to savouries 
leaves but little more to say. 



Anchovy Trifles 

Make some anchovy biscuit-paste, cut it into 
rounds the size of half a crown ; on that place a curled 
and boned anchovy. Have ready some whipped 
cream flavoured with cayenne and a liU/e essence of 

N 



178 COOKERY A LA MODE 

anchovy, and put on the top of the anchovy in a 
rocky fashion. This makes a good hors-d'oeuvre as 
well as a savoury. 

Baskets ^ la Savarin 

Make some short paste into which a little anchovy 
cream has been introduced ; line some basket-moulds 
with it and bake, and fill them when baked with 
anchovy cream flavoured with cayenne, and curl a 
boned anchovy on the top. Make paste handles to 
the basket. This is a very pretty and tasty dish. 
Garnish with cress. 

Brioches a la Devon 

Take three table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce, 
some finely chopped celery, a small shalot, well- 
pounded pieces of lobster, anchovies, sardines, prawns 
or shrimps, and oysters, a little tarragon and chervil 
finely minced. Mix these ingredients with the 
mayonnaise sauce and fill the brioche-cases (which 
are best bought) ; run butter through the forcer round 
the edges of the cases. 

Stand them on Montpellier butter (see this in 
' Savouries a la Mode'), strew lobster coral and hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs passed through a sieve on the 
top of each. Serve with chopped aspic round. 

Caviare Sandwiches 

Take two table-spoonfuls of caviare, place it in a 
basin, mix it with some finely chopped shalot the 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D CEUVRES I 79 

juice of half a lemon and a pinch of cayenne pepper ; 
stir these thoroughly together. Butter some thin 
slices of brown bread, spread with the above mixture, 
pressing them together sandwich-fashion ; cut them 
into three-cornered pieces and serve as a hors- 
d'oeuvre. 



Croutes ^ la Dunkeld 

Cut some rounds of bread the size of a five- 
shilling-piece, fry them a pale colour. Take some 
remains of grouse, curry them and chop fine ; place 
some in a little mound on each crouton and scatter 
hard-boiled white of egg over, which has been passed 
through a fine strainer; sprinkle a very little dry 
parsley over each ; send to table very hot. 



Cucumber and Prawn Salad 

Take some prawns and skin them, or use the pre- 
pared Barathea prawns, soak them in mayonnaise, 
pile up in a mound, and serve cucumber cut into pea- 
shapes round in clumps, and which have been coated 
with aspic jelly. 

Darioles a la Como 

Take some little fluted dariole-moulds and mask 
them with very pale aspic. Cut some truffles into fanci- 
ful small shapes and decorate the moulds with them, 
adding a little more aspic to do so. Put on ice till 



l80 COOKERY A LA MODE 

set, then fill the moulds with an ounce of Parmesan 
cheese, one ounce of Gruyere finely grated, a very 
little cayenne, salt to taste. Stir into this half a pint 
of whipped cream, into which a little of the aspic 
has been added and flavoured with a few drops of 
essence of anchovy. Put on ice. When set, turn 
out and serve with pink aspic jelly arranged in little 
heaps round, sprinkled with a little parsley chopped 
as fine as dust. 



Devilled Oysters 

When the oysters are opened, retain them and 
their liquor in the deep shell. Insert cayenne pepper 
and salt to taste, and put the shells on the gridiron 
with a piece of butter on the top of each oyster. 
With a clear bright fire it will take three to four 
minutes to cook them. 

Brown bread and butter should be served with 
them. 



Medallions of Foie-gras k la Rosiere 

Make a pretty rice socle in a border-mould 
coloured a deepish yellow. Make one in a similar 
but smaller mould. When ready turn out and place 
one on the top of the other and make some me- 
dallions of foie-gras well truffled, masked in white 
aspic cream decorated with a truffle cut like a rose in 
the centre. Arrange them in two tiers and surmount 
the top with whipped aspic jelly sprinkled over with 
finely -grated pistachio and truffle. (See Plate V.) 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D'cEUVRES i8i 

Eggs a la Besciamella 

Take three ounces of butter, three small onions, 
and a large bunch of parsley. Cut the onions in 
very fine slices and mince the parsley finely. Put 
these into a stewpan with a small quantity of very 
fine flour, add two gills of milk and two of cream. 
Boil and stir gently till this sauce is sufficiently 
thickened. Boil ten eggs hard, throw them into cold 
water, remove the shells, and then take away the 
white of the eggs, leaving the yolks whole. 

Cut the whites into strips and add to the sauce. 
Garnish a dish with very slightly fried sippets, put 
the sauce in the centre, and on it arrange eight of the 
hard yolks, having first dipped them in clarified 
butter, and then into fine bread-crumbs and grated 
Parmesan. 

Put the remaining yolks through a sieve and 
scatter them equally over the other eggs. Let the 
dish bake in a slow oven for half an hour, and serve. 

Great attention is required in the baking. 



Fish Balls a la Bizarre 

Pound in a mortar some dried cooked haddock 
with butter, a quarter of a pound of each ; add a little 
paprika ; form into balls the size of golf-balls, roll 
them in beaten 0:%^ and fry them. Have ready 
separately some very finely powdered parsley, some 
powdered lobster coral, some yolk of ^g^, hard-boiled 
and sieved, and the white chopped hard. Roll some 



1 82 COOKERY A LA MODE 

in the coral, some in parsley, some in the yolk, and 
some in the white. Arrange them in a pyramid, 
assorting the colours prettily. (See Plate XXI.) 



Fromage a la Su^de 

Take six ounces of grated Gruyere cheese and a 
table-spoonful of corn-flour and put them into a 
basin. Mix well, add a pinch of salt and cayenne ; 
stir in the yolks of two eggs, a table-spoonful of 
cream, and a table-spoonful of clarified butter. Work 
this mixture till smooth, then pour it into a stewpan 
and stir over the fire till it thickens, and then let cool. 
Roll out some rough puff paste, cut it into neat strips 
about three inches long and one broad. Spread the 
cheese mixture evenly on the paste. Place another 
strip on the top. Brush over with beaten egg, and 
bake for a quarter of an hour. 



Kippers ^ la Sutton 

Take some kippered herring which has been fried 
and freed from bones, mince it small, and place it 
in a mortar with a piece of butter, a little minced 
parsley, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a tea-spoonful 
of anchovy sauce, and a table-spoonful of cream ; form 
it into pyramidal shapes, place it on fried croutons, 
and decorate with a tiny leaf of parsley on the top. 

If cream is not handy, whip up the white of egg 
with a little salt and place decoratively on the top of 
the pyramids. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-d'cEUVRES 1 83 



Lamb Sandwiches 

Line some sandwich-moulds with aspic jelly 
flavoured with mint ; when set, lay on the jelly some 
very thin slices of cold lamb, on which lay some shreds 
of cucumber, cover with more of the jelly, and put on 
ice ; then turn them out on a bed of lettuce shred 
very fine and decorate with cucumber cut to pea 
shapes, and moistened with French salad-dressing. 



Lobster Salad 

(Superior) 

Make a good stiff mayonnaise sauce, lay the 
white leaves of a lettuce at the bottom of the dish, 
cover with mayonnaise, then lay on some pieces of 
lobster neatly cut, then some more lettuce finely 
shred and more sauce, then another layer of lobster, 
and cover thickly with mayonnaise ; decorate round 
with a row of cucumber cut thin, and on each piece 
of cucumber place a thin slice of a small radish. Place 
another row beyond the cucumber of little rounds of 
beetroot alternately with quarters of hard-boiled eggs 
(little designs such as leaves of white aspic can be 
arranged on the mayonnaise), then a sprinkling of 
lobster coral ; insert in the middle to stand upright a 
spray of the white of endive, and on either side 
arrange some of the lobster antennae. (See Plate IV.) 



184 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Macaroni alia Napoli 

Take some clear soup and mix with it some 
tomato paste, boil it till it becomes the thickness of 
cream and pour it over a pound of macaroni which 
has been boiled in milk and strained ; sprinkle a little 
Parmesan cheese over it. Be sure to get the real 
Naples tomato-paste for this dish. 



Mushroom Souffle 

Steam a dozen mushrooms, tammy them, and stir 
in two ounces of bread-crumbs and the same of butter, 
a squeeze of lemon and a spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup. Stir till it boils, then take off the fire and 
stir in the yolks of three lightly whisked eggs ; add 
the whites, which must be beaten to a very stiff 
froth, and mix in gradually. Pour the mixture into 
a buttered souffle-dish, bake from twenty to thirty 
minutes and serve quickly. 



Oysters a la Flamande 

Roll the oysters singly in yolk of ^gg, then dip 
them in grated bread-crumbs and white pepper one 
by one, and fry them in butter. Serve with white 
sauce in which the liquor from the oysters has been 
strained, and the juice of a lemon. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-d'cEUVRES 1 85 

Oysters a la Montreal 

Make a batter as for fritters, in which mix a little 
of the oyster liquor and a little cayenne ; sprinkle the 
oysters with lemon-juice, dip them one by one in the 
batter and put in a frying-basket and fry quickly. 
Serve in a heap as hot as possible. 



Oyster Pancakes 

Take a dozen oysters, or as many as may be 
required, beard them and sprinkle them with a little 
cayenne and a few drops of lemon-juice, then dip 
them into a good batter and fry quickly in the usual 
way ; this will make six small pancakes. Lobster 
pancakes may be made in the same way, dividing a 
lobster into neat pieces. Another way would be to 
make the pancakes in the ordinary way and place 
the oysters inside and roll them over. 



Oyster Souffle Iced 

Take twenty-four deep-sea oysters, mince them, 
and rub them through a wire sieve. Blanch and 
beard a dozen more and cut each into four pieces. 

Put two ounces of flour and one ounce of butter 
into a stewpan and mix well together over the fire, 
then add a gill of the oyster liquor and stir till it 
thickens ; then add half a pint of whipped aspic 
jelly. 

Place the oysters into a mortar and pound them 



1 86 COOKERY A LA MODE 

well together, adding two yolks of eggs, a little salt, 
cayenne, six drops of essence of anchovy, and a gill 
of cream ; beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff 
froth and stir them into the mixture very lightly, then 
put in the oyster pieces. Line a mould with aspic 
jelly, and put this mixture inside and freeze. Garnish 
with chopped aspic. 



Parmesan Tartlets 

Line some tartlet-tins with puff paste. Take two 
ounces of cream curd, one ounce of butter, and mix 
very smoothly ; add two ounces of flour and one 
and a half ounce of grated Parmesan cheese with 
not quite a gill of milk. Cook over the fire till the 
mixture does not cling to the pan. Remove from the 
fire and beat well in three small eggs, one at a time, 
and fill the tartlet-tins with this mixture. 



Poached Eggs in Puff Paste 

Poach four to six eggs, trim and let them get cold. 
Make a mixture with a teaspoonful of chopped capers, 
gherkins, olives and parsley, a little essence of anchovy 
worked smoothly into some good thick cream, as 
much cayenne as will lie on the top of a sixpence, 
and a squeeze of lemon-juice ; the latter added very 
slowly. Work all the ingredients quickly ; enclose 
each egg with some of the mixture into a small cover 
of puff paste. Bake in a quick oven. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-d'cEUVRES 1 87 

Pork au Nid 

Take a nicely shaped savoy, cut out the stalk and 
the centre, leaving it looking like a nest, which fill 
with pork cut into dice shapes and soaked in Robert 
sauce or tomato sauce ; put over the fire and steam till 
the cabbage is cooked. Have some onion and stuffing- 
balls ready, which arrange in heaps round the cabbage, 
alternating with stiff apple sauce. (See Plate XXI.) 

Prawns au Nature! a la Mode 

Prawns are generally dressed on a lemon, but a 
novelty is to send them up in little silver shrimp-nets. 
When they can be handed round, hanging to these 
nets are little prawn-servers in the shape of boathooks. 
The nets can be used also to serve watercress in 
when handed with cheese. (See Plate XII.) 

Royal Omelets 

Take six eggs, two soft roes of fresh herrings, three 
chopped truffles, two cockscombs, and one kidney, and 
saute them in butter. Stew the truffles in half a tumbler 
of champagne and dust the other ingredients with flour 
and stew them. After which mix all together. Make 
an omelet in the usual way with the eggs. Place half 
the mixture in the omelet, fold it up, and serve the 
remainder of the ingredients round it. 



1 88 COOKERY A LA MODE 



Russian Tartlets 



Make very light pastry and line some tins with it. 
Then take some oysters scalded in their own liquor, 
one grated table-spoonful of horse-radish, one gill 
of stock, some lemon-juice, one table-spoonful of 
vinegar, one gill of white sauce, and one tea-spoonful 
of capers, half a gill of the oyster liquor, and a very 
little salt. Let all these boil a few minutes. Then add 
off the fire the yolk of an egg whisked up ; now 
add the oysters, then put pieces of lobster, sardines 
and anchovies at the bottom of the tartlet-cases, and 
fill up with oysters and sauce. Sprinkle over each 
lobster coral and parsley rubbed through a sieve and a 
few capers. Make hot in the oven for ten minutes 
and serve af once. 



Sardines a la Madras 

Stamp out some rounds of bread the size of a 
florin and half an inch thick, fry them a pale brown 
and lightly, so that they may be soft. Then spread 
them with a mixture made with a table-spoonful of 
sardines, butter, cream, and a sprinkle of curry powder 
mixed to a paste. Add half a tea-spoonful of French 
mustard, a dust of paprika, and a salt-spoonful of 
grated lemon-peel. Beat this up and spread it on 
the fried bread, arranging it into neat little pyramids 
with a knife dipped in hot water ; place in a hot oven 
for three minutes, and garnish the centre of each with 
half a farced olive and serve. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D'cEUVRES 1 89 

Sardines a la Valetta 

Stamp out in rounds, the size of a florin, slices of 
Hovis bread, and pound up together six or eight 
sardines (removing their skins first) with the yolks of 
a couple of hard-boiled eggs and an ounce of butter. 
Then spread some on the slices of bread ; chop up 
some mustard and cress and radishes, finely sprinkle 
with a little oil and vinegar, and put on another slice 
of bread. Then spread the top of each with aspic 
jelly and sprinkle over the finely-chopped white of 
Ggg, and over that some coralline pepper. 



Savoury a la Primrose 

Cut some croutons the size of a crown piece, fry 
lightly and moistly. 

Take a shalot and fry it in butter, bruising it first ; 
add two or three eggs, a little more butter, a trifle of 
parsley, and the pulp and juice of a tomato ; scramble 
them all up together, stirring with a fork in the way 
scrambled eggs are done, and place some on each of 
the croutons. 

Savoury a la Ravissante 

Cut some pieces of bread three inches long and 
one wide half an inch thick. Hollow out the centre 
and fry ; fill the centre with the soft roes of fresh 
herrings, with an oyster in each, w^hich must be sauted 
in butter for a minute or so ; one squeeze of a lemon 



190 COOKERY A LA MODE 

should be added just before serving, with a dust of 
cayenne. These must be served very hot. 

Tartlets Bizarres 

Take some tartlet-pans and line them with puff 
paste ; bake them and roll out some very thin paste, 
and place across so as to make four divisions ; fill one 
division with anchovy cream, in the second lobster 
cream, in the third oyster or Parmesan cream, and 
in the fourth tomato cream. Sprinkle, according to 
taste, lobster coral and parsley over. 

Arrange the tartlets on a bed of chervil garnished 
with small French radishes. (See Plate XXI.) 

Titbits a la Mikado 

Cut some bread into little squares about two and 
a half inches square and a quarter of an inch thick ; 
fry them in clear butter, then spread them with 
tomato butter (not too thickly), then lay a broiled 
mushroom on each ; pepper and salt to taste. Strain 
the white of a hard-boiled ^gg over, and on the top of 
that a little of the yolk to the size of a shilling, and 
on the top of all a light sprinkling of parsley. 

Tom Thumb Souffles 

Take some china ramequin-cases, butter them and 
break an Qg% into each ; season with pepper, salt, 
finely minced parsley and chives, and a little grated 
Parmesan and bake in the oven for a few minutes. 



PLATE XXI. 




1. Tartlets Bizarre. . ,' / 

2. Cigarettes a la Roy^le- 



3." Fish Balls a la Bizarre. 
4. Pork'au Nid. 



SAVOURIES AND HORS-D CEUVRES I9I 

Iced Tomato Curry 

Cut some tomatoes in slices, cook them slightly ; 
chop a small onion and a shalot small and fry them 
in butter ; add a heaped-up dessert-spoonful of curry 
powder, half a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a table- 
spoonful of desiccated cocoa-nut, a little cayenne, 
and four table-spoonfuls of good gravy. Simmer all 
together except the tomatoes for half an hour ; then 
add the tomatoes and a tiny piece of sweet chutney ; 
put on ice, and serve with iced boiled rice. 

Tomato Jelly and Bloater Roes 

Cook two pounds of tomatoes ; when cooked, add 
half a pint of aspic jelly, pour into a cold round 
border- mould and put on ice. When cold, turn out 
and fill with bloater roes that have been cooked in 
butter and rolled in whipped cream flavoured with a 
little cayenne. 

Toronto Moulds 

Boil some macaroni till tender, butter some dariole- 
moulds and line them with it. Mince the remains 
of any kind of game or poultry with a little tongue 
and a few chopped mushrooms, pistachio-nuts and 
truffle peelings ; season to taste ; add a very little 
Parmesan cheese with sufficient veloute sauce to 
make a stiff paste ; fill the moulds with the mixture 
and steam for three-quarters of an hour ; turn out and 
serve with tomato sauce. These can also be served 
cold ; if the latter, serve tomato salad with it. 



192 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Truffles ^ I'ltalienne 

Melt four ounces of butter, add two ounces of the 
best salad-oil, a little parsley, a shalot, a small onion, 
a clove of garlic, and fry all together. 

Peel the truffles very carefully, cut them into 
slices and add them to the fried ingredients ; add 
pepper and salt to taste. When well mixed, add a 
pinch of flour and a little boiling fish stock. Add a 
tumbler of boiling champagne and stew slowly till 
all is cooked. Fry some sippets and pour the con- 
tents of the stewpan over the fried bread ; place more 
sippets at the edge of the dish and garnish with 
lemon. The shalot, &c., must be finely minced and 
the garlic taken out before the truffles are added. 



CAKES, &c. 

The reward that sweetens labour 



O 



PLATE \Xn. 







1. Cake aux Pistaches. 2. Californian Jelly. 3. Cornucopias a la 

Sevigne, 4. Frontignac Jelly. 5. Apricot Cream a la Princesse. 

6. Cake a la Cerise. 7. Raspberry Jelly a la Dieppe. 8. Cake Glace. 



CAKES 

Cakes require great care in the baking, and the 
oven should be regulated to the exact heat before 
putting in any biscuits or cakes ; currants should be 
well picked and rubbed, and peel cut into small 
pieces ; and it is essential when cakes are turned out 
of their tins they should be turned upside down on 
pastry racks. 

In beating eggs, the germ should be carefully 
taken away before beating. In the present day, when 
all kinds of cakes and fancy biscuits can be bought 
so cheaply, the art of cake-making is neglected, 
and I quite think it saves a lot of trouble, especially 
with the present race of cooks, who like to do as little 
as possible. I have given recipes for a few only, and 
the illustrations will give an idea of decorating them, 
as all cakes now are so highly ornamental. To ice 
cakes with glace-icing, which, I think, is superior to 
the royal-icing, the sugar should be dissolved and 
care taken not to overheat it, and mixed with a little 
rose or orange flower water ; it can be flavoured with 
lemon, orange, maraschino, &c., and should be spread 
over the cake with a palette-knife. 

Any colouring can be added according to taste. 
For chocolate-icing, powdered chocolate should be 
mixed in. 

3 



196 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Coffee-icing, flavour with coffee extract. Royal- 
icing is made by putting two whites of eggs into a 
china basin, the juice of half a lemon, and six ounces 
of sifted icing sugar. Work well together with a 
wooden spoon for some time to get the proper con- 
sistency, and when, taking up a little on the spoon, 
a point is formed which retains its shape, it is ready 
to use. 

Marble-icing is made as above and by the aid of 
a cornet of paper, or a tin cornet made for the purpose, 
small lines of red and green icing can be made and 
put across in different directions ; and with the tip 
of a feather distributing it ; this is called sometimes 
feathered-icing. Alexandra-icing is made with butter 
and icing sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter to three 
ounces of the sugar ; it must be beaten till creamy 
and smooth, when any flavouring or colouring may 
be added. Icing should be dried in a cool oven, but 
it must not be heated. 

To spin sugar, put a pound of loaf sugar with as 
much cold water as will saturate it, about half a pint, 
and let it dissolve ; then add a pinch of cream of tartar, 
and boil it to the crack, then give it an extra boil. 

Take two silver forks, tie them together, dip the 
ends of the prongs into the sugar ; with the right hand 
whisk the sugar to and fro quickly over a rolling-pin, 
and the higher it is thrown the better. It will fall into 
a number of threads. Many persons stand on a chair 
when they are spinning sugar. 

To boil to the crack. Boil it till when a little is 
put into cold water it hardens and snaps like glass. 
Squeeze in a little lemon-juice, let the sugar remain 



CAKES, ETC. 197 

one minute longer on the fire, set the pan in another 
of cold water, and it will be ready for use. 

But to spin sugar properly and to make designs 
in it, it is quite necessary to have a couple of lessons. 



Almond Rings 

Take one pound of the best flour, pass it through 
a sieve to prevent any lumps. Dissolve half a pound 
of butter in a little warm milk and stir in the flour 
till it becomes a very smooth paste. Roll it out to a 
quarter of an inch in thickness and cut it into rings 
with two round cutters, one, of course, larger than 
the other. 

Place them on a tin or tins in a moderate oven 
for a quarter of an hour. Make some white icing and 
put it on the cake-rings whilst they are hot. Make 
the icing with half a pound of ground almond-paste 
mixed with a table-spoonful of elder-flower water. 
Beat the whites of two eggs to a very stiff froth and 
add to the almond mixture, then mix in slowly a 
pound of the best icing sugar. 

When the cakes are iced, they can be sprinkled 
with very finely chopped pistachio-kernels and orna- 
mented in any fanciful way that the cook may like. 

Angels' Food 

Take the whites of eleven eggs, one and a half 
tumbler of castor sugar, sift four times, beat the eggs 



198 COOKERY A LA MODE 

to a stiff froth, add the sugar very lightly until poured 
into the pan, which should be greased. Let them 
bake one hour ; turn out carefully ; let them cool, and 
then ice them over with either pink icing flavoured 
with noyau or brown icing flavoured with coffee. 

Bermuda Cake 

Beat four ounces of butter to a cream, beat the 
yolks and whites of two eggs separately for twenty 
minutes. Next add four ounces of sugar and the 
same of arrowroot, which has been rubbed through 
a sieve with the grated rind of a lemon. Mix all 
well together for half an hour. Line a cake-tin with 
greased paper, pour the mixture in, and bake in a 
moderate oven. When cool, ice it over with pink icing 
flavoured with maraschino and ornament with glace 
cherries and leaves cut in angelica. 

Brandy Snaps 

Melt two pounds of butter in a stewpan, then add 
three ounces of treacle, two of brown sugar, two 
ounces of flour, and a quarter of an ounce of ground 
ginger. Mix all thoroughly off the fire and then 
put one tea-spoonful of the mixture at intervals on a 
baking-tin. 

They will only take a few minutes to run into 
wafers and turn brown. Take out and let them 
remain for one minute, remove from the tin, and roll 
up the top part outside. Keep in a tin in a dry 
place. These are now fashionable for five-o'clock tea 
in the winter. 



199 



Cherry Cake 



Beat up four eggs, add one ounce of castor sugar 
and six ounces of fine sifted flour ; then melt half an 
ounce of butter and add it to the mixture (the butter 
must not be too hot or it will make the cake heavy) ; 
now add half a pound of preserved cherries cut in 
halves, and put in at the last a teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Bake about an hour and a quarter. When 
cold, turn it up and cover the bottom with almond 
paste two inches thick, and when that is smooth and 
settled, ice it over and ornament it with dried cherries 
and angelica cut into leaves. 

The icing should be flavoured with lemon or 
ratafia. (See Plate XXII.) 



Chocolate Cake. No. i 

Take half a pound of castor sugar and mix it 
with four ounces of grated chocolate and a table-spoon- 
ful of flour. Beat separately the whites and yolks of 
six eggs and beat the sugar and chocolate mixture 
into the whites ; add to the yolks the juice of one 
lemon, with the grated rind. Stir next the white and 
yolk mixture together. Bake in two square pans 
an inch and a half deep. 

When baked, spread some preserve on the top of 
one cake and place the other on the top of it and ice 
with white-icing flavoured with lemon, and ornament 
with sugar violets and silver balls. This cake is 
often cut into three-cornered pieces for afternoon tea. 



200 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Chocolate Cake. No. 2 

Take a cupful of sugar and two eggs, and beat 
them up together till very light ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter melted, then sift in two cupfuls of 
flour, one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, and add half 
a tea-spoonful of baking powder dissolved in a little 
milk. 

Bake in two layers. When baked, put the follow- 
ing cream between each layer : — 

Heat a large cup of milk, and when boiling stir in 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, one teacupful of fine 
sugar, and six table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate, and 
blend well together. Boil till stiff, and when cool 
add some essence of vanilla and spread the mixture 
between the layers. Place the layers one on the other 
and ice the top of the cake with the following icing : — 

Beat up the white of one egg stiffly with three- 
quarters of a cup of icing sugar and three table- 
spoonfuls of grated chocolate ; spread smoothly with a 
knife dipped in hot water. 



Coffee Cake 

Cream together one cupful of butter and two 
of sugar, then add the beaten yolks of five eggs ; 
then gradually add one cupful of strong coffee, then 
three and a half cupfuls of flour and two tea-spoonfuls 
of baking powder. This mixture should be quite 
stiff. Add one level tea-spoonful of salt, the same 
each of ground cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and a 



CAKES, ETC. 20 1 

little nutmeg. Then add one cupful of seedless 
sultanas and one of currants, plenty of thinly sliced 
citron, and one spoonful of brandy. Put in the oven 
and bake ; when cooked, ice the top with coffee-icing 
and with a rose pipe ornament the edges and middle 
with coffee cream-icing. 



Dinner Finger Bread 

Make some dough, cut it into long strips with 
a floured knife and then gradually roll out till quite 
thin ; sprinkle with a little rough dry salt before 
putting them into the oven, which should be a mode- 
rately cool one, and they should be baked for a long 
time till the biscuits are dry and crisp. 

Gateau Negresse 

Take the weight of four eggs in castor sugar, the 
same quantity of butter and flour, and four penny 
sticks of chocolate. Mix all well together and beat 
four whites of eggs to snow ; place it in cake pastry 
pans or tins as in ' Chocolate Cake,' page 199. 

Put chocolate cream between each row and cover 
the top with chocolate-icing. 



Nougat 

Take half a pound of sugar, put it in a basin with 
a little water. When the sugar becomes soft, add 
half a pound of sweet almonds peeled and cut into 



202 COOKERY A LA MODE 

strips ; stir without ceasing till the sugar becomes a 
good brown colour. Grease the moulds and place in 
the mixture, and put into the oven to dry. 



Orange Cake. No. i 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream with one 
pound of castor sugar ; add ten well-beaten eggs, 
one pound of flour, and one pint of orange wine. Bake 
in prepared tins in thin sheets, remove the brown 
crusts with a sharp knife, and cut each sheet into 
equal parts ; spread them with a layer of orange 
marmalade and place a layer of sliced oranges on the 
top, then place the other half on the top and glaze 
with orange-icing, and when the icing is set place in a 
design on the top some of the preserved orange slices. 

To make the orange-icing, take the juice of two 
lemons and two oranges, and mix with icing sugar 
till thick enough to spread over the cake. 



Orange Cakes 

Beat three eggs and five ounces of castor sugar 
to a cream, add six ounces of Vienna flour into which 
has been put a teaspoonful of baking-powder and 
the grated rind of one orange. Beat all well together 
and bake in dariole-moulds in a quick oven for a 
quarter of an hour. When cold, ice with the following 
icing : — Squeeze the juice from a large juicy orange, 
and mix it smoothly with a pound of icing sugar. Pour 
this all over the cakes and place in the oven, with the 



CAKES, ETC. 203 

door open, just to harden. The centre of the cake, 
if made in a cake-tin, can be ornamented with slices 
of orange preserve in the middle, or if made in the 
smaller moulds a slice of the orange preserve can be 
cut into four pieces, and arranged with a sugar violet 
in the centre. 



Elysium Cakes, or Petits Gateaux a TElysee 

Take four ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, 
four ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of grated 
cocoa-nut, a quarter of the grated rind of a lemon, and 
two eggs. Cream the butter, beat in the sugar, then 
the eggs, well beaten ; next, the dried and sifted flour ; 
then cocoa-nut and lemon-peel. Have ready some 
little square moulds about an inch square, butter 
them and put in the mixture ; sprinkle the moulds 
thickly with very finely grated cocoa-nut before 
putting in the mixture ; bake them in a quickish oven. 
When cooked, decorate the tops with four balls of 
almond paste (see Plate XVIII.) and colour some red, 
some pink, some brown, some violet, and some pale 
green. Arrange them in three, and one on the top. 
Before placing these balls, the tops of the cake should 
be iced between the balls; some pistachio-nuts or 
strips of angelica cut into leaf shapes should be 
placed between the balls. Of course, the almond 
paste must be coloured before making into balls. 

Sometimes these balls are made of preserved 
cherries cut in half and covered over with coloured 
icings. (See Plate XVIII.) 



204 COOKERY A LA MODE 



Smyrna Cake 



Make some Genoese paste the size required, cut 
into three rounds, spread the bottom thinly with 
apricot pulp. Put over it a thick layer of coffee- 
cream upon the apricot ; then place the middle 
round upon the bottom and mask with apricot 
and coffee-creams as before ; then place the top 
round on and mask the same, carrying the coffee- 
cream with the palette-knife all round the sides ; then 
have some desiccated cocoa-nut which has been 
slightly browned, and cover the sides with it upon 
which the cake is placed with the palette-knife, and 
then pipe with the coffee-cream, a small star border 
round the top, and a design in the centre. 

The Genoese paste is made thus : — Beat ten whites 
of eggs to a stiff snow, stir in eight ounces of powdered 
sugar, beat ten yolks of eggs for a minute, stir them 
in lightly, and then mix in six ounces of sifted flour 
only just enough to incorporate it, and at the same 
time four ounces of melted butter. Mix the whole 
together, then pour the mixture on to the prepared tins 
in a hoop, and bake. Coffee-cream, to make : — Beat 
half a pound of fresh butter to a cream with a quarter 
of a pound of icing sugar, add one yolk of an egg 
and a table-spoonful of Distil coffee essence, and beat 
till it is a light smooth cream. 



INVALID COOKERY 

' Chief nourisher in life's feast ' 

Macbeth 



i 



INVALID COOKERY 

An invalid requires nourishing and light food, 
especially in convalescence, when the strength has 
to be kept up ; but it is often a difficult matter, as 
invalids are often capricious and faddy in their 
appetites, and take a dislike for what is recom- 
mended to them. Cookery for an invalid should be 
most nutritious, but neither rich nor heavy, for 
the digestion is always more or less deranged for a 
time. 

Everything should always be served daintily, 
neatly, and punctually, and a little must be served 
only at a time, and never a repetition of the same dish 



Arrowroot 

Moisten two tea-spoonfuls of arrowroot with two 
table-spoonfuls of cold milk ; when quite smooth, pour 
in half a pint of boiling milk, then put it in a saucepan 
and stir over the fire for three or four minutes. Add 
two or three tea-spoonfuls of castor sugar to sweeten 
it. Wine or brandy can be added to this. To make 
water arrowroot, use the same quantities as above, 
substituting water for milk. 



208 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Arrowroot Jelly 

Take half a pint of water into a saucepan with a 
table-spoonful of brandy and castor sugar to taste ; 
boil it up, and add gradually a dessert-spoonful of 
arrowroot which has been rubbed smooth in two table- 
spoonfuls of water. Boil for about three minutes. 



Beef Tea 

Take two pounds of beef without any fat, and cut 
it into small dice. Put it in a gourmet boiler with a 
quart of cold water and leave it to soak for several 
hours, pricking it now and then with a fork. Then 
place the gourmet boiler into a stewpan of water, 
which must be brought to the boil, then let it simmer 
for three hours. Strain and put by till cold, removing 
all particles of fat ; when required, add a tea-spoonful 
of Valentine's beef juice or a tea-spoonful of Armour's 
extract of meat, and heat it to boiling-point. 



Brains au Gratin 

Take some calves' brains, boil and let them get 
cold, halve them and cut each half into thick slices, 
season with pepper, salt, oil, and chopped parsley. 
Put them on small skewers, roll them in melted 
butter, then in bread-crumbs, and grill them for 
twelve minutes. 



INVALID COOKERY 209 

Brown Bread Pudding 

Soak two table-spoonfuls of Hovis bread-crumbs 
in a gill of milk. Make a custard with half a pint of 
milk and the yolks of two eggs, sweeten to taste, and 
flavour with vanilla or lemon. Pour the custard 
whilst hot over the bread-crumbs. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth with some sugar and a 
little cream, stir lightly together, pour into a buttered 
pie-dish and bake for about twenty minutes. 

Chicken Panada 

Take the breast and wings of a boiled chicken, 
mix with an equal quantity of stale bread ; the 
water in which the chicken has been boiled should 
be added gradually. Boil for a few minutes, rub 
through the sieve, add salt and pepper and any 
flavouring liked. 



Chicken Saute 

(Mary Hooper) 

Cut the skin of a chicken just over the pinion 
bone and down to the leg ; turn it back, leave it on 
the chicken, and cut off the wing and a slice of the 
breast. Put half an ounce of butter into a frying-pan 
with a slice of fat bacon, which fry till cooked, then 
put in the wing of the chicken, lightly peppered and 
salted. Cook slowly, turning every minute till the 
chicken is done, which will take about ten minutes, 

P 



2IO COOKERY A LA MODE 

and if properly cooked will not be hard on the out- 
side. 

The rest of the fowl may be roasted or boiled as 
required. 



Cream and Cura^oa 

A table-spoonful each of cream and curagoa 
stirred together is an excellent restorative for sick 
persons suffering from exhaustion. 



Stewed Calf's Feet 

Stew a well- cleaned calf's foot in one pint of milk 
and one of water, with pepper and salt, and the grated 
peel of a lemon, for three or four hours. 



Currageen, or Irish Moss 

One pint of it boiled in a pint and a half of water 
will make a semi-transparent tasteless jelly ; it should 
be then sweetened and acidulated. This forms a 
most strengthening diet ; it can also be mixed with 
milk. 



Chicken Custard 

Beat a small chicken so as to break the bones, 
stew it in a pint and a half of cold water with a little 
salt for two hours. Strain, and add the yolks of six 



INVALID COOKERY 2 I I 



eggs or four whole eggs. Heat this till it almost 
boils, then pour it into little moulds and let cool. 



Baked Custard Pudding 

Warm half a pint of milk, whisk two whole eggs 
together ; pour the milk to them, stirring all the while. 
Pour this custard into the dish, grate a little nutmeg 
over the top, and bake in a slow oven for half an hour. 
The tart-dish should be lined at the edges with a little 
puff paste. 

Egg Cream and Sago Broth 

Take one ounce of sago, wash it well and stew it 
in half a pint of water till it is quite soft, gradually 
evaporating it down to one-half. Beat up one ^^^ 
with a gill of cream and add this to the sago gradually, 
stirring well ; then stir in gradually one pint of good 
boiling beef-tea. 

Egg and Sherry 

Beat up an o^^^ till it froths, then add a lump 
of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of water. Mix 
thoroughly and pour in a wineglassful of sherry and 
serve at once. 

Fish Steamed 

Take a whiting that has been skinned and 
filleted, dry it. Rub some butter over a soup-plate 

I' 2 



212 COOKERY A LA MODE 

and put in the fillets, add a few drops of lemon-juice, 
cover with another plate and stand over a saucepan 
of boiling water and reverse the plates once whilst 
cooking, which will take about twenty minutes ; then 
dish, and when serving pour over the liquor from the 
soup-plate. Sprinkle a few grains of finely minced 
parsley over. 



Gloucester Jelly 

Put one ounce of rice, sago, and pearl barley, a 
little sugar, together with three pints of water till 
reduced to one pint. When done, strain it and dis- 
solve it, when cold, in wine and milk or soup for an 
invalid. 



Invalid Pudding 

Take two-thirds of a cup of orange-juice, one- 
third of a cup of lemon-juice, one cup of water, the 
whites of three eggs, three table-spoonfuls of corn- 
flour, a pinch of salt and sugar to sweeten. Put the 
fruit juice and water on the fire, sweeten to taste, and, 
when boiling, stir in the corn-flour dissolved in a little 
cold water. Boil slowly ten minutes and then add 
the whites of the eggs stiffly beaten. Mix well, take 
off the fire, and turn into a wetted mould. Serve 
cold with a sauce made of the egg-yolks, one pint 
of milk, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and flavouring 
according to taste. 



INVALID COOKERY 



Invalid Sandwiches 



Take a quarter of a pound of raw fillet of beef, 
scrape it into fine threads, and place it on small deli- 
cately cut sandwiches. 

Pepper and salt to taste. These are most nou- 
rishing and strengthening, but it is well not to let the 
patient know the contents, as many would refuse to 
eat them if they knew they were raw. 



Meat Jelly 

Take one pound each of beef and veal, cut it up 
finely, and place it in a jar well covered down. 
Place the jar in a saucepan half full of water and let 
it stand for three hours on the fire. Then press the 
meat through a sieve and add to it half a pound of 
isinglass dissolved in a gill of water. When cold, 
remove all fat. 



Mutton Broth 

Take the lean part of a neck of mutton, about 
one pound ; remove all fat and cut it up into small 
pieces ; place this in a pint of cold water. Place it 
on the fire, and as the scum arises skim it carefully ; 
then let the broth boil for about two hours ; skim, and 
flavour. A tea-spoonful of pearl barley should be 
added when the broth begins to boil 



2 14 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Mutton Broth 

(Another Way) 

Cut Up two pounds of neck of mutton, remove all 
fat, put it into a saucepan with a quart of cold water 
and cover closely. Then boil till the meat falls to 
pieces. Skim and strain, add a table-spoonful of 
pearl barley which has been soaked in warm water 
sufficient to moisten it ; let it then simmer for half an 
hour, constantly stirring. Then add salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix in four table-spoonfuls of milk and a 
tea-spoonful of finely chopped parsley ; let it simmer 
for ten minutes. 

Mutton Chop in Beef-Tea 

Take a good loin chop, remove all fat and cut it 
into small pieces ; pound it in a mortar, then rub it 
through a wire sieve ; mix it with a cup of beef-tea 
and make it hot in a small saucepan, but it must not 
boil. 

Nourishing Milk Beverage 

Put half a pint of milk into a milk saucepan and 
heat it gently ; then draw the pan on one side and 
add a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of castor 
sugar, the beaten yolk of a new-laid Q%g and three 
table-spoonfuls of brandy or rum. Stir constantly 
by the side of the fire till the mixture is thoroughly 
hot without boiling, when it ought to be a trifle 



INVALID COOKERY 21 5 

thicker than ordinary milk and perfectly smooth. 
Then serve at once with a dry biscuit. 



Oranges for Invalids 

Take the strained juice of three oranges and one 
lemon and boil it up with sugar to taste and a pinch 
of isinglass. Cut up some oranges into neat pieces, 
removing all pips and pulp, and put them into a 
basin, and then pour over them the nearly cold 
syrup. 

Port-wine Jelly 

Take half a pint of port wine, one ounce of isin- 
glass, and an ounce anc a half of brown sugar-candy ; 
stir over a gentle fire for ten minutes, then steam 
through muslin and pour into a wetted mould and set 
aside to cool. A piece the size of an egg may be 
taken two or three times a day. 



To Cook a Small Sole 

Place a small sole in a fireproof dish ; having well 
buttered it, sprinkle lightly with salt, squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over, place a piece of buttered paper 
over it, and put in the oven for ten minutes. This is 
a most appetising dish for an invalid. 



2l6 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Fillets of Sole 

Take two fillets of sole, spread them on one side 
with a layer of bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and 
salt to taste, with a little beaten egg. 

Roll up the fillets and tie each round with a tape, 
boil them tender in a little acidulated water. When 
cooked, drain them and sauce them with a little white 
sauce in which an egg has been added. Put the 
fillets into the sauce till quite hot, but it must not 
boil. 

Sweetbread a la Sant6 

Take a nice heart sweetbread, blanch and put it 
into a stewpan with a small slice of ham, an onion 
stuck with two cloves, and two table-spoonfuls of 
rice. Cover with water and cook for an hour slowly 
till rice is cooked. Then remove them from the fire 
and reduce the broth to half a pint. 

Mince the sweetbread and return the broth ; add 
four table-spoonfuls of cream or milk, pepper and 
salt to taste. When cool, stir in four yolks and two 
whites of eggs well beaten, then steam in a mould for 
half an hour with a buttered paper ; place the mould 
in a stewpan containing about two inches of water 
Let it stand a few minutes before dishing it up. 

Tripe a la Normande 

Put into a stewpan two pounds of tripe cut into 
little square pieces, also a quarter of a pound,of bacon ; 



INVALID COOKERY 217 

cut up a carrot, two onions, two shalots, and a bunch 
of parsley all cut fine ; add two bay-leaves, four cloves, 
and twenty black peppercorns and four ounces of 
butter. Cover all with equal parts of good white 
stock and chablis, and stew slowly for five hours ; 
the tripe must be perfectly tender. When it is 
cooked, remove the tripe and strain the sauce ; thicken 
it slightly with a little white roux ; pour it over the 
tripe. Warm up and serve. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

Nothing nobler can be found in woman than to study household good 

Milton, 



PLATE XXI IT. 




1. Red and White Currants. 

2. Brandy Cherries iced. 



3. Melon cut for serving. 

4. Macedcine of Fruit. 



MISCELLANEOUS 

A GOOD cook studies her fire and thoroughly 
learns the peculiarities of her range, its draughts and 
dampers, learns its capabilities and the best way to 
maintain sufficient heat with the least consumption 
of fuel. A good cook never fries a rump steak nor 
boils a stew, and consults the tastes and tries in every 
way to suit the palates of her employers, even though 
her ideas and theirs do not agree. Everything 
should be measured with carefulness and directions 
followed implicitly, and all preparations for meals 
should be in readiness to begin giving to each dish 
its full time and right amount of heat, never letting 
the stove-top get red hot, nor putting the stewpans 
on the coals, and paying attention to what she is 
doing, and then the food would never burn, never be 
underdone, but always just right. 

A good cook will never forget she is cooking. 



Financiere Essence 

Take a slice of ham and about a couple of pounds 
of trimmings from poultry or game and stew them 
in a little stock. Bring to the boil, then simmer them 
gently for half an hour. Then add an onion stuck 



222 COOKERY A LA MODE 

with three cloves, one sprig each of parsley and 
thyme, a bay-leaf, a small carrot cut in pieces, a stick 
of celery, or, if not in season, a little celery-seed ; 
pepper and salt to taste ; add three pints of boiling 
weak stock. Bring to the boil, and then let it 
simmer very gently without the lid for a couple of 
hours and strain in a few drops of lemon-juice and a 
tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; tammy, and it will 
be ready for use. 



Frying Batter 

Beat up one table-spoonful of brandy, one of olive- 
oil, and a little cold water with the yolk of an ^g^ 
and a pinch of salt. Work in then enough flour to 
make, with the addition of more water, as much batter 
as may be required ; it should be of the consistency 
of thick cream. Just before using, whisk into the 
batter the whites of two eggs and mix them lightly 
and thoroughly. 

This is for a rich batter ; for ordinary purposes 
it can be made with milk and no brandy. 

A simple batter can be made with four ounces 
of flour, with as much milk added as will make a 
thick batter ; stir in the white and yolk of one Qg% 
beaten to a froth, and leave it in a warm place for an 
hour. 

Panada 

Take some crumb of bread with as much boiling 
stock poured over it as it will absorb. 



MISCELLANEOUS 223 

When moist, beat it with a fork ; add whatever 
seasoning is required ; put the bread into a saucepan 
with an ounce of butter, and stir over a gentle fire 
till it is dry and smooth and leaves the saucepan 
with the spoon. 

When cold, it is ready. 



Potato Croustades 

Boil the potatoes, rub them through a sieve, mix 
with a little milk and an ounce of butter, beat up 
well over the fire, and then place in a border-mould 
for a little while ; then turn out and brush over with 
white of egg and place in the oven for a few minutes. 



Royal- Icing 

Take twelve ounces of finely sifted icing sugar, 
whisk the whites of four eggs to a strong froth and 
stir in the sugar by degrees, beating it well the whole 
time. 

Mix in the strained juice of half a lemon and lay 
it on while the cakes or pastry are still warm, 
smoothing it over equally with a palette-knife, and 
then let it harden in a very cool oven. 

For pink-icing add a little cochineal, for coffee 
use a little Distil coffee essence, liquid chocolate for 
chocolate, and saffron essence for yellow-icing. 



2 24 COOKERY A LA MODE 



Socles 



Wash one pound of the best rice and put it in a 
stewpan with half a gallon of water and a little 
salt ; boil over a very slow fire. When cooked, pound 
it in a mortar and mould it to the required shape. 
For hot dishes the socle should be egged over and put 
in the oven to colour it. For cold dishes spread the 
rice over with Montpellier butter, tomato, or anchovy, 
&c., according to what the dish is composed of. 



Syrup 

Put half a pint of water in a saucepan over the 
fire ; when it boils, drop in gradually a pound of sugar ; 
when the sugar is dissolved let it boil up hard. 
Remove the scum as it rises. When it is clear it will 
be ready. To flavour, use either liqueurs or essences. 

Mayonnaise Jelly 

Take some pale aspic jelly and put it in a stew- 
pan with a gill of salad-oil, a dessert-spoonful of white 
vinegar, and a pinch of pepper and salt. Whip it 
sharply for ten minutes and then put it on ice. 

Then melt the jelly and whip it over ice till it sets 
again. 



PLATE XXIV 






»:. _x 



B 




A, Pate de Foie Gras ; B, Sucking-pig ; C, Calf's Head. 



MISCELLANEOUS 225 



CARES THAT INFEST THE DAY 

Kitchen Hints 

Instead of putting food into the oven to keep hot 
or to warm up, cover it closely with a tin and set it 
over a basin of boiling water ; this prevents it from 
drying. 

To Keep Egg Yolk 

Put the unbroken yolk into a cup and cover with 
water and it will keep fresh for three days ; the water 
must be poured off before using. 

Scorching Food 

When food scorches in cooking it should be 
immediately uncovered and set into a pan of cold 
water for a few minutes, then carefully removed from 
the pan without stirring the food which has been 
scorched ; and it will not taste of the scorch. 

Tasting 

When a cook's taste has become vitiated by tast- 
ing many dishes a small drink of milk will restore 
the delicacy of the palate. 

Q 



2 26 COOKERY A LA MODE 

To Prevent Odours from Cooking 

A lump of bread the size of a tennis-ball tied up 
in a linen bag and placed in the saucepan where 
greens are boiling will absorb the unpleasant gases 
which arise. 

Cedar shavings thrown into the fire will also 
ameliorate unpleasant cooking smells of water or 
grease spilt on the stove. 

To Prevent Pies Boiling Over in the Oven 

During the process of baking place the pie-dish 
in a flat dish or pan containing a little water. 

To Keep a Kitchen Range Free from Grease 

Put a piece of paper over the frying-pan and it 
will absorb all the grease. A corner of the paper 
can easily be lifted to see if the articles are done. 

Kettles to Keep Clean 

To keep kettles free from incrustation, caused by 
hard water, put an octopus into the kettle, which can 
be bought at any ironmonger's, or a flat oyster-shell, 
which will attract all particles of chalk. 

To Wash Dishes Properly 

First scrape off any food. Then let each piece be 
washed by itself in hot and clean water. Rinse 



MISCELLANEOUS 227 

thoroughly with cold water, and be sure to use dry 
cloths to finish with, and see there are no particles of 
soap in the corners of cups. Pudding-dishes or plates 
on which food has been baked should be soaked in a 
little salt and water before being washed. 



Glass to Wash 

When washing glasses which have been used for 
milk, they should always be rinsed first in cold water 
and then washed in hot, which will make it much 
easier to produce the proper point of brightness. 



Laying and Waiting at Table 

In laying a table, everything must be placed 
perfectly straight and not too near the edge of the 
table. The silver cutlery and glass must be very bright, 
and a clean selvyt cloth or leather should be kept in 
a sideboard drawer to rub anything that looks the 
least dull. The sideboard should be carefully arranged 
with silver and glass, &c., so as to avoid delays or 
absence from the room whenever an extra spoon or 
fork is required. 

Good waiting consists in extreme quiet, no rattle 
of plates nor dropping of silver, clashing of glasses, 
&c. The plates should be removed as they are 
done with. Everything except wine is handed on 
the left-hand side ; the dish must be firmly held, 
slightly tilting towards the person to whom it is 
offered. The lady on the right of the host should be 

Q 2 



228 COOKERY A LA MODE 

served first. If there are several at dinner there should 
be two servants, who should hand the entrees simul- 
taneously on either side of the table, beginning at 
opposite ends. The waiters should be seen and not 
heard, but yet they must have eyes for everything and 
see what each person requires. Where there is a 
butler, he has the charge of the wine, but, if not, the 
principal of the two servants undertakes it. Cham- 
pagne must be opened quickly and noiselessly, and 
great care must be taken in pouring out wine not to 
over-fill or spill any of it. 

The cover that is laid for each person is — On the 
right hand, two large dinner-knives and a silver fish- 
knife, and a table-spoon for soup ; on the left hand, 
two large forks and a fish-fork ; should there be hors- 
d'oeuvres, a dessert-spoon and fork is placed in front of 
the plate. The wineglasses, if for a dinner party — 
A champagne-glass, sherry-glass, and a hock- or claret- 
glass, placed to each guest. Salt-cellars and little 
pepper-castors are generally placed in front of every 
other guest. Serviettes should be nicely folded, but not 
elaborately. The mitre or escutcheon shapes are 
mostly used, though it is much the fashion now to place 
the serviette on the table quite plainly folded. 

When the guests have all been served with .xup 
sherry is handed. 

Hock is served with the fish, and the champagne 
is handed round directly after the first entree has been 
served. 

In changing the plates, fresh cutlery and silver 
must be put round to each guest, when required ; for 
all sweet dishes, a small dessert-fork and spoon is 



MISCELLANEOUS 229 

placed on the plate before it is put before the guest ; 
and for savouries a fork only, generally. But it 
depends on the savoury, for sometimes a small knife is 
required as well. When an entree consists of chicken, 
creams, patties, &c., it is eaten with a fork only. When 
salad is served, small salad-plates are handed round 
with the bowl and placed at the left-hand side of 
the dinner-plate. It is eaten with a knife and fork. 
Cucumber is handed round with the fish ; it is taken 
on to the dinner-plate and eaten with a fork. The 
sweets are eaten with a fork only, except in the case of 
tarts, when a spoon should be used as well. Pastry is 
also only eaten with a fork. After the savouries the 
table is cleared of everything that appertains to dinner, 
and the cover is brushed with a silver brush and scoop 
and dessert-plates are placed on the table before each 
guest. Ices are handed round immediately before 
dessert. On each dessert-plate should be placed a 
d'oyley, and on this the ice-plate, and on this again 
the finger-bowl, and also on the plate are placed the 
ice-spoon and the dessert knife and fork. Wineglasses 
— port, sherry, and claret — are placed round to each 
guest. After the ices, liqueurs are handed round, 
poured out in liqueur-glasses placed on a silver salver. 
After the ices are finished, the ice-plates are removed 
and the dessert is handed round, and then the 
wine. 

Coffee is served after dinner in the drawing-room 
to the ladies and to the gentlemen in the dining-room. 
Black coffee is usually taken, but cream, sugar, and 
milk should be handed with it. Cigars, cigarettes, and 
match-stands are generally handed to the gentlemen 



230 COOKERY A LA MODE 

with their coffee, as well as little glasses of champagne 
fin or other liqueurs. 

The decoration of the dinner-table itself must be 
left to the taste of the mistress of the house, which 
depends on what plate and china she has. Dessert 
sweets are generally arranged in little silver dishes, 
and the fruit at dinner parties is seldom placed on the 
table, as the table is generally covered with pretty 
silver ornaments, china, and flowers, There is no 
room for the fruit. 

To Clean Plate 

(A Silversmith's Recipe for Cleaning Plate) 

Take a little rouge and mix with spirits of wine, 
put it in a saucer. Place some on the silver with a 
pointed stick and rub briskly whilst it is wet with a 
clean piece of rag, and polish it finally with a leather. 

The success of cleaning plate well depends on 
the way the powder is used, which should be very 
sparingly. Plate should be washed in the hottest of 
boiling water, with a little soda and fine whitening 
made into a paste with a little methylated spirit, and 
then put on with a soft flannel ; rinsing in cold water, 
drying, and polishing with a buft' and afterwards with 
a selvyt cloth or wash-leather, is about the best way. 
Of course, rubbing it on the palm of the hand and with 
the finger and thumb till the silver feels quite hot 
polishes the plate best, but if the servant has a damp 
hand it is impossible to polish it, and it becomes dull 
and smudgy. Where the hand is damp, it is a good 
plan to take an old knife-board with the emery-cloth 



MISCELLANEOUS 2 3 I 

worn off, cover it with flannel and then with a piece 
of chamois-leather, and rub it hard on this ; but, of 
course, the inside bowls of spoons cannot be rubbed 
in this way. 

I always have all my silver boiled in the copper 
three times a year with a small handful of hartshorn 
powder in it. It is quite a necessity for entree dishes 
and covers, for they will get grease worked into 
them if the servants are at all parsimonious in their 
washing. 

I always use Spink's plate powder and his buff 
for polishing. I prefer the buff to the brush except 
when the silver is much chased, when the brush is a 
necessity. When putting away silver which is only 
occasionally used, pieces of camphor gum should be 
placed among it to prevent its tarnishing. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING AND IN 
THE KITCHEN 

Abaisse : Rolling in paste. 

Allemande : Reduced white sauce thickened with cream and yolks of 

egg and seasoned with lemon-juice. 
Angelica : A preserve used for decorating. 
Aspic : A savour}' jelly, 
Assiette; Small entrees and hors-d'neuvres, not more than a plate will 

hold. 
Assiettes volantes : Dishes handed and not put on the table. 
Attelets : Small silver skewers used in garnishing. 
Au bleu : Fish dressed in such a manner as to have a bluish appear- 
ance. 
Au gras : Dressed with meat gravy. 
Aiijiis : In a natural juice or gravy. 
Au natnrel : Plain simple cooking. 
Baba : A kind of light sweet cake. 
Bain-marie : A metal pan which has a loose bottom to hold water, 

into which small saucepans can be put for keeping warm. 
Barde: A thin slice of fat bacon placed over steaks, fowls, &c., 

instead of larding. 
Batterie de cuisine : A complete set of necessary apparatus for all 

culinary purposes. 
Bavaroise : A kind of cream and custard. 
Bechamel : A rich white sauce made with cream. 
Beignet : A pancake or fritter. 
Bisque : A soup made with shell fish. 
Blanc : White broth. 
Blanch: To parboil, to scald vegetables, &c. , in order to remove 

skins, &c., and to whiten poultry. 
Blanquette : A kind of fricassee made with white sauce and thickened 

with yolk of egg. 
Bligner : To fritter anything in buttered egg and fry. 
Bone : To remove all bones from poultry and meat. 
Boudin : A rich mixture of different meats minced. 
Bouilli : Beef much boiled. 
Bouillon : A thin soup or broth. 



TERMS USED IN COOKLXG 233 

Bojtqztet : Simply parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf tied together. 
Boiiijiiei garni : The same with the addition of cloves. 
Boiirguignote : A ragout of truffles. 
Braise : Meat cooked with bacon in a closely covered stewpan, to 

prevent evaporation. 
Braisi^re : A saucepan with ledges to the lid, so as to put fire on the 

top. 
Brider: To truss fowls with a needle and thread. 
Brioche : A kind of light spongy cake. 
Brochettes : Small skewers. 

Buisson : A cluster or bush of anything piled on a dish. 
CalUpash : The glutinous flesh of the turtle found on the upper 

shell. 
Callipee : The same found on the under shell. 

Camielons : Small rolls of anything filled with meat, fruit, or minces. 
Capilotade : A hash of poultry. 
Cara77iel : Burnt sugar. 

Casserole : A crust of rice, which, having been moulded to the re- 
quired shape, is filled with mince, fricassee, &c. 
Charlotte : Thin slices of bread steeped in clarified butter and placed 

in a plain mould with fruit or cream. 
Chartreuse : An ornamental entree composed chiefly of quenelle 

forcemeat and arranged in a plain mould. 
Chapehire : Bread-crumbing. 
Chasse : Liqueurs handed with cafe noir. 
Cheviiser : To line a mould. 
Civet : A dark thick stew. 
Compote : Stewed fruits served with syrup. 
Confitures : Preserves, sweets, jams, &c. 
Consomme : Strong clear gravy or broth. 
Contise: Small scallops of truffles, tongue, &c., inlaid as ornaments 

by incision in fillets of any kind. 
Conlis : A rich brown gravy. 

Couronne, en : To dish up entrees in the form of a crown. 
Croqtiantes : A bright mixture of fniit and boiled sugar. 
Croquettes : Minces of meat, fish, or fowl made into various shapes, 

rolled in egg and bread-crumbs and fried crisp. 
Croustades : Fried shapes of bread upon which various entrees are 

served. 
Crodtons : Fried sippets of bread used for garnish. 
Cjiisson : The liquor in w'hich meats have been boiled. 
Dariole : A sweet tart baked in a mould. 
Daube^ en : Meat, fowl, or game stewed in sauce. 
Daubiere : An oval stewpan. 



2 34 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Desosser : To bone poultry, game, fish, &c. 

Dorure : Yolks of eggs well beaten for decoration. 

Echauder : To dip in very hot water. 

Emincer : To mince. 

Emonder : To skin almonds. 

Entree : Dishes handed round after the fish, comprising cutlets. 

salmis, chartreuses, and all made dishes, Szc. 
Entremets : Second-course dishes, comprising dressed vegetables, 

savouries, and sweets of all kinds. 
Escalopes : Collops, small thin round pieces of meat, poultry, or fish. 
Espagnole : Brown sauce, very rich. 
Etajnine : A tammy. 
Etonffer : To stew in a closed saucepan. 

Fagot : A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a bay-leaf. 
Faire reroenir : To semi-fry. 

Fanchonettes : Varieties of small pastry meringued over. 
Farce : Forcemeat stuffing. 
Farcie : Stuffed. 
Feiiilletage : Rough paste. 
Financilre : A highly flavoured dish. 
Flair : A French custard, 
Flamber : To singe fowls or game. 
Flans : Varieties of French cheese-cakes. 
Florenthies : Light pastry iced over. 

Foncer : To put slices of ham or bacon at the bottom of the saucepan. 
Fondue : A cheese dish of the souffle order. 
Fricandeau : A dish of lamb or veal cookery, &c. , without bone, larded 

and glazed with a concentration of its own liquor. 
Fricassee : Chickens, &c., cut in pieces and cooked in rich white sauce 
with mushrooms and other accessories. 

Friture : Butter for frying. 

Fritter : Anything made in batter and fried. 

Galette : A broad thin cake, a kind of muffin. 

Gdtean : A cake. 

Gauffres : Light spongy biscuits. 

Glace' : Anything iced. 

Glaze : Stock boiled down to jelly. 

Godiveati : A variety of forcemeats. 

Gras : Made with meat. 

Gratiii : A forcemeat made with meat and thin panee 

Gratiner : To grill. 

Haricot : A stew made with mixed vegetables and meat. 

Hdtelet : A small silver skewer, sometimes spelt attelet. 

Hors-d'ceuvres : These are appetisers, or whets to the appetite, and 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 235 

eaten before soup, and consist of sardines, oysters, and anchovies, 

caviare, foreign dried sausages, &c. 
Jardiniere : Vegetables stewed in their own sauce. 
Lardoon : The stri ps of bacon used for larding. 
Lard: To pierce the meat with bacon. 

Liaison : A mixture of cream and egg, used to thicken with. 
Lit : Thin slices in layers with seasoning between. 
Luting : A paste made of flour and water and used to fasten on the 

lids to pie-pans when preserving game in order to prevent evapora- 
tion. 
Macedoine : A mixture of vegetables with the addition of some kind of 

sauce. 
Macedoine of fruit : A mixture of fruits in syrup. 
Macerer : To soak meat, &c., in cold liquid to extract their juices. 
Madeleine : A kind of queen cake ornamented with preserve and 

sugar, &c. 
Maigre : Without meat. 

Marinade : To steep fish or meat in certain juices or liquor. 
Mask : To cover meat over with forcemeat, &c. 
Matelote : A rich fish stew made with wine. 
Mayonnaise : Salad dressing. 
Mazarine : An ornamental entree. 
Me7l^^ : Bill of fare. 

Miringjtes : Light pastry made with whites of egg and sugar. 
Mijoter : To cook slowly on a very little fire. 
Mirlitons : Varieties of French cheese-cakes. 
Miroton : Slices of meat, larger than collops, stewed in rich sauce and 

dished up in a round. 
Motdller : To add broth or water during cooking. 
Nougat : A mixture of almond and burnt sugar and lemon-juice. 
Nouilles : Strips of paste made of eggs and flour. 
Paillasse : A grill made over cinders. 

Panada : A mixture of bread, milk, &c., used in making forcemeats. 
Paner : To egg and bread-crumb. 

Papillotes : Greased paper fastened over fish and cutlets. 
Parer : To trim. 
Pdte : A small pie. 

Paupiettes : Slices of meat rolled, sometimes called Polpetti. 
Piece de resistance : The principal joint of the dinner. 
Piece niontee : A dish very highly elaborated and dressed high. 
Pilau : A dish of meat or poultry with rice. 
Piping : Sugar decorations used in ornamenting cakes, pastry, &c. 



236 COOKERY A LA MODE 

Piqu^ : Larded. 

Pluchc: Leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, &:c., cut very 

small. 
Poelee : Stock used instead of water for boiling. 
Potage : Soup. 

Printaiiiers : Early spring vegetables. 
Profiteroles : Light pastry with cream inside. 
Putts : The hollows in the centre of dishes. 
Puree : Meat and vegetables reduced to a pulp and then mixed with 

other liquids to the consistency of thick soup. 
Quenelles : Delicate forcemeat formed into balls and poached. 
Ragoiit : Quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, &c. , mixed in a rich sauce. 
Releve : The remove dishes. 
Remoiilade : Salad dressing. 

Rissoles : Pastry made of light puff paste filled with minces and fried. 
Roux : A mixture of butter and flour used for thickening soups and 

sauces ; there are two kinds, white and brown. 
Salmi : A highly finished hash of game or wild fowl with a rich sauce. 
Salpicon : A mixture of different finely-chopped meats. 
Sassey : To work a sauce with a spoon. 

Sauce piqiimite : A sharp sauce, vinegar or lemon predominating. 
Sauter : To cook in a saucepan with sauce, constantly shaking it. 
Sej-vieffe, a la : Served up in a table-napkin. 
Sippets : Small pieces of bread cut into different shapes, fried and used 

for garnish. 
Souffie : A light pudding. 
Stock : The broth of which soups are made. 
Tamis, ta?}imy : A strainer or fine sieve, for straining broth, sauces, 

creams, &c., through. 
Jimbale : A sort of pie made in a mould. 
Tornedos : Very small fillets of beef cut thicker one end than the 

other. 
Tourte : (Tart) fruit pie baked in a shallow dish. 
Tourney : To stir a sauce. 
Trifle : A sweet dish made of sponge cake, macaroons, jam, wines, 

and liqueurs. 
Travailley : To reduce gravy. 
Trousser : To truss. 
Tttrban : See Mazarine. 

Vanner : Lifting a sauce up and down with a spoon. 
Veloute : A very rich white sauce. 
Vol-aii- Vent : Puff- paste cases of ragouts, &c. 
Zest : Thinly pared rind of lemon or orange for flavouring. 



INDEX 



Almond Rings, 197 

Anchovy Trifles, 177 

Angel's Food, 197 

Apricot Cream a la Princesse, 146 

— Solid, 146 
Arrowroot, 207 

— Jelly, 208 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, Parmi- 

giana, no 
Asparagus Patties, no 
Aspics of Wild Duck, 89 



Ballettes a la Billard, 147 

— a la Buller, 57 

— a la Joujou, 147 
Banana Blancmange, 147 
Barberry Cream, 148 
Baskets a la Savarin, 178 
Batter, to Make, 222 

Beef Fillets with Mushrooms, 58 

— Pressed, a la Cornwall, 55 

— Tea, 208 
Beefsteak Pudding, 56 
Blanc Mange of Banana, 147 
Bordure a la Beaconsfield, 144 
Boudin a la Kaiser, 56 
Boules a la Durban, 19 
Brains au Gratin, 208 

— Sheep's, Roasted, 77 
Brandy Cherries in Masquerade, 

149 
Brandy Snaps, 198 
Brioches a la Devon. 178 



Cabbages, Stuffed, 112 
Caisse de Gibier Prince de Galles, 
94 



Cakes, Hmts for Making, 195 

— Cherry, 199 

— Chocolate, 199, 200 

— Coffee, 200 

— Elysium, 203 

— Orange, 202 

— Smyrna, 204 
Calf's Brains, 57 
a I'Epicure, 58 

— Feet a 1' Italia, 58 
Stewed, 210 

— Fritters, 58 
Canapes a la Brighton, 20 
Cannelons, Coffee, i'5i 
Carrot and Turnip Mould, 11 
Cauliflower a la Biarritz, 115 
Champignons en Surprise, 148 
Chartreuse a I'AIexandra, 59 

— a I'Echec, 59 

— d'Homard a la Randolph, 60 

— of Lobster a la Prince Edward, 

91 

— d'Orange, 163 

— a la Reine, 157 
Chaudfroid a la Homburg, 61 

— Grouse a la Pekin, 94 
Chicken Custard, 210 

— a la Chancelliere, loi 

— a la Como, 91 

— a la Czar, 93 

— Devilled a la Dante, 62 

— Medallions a \^ Audrey, 97 

— Mousse a la St. Andrew, 98 

— Panada, 209 

— Quenelles a la Merveille, 75 

— Saute, 209 

— en Tom beau, 92 
Cigarettes a la Royale, 93 
Cockscombs, 61 



238 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



Cockscombs en Truffes, 76 

— Rissoles, 76 

Codfish a la Moderne, 211 
Coffee Cannelons, 151 
Compote of Fruits Genevoise, 153 
Coquembouche d'Oranges, 153 
Corbelles a la Fantaisie, 152 

— Fantastiques, 157 

— a la Nougat, 154 

— a la Nimrod, 152 

— a la Peg Woffington, 155 

— a la Trilby, 156 
Cornucopias a la Sevigne, 155 
Crab Rissoles, 21 

— a la Transvaal, 21 

— a la Twentieth Century, 21 
Crawfish a la Parisienne, 6^ 
Cream, Apricot, 146 

— Barberry, 148 

— and Curacoa, 210 

— Epine Vinette, 148 

— of Hare a la Gil Bias, 95 

— of Lapin ' 100 up,' 96 

— Neapolitan, 162 

— Pistache, 168 

— a la Porte Veine, 85 

— of Veal au General, 85 

— of Venison a la Danoise, 104 
Creme a la Coralie, 156 

Crete de Coq aux Truffes, 76 
Croquettes au Rhodes, 61 
Croustades, Potato, 223 
Croutes a la Dunkeld, 179 
Culinary Terms, 232 et seq. 
Currageen, 210 
Curry, Prawn, Iced, 75 

— en Surprise, 64 
Custard, Baked, 211 

— Chicken, 210 
Cutlets a la Fridello, 62 

— a la General, 67 

— Rouge et Noir, 67 

— a la Siegfried, 71 

— a la Tintara, 72 

— Lamb, Financiere, 68 

— Mutton a la Pompadour, 71 

— Pork a la Gourmet, 74 
a la Roi, 74 

— Veal a I'Andalouse, 82 

a la Clothilde, 82 

a la Donna Anna, 83 



Cutlets, Veal, a la Dundonald, 83 
a la Heinz, 84 

Darioles a la Como, 179 
Dishes, to Wash, 226 
Ducks a la Rouennaise, 89 

EcREVissES a la Parisienne, 63 
Egg Baskets aux Huitres, 22 

— Cream and Sago Broth, 211 

— and Sherry, 211 

— Yolk, to Keep, 225 
Eggs Besciamella, 181 

— poached in Puff Paste, 186 

— en Surprise, 157 

Entrees and their Cooking, 47 et 

seq. 
Entremets and their Preparation, 

145 
Exeter Pancakes, 158 

Finnan Haddock Patties, 36 
Fish Cookery, i et seq. 

— Balls Bizarre, 181 

j a la Nouveaute, i 

— Steamed; 211 

— Timbaleof, 40 
Foie Gras Fritters, 63 

— — Medallions a la Rosiere, 
180 

Food Scorching, to Remedy, 225 
Forcemeats, 53, 54 
Fromage a la Swede, 182 

Game, its Cookery, 89 

Gateau Negresse, 201 

Genoese Paste, 204 

Glass, to Wash, 227 

Grouse Chaudfroid a la Pekin, 94 

Ham and Chicken Moulds a la 

Florentine, 66 
Hare Cream a la Gil Bias, 95 

— Jugged en Surprise, 160 
Hors-d'oeuvres, 177 et seq. 



Iced Prawn Curry. 

— Souffle, 159 

— Tomato Souffle, 



75 



191 



INDEX 



239 



Icing, Royal, 223 

Invalid Cookery, Notes on, 207 

Irish Moss, 210 



Jambonneaux de Poulet a la 

Florentine, 60 
Jelly, California, 150 

— Frontignac, 158 

— Gloucester, 212 

— Harlequin, 160 

— Macedon, 161 

— Mascarade in, 159 

— Mayonnaise, 224 

— Meat, 213 

— Mulberry, 162 

— Port-wine, 215 

— Prawn, 30 

— Printemps, 160 

— Raspberry a la Dieppe, 169 

— Rhubarb and Banana, 169 

— Tomato, 191 

— Twentieth Century, 150 
Jerusalem Artichokes, Parmi- 

giana, iio 



Kari en Surprise, 64 
Kettles, to Keep Clean, 226 
Kidneys a la Apicius, 64 

— a la Belle Vue, 65 

— a la Curio, 170 

— Fritters, 65 

— Stewed with Mushrooms, 65 
Kippers a la Sutton, 182 
Kitchen Hints, 228 

— Range, to Keep Clean, 226 



Lamb, Breast a la Grecque, 66 

— Cutlets a la Financiere, 68 

— Tails, Ragout of, 76 
Lark Pie, 97 

Lax Savoury a la Arlequin, 23 
Laying Dinner Tables, 227 
Liver and Bacon a la Bourgeoise, 

68 
Lobster Chartreuse, 23 

— Cream Chartreuse a la Prince 
Edward, 91 

— a la Kitchener, 24 



Lobster a la Newmarket, 25 

— Salad, 183 

— a la United Service, 25 
LucuUus Patties, 69 

Macaroni alia Napoli, 184 

— Timbale, 113 
Macedoine of Fruits, 161 
Mackerel a la Venitienne, 25 
Medallions a la Diana, 69 
Melange a I'Empire, 70 
Milanese Frivolities, 70 
Milk Beverage, 214 

Mousse de Volaille a la St. 

Andrew, 98 
Mushroom Souffle, 184 

— a la Tuileries, 184 
Mussels a la Gourmet, 26 

— Stewed, 26 
Mutton Broth, 213, 214 

— Chop in Beef Tea, 214 

— Cutlets a la Pompadour, 71 

Neapolitan Cream, 162 
Nougat, 201 

Ocean Flowers, 164 

Odours, Cooking, to Prevent, 226 

Omelet Royal, 1S7 

Orange Chartreuse, 163 

— Coquembouche, 153 

— for Invalids, 215 

— Sandwiches, 163 
Oriental Patties, 72 
Oyster Aigrettes, 27 

— Baskets, 27 

— a la Flamande, 184 

— a la Montreal, 184 

— Pancakes, 184 

— Patties a la Napoli, 28 

— a la Prince Edward, 28 

— a la St. Pierre, 30 

— Rissolettes, 29 

— Souffle, Iced, 29, 184 

— Surprise a la Baden -Powell, 
164 

Panada, 222 
Parmesan Tartlets, 186 
Partridges a la Masonic, 28 



240 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



Patties, Oriental, 72 
Peach Pyramid, 168 
Pear Mould, 165 
Pears a la Sevigne, 166 
Pheasant Blanc Mange aux 
Truffes, 99 

— a la St. Charles, 100 

— Pie, 100 

— Quenelles, Prince Albert, loi 
Pies, to Prevent Boiling Over, 226 
Pineapple Bavarian Cream, 166 

— Layer Cake, 167 

— Souffle, 167 
Plate, to Clean, 230 
Pork Croquettes, 73 

— Cutlets a la Berlin, 73 
a la Gourmet, 74 

— au Nid, 187 

— au Roi, 74 
Potatoes en Surprise, 112 
Prawns montes, 30 

— Curry, Iced, 75 

— Jelly, 30 

— au Naturel a la mode, 187 

— Rissoles, 30 

Pudding, Brown Bread, 209 

— Royal, 170 

— San Toy, 171 

— Strawberry, 171 



Quails in Cases, 102 

— a la Melba, 1 02 

— a la Meunier, 103 
Quenelles de Volaille a la 

Merveille, 75 



Rabbit Cream ' 100 up,' 96 
Raspberry Fool, Iced, 168 
Red Mullet a la Pasha, 31 

a la Livorno, 32 

Ris de Veau a la Supreme, 78 
Rissoles of Cockscombs, 76 
Rognons a la Curio, 170 
Russian Tartlets, 188 



Salad, Cucumber and Prawns, 

179 
— Lobster, 1S3 



Salad a la Red vers, 114 

Salmi of Woodcock a la Royale, 

91 
Salmon Bombes aux Concombres, 

32 

— en Fete, 33 

— Pudding Romano, 34 

— Verde a la, 34 
Sandwiches, Caviare, 178 

— Orange, 165 
Sardines a la Brighton, 36 

— .Madras, 188 

— Spinach with, 36 

— Stuffed Provencale, 36 

— a la Valetta, 189 
Sauce, Ambassador's, 121 

— Anchovy, 121 

— Apples, 122 

— Aurora, 122 

— Bearnaise, 122 

— Bechamel, 123 

— Beurre Noir, 123 

— Black, 124 

— Bordelaise a la Goufte, 124 

— Bread, 124 

— Brown, 125 

— Caper, 125 

— Caramel, 125 

— Champagne (Iced), 130 

— Chateaubriand, 125 

— Chaudfroid, 126 

— Cherry, 130 

— Cranberry, 126 

— Chili, 126 

— Cucumber, 126 

— Diable, 127 

— D'Uxelles, 127 

— Espagnole, 128 

— Fennel, 128 

— Plnanciere, 12S 

— Framboise, 129 

— Geneva, 129 

— Green, 129 

— Ham, 129 

— Horse-radish, 130 

— — a la Tedesco, 130 

— Irlandaise, 131 

— Italian, 131 

— Lemon, 131 

— Madras, 131 

— Mayonnaise, 132 



INDEX 



241 



Sauce, Mousseline, 133 

— Mushroom, 133 

— Orleans, 133 

— Oyster, 133 

— Parsley, 134 

— Pease Pudding, 134 

— Perigueux, 135 

— Piquante, 135 

— Poivrade, 135 

— Port-wine, 136 

— Portuguese, 136 

— Ravigote, 136 

— Reform, 137 

— Remoulade, 137 

— Robert, 137 

— Schiller, 138 

— Shalot, 138 

— Soubise, 138 

— Supreme, 138 

— Swedish Iced, 139 

— Sweet and Sharp, 139 

— Tarragon, 139 
— ■ Tartare, 139 

— Tomato, 139 

— Truffle, 139 

— Villeroi, 134 

Sauces, their Preparation, 119 ^/ 

seq. 
Scorching Food, 225 
Shrimps a I'Espagnole, 37 
Smelts Fried Sauce Tartare, 37 
Socles, 224 
Sole Bombes a la Baltique, 37 

— a la Dundonald, 38 

— Fillet, 216 

a la Rothschild, 39 

— for Invalids, 215 

— a la Rouennaise, 39 

— a la Stella, 40 
Souffles, Iced, 159 

— Pineapple, 167 

— Tom Thumb, 190 
Soups, Making of, i et seq. 

— Bonne Femme, 5 

— Calf-tail, 6 

— Cauliflower a la Spagna, 6 

— Cockaleekie, 7 

— Genoa, 8 

— Her Majesty's, 7 

— Julienne, 8 

— Kidney a la Auckland, 9 



Soups, Leek, 9 
a la Reine, 10 

— Lentil, 10 

— Macaroni, 10 

— Monte Carlo Consomme, 

— Mushroom, 1 1 
and Lobster, 12 

— Mutton, 12 

— Sago ^ la Creme, 13 

— Sheep's Head Broth, 13 

— Tomato, 14 
Strawberries en Paradis, 172 
Stuffing, 53 

Sugar, to Boil, 197 

— to Spin, 196 
Surprise Mushrooms, 148 
Spinach and Poached Eggs, ] 
Swans a la Henley, 78 
Sweet Poached Eggs, 171 
Sweetbreads a la Potosi, 81 

— a la Sante, 216 

— a la Supreme, 78 
Syrups, 224 



Tartlets Bizarres, 190 

Terms used in Cookery, 232 ct 

seq. 
Timbale of Macaroni, 79 
Tit-bits a la Mikado, 190 
Tomato Curr>', Iced, 191 

— Jelly with Bloater Roes, 191 
Tomatoes and Spinach, 116 

— en Surprise, 112 
Tongue, Pressed, 63 
Tornados a la Natal, 80 
Toronto Moulds, 191 
Torpedos, 80 

Trifle a la Old Century, 172 
Tripe a la Normande, 216 
Trout (Truite) Saumonee a la 
^^orwegian, 41 

— Turban of, 41 
Truffles a I'ltalienne, 192 

— a la Milan, 1 1 1 
Turbot a la Grimaldi, 42 

— Heloise, 42 

— Mosaique, 43 

Turnip and Carrot Mould, i \i 

— Pasties, 114 



242 



COOKERY A LA MODE 



Veal Cream a la General, 85 

— — a la Andalouse, 82 

— - - a la Clothilde, 82 

Donna Anna, 83 

Porte Veine, 85 

— Cutlet, 83 

a la Dundonald, 83 

a la Heinz, 84 

Vegetable Marrow a I'Andalouse, 

IIS 

a la Firenza, 115 

Vegetables, their Cookery, 109 



Venison Cream a la Danoise, 

104 
Vol-au-vent of Lamb Sweetbreads 

en Blanquette, 84 



Waiting at Table, 227, et seq. 
Walnuts, to Candy, 173 
Wild Duck in Aspic, 89 

Jugged, 89 

a la Serviette, 104 



PRINTED BY 

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO. LTD., KEW-STREET SQUARE 

LONDON 



^ 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 

lllllllllili , 

3 9999 05987 658 9 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



JUL 



5 1916 



liPilli»lM;i 



