





A California Cook Book 



Second Edition 





' 



PRICE $1.00 




for Every thing Under the Sun 



But More Particufarfy 
For all the ingredients 

ij 

necessary to make ev- 
ery recipe within the cov- 
ers of this truly valuable 
Cook Book a complete . 



success go to 



FORDS SAINBORN CO., 

5afina& Citu, Monterey County, Cal, 




The Staff of Liife 



Every housekeeper is interested, or should be, in 
the art of good bread making. To obtain this most im- 
portant article be careful to select the BEST FLOUR. 
Of course poor bread can be made from good flour by 
careless making, but it is impossible to make good bread 
from poor flour. Therefore be careful in the selection of 
your flour. The 




is particularly suited for family use, 
being especially manufactured for this 
purpose, and is acknowledged to be the 

BEST FAMILY FLOUR 

i 

made. It is not only 
the best quality, but 
it is more economical 
than ordinary flours, 
because it requires 
more water in mak- 
ing the dough. It 
keeps moist and is 
more nutritious than 
other flours. 

Sold by ALL GROCERS 



dlainne and 

Inland Insurance 



San Francisco, California 



Capital - $1,000,000 

Assets - - - $4.250,000 



Protect home industry and insure with the Fire- 
man's Fund, one of the most reliable companies in the 
world. 



WILLIAM J. DUTTON, President 
BERNARD FAYMONVILLK, Vice President 
J. B. L^VTSON, 2d V. Pres. and Marine Sec'y. 
LOUIS WST^MANNN, Sec'y. 
F. W. LOUGEE, Treasurer 
.3. D. IVES, General Agent 




SALINAS CITY BANK 



Capital Paid Up 
Surplus 



$300,000 
140,000 



DIRECTORS 



J. H. McDOUGALL, President- \V. J. IRVINE, Acting President. 

Elisha Archer, Henry Bardin, Uriah Wood. 

W. S. JOHNSOX, Cashier 

PRANK S- CLARK, Ass't Cashier 



CORRESPONDENTS. 

Bank of Montreal, London; National Park Bank,. 
New York; First National Bank, Sau Francisco; Farm- 
ers & Merchants Bank, Los Angeles; Hongkong & 
Shanghai Banking Corporation, at Hongkong, Shan- 
ghai, Yokohama and Manila. 

Safe Deposit Boxes for rent at nominal rates. 



THE SAN FRANCISCO CALL 



JOHN J>. 

The Leading Republican Daily 

THE 

SUNDAY 
CALL 

32 Pases 

$1.5O per year 

with beautifully illus- 
trated supplement 
devoted to 

ART, LITERATURE 
and THE STAGE. 



SPKECKELS, Prop'r 

of the Pacific Coast 

Essentially a Home Paper 



Always clean 
and non-sensati 




THE 

WEEKLY 
CALL 

1 O pages 

$1.OO per year 

vo ted to 

THE FARM and MIN- 
ING ndustries of 
Coast 



Daily and Sunday 
edition by mail 

$6.00 per year 
payable in advance 



ji- Address all communi- 
cations to 



~I~^' W.S. LEAKE 
Manager 

Sau Francisco, Cal. 



Abbott Meat Market 



. A. flBBOTT and T. P. JOY 

PROPRIETORS 



232 Main St. Salinas, California 



Fresh and Salt Meats 

Poultry, etc., etc. 

Best Quality only Free Delivery 



n* {go. 

(INCORPORATED) 



LOTS, RANCHES, IMPOROVED PROPERTY 

FOR SALE: 

MONTEREY, CALIF. 



STREET 

, CJPll, 



M. HUGHES 

Saddle and 
Harnessmaker 

Carries a full stock of goods in his line, well made from 
the best material. 

Harness, Whips, Saddles, Martingales 

Constantly on hand. Repairing promptly and neatly 
executed. Terms reasonable. 



WHEN PREPARING 




Food for the table there is added comfort and 
satisfaction if all the utensils required are giv- 
ing the service you require of them. 



THE FAIR 



Is the place to get your 

SILiS, the good, reliable, substantial kind. 

THE: FAIR 



A SECOND EDITION 



OF 




A COOK BOOK 



. H. li. 



RJiD 



FOR THH 



liflDlES OF ST. PflUli'S GUlLtD 



, CALi. 



AND DEDICATED 



To those plucky Housekeepers who master their 
own work instead of letting it 
master them. 



PACIFIC GROVE, CAUF. 

WALLACE CLARENCE BROWN, BOOK AND JOB PRINTER 
1902 



We may live without friends, we may live without books, 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks; 

He may live without books what is knowledge but 

grieving ? 

He may live without hope what is hope but deceiving ? 
He may live without love what is passion but pining ? 
But where is the man that can live without dining ? 

Owen Meredith. 



Preface. 

In collecting these "Crumbs From Every- 
body 's Table' ' and presenting them to onr many 
friends, it is with the assurance that we give 
to all subscribers a cook book, rich in the best 
kind of recipes and rules for practical cooking, 
making it, we trust, acceptable not only to 
those Avho are proficient in the art of cooking, 
but particularly so to those who are young 
and inexperienced housewives. 

These recipes have all been tested in our 
various homes, and we feel the strongest as- 
surance that if faithfully followed will produce 
the best of results. 



' 'Each recipe is plain and tried, 

And some good housewife's honest pride, 

Some home's delight; 
And should your effort bring no prize, 
I '11 say not where the trouble lies 

'Twere impolite. ' ' 

SECOND EDITION. 



L,. PORTBR 



Room 6, flcDougall Building 

Salinas City 

California 



AGENT 

Loma Prieta Lumber Co. 
Liverpool and London and 

Globe Insurance Co, 
The United States Fidelity 



and Guaranty Co. f 



Of Baltimore, 



Soups 



"The onion is a homely plant, 
And rank sis most that grows, 
And yet it beat*, to mix with soup 
TliH lily or the rose." 

Meats for soup should always be put < n 
to cook in cold water, and allowed to simmer 
slowly for several hours. 

Stock should be prepared the day before 
the soil]) is needed. 

Essence of celery or celery seed can be used 
for soups if celery stocks are not at hand. 

Soups should be cooked in granite or por- 
celain kettles. 

TO TLAKIFY SOUPS. 

Beat an egg. shell and all, add a little cold 
water and some of the hot stock and beat 
again; then pour into sou]) while boiling and 
beat the whole thoroughly and long. Let it 
boil up once, remove and strain through a hot 
wet napkin. 

'STOCK FOR SOFPS. 

To four pounds of beef add four quarts of 
cold water and one tablespoonful of salt, one 
bay leaf, six cloves, one onion, one carrot, one 
turnip and one dozen whole black peppers. 
Bring slowly to a simmering- point, never allow- 
ing- to boil uj). If the bone is a shank have 

Use Krough's Vanilla and Lemon Extracts 



18 SOUPS 

the bone broken, arid for four pounds cook four 
hours. If brisket, cut in squares and cook two 
hours. Beef-steak bones, ends of steaks and 
chops, cold meats that cannot be used other- 
wise, either cooked or raw, should be used for 
the stock kettle. When done, boil up well for 
ten minutes, strain, and set away to cool. 
When cold, skim off all the fat, and use the 
stock as desired for the basis of all consomme 
and vegetable soups. 

MRS. J. K.'DixoN, Stockton. 

DICE FOR SOUPS. 

Cut slices of bread and butter them ; cut 
into .small squares, put into a pan, buttered 
side up, and brown in a quick oven. 

CARAMEL, ( FOB COLORING SOUPS BROWN). 

Place two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar 
in a sauce pan, let boil up and burn almost 
black. While still boiling- add one cupful of 
boiling water, a tablespoonral at a time. 
Strain and bottle for future use. 

MRS. J. R. DIXON, Stockton. 

SOUP STOCK. 

To four pounds lean beef put four quarts 
cold water. Put in the water without salt, 
and let it come slowly to boiling point. Skim 
well before the agitation of the water has 
broken the scum, then add a teaspoonful of 
salt and a dash of cold water to help the scum 
rise again; skim; set back and let it simmer 
gently, that is, boil on one side, not all over, 
for six or eight hours, until the meat is in rags; 
add a little pepper, strain into an earthen ves- 



SOUPS IP 

sel, let it cool, and remove all the grease. This 
will keep for a week in cool weather. If a very 
white stock is desired, veal can be used instead 
of beef. If not clear, beat an e-- slightly, 
shell and all, put into the stock, let come to a 
boil Miid skim. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

CLEAR SOUP. 

One pint of stock to one pint of water, a, 
few drops of onion juice, and salt-spoonful of 
celery salt. Take one-half inch slices of stale 
bread, cut in one-half inch dice, dip in beaten 
egg 1 , roll in a mixture of one tables] uxmful of 
finely chopped parsley, one-half tablespoonful 
-chopped onion, one tablespoonful grated 
cheese, a pinch of salt and a dash of cayenne; 
saute in a tablespoonful of butter until a, 
.golden brown. Lay on brown paper for a 
minute then drop in the sou]). 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

GREEN SOUP. 

Boil till very tender a bunch of spinach in 
water to cover. Strain through a, sieve, and 
to this liquid add water to make one pint, to 
which add a pint of stock. Flavor with onion, 
cayenne, and salt, or celery salt. Add crou- 
tons of tried bread and serve hot. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

RICE TOMATO. 

Boil together one quart tomatoes, one 
quart water and two tablespoonfuls of rice 
until the rice is cooked. Strain through a 
sieve. Put equal parts of tomato and soup 
;tock, a pinch of oda, one tablespoonful of 



20 SOUPS 

butter, salt and pepper to taste. Boil ten 
minutes and serve. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

BOUILLON. 

Equal parts of stock and water., a little 
onion juice, a dash of cayenne, salt to taste, 
and serve. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

BOUILLON. 

Three pounds of round of beef and a tew 
bones in two quarts of cold water, and an even 
teaspoonfnl of salt. Let come to a boil, skim 
well, and simmer three hours; then add two 
sliced carrots, two turnips, one small Chili 
pepper, a whole' onion stuck with three whole 
cloves, one small head of cauliflower, one pint 
of peas, (canned will do). and simmer together 
for one hour. Strain the sou]), pulping the 
vegetables, return to the fire, and when it comes 
to boiling point add noodles, boiled rice, or 
soaked German sago. 

MRS. JAMES ('. MENOR. 

NOODLE OR VERMICELLI SOUP. 

A medium sized souj) bone put on with a 
little salt and sufficient cold water To cover it. 
When partly done add a small carrot cut in 
slices, a piece of onion and a little parsley. 
Boil until well done, then strain immediately 
and let it stand oversight. When wanted for 
use remove the crust of grease, put in a little 
noodle or vermicelli, add pepper to taste, heat 
to the boiling* point and serve immediately. 

Miss PERRY. Monterey. 

cno ur/m "Ai/r" TAKE KROUQH'S HEAD. 
rUn HtAU AlVt ACHE POWDERS 



SOUPS 21 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Take the oysters with their liquor, (a little 
water may added to the liquor), one table- 
spoonful of butter, a dash of cayenne pepper, or 
white pepper, and salt to taste. Put into gran- 
ite pan and cover; remove as soon as it boils. 
A tablespoonful of sweet cream put into soup 
plates before the soup is served improves it 
greatly. Milk or crearn should never be cooked 
with the sou]). If milk is desired, heat it in a 
separate pan and add it only when ready to 
serve. MRS. JAMES C. MENOR. 

MOCK OYSTER SOUP. 

One-half can of tomatoes put into a gran- 
ite iron vessel, and when it boils add an even 
half teaspoonful of soda; then add about one 
quart of milk and let come to a boil. Add a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut and two 
pounded crackers: season with salt and pep- 
per. Enough for six persons. 

MRS. E. M. 



CLAM SOUP. 

One large can of good clams. Boil the li- 
quor. make a little drawn butter and mix with 
liquor; stir till it boils. Chop up clams and put 
them in; season to taste with salt, a dash of 
cayenne pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice and a 
grate of nutmeg. Boil over a slow fire one 
hour. Have ready a cupful of hot sweet cream 
and add it to the soup when ready to serve; 
not before. MRS. JAMES C. MENOR. 

GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 
Take off shell, head and nippers and let 



22 SOU^S 

hang over night to drain off blood. Cook the 
neck and flippers in boiling water one minute so 
that the scales can be scraped off. Take three 
pounds shin beef, a few carrots, one onion, 
whole peppers and cloves, thyme, leeks, celery 
and parsley to taste. Cook in boiling water 
one hour. Cut turtle in small pieces, leaving 
liquid to cook with the bones and vegetables, 
adding two Ounces of butter and three table- 
spoonfuls of flour to thicken soup. Simmer 
while cooking, ("to boil is to spoil"), and cook 
until it has lost its strong smell; then put in 
the meat, (cut turtle and shin beef), season 
with a dash of cayenne pepper and one table- 
spoonful of sherry. Serve immediately after 
the sherry is added. 

MRS. JAMES C. MENOR. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Cut up one full-grown chicken; put it in 
three quarts of cold water and boil. In a sep- 
arate dish cook one spoonful of rice. When 
tlip chicken is well done, remove the meat and 
bones, skim off all the fat, add the cooked rice, 
one spoonful of flour mixed smoothly in a lit- 
tle milk, one rolled cracker, one-half cupful of 
ream, one teaspoonful of butter, and salt and 
pepper to taste. 

MRS. W. V. MCGARVEY. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Fry partly four slices of fat ham in a ket- 
tle. Add one chicken cut up in pieces and fry 
five minutes. Add four quarts of water, boil 
two hours. Remove bones from soup, add 
four dozen green okra pods or one cup of dried 

<3o to Krough's Drug Store for your fine Perfumes 



SOUPS 23 

okra, six tomatoes, or one-half can, two chop- 
ped onions, one sprig of chopped parsley, 
thyme, one Chili/ pepper and salt. Boil one 
and one-half hours. Add two tablespoon- 
mis of butter and one boiled crab picked fine, 
or twelve oysters, and serve. 

MRS. J. R. Dixox. 'Stockton. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Tut in slices the following vegetables. 
Onions, carrots and celery: a cupful of each. 
Saute in butter until a nice brown, stirring 
that they may cook evenly. Put into the 
sou]) kettle, the vegetables, a quart of stock 
and a quart of hot water, and boil gently one 
hour. Fifteen minutes before serving add a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, a teacupful of 
green peas, previously boiled and rubbed 
through a sieve, salt and whitepepperto taste. 

MRS. E. ST. JOHN. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

8 carrots. 

4 onions. 

4 potatoes. 

1 pt. of cabbage. . 

Chop all fine; put on to stew in just 
enough water to cover. When the vegetables 
are tender, cover them with boiling water and 
set on back of stove to simmer for twenty 
minutes. Rub a little flour into a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, stir in two eggs and add one 
pint of milk. Mix thoroughly and stir -into 
the sou]). Boil for a few moments. 

Mrs. M. R. MEKRITT. 

Take your PRESCRIPTIONS to KROUQH 

DRUGQIST, SALINAS 



24 SOUPS 

AMBER SOUP. 

A two-pound bone, one-half chicken, one 
slice of ham, carrot, parsnip, parsley, bay leaf. 
celery, onion; simmer four hours; season. Add 
caramel, one-half glass of sherry, if liked. 
and strain through a napkin. 

MRS. A. C. BAHKKH. 

SOUP. 

Three quarts of water to three pounds of 
beef and bone. Boil about two hours and 
skim. Put in carrots, celery, turnips, three 
cloves, tomato, parsley, salt and pepper, and 
one large onion. Boil two hours longer. 
Strain and boil with either rice, maccaroni, or 
vermicelli for three quarters of an hour. 

MRS. W. H. Pvm H\. 

BEAN SOUP. 

One quart of colored beans and one table 
poo Jnful of baking- soda with water enough to 
boil. When the beans are cooked so the skins 
will slip off when pinched, pour into a large 
pan and rub with the hands in cold water un- 
til the skins ere all removed. Cover well with 
water and add one-half pound of salt pork 
cut in small pieces. Season with pepper and 
salt. MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

PUREE OF PEAS. 

1 pt. of shelled peas, 
' 3 pts. of boiling water, 
% small onion, 
3 cupful s of milk, 
1 tablespoonful of butter, 
1 tablespoonful of flour, 



SOUPS 25 

2'tabl( r.poonfuls of salt, 
% tea spoonful of white pepper. 
Shell and wash the peas; put them with 
the onion into the water. Cook uncovered un- 
til the peas are soft; then rub them through 
a sieve; put into a saucepan and add milk and 
seasoning. Rub the flour into the melted but- 
ter and cook until it froths; then stir into 
boiling soup and cook a few minutes. 

MRS. B. L. HOLLENBECK, Pacific Grove. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

1 qt. tomatoes, 

1 qt. hot water, 

1 pt. sweet milk, 

1 tables] )oonful of flour, 

Butter size of an egg. 

Cook tomatoes with water and onion for 
one hour; then add butter and flour mixed 
well together; season. Just before serving 
put in milk well scalded. 

MRS. J. B. PORTER. 

CREAM TOMATO SOUP. 

One pound of lean beef in three pints 01 
cold water, one-half teaspoonful of salt; let it 
come to boiling point, (skini often), set on the 
back of the stove and simmer slowly for two 
hours. Add ten ripe tomatoes, (or one can), 
stew the whole one and one-half hours, then 
pass through sieve into pot again; boil ten 
minutes, thicken with a generous tablespoonful 
of butter into which has been stirred the same 
amount of sifted flour. A dash of cayenne 
pepper improves it. When ready to serve 
turn a cupful of hot sweet cream into the 
whole. This is a most delicious soup and will 



26 SOUPS 

serve ten people. MRS. JAMES C. MENOR. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Cut the tender tips from asparagus in bits 
one-half inch long; boil tender. Put the rest 
in three pints of water and one cupful of stock, 
and boil one-half hour. Press through colan- 
der, add one tablespoonful of butter and 
one tablespoonful of flour, rubbed together; 
season; add one cupful of milk and the tips. 
If desired pour over square bits of toast. 

MRS. J. R. DIXON, Stockton. 

CREAM CELERY SOUP. 

1 shank of beef, 

1 large bunch of celery, 

1 cupful of cream. 

Make good broth of the beef shank and 
thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour rub- 
bed smooth in one-half cupful of water. Cut 
the celery in small pieces, and boil in the soup 
until tender and rub through a sieve. Season 
with salt and pepper. Strain the soup and 
add the cream just before serving. 

Mrs. U. HARTNELL. 

(Miss Whittaker's Cooking School, Pacific Grove.) 

CREAM OF SAGO SOUP (WHITE STOCK.) 

2 or 3 Ibs. veal bone, 
2 qts. of water. 

Break up the bone; put it into a saucepan 
and add the water. Bring it very slowly to 
the boil and take off the scum until clear. 
Put the pan on a cooler part of the stove and 
let the stock simmer for six hours, then strain, 
and when cold remove all fat. 



SOUPS 27 

"2 qts. of this white stock, 

1 pt. of milk, 
Yolks of four eggs, 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 

4 tablespoonfuls of sago, 

% saltspoonl'ul of pepper, 
Let the stock come to a boil, then scatter 
in the sago and stir for two or three minutes. 
Cook until each grain is clear; add pepper and 
alt. Cream the yolks with the milk, add to 
the soup, then place on cooler part of the 
stove; let the sou]) cook three minutes, stir- 
ring all the time. MRS. U. HARTNELL. 

(Mias Whittuker'a Cooking Buhoo], Pacific Grove). 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP. 

Remove the corn from one can, cover with 
three cupfuls of water and simmer for one 
hour. Strain, press through a sieve. Scald 
three cupfuls of milk, add the corn and one 
tablespoonful of butter rubbed smooth with 
one tablespoonful of flour. Mix until smooth; 
season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of 
celery extract. Add one-half cupful of cream 
and stir until heated. Take from the fire, add 
the beaten yolk of an egg and serve at once. 
The egg or cream may be omitted, but the 
soup is far more delicious with the addition of 
both. The corn from twelve ears equals one 
can. MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Two pounds white fish, (sturgeon prefer- 
red), removed from bones and skin, and cut in 
squares. 

4 large potatoes, sliced, 



28 SOUPS 

1 onion cut in small pieces, 
Y 2 cupful of butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
Put this to simmer with two cupful s of 
boiling- water. When ingredients are tender. 
add one quart of milk mid eight or ten fine 
crackers. When thoroughly hot. serve. 

MRS. G. B. RICHMOND . 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Wash one dozen clams, slice an onion; slice 
two large potatoes: two thin slices of salt 
pork cut in small squares, and one quart of 
milk. Fry pork until brown, put in onions 
and potatoes, add four grated crackers, salt 
and pepper, and one half of a red pepper chop- 
ped fine. Boil all in milk. When boiled twen- 
ty minutes add clams and boil a few minutes 
longer. MKS. W. H. PYBUKX. 

NANTUCKET ( 'H< ) WDER. 

Cut into very small pieces five or six slices 
of salt pork, (medium size slices); fry them 
quite brown; chop two or three onions fine; 
put them in after the pork is brown and fry 
till tender; pour hot water into pot, (about 
two and a half quarts), and three pounds of 
fish, (rock cod). Let it boil about twenty 
minutes; season with salt and pepper; make 
a little thickening of flour and milk and add 
while boiling. Some like sliced potatoes, but 
real Nantukcet chowder has neither potatoes 
nor crackers. MRS. M. McHARRY. 

rno urin "ii/r" TAKE KROUQH'S HEAD. 
run ntAU AlVt ACME POWDERS 



For the Siek 



BEEF ESSENCE. Put one pound of lean 
beef minced fine, into a jar, without any water 
whatever, cover the jar tightly and set in a pot 
or kettle of cold water, bringing: the water 
slowly to a boil and allowing the jar contain- 
ing meat to so remain simmering until the 
juice of the meat is all extracted and the fibre 
becomes colorless. Sea.son to taste and skim 
when cold. 

BARLEY WATER, Put two ounces of 
pearl barley into half a pint of boiling water 
and let it simmer a few minutes. Drain, and 
add two quarts of boiling water with a few 
figs and stoned raisins cut fine. Boil slowly 
until reduced about one-half and strain. 
Sweeten to taste, a,dding the juice of a lemon 
and nutmeg if desired. 

TOAST WATER. Toast nicely, but do 
not burn the slices of bread, and pour upon 
them sufficient boiling water to cover. Let 
them steep until cold, keeping the bowl or dish 
containing the toast closely covered. Strain 
off the water and sweeten to taste, putting 
a piece of ice into it as drank. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. Pour one 
quart of boiling water on four tablespoonfuls 
of whole flaxseed and add the juice of two 
lemons. Let it steep three hours, keeping it 



30 SOUPS 

closely covered. Sweeten to taste. Excellent 
for colds. 

MULLED BUTTER-MILK. The well 
beaten yolk of one egg added to boiling but- 
ter-milk and allowed to boil up; or add to the 
boiling butter-milk a little thickening of flour 
and cold butter-milk. 

BAKED MILK. Put the milk into a jar, 
covering the opening with white paper and 
bake in a moderate oven until as thick as 
<cream. MRS. C. A. HUDSON. 

PLAIN CHICKEN BROTH. 

Cut a nice fat hen into four parts, wash 
well in (-old water and put the pieces into a 
stewpan with one quart of water and a very 
little salt. When it comes to a boil, skim well, 
and a,dd one carrot and a little celery. Boil 
for about two hours, then strain through a 
napkin or a fine sieve. F. W. SCHROEDER. 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut in dice a large thick round steak, using 
only the lean. Put in double boiler with a 
quart of cold water, adding salt to taste; 
cook three or four hours, then strain carefully 
through hair sieve; heat as needed. Beef and 
mutton, or veal, in equal quantities, cooked 
as above make a tasty and nourishing broth. 

MRS, G. B. RICHMOND. 



Fish 



"Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea!" 
" Why, as men do a land ; the great ones eat up the little onen." 
J^ PERICLES. 

A fish to be in good condition to eat 
should have brig'ht red gills, the eyes clear and 
full, and a firm, stiff body. They should be 
drawn, thoroughly cleaned and washed in cold 
water, immediately on coining from market. 
If not to be cooked at once, they should be 
placed on ice or sprinkled with salt on the 
inside and put in n cool place until wanted. 

The favorite way of cooking fish is either 
to bake, boil, fry, or broil them. All small 
fish are better broiled, or fried. 

To bake a fish, soften a little butter, rub 
over the fish, sprinkle with salt, place on a 
wire stand in a dripping pan and bake in a 
quick oven, allowing about twenty minutes to 
a pound. Dredge with flour when it begins to 
brown and baste with butter. 

To boil a fish, roll in a thin cloth, put in a 
fish kettle with boiling water to cover and 
boil very 'gently; twenty minutes to the 
pound for salmon or halibut, and fifteen min- 
utes for cod or other delicate fish. Fish is 
very nice steamed instead of boiled. Rub well 
with salt before putting into steamer. All 
boiled or steamed fish should be served 
with drawn butter, with or without the addi- 



32 SOUPS 

tion of boiled eggs, or any nice white sauce. 

To fry fish, wipe dry, cut, if large, into con- 
venient pieces dip into sifted corn meal, rolled 
crackers, grated stale bread, or wheat flour, 
and fry in clarified butter or olive oil. If, be- 
fore frying fish, you allow them to lie about 
fifteen minutes in milk they will be a lighter 
color when cooked. 

To broil fish, sprinkle with pepper and 
salt and lay with the inside down upon the 
gridiron and broil over glowing coals. Win MI 
nice and brown turn and cook for a few min- 
utes. Place on warm platter a-nd spread with 
butter. 

BAKED MACKEREL. 

Take medium sized fish and have the fish- 
man split open and remove the back bone. 
Cleanse well and sprinkle with salt. Pla<-<> a 
few pieces of bacon on the bottom of dripping- 
pan on which place the split fish opened and 
cover with a dressing made as follows: 

About half of the inside of a small loaf of 
bread chopped fine with half an onion: salt 
and pepper to taste; thyme and parsley; 
moisten with melted butter; spread over fish 
and bake about half an hour. 

Mils. CLARA L.HOUGHTON, Pacific drove. 

BAKED ROCK COD. 

Clean and wipe dry; salt and pepper, and 
rub butter over the inside; fill with following 
dressing: Light bread crumbs moistened with 
milk; salt, pepper, sage and butter, also a lit- 
tle onion chopped fine. Dry this out in a fry- 
ing pan to prevent sogginess. Fill the fish 
and wrap a cord loosely around it; place 



FISH 33 

three or four thin slices of bacon on top, fill 
the baking- pan one-half full of sweet milk and 
bake slowly. MRS. VV. J. HILL. 

BAKED SALMON AND POTATOES. 

Put a layer of mashedpotatoes in baking 
dish, then one of cooked fish; grate over the 
top crackers enough to cover, and pour over a 
sauce made of the juice of one can of tomatoes, 
chopped parsley, a little onion or garlic, one 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, pepper 
and salt to taste. When entirely absorbed, 
cover the top with small pieces of butter, and 
cream. Hake in hot oven twenty minutes 
and serve. Garnish dish with limes and par- 
sley.' MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Clean, wash, and wipe dry. Split so that 
when laid fiat the back bone will be in the mid- 
dle! Sprinkle with salt and lay inside down 
upon a buttered gridiron over a. clear fire un- 
til it is nicely colored; then turn. When done 
put upon a hot dish; butter plentifully and 
pepper. Put a hot cover over it and send to 
table. Each guest should be served with a 
small piece of lemon or lime. 

MRS. jAMEsC. MENOII. 



TENDERLOIN OF SOLE.. 

Take halibut; slice, (not too thick), dip in- 
rolled or pounded cracker crumbs and fry un- 
til fish is well cooked through and is nicely 
browned. Serve very hot with tartare sauce. 

MRS. -- , 



34 FISH 

FILLET OF SOLE. 

Choose two flounders weighing 1 about 
three pounds. Lay them on the table with 
the dark side uppermost; with a sharp, thin 
bladed knife cut down the back bone, follow- 
ing the dark line in the middle of the fish; then 
turn the edge of the knife outward and cut to- 
wards the tins, keeping the blade flat against 
the bone, and removing one-fourth of the flesh 
in a single piece. Proceed in the same way un- 
til you have eight fillets, ( this can be done at 
the fish market). Carefully cut the skin from 
them, season with salt and pepper: lay them 
on a buttered dish suitable to send to the ta- 
ble; sprinkle thickly with sifted cracker 
crumbs and a little grated Parmesan or other 
rich cheese: put a few bits of butter over them, 
using not more than one ounce, two table- 
spoonfuls in all, and brown them in a quick 
oven. Serve them as soon as they are nicely 
browned. This is a savorv and delicate dish 



requiring some practice to do nicely. 

Miss PERRY, Monterey.. 

SALMON ROLL. 

1 Ib. can of salmon, 

l / 2 cupful of milk, 

% cupful of fine bread crumbs, 

4 beaten eggs, 

1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 

1 tablespoonful of onion juice. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

1 small teaspoonful of salt. 

% teaspoonful of pepper, 

% teaspoonful of mace. 



FISH 35 

Drain oft' the juice from the salmon, break 
up fine, mix all together; put in a mould, 
steam three hours and serve with following 1 
sauce: 

SAUCE A sprig of parsley and a little mace 
boiled in one-half pint of milk, remove from 
the fire. Cream together one tablespoonful 
each of butter and flour, add to the milk and 
let boil up. If wished extra nice add beaten 
po-o- just before serving. Serve sauce in pitcher, 
and add to fish when served. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

TO BOIL FRESH COD. 

Sew up the fish, or piece, in a thin cloth 
fitted to shape. Boil in salted water (boiling 
from the first). Allow fifteen minutes to the 
pound. Carefully unwrap and pour over it a 
drawn butter sauce, or any sauce preferred. 
MRS. JAMES C. MKXOR. 

BAKED FISH. 

Take either rock cod, salmon, or flounder. 
Place in baking pan whole; salt and pepper 
well. Use an onion and a tomato sliced, chop- 
ped parsley, spices to taste, a good slice of 
butter, -a tablespoonful of vinegar and half a 
cupful of white wine or -water. Sprinkle with 
cracker crumbs and bake in quick oven one- 
half an hour, basting occasionally. 

MRS. W. H. PYBURN. 

BAKED ROCK COD. 

For a fish weighing about two pounds, 
chop one onion and a little parsley very fine; 
mix with one cupful of bread crumbs, made 



36 FISH 

very fine, and half a cupful of olive oil. Spread 
this mixture on the bottom of the pan and 
over the fish after putting it in the pan. Salt 
and pepper to taste; then pour a cupful of 
broth over all and bake in a quick oven, bast- 
ing frequently. When done, dish the fish, add 
a little water, one spoonful of Worcestershire 
orBangipore sauce, to the gravy, stir well, boil 
one moment and pour over the fish before 
serving. MRS. M. McQuAin. 

BAKED SALMON. 

Spread chopped onion, parsley and fine 
bread crumbs aver the top of the fish; moisten 
with a little water to which a spoonful of 
vinegar has been added, and bake till tender. 
Make a sauce of half a cupful of milk, a table- 
:spoonful of flour and one ounce of butter. 
When thoroughly cooked, add hard boiled egg 
chopped fine and one tablespoonful of tomato 
catsup. Serve in a sauce boat. 

MRS. M. McQuAin. 

SOLE OK FLOUNDER FRIED. 

Bone and slice the fish; dredge with flour 
and fry alight brown in olive oil and drippings 
mixed. Have the oil hot so as to brown the 
fish quickly. Serve with Tart are sauce. 

'MRS. M. MrQuAii). 

FLANKED FISH. 

A fish may be planked in an ordinary coal 
stove not so well, of course, as under the gas 
or before a wood fire> but it will be much better 
than when broiled or fried. Select a board 



STUFFINGS FOR FISH 37 

that will hold a "-nod-sized fish and will fit 
your oven. It should be of oak, hickory or 
ash; hickory is the best. Put the board in 
the oven until it is very hot. Have the fish 
split and place it on the board, skin side down; 
brush with butter% dust with salt and pepper. 
Then put it into the oven, watching and bast- 
ing it with melted butter until it is a, golden 
brown. Garnish the edge with potato puff 
pressed through a star tube or from a pastry- 
bag. Put back in the oven for just a tew 
moments. When the potatoes are brown gar- 
nish the fish with lemon and serve upon the 
board. MRS. A. LLOYD. 



Stuffings for pish 



BREAD STUFFING. 

Soak half a pound of bread crumbs in wat- 
er; when the bread is soft press out all the 
water. Fry two tablespoonfuls of minced 
onion in some butter. Add the bread, some 
chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of chopped 
suet, and pepper and salt. Let it cook a mo- 
ment; take it oft' the fire arid add an egg, 

MEAT STUFFING. 

This stuffing is best made with veal and 
almost an equal quantity of bacon chopped 
fine. Put in a quarter of its volume of white 
softened bread crumbs pressed out well; add a 
little chopped onion, parsley, or mushrooms; 
season highly. If the fish should be baked 



38 FISH SAUCES 

with wine this dressing can be used, viz: 

Soak about three slices of bread. When 
the water is well pressed out, season it with 
salt, a little cayenne, a little mace, and mois- 
ten it with port wine or sherry; add the juice 
and grated rind of half a lemon. 



pish Sauces 



DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Ingredients: Three tablespoonluls of but- 
ter, one tablespoonful of flour, half a pint of 
water, (or better, white stock), and a pinch of 
salt and pepper. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of the butter into 
a stew-pan and when it bubbles sprinkle in the 
flour: stir it well with a wire egg-whisk until 
the flour is thoroughly cooked without taking 
color, and then mix in well the half pint of 
water, or stock. Take it off the fire, pass it 
through a sieve or gravy-strainer, and stir in 
the other tablespoonful of butter cut in pieces. 
When properly mixed and melted it is ready 
for use. This makes a pint of sauce. 

Some persons like drawn butter sauce 
slightly acid, in which case add a few drops of 
vinegar or lemon juice just before serving. 

PICKLE SAUCE. 

Make a drawn butter sauce; just before 
serving add two or three tablespoonfuls pick- 
led cucumbers, chopped or minced very fine. 



FISH SAUCES 39 

BOILED EGG SAUCE. 

Add to half a pint of drawn butter sauce 
three hard-boiled eggs not chopped too fine. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Make a drawn-butter sauce, or say melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in a sauce-pan; 
add a tablespoonful 01 flour; when the two 
are well mixed add pepper and salt, and a lit- 
tle less than a pint of boiling water. Stir the 
sauce on the fire until it thickens, then add 
three tablespoonfuls of French capers. Remo- 
ving the sauce-pan from the fire, stir into the 
smice the yolk of an egg beaten with the juice 
of half a lemon. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Add to half a pint of drawn butter sauce 
two teaspoonfuls of anchovy extract, or an- 
chovy paste. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Make a drawn butter or white sauce; add 
a few drops of lemon, or a tablespoonful of 
capers; or if neither be at hand, a few drops of 
vinegar; add oysters strained from their li- 
quor and let them just come to a boil in the 
sauce. 

This sauce is much better made with part 
cream, i. e., used when making the drawn but- 
ter sauce, instead of all water. In this case do 
not add the lemon juice or vinegar. Some 
make the white sauce of the oyster liquor in- 
stead of water. 

This sauce may be served in- a sauce-boat, 



40 FISH SAUCES 

but it is nicer to pour it over the fish, boiled 
chicken or turkey. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. (FOR BOILED FISH). 

To half a pint of hot drawn butter sauce 
add two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley. 

HOLLA XI) ATSE SAUCE. 

(For boiled fish, asparagus or canliflower). 

Put a piece of butter the size of a pigeon 
egg into a sauce-pan, and when it bubbles stir 
in with an egg- whisk an even tablespoonful of 
flour; let it continue to bubble until the flour- 
is thoroughly cooked, when stir in half a pint 
of boiling water, or, better of veal stock; when 
it boils take it from the fire and stir into it 
gradually the beaten yolks of four eggs; return 
the sauce to the fire for a minute to set tin- 
eggs without allowing it to boil; again remove 
the sauce, stir in the juice of half a small 
lemon, and fresh butter the size of a walnut, 
cut into small pieces to facilitate its melting, 
and stir all well with the whisk. 

SAUCE TARTARE. (COLD SAUCE). 

( For fried fish ). To a scant half pint of 
Mayonnaise dressing, (made with the mustard 
added), mix in two tablespoonfuls of capers, 
one small shallot, (quarter of a rather small 
onion, a poor substitute), two gherkins, or two 
tablespoonfuls of cucumber pickle, and one 
tablespoonful of parsley; all chopped very fine. 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

To the yolk of one egg (raw) add 'a pinch 
of dry mustard, mix well, add half a gill of 



FISH SAUCES 41 

olive oil, drop by drop, stirring continuously. 
When .stiff, add the juice of half a lemon, a 
little salt, a few drops of Tobasco sauce, and 
one tablespoonful of chopped chives, or young 
green onion. 

MRS. M. McQuAiD. 

FISH SAUCE. 

Butter size of an egg. two tablespoonfuls 
of tomato catsup, one tea spoonful French 
mustard. Put butter in a pan and melt; add 
cntsup; boil up once and serve. Enough for 
four people. MRS. FRY. 



H. H. rtASON 



DEALER IN 



Books, Stationery 
Fancy Goods 
And Novelties 

Magazines Daily and Weekly 

Papers 

A complete line of 

EASTMAN KODAKS 

AND SUPPLIES Always on hand - 

MASON'S BAZAAR 

ABBOTT BLOCK SALINAS, CAL. 



Entrees, Breakfast $ Imneh- 
eon Dishes 



"Cheerful looks make every dish a fea*t." MASSINGER. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Boil a fowl until the meat will slip from 
the bones, and the water is reduced in boiling 
to about one pint. Pick the meat from the 
bones in small pieces, taking out all the bones, 
gristle and fat, and place the meat in a wet 
mould. Skim the fat from the liquor, add a 
piece of butter the sizes of a walnut, pepper 
and salt, and one-half box of gelatine. 
When this dissolves pour hot over the chicken 
and set in a cold place until the next day, 
when it should be cut in slices with a very 
sharp knife. The liquor must be highly sea- 
soned as it is absorbed by the chicken. 

Mrs. A. W. ANDERSON, Pacific Grove. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Boil a chicken in a little water until it will 
come from the bones. Pick it into small pieces 
with a fork. Boil three or four eggs twenty 
minutes and slice. Season highly the liquor in 
which the chicken was boiled, (about a cupful), 
and add one tablespoonful of gelatine. Place 
in the bottom of the mould two or three slices 
of egg, then the chicken and so on till all is, 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 43 

used. Pour over all the liquor. Must be made 
the day before using. 

MRS. F. MAY, Soquel. 

CHICKEN TURNOVERS. 

.Chop .some cold chicken and prepare the 
same as ehitkan hash. When cooled, roll out 
some rfch pic crust thin; cut in rounds as large 
as a saucer, wet the edge "with cold water, and 
put a large spoonful of the minced meat in 
one-half of the pie crust; fold the other half 
over, and pinch the edges well together; then 
fry them in hot drippings or fat, a nice brown. 
(They can also be baked in the o*ven). Serve 
with any kind of good sauce. 

CHEF OF OCCIDENTAL HOTEL, S. F. 

( ;H ICK EN CROQUETTES. 

Two tablespoonfnls of butter and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour; put in a saucepan 
with a little onion juice, and stir until as thick 
as mush, then add a cupful of sweet cream, 
pinch of salt, a little cayenne, grate or two of 
nutmeg and a little sweet Bazil. Place over 
tbe fire for a few minutes; stir in three-fourth 
pound of chicken, or veal, minced to a fine 
paste. Warm thoroughly; when cold mould 
into shape, dip in egg and cracker crumbs and 
fry in hot lard. MRS. L. deV. BULLENE. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

Cut into dice a quart of cooked chicken. 
Allow three hard boiled eggs, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of ground mace, one small table- 
spoonful of flour, one gill of sherry, one 



44 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

fourth pound of butter, one-half cupful of 
cream, one-eighth teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
salt and cayenne to taste. Hub flour aud but- 
ter together, put in a small sauce-pan, add 
cream and seasoning, stand over a moderate 
fire till heated; add whites of eggs chopped 
and yolks stirred with cream; stir till it 
reaches boiling point only. Use more or less 
sherry and serve at -once. Calf's liver boiled 
fifteen minutes may be served in the same 
way. MRS. J. B. BEXXETT. 

STEWED TERRAPIN SP*]CIAL 

Carefully cut up two cooked terrapins 
without breaking the gall-bag and don't use 
the entrails. Place them in a sauce-pan with 
half a, wineglass of good sherry wine, a one- 
half gill of brandy, half a pinch of salt, a little 
cayenne pepper and let it cook for five min- 
utes. Mix and strain through a fine sieve the 
yolks of four eggs, five ounces of good butter, 
to this add one-half pint of rich cream sauce, 
mix well; put over terrapin, heat well without 
boiling. Put in a hot tureen, and serve very 
hot. MR. HEXRY BECKER. 

Chef of University Club, S. F. 

TERRAPIN STEW. 

Boil four large terrapins until they are 
done sufficiently to take off the shells easily; 
open and pick the meat, etc., from the shells 
with great care. In taking out the liver be 
very careful not to break the gall bladder; it 

Take your PRESCRIPTIONS to KROUGH 

DRU<3<3IST% SALINAS 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 45 

must be separated and thrown away, as it em- 
bitters and spoils the dish. Stew the meat, 
etc., thus separated in a quarter of a pound 
of butter, half a pint of claret and half a 
pint of Madeira wine. Season with cayenne 
pepper) not black pepper), powdered mace, 
nutmeg, sweet marjoram and parsely chopped 
fine; then mid some mushroom catsup to 
taste while the whole is very hot. 

MRS. H. W. SEALE. 

MOCK TERRAPIN STEW. 

Take a calf's head, boil it, and pick into 
small pieces, using the brains and all the 
meat. Take 

1 doz. hard boiled e-gs. 

1% Ibs. butter, 

1 qt. of sherry, 

1 wine glass of brandy, 

1% pts. of sweet cream, 

1 teaspoonful of mace, 

1 teaspoonful of summer savory, 

Cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 

Rub half the butter to a cream; mash 
yolks of nine eggs and add to the butter; add 
spices and put all on the stove to cook. When 
it boils pour in the cream, then add brandy 
and wine. As soon as this boils add remain- 
der of butter well rubbed up with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and while it is boiling put 
in the calf's head, and the whites of the eggs 
and three yolks chopped fine. It improves by 
keeping a few days and warming over when 
wanted for use. Chicken can also be used to 
make the stew. MRS. H. W. SEALE. 



46 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

DEVILED CRAB. 

Boil, pick and chop two or three crabs, 
then mix the dressing well through the meat. 
Fill shells lightly; add two or three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter to each, (also cream 
if possible). Bake a delicate brown, and serve 
hot on garnished dish. 

Dressing. One hard boiled egg; rub the 
yolk in one tablespoonful of melted butter 
add to this one and one-half tablespoonfuls of 
.vinegar, and cayenne, mustard, pepper and 
salt to taste. Then stir in the yolk of a well 
beaten egg, and add the white, having first 
beaten it separately; then add the chopped 
white of the first mentioned egg. 

MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

DEVILED CRAB. 

Pick meat from one crab into shreds. Roll 
one cracker; beat one egg; mix all together 
with butter size of an egg. Salt and pepper 
and milk to make moist. Fill crab shells and 
bake a delicate brown. 

MRS. J. B. POIITEK. 

CRAB A LA NEWBURG. 

% Ib. butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

Yolks of 4 eggs boiled and mashed, 

l / 2 ^teaspoonful salt, 

Dash cavenne, 

, / 

1 pt. boiling milk. 

Put all in a dish and cook a few minutes; 
add a crab or white meat of a lobster, the 
whites of .the eggs chopped. When ready t6 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 47 

serve add a glass of sherry or Madeira wine. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

CREOLE OF CRAB. 

Four green peppers, six STUM 11 onions, 
(green). Chop fine; add a piece of butter size 
of an egg and salt and pepper to taste. Boil 
ten minutes then add one-half can of tomatoes 
and boil until all is well dissolved. Add one- 
half pint of creain mixed with a tablespoonful 
of flour, and le^f)oif Pour in two well picked 
crabs and serve on toast. 

MKS. (I. B. RICHMOND. 

CREAMED SHRIMPS. 

((."haling Di^h Recipe). 

Melt two tables] )oonf uls of butter, fry in it 
till brown two tablespoonfuls of onion cut 
fine; strain out the onion and add to the but- 
ter two tablespoonfuls of flour; cook till 
brown. Heat one pint of strained tomatoes, 
add one-fourth teas] )oonful of soda; add this 
to the browned flour, bring to a boil, add one- 
half ten spoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful pep- 
per, dash of cayenne, the beaten yolks of two 
eggs, one cupful cream, one small glass cooking- 
sherry, and one can or one pint shrimps brok- 
en. When boiling hot pour over slices of 
toast. Will serve six persons. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

CREAMED CRABS OR SHRIMPS. 

One large picked crab, or one pint of 
shrimps, one cupful of cream, one-half cupful 

\Qo to Krough's Drug Store for your fine Perfumes 



48 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

of milk, one heaping tablespooiiful of flour, ' 
one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespooiiful of 
butter, one cracker, one teaspoonful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, and a dash of cayenne. Put 
crab or shrimps into cream and heat; mix 
milk and flour and add to hot cream with 
other ingredients. Put into six shells, dust 
rolled cracker over and put a little butter in 
each center. Bake brown. Instead of baking 
in shells serve on toast if preferred. 

MES. J. F. BIELEM, S. F. 

CAMAPES LOKENZO. 

Fry colorless two ounces of onions, (about 
two heaping tablespoonfuls) cut in one-eighth 
inch squares, and when done add one table- 
spoonful of flour; let this cook about ten min- 
utes without browning, then moisten with a 
pint of fresh cream; season with salt, cayenne 
pepper and a small amount of nutmeg and re- 
duce to consistency of a well thickened sauce. 
Now throw in a pan one pound of crab meat 
that has been fried in butter over a brisk fire, 
letting the sauce and crab come to a boil; set 
aw r ay to cool. Cut slices of bread one-fourth 
inch thick; from it cut round pieces four inches 
in diameter, using a cutter for this purpose; 
divide them straight through center to make 
two even sized pieces; toast on one side only; 
cover this side w r ith a tablespoonful of 
crab preparation, for each half round, 
and lay the following preparation on top. 
With the hands work in a tin ba- 
sin one-half pound of butter, add to it 
one-half pound grated Eastern cheese, cayenne 
and white pepper, and one drop of Tobasco, 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 49 

and knead together to form a thick paste. 
Cover the entire camapi with a layer of this 
butter and cheese and set on buttered baking 
tins in hot oven till well browned. Serve as 
quickly as possible. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

TURBOT. 

Chop fine one large onion, put in a stew 
pan or double boiler and cook with a little 
water till soft. Measure a pint of milk, reserv- 
ing a half cupful, add the remainder to the 
cooked onion. When this is scalding hot, add 
the following, well mixed with the half cup of 
milk: One egg, one large tablespoonful of but- 
ter, two tabiespoonfuls of flour, salt and pep- 
per; let this boil. Pick fine about one pint of 
fish, put this in the bottom of a baking dish, 
then a layer of dressing, another of fish and 
on the dressing, lastly, a thick layer of bread 
crumbs, and bits of butter. Bake twenty min- 
utes. Some prefer a thin layer of crumbs over 
each dressing, and some like grated cheese 
with the crumbs. MRS. E. F. HAWKINS, 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

Put one tablespoonful butter in a sauce- 
pan and place on the stove; when melted, add 
one tablespoonful chopped onion. Cook five 
minutes but do not brown, add heaping table- 
spoonful flour and stir three minutes; add one 
cupful water and cook until smooth; now r add 
one cupful of mushrooms chopped fine, one pt. 
cooked lobster or one can chopped fine, one 
level teaspoonful dry mustard, one teaspoon- 
ful chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste; 
cook ten minutes. Add yolks of three eggs. 



50 

and white of one and one tablespoonful cream.. 
Mix thoroughly and set away to cool; w r hen 
cold shape into croquettes and fry in hot fat. 
If you choose, serve with white sauce. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

CREAMED SALMON. 

1 can of salmon, 

1 pint of white sauce, 

Bread crumbs. 

Flake the salmon and place alternate lay- 
ers in the dish of salmon and sauce highly 
seasoned with pepper and salt until all is used. 
Cover with bread crumbs, strewing with lumps 
of butter. Bake till brown. Very nice cooked 
in individual shells. Serve with crackers. 
Butter the crackers and brown delicately in 
the oven. 

For the sauce, melt two tablespoonfuls of 
butter in a sauce-pan; when it begins to bubble 
stir in carefully two tablespoonfuls of flour 
and then add gradually one pint of heated 
milk. MRS. F. MAY, Soquel. 

COD-FISH CREAM. 

Pick cod-fish into small pieces, cover with-, 
cold water and let it come to a boil; drain off 
the water and repeat if too salty. Cover with 
milk, or milk and cream; add butter size of a 
w r alnut, and pepper; when it comes to a boil 
thicken with flour wet up with cold milk. Re- 
move from the stove and stir in one or two, 
well beaten eggs, and serve with potatoes. 

MRS.. H. L. BRADFORD. 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 5! 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters well and dry them with 
a napkin. Have ready a griddle, hot and well 
buttered; season the oysters; lay them on the 
griddle and brown them on both sides. Serve 
them on hot plates with plenty of butter. 

MRS. FANNIE R. BARKLEY. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

One generous tablespoonml of flour, one 
pint of cream, one piece of onion size of a dime, 
one very small piece of mace, one pint oysters, 
salt and pepper to taste. Let the cream come 
to a boil with onion and mace. Mix flour with 
a little cold milk, stir into the boiling cream 
and cook eight minutes. Let the oysters come 
to a boil in^heir own liquor; drain and add 
them to the cream, having first skimmed out 
the onion and mace. Season to taste and 
serve on toast. Miss PERRY, Monterey. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

1 can of oysters, 

1 pt. rolled cracker crumbs, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, 

1 cupful of milk, 
% lemon, juice. 

Drain the liquor from oysters. In a baking- 
dish place a layer of crumbs, then a layer of 
oysters; over it scatter a little salt, pepper, 
lemon juice and butter, and so on until oysters 
are all used; cover with cracker crumbs, turn 
liquor and milk mixed over oysters and crack- 
ers and bake about one hour, until a brown 
crust has formed. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 



52 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

For each glass take ten California oysters. 
nine teaspoonfuls of tomato catsup, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, dash of tobasco and 
salt to taste. Fill the glass with oyster liquor 
and stir well. MRS. J. P. BIRLEM. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Line the bottom and sides of patty pans 
with rich paste. Put a cover of paste over, 
pinch edges together and bake in a quick oven 
about fifteen minutes. Stew raw ovsters in 

*/ 

their own liquor, cut in pieces, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, (to a dozen), then mix a 
teaspoonful of corn starch with two table- 
spoonfuls of milk or cream and stir in slowly. 
Season with salt and pepper to suit taste. 
Open the patties and put in a tablespoonml of 
oyster mixture and set in the oven for a short 
time. Serve hot. MRS. J. B! PORTER. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

(Chafing Dish Recipe). 

When the lamp is lighted, not turned on 
full, put in one tablespoonml butter; when 
melted, stir in one tablespoonful each of rolled 
cracker crumbs, and finely minced celery which 
has been cooked till tender. Two dozen oys- 
ters are laid in. Season with salt and pepper. 
Increase the heat and add a gill of cream. The 
moment the oysters become plump and the 
beards curl, the beaten yolk of one egg is stir- 
red in. Add lemon juice to taste. Serve in 
, small deep dishes. . . MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 53 

OYSTERETTES. 

Drain the liquor off a small can of cove 
oysters. Roll five or six soda crackers fine; 
add one egg, the oysters, a teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of pepper and one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder. Stir all together and add enough 
of the ilquor to make it the proper consistency 
for frying, Drop in tablespoonfuls in hot lard 
mid fry a nice brown on both sides. 

MRS. E. MAGUIRE. 

"ANGELS ON HORSEBACK." 

Mix in a saucer a little lemon juice, cay- 
enne pepper, essence of anchovy, then dip in 
the above mixture nice Eastern oysters, and 
roll each oyster in a very thin cut piece of ba- 
con; put these so prepared oysters on a skew- 
er and fry them in clarified butter. Place each 
oyster on a piece of fresh made toast and 
serve very hot. 

CHEF OF OCCIDENTAL HOTEL, S. F. 

STURGEON SOUFFLE. 

One pound of cold fish rubbed through col- 
ander. Salt, pepper and a grate of nutmeg. 
Yolks of five eggs. Take two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour; boil up; 
add one pint of milk, then stir in beaten whites 
of five eggs. Bake fifteen minutes. 

MRS. A. C. BARKER. 

FISH BALLS. 

Remove the bones from one-half pound of 
baked or fried fish, and pick to shreds; mix 
thoroughly with three times as much mashed 



54 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

potatoes, adding a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, and a little salt; make into balls. 
Beat two eggs well with a little milk. Dip the 
balls into the eggs, then in corn meal, and fry 
brown in hot fat or drippings. 

MRS. E. B. CAHOON, Soquel. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

1 pt. codfish shredded fine, 
1 pt. mashed potatoes, 
1 well beaten egg, 
Y 2 cupful of milk. 

Mix well, roll in small round cakes; brown 
in butter in a frying pan. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

ABALONE FRITTERS. 

Clean well, remove outside rim. Slice in 
one-fourth inch slices and pound well with a 
meat hammer. Dip slices in batter and fry in 
hot lard until a light brown. Batter: One egg, 
one cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder and salt to taste. Garnish 
with limes and serve hot. . MRS. T. HUGHES. 

ABALONES FRIED. 

Clean and slice as for fritters; pound well; 
salt and pepper. Dip each slice in beaten egg, 
then in cracker crumbs and fry in butter until 
a nice brown. Serve immediately. 

MRS. T. HUGHES. 

EGGS A LA VIRGINIA. 

Break two eggs in a shirred egg dish, sea- 
son with salt and pour over same about two 
tablespoonfuls stewed boneless terrapin, (club 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 55 

style) or a la Maryland. Besprinkle all with 
grated Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs, a lit- 
tle melted butter, and bake in a hot oven 
about three minutes; serve very hot. (Have 
eggs soft). 

CHEF OF OCCIDENTAL HOTEL, S. F. 

SCRAMBLED EGG WITH TOMATOES. 

One heaping teaspoont'ul of finely chopped 
onion and two neaping teaspoonfuls of butter 
placed on the stove and cooked until onions 
are brown. Heat one cupful of strained to- 
matoes. Beat well three eggs with one heap- 
ing teaspoont'ul of sugar, one level teaspoon- 
fill of salt and a dash of pepper and paprika; 
then pour tomatoes in, stirring constantly. 
When thoroughly mixed, add mixture to but- 
ter and onions and cook until like cream. 
Serve on toast, or better still, on shredded bis- 
cuit (on the split side) which have been split 
and warmed in the oven. Two tablespoonfuls 
of cheese can be added, if liked. 

MRS. A. W. ANDERSON. 

DIGESTIBLE BOILED EGGS. 

For hard boiled eggs: Put eggs into boil- 
ing water and place on back of stove, covered, 
where they can simmer, not boil, for twenty 
minutes. 

For soft boiled eggs: Put into boiling wa- 
ter, cover, remove to back of stove where wa- 
ter will not even simmer, and cook from eight 
to ten minutes. MRS. H. S. BALL. 

BIRDS IN NEST. 
Toast carefully as many slices of bread an 



56 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

are needed. Allow one egg to each slice. Sep- 
arate yolk and white, using care not to break 
yolk which must be retained whole. Beat 
whites to a stiff froth. Soften toast with but- 
ter and hot water, or butter and hot milk; 
heap beaten whites on the toast and place the 
yolk in the center of each slice; season with 
salt and pepper and place in hot oven on up- 
per side until whites are a delicate brown. Re- 
move and serve. MRS. B. V. SARGENT, JR. 

EGGS A LA BENEDICT. 

Take one piece of toast, cover with a slice 
of broiled ham, put one poached egg on top, 
cover w T ith sauce as follows: Take six raw yel- 
low eggs in a small saucepan, the juice of two 
limes, a little salt and red pepper, have one- 
half pound of good creamery butter boiling- 
hot without getting brown, and 'whip in it 
above; add a little cold water gradually. This 
is a very fine sauce and should be smooth like 
mayonnaise sauce. MR. HENRY BECKER, 
Chef of University Club, S. F. 

FROGS LEGS. 

Dip the washed and drained legs into milk, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in flour or 
cracker crumbs and drop in boiling olive oil 
for fifteen minutes or till done. Serve with 
sliced lemon and parsley. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

MINCED MEAT ON TOAST. 

Use any cold roast meat chopped fine. Put 
into a pan with a little butter, a pinch of 
salt, and pepper, and a little water and let it 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 57 

get well heated. Toast slices of bread, dip in 
milk just enough to moisten, put on dish and 
pour meat over. Put in oven for a few min- 
utes before serving. MRS! M. L. DEXTER. 

FRIED SWEET-BREADS. 

Remove from sweet-breads all skin and 
fat, and shape in suitable pieces to fry. Plunge 
into boiling water for about two minutes. Re- 
move from water, drain, and dry with a cloth. 
Dip each piece in beaten egg, roll in grated 
bread crumbs, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and fry in butter. Serve with mushrooms, 
cooked in cream, or with green peas, or plain 
with a few pieces of lemon. 

MRS. L. H. GARRIGUS. 

METHOD OF WARMING COLD ROAST BEEF 

Butter the size of an egg browned in a pan, 
one-half pint of stock or gravy, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one-half pint of mushrooms, 
pepper and salt to taste; simmer ten minutes. 
Cut slices of beef thin, lay in the same, and let 
come to a boil. Serve at once. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

MUTTON TOAST. 

Boiled mutton, chopped fine, moistened 
with butter and seasoned with salt and a lit- 
tle Worcestershire sauce, spread upon hot 
toast makes a palatable and economical dish. 

MRS. M. MCHARRY. 

mo UTAH "AI/C" TAKE KROUQH'S HEAD., 

run ntAU ARt ACHE POWDERS 



58 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

WELLINGTON PIE. 

Boil scraps of cold roast beef, or mutton, 
or steak, until tender, adding 1 a little butter, 
and flour enough to thicken like brown gravy. 
Take some maccaroni which has been boiled in 
salt water fifteen minutes, and line the bottom 
and sides of a pudding dish \vith it; put in the 
meat with its gravy, and a few small pieces of 
stale bread in the center. Put a few slices of 
tomato, or one-half can of tomatoes, with salt 
and pepper on top, and a sprinkling of fine 
bread or cracker crumbs over all, and bake 
about twenty minutes. 

MRS. H. A. MITCHELL, Palo Alto. 

HAM CAKES. 

Four boiled potatoes of medium size, one 
cupful of finely chopped ham, or meat of any 
kind, (the dry bits that cling to the bones will 
answer), three tablespoonfuls of butter, salt 
and pepper to taste. Mash the potatoes until 
fine and light, using a fork; add the meat, salt, 
pepper, and one tablespoonful of the butter; 
mix well and shape into thin cakes about an 
inch and a half in thickness. Put the remain- 
ing butter on the stove in a frying pan, and a& 
soon as it gets hot, put the cakes into pan. 
Brown on both sides and serve on a warm 
dish. MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

TRIPE CLUB STYLE. 

Take a whole tripe, one ox foot, three 
calves feet, well washed and cleaned. Cut in 
pieces two inches long by one square. Take 
an earthen pot, put the pieces of feet at the 
bottom, cover with a layer of tripe, carrots. 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 5? 

:and onions, and so on until vessel is full. Tie 
in a cloth a sprig of thyme, two bay leaves, 
twelve whole peppers and six cloves; put in 
the pot, pour over a bottle of white wine and 
a gill of brandy. Place on top three green 
leeks and a little parsley; cover, and fasten 
it down with paste so the steam cannot escape 
.and cook slowly for ten or twelve hours. 

CHEF OF OCCIDENTAL HOTEL, S. F. 

POTPOURRI. 

Chop fine, scraps of cold meat, and add 
minced onion to flavor. Roll dry bread crumbs 
and put a layer of meat in a pudding dish, 
then a layer of bread crumbs with small bits 
of butter, salt arid pepper, and repeat until 
dish is full. Pour over the top cold gravy, or 
souj) stock, or a little w r ater; cover and bake 
one-half hour. MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

KIDNEY SAUTE. 

Take two beef kidneys; after washing clean 
slice thin. Put a spoonful of butter in a hot 
thick pan and fry them a nice brown. Season 
with salt and pepper, sprinkle over a little 
flour, add a little chopped parsley and onion 
and one and one-half glasses of claret and 
water. Simmer gently until kidneys are ten- 
der and gravy has foamed. 

MRS. E. WILLIAMS. 

BAKED BRAINS. 

Lay two calves brains or as many as is 
wanted in cold salted water and leave two or 

Take your PRESCRIPTIONS to KROUQH 

DRUQQIST, SWLINAS 



60 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

three hours until they are blanched. Take off 
their outer skin, drop into slightly salted boil- 
ing water, add slice of onion; boil ten minutes. 
Roll in melted butter, then in very fine crack- 
er crumbs; season with salt and pepper. 
Lay each brain on a large slice of bacon in a 
baking pan and bake in hot oven one-half 
hour. Serve with any sour sauce and sliced 
lemon. MRS. C. L. PIODA. 

FRICASSEE OF CHIPPED BEEF. 

Have the beef sliced as thin as possible; 
then either put it through a meat-chopper or 
pick it apart with the fingers into fine shreds. 
To each quarter of a pound allow a table- 
spoonful of butter, one of flour and half a pint 
of milk, a teaspoonful of browning or kitchen 
bouquet, and a yolk of an egg. If the meat is 
salt cover it with boiling water, and let it 
stand for fifteen minutes: then drain and dry. 
Put the butter in a saucepan: when melted 
throw in the beef, and stir until the beef is 
thoroughly heated; then dust over the flour; 
mix, and add the milk. Stir constantly until 
boiling. Push to the back part of the stove 
where it will sort of simmer gently -for five 
minutes. Add a dusting of pepper and the 
browning, and take it from the fire; add the 
yolk of the egg, and turn at once into the 
heated dish in which it is to be served. This 
may be garnished with slices of broiled or 
baked mush, or served with plain, well-boiled 
mush. MRS. A. B. ATKINS. Mich. 

BAKED PEPPERS. 

half a dozen large green bell peppers 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 61 

and place in boiling water for five minutes, 
not permitting them to come to a boil. 
Take from water and rub off skins with a wet 
cloth. Cutoff stem ends and after removing 
seeds stuff peppers with any kind of cold meat, 
minced fine and mixed with an equal quantity 
>f stale bread softened with milk and season- 
ed with salt and sage. Replace stem ends and 
set ] >eppers in a deep dish and cover with cold 
gravy w a mixture of butter and water. Bake 
for half an hour in moderate oven. 

MRS. C. F. LACEY. 

STUFFED CHILI PEPPERS. 

Take half a dozen large sized green pep- 
pers and brown on top of the stove; when 
done peel carefully and make a stuffing of cold 
meat chopped fine; add a small piece of onion 
and tomatoes chopped, a little thyme, parsley 
and salt; then fry. When done stuff the Chilis, 
make a thin batter of flour and two eggs, dip 
the Chilis in batter and fry in hot lard like 
doughnuts, When brown arrange in a dish 
and make a sauce of brown flour and pour 
over them. MRS. - 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Beat one-half pound of fresh butter to a 
cream; add six eggs one by one, beat until 
very light, then add one qt. of fresh crab 
meat, the cracker dust of eight soda crackers, 
one tablespoonful of Chili pepper, one-half tea- 
spoonful cayenne, one tablespoonful Worces- 
tershire sauce, and two small sweet peppers 

Use Krough's Vanilla and Lemon Extracts 



62 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

cut in shreds. Cut the bottom off around the 
stem of one dozen large bell peppers, take out 
all the seeds and wash, fill with the stuffing 
and return cap, and stand up in a shallow 
roast pan; put a small piece of butter on each; 
bake twenty minutes in a moderate even, bast- 
ing frequently with a little stock gravy. Take 
out on a platter and pour a spoonful of gravy 
over each pepper. Garnish with parsley and 
serve very hot. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

MOCK OYSTERS OF CORN. 

Six nice plump ears of sweet corn, uncook- 
ed. Grate from the cob; beat one egg and stir 
into one tablespoonful of flour and one table- 
spoonful of milk; mix all with the grated corn 
and season with salt and pepper. Put a tea- 
spoonful of butter or lard into a pan, heat 
very hot and drop in a spoonful of corn mix- 
ture. Brown well on both sides. Serve very 
hot for breakfast. 

MRS. SUSIE J. HARRIS, Santa Cruz. 

SARDINE OMELET. 

4 eggs beaten separately, 
1 green onion, chopped fine, 
1 box sardines chopped fine. 
Fry the onion in oil first, then add the 
other ingredients and cook all together; salt 
and pepper. When browned on one side, turn 
by placing a plate over the omelet and turn- 
ing the omelet onto the plate, then putting it- 
back into the pan to brown on the other side. 

Miss ZABALA. 

Qo to Krough's Drug Store for your fine Perfumes 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 63 

OMELET. 

Beat yolks and whites of eight eggs separ- 
ately until light, .then beat together; add salt 
and a tablespoonful of cream. Have in ome- 
let pan a piece of butter; when butter is boil- 
ing hot, pour in omelet and shake until it be- 
gins to stiffen, then let it brown. Fold double 
and serve hot. MRS. H. SAMUELS. 

HOMINY FRITTERS. 

2 cupfuls of cold boiled hominy, 
2 eggs, 

1 cupful of milk, 
1 cupful of flour, 
% teaspoonful of baking powder, 
Salt. 

Drop in smoking hot fat and fry like 
doughnuts. MRS. J. J. KELLY. 

FRUIT FRITTERS. 

Mix two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour 
with a pinch of salt; stir into it gradually half 
a gill of tepid water and a tablespoonful of 
salad oil. Mix perfectly smooth and let it 
stand for a little while. When about to use 
beat into it quickly the whole of one egg whip- 
ped as stiff as it possibly can be. Any fruit 
may be used. MRS. JOHN CLEMENTS. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a, batter of one cupful of sweet milk, 
two cupfuls of flour, one heaping teaspoonful 
of baking powder, two eggs beaten separately, 
one tablespoonful sugar and a saltspoonful of 
salt. Heat the milk just a little, beat yolks 



64 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

of eggs, add sugar . aud salt, and gradually 
stir in the warm milk; then add the flour mix- 
ed with the baking powder, and lastly the 
beaten whites of the eggs; mix well and throw 
in thin slices of good sour apples, dipping the 
batter ov.er them; drop into boiling lard in 
spoonfuls, with a piece of apple in each, and 
fry to a light brown. Serve with maple syrup. 
Chopped chicken is very nice used in place of 
apples. MRS. M. L. DEXTER, 

GERMAN PANCAKE. 

Take two eggs, three tablespoonmls of 
milk, one tablespoonful of flour, a pinch of 
salt, and mix well together. Have an eight 
inch frying pan hot, put in a tablespoonful of 
lard, and the same amount of butter; when 
melted pour in your batter and let it cook a 
little; turn quickly and cook about one minute 
longer, leaving the cake soft on the inside, 
then put the pan into a hot oven and the pan- 
cake will puff up in five minutes, when it is 
done. Serve at once with powdered sugar or 
jelly. F. W. SCHROEDER. 

ONION TOAST. 

Boil for twenty minutes in a pint of salted 
water, six medium sized onions chopped fine, 
drain, and put in a bowl with one tablespoon- 
ful of butter and a salt spoonful of pepper; 
mix together; lay on rounds of hot buttered 
toast and garnish with slices of hard boiled 
eggs. MRS. WALLACE C. BROWN. 

GERMAN TOAST. 

Cut in slices one loaf of light bread. Put 
in a bowl a pint of milk, two eggs well beaten 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 65 

and a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, into 
which dip each slice of bread until well mois- 
tened. Put butter the size of an egg into a 
frying pan, and when quite hot lay in the bread 
browning nicely on both sides. Serve hot. A 
little nutmeg may be used for flavoring if de- 
sired. MRS. THOS. RENISON. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Take one pint of pea beans, pick over and 
wash, place in a kettle with cold water to 
cover and boil until you take up a spoonful, 
blow them and the skin cracks; take them out 
with a skimmer and place in your two quart 
bean pot. (or porcelain dish), add a little salt 
and a teaspoonful of molasses; have a white 
piece of pork, one pound, fat and lean mixed, 
score across top and place in the middle on 
top of beans. Cover with warm water and 
bake seven hours. When beginning to brown, 
cover until about an hour before using; remove 
cover, allow them to get brown and crispy. 
Do not allow the water to boil away lest they 
be too dry. When ready for table they should 
be brown, crispy, tender, soft and juicy below 
the surface. MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

OYSTER SANDWICHES. 

Drain liquor from a can of oysters, chop 
the oysters fine, and season with salt, pepper 
and butter. Heat the liquor and thicken with 
pulverized cracker, putting in plenty of butter, 
then stir in the oysters and spread between 
slices of bread and butter. 

MRS. G. S. HAMILTON, Pacific Grove. 



66 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Take nice crisp lettuce leaves and place on 
ice to get cold and firm. Cut thin slices of 
bread, butter tliem a little, and lav upon each 
slice one of the lettuce leaves, over which 
spread a nice mayonnaise dressing, then lay 
the two slices together. Thin crackers may be 
used in place of bread. Serve soon after mak- 
ing. MRS. H. W. SEALE. 

WATER-CRESS SANDWK 'HES. 

Wash well some water-cress and dry in a 
cloth, pressing out all moisture. Mix witli the 
cress, hard boiled eggs chopped line and sea- 
soned with salt and pepper. Place between 
buttered slices of bread from which the crust 
has been removed. If desired, add lemon juice 
to the cress. 

MRS. G. S. HAMILTON. Pacific Grove. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Boil eggs twenty minutes. When cold, 
chop fine with one cue-umber pickle to every six 
eggs. Butter thin slices of bread and spread 
with the eggs. MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

WELCH RAREBIT. 

4 tablespoonfuls of cream or new milk., 
1 tea-spoonful of salt. 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 
1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce.. 
% teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. 
1 cupful of cheese sliced very thin. 
Mix all together until of the consistency of. 
paste. Serve on toast.. MRS. H. H. MASOX. 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 67 

WELCH RAREBIT. 

Cut the common American cheese into tiny 
pieces, allowing a heaping- tables] )Oonful to 
each person: scatter over this Worcestershire, 
tobasco and milk, or stale beer. To each 
spoonful of the cut cheese allow one-half tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire, one drop of tobasco, 
and one scant tables] joonful of milk, (or beer). 
Place in a hot stew pan in which has been 
placed a tiny piece of butter. Commence to 
stir cheese the minute it is in the pan and do 
not stop until thoroughly melted, and smooth 
like thick cream. Place a spoonful of this on 
a toasted cracker and serve at once. Cheese a 
little old is best and can be grated if one pre- 
fers. MRS. C. F. BARKER. 

WELCH RAREBIT. 

% R>. cheese, 

l / 2 cupful warm water. 

% cupful sweet milk, 

1 egg. 

Small piece butter. 

(h-ate the cheese and moisten with milk 
and water, add egg well beaten and then the 
butter. Put in a pan and boil three minutes, 
then add a dash of mustard and cayenne pep- 
per. Have ready some buttered toast moist- 
ened in water, pour cheese over it and serve 
while hot. MRS. J. B. PORTER. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Boil and mash six good sized potatoes, 
add one egg, salt and pepper to taste, and 
.beat well; line a baking dish, (bottom and 



68 ENTREES BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

sides), about one inch thick. Chop any cold 
cooked meat,, season, and place a piece of but- 
ter the size of a walnut in the center of dish. 
over with potatoes and bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. Turn out to serve. A 
nice way to use any cold meats. 

MRS. JOB WOOD. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

4 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, 

1 cupful of grated cheese. 
Beat whites of eggs till stiff; beat yolks, 
add, beat, then stir in milk. Put in a frying- 
pan one large tablespoonful of butter and 
heat very hot. Pour in mixture and fry until 
it is set, then sprinkle over a little salt and the 
grated cheese. Fold and take to table at 
once. MRS. CHAS. B. ROSENDALE, 

Pacific Grove. 

GERMAN CHEESE BUTTER. 

1 Ib. of butter, 

1 IGc German cheese grated and a 
little Swiss cheese if preferred. 

1 teaspoonful of paprika and a dash of 
white pepper. 

Just melt the butter, take from the stove 
and add the grated cheese gradually, stirring 
constantly. Add paprika and pepper and stir 
until cool and creamy. Excellent for sand- 
wiches. MRS. CHAS. B. ROSENDALE, 

Pacific Grove. 

BOHEMIAN CLUB CHEESE. 

vOne Ib. grated cheese, three tablespoonfuls 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 69 

of Worcestershire sauce, one tablespopnful of 
vinegar, one tablespoonful of melted butter 
and a little salt and red pepper. 

MRS. JOHN CLEMENTS. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

1 tablespoonful of butter, 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 

5 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 
1 egg, a little salt, 

Cayenne pepper to taste. 
Mix the same as pie crust, using no wetting 
but the egg. Roll about an eighth of an inch 
thick, cut in strips, and bake in a very hot 
oven. MRS. E. LEWIS, Pacific Grove. 

CHEESE CHIPS. 

1 cupful of grated cheese, 

1 cupful of sifted flour, 

A pinch each of salt and pepper, 

l / 2 cupful of water, or as much as will 

make a dough to roll well. Cut like noodles, 

in even lengths, and bake quickly. 

MRS. JOHN CLEMENTS. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Boil macaroni till tender. Remove from 
water, season with salt and pepper. Put a 
layer of macaroni into a thick earthen dish, or 
tin pan, cover this with. grated cheese, add an- 
other layer of macaroni, which cover in like 
manner, and so continue till dish is nearly full. 
Cover top with bits of butter and brown in 
oven. MRS. L. H. GARRIGTJS. 



70 ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

MACARONI AU BEURRE. 

Take boiled macaroni three-quarters done, 
put it in a saucepan with butter, salt and pep- 
per; fry until seasoned and serve hot. Cheese 
may be added. Miss E. M. SMITH. 

MACARONI WITH ONIONS. 

Put alternate layers of boiled macaroni, 
boiled onions and white ^sauce into a baking* 
dish; cover with bread crumbs and bake until 
brown. MRS. VICTOR PORTER. 

MACARONI AND OYSTERS. 

Scald one pt. of oysters in their own 
liquor and drain; grease a baking dish and 
fill with alternate layers of boiled macaroni, 
(one-fourth Ib.) and oysters seasoned with 
salt and pepper. Have the last layer maca- 
roni. Pour over one cupful of cream sauce, 
cover top with bread crumbs and brown in a 
quick oven. BEATRICE M. PORTER. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter, without 
browning, add one tablespoonfulof flour, mix 
until smooth; add one cupful of cream and stir 
until it thickens: season with salt and pepper. 
Just as you take it from the fire stir in quickly 
the yolk of one egg. Do not let sauce stand on 
the fire after egg is added or it will be spoiled. 
Boil one-half pound of macaroni; melt four 
heaping tablespoonfuls of cheese with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter; grease a baking dish 
.and fill with alternate layers of macaroni and 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 71 

the sauce. Pour the melted butter and cheese 
carefully over the top that it may penetrate 
the whole dish. Cover with bread crumbs and 
brown in a quick oven. MRS. A. LLOYD. 

KSCALOPED OYSTERS A XI) MACARONL 

Boil the macaroni soft, put n layer into a 
baking' dish, cover with oysters, season with 
salt, pepper and butter, then another layer of 
macaroni, then a layer of oysters until dish is 
filled. Bake twenty minutes. 

MRS. WALLACE C. Bnowx. 
Pacific Grove. 



IN COOKING.,,. 

It is essential to have a good recipe 
also to have a, good cook, but the 
main point is to have 

HIGH GRADE 
GUARANTEED 
GOODS TO COOK 
And the right place to buy them is at 

LAN DRAM'S 



The Gash Grocer 

368, 370, 372 Main street Salinas, Cala., 

Who carries all the standard goods. 

S. C. LANDRAM. 



JVIeats 



'What say you to a piece of beef and uiust:u<l." SHAKESPEARE. 

Meat should be carefully selected. Beef to 
be tender and juicy should be young, the meat 
of a clear, bright red color, fine grained a,nd 
the fat white. 

The choicest parts for roasting are the sir- 
loin and tenderloin cuts, and the sixth, sev- 
enth and eight ribs. 

For steaks the porterhouse and tenderloin 
cuts are the nicest. Have them cut from a 
half to three-quarters of an inch thick. Steaks 
are far better broiled than fried. 

The flesh of good mutton is dark red, with 
firm white fat. The best, roasts are the leg, 
the saddle and the shoulder. 

Pork should have the skin smooth and. 
thin. 

All fresh meats to be boiled should be put 
in boiling water to set. the juices, and no salt 
added until meat is nearly done. Boil slowly, 
as rapid boiling toughens meat. Keep well 
covered with boiling water. Allow fifteen min- 
utes to the pound for beef arid mutton; twenty 
minutes to the pound for ham. 

Salt meat should be put in cold water to 
allow it to freshen while cooking. Very salt 
meats should be soaked in cold water over 
night. 

To make tough meat or fowl tender rub a 
quantity of soda over it the day before using, 



MEATS 73 

and for fowls rub inside also. Wash off before 
cooking. Or, a small amount of soda put into 
boiling water in which the meat or fowl is 
cooking will help make it tender. Some use 
vinegar and pronounce it as good as soda.- 

Use four level tablespoonfuls of flour to 
one cupful of milk for mixing with meats for 
croquetts, etc., find two level tablespoonfuls of 
Hour to one cupful of milk for gravies, sau- 
ces, etc. 

TO ROAST MEATS. 



BEEF. 

The oven should be very hot when the beef 
is first put in, and neither salt nor water 
should be added. The secret of juicy roast 
beef is in having no steam to prevent it from 
crisping over as quickly as possible. When 
well-browned, and at least half done, it maybe 
well salted, and the heat a little less intense. 
Then pour a little hot water into the pan, and 
baste frequently. Allow fifteen minutes to the 
pound for those who like it rare; eighteen or 
twenty minutes to make it well done. 

MUTTON. 

Mutton needs a slow oven at first, and un- 
less it is to be rare, allow twenty-five minutes 
to the pound; a little water put in the pan 
and the meat well salted. 

PORK AND VEAL. 

Pork and veal require a slow oven at first, 
and should be well done; half an hour to the 
pound is a good rule. 



74 MEATS 

ENGLISH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

1% cupmls of flour, 
1 teaspoDiiful of baking powder, 
Butter size of a walnut, 
Pinch of salt. 

Stir all through the flour, then add enough 
sweet milk to make a thick batter. Pour into 
the gravy around a roast of beef and bake fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

MRS. W. J. BLACK. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

4 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 

1% pints of milk, 

A pinch of salt. 

Remove the roast of beef to another pan., 
then bake the batter in the gravy for half an 
hour. MRS. J. R. HEBBRON. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Take six large tablespoonfuls of flour, 
three eggs well beaten, one saltspoonful of salt, 
about one and one-half pts. of milk or enough 
to make it the consistency of soft custard and 
beat well together. Empty dripping pan 
three-quarters of an hour before beef is done. 
Put pudding in pan and the beef on a three 
cornered stand over it that the juice of the 
beef may drop on the pudding. Bake three- 
fourth of an hour. MRS. C. L. PIODA. 

POT ROAST. 

Have kettle very hot; put in meat and sear 
well on all sides. This prevents juice from es- 
caping and makes meat more tender. Nearly 



MEATS 75 

'-cover with boiling water and boil very gently, 
(rapid boiling 1 toughens meat). For a .piece 
weighing' four or five pounds boil about five 
hours. Do not salt until one-half hour before 
meat is done. When done there should be no 
water in pot, only the grease, in which brown 
the meat. Remove roast from pot, pour out 
some of the grease and make a gravy of milk 
or water thickened with a little flour. If sea- 
soned meat is liked add bouquet of leaves of 
onions, celery, thyme, parsley and a little sage 
while boilin. MRS. BRYAN Tacoma. 



. 



POT ROAST. 

Take a piece of beef and stick quite a num- 
ber of cloves in it. Boil it gently a bout four 
hours in a little water with salt and pepper, 
When done take up the meat and add a piece 
of butter and the juice of a lemon to the gra- 
vy: thicken with flour and then pour over the 
meat. MRS. F. MAY, Soquel. 

ROAST OF VEAL. 

Take out the bone of the joint: make a 
dee]) incision between the fillet and the flap; 
then fill it with stuffing made as follows: Two 
cupfuls of bread crumbs, half a cupful of chop- 
ped pork, half a lemon peel grated, a little 
juice, thyme, summer savory, or any herbs to 
taste; or with this stuffing: Soak half a pound 
of bread, (with the crust cut off), in tepid \va- 
ter, then squeeze it dry. Put three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter into a stew pan, and when hot 
stir in a small onion minced, which color 
slightly; then add the bread with three table- 
jspoonfuls of parsley chopped fine, half a tea- 



76 MEATS 

spoonful of powdered thyme, a little grated 
nutmeg, pepper, salt and a gill of stock. Stir 
over the fire until it leaves the bottom and 
sides, then mix in two eggs. Bind the veal in- 
to a round form, fasten it with skewers and 
twine, sprinkle over pepper and salt and cover 
with buttered paper. Be careful not to put 
the meat too near the- fire at first. Baste well 
and often. Just before it is done remove the 
paper, sprinkle over a little flour, and rub 
over a little butter. This gives a frothy ap- 
pearance to the surface of the meat. When 
done, put the pan of gravy on the fire, add a 
little flour, some boiling water, and when 
cooked some lemon juice. Fry some pieces of 
ham cut in diamond shape; place these in a 
circle around the roast, each piece alternated 
with a slice of lemon. MRS. J. B. JONES. 

CURRY OF COLD ROAST BEEF. 

Cut some small pieces of cold roast beef 
and dredge them with flour. Slice a small 
onion and fry it a light brown in one heaping 
'tablespooiiful of butter; then pour in a little 
gravy. Add tablespooiiful of curry powder 
and the meat. Set on a brisk fire and stir well 
for ten minutes. Serve with border of rice 
around the dish. MRS. F. MAY, Soquel. 

CHOPPED MEAT. 

Chop twenty cents worth of round steak 
with small piece of suet. Add one cupful of 
rolled cracker, one cupful of sweet milk, two 
eggs, butter size of an egg and seasoning. Mix 
thoroughly. Set the dish of meat into covered 

Use Krough's Vanilla and Lemon Extracts 



MEATS 77 

pan half full of water and bake two hours. 

MRS. 0. S. TRIMMER, Pacific Grove. 

FILLET OF BEEF. 

This is tenderloin although sirloin is some- 
times used. Trim off fat, tough skin, etc.; 
lard with salt pork and fry one-half hour. 
Take the meat out of the pot and fry one-half 
tablespoonfulof flour until brown; add a glass 
of white wine, one-half cupful water, a cupful 
mushrooms and a bouquet of leaves of celery, 
onion, parsley, carrot and thyme tied togeth- 
er. Place meat in this sauce and cook two 
hours with a slow fire. Before serving take 
out bouquet. MRS.W. H. PYBURN. 

BEEF STEW. 

Cut a steak in small pieces, put in a pan 
with a little butter and brown it; take out and 
roll in flour and put it on to stew T , adding two 
onions, a little cinnamon, cloves, allspice, one 
tea-spoonful of vinegar, a little salt and pep- 
per; boil four hours. MRS. F. GATES. 

TO ROAST BEEF HEART. 

Wash well and clean all the blood from the 
pipes; parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in boil- 
ing water; drip the water from it. Lard the 
heart and put in a stuffing w r hich has been 
made of bread crumbs, minced suet, a little 
ham, butter, sweet marjoram, thyme, parsley, 
salt, pepper, and a little mustard and onion 
according to one's particular taste. Put to 
roast at once; baste well with suet and butter 
mixed. Serve with a drawn gravy and currant 
jelly. To roast allow twenty minutes to the 
pound. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 



78 HEATS 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Trim cutlets neatly, flatten with the side of 
a knife, squeeze on lemon juice, dip in beaten 
eggs, then in crumbs. Fry thin slices of bacon 
and remove from pan. Fry cutlets in the fat, 
ten minutes on one side, turn and fry ten min- 
utes more. Remove meat, pour off fat, make 
gravy and serve with bacon. 

MRS. A. 0. BARKER. 

ROAST PIG. 

Clean, rince, and dry. Rub inside well with 
salt. Stuff with dressing made with bread, 
sage, onion, pepper,, half cupful of butter and 
two eggs. Roast twenty minutes to the pound, 
basting often-. MRS. JOHN HEBBROX. 

ROAST BEEF ROLL. 

Get a good sized round steak one inch and 
a half thick. Trim to rectangular form. Chop 
trimmings of beef, bread, onion, a little salt 
pork, and spices to taste to form a force-meat 
which spread over the steak: roll, secure 
with skewers, or tie securely with string. Baste 
frequently with butter and suet mixed, or but- 
ter alone, mixed with water. Place all roasts 
of meat on a grate in the dripping pan. May 
be served, (if used warm), with the following 
sauce: Brown in a pan a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, add one-half pint of rich soup stock, one 
small onion and one carrot chopped fine. 
Stew fifteen minutes: add a pickled cucumber 

Take your PRESCRIPTIONS to KROUGH 

DRUGGIST, SALINAS 



MEATS 79 

chopped fine, and a tablespoonl'ul of vinegar 
with a dash of red pepper. This sauce is not 
thickened or strained. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

PORK FRIED IX BATTER. 

Slice the pork thin and fry until nearly 
done; beat an egg into which dip the slices of 
pork, then roll them in flour and brown nicely. 
Breakfast bacon may be cooked in the same 
manner. MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

VEAL LOAF. 

3 Ibs. veal off the round, (chopped fine), 

1 cupful rolled cracker, 

3 eggs, (beaten), 

1 slice of butter, 

1 tea spoonful of salt, 

1 level teaspoonful of sage, 

1 level teaspoonful of pepper, 

3 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Mix and bake one hour. When mixed it 
will be quite soft. While baking baste often 
with drawn butter. One tablespoonfulof flour 
with one slice of melted butter and boiling- 
water for basting. MRS'. Thos. HARRIS. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of veal cutlets and a small 
piece of salt pork, (uncooked), chopped to- 
gether very fine, one teacupful of cracker 
crumbs moistened with a little water, one egg; 
season with salt, pepper, and sage or savory if 
you like. Bake one . and one-half hours and 
slice when cold. MRS. M. McHARRY. 

Go to Krough's Drug Store for your fine Perfumes 



80 MEATS 

BOILED HAM. 

Weigh ham and boil twenty minutes to ev- 
ery pound; when done put it in cold water for 
twenty minutes, Take out, skin, put into a 
baking pan and pour over it a tumbler of jelly 
and sherry wine; put into the oven for twenty 
minutes; baste well. Before serving the sautfe 
pour off the grease. This is also very nice 
eaten cold, but the sauce must always be 
warm. Venison is very nice cooked in this 
manner. MIJS. H. W. SEALE. 

BAKED HAM.' 

One slice of ham one inch thick; soak one 
hour in a cupful of sweet milk. Cut off the 
rind and put the ham in an earthen pudding 
dish which is just large enough to hold it with- 
out folding. Sprinkle over it an even tea- 
spoonful of granulated sugar, a dust of pep- 
per and a teaspoonful of flour. Cover closely 
and bake two hours in a slow oven. Drain off 
some of the fat, add a fresh cupful of milk to 
which has been added one teaspoonful of flour: 
boil up and serve in the dish in which it was 
baked. Variation: After freshening, sugar- 
ing and dredging with flour, place on top of 
ham a large tomato skinned and sliced; dredge 
this with flour and pepper and bake. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT, 

CALF'S HEAD. 

Put calf's head, scraped and cleaned by 
butcher, with tongue and brains into pot with 

rrm UTAH "Ai/r" TAKE KROUQM'S HEAD- 
rUn MtAU Al\t ACHE POWDERS 



MEATS 81 

six quarts of water, an onion, <*arrot, herbs, 
etc. Boil slowly two hours. Take one-half, 
remove inside bones, score the skin, egg, 
crumb and season; bake brown, basting- with 
butter. Serve with thin slices of bacon. Use 
sou]) and other half for mock turtle stows. 
MRS. J. I{. Dixox, Stockton. 

MUTTON CURRIED. 

'2 tables]) oon fills of butter, 

2 onions grated, 

1 teaspoonfnl of curry powder. 

1 tablespoonful of flour, 

% ])t. of cream or milk. 
Boil and stir till smooth. Fry mutton, or 
slice cold roast, pour the sauce over nnd sim- 
mer three minutes. MRS. A. f. 



STUFFED BEEF STEAK ON TOAST. 

Have butcher cut two pounds of round 
steak one-fourth of an inch thick; cut in pie- 
ces about the size of a hand; place a small 
piece of bacon, a little chopped onion and pars- 
ley, pepper and salt on each piece; roll up and 
secure with tooth picks. Fry a piece of salt 
pork, place the steaks in the same pan aud 
cook gently for one-half an hour. When well 
done sprinkle a little flour over them, also a 
cupful of stock, or meat gravy, and serve on 
slices of toast. F. W. SCHIIOKDKH. 

STEW OF COLD MEAT. 

To one tablespoonful of butter when hot, 
add one small onion, one small green Chili 
pepper and the solid part of one large to- 
mato chopped fine, and fry slowly until 



82 MEATS 

browned; then add one pint cold meat ancF 
one-third a,s much cold potatoes cut in cubes, 
and boiling water to cover stew. Salt to 
taste. Stew slowly for one-half hour. Thick- 
en with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed into a 
tablespoonful of butter. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT 

TO CORN BEEF. 

One hundred Ibs. of beef, eight Ibs. of salt, 
four Ibs. brown sugar, one-quarter Ib. of salt- 
peter, one-quarter Ib. of black pepper. Pul- 
verize and mix well. Put a layer of the mix- 
ture on the bottom of a barrel, then a layer of 
beef, then mixture, and so on until beef is all 
used, then place a weight on it. In three or 
four days it will make its own brine. Keep it 
covered under the brine and if will keep until 
consumed. MRS. F. X. NOBLE, Pacific Grove. 

MEATS AND SUITABLE SAUCES. 

Roast beef, Tomato sauce; jelly. 
Boiled beef, Horseradish. 
Roast veal, Tomato sauce; currant jelly- 
Roast mutton, Mushroom sauce; jelly. 
Roast lamb. Mint sauce. 
Boiled mutton, Caper sauce. 
Boiled fowls. Oyster sauce. 
Roast turkey, Cranberry sauce. 
Venison, Ducks, Currant jelly. 
Chops, Tomato sauce. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEATS. 

When the meat is done, remove the roast 
from the pan and pour off thefat, leaving only 



MEATS 83 

three or lour tablespoonfuls in the pan. Then 
stir in a heaping tablespoonful of flour and 
add gradually cold water stirring constantly. 
Salt and pepper and cook for a few minutes. 

MRS. A. A. WETHERTLL. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Stew six tomatoes half an hour with two 
cloves, a sprig of parsley, pepper and salt; 
press this through a sieve; put a little butter 
into sauce-pan over the fire and when it bub- 
bles add a heaping teaspoonful of flour; mix 
and cook it well and add the tomato-pulp, 
stirring until it is smooth and consistent. 

Some add one or two slices of onion at 
first. It is a decided improvement to add 
three or four tablespoonfuls of stock. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Having prepared the mushrooms by cut- 
ting off the stalks, and if they are large, by 
cutting them in halves or quarters, throw 
them into a little boiling water, or what is 
much better, stock. Do not use more than is 
necessary to cover them. This must be sea- 
soned with salt, pepper and a little butter. 
Boil the mushrooms until they are tender, 
then thicken the gravy slightly with a .roux of 
butter and flour. Add a few drops of lemon 
juice. It is now ready to pour over the meat. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

(Made with canned mushrooms). 

Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut 

into a stew-pan; when it bubbles add a tea- 

i spoonful, (not heaping), of flour; when well 



84 MEATS 

cooked stir in a cupful of stock, (reduced and 
strong), and half a tea cupful of the mushroom 
juice from the can; let simmer for a minute or 
two; then, after straining- it, add half or three- 
quarters of a can of mushrooms, pepper, salt 
and a few drops of lemon juice. When thor- 
oughly hot it is ready to pour over the meat. 

MAITRE-D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

(For beefsteaks, boiled meats or fish). 

Mix butter size of an egg, juice of half a 
lemon, and two or three sprigs of parsley 
chopped very fine; pepper and salt all togeth- 
er. Spread this over any broiled meat or fish 
when hot; then put the dish into the oven a 
few moments to allow butter to penetrate the 
meat. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of chopped mint, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar and a quarter of 
a pint of vinegar into a sauce-boat. Let it 
remain an hour or two before dinner, that the 
vinegar may become impregnated with the 
mint. 

A SIMPLE BROWN SAUCE. 

Put into a sauce-pan a tablespoonful of 
minced onion and a little butter. When it has 
taken color, sprinkle in a heaping teaspoonful 
of flour; stir well, and when brown add half a 
pint of stock. Cook it a few minutes and 
strain. . Now. by adding a cupful of claret, two 
cloves, a sprig of parsley.' and 6ne of thyme, a 
.bay leaf, pepper and salt, and by boiling two 



MEATS 85 

or three minutes and straining it, one has the 
.sauce poivrade. 

If, instead of the claret, one should add to 
the poivrade sauce a tablespoonful each of 
.minced cucumber pickles, vinegar and capers, 
.one has the sauce piquante. 

By adding one teaspoonful of made mus- 
tard, the juice of half a lemon, and a little 
vinegar to the poivrade instead of the claret, 
<one has the sauce Robert. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

1 pt. of oysters, 
Half a lemon, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
1 teaspoonful of flour, 

1 teacupful of milk or cream, 
Cayenne and nutmeg to taste. 
Stew the oysters in their own liquor h've 
minutes and add the milk. When this boils, 
strain the liquor and return to the sauce-pan. 
Thicken with the flour when you have wet it 
with cold water; stir well in; put in the butter, 
next the cayenne, (if you like it), boil one 
minute; squeeze in the lemon juice, shake it 
around well and pour out. 

TOMATO JELLY. 

(For cold meats). 

Strain through a cloth a can of tomatoes. 
Dissolve a half box of gelatine in part of to- 
mato juice; heat remainder of juice and when 
hot pour on to dissolved gelatine. Season 
with salt and pepper arid pour into a wet 
mould or dish. MRS. M. E. HOOI^E, 

Pacific Grove. 



Sauces fot* fDeats 



^Catsup, Chow Chow, Chili Sauce, Etc. 

"The sauce to meat is ceremony. 

Meeting were bare without it." MACBETH. 

CURKY. 

1 tablespoonful of curry powder, 

1 teaspoonful of butter, 

1 small onion, 

1 desert spoonful of salt, 

1 qt. of water, 

1 pt. of split peas. 

Cook curry, butter, etc., first, then add 
peas and water. Boil quickly for one-half hour, 
then let it simmer an hour. The onion maybe 
omitted. MRS. A. L. MITCHELL. 

CHOW CHOW. 

Slice eighteen good sized cucumbers with- 
out paring. Chop fine two large heads of cab- 
bage, three dozen vsmall onions and eighteen 
bell-peppers. Sprinkle salt over all and let 
.stand twelve hours. Press out dry with the 
hands. Put in a porcelain kettle alternate 
layers of the chopped vegetables and the fol- 
lowing spices: 

2 ozs. white mustard seed, 
1 oz. turmeric, 

1 oz. celery seed, 

% Ib. ground mustard. 

1 Ib. sugar. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS 87 

Cover all with the best cider vinegar; boil 
until it begins -to thicken. Seal while hot. 

MRS. E. WHITE, Watsonville. 

EPICUREAN CHOW. 

6 pts. cabbage, 

3 pts. green tomatoes, 

3 pts. ripe tomatoes, 

3 pts. onions, 
1 pt. pickles, 
% pt. celery, 

1 pt. green peppers, 

% pt. grated horseradish, 

1 gal. best cider vinegar, 

2 Ibs. dark sugar, 

10 tablespoonfuls mustard seed, 

4 tablespoonfuls celery seed, 

3 tablespoonfuls allspice, 

*2 tablespoonfuls black pepper, 
Mace (lOc. worth cooked in a bag). 
All to be chopped fine, and boiled slowly 
for two hours. Bottle and seal. 

MRS. E. B. GABOON, Soquel. 

CHOW CHOW. 

24 large green tomatoes, 
24 large green peppers, 
8 good sized onions, 

4 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Chop these all fine and drain through a 
sieve. Add 8 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

1 tablespoonful of celery seed, 

2 tablespoonfuls of white mustard seed, 

3 teaspoonfuls each of ground ginger 

and cinnamon, 
1% teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, 



88 SAUCES FOR MEATS 

8 teacnpfuls of vinegar. 
Mix thoroughly and boil slowly four hours. 
This quantity will make two gallons. 

MRS. C. A. HUDSOX. 

CHOW CHOW. 

1 large bead of cabbage, 

2 qts. of cucumbers, 
2 qts. of green beans, 

10 Ibs. of green tomatoes, 

2 bunches of celery, 

2 large onions, 

1% Ibs. of green peppers, 

1 Ib. of white mustard seed, 

2 tablespoonfuls each of cinnamon,. 

cloves, allspice and black pepper. 
Add a little grated horseradish; chop; add 
salt to taste, and two quarts of heated vine- 
gar over all. MRS. H. SAMUELS. 

TOMATO CHOW CHOW. 

18 large ripe tomatoes, 
4 bell peppers, green, 

2 small onions, 

3 cupfuls of vinegar, 

2 tables] >oonfuls of salt, 

4 tablespoonf'sls of sugar, 

1 tablespoonful of red pepper, 

2 teaspoonfuls of ginger, 
2 teaspoonfuls of allspice, 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
2 teaspoonfuls of whole cloves, 
2 teaspoonfuls of ground black pepper. 
Stew from half an hour to an hour. If to 
keep through the \Vinter. seal hermeticallv. 

MRS. W. J. HILL. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS 89 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Take same quantity of green peppers arid 
tomatoes and half the amount of onions; chop 
very fine and add a little vinegar and salt to 
.suit taste MRS. WEBB. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

24 ripe tomatoes, 

6 green peppers, 

8 onions, 

8 teacupfnls of the best cider vinegar, 

4 tablespoonfuls of salt, 

8 tablespoont'nls of sugar, 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful of ginger, 

1 teaspoonful of cloves. 

Pare and slice tomatoes; chop peppers and 
onions fine; put together and boil for three 
hours, then add spices, sugar and vinegar, and 
boil one hour longer. Put in jars and seal. 
MRS. E. B. 'GABOON, Soquel. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Take one dozen red peppers, removing half 
the seeds. Cover them with boiling water and 
cook one-half hour. Mash fine, and when cool 
remove skins with the hand. Add a little salt, 
a teaspoonful of vinegar, and chopped onions; 
stir all together. It is then ready for use. 

MRS. M. B. MERRITT. 

COLD CATSUP. 

4 qts. unpeeled ripe tomatoes, 

2 red peppers, 
2 onions, 

Y 2 cupful salt, 



90 SAUCES FOR MEATS 

1 cupful sugar,. 

% cupful white mustard seed", 

1 cupful 'grated horseradish, 

2 tablespoonfuls white pepper,. 

1 qt. cider vinegar. 

Chop tomatoes fine, then drain; chop 
onions and peppers fine, then mix with toma- 
toes. Mix all together, putting in horseradish 
last. Put in fruit jars. This is sure to keep 
for a long time. MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

6 large cucumbers peeled, grated and. 

drained, 

3 green peppers, 

2 onions, 

2 tablespoonfuls horseradish, 
2 tablespoonfuls salt, 
Y 2 tea-spoonful black pepper, 
1 qt. vinegar. 

Chop onions and peppers fine and mix 
with grated cucumbers. Add pepper, salt and 
horseradish, then the vinegar and stir well. 

Miss F. G. WOODCOCK. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One box of ripe tomatoes, sliced and sim- 
mered in a porcelain kettle until soft; press 
them through a sieve; then add, 

% cupful of salt, 

1 oz. mace, 

1 tablespoonful of black pepper, 

l / 2 dozen green peppers; 

1 tablespoonful of cloves, 

7 tablespoonfuls ground mustard.. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS 91 

1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful celery seed tied in a 
thin muslin bag. Return to the fire and boil 
five hours, stirring frequently, and constantly 
during the last hour. Let it stand twelve 
hours in a stone jar in a cool place, then add 
one pint of strong cider vinegar. Take out 
the bag of celery seeds, and bottle, sealing the 
*corks. Keep in a cool dark place. 

MRS. E. B. CAHOON, Soquel. 

TOMATO CHUTNEY. 

1 can of tomatoes, 

1 pt. of vinegar,, 

1 oz. of salt. 

1 medium sized onion, 

% oz. ground white pepper, 

1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. 

Boil all together, then press through a 
sieve; add a small bowl full of sliced apples, 
same quantity of stoned raisins, one cupful of 
sugar, and juice of three lemons. Boil till 
raisins are tender, and when cold put into 
small jars. MRS. F. MAY, Soquel. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

12 large ripe tomatoes, 
9 long green peppers, 
4 large onions, 
% cupful sugar, 

2 cupfuls vinegar, 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 

Chop onions and peppers very fine. Cook 
until thick and onions are soft. 

MRS. N. E. BECKWITH, Los GATOS. 



92 SAUCES FOR MEATS 

PREPARED MUSTARD FOR COLD MEATS. 

% cupful Coleman's mustard, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, . 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

1 cupful of boiling- vinegar, 
Yolks of two eggs, 

A little dash of cayenne pepper. 
Cook till it thickens. Will keep a year. 
MRS. H. A. MITCHELL, Palo AJibo. 

MADE MUSTARD. 
4 tablespoonfuls of mustard, 

2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

Mix mustard and oil to a paste, add other^ 
ingredients and thin with vinegar. 

MRS. CHERT HEBERT. 

FRENCH MUSTARD, 

1 egg., 

1 teaspoonful of butter, 

1 heaping tablespoonful of sugar, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls of mustadd, 
% of a cupful of vinegar, 

A speck of cayenne pepper. . 
Beat egg, dissolve mustard in a little vine- 
gar, and add other ingredients. Put in a dou- 
ble boiler, or in a bowl over teakettle, and stir 
until it thickens. This will keep a long time. 

MRS. F. F. KELLOGG. 

J. CORDING, 

28 Main street. TT7\A7"FTT P T? 

Opp. town clock J r - VV C-l^AV g a i inaSi Cal. 



Poultry and Game 



"All the labor of man is for his inoutli, and yet the appetite 
is not tilled." SOLOMON. 

All poultry to be good eating should be 
young. The skin of all young fowls is easily 
torn. 

It is always best to prepare all poultry 
ready for use the day before it is to be used. 

To singe a fowl pour a few drops of alcohol 
on a plate and touch it with a lighted match. 
This method is much handier than burning a 
paper. 

Allow one-half hour to a pound for roast- 
ing 'turkeys. Chickens do not need so long a 
time, as the time varies in cooking according 
to age; yet it is always best to be on the safe 
side and allow plenty of time. If it is found to 
be done too early, remove the fowl from oven, 
keeping it warm, and replacing it for twenty 
minutes before dinner. It will not be injured 
in the least, but this method can be followed 
with nothing but poultry. 

An ordinary sized duck requires an hour 
and a half, but if ducks are unusually large 
allow a little longer time. If ducks are very 
fat the flavor is improved by washing in soda 
water. A tablespoonful of soda to two quarts 
of water. 

In roasting goose allow about three hours. 
Never use any but a young goose as old ones 
are not good eating. Wash in soda water, 



94 POULTRY AND (JAME 

(same as for ducks), as it extracts the strong 
oily flavor which is very disagreeable. 

Pigeons should lie in salt and water half 
an hour before cooking and should be cooked 
a long time as they are usually quite tough. 

HOW TO CARVE A FOWL. 

Put on the dish, breast up, head to the 
left. Place the fork in the breast, and take off 
the wings, legs, and second joints without 
turning the fowl; then cut off the "wish-bone" 
and slice meat from the breast. Cut out the 
collar-bone; cut off the side bones, then cut 
the carcass in two by breaking the back-bone. 

OYSTER FORCE MEAT. 

Twenty fresh oysters cut in quarters, one- 
half pint of grated stale bread, one ounce of 
suet or butter, two well-beaten eggs, and ' pep- 
per, salt and herbs to taste. 

MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

LEMON SAUCE (FOR BOILED FOWL). 

To one cupful of drawn butter sauce add 
the inside of a lemon chopped (seeds taken 
out), and the liver boiled and mashed. 

MRS. M. G. SMITH, San Jose. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Take a young turkey, thoroughly pick 
and clean it, wash it in two or three warm wa- 
ters, then rinse in cold until water is clear, and 
wipe it inside and out with a soft towel. Put 
it away in a dry, cool place, and prepare the 
stuffing. .Chop stale bread, removing hard or 
brown crusts, and allow a quart of crumbs for 



POULTRY AND GAME 95^ 

a turkey of six or seven pounds. Put crumbs 
in a large bowl and pour over just enough wa- 
ter to soften them. Cover, and after standing 
for a short time, drain as dry as possible. Stir 
into them a tablespoonful of butter, and if 
onion is liked, a small one chopped very fine, 
or, if preferred, a little chopped celery. Salt, 
pepper and sage to season well. Rub the sage 
leaves to a powder and sift before using. Sea- 
son rather highly, as seasoning cooks out. 
Then add an egg well beaten and mix thor- 
oughly. Rub the inside of the turkey well 
with a teaspoonful of salt and proceed to fill 
with stuffing. Begin with the neck, which 
shouid be cut close, turning the skin back that 
it may be drawn over and tied closely at the 
end after the stuffing has been put in. Stuff 
the body, not too full, as stuffing swells, and 
sew up. If any of the stuffing is left, make 
into little balls and put them into the pan 
about an hour before dinner time. Tie the 
legs down at the side, and put away where it 
will keep cool until wanted. When ready for 
baking, rub the turkey with salt and place it 
on a grate in a large dripping pan, pour half a 
pint of boiling water into the pan, (not over 
the turkey), and put into the oven, which 
should be at a moderate heat at first. During 
the first half hour the turkey should not- 
brown, but rather have the appearance of be- 
ing steamed. After it begins to brown, baste 
at intervals of half an hour, with its own 
drippings if the turkey is very fat, if not, use a 
little butter and dredge lightly with flour. 
When well browned on one side it should be 
carefully turned, which is more easiiy done if 
the pan is removed from the oven. At no 



96 POULTRY AND GAME 

time should the oven be very hot, as a turkey 
of seven pounds should cook for four hours. 
The giblets o should be put iuto the pan with 
turkey, and when done, (they require fully 
two hours' cooking), chop fine and place 
where they will keep warm. When turkey is 
done, remove to a warmed platter, take out 
all the strings, and place it where it will keep 
warm. Dip the fat from the pan, and place 
the pan with the remaining gravy, etc., on the 
stove where it will heat quickly. Add chopped 
giblets and sufficient boiling water to make 
about a pint of gravy, put in a. tablespoonful 
of flour, stir rapidly till it boils, then pour into 
a warmed gravy boat. MRS. H. S. BALL. 

TO ROAST A CANVASBACK DUCK. 

Pluck, singe, draw and wipe well. Never 
wash a canvasback duck as it is simply spoiled 
by so doing, and loses the delicious flavor so 
dear to the palate of hunters and "good-eat- 
ers." Some leave the heads on to show the 
species; I do. Roast without stuffing thirty 
minutes in a hot oven, after seasoning with 
salt and cayenne pepper. Baste with butter 
and a little water. Take up on hot platter. 
Add to gravy a tablespoonful of currant jelly, 
a dash of cayenne pepper, and thicken with a 
little browned flour, if you like. I like it better 
without the flour. A canvasback must be 
served and eaten directly after it comes out of 
the oven. MRS. JAMES C. MENOR. 

TO ROAST WILD DUCKS. 
Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a 
fishy flavor and are sometimes uneatable but 
properly handled are delicious. They should 



POULTRY AND GAME 97 

be well cleaned, then parboiled (not boiled), 
first putting within each duck a small peeled 
carrot, the object of which is to absorb the un- 
pleasant taste. Parboil twenty minutes; take 
out of water, drain, throw away carrot. Have 
ready a dressing made a's follows; (do not fill 
a duck quite full as the dressing swells). For 
one good-sized duck, one cupful stale bread 
chopped fine, one-half onion chopped fine, (af- 
ter it has been in salted water fifteen minutes,) 
one tablespoonful 01 chopped celery, (or a 
pinch of celery seed ), two thin shaves of garlic, 
one small clove, one tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Mix all together with a spoon; add 
salt, a dash of cayenne pepper, and just a lit- 
tle sage, then sew up. A great mistake is 
made in mixing any kind of dressing with the 
hands. It makes it heavy, sticky and very 
unpalatable. This amount of dressing to be 
multiplied by the number of ducks. Hub each 
duck with a little melted butter, dredge just a 
little and pepper and salt. Put a good sized 
diece of butter and a cupful of hot water in the 
roasting pan. If you' have a covered pan", 
(which is the proper thing), you need not 
baste the ducks while roasting. One hour or 
a little longer is sufficient time to roast ducks. 
Take up on hot platter. Into the gravy add 
one tablespoonful of currant jelly, a dash of 
cayenne pepper, and thicken with a little 
browned flour. MRS. JAMES C. MENOB.. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Dress and stuff the chicken. Put in steam- 
er- over boiling water and steam from one and 
a, half to two hours according to size; then 



98 POULTRY AND GAME 

place in oven and roast a nice -brown, basting 
frequently with water and butter. One-half 
hour in a hot oven is sufficient. Old fowls, 
(turkeys as well as chickens), become tender- 
as young ones with this treatment. Boil giz- 
zard, liyer and heart, in a saucepan; when 
done, chop fine; add them with the water in 
which they were boiled to gravy in the baking- 
pan; thicken with a little flour and season to 
taste. Miss BERWICK. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Wash chicken well before jointing, then 
dry each piece thoroughly. Put into a spider 
or frying pan, two-thirds of a cupful of butter, 
and when warmed, but not hot, put in the 
chicken; salt and pepper it, cover, and place 
on a hot part of the stove, but not where it 
will burn. Cook for three-quarters of an hour, 
turning when necessary. Take out when near- 
ly done, dip each piece in finely powdered bread 
crumbs, put back into the spider and cook un- 
til done, and nicely browned. Remove chicken 
'to a well warmed platter and prepare gravy 
by mixing one heaping tablespoonful of flour 
with the butter in spider, stirring until flour is 
well cooked; then pour in gradually one-half 
pint of milk or water and let it just come to a 
boil. MRS. WM. SUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

FRICASEE CHICKEN. 

Separate chicken at joints, cut back in two 
pieces and breast in three or more. Cover 
with water and cook until tender. There 
should be about half pint of water in the pot 
when chicken is done. Have ready frying 



POULTRY AND GAME 99 

in which are two or three tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter well heated; into this put the chicken, 
season, let it brown on both sides, then pour 
in the gravy, add salt and pepper, and let it 
boil up. Take hot biscuit, break open, place 
on a warmed platter and pour over them the 
chicken and gravy. If preferred, the gravy can 
be thickenend by mixing a large teaspoonful 
of flour with a tablespoonful of cream, after 
which add a little more milk; stir into the 
gravv and allow it to cook for fe\v moments. 

MRS. H. S. BALL. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Three large chickens boiled carefully until 
at the last only a little over one-half pint of 
-water in which they were boiled is left. Season 
while boiling. Remove from bones in not too 
small pieces. To make the cream, take two 
large tablespoonfuls of butter and three of 
flour. Melt butter and stir in flour gradually; 
let it cook to a froth, stirring to prevent burn- 
ing. Add gradually the chicken liquor, then 
half pint of thick cream. Season and remove 
from stove. This cream mixture should be 
much thicker than ordinary white sauce as 
thick as mayonnaise before lemon or vinegar 
is added. If not thick enough, add a little 
more flour to the cream and stir. Butter a 
baking dish, in the bottom put a layer of 
chicken, then a portion of a can of drained 
mushrooms, then small bits of butter, then 
layer of cream sauce; proceed in this way until 
all materials are used. A layer of sliced egg- 
scan be used. Cover all with cream sauce, put 



100 POULTRY AND GAME 

bits of butter over top and brown in the oven. 

MRS, A. SHAW, Hollister. 

CURRY CHICKEN AND RICE. 

Cut up the chicken, add a few thin slices of 
salt pork, an onion, a little salt, and cold wa- 
ter enough to cover. Boil slowly till quite 
tender and the water simmered away. Mix a 
tablespoonful of curry powder in a little wa- 
ter, stir this with the gravy, and let stew with 
the chicken a few minutes. Have ready some 
boiled rice moulded in cups; turn out, and set 
around the chicken when dished. 

MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

STEWED CHICKEN. 

Clean and cut up a fat young hen; put in a 
sauce-pan, cover with boiling water, add salt 
and pepper, and boil until tender. When done 
stir in a teacupful of cream thickened with 
a tablespoonful of flour, or drop in noodle and 
cook ten minutes. If noodles are added care 
must be taken that stew has not become too 
dry. MRS. L. H. GARRiars. 

NOODLES. 

3 eggs, 

1 pt. of flour, 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Sift flour and salt together. Beat eggs, 
and mix with flour into a stiff dough. Roll 
very thin and dry one hour. When dry, 
sprinkle with flour, fold, or roll like roll jelly 
cake and cut into fine shreds. Drop into chicken 
.stew, cover tightly and cook ten minutes. 

MRS. L. H. GARRIGUS. 



POULTRY AND GAME 10J 

CHICKEN JUMBOLE. 

First parboil the chicken, having cut it in 
pieces; when thoroughly done, take a dripping 
pan and put four or five pieces of breakfast 
bacon, cut very thin, with pieces of chicken in- 
to the pan; add pieces of butter here and there 
and season with salt and pepper. Cover 
chicken with plenty of freshly cooked rice, over 
which pour stewed tomatoes, then liquor in 
which the chicken was cooked, and bake until 
chicken is well done. , Oakland. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Prepare a young chicken as for broiling; 
season; have ready a very hot frying pan or 
spider into which put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Flatten chicken into the pan, cover with 
a lid, or a heavy earthen plate small enough 
to fit inside of pan, and place a weight on the 
cover. When chicken is thoroughly browned 
on under side, turn, and in like manner brown 
the other side, being careful to cover closely. 
Cook from twenty to thirty minutes. Just be- 
fore taking up add as much more butter. 
Place on a dish and pour the brown butter it. 
Garnish with parsley or water cress. 

MRS. L. H. GARRIGUS. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut chicken in small pieces; nearly cover 
with hot water and boil till tender. Remove 
chicken to a baking pan, and thicken the gra- 
vy with one large spoonful of flour and one 
spoonful of butter mixed together with a little 
cream. Add one-half of a small green onion 
minced fine, salt and pepper, then pour this 



102 POULTRY AND GAME 

-over the chicken; cover with nice pastry and 
bake. MRS. W. V. MCGARVEY. 

ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

Wipe thoroughly with a damp cloth, (nev- 
er put into water), rub over with butter, cover 
top and sides with a thick paste of flour and 
water half an inch deep. Lay a coarse paper 
over all and put to roast with one cupful of 
hot water in the dripping pan. Keep oven 
well heated, basting every fifteen minutes with 
butter and water. Twenty minutes before 
serving remove paste and paper and dredge 
with flour; baste with butter until of a light 
brown. Strain gravy into a pan (there should 
be a pint), and thicken with one tablespoonful 
of browned flour, add two tablespoonfuls of 
currant jelly, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
one-half tea-spoonful of salt and a dash of cay- 
enne pepper. MRS. JAMES C. MENOR. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Split at the back. Broil over a hot fire, 
basting often with butter. When done, add a 
little more butter, season, and place for a mo- 
ment in the oven. Serve on thin slices of but- 
tered toast, with currant jelly. 

MRS. GIBBS 

QUAIL ON TOAST. 

Split down the back, fry in butter, and sea- 
son. Take one tablespoonful of roux, one-half 
glass of water, one-half glass of wine, and 
let it boil up. Add birds, simmer fifteen min- 
utes and serve 'on toast. -MRS. C. F. BARKER 



POULTRY AND GAPIE 103 

CLUB HOUSE PIGEON STEW. 

After thoroughly cleaning one dozen pig- 
eons (or less), fry in butter or sweet oil to a 
nice brown being careful not to burn them. 
Take out and put into another sauce-pan. 
Fry a small onion in butter from which birds 
were taken, pour onion and butter in with the 
birds, add chopped parsley, salt, pepper, sage, 
thyme and marjoram to taste, claret and wa- 
ter enough to cover birds and -cook gently un- 
til tender; then add one can of mushrooms 
and a cupful of strained tomatoes. Fifteen 
minutes before serving remove pigeons to a 
platter and add to gravy dumplings that 
have been previously made. (Be sure there is 
plenty of stock in sauce-pan before adding 
dumplings, else they will burn.) Cover and 
boil fifteen minutes, then pour over pigeons 
Any kind of game can be substituted for pig- 
eons. MIJS. E. WILLIAMS. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Drop a few pieces of chicken at a time into 
a sufficient quantity of boiling lard to cover 
well, and turn frequently until done. In other 
words, cook the same as Saratoga chips. (Po- 
tatoes). MRS. B. L. HOLLENBECK: 

When any of these 
recipes call for 

MEATS OF ANY KIND 

Come to 

GRIFFIN BROS. 

Dealers in Beef, Mutton, Pork, 

Sausage, Ham, Bacon, Lard, etc. SALINAS 



Salads 



''To make a perfect ?alad there should l>e a spendthrift for 
oil, a miser for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a mad cap to 
stir the ingredients up and mix them well together." SPANISH 
PROVERB. 

Always use white pepper in preference to 
black. 

Lemon or lime juice can be substituted for 
vinegar and is preferable. 

In using lettuce leaves use only the white 
crisp leaves and keep on ice until just before 
serving. 

Marinate cut meats for salad with French 
dressing. 

Use a forcing bag to put mayonnaise dress- 
ing over individual salads. A forcing bag can 
be made of heavy paper made into a corne- 
eopia, putting the point off a very little; put 
mayonnaise into bag and squeeze through 
opening. 

The yolks of hard boiled eggs pressed 
through a sieve on to mayonnaise dressing- 
after it is on the salad makes a pretty addi- 
tion. 

An oil dropper can be made by using 1 a 
bottle with a quill inserted in the cork, allow- 
ing oil to drop through that. 

Serve gelatine salads in brick form by 
moulding in small paper boxes. 



SALADS 105 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

1 chicken, minced fine, 
% chopped celery, 
4 hard boiled eggs chopped. 
Boil chicken until tender; when cold add 

celery and the chopped eggs. Mix thoroughly 

and add the following dressing: 

1 cupful vinegar, 

Y 2 cupful whipped cream, 

2 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful dry mustard, 

1 teaspoonful of black pepper; 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful of sugar, 

Butter size of an egg, 

Dash of cayenne pepper. 
Heat eggs well, add vinegar, salt, pepper, 
sugar, mustard and butter, and boil till thick. 
When cold add the whipped cream and pour 
over the chicken, etc. Garnish with crisp white 
lettuce. MKS. W. V. MrGAin EY. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take two parts mayonnaise to one part 
cold liquid aspic jelly; beat together, decorate 
and line individual patty pans with the beaten 
mixture, fill up with sh reded chicken dressed 
with Remoulade sauce, a few slices of stoned 
olives, then cover with some of the beaten mix- 
ture. Let stand, turn out on a bed of shred- 
ded lettuce and garnish with anchovies and 
gherkins. 

Remoulade sauce: Pounded hard boiled 
yolks of eggs rubbed through sieve, mixed with 
oil, vinegar, dry mustard, salt, minced onion, 
and chopped parsley. MRS. Dix, Oakland. 



106 SALADS 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Two cans of shrimps washed and dried, 
small pieces of white tender celery chopped fine, 
four heads of white lettuce cut fine and sprin- 
kled with a little pepper. (Wash lettuce in 
salt water and dry thoroughly before cutting'). 
Add following mayonnaise dressing, mix well, 
and garnish with sliced lemon and hard boiled 
eggs. 

Dressing: Beat yolks of three fresh eggs 
with half teaspoonful of salt until thoroughly 
smooth. Add a pt. of good olive oil (a few 
drops at a time), taking care to blend each 
portion of it with the eggs before adding more. 
Dilute with juice of one lemon until of the con- 
sistency of thick cream. (Eggs and oil should 
be kept in a cold place a half hour or more be- 
fore using). MRS. J. P. Lauritzen. 

CRAB SALAD. 

To the meat of one crab picked apart, add 
tw T o hard boiled eggs, chopped fine, a little 
celery sliced thin, also tender part of lettuce. 
Mix with cooked salad dressing and serve on 
lettuce leaves w r ith a piece of lemon. 

MRS. H. E. KENT. Pacific Grove. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Cook a quart of oysters, (either fresh or 
canned), in their own liquor; let come to a 
boil, then skim and strain. Season oysters, 
with 

3 tablespoonfuls 3f vinegar, 

1 tablespoonful of oil, 

l / 2 teaspoonful of salt, 

A dash of pepper. 



SALADS 107 

Place on ice or in a cool place for two 
"hours. Cut up two bunches of celery, or more, 
using only the tender part, and when ready to 
serve mix with the oysters, adding about one- 
half pt. of the following mayonnaise dressing. 
Arrange in a salad dish and pour over anoth- 
er half pt. of dressing and garnish with white 
celery leaves. 

Boiled mayonnaise: 

4 tablespooiifuls of butter, 

1 tablespoonful of flour, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

1 tablespoonful of sugar, 

1 tablespoonful of mustard, 

1 cupful of milk, 

% cupful 01 vinegar, 

A pinch of cayenne, 

3 eggs. 

Let butter get hot in a saucepan, add 
flour and stir until smooth, being careful not 
to brown. Add milk and boil up, placing 
saucepan in another of hot water. Beat eggs, 
salt, pepper, sugar and mustard together, and 
add vinegar; add this to the boiling mixture, 
stirring until it thickens like soft custard, 
(about three minutes). 

MRS. J. P. LAURITZP:N, 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Pick meat apart and allow two parts meat 
to one part diced celery. Season with salt, 
pepper and tarragon vinegar; cover with 
mayonnaise and garnish with slices of hard 
boiled egg. 

No. 2. Equal quantities of diced lobster 
and diced boiled potatoes, mixed with cream 



108 . SALADS 

salad dressing. Garnish with hard boiled 
eggs, also in dice. MRS. JACKSON, St. Louis. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Mix together equal parts of diced celery 
and cold cooked chicken. Add one-fourth the 
amount of broken walnut meats and a few 
green grapes from which the seeds have been 
removed Marinate with a French dressing very 
delicately flavored with onion. Have ready 
sour oranges cut into sections; remove care- 
fully all seeds. Lay only lettuce leaves on 
each plate and two sections of orange; put a 
large tablespooiiful of the salad on each plate 
and cover with mayonnaise. 

MRS. E. WILLIAMS. 

WOLDORF SALAD. 

2 large, ripe, tart apples, 

2 bunches crisp, white celery, 

2 dozen English walnuts. 

1 large bunch fine, white lettuce. 
Chop apples, celery and walnuts quite fine, 
and mix all together, salt liberally and mix 
with mayonnaise dressing. Serve in lettuce 
leaf cups with spoonful of mayonnaise dressing 
on top. MRS. L. H. GARRIGUS. 

BANANA SALAD. 

One-half banana sliced to each lettuce leaf, 
with a small tablespooiiful of mayonnaise over 
it. MRS. J- B. BENNETT. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Select good tart apples. Pare and chop 
fine, adding a very little sugar to prevent turn- 
ing dark, also a little celery. Serve on lettuce 



SALADS 109 

leaves and cover with mayonnaise dressing. 
May be varied by adding a few walnut meats, 
figs, or dates, or a few of each. 

MRS. F. D. McPHERSON, Santa Cruz. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD. 

Form a cup of two firm, white lettuce 
leaves, fill with strawberries and drop a spoon- 
ful of mayonnaise on top of berries. 

MRS. J. F. BIRLEM, S. F. 

CHERRY SALAD. 

Take large, plump cherries, remove stones, 
and fill centers with marinated nuts, chopped. 
Serve in apple shells, or pile on lettuce leaves 
and place mayonnaise dressing on top. If 
served in apple shells, put dressing in bottom 
of shells, put in cherries, place dressing on top 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Miss ALLEN, Nevada. 

VEGETABLE SALAD-ASPIC JELLY. 

Tsf three pints clear soup stock, two oun- 
ces of gelatine that has been softened in cold 
water. Put into a saucepan 

1 tablespoonful of catsup, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, 
% tablespoonful of white pepper, 
1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
A little celery salt, 

And if you choose, a wine glass of white 
wine. Set it over a slow fire, stirring till it 
boils, and let it cook slowly for a few minutes; 
set aside to settle, strain through a coarse 
cloth or sieve, and when partially cold begin 

Go to Krough's Drug Store for your fine Perfumes 



110 SALADS 

to fill the mould. Boil one carrot, one pota- 
to, one turnip, one beet, two celery knob's and 
salt, also a slice of boiled ham, all cut in fancy 
shapes, scatter through the jelly and leave 
over night to harden. When ready to serve, 
turn on a bed of lettuce leaves, and surround 
with salad dressing. Mushrooms fried and 
cut in small pieces can also be used in place of 
vegetables, and so you can use chicken. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Any kind of cold vegetables, not cut too 
fine, may be used; peas, string beans, cauli- 
flower, asparagus tips and beets, combined 
with celery or used by themselves. Garnish 
dish on which salad is served and pour over 
any good salad dressing. 

MRS. E. WHITE, S. F. 

RUSSIAN SALAD. 

Soak two heaping teaspoonfuls of gelatine 
in a little cold water for a few minutes, add 
two teacupfuls boiling water, one small tea- 
spoonful of salt, a few drops of celery extract, 
and cook a few minutes. Put aside to cool 
and when partially set, wet a mould, put in 
alternately, a layer of gelatine and a layer of 
any cold A^egetables cut in pieces, finishing 
with a layer of tomatoes. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 

MRS. J. M. THOMAS, Grass Valley. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

One quart of canned tomatoes without any 
solid pieces. Soak one-half package of gela- 



SALADS lit 

tine in a little of the tomato juice. Scald re- 
maining portion of tomatoes, add gelatine 
and stir until dissolved. Season with salt and 
cayenne pepper. Fill teacups a third full of 
the mixture, and set in a cold place over night 
to harden. Line individual salad dishes with 
nice crisp lettuce leaves; turn a ''tomato'' 
into each and serve with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Miss OLIVE JENNE, Santa Cruz. 

TOMATOES WITH CELERY. 

Select firm tomatoes of good size, and 
after cutting a slice from the top of each, 
scoop out all th'e seeds and soft pulp, being 
careful not to break the sides. Cut celery into 
small dice, mix with mayonnaise dressing and 
fill shells with mixture. Place a teaspoonful 
of mayonnaise dressing on the top of each to- 
mato, and serve individually on a plate gar- 
nished with small lettuce leaves. 

MRS. C. F. LACEY. 

TOMATOES WITH DRESSING. 

Five small teaspoonfuls of mustard, four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, small teaspoonful of 
salt, three tablespoonfuls melted butter or 
olive oil. Beat this first, then add four eggs 
well beaten, twelve tablespoonfuls of milk. 
tw r elve tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Steam over 
boiling water until it thickens. This is very 
nice dressing for tomatoes. Skin tomatoes 
and serve whole with a spoonful of dressing OH 
each tomato. MRS. H. SAMUELS. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Chop crisp cabbage very fine and pour 



112 SALADS 

over it a dressing made of the 
Yolks of three eggs. 
3 tablespoonfuls of mixed mustard. 
3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
3 tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 
2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 

1 dessert spoonful of flour. 

Mix well together, pour into a cup of boil- 
ing vinegar and cook until it thickens, stir- 
ring all the time. MRS. M. R. MEKRITT. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Take firm, round tomatoes of equal size. 
cut slice off from stem end and scoop out the 
inside, being careful not to break the shell. 
Sprinkle inside of shells with salt, then invert 
for a time to drain. Take equal quantities 
of sliced cucumber, celery and the firm portion 
of the tomato pulp, mix, season, fill shells and 
place mayonnaise dressing on top. Serve on 
lettuce leaves. MRS. CHAS. ROSENDALE, 

Pacific Grove. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

'2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
1 egg, pepper and salt, 

1 teaspoonful of mustard, 
1 small teaspoonful of butter. 
Mix all together, place on the stove and 
stir all the time until it boils. Pour hot over 
chopped cabbage. This mixture should be 
smooth like boiled custard. 

MRS. WM. SUTT.ON, Pacific Grove. 

TOD UTAH "AI/C" TAKE KROUQH'S HEAD- 

rUn HL&U AlVt ACHE POWDERS 



SALADS 113 

NASTURTIUM SALAD, 

First sprinkle flowers at night-fall so that 
every particle of dust is washed away. Early 
in the morning while the dew is on, gather the 
latest blossoms and tenderest leaves, and put 
in a cool place until wanted. Prepare a dress- 
ing as follows: 

14 cupful of vinegar, 

1 teaspoonful of mustard, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

Yolks of three eggs, 

Butter size of an egg. 

Mix and cook until thick. When cool add 
a cupful of whipped cream. Serve by placing 
the flowers and leaves on plates and adding 
one teaspoonful of dressing. 

MRS. G. S. HAMILTON, Pacific Grove. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Four large potatoes boiled with skins on. 
(, 1 ut, slice, marinate, and add a large table- 
spoonful of fried onion, not browned, and four 
tablespoonfuls chopped fried ham or bacon. 
Use boiled dressing. For all vegetable salads 
use boiled dressing. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil eight large potatoes, throwing into 
the water one-half teacupful of salt. When 
perfectly cold peel and cut into small disks and 
add one-half the quantity celery, lettuce or 



cabbage. 



DRESSING. 

Yolks of six hard boiled eggs. 

. 



114 SALADS 

Raw yolks of two eggs, 

1 teaspoonful made mustard, 

1 teaspoonful of salt,- 

1 tablespoonful of minced onion, 

1 tablesdoonfnl of sugar, 

8 tablespoonfuls of salad oil. 

2 tablelpoonfuls celery seed, 

Less than one-half cupful of vinegar. 
Chop whites of eggs and add to the dress- 
ing. Half this quantity is enough for eight or 
ten people. MRS. C. F. LACEY. 

POTATO SALAD. 

6 potatoes, 

2 eggs, 

1 cupful of oil, 

4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 

1 teaspoonful of French mustard, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

1 small onion. 

Few leaves of parsley. 

Beat eggs; add oil by degrees; vinegar in 
same manner; then salt and mustard. Place 
on stove in a small auce-pan and stir till 
thick; do not boil. Slice potatoes very thin, 
mix in the chopped onion and parsley and 
cover with the dressing. Garnish with crisp 
lettuce. MRS. L. H. GARRIGFS. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes, cut in half 
and remove yolks. To the yolks add one 
tablespoonful of olive oil, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, one scant tablespoonful of dry mus- 
tard, one teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne 
pepper and three tablespoonfuls of minced 



SALADS 115 

foam. Mix all to a paste. Fill each half white 
with paste, place on lettuce leaves and serve 
with boiled dressing. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes; remove 
shells. Cut in halves and remove jolks. If 
necessary slice a little off the ends of the whites 
.so they will stand on a platter. Make a bed 
of parsley on the platter before placing the 
white. Mash yolks, add one teaspoonful of 
mustard, one teaspoonful of butter or oil, pep- 
per, salt, a little vinegar, and enough cream or 
rich milk to make the right consistency. Just 
before serving pile mixture in the white. 

MRS. F. MAY, Soquel. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

( Basis ff'r many Salads). 

One-half package of gelatine soaked in one- 
half cupful of cold water for a few minutes, one 
and one-half pts. of hot soup stock (or two tea- 
spoonfuls of beef extract to one and one-half 
pts. boiling water) stirred into the gelatine, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful 
vinegar, a little cayenne and paprika, and if 
liked, two tablespoonfuls sherry wine may be 
used. Mix well and pour into a wet pan or 
mould and place in cold water to cool. (Needs 
no cooking). To remove salads made with 
aspic jelly, warm bottom of pan with a cloth 
dipped in hot water. If to be cut into shapes, 
dip cutter into boiling water. 

Miss WHITAKER. 

Mason's Bazaar for Kodaks, Films 



116 SALADS 

APPLE OR TOMATO CUPS. 

(For Serving Salads). 

Cut slice from stem end of fruit and with 
a spoon remove pulp, being careful not to 



break the shells. Select firm fruit, of same 
and shape. Apples should be a red variety. 
MRS. A. W. ANDERSON. Pacific Grove. 

SALAD DRESSING BOILED. 

One pint of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of 
salt put on together and boil up. Weaken 
vinegar with water if too strong. Take one 
tablespoonral butter, scant, two tablespoon- 
fuls white sugar, two tablespoonfuls dry 
mustard, one-half cupful rich sour cream 
and mix all together to form a cream. 
Add six beaten eggs, into this gradu- 
ally pour the boiling vinegar; return to fire, 
cook until the consistency of boiled custard; 
strain, and add one-half cupful thick semi- 
cream that has been whipped. Put away in 
in jar. with glass cover. MRS. J. B. BEKNETT. 

CREAM SALAD ,4>;;i>;>iiNii. 

1 cupful of thick cream whipped until 
quite thick, 

1 teaspoonfnl of mustard, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, 
% teacupful of sugar. 
% teacupful of vinegar, 
Dash of cavenne. 

t- 

Mix vinegar, sugar, salt, pepper and mus- 
tard together and stir into the cream. Lemon 
juice can be used instead of vinegar. 

Miss MAY L. D. BALDWIN. Santa Cruz. 



SALADS 117 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Put into a bowl a little salt, pepper, and a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard then add a little 
oil and beat well for a few minutes. Break two 
t'o-o-s and beat; keep adding oil until the right 
thickness, then vinegar drop by drop to taste. 
The stirring should be continuous, and when 
properly made the mayonnaise will have 
smoothness and consistency of richest cream. 

MRS. HARVEY ABBOTT. 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

(For Lettuce). 

One cupful of sour cream beaten up with a 
whisk. Sprinkle in about a tablespoonful of 
sugar, and towards the end of the beating add 
a very little lemon juice, not more than a tea- 
spoonful. MRS. M. E. LAWREY, Pacific Grove. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

1 teaspoonful of mustard, 
Y 2 teaspoonful of salt, 
1 teaspoonful of sugar, 
Yolks of two eggs. 

Stir all together smoothly, then add 
5 tablespoonfuls of milk, 
5 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Butter size of an egg. 

Heat in double boiler until like cream but 
do not let it remain until it curdles; add whites 
of the two eggs beaten to a stiff froth and 
beat in while hot. 

MRS. 0. S. TRIMMER, Pacific Grove. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

1 tablespoonful of mustard, 



118 SALADS 

1 tablespoonful of flour, 

1 egg well beaten, 

l / 2 cupful of sweet milk, 

A pinch of salt. 

Mix together and cook until thick in a 
double boiler. While hot add one teaspoonful 
of butter and oil to taste. Thin with vinegar 
and strain, add a little cayenne, and just be- 
fore mixing the salad add one-half cupful of 
sweet cream beaten stiff. To one can of sal- 
mon add same bulk of celery or lettuce; to one 
pt. of chicken add one qt. of celery or lettuce 
cut, not chopped. 

(The late) MRS. L. K. BALDWIN, 

Santa Cruz. 

COOKED DRESSING. 

1 teaspoonful sugar, 

% teaspoonful mustard, 

Y 2 teaspoonful salt, 

Yolks of two eggs, 

Butter size of walnut, 

6 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Mix sugar, mustard, salt, add butter and 
milk and put in double boiler to heat. When 
hot, pour on to the beaten yolks, stirring all the 
time; return to stove and cook until like thick 
cream, stirring to prevent curdling. Just be- 
fore using add lemon juice to taste. 

NELLIE M. BALL, San Jose, 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 
1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 
% teaspoonful of salt, 
% teaspoonful of pepper, 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT- 



SALADS I IV 

MARINATING. 

For fish salads put two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar and one of oil over the fish three 
hours before using. Drain off carefully 
before preparing salad. For vegetable salads 
use two tablespoonfuls vinegar and one tea- 
spoonful of oil and drain carefully. 

MKS. J. B. BENXETT. 



WE HANDLE THE LARGEST 
AND BEST ASSORTMENT OF 

COOKING and HEATING 
STOVES 

in Monterey County. 

Our Steel Ranges 

are elegant Qil an j Gasoline StOVCS 



of the best manufacture 
always on hand . 



Department is strictly up-to-date, 
and prices as low as possible. 

ANDERSON & DAUGHERTY 

261 262 Main street Telephone Main 106 



Mason's Bazaar for Stationery, etc. 



120 SALADS 



Vegetables 



*'Nu\v {food digestion waits on appetite-" MACBETH. 

Fresh vegetables will break or snap crisply, 
After washing vegetables allow them to 
remain in cold water for half an hour before 
cooking; it will freshen and improve them 
greatly. This is particularly necessary with 
cabbage and cauliflower as it draws out all 
insects that may be imbedded in the leaves. 

To cook vegetables, put krto boiling water 
slightly salted, and boil steadily until done. 
Do not allow them to remain in water after 
they are done, but drain at once. 

All vegetables, unless it be string beans, 
should be served immediately after they are 
cooked 

To drain summer squash, pour off water, 
turn into a jelly bag and squeeze out water; 
after draining off water, take a saucer or plate 
that will fit, well into the cooking pan, place 
over squash and press. 

After boiling and draining potatoes shake 
on stove to remove all moisture. If not to be 
served immediately put on back of the stove, 
lay over the pot two or three thicknesses of 
cloth and replace cover. This keeps potatoes 
dry and prevents sogginess. 



VEGETABLES 121 

TIME; TABLE FOR COOKING 
VEGETABLES. 

New potatoes, 20 inins. Asparagne, 20 mins. 

Potatoes, boiled, 30 inins. Spinach, 20 to 30 mins. 

Potatoes, baked, 45 minf. Tomatoes, (fresh), 45 mins. 

Sweet potatoes, boiled, 45 mins. Tomatoes, (canned), 30 mine. 
Sweet potatoes, baked, 1 lir. Cabbage, 45 mine, to 2 hrs. 
Squash, boiled, 25 mins. Cauliflower, 20 to 30 mine. 

Squash, baked, 45 mins. Onions, 1 to 2 hrw. 

Green pea?, boiled. 20 to 30 uiin. Beets, 1 toSbrs. 
Shell beans, boiled, 1 3^ to 2 % lir Turnips, 45 mina. to 1)4 I' 1 ' 8 - 
String beans, boiled, 2^ hrs. Parsnips and carrots, 45 mins^ 
Green corn, boiled. 20 ruins. Vegetable oysters, 45 mins. 

A QUICK PREPARATION OF POTATOES. 

Peel and cut into small squares, or pieces 
of equal size, raw potatoes: slice in one-fourth 
as much onion, two green peppers, and add 
boiling water to cook. When nearly done add 
a little sweet milk, salt and pepper, and a lib- 
eral piece of butter. Thicken with a little flour 
rubbed in milk or water. They will be ready 
in fifteen minutes. Verv nice. 

MRS. W. J. HILL. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Put a layer of sliced raw potatoes in the 
bottom of a baking dish, 'sprinkle with pepper 
and salt and place some pieces of butter on 
top; then another layer of potatoes with pep- 
per, salt and butter, and so on until you have 
the amount required. Dissolve a pinch of so- 
da in enough milk to nearly cover potatoes 
and pour over them; cover and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. 
MRS. A. W! ANDERSON, Pacific Grove. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 
Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice. Put 



122 VEGETABLES 

into a saucepan one tablespoonful of butter 
and one onion sliced. Shake until onion is a 
golden brown. Throw in potatoes so that 
each piece will come in contact with the butter. 
Toss and cook until every piece is carefully 
browned. Serve at once. 

Miss F. G. WOODCOCK. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Put one tablespoonful of butter into a fry- 
ing pan and when it bubbles add one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, stirring well. Add gradually one 
cupful of cream or milk, and season. Into 
this pour one pint of cold boiled potatoes cut 
into small dice and cook until thoroughly hot. 

MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

BEETS. 

Take young beets, cut off leaves close ta 
beet, being careful not to cut the beet: leave 
the root on as cutting it makes the beet bleed 
and causes it to lose its sweetness. Boil for an 
hour or until tender; drain off water and rub 
the skins from the beets. Slice in thin slices; 
put a layer of beets into a vegetable dish, add 
salt and pepper, and pieces of butter, another 
layer of beets seasoned, and so 011 until all are 
used. Place in hot oven a few minutes before 
sending to table. Must be served hot. Any 
remaining over from dinner can be put into 
vinegar. MRS. PI. S. BALL. 

TO CAN CORN. 

Cut fresh green corn from the cob and pack 
in glass fruit jars until the milk settles on top;, 
escrw on the tops, wrap each in a cloth, or put 



VEGETABLES 123 

fine hay between to prevent touching, place in 
a wash boiler, cover with cold water and boil 
three hours. Let them stand in the water to 
cool. Screw covers down tight when done boil- 
ing. MRS. W. J. HILL. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Tie in bunches and boil twenty minutes in 
salted water. Serve to each person in sauce 
dishes, with mayonnaise dressing. Dip in 
sauce as eaten. MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

FRIED CELERY. 

Boil until nearly tender; then dip it into a 
mixture of egg and bread crumbs and fry in 
butter oi' oil. Miss. L. LAWREY, 

Pacific Grove. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Cut tender parts of celery in any length 
desired; scald in boiling water for ten minutes; 
drain in colander; put into saucepan, pour 
boiling water over to barely cover and stew 
until tender. .Drain; add one-half cupful 
of cream and let it just come to a boil, then 
skim out the celery. Beat up the yolks of two 
fo-o-s and add to sauce; let it boil until it 
thickens, then pour over the celery and serve. 
Miss L. LAWREY, Pacific Grove. 

CAULIFLOWER AND CHEESE. 

Cook cauliflower in salted water, cover 
with a drawn butter sauce, then with grated 
Eastern cheese, or Parmesan, and place in a 
hot oven until cheese is browned a little. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 



124 VEGETABLES 

EGG PLANT. 

Slice one-sixth of an inch thick and place 
in salted water for one hour. Press out water, 
dip in batter or crumbs and fry brown. Or, 
boil until tender in salted water, after paring. 
Mash, add two eggs and fry. 

MRS. C. F. BARKER. 

THREE WAYS OF COOKING CARROTS. 

Boil until tender, mash fine, season with 
salt and pepper, and lastly add a little cream 
and butter. 

After cooking slice lengthwise, dip in the 
following batter and fry until brown. Batter: 
One egg, three tablespoonfuls of milk, a little 
flour, salt and a pinch of baking powder. 
Beat well. 

When cooked, chop into coarse pieces, add 
milk, season with salt and pepper, add a small 
piece of butter and thicken with a little flour 
or corn starch. Cook a few minutes and serve. 

MRS. M. L. DEXTER. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Turn off nearly all of the juice from a can 
of tomatoes. Put a layer of bread crumbs in 
the bottom of a buttered dish; then a layer of 
tomatoes seasoned with pepper, salt and a lit- 
tle butter and sugar. Continue till dish is full, 
finishing with crumbs. Cover and bake until 
hot, then remove cover and brown. 

MRS. WM. SUTTOX, Pacific Grove. 

COOKED TOMATOES. 

Peel and cut in small pieces four large to- 
matoes. Put into a saucepan, add one-third 
cupful boiling water, small half teaspoonful 



VEGETABLES 125 

:salt, little pepper and cook one-half hour. 
Five minutes before serving add little butter, 
one tablespoonful sugar and one-half cupful 
bread crumbs. (Sufficient for six people). 

MRS. H. S. BALL. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Choose firm round tomatoes and cut them 
into thick slices; dust each slice with salt and 
pepper and place in a greased broiler and broil 
over a moderate fire. Then sprinkle each slice 
with a little minced onion and Chili pepper. 
Pour on melted butter when sending to the 
table. MRS. C. F. LACEY. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Boil until tender, drain and cut in halves, 
or leave whole if preferred; put in a dish, pour 
over them half cupful of cream or milk, sprin- 
kle with salt, and cover top with cracker 
crumbs; cut tablespoonful of butter in small 
pieces, put over top, and put into a quick oven 
until browned. MRS. F. B. DAY. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Boil one dozen onions in salted water until 
tender; drain off the water; add one pint of 
milk and two tablespoonfuls of butter. When 
they begin to boil, add a teaspoonful of flour 
wet up in a little milk. Season with salt and 
pepper. MRS. W. J. BLACK. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Take a firm head of cabbage, chop rather 
fine and cook in salted water from a half to 
three-quarters of an hour. Drain off water. 



126 VEGETABLES 

put in a piece of butter, season, and pour over 
enough cream or milk to almost cover cab- 
bage. Heat to boiling point and serve. This 
will be found a very nice way of cooking cab- 
bage, and many who do not like cabbage, 
relish it when prepared in this manner. Cold 
boiled cabbage may be used in this same way, 
heating the milk first, then adding cabbage. 
Let boil a minute or two, stirring occa- 
sionally. MRS. H. S. BALL. 

DAINTY CABBA'GE. 

Have a kettle of boiling hot water well 
salted. Take the nice hard center of a cab- 
bage, cut in quarters and boil just twenty min- 
utes; place in a covered dish and serve as soon 
as possible. To be eaten with butter and pep- 
per, or vinegar. MRS. C. F. BARKER. 

COLD SLAW. 

2 beaten eggs, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

% of a cupful of vinegar, 

A little pepper, 

1 pt. of sour cream. 

Mix together and stir constantly over 
stove until it thickens. Chop one-third of a 
head of cabbage very fine and stir into dress- 
ing while on the stove. When cold garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs sliced. MRS. HARVEY. 

HOT SLAW. 

Beat one egg well in a teacup and fill the 
teacup two-thirds full of vinegar. Add one 
cupful of sour cream, with sugar and salt to 
taste. When hot put in cabbage, shaved fine, 



VEGETABLES 

and boil five minutes. Serve immediately. 

MRS. H. M. JOHNSON. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

Wash, scrape, and boil in salted water 
forty-five minutes. Drain, mash, adding- but- 
ter and seasoning. Take milk, and some of 
the mashed oyster plant, (enough to thicken 
milk) and heat thoroughly. Serve as soup, 
with crackers. Or, take the mashed oyster 
plant, season, form into oysters, roll in crack- 
er crumbs and fry. MRS. H. S. BALL. 

BEANS (SPANISH). 

Boil any quantity of red or pink dried 
beans in plain water; no seasoning of any 
kind until done. To prepare them for the 
table, put into a hot frying-pan one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of fresh lard, into which 
stir a good sized sliced onion; fry until a little 
tender, when add one teacupful of canned or 
fresh tomatoes, (if the latter, allow to cook a 
little longer), and cook, stirring to prevent 
burning, until the raw flavor has gone, then 
add one and one-half pints of the beans, salt 
a,nd pepper to taste, and two green peppers 
sliced fine; the red Chili peppers will also do," 
fry until rather dry. MRS. W. J. HILL. 

BEANS (SPANISH). 

1 pint pink beans, 
3 slices bacon, 
1 good sized onion, 
3 Chili peppers, 
% cupful olive oil, 
% can tomatoes, 



128 VEGETABLES 

Garlic to suit taste, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Soak beans over night. Fry bacon. CHop 
onion and peppers and fry in bacon fat, then 
add tomatoes. Put all this on the beans, then 
add olive oil; cover with water, and cook five 
or six hours. When done, add three table- 
spoonfuls of grated cheese. 

MRS. E. B. RICH, Pacific Grox-e. 

PURE FOODS 

There is probably no place in 
the State where a more complete line 
of Pure Food Groceries maybe had 
than the well known Grocery and 
Department Store of San Francisco, 

SMITH'S CASH STORE 

25 Market street, near Ferry depot. 

No house takes greater pride and care in keeping 
standaards of quality up to high water mark. No need 
to buy inferior articles elsewhere, when the most select 
may be had at moderate prices. Forty p age catalogue 
cheerfully mailed any applicant. 

SMITHS' CASH (DEP'T) STORES, 

25 Market street, San Francisco, Cal. 



Mason's Bazaar for. Picture Frames 



Bread 



'The very staff of life: 

The comfort of the husband, the pride or the wife." 

DELICIOUS WHITE BREAD. 

Into a large bowl put three qts. of sifted 
flour, make a hole in the center and put in 
three heaping tea spoonfuls of sugar and good 
sweet, lard and two of salt. Into one and 
one-half pts. of milk pour one and one-half 
pts. of hot water. Dissolve one cake of com- 
pressed yeast in one cupful of lukewarm wa- 
ter: pour this into the flour and add the milk 
a little at a time until all is used. Stir it with 
a spoon until dough has lost some of its stick- 
iness, adding more flour when necessary. 
Knead thoroughly, using as little flour as 
possible, until the dough becomes soft and 
velvety. Remember the quality of your bread 
will depend largely upon your kneading. 
Knead it lightly and gently until it cleans 
from tlie bowl when it is done. Turn a milk 
pan over the bowl, cover the whole with cloth 
and stand it in a warm place over night. Ear- 
ly in the morning knead it down, turn it out 
on a bread board and divide into loaves. 
Place in a greased pan, cover and stand again 
in a. warm place until light. Prick each loaf 
with a fork, thus allowing any gas that may 
have formed underneath the crust to escape- 
There is as much art in baking as in making. 



130 BREAD 

The oven should be hot, but not hot enough 
to scorch. This quantity will make four good- 
sized loaves and a pan of rolls. 

MRS. V. D. BLACK. 

SALT RISING BREAD. (YEAST). 

Take one cupful of boiling water; into this 
put a pinch of soda, a little salt and when cool 
stir in enough middlings, (the coarser part of 
wheat), to make a very thick batter. Mix this 
in a pitcher, set in a kettle of warm.( not hot) 
water, keeping the temperature about the 
same, and set in a warm place to rise. Make 
this yeast at noon and it will be ready next 
morning to use for bread. "When ready to 
make the bread, take a deep dish into which 
put a pt. of flour; pour in the yeast, add a 
cupful of warm water and stir all well together. 
Cover with a tin and put in a warm place to 
rise. In about three- quarters of an hour it 
Avill be ready to knead into loaves. Knead as 
little as possible, using only just enough flour 
to keep the bread from sticking to the hands 
and board. Mould into loaves, place in 
greased tins, and let rise again, being careful 
to keep it warm. The secret in making this 
kind of bread is in keeping the yeast and the 
bread at an even temperature all the time. In 
about three-quarters of an hour the dough will 
be sufficiently light to bake. Bake in a hot 
oven. This will make two good-sized loaves. 

MRS. W. H. CLARK. 

COMPRESSED YEAST BREAD. 

Soak one cake of compressed yeast in cup- 
ful of warm water for half an hour; add one 
pt. of warm water, or warm new milk, one tea- 



BREAD 131 

{spoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
and one qt. of flour. Stir well together and 
'cover with a thin cloth and pat where it will 
keep warm. In two hours it should be very 
light, when just enough flour should be added 
to make it stiff enough to knead smoothly. If 
the flour is good it will mould in a few minutes 
; ntq a smooth soft dough, ready to be divided 
into loaves. These should be large enough to 
half fill the pans, and should be covered with 
a cloth and kept warm for an hour or longer, 
until pans are just rounding full. Bake in 
moderate oven from three-quarters of an hour 
to an hour, according to size of loaves. If 
loaves are rubbed over the top with nice but- 
ter, warmed just enough to soften it, before 
they begin to brown, crust will be tender and 
of a delicious color and flavor. When done 
turn out quickly; stand loaves on end, tipping 
ngainst pans where the air will strike them, as 
bread should cool as rapidly as possible. 
Cover only with a thin cloth until cold. If one 
wants bread quickly, all the flour may be 
kneaded with the yeast at once, moulding into 
loaves, and putting directly into pans to rise. 
It requires more kneading, but is very nice and 
very little trouble to make. 

MRS. A. W. ANDICRSON, Pacific Grove. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Peel and boil two large potatoes; when 
done, remove from water, mash well; sift over 
them one neaping tablespoonful of flour while 
still hot; mix and add one tablespoonful each 
of salt and white sugar, then slowly add water 
in which potatoes were boiled, stirring all the 



132 BREAD 

time. Put through a colander and when near- 
ly but not quite cold, stir in a cupful of yeast. 
One cake of compressed yeast can be used to 
make yeast the first time, after that always 
keep a cupful of old yeast to make new. One 
cupful of yeast will be sufficient for four loaves 
of bread. MRS. H. SAMUELS. 

RELIABLE YEAST. 

Boil a handful of loose hops in a qt. of wa- 
ter for one-half hour, or until strength is extrac- 
ted. Strain boiling hop water through a cloth 
upon a pt. of sifted flour, mixing thoroughly. 
When cold add cake of magic yeast dissolved 
in a little water. In the morning stir in sifted 
corn meal till of right consistency to knead. 
Make into a roll the size of a rolling pin and 
cut in slices one-third inch thick: dry in the 
air, turning twice a day until thoroughly dry. 
These yeast cakes will keep six months. 

MRS. E. B. CAHOON, Soquel. 

BREAD. 

Dissolve a cake of yeast and add flour to 
make a batter. Let is rise. Boil two pota- 
toes in a qt. of water, when soft drain off water 
and mash potatoes, then add potato water; 
when cool stir into the batter, cover and let 
stand over night. In the morning add pt. of 
w 7 arm water in which a lump of soda the size 
of a pea has been dissolved, a handful of salt 
and flour to make batter as stiff as can be 
stirred with a spoon. Cover and set in warm 
place to rise. When light, knead well, and let 
rise again. When light put into loaves, and 



BREAD 133 

after again rising bake for three-fourths of an 
hour. MRS. E. B. GABOON, Soquel. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 

1% pts. of flour, 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 

% teaspoonful of salt, 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

3 beaten eggs, 

1 teacupful of milk, 

A small amount of caraway seed. 
Work into smoooth dough with as little 
handling as possible, and rolling to thickness 
of a quarter of an inch. Cut into shapes of 
about two or three inches, wash over with 
milk when in baking pan, and bake in mod- 
erate oven. MRS. F. GATES. 

FRUIT LOAF. 

After bread dough has risen the first time 
take a piece about the size you would need for 
a loaf of bread; roll out on kneading board 
until riot more than an inch thick; spread 
dough with butter, over this spread seedless 
raisins, currants, or any fruit desired and 
sprinkle with a little sugar. Roll up tightly, 
knead into loaf, let it rise, then bake in hot 
oven. MRS. WM. BUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

RAISIN BREAD. 

1 yeast cake, 

1% cupfuls liquid (milk and water), 

% cupful sugar, 



cupful Sultana raisins. 



134 BREAD 

Mix like bread, beating thoroughly. Let 
it raise well, after which mould and put in tins. 
When raised again bake the same as bread. 

MRS. W. J. HAMILTON. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

1 pt. of milk, 

1 pt. of w r ater, 

1 cupful of yeast, 

% wheat and % graham flour, 

A little salt. 

Stir very stiff and let rise over night. In 
the morning stir again, and when light bake 
in slow oven one-four hour longer than wheat 
bread. MRS. R. L. PORTER. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

4 cupful s graham flour, 
1 cupful seeded raisins, 
1 cupful New Orleans molasses, 
1 teaspoonful soda mixed with syrup and 
sour milk to make thin batter, stiffer than 
ior batter cakes. 

MRS. F. N. NOBLE, Pacific Grove. 

BROWN BREAD. 

1 cupful of sour milk, 

2 cupfuls of sweet milk, 
% cupful of molasses, 

1 heaping teaspoonful of soda, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

2 cupfuls of flour, 

2 cupfuls of cornmeal. 

Steam three hours and bake in quick oven 
fifteen minutes. MRS, H. J, BALL, San Jose. 



BREAD 135 

BROWN BREAD. 

1 pt. of sour milk, 

1% cupfuls of molasses, 

2 teaspoonfuls of soda, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

2 l / 2 cupfuls of yellow corn meal, 

2 cupfuls of graham flour, 

1 cupful of stoned and chopped raisins. 
Butter empty baking powder cans and fill 

three-quarters full with this mixture, then 
steam three hours. 

MRS. H. M. STANTON, National City. 

BOSTON BROWN BR|3AD. 

2 cupfuls of Indian meal, 

2 cupfuls of rye meal sifted, 
1 cupful of flour, 
% cupful of molasses, 
4 cupfuls of sour milk, 

1 tablespoonful of soda. 
Boil or steam three hours. 

MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

BROWN BREAD. 

2 scant cupfuls corn meal, 
1 scant cupful flour, 

1 cupful boiling water poured over 

meal and flour; stir well and add 
% cupful of molasses, 
1 cupful sour milk, 
1 teaspoonful soda, 
A little salt. 

Beat well, steam two hours, then brown 
lightly in oven. MRS. H. H. MASON. 

Mason's Bazaar for Stationery, etc. 



136 BREAD 

COUSIN BETTY'S SOFT CORN BREAD. 

1 pt. of white corn meal, 
1 pt. of sweet milk, 
4 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful of butter, 

Scald meal; add butter first, then milk^ 
(and cold hominy or bread if you like it), and 
lastly eggs beaten separately. Grease baking- 
pan and put on stove to heat; then put in the 
mixture while dish is hot and stir constantly 
all the time for a minute to keep meal from 
settling at the bottom of the dish. Bake in 
hot oven from one-half to three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve immediately. This is very nice 
corn bread, fiut must be made with white 
meal, and stirred when put into baking pan to 
make it a success. MRS. H. W. SEALE. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of butter milk, 

1 large tablespoonful sour cream or 

hot lard, 
% cupful of sugar, 
legg, 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in but- 
termilk, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

A little wheat flour and corn meal enough 
to make a thin batter. If lard is used, heat in 
pan in which cake is to be baked and pour in- 
to batter the last thing. Mix thoroughly, and 
bake thirty minutes, or more, until well done. 

MRS. H. BREESE. 



Photo Supplies at Mason's Bazaar 



BREAD 137 

DELICIOUS CORN MUFFINS. 

Two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
beaten together. Add one and a half teacup- 
f u.ls of sweet milk, a half teaspoonful of salt, 
one teacupful of corn meal (white preferred), 
two cupfuls of flour, sifted with two heaping 
tea-spoonfuls baking powder, and last one ta- 
blespoonful of melted butter. 

A. J. ABBOTT. 



CORN MUFFINS. 

Warm the utensils to be used in mixing r . 
In the warmed bowl place half a pt. of corn 
meal, (white preferred), and add to it three- 
quarters of a cupful of scalding water; stir- 
well. Add -a small teaspoonful of butter, an 
even teaspoonful of sugar, half as much salt 
as sugar, and half a cupful of sweet milk. Add 
the milk, slowly stirring all the time. Add the 
yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der and the whipped white of an egg. Bake in 
.warmed muffin pans. 

MRS. CLARA L. HOUGHTON, Pacific Grove. 

, CORN MUFFINS. 

Place two cupfuls of milk on stove and 
when hot scatter in one heaping cupful of corn 
meal and cook until like custard, stirring con- 
stantly. Remove from stove; add one small 
teaspoonful of salt and stir until smooth. 
Mix in three he?) ping teaspoonfuls of unmelted 
shortening, add the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs, four if eggs are small, and lastly the 
whites beaten until stiff, adding about one- 
third at a time. Do not stir w r hile putting 



138 BREAD 

whites in, but fold in, by lifting and turning- 
batter with the spoon. No baking powder 
needed. Pour into hot, well greased tins, and 
bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

MRS. H. S. BALL. 

MUFFINS. 

1 egg, 

1 cupful of milk, 

1 teaspoonful of sugar, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
A pinch of salt. 

Beat eggs, salt and sugar thoroughly, add 
the milk, and flour to make a moderately stiff 
batter. Stir but little after putting in the 
flour. Have rings well greased and hot. Bake 
in quick oven. MRS. F. L. WALSH. 

MUFFINS. 

4 cupfuls of flour, 
4 eggs, 

2 cupfuls of mi-Ik, (not very full), 
% cupful of sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls of butter, 
4 teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, 
A little salt. 

Let it rise, then dip carefully into muffin 
tins and bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

WHEAT MUFFINS. 

1% cupfuls of sweet milk, 
2 eggs, 

1 tablespoonful of butter, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
% teaspoonful of salt. 



BREAD 139 

Flour sufficient to make a smooth batter. 
Bake in muffin rings in a hot oven. 

MRS. C. K. TUTTLE, Pacific Grove. 

CREAM MUFFINS. 

One pt. of flour sifted with one heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat together 
one pt. of cream and a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, add two beaten eggs, mix in flour and 
drop in buttered muffin rings. Bake quickly. 

MRS. F. GATES. 

SOUR CREAM MUFFINS. 

2 cupfuls of sour cream, 

A little salt, 

% teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little 

warm water, 

Enough flour to make a thick batter. 
This quantity will make sixteen muffins. 
MRS. J. W. STIRLING. 

TEA MUFFINS. 

Butter the size of an egg, 
% cupful of sugar, (scant), 
2 eggs, 

1% cupfuls of milk, 
1% teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
Flour to make a thin batter. 
Have muffin tins very hot and well greas- 
ed when batter is put in. MRS. FITZELL. 

RAISED MUFFINS. 

% cupful of milk, 

% cupful of water, 

1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful of butter, 



HO BREAD 

1 teaspoonful of sugar, 

1 saltspoon of salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls of potato yeast,, or 

% cake of compressed yeast. 
Warm the milk and water slightly, add the 
other ingredients with flour to make a batter 
somewhat thicker than for griddle cakes. Set 
to rise over night In the morning put in 
muffin rings with as little stirring as possible, 
put in a warm place to rise a little more, and 
bake in hot oven about twenty minutes. 

MRS. FT. SAMUELS. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

2 cupfuls of sour milk, 
1 teaspoonful of soda, 

1 tablespoonful of sugar, 
1 egg, a little salt, 
Graham flour to make a thin baLtter. 
Have muffin rings greased and very hot 
when batter is put in. Bake in a hot oven. 
MRS. H. J. BALL, San Jose. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cupful of graham flour and one cupful 
of sweet cream, (not too thick cream), warm 
the flour before mixing and bake in a very 
hot iron gem pan, in a verv hot oven. Do not 
open the oven door during the first part of 
baking. MRS. J. G. ARMSTRONG, JR. 

GRAHAM ROLLS. 

1 pt. of graham flour, 
1 pt. of wheat flour, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Sift together and rub in one tablespoonful 



BREAD U 

of cold lard; add three-fourths pt. of sweet 
milk and mix until smooth. Take out on a 
board and knead a little. Make into rolls the 
size of a large finger, lay in baking pan so 
they will not touch, wet with milk, and bake 
ten or twelve minutes. 

MRS. W. J. BLACK. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

One and one-half pts. flour, one-half pt. 
corn meal, (white), one teaspoonful salt, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, one tablespoon- 
ful lard, three-fourths pt. of milk. Sift togeth- 
er flour, corn meal, salt and powder; rub in 
cold lard, add milk, mix smoothly into rather 
firm dough. Flour the board, turn out 
dough, give it one or two turns to complete 
its smoothness. Divide it, thus prepared, into 
pieces size of an egg; again divide these in half, 
which roll out under the hand until they are 
long- and one-ha,lf the size of one's little finger. 
La} T on greased baking tin so they do not 
touch, wash over with milk, bake in hot oven 
seven or eight minutes. 

MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One pt. scalded milk poured on a table- 
spoonful of melted butter and same of sugar. 
When cool, add half a cup of compressed yeast 
dissolved in half a cupful of luke warm water; 
add flour to make a batter. If wanted for tea, 
mix in the morning after breakfast. At noon 
time, after it has risen, stir in more flour and 
knead quite stiff. Let it rise again for four 
hours. When light roll out and cut with bis- 
cuit cutter; rub them over with a little butter, 



142 BREAD 

fold like a turnover, place in pans and let them 
rise again. "When light place in a moderate 
oven and bake twenty minutes. 

MRS. E. M. HOAGLAND. 

MOYATES, OR SPANISH ROLLS. 

3 eggs, 

3 spoonfuls of brown sugar, 

3 spoonfuls of melted lard, 

1 teacupful of yeast, 

3 pts. of flour. 

Mix at night with one pt. of water, or 
more if necessary. Knead over next morning 
with one teaspoonful of soda, and let rise a lit- 
tle while; then make into biscuits and bake. 

MRS. W. H. SEALE. 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

One qt. flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one table- 
spoonful lard, one pt. milk. Sift together 
flour, salt and powder; rub in lard cold, add 
milk, and mix into smooth dough, easily han- 
dled without sticking to hands or board. 
Flour board, turn out dough and give it a 
quick knead or two to equalize it; then roll out 
w r ith rolling pin to thickness of one-half inch; 
cut out with large round cutter; fold one-half 
over the other by doubling it; lay them on 
greased baking sheet without touching. Wash 
them over with a little milk to glaze them. 
Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes- 

MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

GOTTEN ROLLS. 
When the bread is ready for pans take off 



BREAD 143 

the size of a loaf, add yolk of two eggs, one 
cupful of sugar, and one teaspoonful of soda. 
Beat soda with eggs and sugar, then add a cup- 
ful of lard. Roll out about an inch thick, 
spread with butter and sugar, cut out and fold 
over in shape of half moon, then let it get very 
light and bake. MRS. W. S. PIERSON. 

PUFFETS. 

1 qt. of flour, 

1 pt. of sweet milk, 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
l / 2 teaspoonful of salt, 
3 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls of white sugar, 
Butter size of an egg. 

Beat sugar, butter and yolks of the eggs 
till very light; add the milk and flour with the 
baking powder; lastly the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in gem pans in a 
quick oven. 

MRS. WM. SUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

POPOVERS. 

2 eggs, 

2 cupfuls of flour, 
2 cupfuls of milk, 
Pinch of salt. 

Bake in gem pans in hot oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. MRS. J. R. HEBBRON. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Beat two eggs very light, over which pour 
one cupful of sweet milk, one-third of a cupful 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
a little salt, two cupfuls of flour and three tea- 



144 BREAD 

spoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. Miss PERRY, Monterey. 

* RUSKS. 

1 pt. sweet milk, 
l / 2 pt. of yeast, 

% teaspoonful of salt, 
Flour to make a thin batter, 
Mix, and let it rise, then add 

1 small cupful of sugar, 

2 eggs, 

4 spoonfuls of melted butter or lard, 
Flour to kead. 

Let it rise again, knead, make into rolls 
and bake. MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

2 or 3 heaping tablespooiifuls of but- 

ter, 

4 teacupfuls of flour, little salt, 
1% teacupfuls of sweet milk, 
4 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Have butter very cold and hard, put into 
flour and rub wfth fingers until like bread 
crumbs; sift in baking powder and stir lightly, 
then add milk and mix with a knife or spoon 
as rapidly as possible. Turn out on floured 
board, do not knead, but make into shape 
quickly, and with as little handling as possi- 
sible. Roll about an inch in thickness, cut out 
with biscuit cutter and place in floured pan. 
Bake in very hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

MRS. H. S. BALL. 

SWEET BISCUITS. 
1 cupful of sour milk, 



LJREAD 145 

1 cupful of sour cream, 

2 cupful B of Golden C sugar, 
2 level teaspoonfuls of soda, 
2 teaspoonfuls of ginger, 

2 teaspoonful of salt, 
Flour. 
Make the batter as soft as you can knead 

c/ 

it. Knead lightly and as little as possible. 
Bake in moderately hot oven about one-half 
hour. MRS. GEO. ABBOTT. 

LIGHT BISCUIT FOR TEA. 

When giving your bread the last mixing 
take a piece of dough large enough to make a 
medium sized pan of biscuits, one tablespoon- 
ful butter, three tablespoorifuls of sugar and 
mix well. Let it rise; when light shape into 
biscuits and let rise again. Bake twenty min- 
utes in hot oven. MRS. THOS. RENISON. 

SOUR MILK BISCUITS. 

Four cupfuls of unsifted flour and one 
level teaspoonful of cream tartar sifted to- 
gether. Two large cupfuls of sour milk with 
one teaspoonful of soda stirred in. Two large 
tablespoonrals melted lard, or butter, (lard 
preferred). Mix and bake in hot oven. 

MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

RAISED BISCUIT. 

Dough as for one loaf, 
2 eggs, 

1 cupful of sugar, 
% cupful melted butter. 
Place dough on bread board, make a hol- 
low place in the center into which drop the 



146 BREAD 

eggs (not beaten), sugar, and melted butter 
(luke warm) stirring all this with a spoon; 
then mix with the dough kneading a long time. 
Make into biscuits, (do not cut but mould 
with the hands); put into pan and place where 
it is warm to rise. Cook with little less fire 
than for bread. MRS. C. CLAUSEN. 

ENGLISH BISCUIT. 

1% pts. of flour, 

1 cupful of cornstarch, 

2 heaping tea spoonfuls of baking pow- 

der, 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
1 large pinch of salt. 

Sift all together, then mix in three table- 
spoonfuls of lard; add one-half pt. of milk and 
one-half cupful of currants. Bake as for ordin- 
ary biscuit. IDA P. IVENS. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

One cake compressed yeast and two table- 
spoonfuls sugar creamed together; one and 
one-half cupfuls warmed milk. Scald milk, 
cool, and add to this one-fourth cupful more 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt. Mix in sifted 
warm flour until about like a dropped batter; 
add two eggs, not beaten, one-half cupful seed- 
less raisins, one-fourth cupful melted short- 
ning. Mix all together and beat about ten 
minutes. Cover and set in warm place to rise. 
Let rise until double its first size then beat 
down and put into pans about two inches 
deep. Let rise again to double its size and 
bake one-half hour in moderate oven. When 
baked brush over with beaten egg and return 



BREAD 147 

to oven for a few minutes. Put in a saucepan 
three tables poonfuls shortening, add one- 
fourth cupful sugar; when sugar is almost melt- 
ed add three tablespoonfuls flour and one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls cinnamon. Mix until 
smooth then spread over the cake. Return to 
oven for two or three minutes. The egg and 
above preparation can be put on bread just- 
before baking, if wished. Or can be put in lay- 
ers with batter and baked. 

MRS. R. L. PORTER. 

BUNS. 

Put in a pan a large tablespoonful of but- 
ter, a small cupful of sugar, a small cupful of 
yeast and a large cupful of new milk, then sift 
in a sifter of flour but do not stir it; let stand 
over night. In the morning add enough flour 
to knead well; let rise again, and about an 
hour before you want to bake, roll into buns 
with the hand; let rise an hour and bake twen- 
ty minutes. When done brush over with syrup 
and water. Currants may be added. 

MRS. W. 8. PIERSON. 

BUNS. 

One pt. milk, one large spoonful butter, one 
of lard, one egg, little salt, one cupful sugar. 
Mix, let come to a boil, and when cool add one 
cupful of yeast or three-fourths cake com- 
pressed yeast, and one cupful of raisins. This 
is prepared at supper time. When light stir in 
flour to make quite thick; let stand over night. 
Knead in flour to make stiff, rise again and 
make into rolls. These will be ready for lunch- 
eon. MRS. W. L. WEYMAXN. 



148 BREAD 

SWEET BUNS. 

3 Ibs. of bread sponge, 

% pt. of milk (hike warm), 
2 eggs, 

4 ounces of butter, 
4 ounces of sugar, 
Rounding teaspoonful salt, 

Even teaspoonful mace, or nutmeg 

grated. 

Add flour and mix together to a soft 
dough. Let it get very light, then mould into 
buns. Let it get real light again and bake 
in a very moderate oven. E. REINHARDT. 

GRAHAM BUNS. 

1 large cupful of buttermilk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, 

% cupful of sugar, 

% cupful of white flour, 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Enough graham flour to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Bake in hot gem pans. This amount fills 
pans once. Miss BREESE. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS. 
1 cupful of butter, 

1 cupful of sour milk, 
% cupful of sugar, 

% teaspoonful of soda. 
Make as stiff as possible with graham flour, 
roll very thin. MRS. E. L. BAKER. 

DUMPLINGS. (FOR STEWS). 

2 cupfuls of flour, 
1 beaten egg, salt. 

1 level tablespoonful of butter, 
1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 



BREAD 149 

Stir all together and add milk to make a 
batter a little softer than for biscuits. Drop 
in spoonfuls over the stew; cover and cook 
twenty minutes. MRS. II. L. PORTER. 

WAFFLES. 

2 eggs, a pinch of salt, 

2 cupfuls of milk, 

3 cupfuls of flour, 

3 even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter or 

lard. MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

RAISED WAFFLES. 

1% cupfuls of sweet milk, 

1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

3 large spoonfuls of yeast, 
Butter size of an egg, 
Flour to make a thin batter. 

Mix the milk, yeast, salt and flour at night. 
In the morning add the butter, melted, and 
the egg, and bake in hot waffle irons. 

MRS. R. L. PORTER. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

1 cupful of flour, 

1 cupful of whole wheat flour, 

1 tablespoonful of sugar, 

% cupful of yeast, a pinch of salt. 
Enough cold water to make a thick batter. 
Set over night. In the morning soak three 
slices of bread, or some stale cake, and beat 
thoroughly into the batter. Add one-half of a 
teaspoonful of soda, and bake on a hot griddle. 

MRS. E. G. Mo YES. 



150 BREAD 

BATTER CAKES. 

Pour one pt. of sour buttermilk into well 
beaten yolks of two or three eggs, add one 
teaspoonful white sugar, a little salt and two 
pts. of flour. Stir batter until perfectly light 
and smooth, then add one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in a little warm water; add whites of 
eggs last thing. Bake on very hot griddle. 

No. 2. At night mix thoroughly together 
1 pt. sour milk, 

1 pt. corn meal or graham flour, 
1 pt. wheat flour, 
A little salt, 

Next morning add one or two beaten eggs, 
1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in a little warm w r ater, and bake on very 
hot griddle. 

MRS. B. L. HOLLENBECK, Pacific Grove. 

FLANNEL CARES. 

Three cupfuls of flour, one tablespoonful 
brown sugar, teaspoonful salt, two heaping 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, two eggs, three 
cupfuls milk. Sift flour, sugar, salt and pow- 
der together; add beaten eggs aud milk; mix 
into smooth batter that will pour easily from 
pitcher; bake on hot griddle in cakes size of 
saucer. MRS. A. W. ANDERSON, 

Pacific Grove. 



Mason's Bazaar for Mat Boards. 



"Who'll dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie?" 

LONGFELLOW. 

In making a fruit pie, if the crust, after be- 
ing placed in the tin, is rubbed over with the 
white of an egg it will keep it from absorbing 
the juices of the fruit, and prevent it from be- 
coming soggy. 

To prevent the juice from running out of a 
pie, wet a narrow strip of cloth and tie around 
the edge of the pie before putting in the oven. 

Bake crust for lemon pies, etc., on the out- 
side of the pie tin allowing crust to extend 
well over the edge of the tin as it shrinks in 
baking. Set the tin on a small dish in oven to 
prevent the edge from coming in contact with 
the oven. When done, take off, invert crust 
and bake a few minutes longer. 

Use bread crumbs instead of flour for ab- 
sorbing juices in fruit pies. 

All pastry requires a very hot oven. 

Pastry flour is made by mixing four cup- 
fuls of bread flour with one cupful cornstarch. 

PASTRY FOR ONE PIE. 

1 heaping cupful of pastry flour, 
1 saltspoonful of baking powder, 
1 saltspooiiful of salt, . 

% of a cupful of lard, 
% of a cupful of butter. 
Mix salt and baking powder with flour and 



152 PIES 

rub in lard. Mix quite stiff with cold water. 
Roll out, put the butter on the paste in pieces 
size of beans, and sprinkle with flour. Fold 
over and roll to fit the plate. 

GOOD HOUSEKEEPING. 

PIE CRUST. 

1 teacupful of flour, 

% teaspoonful of salt, 

1 rounding tablespoonful of white cottolene 
or other shortening, as preferred. Rub short - 
ning into flour then stir in just enough cold 
water to hold ingredients together. This 
makes enough for a good sized one crust pie. 
The secret of good pie-crust is using as little 
water as possible, and getting the crust onto 
the tin with very little handling. 

MRS. I A. BALL, San Jose. 

SIMPLE PIE CRUST. 

Take a pie plate, oil it well, being sure 
that sides and bottom are well oiled; then 
sprinkle with corn-meal until the oil is well 
covered. Pour in your mixture and bake im- 
mediately. This is very simple, quickly made 
and is delicious. Miss L. LAWREY. 

OYSTER PATE SHELLS. PASTE. 

One part shortening butter and lard mixed 
to three of fine flour, a pinch of salt, a pinch 
of baking powder. Chop in a wooden bowl to 
a powder. Mix with iced water to proper con- 
dition to roll out, Cut circles same as for 
cookies, roll a, little more butter into remain- 
der, roll into a long strip, cutting circles as 
before, and with a smaller ring cut rounds out 



PIES 153 

of these, then pile these rings up on the whole 
pieces, wetting each layer with milk, to make 
them adhere, until the wall is high enough. Fill 
with creamed oysters or chicken, minced with 
mushrooms and olives. Bake one of the center 
pieces cut from rings, separately for each pate. 
Handle as little as possible. Bake empty, and 
if to eat cold, cool before filling; if not add hot 
contents just before serving and place the small 
baked pieces on top of each pate. F. J. B. 

PUFF PASTE. 

1 Ib. of flour, 

1 Ib. butter, 

y 2 teaspoonful of salt. 

Take one-third of the butter and rub into 
flour; mix with cold water to a soft dough. 
Roll out, spread with butter and dredge over 
with flour, lightly, then fold over. Roll out 
again and repeat as before until the butter is 
used. Roll out very thin. Cut and put in tart 
tins and bake in hot oven. 

MRS. J. W. ROWLING. 

ROLL BUTTER PASTRY. 

l / 2 cupful of cold water, 
l / 2 cupful of sweet cream, 

2 yolks of eggs, 

1 Ib. of hard butter, 

1 Ib. of sifted flour. 

First take water, cream and yolks in a 
bowl; add not quite half of the flour and mix 
into a smooth dough. Flour the bread board, 
turn out the dough, give it a few quick knead- 
ings and roll out thin. Cut off thin slices of 
butter and put over the dough, roll it again A 



154 PIES 

keep on adding butter and flour until you get 
it all rolled in, but do not use warm hands on 
the dough after you commence with the butter; 
roll quickly. You can cut the dough with 
small cutters or in long strips with a knife as 
you wish. Also make into tarts or turnovers, 
using jelly, cooked prunes chopped fine, or 
cranberry jam. Roll quarter of an inch thick, 
wash with water and sprinkle with sugar. This 
is best made early in the morning before but- 
ter gets soft and should be rolled in a cool 
room. MRS. C. M. HANSEN. 

PASTRY. 

4 cupfuls pastry flour, 

1 teaspoonful baking powder, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 cupful shortening, half lard, half but- 
ter, 

Cold water to make stiff dough. 
Sift dry ingredients together. Rub in 
shortening until mixture looks like bread 
crumbs. Add water gradually stirring with a 
knife. Turn lump on to flour board and roll 
one-half inch thick, then roll up in form of cyl- 
inder (like jelly cake roll); cut off in slices and 
roll thin to cover pie tin. This recipe makes 
three pies with two crusts each. For two pies 
use three cups of flour and three-fourths cup 
shortening, remainder as above. 

Pastry flour; Mix thoroughly together 
four cupfuls of bread flour with one cupful 
of cornstarch. 

MRS. B. L. HOT.LENBECK, Pacific Grove. 

Photo Suoplies at Mason's Bazaar 



PIES 155 

PINE APPLE PIE. 

Make a nice paste, line the pan, prick well 
with a fork and bake. Filling: 

1 cupful of pine apple, chopped fine, 

1 cupful of sugar, 

% cupful of butter, (scant), 

1 cupful of sweet cream, 

4 eggs, (whites for meringue). 

MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

CEEAM PIE. 

Yolks of 5 eggs, 

1 teacupful of butter, 

1 pt. of sugar, 

1 tablespoonful of flour, 

1 pt. of cream, flavor to taste. 
Make meringue of the five whites, pla,ce on 
the top and brown slightly. Bake with bot- 
tom crust only. Delicious pie for those who 
are fond of rich desserts. 

MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

DATE CREAM PIE. 

First bake the crust. Take one and one-half 
cupfuls of finely chopped dates, mix with 
enough whipped cream, slightly sweetened and 
flavored, to fill the crust. Cover with merin- 
gue; brown lightly. Miss L. LAWREY, 

Pacific Grove. 

CREAM PRUNE PIE. 

Add a little sugar to prunes while cooking; 
when done stone and press through a coarse 
sieve or a colander. Take a cupful of pulp, 
add a cupful of cream or rich milk and the 



156 PIES 

yolks of three eggs well beaten. Flavor lightly 
with vanilla and add a pinch of salt. Bake in 
an under crust as quickly as possible. Use 
whites of eggs with two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar for meringue, place on top and brown. 
ALICE M. BALL, San Jose. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

1 cupful of sour cream. 
1 cupful of brown sugar, 
1 cupful of raisins, 

Juice of half a lemon or two tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Spices to taste. 

MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

1 large cupful of milk, 

2 tableepoonfuls of grated chocolate, 
% cupful of sugar, 

Yolks of three eggs. 

Heat chocolate and milk together; add 
sugar and yolks beaten to a cream. Flavor 
with vanilla. Bake with undercrust. Make 
meringue of the whites and spread on top. 

MRS. E. L. BAKER. 

LEMON PIE. 

1 lemon, 

1 small cupful of sugar, 

1 egg, butter size of an egg, 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Mix sugar and butter together, then put 
in egg well beaten. Mix flour well with little 
cold water, then pour in boiling w^ater till like 
paste. When cold, add to the sugar and egg, 
then put in juice of one lemon and bake with, 
lower crust only. After it is baked, spread 



PIES . 157 

over the top whites of two eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, in which one-half cupful sugar has 
been stirred; return to oven until slightly 
browned. MRS. J. B PORTER. 

LEMON PIE. 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon, 

1 cupful of boiling water, 
% of a cupful of sugar. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs with two des- 
sert-spoonfuls of corn starch; add to the 
above and cook until thick. Line pie plate 
with paste and bake, then pour the mixture in. 
Ice with whites of the two eggs beaten with 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar and brown in 
oven. MRS. 0. S. TRIMMER, Pacific Grove. 

LEMON PIE. 

2 cupfuls of water, 
2 cupful H of sugar, 
Butter size of a walnut, 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 

Juice of three lemons, 

Yolks of five eggs. 

Boil sugar, water and butter together, 
add corn starch wet up with water, the yolks 
of the eggs well beaten and lastly the lemon 
juice. Whites for frosting. Put in a cool oven 
to set and it will not fall. Bake crust first 
and add filling when rather cool. 

MRS. IDA WALKER. 

LEMON PIE. 

Beat yolks of five eggs thoroughly; grad- 
ually stir in five tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
juice of one lemon Lemons differ so in degree 
of sourness that it is best to taste; if not sweet 



158 PIES 

enough add more sugar, if not sour enough, 
more lemon. Place this mixture in a double 
kettle to cook, stirring almost constantly. It 
must be thick enough to hold a spoon up- 
right before removing from fire; then add a 
teaspoonful of butter. Be careful it does not 
cook until it curdles. There is always a happy 
minute at which to take it off. Have the 
whites of five eggs beaten to stiff froth and 
gradually mix the yolks and whites The pas- 
try should be previously baked in quite a deep 
pie plate. Put filling into crust, piling up 
high, and brown in a very rapid oven, watch- 
ing carefully. This recipe doubled makes three 
small pies. MRS. A. SHAW, Hollister. 

BRAMBERRY TARTS. 

1 cupful raisins, seeded and chopped 

fine, 
1 teacupful sugar, 

1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
3 teaspoonfuls flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

First mix sugar and flour together, then 
add raisins, then butter and lemon juice. Bake 
in any good paste. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a pie plate with good crust, pinching 
an extra brim around the top that the custard 
may be the depth of the plate. Grate nutmeg 
over bottom until well sprinkled with it. Beat 
four eggs well with three-fourths cupful of 
sugar, then add little? over a pt. of milk. Bake 
in moderate oven. Sufficient for large sized 
pie. MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 



PIES 159 

GREEN APPLE PIE. 

Line a pie tin with any good crust, into 
which slice the apples. Cover with upper crust 
but do not pinch crust down, place in oven 
oven and bake slowly until apples are done. 
Take from the oven, remove upper crust by 
inserting knife between the two crusts, and 
sprinkle on the apples, sugar, nutmeg and 
small pieces of butter, Replace crust after 
seasoning. MRS. E. B. GABOON, Soquel. 

APPLE PIE. 

Take nice Bellflower apples, pare, quarter, 
core, and slice transversely (not lengthwise), 
then cut up more apple in small pieces to fill 
in so that it may be thick enough. One table- 
spoonful of flour sifted over apples and one- 
third cupful sugar poured over all. Add but- 
ter size of walnut, cut in small pieces, and a 
little spice. MRS. C. K. TTJTTLE, 

Pacific Grove. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Pare, core and cook four medium sized 
sour apples, then beat with a fork. To this 
add one-half cupful sugar, a small teaspoonful 
butter, nutmeg to taste, a pinch of salt, and a 
scant tablespoonful corn starch mixed with a 
little milk. Break yolks of two eggs into a 
cup; when well beaten add enough milk to fill 
cup and pour over apples. Mix all well to- 
gether and put on stove to cook. Line pie tin 
with crust and bake, after which pour in cust- 
ard. Make meringue of whites of two eggs 
beaten with two small tablespoonfulsof sugar, 
then pour over pie and brown. 

MRS. C. M. GILFILLAN. 



160 PIES 

CURRANT PIE. 

1 egg, 

1 cupful of sugar, 

1 cupful of currants. 

Mix all together. When baked, cover with 
white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth to which 
is added three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

MRS. A. ANDERSON, Chualar. 

PEAR PIE. 

Into a rich deep undercrust that has been 
baked, put cooked pears sufficient to fill the 
pie plate and bake in moderate oven ten min- 
utes. When cold and ready to serve, cover 
with whipped cream. 

MRS. II. J. BALL, San Jose. 

TRANSPARENT PIE. 

Four eggs (five or six are better) beaten 
separately, one and one-half cupfuls sugar and 
one cupful butter beaten to a cream. Glass 
of white jelly (tart), three teaspoonfuls vanilla, 
one cupful cream, and white of eggs added last. 
Bake with under crust only, (for two pies). 

MRS. E. WILLIAMS. 

HARLEQUIN PIE. 

Prepare a nice dried apple sauce. Line 
the pie tin with any good crust and fill half 
full Avith the dried apple sauce, on top of which 
place the following mixture which is sufficient 
for one pie. 

3 eggs, (3T>lks), 

1 teaspoonful of butter, 

Y 2 cupful of sugar, 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 



PIES 161 

Bake until crust is done, and make merin- 
gue of whites of eggs, place on top and brown 
lightly. JVlRs. W. J. HILL. 

SQUASH PIE. 

2 cupfuls of boiled squash, 

3 eggs, a little salt, 

% of a cupful of sugar, 

'2 t ablespoonfuls of molasses, 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter, 

1 tablespoonful of ginger, 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 

2 cupfuls of milk. 

Instead of ginger nutmeg and vanilla may 
be used. MRS. J. W. STIRLING. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

The first essential is a solid, yellow pump- 
kin. Cut in rings and pare, then cut in small 
pieces. Put to cook with a little water, and 
stew slowly for several hours till all t^ie water 
is cooked out, leaving pumpkin dry and of a 
rich brown color. Stir often to prevent- burn- 
ing. Put through a colander, add brown su- 
gar, salt and ginger to taste, then milk till of 
the consistency of rich cream: Add eggs, one 
to a pie. Line deep pie tins with good pastry, 
and after filling spread over each pie one or 
two spoonfuls of rich sweet cream. Bake 
slowly for some time. MRS. GEO. ABBOTT. 

MINCE MEAT. 

3 bowls of chopped meat, 

5 bowls of chopped apples,, 
1 bowl of molasses. 
1 bowl of vinegar, 



162 PIES 



1 bowl of cider, 

1- bowl of chopped suet, 

2 bowls of raisins, 



i/ 



bowl of shredded citron, 



5 bowls of sugar, 

3 lemons or oranges, 

Two tablespoonfuls each of cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg, and one tablespoonful 
each of salt and pepper. Boil all together. 
For smaller quantity use a teacup in place of 
a bowl and a teaspoon for a tablespoon. Any 
canned fruit which has fermented is good in 
place of cider. This is very convenient as in- 
gredients are all measured instead of weighed. 
MRS. H. A. MITCHELL, Palo Alto. 

MINCE MEAT. 

2 Ibs. of currants, 
2 Ibs. of raisins, 
2 Ibs. of sugar, 
2 Ibs. of meat, 

2 Ibs. of suet, 

4 Ibs of apples, 
1 Ib. of peel, 

1 tumbler of brandy, 
1 tumbler of cider, 

1 cupful of mixed spice, not so much of 
cloves and more of allspice. 

MRS. J. R. HEBBRON. 

MINCE MEAT. 

1 Ib. of lean beef, 
1% Ibs. of suet, 

3 Ibs. of chopped apples^ 

2 Ibs. of currants, 

3 Ibs. of raisins* 



PIES 163 

% lb. of citron, 

2 Ibs. of brown sugar, 

3 lemons, juice and little grated peel. 

1 cupful of molasses, 
1% cupfuls of preserves, 

2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, 
1 tablespoonful oif allspice, 

1 tablespoonful of cloves, 

2 nutmegs, 

2 cupfuls of sherry, 
1% cupfuls of bra-ndy, 
Salt to taste. 

Boil for a few minutes and add brandy and 
sherry just before sealing in jars. 

MRS. R. L. PORTER. 

MINCE MEAT. 

3 Ibs. beef very lean and tender, 
1 lb. suet, 

1 lb. butter, 
6 Ibs. apples, 

4 Ibs. raisins, 

3 Ibs. currants, 
1 lb. citron, 

1 lb. canded lemon, 

2 Ibs. walnuts chopped fine, 
2 Ibs. brown sugar, 

1 cupful molasses. 

Place in preserving kettle, two pts. of vine- 
gar from sweet pickles, one dessert spoonful 
cinnamon, mace, cloves, nutmeg and salt, 
juice and grated peel of four oranges and two 
lemons, and one and one-half pts. of brandy. 
When this boils add the other ingredients and 
heat thoroughly. MRS. M. R. KEEF. 

Mason's Bazaar for Kodaks, Films 



164 PIES 

MOCK MINCE MEAT. 

2 cupfuls of brown sugar, 

1 cupful of molasses, 

1 cupful of water, 

1 cupful of raisins, 

1 cupful of vinegar, 

% of a cupful of butter, 

4 crackers rolled fine, 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful of cloves, 
% a nutmeg, 

2 eggs well beaten, added last thing 
This quantity makes four pies. 

Miss RUTH HOOPER, Pacific Gro^e. 



J. H. MENKE, President B. G. TnGNAZZI, Cashier 

JNO. K. ALEXANDER, Vice President C. H. \VHISMAN, As't Cashier 

first National Bank of Safinas 



^Organized June iSp;) 



CAPITAL PAID UP * 50,000 

SURPLUS AND UNDIVIDED PROFITS, 9,000 

RESOURCES . $300,000 



A general Banking business truna:'.^. Letters of credit issued 
available in all parts oi the w..rid 

Dl R EIOTORS 

T H MFNKE K. PIAZZONI O. A. HALE 

TNO K AIFXAXUER CHAS.L. PIODA PATRICK JORDAN 

JOHN BERGES JEREMIAH CASEY HENRY BRUNNER 



Paddings 



"I know what the pudden's to he apricot roll-up. 
Oh, my buttons." THE MILL ONTHE FLOSS. 

All pudding moulds or dishes must be well 
buttered before using'. It takes about half as 
long to bake a pudding as^to boil it. 

To boil puddings either dishes or cloths 
are used. If dish is used, butter it well and tie 
a floured cloth tightly over the top. Dip cloth 
in boiling water then dredge with flour. If a 
cloth is used, make into a bag with felled seams 
to prevent water from entering easily; dip into 
boiling water, wring out, and flour well on the 
inside before putting in pudding. Tie up the 
mouth of the bag tightly, being careful to 
leave plenty of room for batter to swell. 

The water must be boiling when the pud- 
ding is put in and not allowed to stop boiling 
for a moment until it is done. If a bag, keep 
well under water, turning occasionally to pre- 
vent sticking to pot. If a dish, keep water w r ell 
p up about the sides. As water boils away re- 
plenish with more boiling water. 

When the pudding is done take from the 
pot and plunge /nto cold water and turn out 
immediately. Boiled or steamed puddings 
should be served as soon as they are done as 
they soon become heavy. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

3 Ibs. of stoned raisins. 



166 PUDDINGS 

3 Ibs. of currants, 

3 Ibs. of finely chopped beef suet, 

3 Ibs. of sugar, 

3 Ibs. sifted flour, 

1% Ibs, of light bread crumbs, 
1% Ibs. of mixed peel, 6 eggs, 

4 ozs. mixed spices, cloves, allspice, cin- 

namon, nutmeg; not quite so much 
cloves as other spices, 

1 tumbler of brandy, 

Just enough water to make it stiff. 

Boil six hours. MRS. J. R. HEBBROX. 



CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 6 eggs, 

2 cupfuls of beef suet chopped fine, 

1 cupful of bread crumbs, 

2 cupfuls of sifted flour, 
2 cupfuls of raisins, 

2 cupfuls of currants, 

1 cupful of chopped nuts, 

2 cupfuls of mixed peel, 

2 teaspoonfuls of allspice cloves and 

mace mixed, 

3 small teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, 

1 small cupful of sweet milk. 
In place of all milk one can substitute part; 
wine or brandy. Beat eggs and sugar to a 
cream, add milk gradually, then suet. Sift 
baking powder with the flour and add to above 
mixture. Next put in wine or brandy, if any 
is used, then bread crumbs, salt, and spices. 
Put the stoned raisins, sliced peel, chopped 
nuts and currants into a bowl and dredge well 
with flour, stirring to get thoroughly mixed; 
add, and beat all well together. Turn into h 



PUDDINGS 167 

buttered dish and steam six hours. This is 
better to be made the day before wanted and 
steamed the day used . It will require about 
an hour's time to steam over. 

MRS. WM. SUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Stale bread crumbs grated (amount of 

lloaf), 

1 Ib. shredded suet, 
1 Ib. raisins, 
1 Ib. Zante currants. 
% Ib. white figs, 
l / 2 Ib. citron, 
l / 2 Ib. dates. 
1 cupful nut meats, chopped either 

mixed walnuts and almonds or 

almonds alone, 

1 glass currant or any sour jelly, 
1 teacupful N. 0. molasses (hot), 
1 teacupful sugar, 
% teacupful strong coffee (hot), 
% teacupful claret or sour white wine, 

(hot), 

1 wine glass brandy, 

2 lemons grated, rind, and juice, 
1% tablespoonml cloves, 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 
2 tablespoonfuls mace, 
, 2 tablespoonfuls nutmeg, 
1 teaspoonful vanilla, 
A pinch of ginger, red pepper and salt, 
10 eggs well beaten (if eggs are plenty 

use 13 or 14). 

Sift in flour until about as thick as fruit 
cake batter. With the last flour add three 



168 PUDDI.MCiS 

tea-spoonfuls baking powder. A hvays cook in 
thoroughly greased can with a tight lid, also 
greased; put it into a much larger covered ves- 
sel so it will be surrounded with steam. Boil 
about five hours, or until it leaves the sides of 
the can. Then remove lid and set in the oven 
till the top loses its moist look. This makes 
two ten Ib. lard cans as full as they will cook. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

RICE PLUM PUDDING. 

Soak one-half cupful of rice over night, 
drain and place in buttered pudding dish in 
which there is a qt. of sweet milk, a salt 
spoonful of salt, one-half cupful of sugar, hea- 
ping tablespooiiful of butter, one tablespoon- 
fill of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg; stir in at the last a cupful of stoned 
raisins and bake in a slow oven for two hours. 
During the first hour stir a few times to pre- 
vent rice and raisins from settling. This pud- 
ding is nice made with two cups of chopped 
apples instead of raisins. 

MRS. G. REA. Gilroy. 

AN ECONOMICAL PLUM PUDDING. 

Cover one Ib. of soda crackers with milk 
and soak until very soft. Butter a baking 
dish and put in layer of crackers, then layer of 
seeded raisins; repeat until all of crackers are 
used. Beat six eggs with onelb. of light brown 
sugar, efte/nutrneg and one-half teaspoonful 
of salt; acrathree qts of milk and pour over 
crnckers and raisins. Bake for three hours in 
moderate oven. 

SAUCE; Beat together a tablespoonful of 



PUDDINGS 169 

butter and cupful of sugar; when creamed, 
add yolk of one egg and beat until quite light. 
Put to boil a cupful of water and stir into boil- 
ing water a tablespoonful of corn starch dis- 
solved in little cold water. When done, add 
well the beaten white of egg, stir briskly and 
add to other ingredients. Do not let it cook, 
but keep warm, and just before serving add 
either tablespoonful of brandy or sherry, and 
nutmeg. 

MRS. CLARA D. HOUGHTON, Pacific Grove. 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cupful of suet, 
1 cupful of sugar, 
1 cupful of milk, 

1 cupful of chopped raisins, 

3 cupfuls of flour, 

2 tea spoonfuls of baking powder, 
1 egg, salt and spices to taste. 

Boil or steam three hours. Serve with 

SAUCE: 

1 cupful of sugar, 
% cupful of butter, 1 egg. 
Beat all well together, add a tablespoonful 
of water, and heat to a scald. Flavor with 
claret MRS. H. HOFFMAN. 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cupful of molasses, 

1 cupful of suet chopped fine, 

1 cupful of water, 

1 cupful of chopped raisins, 

Y 2 cupful of currants, 

4 cupfuls Hour, 

1 teaspoonful soda. 



170 PUDDINGS 

Boil three hours. Serve with hot sauce, or 
whipped butter and sugar. Very nice to pour 
brandy over it and light it as you send to ta- 
ble. MRS. W. V. McGARVEY. 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cupful chopped suet, 

2 cupfuls apples, 

Y 2 cupful brown sugar, 

% cupful New Orleans molasses, 

1 teaspoonful soda, 

3 cupfuls flour, 

l / 2 cupful sweet milk, 

% cupful choppedwalnuts, 

Y 2 cupful raisins, 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

Add cinnamon, nutmeg and ^cloves] to 
taste. Steam three hours and serve with hard 
sauce. Miss C. REA, Gilroy. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

2 cupfuls of sour milk, 
2 cupfuls of sugar, 

2 cupfuls of raisins, 
2 cupfuls of currants, 

1 cupful of butter, 

2 cupfuls of bread crumbs, 

2 teaspoonfuls of soda, 2 eggs, 
Flour to thicken. 
Steam three hours. 

MRS. S. W. CON KLIN. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

% cupful of butter, 

1 cupful of milk, 1 egg, 



PUDDINGS 171 

1 cupful of fresh dried fruit, 
1% eupfuls of flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 
% teaspoonful of soda, 

Steam one-half hour. 

MRS. M. R. MERRITT. 

STEAMED BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

Three-fourths cupful of butter and one 
cupful sugar well creamed. Three eggs beaten 
separately; yolks added to creamed butter 
and sugar. Add alternately one and one-half 
eupfuls flour and beaten whites; then three ta- 
blespoonfuls cream or milk, one teaspoonful 
soda, little nutmeg and a cupful of blackberry 
jam or fresh berries Pour in mould and boil 
two hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Miss L. LAWKEY, Pacific Grove, 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

2 eupfuls of dry bread crumbs, 

% cupful of butter, 

% cupful of sugar. 

1 cupful of sour milk. 2 eggs, 

1 cupful of seeded raisins, 

1 teaspoonful of soda, 

Cloves, allspice and nutmeg to taste, 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

Flour to make a stiff batter. 
Steam in kettle of boiling water one hour 
and a quarter. Serve with whipped cream or 
wine sauce. Miss 0. M. JENNE., Santa Cruz. 

STEAMED INDIAN PUDDING. 

1% eupfuls of corn meal, 
% eupfuls of flour. 



172 PUDDINGS 

1 cupful of sugar, 

1 small cupful of raisins or currants, 

1 pt. sour milk, % teaspoonful salt, 

2 level teaspoonfuls of soda. 

Steam two and one-half hours over boiling 
beef. Serve with rich sweet cream and sugar. 

MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING. 

2 eggs, pinch of salt, 
1 cupful of sweet milk, 
% cupful of molasses, 
1 cupful of graham flour, 

1 cupful of raisins, 

2 even teaspoonfuls of soda, 
Steam two hours and serve with 

LEMON SAUCE: 

1 cupful of sugar, 

l / 2 cupful of butter, 

1 well beaten egg, 

Grated rind of a whole and juice of 

half a lemon. 

Cream butter and sugar; stir all together 
, and add six tablespoonfuls of boiling water, 
one at a time, until very hot, but not boiling. 
Miss 0. M. JENNE, Santa Cruz. 

SPICE PUDDING. 

1 cupful of sugar, 
1% cupfuls of flour, 

1 teaspoonful of yeast powder, 

2 eggs beaten in a cup and the cup 

filled with cream, 
Spice to taste, and a little salt. 
-Steam one hour. MBS, E, L. BAKER. 



PUDDINGS 173 

FIG PUDDING. 

% Ib. of figs chopped fine. 
1 heaping cupful of bread crumbs, 
1 cupful of sugar, 2 eggs, 
1 cupful of suet, 
% cupful of sweet milk, 
% teaspoonful of soda, 
1 teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
Wine glass of brandy. 

Steam three hours in tin mould. Serve 
with hard sauce. MRS. CHAS. HUDSON. 

BOILED FRUIT PUDDING. 

Grease a basin and line with plain pastry. 
Fill with fresh blackberries or any other kind 
of fresh fruit arid add a small tea cupful of su- 
gar, and a tablespoonful of water; then cover 
with pastry, pinching the edges well together. 
Take a piece of cioth and place it over the top 
of the basin and tie with a string, then put it 
in boiling water and boil one hour and a half. 

MRS. J. W. ROWLING. 

BOILED APPLE PUDDING. 

Make a paste with finely chopped beef suet 
and twice the amount of flour, a pinch of salt, 
and a little water. Roll it out thin and line a 
well buttered basin. Pare, core and slice a 
quantity of good, sound apples, arid put them 
in the lined basin in layers, scattering between 
each, sugar, two or three cloves, or chopped 
lemon peel, or a little grated nutmeg; add a 
small piece of fresh butter; pack the apples 
tightly, and put on a cover of paste, turning 
the edges and pressing them down. Let the 
basin stand in boiling water, but not to cover 



174 PUDDINGS 

it. Cover the saucepan and steam for three 
hours. MRS. F. GATES. 

SIX-GUP PUDDING. 

1 cupful of suet chopped, 
1 cupful of bread crumbs, 
1 cupful of flour, 
1 cupful of chopped raisins, 
1 cupful of sugar, 

1 cupful of buttermilk, 
% teaspoonful of soda, 
Flavor with spices to taste. 

Pour in a mould and boil three hours. 
SAUCE: 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
1 tablespoonful of flour, 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
l / 2 pt. of boiling water. 

Stir to a cream the butter, flour and sugar, 
add the water, put on the stove and stir until 
thick. Flavor to taste. MRS.T. S. MABEL. 

ORLEANS PUDDING. 

1% cupfuls of butter, 

1 cupful of molasses, . 

1 cupful of seedless raisins, 

1% cupfuls milk, 2 cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in 

milk. 

Boil two hours in tin boiler and serve with 
following sauce: 

SAUCE: One cupful of powdered sugar and 
one-half cupful of butter beaten to a cream. 
Bea,t the yolk of one egg and add, then 
beat the white and add. Melt over the top of 
tea-kettle and after melting stir in one-half 
glass of wine. MRS. , Salinas. 



PUDDINGS 175 

EGG PUDDING. 

4 beaten eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 

1 pint of milk, pinch of salt. 
Mix the eggs, flour and salt until smooth, 
then add the milk by degrees; beat thoroughly 
and turn into a well buttered dish to bake. 
Bake twenty minutes. Serve with sweetened 
cream. MRS. H. BREESE. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Stir into aqt. of boiling milk three-fourths 
cupful of chocolate. Let it partially cool then 
beat until light and thick. Add yolks of four 
eggs with one cupful sugar, and continue to 
beat until cold. Flavor delicately with 
vanilla. Bake slowly. Special care is re- 
required in baking. Beat whites of four eggs, 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor; cool pud- 
ding, place this upon the top and set in oven 
for a few moments. Serve cold with whipped 
cream. Miss PERRY, Monterey. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

1 pt. milk, l / 2 cupful sugar, 
1 pt. of bread crumbs, 
Yolks of three eggs, 

5 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 
Scald milk, add bread crumbs and choco- 
late. Take from fire, add sugar and beaten 
yolks. Bake in pudding dish fifteen minutes. 
Make meringue of whites of eggs and three ta- 
blespoonfuls of sugar, spread over pudding 
and brown. Serve cold with cream. 

MRS. JOHN HARVEY. 



176 PUDDINGS 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

3 oupfuls of milk, 
% cupful of cracker crumbs, 
% cupful of cocoanut, 
% cupful of sugar, 
2 eggs, small piece butter. 
Mix; bake. Eaten warm or cold. No 
sauce. MRS. H. A. MITCHELL, Palo Alto. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Soak a box of gelatine in a pt. of cold wat- 
er. Set it on stove till dissolved; add pt. of 
boiling water and let it cool. Just before it 
hardens beat well with whites of three eggs 
one cupful sugar, and little lemon extract. 
Serve wilth the following: 
CUSTARD: 

1 pt. of milk, 
Yolks of 3 eggs, 
% cupful of sugar. 

Cook; add one teaspoonful vanilla. Mould 
gelatine and pour custard over when ready for 
the table. MRS. T. S. MABEL. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Pour one pt. of boiling water on a box of 
gelatine, add juice of one lemon and two cup- 
fuls sugar; when nearly cold, strain, add 
whites of five eggs beaten to stiff froth, then 
beat all well together. Put into wet mould to 
shape and set away to get cold. Serve with 
the following sauce: 

WINE SAUCE: 

% cupful of powdered sugar, 
Grated rind of a lemon, 
1 glass of wine, 



PUDDINGS 177 

% cupful of butter, 4 eggs, 
1 tablespoonful of corn starch, 
About two cupful s of boiling water. 
Beat butter, sugar and corn starch to a 
cream then pour on the boiling water. Have 
yolks well beaten with wine, put all together, 
stirring constantly. MRS. C. M. HANSEN. 

RUSSIAN PUDDING. 

% of a package of gelatine, 

% of a cupful of sugar, 

1 qt. of milk, 4 eggs. 

Cover gelatine with water and let stand 
one hour; heat milk to boiling point, then stir 
in gelatine and when well stirred add yolks of 
four eggs well beaten with the sugar. Cook two 
or three minutes, then stir in whites of four 
eggs beaten to stiff froth. Flavor with vanilla. 
Serve with the following sauce: 

SAUCE: 

1 pt. of cream, 

% cupful of sugar, 

2 eggs, whites beaten lightly. 
1 teaspoonful cornstarch. 

Boil one minute and flavor. 

MRS. C. M. HANSEN. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Beat well together the yolks of four eggs 
and one teacupful of sugar;' add one quart of 
milk and one quart of bread crumbs with a 
piece of butter as large as an egg. When baked 
spread with jelly, and on this a frosting made 
of the whites of the eggs whipped to a froth 
with five teaspoonmls of sugar and the grated 



178 PUDDINGS 

rind of a lemon. Put into the oven and brown. 

MRS. F. GATES. 

BROWN BETTY. 

Pare and core a dozen large juicy apples. 
Chop fine with a hash knife. Butter a deep 
pudding dish, place first a layer of chopped 
apples and some bits of butter strewed over 
them, then sprinkle with white sugar. Flavor 
with nutmeg, lemon essence, or the juice and 
a little of the rind of a lemon. Next a layer 
of bread crumbs, then a layer of apples, and so 
on till the dish is full, finishing with a layer of 
breadcrumbs. To be eat en hot or cold with 
cream. MRS. M. R. MERRITT. 

RICE PUDDING (WITHOUT EGGS). 

1 small teacupful of rice, 
1 cupful of brown sugar, 
1 level teaspoonful of salt, 
Butter size of an egg, 

1 qt. of milk, 

% cupful of raisins, % nutmeg. 
Bake two hours. While baking stir the 
pudding once or twice, else the raisins will set- 
tle at the bottom, MRS. GEO. ABBOTT. 

BAKED BATTER PUDDING. 

2 tablespoonfuls of lard, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1 cupful of flour before sifting, 
1 heaping teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, 

1 egg, a pinch of salt. 
% cupful of milk. 
After putting ingredients together beat 



PUDDINGS 179 

thoroughly. Put any kind of fruit into a bak- 
ing dish, and if not sweetened fruit add a little 
sugar, then pour the batter over. Bake twen- 
ty to twenty-five minutes. Serve with any 
preferred sauce. This will make batter suffi- 
cient for a pudding to serve five or six persons. 
MRS. WM. SUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

(Witii strawberry sauce). 

1 cupful flour, little salt, 

1 teaspoonful baking powder, 
Sift together and add 

1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 beaten egg. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 

Bake, cut in squares and serve with follow- 
ing 

SAUCE: Four times as much sugar as but- 
ter worked together, one unbeaten egg; beat 
all together and add one cupful of strawber- 
ries. Beat until light. 

MRS. WILL JACKS, Pacific Grove. 

FRENCH BATTER PUDDING. 

Put stale bread into a pan of water and 
let it stand several hours. Squeeze the crumbs 
in your hands and put them into a pudding- 
dish. To each cupful of crumbs add two eggs 
well beaten. Forte lightly and add one cupful 
"of milk and a little salt. Bake one-half hour 
and serve with any preferred sa,uce. 

MRS. B. L. HOLLENBECK, Pacific Grove. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

% cupful of sugar, 



180 PUDDINGS 

1% tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 

% cupful of sweet mill*, 

Y 2 pt. of flour, yolk of 1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 
White of an egg beaten well and added last 

Bake and serve with any good sauce. 

Mug. M. L. DEXTER. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

1% cupful s of sugar, 
}/ 2 cupful of water, 

2 cupfuls of flour, 

1% teaspoorifuls baking pow'der, 

3 eggs beaten separately. 

Steam one hour. MRS. E. L. BAKER. 

PKUNE PUDDING. 

'Take one large cupful of prunes and stew 
runtil very tender in as little w r ater as possible; 
when cold remove pits and chop very fine, add 
whites of three eggs and half a cupful of sugar 
beaten to a stiff froth; mix well and turn into 
a buttered dish and bake thirty minutes in 
moderate oven. Serve with sw r eet cream. 

MRS. J. K. ALEXANDER. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

1 pt. of milk, 

1 tablespoonful of corn starch, 
% cupful of sugar, yolks of 3 eggs. 
Cut as many oranges as desired into small 
pieces and sprinkle with sugar some time be- 
fore wanted. When custard has been cooked 
and is cool, pour over oranges. Beat whites 
of eggs, flavor with vanilla put over top of 
pudding, and place in oven until a delicate 



PUDDINGS 181 

brown. MRS. WILBUR, Pacific Grove. 

PEACH COBBLERS. 

1% cupfuls of flour, 1 egg, 
1 tablespoonful of butter, 
1 tea.spoonful of baking powder. 
A little salt and milk to make a soft 
dough. Peel peaches, cut in halves, removing 
stones, fill cavities with sugar. Roll out a 
small piece of dough, place a peach in center, 
sprinkle more sugar over, bring dough around 
the peach, pinching it well together at the top, 
place in a. deep pudding dish; repeat until the 
bottom is covered. Pour in boiling water till 
within one-half inch of the top of cobblers, 
sprinkle a heaping teaspoonful of sugar over 
all, and bake about one-half hour. Apple 
dumplings are made in same manner, substi- 
tuting applet for peaches. Serve with wine 
sauce. MRS. R. L. PORTER. 

PEACH COBBLER. 

Put one qt. of sliced peaches in pudding 
dish and heat; add small pieces of butter, one 
cupful white sugar and a little water. Take 
two-thirds cupful sweet milk, four tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter, one and one-half cupfuls 
flour and one teaspoonful baking powder; stir, 
spread over fruit and bake. Eat with cream 
and sugar. MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

DUTCH APPLE PUDDING. 

1 pt. of flour, 1 egg, 

1% tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, 
1% tea spoonfuls of salt, 
% cupful of butter rubbed into flour, 
% of a cupful of cold water, 



182 PUDDINGS 

4 or 5. sour apples, pared, cored and 

quartered. 

Beat eggs, add to it the cold water and 
stir into the flour. Spread thinly in well but- 
tered, shallow pans. Place the apples on the 
dough and sprinkle over them sugar and nut- 
meg. Bake from twenty to thirty minutes and 
serve with the following 

LEMON SAUCE: 

% cupful of sugar, 
% cupful of butter, 1 egg, 
Juice and grated rind of a lemon, 
1 teaspoonful of nutmeg, 
Y 2 cupful of boiling water. 
Cream butter and sugar, then beat in egg, 
lemon and sugar. Beat well, then add water. 
Cook over boiling water, stirring constantly. 

MRS. JOHN HARVEY. 

VEGETABLE PUDDING. 

1 cupful of suet, 
1 cupful of sugar, 
1 cupful of grated apples, 
1 cupful of grated carrots, 
1 cupful of grated potatoes, 
1 cupful of flour, 

1 cupful each of raisins, and currants, 
1 cupful bread crumbs, little salt. 
Boil three hours. MRS. J. B. PORTER. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

1 cupful carrots, 
1 cupful potatoes, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 cupful flour, 
% cupful butter, 



PUDDINGS 183 

1 teaspoonful soda put in raw potatoes 
1% cupful currants, raisins, mixed, 
Pinch of salt, spices to taste. 
Grate vegetables and steam. 

MRS. JOHN HEBBRON. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

2% cupfuls of milk, 

% cupful each of corn meal and sugar, 

1 spoonful of flour, 

2 eggs, 

Butter size of half an egg, 



i/ 



cupful of brown sugar, 



1 teaspoonful each of salt and allspice. 
. Put one and one-half cupfuls of milk on 
the stove to heat. When scalding hot stir in 
the corn meal; Avet with little of the cold milk. 
Remove from stove and add sugar, salt and 
butter; when cool add eggs, flour, allspice and 
remainder of milk. Bake slowly two hours. 
Serve with creamed butter and sugar. 

MRS. GEO. ABBOTT. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cupful tapioca soaked over night in 
two cupfuls milk. Beat two tablespoonfuls 
butter with one cupful sugar, add four beaten 
yolks, two cupfuls milk, then tapioca, and 
lastly four beaten whites. Bake very slowly 
for one hour. MRS. J. W. STIRLING. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Boil one qt. milk and one. cupful sugar to- 
gether; add three tablespoonfuls sngo find stir 
until cooked. Add yolks of two eg's well 
beaten, small lump of butter and two tea- 



184 PUDDINCiS 

spoonfuls vanilla. Turn into a glass dish; 
beat whites to froth and stir in lightly. 

L. A. S. 

CHEESE PUDDING. 

Cover the bottom of a porcelain dish with 
bread crumbs, then layer of cheese cut in small 
pieces, more bread crumbs and cheese, until 
dish is filled. Last layer should be cheese. 
Beat an egg in a large cup and fill up with 
milk; add salt and pour over bread and cheese. 
Bake half hour. It is light and puffy. 

MRS. C. SIEGHOLD. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

2 cupfuls of milk, 2 eggs, 

% cupful. rolled cracker, 

% cupful sugar, 

% teaspoonful of soda, 

Butter size of a walnut, little salt. 
Warm milk, add cracker crumbs, yolks of 
eggs and sugar beaten together; salt, soda, 
butter, and last whites of eggs beaten to stiff 
froth. Bake about twenty minutes. Serve 
with blackberrv jam and sw r eetened cream. 

A. L. P. 



Pudding Sauces 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Piece of butter the size of a large walnut, 
enough powdered sugar to work up the butter 
into a cream, several strawberries mashed and 
stirred into butter and sugar. This is a deli- 
cious sauce for bread puddings. The amount 



PUDDING SAUCES 185 

given is sufficient for two people. 

MKS WILBUR, Pacific Grove. 

STRAWBEIUUIY SAUCE. 

% of a cupful of butter, 
1 cupful of sugar. 
The beaten white of one egg. 
1 cupful of mashed strawberries. 
Mix well. Very nice made of red raspber- 
ries. MRS. H, A. MITCHELL, Palo Alto. 

ORANGE PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 cupful of powdered sugar, 
1 large, or 2 small oranges, 
1 egg (yolk). 

Grate peel, squeeze juice, add beaten yolk, 
then sugar, and beat well for twenty minutes. 
MRS. D. A. SMITH, San Jose. 

FAVORITE PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 cupful each of sugar, and water, 

1 cupful of sweet cream, 

l / 2 teaspoonful salt, little vanilla. 

4 teaspoonfuls of corn starch. 
Dissolve sugar in water and let heat gra- 
dually. When hot stir in corn starch mixed 
smooth with little cold water; add salt and 
stir until clear; remove from fire and when 
cold whip cream, stir into the sauce, and whip 
together for two or three minutes. Half this 
quantity is sufficient for a small family. Very 
delicious sauce for puddings, particularly fruit 
puddings, and is equal to whipped cream. 

MRS. H. S. BALL., 



SEND YOUR NEWLY MSRRIED FRIEND 

2t COFY OF CRUMBS FROM EVER Y BODY'S XH.BLE; 



186 PUDDING SAUCES 

SOUR SAUCE. 

% pt. of water, % cupful sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls of corn starch, 
Butter half the size of an egg, 
2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, nutmeg. 
When water is hot put in butter, sugar, 
vinegar, and corn starch wet up wjth little cold 
water. Cook until thick. Very nice sauce for 
plum or fruit puddings. MRS. W. H. CLARK 

FOAMING SAUCE. 

1 cupful sugar, 

2 large tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

Beat well together, then stir in large cup 
boiling water, and let all boil a few minutes. 
If too thick, add little more water. Just be- 
fore serving pour the hot sanr-e over well beat- 
en white of an egg; beat well, adding any de- 
sired flavoring. MRS. I. A. BALL. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 

1 large tablespoonful of butter, 
1 teacupful of sugar, 

1 tablespoonful of boiling water. 
Beat well together, add yolk of one egg, 

beaten white added last. As it goes to table 
add little wine. MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

WINE SAUCE. 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 
l / 2 cupful butter, 

1 cupful sherry or angelica with a lit- 
tle brandy. 

Stir sugar arid butter to a cream; add 
wine drop by drop. When mixed, put into. 



PUDDING SAUCES 187 

sauce dish and place in basin of hot water; do 
not stir, but allow to melt undisturbed, and it 
forms a delicious foam. MRS. J. F. BIBLEM. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Cream one-third cupful of butter, and 
three-fourths cupful of sugar, and just before 
serving stir in a small cupful of boiling starch, 
made of flour or corn starch, with nutmeg 
and wine or brandy, or other flavoring, if pre- 
ferred. Miss 0. M. JENNE, Santa Cruz. 

HARD SAUCE. 

One-half cupful butter well-beaten; stir in 
slowly one cupful fine sugar and beat to a 
cream. Flavor with nutmeg or little brandy. 
Pile on a plate to serve. The white of an egg 
beaten stiff and added, beating all together 
makes it very delicate and creamy. 

MRS. WM. SUTTON, Pacific Grgve. 



SALINAS HOTEL '*-*!!??' 

from all trams 



A Popular 



Family Hotel 



Convenient, cheerful and quiet 



Terms $1.25 to $1.50 per CASTROVILLE ST. 

day. Single meals 250. NEAR MAIN 

Special ntes by the * J. P. LAURITZEN 

week or month. Proorietor 



Fancy Desserts 



"Custards for supper, and an endless host of 
other such ladylike luxuries." 

SHKLLKV. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

9 tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar, 

3 tablespoonfuls of any acid jelly, 

Whites of two eggs, 

Juice of one large lemon. 
Put all ingredients on large platter; beat 
slowly and steadily for thirty minutes; pour 
mixture over a dish of rich preserves, and 
over -that a pt. of rich cream. If this is too 
rich try it over canned peaches, leaving out 
all the peach juice. This dish is often spoiled 
by beating whites of eggs before adding other 
ingredients. MRS. U. HABTNELL. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

1 pt. of flour,. 

1 heaping tablespoonfnl of sugar, 
% cupful butter, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Melt butter; wet with sweet, milk to make 
as soft as tea oake; bake in pie tins; when done 
cut open and butter; p;it crushed and sweet- 
ened strawberries between. 

Miss PERRY, Monterey. 

H. H, Mason, Red Bazaar, Sells 

Crumbs From Everybody's Table 



FANCY DESSERTS 189 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls lard, 

1 qt. flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Sift dry ingredients. Rub lard into flour 
add water (stirring with spoon) to make a 
soft dough, just stiff enough to roll. Turn on 
to floured board, do not knead, but make into 
round shape with hands, then roll out about 
an inch thick. Bake in long tin, split, butter 
plentifully and put crushed and sweetened 
strawberries or raspberries between. Can also 
be used as a supper bread, cutting into 
squares. MRS. GEO. LITTLE, Pacific Grove. 

STRAWBERRY PUFFS. 

With the fingers rub into one pt. of sifted 
flour one large tablespoonful butter, a pinch 
of salt, one and < >ne-fourth teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder; stir in sw r eet milk to make a soft 
dough. Roll dough out to about half an inch 
in thickness; cut in squares. In each square 
put three or four strawberries, cover fruit with 
the dough and roll lightly until it is a round 
ball. Steam fifteen minutes. Serve at once 
with 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE: 

Stir one-half cupful butter until soft and 
creamy; then stir in one cupful powdered su- 
gar and beat well. Add half dozen mashed 
strawberries one at a time. Place sauce on 
ice until needed. MRS. C. L. PIODA. 

STRAWBERRY BLANC MANGE. 

Stew ripe strawberries, strain off juice and 
sweeten to taste; place over fire and when it 



190 FANCY DESSERTS 



boils stir in corn starch a4 wet in water, al- 
lowing two tablespoonfuls corn starch to ev- 
ery pt. of juice. Stir constantly until suffici- 
ently cooked. Pour into wet moulds and set 
away to cool. Serve with cream and sugar, 
and if desired scatter fresh strawberries 
around. MRS. WILBUR, Pacific Grove. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD. 

One pineapple, fresh or canned; fresh straw- 
berries, twice as much berries as pineapple; 
strained and sweetened juice of two oranges 
and three lemons. Instead of slicing pineap- 
ple, tear apart in small pieces. Fill a glass 
dish with alternate layers of strawberries and 
pineapple, with layer of berries at bqttom and 
on top; then pour over the whole the juice of 
lemons and oranges and whatever juice there 
may be of pineapple. This is an exceptionally 
fine combination of flavors. It should bek ept 
in a very cool place or on ice until served. 

MRS. F. MAY, Soquel. 

STRAWBERRY MERINGUE. 

Make good puff paste; cut out size of din- 
ner plate, and bake to a light brown in quick 
oven. Draw to oven door, lay strawberries 
rolled in sugar over it; cover these an inch 
deep with meringue made of whites of four 
eggs Avhipped stiff with three tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar. Bake until meringue is tinged 
with yellow brown. Eat fresh, but not hot. 
MRS. WILBUR, Pacific Grove. 

DELICATE DESSERT. 
Three-fourths of a box of gelatine dissolved 



FANCY DESSERTS 191 

in one cupful cold water; add juice of two 
lemons, two cupfuls sugar and one cupful boil- 
ing water. Stir till all is dissolved, then set 
away to cool till it begins to jelly when you 
add two oranges peeled and cut in small pieces, 
two bananas peeled and sliced, six figs cut in 
little bits, and twelve English walnuts broken 
up. Stir fruits and nuts w T ell through jelly and 
leave over night to harden. Serve with cream. 
. MRS. K. L. PORTER. 



TROPICAL SALAD. 

1 large pineapple, 

9 bananas, 6 oranges, 4 lemons. 

1 pt. of sherry, 1 box of gelatine. 

2 dozen strawberries or cherries, 
1 small cupful blanched almonds. 

Make pyramid of the large fruit in a deep 
dish as follows: Pare a pine apple, slice 
across, and quarter from apex to base, (still 
holding its natural shape) and place in center 
of dish; peel and quarter bananas lengthwise, 
allowing to remain together at one end, and 
stand around pineapple; pare, slice and re- 
move seeds from oranges and two lemons, 
and arrange between bananas and bottom of 
dish; make wine jelly and pour in dish, drop- 
ing in nuts and small fruit before it is firmly 
set. 

WINE JELLY: 

Soak box of gelatine in one-half pt. cold 
water, two hours; pour on one and one-half 
pts. boiling water and stir until dissolved; add 
juice of two lemons and sweeten to taste; 
strain and add one pt. sherry. To be served 
with mayonnaise, or as a dessert with whipped 



192 FANCY DESSERTS 

cream. MRS. J. F. BIRLEM, S. F. 

VELVET CREAM. 

1 large pt. of milk, 

3 dessert spoonfuls of corn starch. 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar, 
A small piece of butter, 

3 eggs, flavoring to taste. 
Put milk and butter on stove; mix corn 
starch and sugar together, add milk to 
moisten, then yolks and beat well; when milk 
is warm mix nil together and stir continuously 
until thoroughly cooked, then flavor. Turn 
into a dish, heap upon it the whites of eggs 
beaten stiff with three dessert spoonfuls sugar; 
place in oven to brown lightly. 

MRS. 0. S. TRIMMER, Pacific Grove. 

BANANA CREAM. 

Five bananas, five ounces of sugar, one- 
half pt. of cream, one-half wine glassful of 
brandy, one-half ounce of gelatine, one lemon 
(juice only). Pound bananas and sugar in a 
mortar; beat cream to stiff froth and stir in 
bananas and brandy and lemon juice; mix 
well, then add gelatine dissolved in little boil- 
ing water; pour into a mould and stand on 
ice or in a cold place. MRS. C. F. LACEY. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

One-half box gelatine dissolved in one- 
half pt. milk; add pt. of milk and yolks of four 
eggs: stir while boiling and sweeten to taste; 
take from stove, flavor with one teaspoonful 
of vanillla and one wine glassful of brandy; 
stir in whites of eggs well beaten and pour into 



FANCY DESSERTS 193 

a mould to harden; serve with whipped cream. 

MBS. J. J. KELLY. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

To each cupful of good cream, not more 
than twenty-four hours old, allqw four tea- 
spoonfuls sugar; beat cream with an egg- 
beater to stiff froth, being careful not to whip 
too much or it Avill turn to butter; add sugar 
and flavor with one-half teaspoonful vanilla, 
or little strawberry or other fruit juice. Pile 
in a glass dish and serve on pieces of cake as 
dessert. One cupful of cream will make about 
a pt. when whipped. MRS. H. S. BALL. 

OKAN.GE CREAM. 

Juice of six oranges, or one qt. of juice; 
one-half box of gelatine, sugar to taste. Let 
come to a boil and strain into mould. Serve 
with whipped cream. Strawberry juice can be 
used instead of oranges. MRS. F. MAY,Soquel 

LEMON CREAM. 

4 eggs, 1 large lemon, 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

4 tablespoonful of cold water. 
Beat yolks of eggs, sugar, grated rind, 
juice of lemon, and water together; put in 
granite double boiler and cook, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Add whites of the 
eggs beaten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

MRS. H. M. ST ANTON, National City. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Put on the stove two cupf uls of hot water, 
into it the juice and grated rind of one large 



194 FANCY DESSERTS 

or two small lemons, into this the beaten yolks 
of three eggs and two tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch or flour mixed smooth with water; 
sweeten to taste. Have ready the three beaten 
whites of the eggs, which stir slowly into the 
above mixture when it is about to boil; let 
boil a moment, stirring all the time. 

MRS. M. E. HOOLE, Pacific Grove. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Beat together the juice of two lemons and 
two cupfuls sifted sugar, then add yolks of five 
eggs. Put on thestov r ein double boiler; let 
come to a boil, and add quickly whites of the 
eggs beateii to stiff froth. Stir all together, 
take immediately from fire, pour into moulds 
or desseit dishes and serve with cream. 

MRS. JOB WOOD. 

SAGO CREAM. 

Soak two tablespoonfuls sago half an hour 
in cupful warm water. Drain off water, if any 
is left, put sago in double boiler with pt. of 
milk and little salt. Beat yolks of two eggs 
with four tablespoonfuls sugar to a cream, 
and when milk is hot stir in egg and sugar, 
stirring constantly until it thickens, then re- 
move immediately from the fire; flavor with 
vanilla and pour into a glass dish . Beat whites 
of eggs to stiff froth, add three tablespoonfuls 
sugar and beat till smooth. Pile on to cream 
and set in oven to brown. Set dish in cold 
water and it will not break. Serve either warm 
or cold. Tapioca can be prepared tn same 
manner. MRS. A. W. ANDERSON, Pacific Grove 



FANCY DESSERTS 195 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Dissolve one-half box gelatine in water suf- 
ficient to cover; boil one pt. milk, then add 
gelatine. Beat together yolks of three eggs 
and one-half cupful sugar; add to mixture, al- 
lowing it to remain on stove ten minutes 
longer. Remove from stove and add whites of 
three eggs, beaten to a froth; stir well and put 
in mould. MRS. M. MC.HARRY. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

1 oz. of gelatine, 

1 qt. of milk.' 

4 eggs, sugar to taste. 
Dissolve gelatine in milk; beat yolks of 
eggs to a cream and add little sugar; stir in 
dissolved gelatine, then stir the whole over fire 
until it looks like curdled milk; remove at 
once and flavor with vanilla. Have whites of 
eggs beaten to stiff froth and stir into custard 
as soon as it is removed from fire. Pour mix- 
ture into moulds and set in cool place. In 
twenty-four hours it will be ready for use. The 
top looks clear as amber and custard should 
be below. Serve with a sauce. 

MRS. H. SAMUELS. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

l / 2 box gelatine, 
% cupful cold water, 
Y 2 cupful boiling water, 
1 can pine-apple, 

1 pt. whipped cream, sugar to taste. 
Dissolve gelatine in cold water, add boil- 
ing water and strain, then the chopped pine- 



196 FANCY DESSERTS 

apple, sugar and cream; beat all thoroughly 
and pour into a mould. MRS. F. MAY,Soquel. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

One qt. pineapple juice in which a package 
of gelatine has been dissolved; put on fire and 
bring to boil, then sweeten to taste; when 
nearly cold, 'beat until it is a white foam and 
quite stiff, then beat in whipped whites of four 
eggs and set away until stiff and cold; serve 
w r ith cream. MRS. V. I). BLACK. 

RASPBERRY PUFF. 

t 
To one cupful of fresh raspberries add one 

of sugar, and the white of one egg; beat to- 
gether one hour or till your are tired; straw- 
berries may be used. MRS. F. MAY, Sequel. 

A DISH OF SNOW. 

Six large apples put in cold water and kept 
on stove until soft; remove skins, and cores, 
and put pulp in a basin and beat to froth. 
Beat whtes of six eggs very stiff and add one- 
fourth Ib. of sugar; mix with apples and beat 
till like snow; add vanilla or lemon and heap 
high on a glass dish; serve with cream either 
whipped or plain. MRS. J. W. STIRLING. 

CORN STARCH BANANA PUDDING 
CUSTARD. 

1 qt. of milk, 
Yolks of three eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
Sweeten and flavor to taste. 

Slice three bananas and put into custard 
while hot, then pour into a glass dish, When 



FANCY DESSERTS 197 

cold, beat whites of eggs to stiff froth, sweeten 
a little and lay on top of pudding. 

MRS. H. W. SEALE. 

MOONSHINE. 

Beat whites of six eggs very stiff with six 
tablespoonfuls sugar. Cut up one doz. ripe 
mellow peaches and stir them in. Serve with 
whipped cream. MRS. H. M. FROST. 

SNOW PYRAMIDS. 

Beat to stiff foam whites of six eggs, add 
small teacupful currant jelly, and whip all to- 
gether. Sweeten to taste. Fill as many sau- 
cers, as you have guests, half full of cream, 
dropping in the center of each saucer a table- 
spoonful of the beaten eggs and jelly in the 
shape of a pyramid. Season with lemon. 

MRS. FANNIE R. BARKLEY. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA. 

Two tablespoonfuls tapioca soaked over 
night in little water; in the morning add one- 
half cupful sugar, one pt. milk and one egg. 
Heat milk, add tapioca and boil twenty minu- 
tes. Add yolk of egg, sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
flour, and a little salt, to milk, boil five minu- 
tes and pour into a dish. Beat white of egg 
with one and a half tablespoonfuls sugar, 
spread ovar top and set in oven a few minutes. 
Pare and slice bananas, peaches or oranges, 
place in the bottom of a g'lass dish and sprinkle 
with sugar. Wet a knife, slip around the edge 
of pudding to loosen, and lay over the fruit. 
MRS. CHAS. NOBLE, Pacific Grove. 

H. H, Mason, Red Bazaar, Sells 

Crumbs From Everybody's Table 



198 FANCY DESSERTS 

FRUIT TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak one-half cupful of tapioca in, water 
over night. In the morning cook it in a double 
boiler till clear; add one cupful of raspberry 
jam, a little salt and a small piece of butter; 
stir well, turn it into a mould and set away to 
cool and harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. R. L. PORTER. 

APPLE CAKE. 

A small loaf of bread, grated, 
% cupful each of butter and sugar, 
2 tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, 
6 or 8 large apples, pared, cored and 

sliced very thin, little nutmeg. 
Heat butter and bread in a pan. Stir 
apples, jelly, sugar and nutmeg together, and 
let stand about half an hour. Butter your tin 
well, line it first with the prepared bread, then 
layer of apples, then layer of the bread again. 
Take two layers of apples and three layers of 
bread. Very nice, when cold to slice and place 
whipped cream on slices. 

MRS. C. M. HANSEN. 

TIPSY CAKE. 

Divide a stale sponge cake through center; 
take upper half and lay brown side down in a 
deep dish; separate one-fourth Ib. of lady fing- 
ers and put on, then one-fourth Ib. of maca- 
roons. Blanch a few almonds and sprinkle 
over cakes; pour over one-half glassful sherry 
and same of brandy; spread over this a thick 
layer of raspberry jam, then pour on a boiled 
custard; garnish with whipped cream. 

MRS. L. G. HARE. 



FANCY DESSERTS 199 

LEMON SPONGE PIE. 

3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful baking powder with 

flour, 

1 cupful each of sugar and flour, 
3 tablespoonfuls of water, 
Mix; bake in deep dish size of pie plate. 
Custard for above pie 
12 yolks of eggs, 
6 lemons, juice, 

1% tablespoonfuls of sugar to each 

lemon or nine tablespoonfuls in all. 

Mix arid boil until, quite thick then set aside 

to cool. When cold, add very gently the whites 

of the eggs beaten very stiff and stir until 

thoroughly mixed. Split the cake, lay each 

half in a pie plate and pour the cooked custard 

over them and bake in as slow an oven as 

.possible for at least a half an hour. This 

quantity will make two pies. 

Mies. I). J. SPENCE. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

3 eggs, 

l / 2 lb. sugar, 

% lb. butter, juice of two lemons. 
Beat eggs and sugar together; add juice 
and butter (not melted). Put into double 
boiler and stir a little. This quantity makes 
two pies. Line a pie tin with nice crust and 
slit the edge an inch apart all round. Pour 
custard into pie crust and turn down every 
other square formed by the slits. Bake in 
quick oven. When done it resembles a sun- 
flower. MRS. E. M. HOAGLAND. 

SEND YOUR NEWLY M 7* R R I E O FRIEND 

K. COJPY OF CRUMBS FROIVT EVERYBODY' 



200 FANCY DESSERTS 

PINEAPPLE MACAROON PUDDING. 

Take a can of pineapple, drain juice from 
it and chop pineapple very fine; add to juice 
an equal amount of water, yolks of two eggs 
well beaten, tablespoonf nl corn starch mixed 
with little water, and vanilla to taste; boil 
juice and when boiling stir in above mixture; 
boil two or three minutes. Take a pudding 
dish, put in layer of macaroons, then layer- 
chopped pineapple, and over it sprinkle sugar; 
then another layer of macaroons, of pineapple, 
and sugar; over this pour the custard. Beat 
whites of eggs to stiff froth, add little sugnr. 
put over pudding and place in oven for few 
minutes. Instead of beaten whites of eggs 
whipped cream can be used, but if used, do not 
put in oven. MRS. D. J. SPENCE. 

DUCHESS PUDDING. 

One-fourth Ib. pearled tapioca soaked over 
night in cold water to cover. In the morning, 
if water is all soaked away, pour on little more 
water, add little salt, boil until clear, then add 
one cupful of sugar, juice of two lemons, and 
one can or one cupful chopped pineapple. Stir 
well and set away to cool. When cold, and 
partially set, add well beaten whites of five 
eggs. Serve with whipped creatn. Sufficient 
for twelve persons. 

MRS. PHILIP OVER, Pacific Grove. 

CREAMED BANANAS. 

Slice bananas and strew with sugar; whip 
a cupful of cream very light, and whip white 
of an egg to stiff froth. Put egg and cream 
together with tablespoonful sugar and pour 



FANCY DESSERTS 201 

over bananas. Peaches are nice served the 
same way. MRS. BATES, Pacific Grove. 

CRANBERRY PUFFS. 

1 pt. of cranberries, 

1 pt. of flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 

1 tea spoonful of salt, 

2 eggs. 

Add enough sweet milk to make a batter 
little thicker than for cakes. Grease six or 
seven teacups thoroughly, fill half full, set in a 
steamer and steam an hour. Perfect puff balls. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

MRS. CHAS. S. BACHELDER. 

ROLEGOES. 

% Ib. sago, 

1 pt. cold water, 

12 ozs. of loaf sugar. 
Boil together till clear, then add apricot 
or any other jam; pour into small cups and 
when quite cold turn out and serve with cus- 
tard in the dish, but do not pour it over the 
moulds. MRS. A. L. MITCHELL. 

ORANGE JELLY BASKETS. 

Take a very sharp knife and make a ring 
around the center of the orange, then a strip 
one inch or less across the top for a handle. 
Remove the section between the handles and 
top; then take a salt spoon and remove with 
it all the pulp. 

FILLING. Make an orange gelatine, fill the 

H. H, Mason, Red Bazaar, Sell's 

Crumbs From Everybody's Table 



202 FANCY DESSERTS 

baskets and cover with grated cocoahut. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. GEO. LITTLE, Pacific Grove. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

Soak one-half box gelatine in cold wa- 
ter to cover it; pour on one cupful boiling wa- 
ter, add juice from a can of whole pineapple, a 
wine glass of white wine, and two tablespoon- 
fuls sugar; place the whole pineapple in the 
dish in which it is to be served; pour jelly over 
it and set it in a cool place until hard. To be 
served with or without whipped cream. 

MRS. C. SIEGHOLD. 

PRUNE JELLY. 

Take one pound of prunes, wash well and 
cover with water. Soak over night. In the 
morning boil in the same water until -soft 
enough to remove the pits. Line a mould with 
the prunes. To the juice add half a cupful or 
more of sugar, juice and rind of two lemons, 
and stick cinnamon to suit taste; boil all to- 
gether. Have ready half a package of 
gelatine dissolved in one-half cupful of water: 
pour into the boiling syrup; strain into the 
mould and put away to cool; when thorough- 
ly cold turn out and serve with whipped cream. 

Miss B. PORTER, S. B. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

3 cupfuls of hot coffee, 
% box of gelatine, 
l / 2 cupful of sugar. 
If fresh coffee is to be made, take one-half 

9END YOUR NEWLY M2S.RR1ED FRIEND 

35. COPY OF CRUMBS FROM EVERY BODY'S XJt *- LK 



FANCY DESSERTS 203 

Cupful of ground coffee and three cupfuls of 
water and make with one egg. 

MRS. G. P. KELLOGG. 

WINE JELLY. 

One-half package of gelatine dissolved in a 
gill of water: add one teacupful sugar and a 
pt. boiling water; stir all together, and add 
juice of one lemon and half a gill of wine; 
strain through a cloth into a mould. 

MRS. WM. BUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

SALTED NUTS. 

Shell, blanch and dry almonds. To blanch 
almonds let them stand in boiling water until 
the husks slip off easily. Crack walnuts and 
pecans carefully to get the unbroken halves of 
kernels. To each cupful thus prepared allow 
a tablespoonful of salad oil or fresh butter; 
heat in a bright tin* stir the nuts in, coating 
them well with it. and set the pan in a moder- 
ately hot oven until the nuts are nice and 
brown. Stir frequently to prevent burning. 
Take them out when colored enough and sift 
fine salt over them liberally. When cold agi- 
tate them sufficiently to shake off superfluous 
salt. MRS. W. J. HILL. 

THE LATEST FAD 

IN COOKING is the making of 

SPANISH DISHES 

This book tells how. All Eastern people are eager 
for the knowledge. Please your friend by sending a 
copy of 

CRUMBS FROM EVERYBODY'S TABLE 



Cakes. 



"With weights atxl measures just :uul tine, 

Ovon of even heat, 
\Vell buttered tins ami quie; nerve., 

Success will be complete." 

Cake should not stand before being baked. 
The richer the cake the more slowly and longer 
it must bake. Streaks in cakes are caused by 
too rapid or unequal baking, unskilful mixing 
or a sudden decrease in heat before cake is 
quite done. 

See that the oven is properly heated; if too 
hot cake will brown too quickly and before the 
inside has commenced to bake; if too cold cake 
will not rise. Small cakes require a hotter 
oven than large ones. An oven can be cooled 
by putting in dish of cold water. 

Baking powder should always be sifted 
once or twice with flour. If soda and cream of 
tartar are used sift the cream of tartar with 
the flour and dissolve soda in the milk, if milk 
is used in the ca,ke, if not. dissolve in teaspoon- 
ful of boiling water and stir into cake before 
adding any of the flour. 

Dried currants before being used should be 
washed in three or four waters, first two warm, 
then spread on coarse cloth to dry. After par- 
tially dry, put cloth in a dripping pan, pour in 
currants, place in a warm oven, leaving door 
open. Stir occasionally; when dry look over 
carefully. Dust with flour, shaking and mix- 



CAKE 205 

ing well; put into colander and shake to re- 
move surplus flour. It is a good plan to wash 
currants in this way when bought, keeping 
them in glass jars, as it is a great convenience 
to have them ready for use. 

Unless cake containing raisins is to be 
cooked a long time it is a good plan to steam 
them by spreading on a plate which will fit in 
your steamer and steam for an hour. This 
makes them more tender and more wholesome 
than if only cooked a short time in a cake. 
Dredge well with flour before using. 

In cakes where a. large number of whites of 
eggs are used, do not beat them too dry and 
stiff else cake will shrink in baking. 

Grease tins, then flour lightly and cake 
will not stick. A pan in which fruit cake is to 
be baked should be well greased, then have 
three or four thicknesses of paper placed on 
bottom and two on sides (paper also greased). 
This prevents them from getting too brown. 
If cakes brown too rapidly cover with thick 
brown paper. 

To test whether a cake is done run a straw 
or broom splint into the thickest part; if done 
the straw will come out clean. Or, if done, 
cake will rise when pressed with finger; also, 
there will be no hissing noise. 

All recipas mu^t b3 changed at a high alti 
tude less butter and less sugar. If a recipe 
calls for half a cupful of butter, a tablespoon- 
ful will be quite sufficient. Half a cupful of 
sugar will answer for a cupful. A sweet cake 
is little more than ordinary bread dough at a 
high altitude. If sweetness is desired cake may 



206 CAKE 

be baked in layers and put together with soft 
icing. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

12 eggs, 4 cupfuls sugar, 
2% cupfuls of butter, 

5 cupfuls flour, sifted before measuring, 
1 cupful of claret wine, 

1% cupfuls of brandy, 
1% cupfuls of rose water, 
3 Ibs. of seedless raisins, 

3 Ibs. of currants, 1 Ib. citron, 

6 Ibs. of walnuts, 

1 can homemade preserved figs,chopped 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
1 teaspoonful of cloves, 

1% teaspoonfuls of mace, 
1 teaspoonful each of ginger, allspice 
and nutmeg, 

4 teaspoonfuls of vanilla, 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix butter, sugar, and eggs together, and 
when well mixed stir in half of the flour. Next 
put in spices, then remainder of flour, then 
fruit, nuts and figs, small quantity at a time 
and have them well floured. Do not use the 
flour that has been measured for cake to flour 
the fruit. Now add the syrup from the pre- 
served figs, then vanilla, brandy, etc., and beat 
thoroughly. Lastly add soda, dissolved, put- 
ting in a little at a time. This will make two 
very large cakes. Recipe for preserved figs 
used in this cake will be found among the 
"fruits." MRS. , Salinas. 

THIS COOK BOOK SOLD TtT H. H. MASON'S 

HBBOXT HOUSE BLOCK, SRLINTtS, CHL, 



CAKE 207 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Y 2 roll of butter, 

4% cupfuls of sifted flour, 

3 cupfuls of golden sugar, 
5 cupfuls of stoned raisins, 

4 cupfuls of currants, 

3 cupfuls citron or mixed peel cut fine, 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
1 tablespoonful of syrup, 

12 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls mixed spice, 

l / 2 cupful of nuts, if liked. 
Mix butter and sugar to a cream. Bake 
three hours in moderate oven with paper on 
bottom and top. MKS J. R. HEBBRON. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cupful of white sugar, 
1 cupful of brown sugar, 

1 cupful each of butter and milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls of molasses, 

4 eggs, 

, 1 small wine glass of wine or brandy, 
4 good cupfuls of flour, 
1 large cupful of raisins, seeded, 

1 cupful of currants, 

% cupful of citron, sliced thin, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
Spices to taste. L. A. S. 

CHEAP FRUIT CAKE. 

Butter size of an egg, stirred to cream. 

1 cupful of sugar, 

1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 

1 cupful of sour milk, 

1% cupfuls of flour, 

1 cupful of chopped raisins, 



208 CAKE 

Bake in slow oven. 

MRS. C. K. TUTTLE, Pacific Grove. 

WEDDING FRUIT CAKE. 

10 eggs, 

5 level cupfuls of brown sugar, 

Y 2 pt. of molasses, 

3 teacupfuls of soft butter, 

1 Ib. each of figs and citron, 

2 Ibs of currants, 

3% Ibs. raisins, 1 lemon, 

1 heaping tablespoonful eiich of cloves, 

cinnamon and mace, 
1 nutmeg, % teaspoonful soda, 
1 qt. of liour. 

This will make two large cakes. Bake 
in moderate oven tvro or three hours. 

MRS. M. II. MERRITT. 

DRIED APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cupful of sugar, 2 eggs, 
% cupful of butter, 
1 cupful of cold coffee, 

4 cupfuls of flour, 

1% teaspoonfuls of soda. 

l / 2 teaspoonful of cloves, 

1 small teaspoonful of cinnamon, 

Y 2 teaspoonful of nutmeg, 

1 cupful of chopped raisins, 

2 cupfuls of dried apples soaked in 

water over night. 

Drain water from the apples and put to 
boil with two cupfuls of molasses and cook un- 
til well preserved. Cream butter and sugar 
and add eggs well beaten. Drain the syrup' 
from the apples and stir into beaten sugar, 



CAKE 209 

etc., then add coffee, flour, soda, spices, and 
lastly the apples and raisins well floured. 
Bake slowly. MRS. FITZELL. 

WHITE FRUITCAKE. 

1 cupful of butter, 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 
4 cupfuls of flour, 

8 eggs, whites only, 

1 cupful grated cocoanut, 

% wine glassful of white wine, 

% wine glassful of brandy, 

% Ib. of citron cut fine, 

Y 2 lb. almonds blanched and chopped fine 

2 l / 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Flour fruit well before adding to cake. 
Water or milk can be used instead of wine or 
brandy. A little preserved lemon peel adds 
to the'flavor.. Miss. CARRIE BROWN. 

FRUIT CAKE, 

1 cupful of brown sugar, 

1 cupful of New Orleans molasses, 

% cupful brandy and filled with coffee, 
10 eggs, 1 qt. of flour, 

2 Ibs. of raisins, 
2% Ibs. of currants, 

% lb. each of citron and butter, 

2 teaspoonfuls of cloves, 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 

1 nutmeg. 

Beat butter, sugar and molasses together, 
add beaten yolks of eggs, then brandy and 
coffee; next flour with two teaspoonfuls of ba- 
king powder, then raisins seeded and finely 



210 CAKE 

chopped, currants and citron, last beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake three hours. 

MRS. E. MAGUIRE. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

4 eggs, 

1% cupfuls of brown sugar, 

1 cupful of sour cream. 
Butter size of an egg, 

2 heaping cupfuls of flour, 

1 cupful each of raisins and currants. 
Sift with the flour one teaspoonful of soda 

and one-half teaspoonful cream tartar. Add 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon and one-half tea- 
spoonful each of cloves, allspice, lemon, vanil- 
la and nutmeg, also a little salt. 

Miss 0. M. JENXE. Santa Cruz. 

NUT CAKE. 

A little more than half pound butter, 
1% cupfuls of white sugar, 

5 eggs, 

Y 2 cupful of syrup, 

2 cupfuls raisins, 1 piece citron, . 

1 cupful almonds and walnuts mixed. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, 

1 teaspoonful each cloves, allspice, 
% teaspoonful of mace, 
1 wine glassful of brandy, 
% teaspoonful of soda, 

3 cupfuls of flour before sifting. 
Bake two hours very slowly. 

MRS. H. HOFFMAN. 

\UT CAKE. 
1 cupful each butter, and sweet milk, 



CAKE 211 

2 cupful s of white sugar, 
4 cupfuls of flour, 
Whites of eight eggs, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
2 cupfuls of chopped nut-meats; walnuts 
almonds, and a few butternuts if 
you like. 

This makes two good-sized cakes, or one 
large one. MRS. H. H. MASON. 

NUT CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of chopped nuts, 

1 cupful each of butter, and water, 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 

3 cupfuls of flour, 

4 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

MRS. E. A. EATON. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of sugar 1 , 

1 cupful of butter jc reamed - 

% cupful of sweet milk, 3 eggs, 

8 cupfuls of sifted flour, 

1 level tablespoonful of mace, 

1 coffee cupful of walnuts, chopped a 

little, 

1 heaping teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der sifted through the flour. 
Fill the cake pans with a la} r er of the cake, 
then a layer of raisins upon that, then strew 
over a handful of nuts, and so on until the 
pan is two-thirds full. Line the pans with well 
buttered paper and bake in a steady but not 
too hot oven. Miss C. REA, Gilroy. 



212 CAKE 

SPICE CAKE. 

One tablespoonful of butter and one cup- 
ful of brown sugar creamed together, one egg, 
one cupful of seedless raisins chopped fine rub- 
bed with one-half cupful of flour, one cupful of 
sour milk, into which stir one teaspoonful of 
soda, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful 
of cloves and cinnamon, or any spices desired. 
MRS. WII,L JACKS, Pacific Grove. 

PORK CAKE. 

One Ib. fat pork chopped fine; pour one- 
half pt. boiling water on it. Add two cupfuls 
sugar, one cupful molasses with one teaspoon- 
ful soda dissolved in it, one Ib.. raisins, one- 
fourth Ib. citron, and two o?s. each of cinna- 
mon, cloves and nutmeg. Flour to make 
proper consistency. MRS. W. J. BLACK. 

COFFEE CAKE 

% cupful of butter, 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 
1 cupful of coffee, 

3 cupfuls of flour, 

1 cupful of raisins, 

2 cupfuls of currants, little citron, 

3 teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, 

1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, all- 
spice and nutmeg, 
l / 2 teaspoonful of cloves. 

MRS. E. B. GABOON, Soquel. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

1 cupful of strong* coffee, 

1 cupful each of sugar and molasses, 

% cupful of butter or lard, 



CAKE 213 

4 cupfuls of flour, 

1 tea spoonful each of soda, cloves and 

ginger, % nu fcmeg, 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
2 cupfuls of raisins, or 

1 cupful each of raisins and currants. 

MRS. JOB WOOD. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

1 cupful of butter, 

1 cupful each of molasses and sugar, 

1 cupful of coffee, 
4 cupfuls of flour, 

4 cupfuls of raisins, 

2 eggs, cinnamon and cloves, 
2 level teaspoonfuls of soda. 

MBS. E. WHITE, Watsonville. 

BROWN STONE FRONT. 

1 cupful of sugar, 
% cupful of butter, 

2 cupt'uls of flour, 
% cupful of milk, 

2 eggs, 2 taaspoonmls baking powder. 
Cream sugar and butter; add whites of 
eggs, then flour and milk, also flavoring and 
baking powder. Take half the mixture and 
bake in square tin. To other half add yolks of 
eggs and half bar chocolate. Bake the same 
size and put frosting between and on top. 

MRS. H. HOFFMAN. 

FRUIT BROWN STONE FRONT. 
White Part. 

1 large cupful white sugar, 
% cupful ea,ch butter and milk, 



214 CAKE 

1% cupfuls of flour. 

Whites of four eggs, 

Lemon flavoring, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Dark Part. 

1 large cupful sugar, 

l / 2 cupful each butter and coffee, 
1% cupfuls of flour, 
Yolks of four eggs, 

% teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, 
allspice, mace, nutmeg, and vanilla 

2 cupfuls fruit of different kinds. 
Bake in rectangular pans; place white 

cake on the dark, and frost with cocoanut 
icing. MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

MARBLE CAKE White Part, 

1% cupfuls of sugar, 

]4 cupful each of butter and sweet milk, 

2 l / 2 teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, 

2% cupfuls of flour, 

Whites of four eggs. 

Dark Part, 

1 cupful of brown sugar, 
l / 2 cupful each of butter and molasses,. 
l / 2 cupful of sour milk, 
% teaspoonful of soda, 
2% cupfuls of flour, 
Yolks of four eggs, 

1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, all- 
spice and nutmeg, 
l / 2 teaspoonful of cloves. 
Bake in slow oven. 

MRS. E. B, CAHOON, Soquel. 



CAKE 215 

DATE CAKE. 

l / 2 cupful of butter, 
1% cupfuls of brown sugar, 
l / 2 cupful of milk, 2 eggs, 
\% cupfuls of flour, 

2 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
% teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
Y> teaspoonful of nutmeg, 
% Ib. dates, stoned and cut into pieces. 
Mix in order given; beat well for five 
minutes. MRS. C. PIODA. 

JAM CAKE. 

% cupful of butter, tt eggs, 

1 cupful of jam, aprirct preferred, 

2 cupfuls of flour, 
1 cupful of sugar, 

1 level teaspoonful of soda, 

3 tablespoonfuls of sour milk, 

1 tablespoonful of cloves and cinnamon, 
% grated nutmeg. 

Bake in layers and spread with boiled 
frosting. MRS. JOHN CLEMENTS. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

% cupful of chocolate, 

% cupful each of milk and butter, 

4 eggs, 

1% cupfuls of sugar, 

1% cupfuls of flour, 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Dissolve chocolate in five tablespoonfuls 

boiling \vater. Beat butter to a cream, add 
sugar gradually, beating all the while; add 



216 CAKE 

yolks, beat again, then add melted chocolate 
and milk, then flour. Give the whole a vigor- 
ous beating, stir carefully into the mixture the 
stiff beaten whites, add vanilla and bake forty- 
five minutes in moderate oven. 

MRS. L. de V. BULLENE. 

POUND CAKE. 

1 Ib. each of flour and sugar, 
% Ib. of butter, 12 eggs, 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
2 teaspoonfuls of extract. 

Cream butter and add flour; beat yolks 
and add sugar; beat whites of eggs to stiff 
froth and add alternately with yolks and su- 
gar to the butter and flour. When all is thor- 
oughly mixed add baking powder and extract. 
Bake in two pans in moderate oven from for- 
ty-five minutes to an hour, and frost with the 
following icing: 

BOILED ICING: 

1 Ib. of powdered sugar, 

% cupful of hot water, 

Whites of three eggs, 

Tea spoonful extract. 

Put sugar and hot water in granite pan 
and boil until syrup will drop hard in cold 
water. Have whites of eggs beaten stiff and 
pour syrup very slowly (while boiling hot) into 
the eggs, stirring all very fast. When syrup 
is all in, beat well and add extract. The 
more the icing is beaten the more gloss it will 
have. MRS. V. D. BLACK. 

MOCK POUND CAKE. 
1% cupfuls of sugar, 



CAKE 217 

I cupful of eggs (5 or 6)' 
3 cupfuls of Hour, 

1% cupfuls of butter. 

Cream butter and flour; beat the eggs well, 
add the sugar and beat well together; then add 
all and beat again. Flavor with a little bran- 
dy, lemon and nutmeg. Bake in moderately 
hot oven as for cup cake or any light cake. 
Miss A. CAMPBELL, San Francisco. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

II eggs (whites), 

1% cupfuls of granulated sugar, 

1 cupful of flour, 

1 tea-spoonful cream of tartar, 

1 teaspoonful extract bitter almond. 
Sift sugar and flour each four times before 
measuring; beat whites to stiff froth. Put su- 
gar in sieve and shake a little at a time into 
eggs, stirring very gently; sift in flour same 
way; add flavoring. Put in pan without 
grease or lining; bake in moderate oven forty 
minutes; keep covered first twenty minutes. 
When done turn upside down and place on 
cups so that current of air \vill pass over and 
under it. MRS. P. KROUGH. 

YELLOW CAKE. 

7 eggs (yolks), 

1 large cupful of sugar, 
Y 2 cupful of milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
1% cupfuls of flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Stir butter, sugar and eggs ten minutes; 
sift baking powder with flour and add to the 



218 CAKE 

t 

above; add milk and stir five minutes more; 
flavor to taste; bake in four layers and spread 
following icing between and on top: 

ICING: Beat yolks of four eggs, add juice 
of one small lemon and thicken with powdered 
sugar to spread well. This is very nice to pre- 
pare after making angel cake as it will dispose 
of the yolks. 

MRS. WM. BUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 
PART I. 

1 cupful of brown sugar, 
% cupful of butter, 
1 cupful of sweet milk, 
3 eggs (yolks), 

1 teaspponful of soda, 

2 cupfuls of flour. 

PAKT II. 

1 cupful of brown sugar, 
1 cupful of grated chocolate, 
Y 2 cupful of sweet milk, 
Flavor with vanilla. 

Put part II on the stove, using a double 
boiler, and let it come to a boil, then cool and 
mix with part I. Bake in layers and put the 
ollowing chocolate icing between: 

ICING: 6 rounded tablespoonfuls of grated 

chocolate, 
1% cupfuls of powdered sugar, 

3 eggs (whites). 

Beat the whites but very little, stir in the 
chocolate, then pour in the sugar gradually, 
beating well; set on the stove and let it boil a 
little. MRS. J. J. KELLY. 



CAKE 219 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

% cupful of butter, 
2 cupfuls of brown sugar, 
2 eggs, pinch of salt, 
% cupful of sour milk, 
% cake of chocolate, 
% cupful of hot water, 

1 teaspoonful of soda sifted with three 

cupfuls of flour. 

Bake in layers and spread between follow- 
ing 

FILLING: 2 cupfuls of brown sugar, 
% cupful each of cream and butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls of chocolate, 
Cook until thick. 

MRS. F. N. NOBLE, Pacific Grove. 

LIZZIE'S CUP CAKE. 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 
2% cupfuls of flour, 
% cupfuls of corn starch, 
4 eggs, beaten separately, 
% cupful butter, 1 cupful milk, 
1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar; add yolks of the 
eggs; beat all well together; add whites of the 
eggs last. MRS. G. P. FAW. 

FOUR HUNDRED CAKE, 

1 cupful of sugar, 

% cupful each of butter and milk, 

2 cupfuls of flour, 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 

3 eggs, reserving white of one for frost- 

ing. 
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks; 



220 CAKE 

next the milk, then stir- in one cupful of flour 
and beat five minutes; add the other cup of 
flour with baking powder sifted with it. and 
stir three minutes. Last add whites of eggs, 
stirring them in gently. Flavor to taste. 

MRS. WM. SUTTOX, Pacific Grove. 

WORLD'S FAIR CAKE. 

1% cupfuls of sugar, 

% cupful each of butter and milk, 

1% cupfuls of flour, 

3 eggs beaten separately. 

1 large teaspoonral of baking powder. 

Dissolve six tablespoonfuls chocolate, and 
one tablespoonful sugar in two tablespoonfuls 
scalded milk, and add to mixture and bake in 
large flat pan. 

FROSTING: Boil two cupfuls sugar, three- 
fourths cupful milk, and butter size of an egg, 
fifteen minutes; pour into a bowl, stir rapidly 
until it thickens, then add one tablespoonful of 
vanilla. MRS. W. E. PECK, Santa Cruz. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

2% cupfuls of sugar, 
% cupful of butter, 

4 eggs, 

1 cupful of milk, 

4 even cupfuls of flour, flavoring, 

2 teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. 

This quantity is sufficient for a small loaf 
and a three layer cake. MRS. M. MCHARRY. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

Cream with the hand one cupful of sugar, 
one-half cupful of butter, add one-half 



CAKE 221 

cupful of milk and one-half cupful of corn 
starch mixed together; yolks of three eggs, 
one and one-halt 7 cupfuls of flour, with two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, and last whites- of 
three eggs. Flavor with lemon; frost with boiled 
frosting. MRS. H. E. ABBOTT. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs well beaten, 

1 cupful of sugar, 

% cupful of butter, 

1 cupful of sweet milk, 

3 cupfuls of flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 

Flavor with extract of lemon. 

MRS. T. S. MABEL. 

WHITE CAKE (My Mother's Recipe). 

1 cupful of sweet milk, 

2 cupfuls of white sugar, 
% cupful of butter, 

1% cupfuls each flour and .corn starch, 
Whites of four eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth a,dcled last, 

1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 

% teaspoonful soda, flavor to taste. 
MRS. S. W. CONKLIN. 

WHITE CAKE. 

8% cupfuls of flour, 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 

1 cupful each of butter and milk, 
10 whites of eggs or 5 w'hole ones, 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 

First put sugar in a pan; put in flour, then 
cream of tartar; mix altogether thoroughly. 



222 CAKE 

Make a hole in center of these ingredients, put 
in the eggs, without beating, and mix well; 
add milk, having first put in soda; the last 
thing add butter, having first beaten it to a 
cream; flavor to taste; equally nice without. 

MRS. S. F. Dixox. 

WHITE PERFECTION CAKE. 

3 cupfuls of flour, 

1 cupful of corn starch, 

3 cupfuls of sugar, 

1 cupful each of butter and milk, 
Whites of 12 eggs beaten to stiff froth, 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar in flour, 
1 teaspoonful soda in half the milk. 

Dissolve corn starch in remainder of milk, 
and add it to the sugar and butter well beaten 
together, then the milk, soda, flour and the 
w T hites of eggs. This cake is rightly named. 

MRS. H. HOFFMAN. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

1 small cupful of butter, 

3 cupfuls of sugar, 

% cupful of sweet milk, 

3% cupfuls of flour, 

10 whites of eggs 

3 small teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
This makes a fine loaf or a layer cake. 
If made in layer, bake in deep jelly tins and 
prepare an icing of one pound of pulverized su- 
gar and whites of three eggs. One-half this 
recipe makes a good sized cake. 

MRS. WM. SUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

1 Ib. of flour, 



CAKE 223 

1 lb. of sugar, 

Y 2 lb. of butter, 6 eggs, 

1 cupful of milk, 

1 small teaspoonful of soda dissolved 

in the milk. 

Bake in four layers. Put together with 
frosting, even the edges with a knife, frost top 
and sides and the "White Mountain" is 
finished. MES. S. W. CONKLIN. 

WHITE SNOW CAKE 

7 eggs (whites). 

1% cupfuls of pulverized sugar, 

2 cupfuls of flour, 

% cupful of corn starch, 

% cupful each of milk and butter. 

I teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Mix butter and sugar to a cream; sift corn 
starch and flour together twice; flavor with 
almond extract. MRS. C. M. HANSEN. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Thoroughly beat together one cupful of 
sugar and one-half cupful of butter. Add one- 
half cupful of milk, two cupfuls of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and whites of 
four eggs well beaten. Place one or two Rose 
Geranium leaves in bottom of the baking pan, 
cover with greased tissue paper and pour in 
the cake. Flavor the frosting with extract of 
rose. MRS. G. S. HAMILTON, Pacific Grove. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

II eggs (whites), 
6 eggs (yolks), 

1% cupfuls of granulated sugar meas- 



224 CAKE 

ured after one sifting, 
1 cupful of flour measured after one 

sifting, 

1 teaspoonful of orange extract, 
1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 
Beat whites to a stiff froth and gradually 
beat in sugar; beat yolks in a similar manner 
and add to them the whites, sugar, and flavor- 
ing; finally stir in the flour, mix quickly and 
well; bake fifty minutes in slow oven. 

MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

SUNNY SIDE CAKE. 

6 eggs, 

1 cupful each of butter, and milk, 

2 l / 2 cupfuls of sugar, 

4 cupfuls of flour, 

3 teaspoonfuls of ba-king pow r der. 
This makes a very large cake. For half 
rule make in three layers; in middle one put 
in cupful chopped raisins. Put together with 
icing. MRS. G. P. KELLOGG. 

NOEA (JAKE. 

1 cupful of butter, 

1% cupfuls of sugar, 

Y 2 cupful of milk, 

2% cupfuls of flour, 

6 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful of baking pow r der, 

Flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. JOHN CLEMENTS. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

1 egg, 

Butter size of an egg, 

1 cupful each of sugar and milk, 



CAKE 225 

2 cupfuls of flour, 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 

Flavor with almond. 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg, 
then milk and flour a little at a time, first one 
then the other, beating thoroughly, sifting the 
baking powder with the flour. Bake in a thin 
loaf, slowly. Use a cooked frosting; cut in 
squares. MRS. C. SIEGHOLD. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

3 whites of eggs, 
1 cupful of sugar, 

% cupful each of butter and milk, 
y 2 cupful of corn starch, 
1 cupful of flour, 
1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Beat the eggs to a froth and add last. 

MRS. C. M. GILFILLAN. 

LOAF CAKE. 

1 cupful each of butter, raisins and 

sweet milk, 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 

4 cupfuls of flour, 
4 eggs, 

% teaspoonful of baking powder, 
Flavoring to taste, omitting the raisins. 

MRS. S. W. CONKLIN. 

LOAF CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

3 eggs, 

1% cupfuls of sugar, 

Y 2 cupful of butter, 

% cupful sweet milk, 

1% cupfuls of flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 



226 CAKE 

Dissolve ten tablespoonfuls grated choco- 
late in a little of the measured milk, add vanil- 
la to flavor. Put three tablespoonfuls sugar 
and two of milk (from the cup of milk) on the 
stove to boil. Add the hot milk and sugar to 
chocolate, stirring hard to make smooth, and 
add to batter last thing. 

ICING: Dissolve in one-half cupful boiling 
water three-fourths cupful grated chocolate, 
add one and one-half cupfuls sugar and boil; 
just before done add butter size of walnut. 
Cook until it shapes in water, then stir until it 
thickens. MRS. J. R. MASON, 

New \Vhatcorn, Wash. 

POTATO CAKE. 

6 eggs, pinch of salt, 

% Ib. cold boiled potatoes, grated, 

Y 2 lb. sugar sifted three times, 

1 teaspooriful of cinnamon. 
l / 2 teaspooiiful of allspice. 

Beat yolks well, add sugar gradually, then 
potato, and lastly well beaten whites, spices, 
etc. Grease pans well and sprinkle with flour, 
line with greased and floured paper. Bake in 
two lavers thirtv-five minutes in moderate 

.' V 

OA r en. Just before serving put together with 
whipped cream. MRS. THOS. HUGHES. 

LANCASTER BEAUTY. 

6 eggs beaten separately, 

3 cupfuls of sugar. 

2 cupfuls of butter, 

1 cupful of sweet milk, 

1 even teaspoonful of nutmeg, 

4 cupfuls of thoroughly sifted flour 



CAKE 227 

with one teaspoonful of baking powder in it. 

EDNA MASON. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

This is the most perfect of sponge cakes 
when properly made. 

Ingredients: Ten eggs, one pound of pul- 
verized sugar, half pound of flour, juice of half 
large lemon, with the rind grated. 

After all the ingredients are quite ready, 
i. e., the flour and sugar sifted, the lemon peel 
grated, the half lemon squeezed, and the tins 
buttered, the success of this cake is in the beat- 
ing of the eggs. Two persons should beat 
them at least half an hour, one beating the 
whites and the other the yolks and half the 
sugar together. Next put the yolks into the 
whites, then stir in lightly the remainder of 
the sugar, then the flour and lemon by de- 
grees. 

The oven heat should be rather moderate 
at first. Much of the success depends upon 
this, as the batter should be evenly heated 
throughout before it begins to rise. When 
baked spread over the cakes a wafer thickness 
of icing slightly flavored with vanilla. 

MRS. U. HARTNELL. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

1% cupfuls of white sugar, 

2 cupfuls of flour, 

4 eggs, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Beat eggs and sugar to a cream, adding 
an egg at a time till all are beaten; put in the 
baking powder, then add two-thirds cupful of 



228 CAKE 

boiling water. Bake fifteen minutes. 

MRS. S. W. CONKLIN. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

1 cupful of sugar, 

2 eggs-well beaten, 

1 cupful of flour rounded full and 

measured before sifting, 
% cupful of boiling water, 
A pinch of salt, flavor to taste. 
% teaspoonful baking powder, 
Beat eggs and sugar, add flour which has 
been sifted with baking powder two or three 
times; then add water and beat thoroughly; 
when placed in the cake pan sift a little sugar 
over the top and bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. H. J. BALL, San Jose. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat three eggs one minute, add one and 
one-half cupfuls sugar, beat five minutes; one 
cupful flour, a little salt and flavoring, beat 
one minute; one-half cupful cold water, one 
cupful flour with heaping teaspoonful baking 
powder, beat all together one minute or 
longer. Miss 0. M. JENNE, Santa Cruz. 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

6 eggs, leaving out the whites of three, 

1 cupful boiling water, 

2 l / 2 cupfuls flour, 

1 tablespoonful baking powder, put 

into the flour. 

Beat yolks a little, add sugar and beat 
fifteen minutes; add three beaten whites and 
boiling water just before the flour. Flavor 



CAKE 229 

with teaspoonful lemon extract and bake in 
three layers, putting- between them icing made 
by adding to the three whites of eggs beaten 
to stiff froth, six dessert spoonfuls pulverized 
sugar to each egg, and lemon to flavor. 

MRS. M. E. HOOLE, Pacific Grove. 

MOCHA CAKE. 

1 cupful of suo-ar 1 -, 
y 2 cupful of butter) creamed > 
% cupful of milk, 

2 cupfuls of flour, 

1 heaping teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

FILLING A slice one-half inch thick of sweet 
unsalted butter, creamed with one cupful pow- 
dered sugar until you cannot taste the sugar. 
Then add beaten yolks of two eggs, and slowly 
one-fourth cupful strong hot coffee. Beat all 
together well. 

ICING Four tablespoonfuls black coffee to 
one cupful sugar boiled until it hairs; then pour 
on to beaten white of an egg. Beat until stiff 
enough to spread. MRS. L. C. SANFORD, 

San Francisco. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE-(Layer). 

5 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 

little boiling water, 

2 cupfuls of sugar, 
2 l / 2 cupfuls of flour, 

1 cupful each of sour milk and butter, 

l / 2 cake of chocolate grated and put into 

the cake before stirring in the flour. 



230 CAKE 

Bake in four layers and put together with 
following filling: 
FILLING 

1 Ib. of sugar wet with little cold water, 
3 whites of eggs, slightly beaten and 

added to sugar, 
l / 2 cake of grated chocolate. 
Cook over boiling water until it thickens. 

MRS. E. L. BAKER. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE (Layer). 

2 cupfuls brown sugar, 

% cupful each butter and sweet milk, 

2 eggs, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar, 

% teaspoonful of soda. 

Flavor with vanilla. 

Dissolve two squares of chocolate in one- 
half cupful boiling water; let it stand to get 
cool, then stir in before adding the milk, flour, 
and eggs. Bake in layers and put together 
with white frosting-. MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 cupful each sugar and sweet milk, 
Small half cupful butter, 

2 eggs. 

2 large teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
sifted into two cupfuls of flour and 
added last. 

Take one-half cake chocolate, one cupful 
sugar, one-half cupful of sweet milk, and yolk 
of one egg and cook in double boiler until it 
thickens: when cold stir into cake before you 
add flour. It is best to prepare this part first. 



CAKE 231 

FILLING: 

2% cupful s sugar. 

% cupful water. 

Boil together till it candies, then add 
whites of three eggs well beaten; when cold put 
between layers of cake; any flavoring can be 
used. MRS. H. M. STANTON. 

FRUIT LAYER CAKE. 

1 cupful of sugar, 
% cupful of butter, 
1% cupfuls of flour. 
% cupful of sherry wine, 

1 cupful of raisins, 

2 eggs, 

1% teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Bake in three layers, and put frosting be- 
tween, made of whites of two eggs thickened 
with powdered sugar. MRS. W. 0. WATERS. 

FR1UT LAYER CAKE. 

1 cupful flour, 3 eggs, 
1 scant .cupful sugar, 

1 tabjespoonful melted butter, 
4 tablespoonfuls milk, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful vanilla; 

Bake in two layers. Make boiled icing and 
flavor with vanilla;. Put strawberries, sliced 
oranges with a little cocoanut sprinkled over 
them, bananas, cocoanut, grated chocolate, or 
walnuts between the layers and on the icing. 

MRS. JOB WOOD. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

l / 2 cupful of butter, 



232 CAKE 

1% cupfuls of sugar, 

White sof six, or three whole eggs, 

1 cupful of sweet milk, 
2% cupfuls of flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking po\vder, 
Bake in three layers. 

FILLING One cupful sugar and four table- 
spoonfuls water boiled till clear. Stir quickly 
into it the beaten white of one egg, and add 
one-half cupful raisins seeded and chopped fine, 
and one-half cupful chopped hickory nut meats. 

MRS. H. M. JOHNSON. 

CAKE WITH ALMOND FILLING. 

4 eggs, 

3 cupfuls of flour. 
2 cupfuls of sugar, 

1 cupful of milk, 

% cupful of butter, 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 
1 teaspoonfnl of soda. 

Beat eggs; cream butter and sugar; sift- 
cream of tartar into flour, and dissolve soda 
in the milk. Bake in eight thin layers. 

FILLING: Blanch and chop finely one Ib. 
of almonds, mix with one teacupful sugar, the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, and one-half pt. 
thick sour cream. Lastly add whites of eggs 
beaten to thick froth with vanilla to taste. 
This cake is better the second day, and keeps 
nicely for a week. Miss PERRY, Monterey. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

1 cupful sugar, fine crushed, 
l / 2 cupful each butter and milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

1% teaspoonfuls of baking powder (not 



CAKE 233 

too full), 
5 whites of eggs. 

Cream sugar and butter thoroughly, add 
milk, then one cupful of flour, then eggs and 
remainder of flour. Flavor with vanilla and 
lemon or a little sherry wine. 

FILLING: Boil two cupfuls brown sugar or 
part maple syrup and one cupful sweet cream, 
(thin) until you can roll it in the fingers when 
dropped in water. Pour in a dish, add a tea- 
spoonful of butter and beat until it is a light 
brown; flavor- with vanilla. Place between 
two layers of cake and ice top with the boiled 
icing. MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

FRENCH CREAM CAKE. 

3 eggs, 1 cupful sugr.r. 
1% cupfuls flour, 

2 teaspoonfuis baking powder, 

3 tablespoonfuls water. 

Beat sugar and eggs together, mix flour 
and baking powder and add to the above, 
then water. Bake in two pie tins making two 
cakes. 

CREAM FILLING: Take nearly a pt. of milk, 
heat, and when nearly boiling add two small 
tablespoonfuls corn starch wet with little cold 
milk, two eggs beaten with cupful sugar; cook 
and stir it all the time until it thickens 
enough to drop from a spoon without running. 
Remove from stove, add half teacupful melted 
butter; when cool add two tablespoonfuls var 
nilla. Turn out cakes on moulding board and 
split with sharp knife; spread cream between 
each cake, If you want but one cake the rest 
will make a jelly roll; otherwise it makes two 



234 CAKE 

cakes. Take half the recipe for filling when 
only one cake is split. MRS. G. P. KELLOGG. 

CREAM WALNUT CAKE. 

1 l / 2 cupfuls sugar, 

% cupful each butter and sweet milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow r der, 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Whites of six eggs. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add 
milk, then flour with baking powder thor- 
oughly mixed; then whites of eggs beaten to 
stiff froth. Bake in three layers. Put togeth- 
er with icing a thick laver of walnut meats 

<_> t u 

between the layers, also on top. A teaspoon- 
ful of thick sweet cream greatly improves the 
icing. MRS. E. MAGUIRE. 

JENNY LYNDE CAKE. 
White Part. 

Whites of five eggs, well beaten, 

1 cupful each butter, and milk, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

3 cupfuls flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted 
with the flour. 

Dark Part. 

1 cupful each butter, and milk, 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

3 cupfuls or more of flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 

1 teaspoonful cloves, 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 

1 cupful each raisins, currants, citron, 



CAKE 235 

Lemon and orange peel to taste, 
Yolks of five eggs and as many more 

as YOU use whites for frosting. 
Bake in layers and* put together alter- 
nately with frosting, with jelly cut up in that 
between layers. MRS. CHERI HEBERT. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs, 

1% cupfuls sugar, 

% cupful each butter, and cornstarch, 

% cupful milk, 

1% cupfuls flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Divide in four equnl parts. To one part 

add a small half teaspoonful of all kinds of 
spices and a handful of currants; one part 
colored pink, and the other two baked as they 
are. Put chocolate between one white and 
the pink jelly between the pink and brown, and 
cocoanut and walnut meats between brown 
and white layers. MRS. A. J ABBOTT. 

LAYER CAKE. 

3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten sepa- 

rately, 

1 cupful sugar sifted twice, 
Butter size of a walnut, and stirred 

thoroughly with sugar, 
5 tablespoonfuls milk, 

1 cupful flour before sifting, 

2 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking- 

powder, sifted twice with flour. 
Add whites last, beaten to a stiff froth; 
flavor to taste; bake in layers; any good cake 
filling may be used. MRS. 0. S. TRIMMER, 

Pacific Grove. 



236 CAKE 

WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

3 cupfuls flout-, 
1 cupful milk, 

l / 2 cupful butter, 
Whites of five eggs, 
- 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Cream butter and sugar, then add milk 
and sifted ftour, and last whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff. MRS. C. F. LACEY. 

LEMON LAYER CAKE. 

1 ctipful sugar, 2 eggs, 
% cupful sweet milk, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 heaping cupful flour, 
Flavor with lemon. 

Beat whites of eggs separately and put in 
last with baking powder; this makes four lay- 
ers. Put together with the following- 

FILLING: 

1 cupful each of sugar and water. 

Let come to a boil, then thicken with one 
teaspoonful corn starch. AVhen cool add juice 
of one lemon and little rind, grated. Sprinkle 
each layer with cocoanut. Make soft frosting 
with white of one egg and sprinkle with cocoa- 
nut. MRS. G. S. HAMILTON, Pacific Grove. 

MARSH MALLOW CAKE. 

. 1% cupfuls of sugar, 
% cupful of biitter, 
l / 2 cupful of milk, 

2 full cupfuls of flour, 



CAKE 237 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Whites of four eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, add whites of 
beaten to froth, then milk, and lastly 
Hour and baking powder well mixed. Bake in 
layers. 

FILLING: Boil one cupful sugar, three- 
fourths cupful water, and a. small pinch of 
cream of tartar until it threads, then pour- 
over the beaten whites of two eggs, and add 
15c worth of pink and white marsh mallow 
candy. Flavor a little with vanilla and spread 
between layers. MRS. H. FRY. 

MARSH MALLOW CAKE. 

Beat three-fourths of a pound of butter 
with one and one-half cupfuls of sugar to a 
cream; to this add one cupful of hot water and 
two cupfuls of flour; beat all together five 
minutes; add to this mixture two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder in one-half cupful of flour; 
next whites of four, eggs beaten stiff; bake in 
three layers. 

FILLING: To one ounce of gum Arabic add 
four tablespoonfuls of cold water; let stand 
one-half hour then put cup in boiling water and 
stir until gum is dissolved; strain through 
cheese cloth into double boiler and add four 
ounces powdered sugar; stir twenty minutes, 
remove and stir until stiff; heat the mixture 
until scalding hot, remove and add quickly 
one teaspoonml vanilla and beaten whites of 
two eggs; when cool put between layers. 

MRS. V. D. BLACK. 

ECONOMICAL CAKE, 

1 cupful sugar, 



238 CAKE 

% cupful butter, 

% cupful sweet milk, 

2 cupfuls flour, 

3 whites of eggs, 

1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder. 
Bake in two layers; ice with following 
FROSTING: 

2 yolks of eggs, 

% cupful white sugar, little vanilla . 
Beat twenty minutes and spread between 
layers and on top. MRS. GEO. HUNTER. 

PEACH BLOSSOM CAKE. 

5 eggs, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

1 cupful each butter and milk, 

3 cupfuls flour, 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs beat- 
en lightly, then milk and flour. Flavor with 
extract of peach. Bake in two square sponge 
tins in moderately rapid oven. When done 
sandwich with finely grated cocoanut and pink 
sugar. Frost with clear icing sprinkled with 
pulverized pink sugar. MRS. E. MAGUIRE. 

. ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

3 eggs, 

1 cupful sugar, 
1% cupfuls flour, 
5 tablespoonfuls sweet milk, 
% teaspoonful soda, 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar, 
Butter size of a walnut. 
Beat whites and yolks separately and put 
whites in the last thing; put jelly on while 



CAKE 239 

warm; bake in pan 14x16 in., or two smaller 
tins. If too thick it will not roll well. Baking 
powder can be used, but cake will not roll as 
well. MRS. M. L. DEXTER. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. 

Put a cupful boiling water and half cupful 
butter in saucepan on stove, when it boils stir 
in pt. of flour, beating well with potato mash- 
er until velvety to the touch. Remove from 
fire and when cool add five well beaten eggs, 
little at a time; beat twenty minutes and 
spread in oblong pieces about three inches by 
one, in a baking pan. Bake twenty-five min- 
utes in a quick oven and ice with the following. 
Two squares chocolate, five tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar and three tablespoonfuls boil- 
ing water stirred over fire until smooth and 
glossy. When ready to serve cut open and 
fill with the following: Put in double boiler 
one and a half cupfuls milk, and stir into it 
two-thirds cupful sugar, two eggs, one-fourth 
cupful flour, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, and 
cook about fifteen minutes. 

MRS. W. S. PIERSON. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

3 eggs 

Y 2 cupful butter, 

1 cupful each sifted flour and hot water. 
Put water and butter on stove and when 
boiling mix in sifte'd flour; take from stove 
and stir to a paste; when cool, stir in eggs 
without beating, one at a time; stir five min- 
utes. Drop in tablespoonfuls in buttered pan, 
allowing some little space between each cake. 
Bake in hot oven twenty-five minutes being 



240 CAKE 

careful not to open door too often. When 
done, and cold, cut a slit in cakes and fill with 
either whipped cream or the following- 
Custard: 

1 egg, 

1 cupful of milk, 

% cupful sugar, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, little vanilla. 

Stir sugar and egg well together; heat 
milk in double boiler and when scalding hot 
take from stove and pour gradually over su- 
gar and egg, stirring all the time; return to 
lire and add flour wet up in little milk; cook 
until thick being careful to remove before it 
curdles; add flavoring and when cold put into 
cakes. MBS. A. W. ANDERSON, 

Pacific Grove. 

NUT CAKE MACAROONS. 

The whites of three eggs beaten to stiff 
froth and mixed with cupful of chopped walnuts. 
Add one-fourth cupful sugar and four sticks of 
chocolate, grated or ground. Drop in spoon- 
fuls and bake five minutes in rather hot oven. 

MRS. D. J. SPENCE. 

MACAROONS. 

1 Ib. each sugar and shelled almonds, 
Whites of four eggs. 

Blanch almonds and pound to a paste. 
Beat eggs perfectly light; and add sugar and 
nuts. Bake in small cakes in slow oven. 

ALICE BALL, San Jose. 

MACAROONS. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to stiff 



CAKE 241 

froth, 

l / 2 lb. of powdered sugar, 
Y 2 lb of desiccated cocoanut, 
Y 2 pt. rolled and sifted crackers, 
1 teaspoonful extract bitter almonds. 
Drop on buttered paper in a dripping pan 
and brown lightly. 

Miss G. F. WOODCOCK, Upper Lake. 

COCOANUT HILL CAKES. 

The whites of three eggs beaten until stiff; 
add two cuprals of cocoanut and three-fourths 
of a cupful of sugar; bake a few minutes in a 
rapid oven. MRS. D. J. SPENCE. 

MARGUERITES. 

To one pt. of boiled cake frosting add one- 
half lb. finely chopped walnuts; spread upon 
saline crackers and brown in the oven. 

MRS. B. L. HOLLENBECK, Pacific Grove. 

SUGAR KISSES. 

Beat whites of eleven eggs until stiff, add 
gradually one lb. pow r dered sugar, and beat 
again for about two minutes. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla and stir well. Squeeze out of 
paper cornucopia in snake form. Bake one 
hour and a half in moderate oven. (Don't 
close oven door). MRS. J. J. THOMPSON. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

' One qt. flour and one-half lb. butter mixed. 
Add one cupful sugar, one cupful molasses, 
one teaspoonful ginger and one-half teaspoon- 
ful each of cloves and cinnamon. Roll very thin 



242 CAKE 

and bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. C. L. PIODA. 

GINGR SNAPS, 

1 cupful each of molasses and sugar, 

Y 2 cupful each butter and lard, 

1 teaspoonful soda stirred in molasses, 

1 small tablespoonful of ginger, 
Pinch of black pepper. 

Mix very stiff with flour. Currants, rai- 
sins, citron and other spices may be added 
which greatly improves the snaps. Are better 
at the end of second week. MES. H. FRY. 

ENGLISH GINGER SNAPS. 

2 teacupfuls of flour, 

1 level tablespoonful of ginger, 
1 cupful each of butter and sugar, 
1% cupfuls of syrup. 

Put ginger in the flour and rub in butter 
until well mixed, then put in sugar, then syrup 
and mix well until smooth. Take a greased 
tin and spread a teaspoonful of the dough 
three inches apart. Bake in moderate oven 
and watch carefully until a light brown. Do 
not be alarmed at seeing them boil and bubble 
while they are in the oven; when baked, cool a 
little, and while still soft take from tin and 
place them over a round stick .about the size 
of broom handle until cold; this will give them 
a curved appearance. Keep air tight. 

MRS. J. W. ROWLING. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

1 cupful butter,. 

Y 2 cupful lard, 

1 cupful each sugar, and molasses, 



CAKE 243 

1 grated nutmeg, 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 
Place on stove to get warm; remove, add 
three eggs, tablespoonful soda and flour to 
roll; very nice if one wishes to add cupful chop- 
ped walnuts. MRS. C. M. HANSEN. 

GINGER DROP CAKES. 

1 cupful each molasses and sugar, 

1 cupful butter, 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 
Put these in a basin, let boil, then cool and 
add one tablespoonful soda, one cupful boiling- 
water, one teaspoonful cinnamon; stir in flour 
to make stiff batter so _ that it will not run. 
Drop in tablespoonfuls in buttered tins, giving 
plenty of room; bake in hot oven. C. D. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Y 2 cupful New Orleans syrup, 

l / 2 cupful each butter, and sugar, 

% cupful sour or butter milk, 

1 teaspoonful of soda, 

2 teaspoonful s cream tartar, 
Ginger to taste; flour to thicken. 

MRS. S. W. CONKLIN. 

GINGER BREAD. 

1 cupful of drippings or butter, 

1% cupfuls of syrup, 

1 cupful of sugar, 2 eggs. 
Mix thoroughly, add one cupful butter- 
milk, one large spoonful each of ginger and 
cinnamon, little nutmeg, allspice and cloves. 
Sift with flour one large spoonful soda and 
stir as thick as possible. MRS. E. L. BAKER. 



244 CAKE 

GINGER BREAD. 

1 tablespoonful of butter, 
1 tablespoonful of lard, 
1 tea spoonful of ginger, 
% cupful of sugar, 1 egg, 
% cupful of N. 0. molasses. 
Into which stir until foaming one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one and a half cupfuls of 
sifted flour; beat w'ell,, and add one-half cupful 
of boiling water. Bake twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven. MRS. WM. JOHNSON, 

Santa Cruz. 
FRUIT GINGER BREAD. 

1 cupful of butter, 

1 cupful of sugar, 

1 cupful of molasses, 

1 cupful of milk, 

4 cupfuls of flour, 1 egg, 

1 teaspoonful of ginger, 

3 teaspoonrals of baking powder, 

Raisins and nuts to suit. 

MRS. J. P. PARKER, Santa Cruz. 

DOUGHNUTS. . 

Y 2 cupful sugar, 

1 egg well beaten, 

2 tablespoonfuls melted lard, 

A little over half cupful sour milk, 
% teaspoonful soda, little salt. 
Season with nutmeg or cinnamon. 
Flour to make as soft a dough as can be 
rolled. Fry in plenty of hot lard. 

MRS. M. L. DEXTER. 

CHRISTMAS DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cupful white sugar, 



CAKE 245 

1 cupful new milk, 

2 eggs, 

3 ta.blespoonfuls butter, 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar, 
% of a teaspoonful of soda, 

l / 2 teaspoonful salt, flour to roll well, 
Flavor with grated nutmeg or cinna- 
mon, 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs ,and beat 
well; stir in milk and flour in which soda and 
cream of tartar have been sifted. Cut in rings 
and fry in hot lard. Dropped in spoonfuls is 
equally nice. MRS. S. W. CONKLIN. 

FINE DOUGHNUTS. 

2 eggs, 

4 cupfuls flour, 

1 cupful sugar, 
Butter size of a walnut, 

2 teaspoonfuls yeast powder. 

Mix ingredients together; add enough milk 
to make batter stiff enough to roll out; fry in 
hot lard. MRS. M. McHARRY. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Three eggs well beaten with one cupful su- 
gar, and five teaspoonfuls melted lard; add 
one cupful sweet milk, one teaspoonful baking 
powder, and flour to make soft dough; fry in 
deep hot lard. MRS. H. M. JOHNSON. 

CRULLERS. 

4 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

3 tablespoonfuls of milk, 
Butter size of a walnut, 



246 CAKE 

A little soda, flour to roll out. 
Beat eggs, add sugar, then butter, milk 
-and soda. Cut with cake cutter and out hole 
in center with small cutter. Fry in hot lard 
like doughnuts. MRS. D . 

SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

% Ib. each of butter and sugar, 

% Ib. of flour, 

1 egg. 

Beat butter, sugar and egg to a cream; 
add flour and mix well. Roll out on a smooth 
board and cut with a wine glass or anything 
equally as small. Remove from board with a 
knife and bake in rapid oven. Do not add any 
more flour to the dough, but put a little on 
board to roll out. MRS. CHAS. HUDSON. 

BACHELOR BUTTONS. 

1 cupful of sugar, 

% cupful each of butter and flour, 

1 egg. 

Flavor with almond, roll in small cakes 
size of a marble. Dip in sugar and bake. 

MRS. J. B. BENNETT. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 

% Ib. brown sugar, 

l / 2 Ib. walnuts, grated or chopped fine, 

% teaspoonful baking powder, 

2 eggs, a pinch of salt. 

Beat the eggs well, add sugar and three 
even tablespoonfuls of flour, and last of all 
add the walnuts. Drop on buttered paper 
and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

MRS. SUSIE J. HARRIS, Santa Cruz. 



CAKE 247 

WALNUT WAFERS. 

1 lb. of brown sugar, 2 eggs, 
4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 
l / 2 cupful of grated chocolate, 
l / 2 cupful of walnuts chopped fine. 
Bake in buttered tins until a nice brown, 
MKS. JOHN CLEMENTS. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

1 ego-. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

% cupful sour cream, 
1 cupful butter, 
% tea spoonful soda, 
4 cupfuls flour. 

Sen son with nutmeg and lemon, or cara- 
way seeds. MHS. C. F. LACEV. 

WALNUT COOKIES. 

1 cupful each sugar and molasses, 
% cupful butter, 
1 egg, % teaspoonful salt, 
% cupful sour cream, 
1 cupful chopped walnuts, 
1 teaspoonful soda, 
Flour to roll. 

In place of sour cream, one can use one 
cupful butter, and one-half cupful Sweet milk. 
NELLIE M. BALL, San Jose. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

* 

1 cupful thick sour cream, 
1 small teaspoonful soda, 
1 cupful sugar, 
Salt and caraway seed. 



248 CAKE 

Flour to make quite stiff dough. 

MRS. M. C. JENNE, Santa Cruz. 

WHITE COCOANUT COOKIES. 

% Ib. butter, 
% Ib. sugar, 

1 cupful coeoanut, 

6 tablespoonfuls water, 
Flour to stiffen. 

A IKS. M. C. HANSEN. 

COOKIES. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
2 eggs, 

2 cupfuls of butter (or half lard), 
12 tablespoonfuls of sour milk, 
2 teaspooni'uls soda, 
% nutmeg, flour to roll. 

MRS. E. L. BAKER. 

SOFT COOKIES. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
1 cupful butter, 

1 cupful sour cream, 

3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful of soda, 
1 tablespoonful vanilla.. Mix very soft 
with .flour. 

MRS. E. B. GABOON, Soquel. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

l / 2 Ib. each chocolate and sugar, 

% Ib. each butter and chopped citron, 

3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful cloves, 

2 tea-spoonfuls cinnamon, 
1 small glass brandy, 



CAKE 249 

2 pts. flour, a little salt, 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar, 
% teaspoonful soda. 

Milk can be used instead of brandy. 

MRS. M. E. HOOLE, Pacific Grove. 

CRISP COOKIES. 

5 eggs, 

2 l / 2 cupful s sugar, 

4 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 

2 cupfuls butter, 

1 tablespoonful vanilla, 
Flour to roll very bard. 

Bake in rapid hot oven. 

MRS. E. B. CAHOON, Sequel. 

ALMOND COOKIES. 

One Ib. butter, same of sugar and chopped 
almonds, six eggs, half cupful cold water, one 
teaspoonful extract of almond. Mix butter, 
sugar, and eggs to a cream; add chopped 
almonds and sifted flour to mould and roll 
out; brush over with little water or milk; after 
they are cut sprinkle with sugar and chopped 
nuts. Can be kept for weeks if placed in tight 
.can or jar, and are delicious. 

MRS. C. M. HANSEN. 

AMMONIA COOKIES. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
1 cupful butter, 

3 eggs, 

4 small teaspoonfuls baking ammonia 

dissolved in three-fourths of a cup- 
ful of sweeb cream. 
Flour to roll out well; roll thin and bake 



250 CAKE 

in rapid oven . MRS. GEO. HUNTER. 

GRAHAM COOKIES. 

1 cupful brown sugar, 

legg," 

l / 2 cupful of beef drippings or suet (meas- 
ured after it is tried out). 
Mix together and add one cupful of sour 
milk or buttermilk, and two cupfuls of gra- 
ham or whole wheat flour, one even teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one cupful of chopped fruit (raisins 
and currants mixed), spices and a little salt. 
Drop in small spoonfuls in dripping pan which 
has not been greased. Remove by slipping a 
thin knife under them while still warm, and 
lay on a cloth to cool. 

Take one cupful of confectioners or xxxx 
sugar, or if you cannot obtain it ordinary pul- 
verized sugar will do; add a spoonful or more 
of milk, stirring and adding milk until of con- 
sistency to spread. Frost top of cookies very 
thinly until you have used about one-half the 
frosting, then to remainder add one teaspoon- 
ful Van Houteir s or Royal Dutch cocoa, a lit- 
tle vanilla, and frost remainder of cookies. 
This is also a nice frosting for any kind of 
cake; quickly made and never cracks in cut- 
ting nor discolors if kept a long time. 

MRS. H. A. MITCHELL, Palo Alto. 

SCOTCH COOKIES. 

% Ib. sugar, 
% Ib. of butter,, 
1 Ib. of flour. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, then 
add flour, only a very little at a time, roll out 



CAKE 251 

one-fourth inch thick, and bake slowly. 

MRS. W. C. WATERS. 

GINGER OR MOLASSES COOKIES. 

2 eggs, well beaten, 
1 cupful sugar, 
1 tablespoonful soda, 
1 taJblespoonful ginger, 
1 tablespoonful vinegar, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

Add last one cupful molasses. 
Flour to make a.s soft a dough as can pos- 
sibly be rolled out. MRS. 0. S. TRIMMER, 

Pacific Grove. 

CURRANT COOKIES. 

4 eggs, 

2 cupful s sugar, 

1 cupful each butter, and currants, 

3 tablespoorifuls cream, 

% grated nutmeg, or may use vanilla. 
Beat all to a cream; add half a teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder and flour enough to roll; 
dust over them a little pulverized sugar. 

MRS. C. M. HANSEN. 

HERMITS, 

2 cupfuls brown sugar, 

1 large cupful butter and lard mixed. 

3 eggs, 

1 cupful seeded raisins, 

l / 2 teaspoonful soda in a little boiling 

wa.ter, 

% teaspoonful cloves, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 



252 CAKE FILLINGS 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg, . 
Salt, flour to roll out. 

MHS. R. L. PORTER. 



Cake Fillings 

LEMON PASTE. 

1 Ib. powdered white sugar, 
% Ib fresh butter, 

6 eggs, leaving out whites of two. 

3 fine lemons. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream; beat 
eggs, leaving out two whites; stir them? into 
butter and sugar; grate the rind and squeeze 
the juice of the lemons; put all into a sauce- 
pan over a kettle of boiling water and stir 
gently till it gets as thick as honey. Will keep 
all winter. MRS. SUSIE J. HARRIS, 

Santa Cruz. 

LEMON JELLY NO. 1. 

Grate the yellow rind of one lemon, add 
the juice, a tablespoonful of cold water, one- 
half cupful of-white sugar, a lump of butter size 
of a walnut, and one beaten egg. Cook over 
the tea-kettle until as thick as cream; set to 
cool while you make your cake. 

LEMON JELLY NO. II. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemoH, one 
cupful of sugar and one egg. Beat' thorough- 
ly; boil over tea-kettle until thick as cream. 

LEMON JELLY NO. III. 

2 w r hole lemons, 



CAKE FILLINGS 253 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

3 well beaten eggs. 

(irate rinds and remove seeds and white 
skin of lemons; mix all ingredients thoroughly 
with piece of butter size of an egg; place over 
boiling water, stirring till it is thick as cream, 
and set away to cool. This will keep all win- 
ter just as well as paste and is less expensive. 
Very fine for tarts. 

MRS. SUSIE J. HARRIS, Santa Cruz. 

LEMON CHEESE. 

1 Ib. cube sugar, % Ib. butter, 

2 well beaten eggs, 

2 lemons, all of juice and grated rind. 
Put all together and let simmer until it 
has the consistency of honey; this is very nice 
for layer cakes, tarts, or eaten as sauce. 

MRS. WILBUR, Pacific Grove. 

ORANGE FILLING. 

H 2 good sized oranges, 

1 heaping tablespoanful of flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls of water, 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
Yolk of one egg. 

Grate yellow rind from oranges and put 
aside until needed. Peel oranges, discard all 
white rind, and cut them in small pieces, cut- 
ting out the center pith and removing seeds. 
Put the orange in a bowl, set in boiling water, 
a ; iid when it is hot stir in the flour mixed to a 
smooth g^.ste with the water. If too stiff to 
stir smoothly, add a very little more water. 
When it thickens (it should be stirred con- 
stantly ) beat yolk of the egg to a cream with 
the sugar; stir in and cook two or three min- 



254 CAKE FILLINGS 

utes. Remove from fire, and if not pleasantly 
tart, add a little lemon juice^ficl frost with a 
yellow frosting made by stirring pulverized 
sugar into the beaten yolk of an egg, or mak- 
ing a boiled frosting with the beaten yolk in- 
stead of the white of the egg. In either case, 
flavor with the remainder of the grated peel. 
MRS. A. W. ANDERSON, Pacific Grove. 

ALMOND FILLING. 

One pt. thick sweet cream, whipped, fla- 
vored, and sweetened to taste; stir into this 
one Ib. blanched almonds, chopped very fine; 
put between layers and on top of cake when 
ready to serve. MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

ALMOND FILLING. 

Whites of 2 eggs, 
1% cupfuls of sugar, 
% Ib. blanched and finely chopped al- 
monds, 

4 tablespoonfuls of hot water. 
Beat eggs stiff. Boil sugar and water five 
minutes, turn on to beaten egg and stir until 
cold, then add almonds. Enough for one large 
cake. MRS. N. E. BECKWITH, Los Gatos. 

ALMOND PASTE. 

Blanch one-half Ib. sweet almonds, pound 
into a paste with a few drops of rose or other 
water to prevent oiliness; work into this one- 
half pound of powdered sugar (sifted) and 
blend whole together with white of an egg. Af- 
ter standing a few minutes it is ready to 
spread on cake, or to be cut into squares and 



CAKE FILLINGS 255 

put aside to harden and use as a sweet. 

Miss F. G. WOODCOCK, Upper Lake. 

NUT FILLING. 

* 

1 cupful of sugar, 
1 tablespoonful of corn starch, 
1 tablespoonful of butter, boiling wa- 
ter to make thick. 

Let it cook a little and add a large cupful 
of chopped walnuts. Beat an egg with a little 
water and stir in; flavor with vanilla,, and 
when cool spread on any layer cake. 

MRS. W. L. WEYMANN. 

NUT FILLING. 

Simmer together until dissolved two eup- 
fuls of sugar and one-half cupful of water; add 
to this the well beaten whites of two eggs, one 
cupful of chopped raisins, one cupful of chop- 
ped nut meats and flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. 0. S. TRIMMER, Pacific Grove. 

FIG FILLING. 

Chop figs fine, put enough hot water with 
them to make a paste; add enough soft frost- 
ing to make a sufficient quantity for the cake; 
flavor with vanilla; put between cakes and the 
remainder of the white frosting on top. 

MRS. H. HOFFMAN. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING. 

One can pineapple chopped fine, and half 
the juice; two cupfuls sugar; boil until it thick- 
ens like jelly. Whip a cupful of cream, sweeten 
and flavor with pineapple, and whip into it the 
cold thickened pineapple. MRS. C. L. PIODA. 



256 CAKE FILLINGS 

APPLE FILLING. 

1 large tart apple grated, 
1 cupful sugar, 
White of one egg. 
Beat all together for twenty minutes. 

MRS. H. E. KENT, Pacific Grove. 

STRAWBERRY FILLING. 

% cupful sugar, 

1 whole egg (unbeaten). 

1 cupful strawberries washed with hulls 
on and allowed to drain before using. Put all 
together and beat with a Dover egg beater. 
Sufficient for two layers and top of cake. This 
filling can also be used as a dessert and will 
serve four people. MRS. WILBUR, 

Pacific Grove. 

PRUNE FILLING. 

No. 1. Pit and chop one and one-half tea- 
cupfuls of stewed prunes. Beat whites of two 
eggs stiff and add three tablespoonfuls of su- 
gar, season with lemon and mix thoroughly 
with prune and spread between layers and on 
top. 

No. 2 Press cooked prunes through afruit 
sieve, flavor with lemon or vanilla:, and sweet- 
en to taste. Use a layer of this mixture and 
on top of it a layer of whipped cream for fill- 
ing in cakes. Very nice without the cream. 

MRS. San Jose. 

COCOANUT FILLING. 

% cupful butter, 

1 cupful sugar, 

3 tablespoonfuls milk. 



CAKE FILLINGS 257 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the milk, 
flavor with vanilla and spread on layers, then 
cover thickly with fresh grated cocoanut. 

MRS. C. HOFFMAN. 

MACAROON FILLING. 

One-half pt. sweet cream. Twenty cents 
worth not too fresh macaroons. Whip cream, 
sweeten to taste and flavor with vanilla. Roll 
macaroons fine and stir into whipped cream. 
Spread between layers of cake and ice top 
and sides. MRS. E. WILLIAMS. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 
3 cupfuls brown sugar, 
1 cupful sweet cream, 
Butter size of an egg, 
Pinch of cream tartar. 
Cook filling until nearly candy; put in a 
dish and beat till cold, then add two large ta- 
blespoonfuls of vanilla. 

MRS. E. B. CAHOON, Soquel. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING. 

Two teaspoonfuls Knox's gelatine dis- 
solved in little warm water; add six table- 
spoonfuls boiling water, twenty-one table- 
spoonfuls bar sugar and beat with a fork 
thirty minutes. Flavor with banana or pine- 
apple and pour into a buttered tin, same size 
as used for your cake, and set in cool place un- 
til it stiffens; then put between layers of cake 
with boiled icing. MRS. JOHN CLEMENTS. 

MARSH MALLOW FILLING. 

Make a boiled icing; cut or chop into small 
pieces twenty-five cents worth of marsh mal- 



258 CAKE FILLINGS 

lows, add to the icing and put between cakes. 

MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

CKEAM FILLING. 

Whip the cream to a stiff froths sprinkle it 
over with sugar and add to each pt. of cream 
about two tablespoonmls of gelatine that has 
been covered with half a cupful of cold water, 
and put over hot water to dissolve. 

MRS. SOUTH, Los Angeles. 

CHOCOLATE FKOST1NG OR FILLING. 

One cupful powdered sugar, two squares 
Bakers unsweetened chocolate, shaved or mel- 
ted, two tablespoonmls boiling water, white of 
one egg. Cook one-third of sugar, the choco- 
late and water together until smooth. Have 
egg and remainder of sugar beaten together 
and pour into them the hot chocolate. Beat 
well and spread over cake at once. 

MRS. A. W. ANDERSON, Pacific Grove. 

CLEAR FROSTING. 

One cupful of sugar and just enough milk 
to moisten; put on stove and boil until it is 
foaming, then remove and beat until smooth 
and clear; while still warm and before it gets 
too stiff spread between layers and on top of 
cake. Miss BREESE. 

GELATINE FROSTING. 

Dissolve one-half tableepoonful gelatine in 
three tablespoonfuls boiling water; strain; 
thicken with powdered sugar and flavor; beat 
till white. This icing will not crumble. 

MRS. D. A. SMITH, San Jose. 



CAKE FILLINGS^ 259 

ICING. 

Allow about five spoonfuls powdered sugar 
to white of one egg; beat egg until you can in- 
vert the plate without egg falling, then beat in 
sugar little at a time; pour over the hot cake. 
The icing should be thin enough to settle into 
place. 

BOILED FROSTING. 

Put one cupful sugar into a sauce-pan, add 
four tablespoonfuls water, stir until dissolved; 
beat white of an egg to stiff froth; after sugar 
come's to a boil, let it boil just four minutes, 
then pour it over the beaten white and beat 
till thick and smooth and nearly cold; spread 
while just warm. B. 

BOILED FROSTING. 

One cupful sugar, five tablespoonfuls milk; 
boil four or five minutes, then stir until cold 
and put on a cool cake. Miss OWENS, S. F. 



PORTER & IRVINE 

JSuDRT GOODS 

FANCY GOODS, CLOTHING, 
HATS, CAPS, BOOTS AND SHOES 
At Lower Prices than any house in 

SALINAS, CAL. 



Agents for the 

celebrated Centemeri Kid Gloves 



PERFECTION OF FIT 



Frozen Dainties 



"Good Footli, she is 
The queen of curds and cream*." 

Creams and custards that are to be frozen 
require at least one-third more sugar than 
those used other ways. Sweetening and fla- 
voring ''freezes out." 

In heating milk for custards let it just 
scald, not boil. Cream the eggs and sugar, 
pour just a little of the hot milk into them, 
t stirring well, adding a little more and more 
milk and mixing thoroughly. This method 
of mixing will prevent the danger of curdling. 
Return to fire to finish ccoking, stirring con- 
stantly. Always use a double boiler or a ves- 
sel set within another of boiling water. Cus- 
tards are better and lighter if eggs are beaten 
separately. 

When ready to use a freezer see that every 
thing about it is properly adjusted before 
packing. Pound ice very fine and place a thick 
layer of it in the bottom of tub then a thin 
layer of rock salt. Three inches of ice and one 
inch of salt is about the right proportion, al- 
ternating, until freezer is covered. Pack each 
layer in closely with a wooden paddle, turning 
occasionally while packing. Turn slowly at 
first, then rapidly towards the last until you 
can turn no longer. Do not draw off the water 
while freezing as the outlet in the top of tub 
v will keep the water from entering the freezer, 



FROZEN DAINTIES 261 

and the salty water aids the process of freez- 
ing*. When you find that you can turn the 
crank no longer, wipe off the cover carefully, 
remove beater, scrape cream from the sides, 
beat the half-frozen cream thoroughly with a 
large spoon or paddle, then pa,ck the cream 
down closely; replace cover and put a cork in 
the opening. If you have plenty of ice pour 
off water and repack with ice and salt; if not, 
break up any ice remaining, put it, without 
pouring off water, into the tub with more salt, 
reserving some to place on top of the can. 
Cover with a piece of old carpet wet in salt 
water and lay something hea vy on top to 
keep can down in the ice, and allow it to stand 
for at least an hour before using. If cream is 
not to be used for a few hours water must be 
drawn off and sufficient ice and salt used to 
thoroughly cover can. 

Wrap ice that you wish to keep a while in 
plenty of paper. 

Ice cream is much more attractive if served 
in moulded form or given the round shape of 
the freezer. When ready to serve remove free- 
zer, wipe off all salty water, wrap a hot cloth 
about it allowing it to remain for a fe\v mo- 
ments, turn cream on to a platter and send 
to table. Cut in slices with a knife. 

ICE CREAM. 

3 pts. of cream, 
1 qt. of milk. 
8 eggs, 

3 cupfuls of sugar (%-pt. cups), 
5 teaspoonfuls of vanilla (varies ac- 
cording to strength). 



262 FROZEN DAINTIES 

The cream and milk may be varied; if 
cream is very thick and rich, one pt. to two 
qts. of milk will make good ice cream. Scald, 
but not boil, the milk in double boiler or in 
can set inside of kettle of water. Beat yolks 
of eggs well, add sugar and beat again; whip 
whites stiff and beat into yolks and sugar. 
Pour hot milk into this, a little at a time, re- 
turn to can and cook until like boiled custard; 
strain through a sieve, and when cold add 
cream and flavoring and turn into freezer. 

MRS. A. W. ANDERRON, Pacific Grove. 

ICE CREAM. 

1 qt. of cream (not too thick), 
1 coffee cupful of sugar, 
1 wine glassful sherry wine, 
A little vanilla. 
Mix and freeze. MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 

1 qt. of pure cream, not too thick, 

1 scant cupful of sugar, 

Flavor to taste. 

There are three ways of making this cream. 
First Mix sugar and flavoring with cream 
and when sugar is dissolved strain it into 
freezer. This is the quickest and ea siest meth- 
od; the cream increases in bulk and is of a 
light snowy texture. 

Second Whip cream until you have taken 
off a qt. of the froth; mix sugar and flavoring 
with unwhipped cream, strain into freezer, and 
when partly frozen add whipped cream and 
freeze until stiff. This gives a very light, deli- 
icate texture to the cream. 



FROZEN DAINTIES 263 

Third Heat cream in double boiler until 
scalding hot, melt sugar in it and when cold 
add flavoring. This is considered by many 
the best method, as the cream has a rich body 
and flavor, and a smooth velvety appearance. 

A.M. 

ICE CREAM. 

1 qt. of cream, 
% pt. of milk, 

3% small cupfuls of sugar, 
6 unbeaten eggs. 

MRS. J. F. BIRLEM. 

ICECREAM. (1 gallon). 

3 eggs well beaten, 
1% cupfuls of sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
2 l / 2 qts. of milk, 

1 pt. or 1 qt. of cream. 
When about to boil pour in eggs and 
cream and cook until the flour does not taste. 
Use more or less cream as richness is desired. 
If more cream use less milk. Flavor to taste. 

MRS. JOHN CLEMENTS. 

BAKED ICE CREAM OR ALASKA ICE 

CREAM. 

Take a silver platter or any dish which 
will not break in the oven, cover the bottom 
with lady fingers or any other cake, put your 
ice cream (any kind) on top of cake, only see 
that the ice cream is well frozen. Have by 
this time whipped the whites of six eggs to a 
very thick froth, have on a plate one pound of 
powdered sugar and mix the sugar carefully 
with the froth. Now cover above ice cream 



264 FROZEN DAINTIES 

with half of this, take the other in a pastry 
bag, garnish over all, and bake in a very hot 
oven ten or fifteen seconds till nice brown and 
send to table immediately. (If made right 
this is something very nice for a surprise.) 

MR. HENRY BECKER, 
Chef of University Club, San Francisco. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM. 

Prepare one qt. of ice cream. Blanch and 
pound to a paste four ounces of pistachio nuts, 
rub into paste three drops of orange water 
and when the cream is cold add the paste, a 
tea-spoonful of almond extract and five or six 
drops of spinach green, according to the shade 
desired. Add a pinch of salt and freeze. 

MRS. C. L. PIODA. 

ALMOND ICE CREAM. 

One qt. of cream, four ounces of shelled al- 
monds, one teaspoonful of vanilla extract, a 
few drops each of rose water and bitter al- 
mond extract. Blanch almonds, pound to a 
paste, adding the rose water and a very little 
cream gradually. Heat the cream in a double 
boiler till steaming hot (not boiling), melt su- 
gar in it, set aside and when cold add almond 
paste. Freeze and pack. Nut ice cream re- 
quires a longer time to freeze. 

MRS. C. L. PIODA. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM. 

1 can apricots, 

1 pt. sugar, 

1 qt. water, 

1 pt. whipped cream. 



FROZEN DAINTIES 265 

Cut apricots in small pieces, add sugar 
and water and freeze. When half frozen add 
whipped cream. MRS. MILO HILLS. 

BISQUE. ( For six or eight. ) 

One pt. of rich cream beaten thoroughly; 
add one cupful of sugar, one-half pound wal- 
nuts chopped very fine and a little vanilla. 
Freeze without turning freezer. Should be 
packed from five to eight hours. 

MRS. F. D. MCPHERSON, Santa Cruz. 

WHITE VELVET SHERBET. 

6 lemons, 
3 cupfuls sugar, 
3 pts. milk. 

Mix lemon juice and sugar and add milk 
gradually. Freeze. MRS. MILO HILLS. 

SHERBET. 

Rub the rind of three lemons into eight 
ounces of sugar, one pt. of cold water, the 
juice of three lemons and of two sweet oranges. 
Two or three times this quantity may be used. 
Freeze the same as ice cream. 

Miss PERRY, Monterey. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

1 qt. water, 

3 lemons, 

2 oranges, 

4 small cupfuls of sugar. 
Whites of two eggs. 

MRS. J. F. BIRLEM, San Francisco. 



266 FROZEN DAINTIES 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

1 qt. of strawberries, 
3 pts. of water, 
% Ib. of sugar, 
Juice of one lemon. 

Mash berries to a smooth paste, add wat- 
er and lemon juice; let stand three hours, then 
strain juice over sugar, add unbeaten whites 
of four eggs, stir well and freeze. 

MRS. KATE KRUGER, Sacramento. 

PEACH SHERBET. 

For one-half gallon of sherbet take ten 
medium sized white peaches and mash through 
a colander. Add juice of two lemons, two cup- 
fuls sugar, the beaten whites of two eggs, and 
enough water to fill freezer. Freeze and let 
stand a half hour before serving. 

ALICE BALL, San Jose. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One-half pt. can of pineapple or one large 
fresh pineapple, one small pt. sugar, one pt. 
water, one tablespoonful gelatine. Soak gela- 
tine about two hours in sufficient water to 
cover it; cut the hearts and eyes from the 
pineapple, chip it fine; add to it the sugar and 
juice from the can; heat one-half the water and 
dissolve gelatine in it; stir this with cold water 
into the pineapple and freeze. It should be 
white and creamy. Miss PERRY, Monterey. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One qt. water and one qt. sugar boiled 
twenty minutes. Add one pt. water and freeze 
partially. Then add whites of three eggs, 



FROZEN DAINTIES 267 

juice of one pineapple and meat of one (con- 
tents of one can) chopped fine. Stir thorough- 
ly and freeze until hard. 

MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

5 qts. of water, 

4 Ibs. granulated sugar, 

4 beaten eggs, 

Juice and grated rind of four oranges, 

Juice of two lemons. 

Beat sugar and eggs together, then add 
water and grated rinds. Freeze like icecream. 
The strained juice of oranges and lemons 
should not be added until the mixture begins 
to freeze. MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET. 

2 baskets raspberries, 

2 cupfuls water, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 

2 lemons (juice), 

2 level teaspoonfuls Knox's gelatine, 

2 eggs (whites). 

Make a syrup of the sugar and one cup 
water, and stir into this while yet hot, the gel- 
atine that has been soaked in a little cold wa- 
ter. Set away to cool. Mash berries, pour 
over them the other cupful of water and press 
through a cheese cloth. Now add lemon juice 
and mix with the cool syrup. Lastly put in 
the well beaten whites of eggs, and the mix- 
ture is ready to be frozen. 

MRS. IRVIN A. BALL, San Jose. 



268 FROZEN DAINTIES 

CHANGE ICE. 

One and a half pts. sugar, three of water, 
the juice of eighteen oranges and two lemons. 
Boil sugar and water for half an hour. Strain 
the juice, add to sugar and water after it be- 
comes lukewarm When cold freeze. 

MRS. C. L. PIODA. 

ORANGE WATER ICE. 

Make a strong lemonade very sweet and 
add the juice of nine oranges. Freeze. 

MRS. D. J. S PENCE. 

RASPBERRY WATER ICE. 

Press sufficient raspberries through a hair 
sieve to give three pts. juice; add one Ib. pulve- 
rized white sugar and juice of one lemon. 
Freeze. MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

LEMON WATER IEC. 

'1% pts. of water, 
1 Ib. of powdered sugar, 
Juice of twelve lemons. 
Mix all together and freeze like ice cream. 

MRS. I). J. SPE>TE. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

One qt. milk and one-half pt. sugar; put in 
freezer and when chilled (which will be when 
you get ice up to top of can), add juice of two 
lemons and freeze. When it begins to thicken 
add three tablespoonrals of Jamaica rum and 
whites of two eggs; beat up thoroughly and 
put away to harden. MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 



FROZEN DAINTIES 269 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Make two quarts of lemonade, rich with 
pure juice lemon fruit; add one tablespoonful 
extract of lemon. Work well and freeze; just 
before serving, add. for each quart of ice one- 
half pint of brandy and one-half pint Jamaica 
rum. Mix well and serve in high glasses, as 
this makes what is called a semi or half ice. It 
is usually served at dinners as a coup 1 de milieu. 

MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

BANANAS FROZEN. 

Peel one doz. bananas, slice crosswise very 
thin, and mash them smooth. Bring one pt. 
sugar and one pt. water to a. boil and when 
cold add bananas with the juice of one orange 
and one lemon. Put into freezer and turn 
slowly until mushy. Remove the beater and 
stir in lightly one pt. cream whipped. Pack 
and set aside for two hours. 

MRS. C. L. PIODA. 

CANTALOUPE FROZEN. 

Choose one which is ripe and luscious. Cut 
pulp into tiny cubes and sprinkle with little 
sugar and little pinch of salt. Let stand in 
freezer one hour and serve heaped in a pretty 
dish' MRS. C. L. PIODA. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

1 pt. cream, 

l*/ 2 doz. macaroons, 

3 tablespoonf als powdered sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls ground chocolate. 
Whip cream, add sugar and divide into 

three parts; to one portion add the chocolate 
which has been moistened with a little water, 



270 FROZEN DAINTIES 

and stir until smooth; add enough pink color- 
ing to second portion to give a delicate pink; 
flavor third portion with one teaspoonful van- 
illa. Roll macaroons, not too fine, and divide 
into three parts. Take a small la.rd can and 
put in first the pink cream and over this lay 
one portion of macaroons, next the white 
cream over which spread second layer of maca- 
roons, then add the chocolate cream; cover 
the can and pack well with ice and salt as for 
ice cream; let stand four hours; when ready 
to serve turn out and cover the top with third 
portion of macaroons. MBS. MILO HILLS. 



Byron fllauzy 

* SOLE AGENT 



SOHMEIR 

BYRON MAUZV 

GABLEIR 

LEISTER 

HAMILTON 

SPIEILMANN 



PIANOS 



308, 310, 312 POSt St. San Francisco 

FRANK HOOPER, Ag't, Salinas 



L H, GARRIGUS 
Grain, Real Estate, Insurance 

5ALINA8, MONTEREY CO,, (AL, 



Fruits, Preserves, Jellies, 
Pickles, Etc. 



"Will 't please your honor, taste of these 
conserves ?" SHAKESPEARE. 

APRICOT JAM. 

Take the best ripe fruit and pour boiling 
water over it to remove skins. Cut in small 
pieces; crack the pits; blanch kernels and chop 
very fine. Boil fruit one-half hour after add- 
ing three-quarters Ib. of sugar to each Ib. of 
fruit. When cooked add chopped kernels. Use 
no water. MRS. J. W. STIRLING. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

To six Ibs. of fruit allow four Ibs. of sugar. 
Peel the pears, put them whole into a granite 
or porcelain kettle and nearly cover w^ifh wat- 
er. Boil for half an hour, then put in sugar 
and boil together very slowly until it has be- 
come quite thick. Put in jars. 

MRS. WM. SUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

COMPOTE OF PINEAPPLE. 

First of all peel the fruit (one Ib. weight of 
it), and boil this rind in a pt. of water for ten 
minutes. Strain it, add to it a Ib. of lump 
sugar, and boil for twenty minutes, removing 
scum as it rises. Then put in the fruit in slices, 
and boil about fifteen minutes. Next day pour 



272 FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 

off the syrup and boil again for twenty min- 
utes. Put the slices of pineapple into the jars, 
about six or eight slices to each, and pour the 
boiling syrup on them. Tie down securely. 

B. E., Alameda. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Take ripe, but not soft, peaches. Pour 
boiling water over them to take off the skins, 
which will pull off easily. Weigh equal quanti- 
ties of fruit and sugar; put them together in 
earthen pan over night. In morning pour off 
syrup, boil few minutes; set off kettle, take off 
scum. Put back kettle on tire; when syrup 
boils up, put in peaches. Boil them slowly 
three-quarters of an hour; take out and put 
in jars. Boil syrup fifteen minutes more and 
pour over them. MRS. A. A. WETHERILI,. 

PRESERVED FIGS. 

Take about a milk pan full of green figs 
before the frost has touched them, cut a gash 
both ways across the large end of them; put 
on the stove with boiling water and four ta- 
blespoonfuls of salt and let them boil about 
one-half hour. Take off and put into plenty 
of cold water to remove all traces of salt. 
Take out of water and put into a thin syrup, 
made of sugar and w r ater, to cook. As the 
syrup boils away replenish by adding boiling 
water and about a sauce-plate of sugar. Re- 
peat this when necessary and cook very slowly 
for one day. MRS. Salinas. 

PUMPKIN PRESERVE. 

(Conserva de Calabaza) 

Take a pumpkin, peal it and cut in thin 



FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC, 273 

squares, cover with lime water and let it soak 
over night (one pt. of lime in the water is suffi- 
cient); pour out all the lime water and pour in 
boiling water three times to remove all traces 
of lime. Then soak in cold w r ater for half an 
hour. Take off and pour in fresh cold water, 
with as much sugar as there is pumpkin, and 
let it boil slowly all day. Add two-thirds of a 
cupful of orange rinds, and a tablespoonful of 
whole cloves and let them boil with it. This 
gives it a good taste. As the syrup boils 
away, replenish by adding boiling water. Stir 
occasionally to keep it from sticking to pan. 

MRS. S. F. GEIL. 

WATERMELON PRESERVES. 

Pare and cut watermelon rind in pieces; 
weigh, and to each Ib. allow three-fourths Ib. 
sugar. Put melon into preserving kettle with 
a little water and cook one-half hour, then add 
sugar and cook slowly until melon is clear and 
syrup is thick. Just before done add sliced 
and seeded lemons and a few whole cloves for 
flavoring. MRS. WM. SUTTON, Pacific Grove. 

MRS. PHILIP'S ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Take one dozen good oranges, cover with 
water and boil until quite tender; you can as- 
certain this by piercing with a broom straw. 
Take them out of the water, and when cold 
enough take off the rind and cut into narrow 
strips. Take all the pulp from the inside and 
add that to the rind. Put all back into the 
water in which they were boiled and weigh. 
Add Ib. for Ib. of sugar and boil until thick. 

MRS. H. W. SEALE. 



274 FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Slice twelve oranges fine and take out 
seeds. To each Ib. add three pts. of cold wat- 
er. Let stand six hours, then boil till soft. 
When cold add one and one-half Ibs. of sugar 
to each pt. Boil one and three-quarter hours, 

then add juice of two lemons. MBS. 

Salinas. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Peel a dozen large juicy oranges, or two 
dozen small ones. Separate as much as possi- 
ble the white lining from the yellow rind. Cut 
rind into fine shreds to fill three tea-cups. 
Boil rinds until tender changing water when 
first boils renewing with hot water. Cover 
pulp with cold water boiling until soft; add 
juice of two lemons, and sugar (allowing a 
scant cupful of sugar to each cupful of fruit ); 
addrinds boiled tender. Boil twenty minutes 
or until jellied. Put in glasses. 

MRS. WILL JACKS, Pacific Grove. 

FIG MARMALADE. 

3 Ibs. figs, peeled and chopped, 

3 Ibs. sugar, 

3 oranges. 

Grate rind to white part, this pare off and 
discard, then chop center and mix with figs. 
Slice three lemons and boil till tender in water. 
Put all together and boil till done (or thick). 
Do not add lemons till nearly done as sugar 
hardens it. MBS. N. E. BECKWITH, Los Gates. 

CALIFORNIA MARMALADE. 

12 peaches, 



FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES. ETC, 275 

12 pears, 

1 pineapple, 
6 oranges, 

6 lemons, 

2 qts. crabapples peeled and quartered 

(measure after quartering). 
Peel peaches, pears and oranges and divide 
into eighths. Cut pineapple in small pieces 
and slice lemons very thin. Weigh all fruit, 
add three-fourths as much sugar and simmer 
gently two hours after it boils up, stir as little 
as possible. Seal when cool. 

MRS. J. W. STIRLING. 

CANDIED PEACHES. 

(From "Land of Sunshine.") 

Take twenty-five large peaches and let 
them lie in w^ater for a little while, then remove 
the down by rubbing with a cloth. Stone 
them and put them in a kettle with two Ibs. of 
granulated sugar a, layer of peaches and a 
layer of sugar add one-half pt. of water and 
place on a moderate fire. When the syrup is 
thick, take off the fire, and put peaches and 
syrup together in a dish. Flatten the peaches 
with a/ wooden spoon and turn from time to 
time, putting them in a place where the sun 
will shine on them. When they are nearly dry 
roll in colored sugar. Will keep a long time. 
LINDA BELL COLSON, San Diego. 

STEAMED APPLES. 

Pare and core the apples; one cupful of 
sugar and one and one-half cupfuls of water to 
every six apples; boil until soft in covered pan; 
remove the apples; boil down the juice and 



276 FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 

flavor with lemon. MRS. F. MAY, Soquel. 
THE BEST WAY OF COOKING ALL KINDS 
OF DRIED FRUIT. 

Wash quickly in cold water to remove all 
particles of dust: cover with cold or lukewarm 
water and soak twenty -four hours Put to 
simmer in covered porcelain or granite vessel 
for two parts of a day, keeping the fruit al- 
ways just covered with warm water. Sugar- 
to taste and simmer about two hours longer. 

MRS. W. J. HILL. 

LEMON BUTTER, 

Beat three eggs with one and a half cupful s 
sugar, add juice of three lemons, a lump of 
butter, one cupful hot water, and a teaspoon- 
ful corn starch. Boil and stir constantly until 
thick. MRS. H. M. JOHNSON. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Wash berries and put in a granite or por- 
celain vessel to cook, allowing a pt. and a half 
of boiling water to each qt. of berries, and boil 
rapidly for twenty minutes, mashing berries 
with a wooden spoon or masher. Turn into a 
dish to cool, and after cooling a little, pass 
through a coarse sieve and return to sauce- 
pan. Let it just come to a. boil, then add two 
teacupfuls sugar to each qt. of berries used. 
Stir sugar in well and boil gently three or four 
minutes, then pour into moulds or a glass 
dish. MRS. H. S. BALL. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 
To one qt. of cranberries put one cupful 



FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 277 
f 

of cold water and stew ten minutes; add two 
cupfuls of white sugar and oook ten minutes 
longer. Pour into a mould and it will jelly. 

P . 

APPLE JELLY. 

Wash and cut into small pieces any tart, 
juicy apples red makes the handsomest jelly 
but do not peel or core them. Put them into 
a granite or porcelain kettle with sufficient 
water to about cover them, and cook slowly 
until very soft. Pour into a cheese cloth bag 
and hang up to drain over night. Do not 
squeeze pulp if you wish jelly to be clear. To 
three cupfuls of juice allow two and 'one-half 
cupfuls of sugar and juice of half a lemon. Put 
the lemon with the fruit juice and boil rapidly 
for twenty minutes before adding sugar, which 
must be heated very warm in the oven. Care 
must be taken that it does not heat too rapid- 
ly or it will melt. Boil about five or ten min- 
utes after putting in sugar, skimming often. 
Have ready a pan in which a cloth is spread, 
and on this place the glasses with a teaspoon 
in each glass. Put cold water in the pan so 
that it will come to about an inch upon the 
glasses. Pour the hot juice into the glasses 
and when partially cool remove the spoons. 
When cold cover with tissue paper wet 'in 
brandy or alcohol. Miss PERRY, Monterey. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Use currants without picking from the 
stems. Put into the kettle and just cover with 
water and cook in the same manner as for ap- 
ple jelly. Miss PERRY. Monterey. 



278 FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 

CURRANT JELLY WITHOUT COOKING. 

Press juice from currants through a 
colander; strain juice, not too thin. For ev- 
ery cupful of juice use a cupful of white sugar. 
Mix thoroughly, stirring juice and sugar with 
large spoon in a preserving kettle as this in- 
sures success. Skim off any white foam that 
comes on top. Seal into pt. fruit jars and let 
stand in sun two or three days. Wrap jars in 
brown paper, keep in cool, dry place, as heat, 
light and moisture spoils all currant jelly. 
Warranted to keep six months, possibly 
longer. MRS. WILL JACKS, Pacific Grove. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Remove core and skins entirely. Add one 
pt. of water to one gallon of fruit and boil un- 
til soft, then strain. Weigh juice, boil twenty 
minutes, add onelb. sugar to one Ib. of juice 
as it is weighed before boiling. Boil fifteen 
minutes. MRS. J. R. DIXON, Stockton. 

APRICOT JELLY. 

Have rich, ripe apricots, rub all dust off 
with a dry cloth, then separate pits and put 
fruit into a porcelain kettle and cook very 
slowly on back of stove (all day and night if 
necessary), till the whole is quite juicy. Do 
not use water at all. Strain through a cheese 
loth bag or wire sieve, and press with a spoon 
very gently till all juice is extracted. To each 
cupful of juice add a cupful of sugar. Put juice 
in a kettle and when it comes to a boil add the 
thoroughly heated sugar and boil twenty 
minutes. The pulp will make butter. 

MRS. C, HUDSON. 



FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 279 

GOOSBERRY SOY. 

5 Ibs. goosberries, 

3 Ibs. brown sugar, 
1 pt. vinegar, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 

1 small tablespoonful cloves. 
Boil slowly for four hours. 

MRS. N. E. BECKWITH, Los Gatos. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

5 Ibs. currants, 

4 Ibs. brown sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls of ground cloves, 
2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, 

1 pt. vinegar. 

Boil two hours or more until quite thick. 
MRS. C. K. TUTTLE, Pacific Grove. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 

Pit cherries; place in preserving kettle with 
two Ibs. of sugar to one qt. of vinegar, w r ith 
spices to taste. Scald all together and put up 
hot in bottles and seal. 

MRS. A. J. GOTTSCHALL. 

PICKLED CHERRIES WITHOUT COOKING. 

Prepare cherries by stemming, but not pit- 
ting; put into bottles, then take two Ibs. of 
sugar to one qt. of vinegar, with spices to 
taste. Scald, but do not boil vinegar. When 
cold pour over cherries and seal bottles. 

MRS. A. J. GOTTSOFALL. 

PICKLED GRAPES. 
1 qt. vinegar, 



280 FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 

1 qt. sugar, 

1 qt. water, 

% cupful whole cloves, 

% cupful each cinnamon and allspice. 
Boil to syrup. When cold pour over nice 
plump grapes which have been carefully looked 
over, cnt in small bunches and placed in jars. 
Tie up or seal and put away for one month be- 
fore using. MRS. JOB WOOD. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Take clingstone peaches, rub wirh a coarse 
cloth to remove all fuzz. Take two Ibs. sugar 
one qt. vinegar, with spices to taste; heat and 
pour over peaches and allow them to stand 
over night. In the morning scald thoroughly 
and seal while hot. MRS. A. J. GOTTSCHALL. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES. 

Take good ripe, solid freestone peaches 
and peel them. To ten Ibs. of peaches put sev- 
en Ibs. of brown sugar and three pts. of mild 
cider vinegar. Dissolve sugar in vinegar. 
Pierce each peach with piece of stick cinnamon 
and a clove. Put peaches in a jar and pour 
syrup over them, having previously added to 
it two tablespoonfuls of loose spices. Place 
jar in a boiler which has a false bottom, pour 
in cold water to about the middle of jar and 
heat slowly. Put a plate over jar, bottom 
side up. Try with a broom straw and when 
tender they are done. Fellenburg prunes are 
delicious pickled the same way. 

MRS. E. B. CAHOON, Sequel. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES. 

Rub fur off peaches with coarse cloth, or 



FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 281 

pare if desired; stick three cloves in each peach. 
For seven Ibs. of fruit put three Ibs. sugar 
and one pt. of vinegar. Boil and pour over 
fruit four successive days, then cook together; 
when tender dip peaches out with perforated 
skimmer; boil syrup until thick; pour over 
fruit while hot. Add spices of all kinds and al- 
low them to boil each time with- syrup. 

MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

PICKLED PEAKS. 

10 Ibs. of winter Nelis pears, 
3 Ibs. of brown sugar, 
2 qts. of cider vinegar, 
1 pt. of water, 

1 tablespoonral whole allspice,, 
l / 2 tablespoouml whole cloves, 
1 tablespoonful of stick cinnamon, 
1 tablespoonful of pepper-corns. 
Peel pears and steam them until you can 
pierce them easily with a fork. Place them in 
a jar and pour over them the boiling hot 
spiced vinegar. In two days pour off vinegar, 
and heat it boiling hot and return to pears. 
In two days more repeat. Keep in a cool, 
dark place. MRS. GEO. ABBOTT. 

SWEET PICKLED STRAWBERRIES. 

Remove the calyx from six qts. of" ripe 
strawberries. Put into a stone jar first a 
layer of fruit, then a sprinkle of cinnamon and 
cloves, alternating thus until all are used; 
bring to a boil two coffee cuprals of vinegar 
with two and a half pounds of sugar; gkim and 
pour over fruit. Let them stand over night 
and in the morning drain off syrup. Boil up 



282 FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 

and pour on the berries as before. The next 
morning boil all together gently for twenty 
minutes, then pour into jars and cover. 

MRS. W.H. SEALE. 

PICKLED FIGS (Dark). 

10 Ibs. figs, 
5 Ibs. sugar, 

1 qt. vinegar, 

2 ounces each of cloves, cinnamon and 

allspice. 

Put spices in a thin muslin bag, dis- 
solve sugar in vinegar, and cook the figs slow- 
ly, a few at a time till all are done. Then put 
them all back in the syrup and cook until the 
syrup is sufficiently thick. Put in jars and 
seal. MRS. THOS. FLINT, San Juan. 

PICKLED FIGS (White). 

7 Ib. of fresh figs, 

3 Ibs. of sugar, 

1 pt. of vinegar, 

2 lemons sliced, 

A handful of whole cloves, 
A few sticks of cinnamon. 
Boil only a few moments before removing 
the figs. Continue boiling the syrup until 
about sufficient to cover, and pour it over the 
figs! It may be necessary to drain it off and 
boil it more the next day. Seal in jars. 

MRS. H. A. MITCHELL, Palo Alto. 

PICKLED DAMSON PLUMS. 



5 Ibs. of fruit, 
5 Ibs. of sugar, 
2% pts. of vinegar, 



FRUITS, PRESERVES. JELLIES, PICKLES. ETC. 283 

2 oz. of mace, 

1 ozs. of cinnamon, 

1 oz. of cloves. 

Add spices to vinegar, let it come to a boil 
and pour over the fruit and sugar. Cover 
close. Turn off and scald syrup for five suc- 
cessive days. The sixth day let fruit, spices 
and all come to a boil. These will keep for 
years. MRS. E. L. BAKER. 

PICKLED WALNUTS. 

Pick green; when they can be easily pierced 
with a needle put into brine strong enough to 
bear an egg. Let them remain nine days, stir- 
ring and changing brine often. Drain and ex- 
pose to the sun until quite black. Scald in 
boiling water. To a hundred walnuts allow 
one gallon vinegar, one oz. cloves, one oz. all- 
spice, one-half oz. nutmeg, one oz. black pep- 
per. Boil vinegar and spices together fifteen 
minutes. Strain and pour over them boiling 
hot. Tie in thin muslin a tea cupful mustard 
seed and tablespoonful of grated horse-radish. 
Put in bottles and seal tight. Better if kept 
six months before opening. MRS. WALKER. 

PICKLED WATERMELON. 

Cut the hard, green rind of the melon into 
thin squares or fancy shapes, after removing 
the peeling. Then make a syrup of equal parts 
of brown sugar, vinegar and water with as 
many kinds of whole spices as are desired 
cloves, cinnamon and allspice are sufficient. 
Place the pieces in this juice and cook slowly 
until the pieces become clear and glue colored. 
Place in an earthen jar or glass can. 

MRS. C. F. BARKER. 



284 FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Pour boiling hot salt water over small 
onions and let stand until cool, three times 
once before and twice after peeling-. Then 
cover with spiced vinegar poured on while hot. 
Use pieces of horse-radish root, celery and 
nasturtium seed, a few red peppers, and any 
other prepared spices in the vinegar These 
pickles are crisp and brittle, and much better 
than the bottled onions sold in groceries. 

MBS. H. A. MITCHELL, Palo Alto. 

GREEN TOMATO SOY. 

4 qts. of tomatoes, 

4 large onions, 

12 green peppers, 

1 teacupful of salt, 

A handful each of cloves, cinnamon 

and allspice, 

Vinegar sufficient to cover tomatoes. 
Slice tomatoes and onions, place them in 
layers in a jar, sprinkling the salt over each 
layer, and let them remain -over night. Tie 
spices in a thin bag. In the morning drain the 
water from the tomatoes, put them in the hot 
spiced vinegar and cook till tender. 

MRS. R. L. PORTER. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

4 green peppers, sliced thin, 
150 small cucumbers, 
1 head of cauliflower, 
1 head of white cabbage, 
2qts. of small white onions, 
1 qt. of tender string beans, 
A root of grated horse-radish. 



FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 285 

Slice cabbage and break cauliflower apart. 
Make a strong brine that will bear up an egg. 
Scald separately in boiling water, cabbage, cu- 
cumbers, onions, and cauliflower. Put all in 
the brine for twenty-four hours, except the 
peppers and horse-radish. To sufficient vine- 
gar to cover all, add one-half oz. of turmeric, 
one oz. black mustard seed, and one teaspoon- 
ful bla,ck pepper. MRS. W. J. HILL. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

6 small green peppers, 

2 qts. of little onions, 

2 qts. of beans, 

2 qts. of small cucumbers, 

2 qts. of cauliflower. 

For brine use one ta-blespooriful of salt to 
one quart of water. Let them stand, twenty- 
four hours, drain, and they are ready for dres- 
sing. To each quart of vinegar add three ta- 
blespoonfuls mustard, one cupful brown sugar, 
one-half cupful flour, one-half oz. curry powder, 
same of celery seed; boil all together for five 
minutes, then pour over pickles. The dressing 
should be like thick cream. 

MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

One box of green tomatoes. Slice toma- 
toes in three or four slices, according to size, 
throwing away a thin slice from each end, and 
put in a jar in layers, sprinkling salt between 
each layer. Put a weight on and let them re- 
main over night. In the morning drain 
through a colander. Make the first syrup of 
three qts. water, two cupfuls vinegar and one 



286 FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 

cupful brown sugar. Allow syrup to boil, and 
then put the tomatoes in (a few at a time) and 
let them simmer a few minutes. Strain 
through a colander. Make a second syrup of 
two qts. water, one qt. vinegar, two coffee cup- 
fuls sugar and one tablespoonful each of cloves 
and cinnamon. Put spices in a thin muslin 
bag. Heat syrup, and when boiling hot put 
tomatoes in (a few at a time) and boil fifteen 
minutes. Put in a stone jar; keep in a cool 
place, and in a few days they will be ready for 
use. Use none but best cider vinegar. 

MRS. E. B. CAHOON, Soquel. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

One peck of hard green tomatoes, a few 
small onions, if desired. Slice tomatoes in 
about one-half inch slices, salt well in layers, 
and let stand over night. In the morning 
drain off salt juice, place tomatoes in a por- 
celain kettle and cover with vinegar. Ad done 
cupful sugar and one teaspoonf ul of all kinds of 
spices tied in small bags. Cook slowly for one 
hour or until tomatoes are well cooked 
through, but not soft.. MRS. C. F. BARKER. 

SMALL CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Make a brine of a heaping tablespoonful 
salt to a qt. of water, heat boiling hot and 
pour over cucumbers and let stand twenty- 
four hours; then take out and wash or rinse, 
and pour over them a solution of vinegar and 
water, half-and-half, boiling hot, with a lump 
of alum size of small walnut dissolved in it; let 
them stand until scum rises, which will be in 
two or three days, then rinse and wipe them 



FRUITS, PRESERVES, JELLIES, PICKLES, ETC. 287 

from that solution. Wipe out jars, then for 
last vinegar use one gallon of good cider vine- 
gar, one qt. brown sugar, one-half pt. white 
mustard seed, one oz. celery seed, and one oz. 
each of cinnamon, allspice and cloves. Use 
unground, put all in vinegar loose and boil a 
few minutes hard, then pour hot over pickles 
in the jar. Rave layers of horseradish between 
cucumbers, using plenty, as it helps to keep 
the pickles. MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

CUCUMBERS IN OIL. 

Wash and slice in thick slices without par- 
ing, fifty large cucumbers. Cover with weak 
brine and let them stand twenty -four hours; 
drain, and mix with the cucumbers two table- 
spoonfuls whole mustard, one tablespoonful 
i-olery seed, and one cupful salad oil. Add 
enough cold vinegar to cover. 

MRS. H. A. MITCHELL, Palo Alto. 

OIL PICKLES. 

Select small cucumbers, wash and dry 
them so that the black spots rub off. Then 
sprinkle with plenty of salt and set the dish so 
that the water will drain. Let stand all night. 
Take small onions, one-fourth as many as cu- 
cumbers, and put these in another dish and 
then drain all night, after being sprinkled with 
plenty of salt. In the morning mix all togeth- 
er with mustard seed, celery seed and the best 
vinegar and olive oil. Use about three table- 
spoonfuls of oil to a two qt. jar. 

MRS. F. N. NOBLE. Pacific Grove. 



Beverages 



"We will drink the table round." 

SHAKESPEARE. 

COFFEE. 

To make an excellent cup of coffee get 
good grain coffee, well browned, and have 
your grocer grind it for you. Use one large 
tablespoonful of ground coffee to every per- 
son; settle with egg. Pour on boiling water, 
boil thoroughly for one minute, then set aside 
a few minutes to settle. 

MRS. A. J. GOTTSCHALL. 

TWO METOHDS OF MAKING COFFEE. 
Drip Coffee. 

Drip coffee is made by . using either a 
French coffee-pot or a coffee-pot with a sack 
attached to a ring which fits into the mouth 
of the pot. Mocha and Java, half of each, is a 
favorite mixture. Some prefer an equal mix- 
ture of Mocha, Java and Costa Kica. Have 
coffee ground very fine, and use a heaping ta- 
blespoonful to each cup of water and add an 
extra spoonful for the pot for every four or 
five cups wanted. Put coffee into the perfor- 
ated cylinder vessel, or the sack, and pour the 
required amount of actively boiling water 
over it. If you wish to abstract a little more 
of the coffee strength pour the coffee into an- 
other vessel and turn again over the grounds. 



BEVERAGES 289 

Coffee Made With Cold Water. 

Have coffee ground moderately fine and 
use same amount as in above recipe, one ta- 
blespoonful to a cup of water. Put coffee in 
the pot, stir into it a li fctle egg to settle it and 
over it pour required amount of cold water. 
Place where it will heat very gradually until it 
reaches the boiling point, but remove before it 
actually boils. Place on cooler part of the 
stove where it will keep warm, but not boil, 
and allow it to remain for ten minutes longer. 
In serving coffee place cream and sugar in the 
cup and pour coffee over. 

MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

BLACK COFFEE. 

Make coffee after any good recipe and use 
either kirsch wasser or brandy for burning. 
After coffee is poured into cups, sweeten, put 
in a teaspoonful of the kirsch wasser or bran- 
dy, light it, allow it to burn itself out; or, put 
a napkin over the cup on which place the sugar 
and a teaspoonful of liquor, light it with a 
taper or match, stir sugar slighly and when 
burned out remove napkin and stir coffee be- 
fore drinking. A favorite way of preparing 
sugar for black coffee, is to put the sugar into 
a deep dish, pour over it liquor, light it, and 
while burning stir sugar lightly by lifting and 
pouring from a spoon. When burned out, put 
a teaspoonful or more, as desired, into each 
cup of coffee. MRS. H. S. BALL. 

BURNING SUGAR FOR COFFEE. 
An attractive way to burn sugar for black 



290 BEVERAGES 

coffee is to take a grape fruit, or a very large 
orange, slice off one-third of fruit (discard) and 
remove pulp from remainder. Cut just enough 
of the yellow rind from the bottom to permit 
it to stand well on a plate. Into this shell 
place the sugar, pour over the brandy, and 
light after sending to table. The flavor given 
from the fruit will be exceptionally fine. 

MRS. GEO. LITTLE, Pacific Grove. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Use one small tablespoonful of chocolate 
to each cup of milk. Let it just come to a boil 
and serve with a little whipped cream put on 
the top of each cup. MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

ICED TEA. 

Mixed tea makes a better cold drink than 
either black or green. Strain it into a perfectly 
clean bottle and. keep on ice. When a drink is 
wanted, pour glass three-fourths full, sweeten 
lavishly and fill up glass with broken ice. 
Drink without cream. MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

2 Ibs. white sugar, 

2qts. water, 

2 ozs. tartaric acid, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

Mix water, sugar and acid, and let it get 
lukewarm. Beat eggs to stiff froth and mix 
with flour. Stir all together and boil three 
minutes. Bottle. Put three tablespoonfuls of 
the nectar in three-fourths glass of ice water, 
add one-half teaspoonful soda and flavoring 



BEVERAGES 291 

to taste. . Stir vigorously and drink. Very 
nice on warm days. MRS. H. M. FROST. 

RASPBERRY ACID. 

Dissolve sixozs. tartaric acid in two qts. of 
water; pour it over twelve Ibs. of red raspber- 
ries in a large bowl. Let it stand twenty-four 
hours. Strain without pressing. To one pt. 
of this liquor add one Ib. of white sugar. Stir 
until it dissolves and bottle, but do not cork 
for several days, when it is ready for use. To 
serve, put two or three tablespoonfuls of the 
acid in each glass and fill with cold water. 

MRS. H. A. MITCHELL, Palo Alto. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP. 

Take seven baskets of raspberries, add five 
tumblers of water and two ozs. tartaric acid. 
Put this in a crock and let it stand for twenty- 
four hours, after which put in a bag and drain 
for twenty-four hours. Add seven Ibs. sugar 
and let come to a boil. Skim, and set away to 
cool; bottle and cork. MRS. D. J. SPENCE. 

RARSPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Put the raspberries in a stone jar (not 
earthen or glazed ware) cover them with vine- 
gar and set in a cool place for three or four 
days. Strain through a bag, same as for jelly; 
put two Ibs. of sugar to three pts. of juice, 
and boil about twenty minutes, or until a lit- 
tle thick. Bottle, and cork. It does not re- 
quire sealing. MRS. W. C. WATERS. 

UNCOOKED FRAPPE. 

One dozen lemons squeezed as for lemon- 



292 BEVERAGES 

ade, six cupfuls sugar, six sliced bananas, one 
teacupful crushed strawberries, one teacupful 
crushed raspberries, three large oranges sliced 
thin. Let set until sugar thoroughly dissolves 
and the fruit juices are mixed, then add water 
to taste and serve. Miss TUCK, Pacific Grove. 

ORANGE PUNCH. 

T\vo oranges (juice only), one cupful sher- 
ry, two cupfuls sugar, white of one egg. Mix 
juice, sugar and sherry together and heat to 
boiling point: add well beaten white, mix 
thoroughly and let simmer five minutes; strain 
through muslin and when very cold pour over 
oranges and bananas, cut in small pieces, and 
candied cherries. Put fruit in frappe glasses 
and pour the syrup over. 

MRS. FRANCIS HILLS. 

MR. G WIN'S RECIPE FOR MAGNOLIA 
PUNCH. 

1 goblet brandy, 

2 goblet's Jamaica rum, 

1 teacupful green tea drawn in a pt. 

boiling water, 
8 tablespoonfuls currant jelly, 

1 goblet fine white sugar, 
Juice of 4 lemons, 

4 lemons cut in slices, 
4 oranges cut in slices, 
A few slices of pineapple, 

2 qts. champagne, 
Plenty of ice. 

Use dhly one cupful tea after it is drawn. 
JSverv drop of water hurts the punch. 

MRS. H. W. SEALE. 



BEVERAGES 293 

AUSTRALIAN GINGER BEER. 

Boil for three hours two Ibs. sugar and 
three ozs. crushed ginger root in two gallons 
of water, then take the whites and shells of 
three eggs, beat well together, add one tea- 
spoonful of lemon, and let it ferment for one 
night before using. MRS. W. J. BLACK. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Simmer bla/ckberries till they break; strain, 
and to each pt. of juice add a Ib. white sugar, 
one-half oz. cinnamon, one-fourth oz. rnace, 
two teaspoonfuls extract of cloves. Boil fif- 
teen minutes and when cool add a little bran- 
dy, though brandy is riot an essential. Other 
fruit cordials the same way. 

MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Three Ibs. sugar to one gallon of berries. 
Let stand until they ferment, then strain. 
Boil five minutes and put in bottles or jugs 
and cork tightly. Let it remain six weeks be- 
fore using.- MRS. W. J. BLACK. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Berries should be ripe and plump. Put 
into a large wooden or stone vessel with a 
tap. Pour on sufficient boiling water to cover 
them. When cool enough to bear your hand 
bruise well until all the berries are broken. 
Cover up, let stand till berries begin to rise to 
top, which will occur in three or four days. 
Then draw off the clear juice in another vessel, 
and add one Ib. sugar to every ten qts. of the 
.liquor, and stir thoroughly. Let stand six to 



294 BEVERAGES 

ten days in first vessel with tap. Then draw 
oft' through a jelly bag. Steep four oz. isin- 
glass in a pt. white wine for twelve hours; boil 
it over slow fire till all dissolved, then place 
dissolved isinglass in a gallon of blackberry 
juice, give them a boil together, and pour into 
the vessel. Let stand a few days to ferment 
and settle; draw off and keep in a cool place. 
Make all other berry wines in the same man- 
ner. MRS. A. A. WETHERILL. 

EGG NOG. 
(For six glasses.) 

6 eggs, 

1 pt. rich milk, 

6 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

Y 2 pt. best brandy, 

A little Jamaica rum and nutmeg. 
Beat yolks and sugar thoroughly; beat 
whites separately till very stiff; mix beaten 
yolks and sugar with milk and fill glasses half 
full with this. Grate in a little nutmeg; put 
brandy and rum together and divide evenly in 
the six glasses; over this put beaten whites. 
Stir very little with small spoon so as to make 
whites form into nuggets. 

MRS. FRANCIS HILLS. 

KOUMISS FOOD AND HEALTH. 

Into one qt. of new milk put one gill of 
fresh buttermilk and three or four lumps of 
sugar. Mix well and see that the sugar dis- 
solves. Put in a warm place to stand ten 
hours, when it will be thick. Pour from one 
vessel to another until it becomes smooth and 



BEVERAGES 295 

uniform in consistency. Bottle and keep in a 
warm place twenty-four hours it may take 
thirty-six hours in winter. The bottles must 
be tightly corked and the corks tied down. 
Shake well five minutes before opening. It 
makes a very agreeable drink, which is espe- 
cially recommended for persons who do not 
assimilate their food, and for young children. 
May be drank as freely as milk. Instead of 
buttermilk, some use a teaspoonful of yeast. 
The richer your milk, which should be unskim- 
med, the better will be your koumiss. 

MRS. S. W. CONKLIN. 



Candies 



"Sweets to the sweet." SHAKKSPKARE. 

FRENCH CREAMS (COOKED). 

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar 
(cane sugar is preferable), a. quarter of a 
spoonful of cream of tartar, and six table- 
spoonfuls of cold water. Mix these thoroughly 
in a saucepan before heating. Do not stir the 
syrup while boiling and keep it covered. Boil 
it until a small quantity dropped in water be- 
comes the consistency of honey. Let the 
syrup become cold, then stir until it creams. 
Turn out on kneading-board, add a few drops 
of flavoring, and knead. 

To MAKE CHOCOLATE DROPS. Mould small 
balls of the cream, flavored with vanilla, and 
place them on a platter pressing each into the 
desired shape. Melt unsweeted chololate in 
a double boiler and drop a small quantity 
from a spoon on each. 

DATE CREAMS. With a knife remove the 
seed from a perfect date and replace with a 
small quantity of the French cream. 

WALNUT CREAMS. Take a portion of the 
French cream, shape into balls about the size 
of a walnut, and press a walnut meat upon 
either side. Lay them away for a few hours 
to dry. 



CANDIES 297 

To MAKE NOUGAT. Divide the cream into 
three portions. Line a -small cardboard box 
with waxed paper, and place in it a layer of 
white cream flavored with vanilla. Sprinkle 
with nuts. Color the next portion pink, fla- 
vor with strawberry, and put a layer of it 
in the box, covering with nuts. Flavor the 
last portion with vanilla and work grated cho- 
colate into it until it is quite dark. Put a lay- 
er of this in the box and set it in a cool place 
for a day, or until it is firm. Turn out and 
cut into small squares. 

Mits. A. L: MITCHELL. 



FRENCH CREAMS (WITHOUT COOKING). 

Materials required: 

'2 Ibs. confectioner's sugar, triple x, 
1 cocoanut, 

% cake Baker's chocolate, 
% Ib. walnuts, shelled, 
% Ib. almonds, blanched and shelled, 
% Ib. dates, stoned, 
Whites of two eggs, same amount of. 

water, 
1 tablespoonful of vanilla, scant, 

Prepare the cream as follows: 

Always use confectioner's sugar rolled and 
salted. 

Beat whites of two eggs and put in a tum- 
bler, mark the quantity; pour in a dish and 
add the same amount of cold water as you 
had egg in the tumbler, and the scant table- 
spooni'ul of vanilla. Stir w r ell together and 
add slowly the two pounds of sugar. Stir 



298 CANDIES 

with a silver spoon until well mixed. This is; 
the foundation for all cream candies. 

FOR CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take part of the 
dough on your board, beat in a little more 
sugar, roll about an inch thick. Cut in small 
pieces, with a silver knife, and roll into balls 
and set aside to harden. Have prepared the- 
half cake of chocolate, melted, but not allowed 
to boil, drop in the balls, remove with a fork, 
place on paper and set in a cool place to hard- 
den. 

FOR WALNUT CREAMS. Cut other small 
pieces and shaping put halves of walnuts on 
each side. 

FOR ALMOND CREAMS. Roll almonds in* 
pieces of dough and then in granulated sugar., 
shaping nicely. 

FOR DATE CREAMS. Fill the opening in 
dates with dough and roll in granulated sugar. 

FOR COCOANUT CREAMS. Roll in dough as 
much cocoanut as it will take, roll out and cut 
into squares; some can be rolled into balls 
and covered with chocolate. 

Any other fruit may be used, but the cream 
is made the same. Miss A. CAMPBELL, S. F. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

2 cupfuls of molasses, 

1 cupful of brown sugar, 
Butter size of a walnut. 

Boil twenty minutes, then add 

2 teaspoonful of cream tartar,. 
1 teaspoonful of soda, 



CANDIES 299 

1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Turn into a buttered dish until cool enough 
'to pull. Miss LOTTIE CLARK. 

PRAUL1NES. 

2 cupfuls of granulated sugar, 
% cupful of water. 

% cupful of vinegar, 

Butter size of a walnut. 
Boil until it ropes from the spoon; then 
stir in one quart of peanuts and stir until 
white. MRS. E. F. HAWKINS. 

ALMOND CANDY. 

To each cupful of sliced almonds add one 
cupful of granulated sugar. Butter skillet 
well. Put in sugar first and then the almonds. 
As soon as sugar begins to dissolve, stir the 
above with well-buttered spoon and continue 
stirring slowly until a light brown, then pour 
on buttered platter and spread with a spoon. 

MRS. THOMAS HARRIS. 

PANOCHE. 

Three cupfuls brown sugar and one cupful 
of cream. Stir together well, and cook until 
it will make a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water. Before removing from fire, stir in one 
cupful of copped walnuts. Remove from stove 
and beat the whole until it begins to cream. 
Pour quickly into a pan and when cooling cut 
into squares. Miss FLORA CONOVEK. 

Pacific Grove. 

BROWN ALMOND BAR. 

Ten Ibs. sugar, large spoon cream tartar, 



300 CANDIES 

and when it begins to boil add six Ibs. al- 
mond nuts after having picked out all shells 
and dusted the nuts thoroughly; stir slowly 
keeping the sides of the basin washed until 
nuts are as brown as wished and slide off the 
spatula easily when raised up; pour out be- 
tween iron bars about one inch thick; when 
cold enough not to run, cut into bars with 
butcher knife and mallet. MRS. J. F. HAY. 



H.B. KE88LER 

AGENT FOR THE CELEBRATED 

Singer Sewing Machines 

Will sell machines on easy install- 

ments or for cash 
Will rent machines by the week 

or month 
Will repair machines of all kinds 

Will furnish supplies for all kinds. 

Will exchange for any kind. 

Will give satisfaction. Try him. 

Office next door to postoffice, SALINAS, CAL. 

FVWTITCHMECHEL 

-THE 



Gabilan Street, Salinas A large, fine and well select- 
- ed stock of goods kept constantly on hand. A perfect 
fit is guaranteed and workmanship excelled by none. 

Call and examine my stock and prices before going 
eelse where. 



Spanish Dishes 



"Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers," 

Onion is used in stews in large pieces; take 
out before serving. 

To skin green peppers put them into the 
coals, cook on all sides, then put in cold water. 

To skin tomatoes put them into boiling 
water for a few minutes. 

TONGUE WITH SPANISH SAUCE. 

One fresh beef tongue, one bottle of olives, 
two dozen large, clean, bright, dry Chili pep- 
pers, one teacupful (ordinary size) of best vin- 
egar, or, better still, squeeze the juice of two 
lemons into the cup and iill with vinegar, one 
teaspoonful of powdered summer savory, two 
tablespoonfuls finely chopped onion (should 
be small green onions, but dry will do), salt 
and olive oil as you like it. Some may, or will, 
try to make it without the oil. Do not waste 
your time, for the oil is the secret of this deli- 
cious dish. Dissolve a half teacupful of salt in 
enough boiling water to cover the tongue, 
cook until done, and only done, or you will 
have rags. When cool remove the skin and 
cut into very thin slices, and the tongue is 
ready for the sauce. Cut open the peppers the 
long way, take out every seed and vein, cut off 
the stem end, drop the skins into an agate 
kettle of boiling salted water (half cupful of 
salt). Press the skins under the water and 



302 SPANISH DISHES 

keep at boiling heat for two hours, but the 
water must not even simmer, or you will find 
both taste and color gone. Skim into chop- 
ping bowl be sure all the water is pressed out 
chop until you have a glowing mass of red 
pulp; press through a sieve to remove skins, 
and vour sauce is readv to season. Do not 

tx t/ 

put in all the salt needed, as the olives will add 
salt. Add oil and vinegar by the spoonful; no 
danger of curdling. Put in olives last. Dip 
each slice of tongue into the sauce, pile the 
slices into a deep dish and pour over them the 
remaining sauce; serve the next day on white 
platter and decorate with the small blanched 
stems of celery, which is exceedingly pretty 
against the red sauce. The sauce should be 
red and will be if your peppers grew the same 
year you make the sauce. It is delicious with 
roast turkey, cold ham, fried oysters, or with 
simply good bread. MRS. U. HARTNELL. 

MEXICAN FRITTERS. 

( From "Land of Sunshine.") 

1% Ibs. of flour, 
1% pts. of milk, 

1 po-rr 

* c nfe? 

A pinch of sugar and salt, 
3 tea-spoonfuls of baking powder. 
Mix the flour, baking; powder, sugar and 
salt together and sift. Beat the egg and mix 
it with the milk; beat again, then add to the 
other ngredients and stir thoroughly. Batter 
should be as thick as rather thick pancake bat- 
ter. Have some lard hot as for frying dough - 
amts; dip the mould carefully into the batter, 



SPANISH DISHES 303 

just enough to cover the bottom, then shake 
it gently in the lard until the fritters float 
away on the lard. When it is cooked to a 
golden brown take it out with a fork. Con- 
tinue to dip the mould first in the batter then 
in the lard, until all the batter is used up. 
Then either dip the cakes in a simple syrup of 
sugar and water, or powder with sugar. Any 
fancy mould can be used, or two spoons with 
the bowls facing each. LINDA BELL COLSON. 

ENCHILADAS, 

To make the tortillas (or cakes) take three 
teacupfuls flour, one cupful cold water and a 
teaspoonful salt; mix into stiff dough, roll very 
thin the size of a pie tin and -bake on top of 
stove; pile one on top of another on a plate 
and cover with a napkin to keep soft. Take 
about one dozen dried Chili peppers, cut open 
arid take out seeds and veins, put into agate 
kettle of boiling water, keep at boiling heat 
till peppers are soft. Press out water, and 
chop fine in a chopping bowl, then press 
through a sieve to remove skins. Put two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of lard in a frying pan; 
when hot, put salt, two cloves garlic cut fine 
and mashed, one heaping tablespoonful flour 
fried brown, then add Chilis and sufficient boil- 
ing w r ater to make thick sauce. Into this 
sauce while hot, dip one tortilla (or cake) at a 
time (they are better fried first in hot lard, but 
it is not necessary), place open on a large 
plate, spread on thick layer of grated cheese, a 
teaspoonful onion chopped fine, and strength 
taken out by soaking in hot water for a few 
moments, a layer of hard boiled eggs cut into 



304 SPANISH DISHES 

slices, and four or five olives. Cover this with 
Chili sauce, roll, and put on a large platter. 
After all the enchiladas have been made, pour 
over them any remaining sauce, set platter in- 
to the oven and serve very warm. 

MRS. L. H. GARRIGUS. 

TAMALES. 

6 Ibs. beef flank, 

1 Ib. dried Chili peppers, 
5 Ibs. white dried corn, 

2 teacupfuls of olives, 

1 teacupful of raisins, 

2 medium sized onions, 
8 cloves garlic, 

1 teaspoonful of summer savory. 

Boil meat in warm water seasoned with 
salt only till soft, too much boiling renders it 
tasteless; when done cut intouvery small pieces 
and put into a kettle. Keep broth in which 
meat was boiled. Prepare Chili as for enchila- 
das, mash the garlic and put into Chili. Take 
two tablespoonfuls lard, w r hen very hot fry 
onion, add two tablespoonfuls flour, fry 
brown, add Chili, salt and two teacupfuls of the 
gravy in which meat was boiled; pour this 
into kettle of stew, then the savory well pow- 
dered, pepper 4 , olives and raisins. If stew is 
not rich enough add more gravy or hot water. 
Do not cook stew more than ten minutes. 

Put corn into kettle of cold water with one 
tablespoonful of lime. Taste water and if it 
bites the tongue it is strong enough; boil till 
hull begins to peel; cool, then rinse in several 
waters rubbing between the hands until the 
hull and kernel separate. Grind on a metate,, 



SPANISH DISHES 305 

then put it into a pa.n, add salt and about 
one teacupful of very hot drippings, also re- 
maining gravy. 

Wash corn husks and dry with a cloth; 
then on each husk spread about one table- 
spoonful of corn, fill with stew, cover with 
another husk spread with corn, tie on both 
ends and middle with small strips of the husks; 
trim off the ends. Cover bottom of a kettle 
with husks (to prevent tamales from burning) 
put tamales into it and pour over two quarts 
of hot w r ater. Cover tight and steam about 
one hour; serve hot. 

The above measure will make about seven 
dozen tomales. If chicken is substituted for 
beef count on one chicken for one and a half 
dozen tamales, but the chicken should not be 
boiled. If a metate cannot be procured a, mor- 
tar can be used for grinding the corn. 

MRS. P. ZABALA.. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

Take out seeds and veins of peppers just- 
after they have turned red and before they 
have become dry. Put the cleaned peppers in- 
to a porcelain or granite kettle. Cover with* 
boiling water < and add one-half cupful of salt. 
Let the peppers remain in this at boiling heat 
on back of stove until tender. Then drain, 
and chop until they are a fine pulp, prc-ss 
through sieve and put into a, dish (not metal). 
Put back ' on stove, add vinegar and salt to 
taste,? and allow to boil thoroughly. This 
should be of the consistency of catsup, so if it 
is too thick some water may be added. Bottle 
and seal while still hot. This makes an ex<-:->]- 



306 SPANISH DISHES 

lent sauce for cold meats; especially tongue. 

Before using mix with the sauce the juice 
of one lemon and a tablespoonful of olive oil. 
Pour this over the meat, which has been cut- 
in thin slices, then add olives. 

MRS. H. SAMUELS. 

DRESSING FOR FOWLS. 

Half loaf of stale bread soaked in cold 
water until bread is quite soft. Drain off the 
the water. Take three (doves of garlic, mash 
into a pulp, and one onion cut into very small 
pieces, and fry in three tablespoonfuls of lard, 
together with the fowls giblets cut in small 
pieces. After these have been fried add the 
bread, one chopped dressed tomato, salt and 
pepper and one cupful of olives. Stir very lit- 
tle and set back on stove for about ten min- 
utes. MRS. P. ZABALA. 

STEW. 

2 Ibs. stew meat. 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

1 tomato, 

1 green pepper, 

1 clove garlic, 

% small onion. 

Cut meat into small pieces, put into kettle 
cook well, (if meat is lean fry in lard) add 
garlic cut very fine and mashed, onion, to- 
mato skinned and cut into small pieces, green 
pepper, salt and pepper; into this put one ta- 
blespoonful flour fry it brown, enough boiling 
water to make a rich strew. Cover and cook 
slowlv for about one-half hour. Chili sauce 



SPANISH DISHES 307 

can be used instead of tomatoes and green 
peppers. MRS. A. J. ABBOTT. 

STEAK. 

Fry brown a medium sized onion; add to 
this four tomatoes and two green peppers 
sliced thin, salt, and stew down to a thick 
sauce. When the steak has been fried and 
placed on a platter, turn the sauce into the 
meat pan for a few minutes, then pour over 
the steak and serve. MRS. C. K. TUTTLE, 

Pacific Grove. 

TRIPE. 

Wash and stew about two pounds of tripe; 
when tender cut in narrow- strips. Have ready 
a skillet with hot butter, put in the tripe and 
allow to simmer slowly, then pour on the sauce 
and cook together for one-half an hour. 

SAUCE. 

1 can tomatoes, 

1 dry onion, 

2 red Chili peppers, 
A little parsley. 

Boil well, then strain, add a little butter 
and flour and cook briskly on tripe. 

MRS. G. B. RICHMOND. 

STEW WITH ALMOND SAUCE. 

1 Ib. meat or 1 small flowl, 
4 ounces (about one handful) shelled 
almonds, 

3 medium-sized tomatoes, 
1 slice dried bread, 



308 SPANISH DISHES 

1 small onion, 

3 cloves, an inch stick of cinnamon, 

1% dozen seeded raisins, 

Small bouquet of parsley, thyme, and 

bay leaf 

Fry the onion and spices in three table- 
spoonfuls of lard; when, browned, remove and 
fry. the almonds, raisins, and bread, and mash 
to a smooth paste. Boil the tomatoes separ- 
ately and pass through a sieve. After frying* 
a few moments, add the paste, raisins etc. 
The prepared ingredients are now ready to be 
placed in the sauce pan in which the meat has 
been cooking about two hours. In a half hour 
more the meat will be ready for the table when 
capers and olives may be added. 

BERTHA B. WILCOXEX. 

A^ALONES. 

Two large red abalones. Clean well, cut off 
outside rim and put in a clean canvas bag and 
pound until they become a mass of pulp. Re- 
move from bag and boil in enough water to 
cover them for five minutes. The water must 
be hot when the fish is added Pour off the 
water and save it Chop the abalones fine in 
a chopping bowl. Remote the seeds and veins 
from eight large ( 'hili peppers. Put in oven 
two minutes and then in hot water to boil for 
five minutes. Pass through a sieve or work 
into a creamy mass with the hand removing 
all the skin. This is ea-sily done with the hand 
by adding afew spoonfuls of water and squeez- 
ing gently blowing away the skins. Fry in a 
slice of roll butter one-fourth inch thick one 
small onion and one clove of garlic until a light 



SPANISH DISHES 309 

brown. Add abaloiies, one spoonful flour, 
juice of a lime, salt and Chili sauce. Toss 
about until all are well mixed. Add liquor 
they have been boiled in and cook slowly 
thirty minutes. MRS. T. HUGHES. 

COD FISH STEW. 

Soak four Ibs. cod fish in cold water for 
ten hours, remove bones then tear into shreds. 
Brown one tablespoonful flour in two of hot 
olive oil, into it put two mashed cloves of garlic, 
two tomatoes cut into small pieces, one-fourth 
onion, and pepper. Pour boiling water enough 
to make a thick stew, put cod fish into this 
gravy and cook slowly for half an hour. 

MRS. P. ZABALA. 

TOMATOES. 

2 large tomatoes, 

1 medium sized onion, 

4 green peppers, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Skin and cut tomatoes and peppers, 
cut onion very fine, fry in one tablespoonful 
hot olive oil, first onion then tomatoes and 
peppers till well done. Stir occasionally. Very 
good for warm meats. 

Lard may be used instead of oil but sauce 
must then be served hot. MRS. J. B. PORTER. 

STEWED BEANS. 

Put one pint of red beans in cold water, 
boil quickly until soft, add boiling water if 
necessary. Put into a frying pan one and a 
half tablespoonmls of lard, when hot add a 
large piece of onion, fry well, pour in the beans 



310 SPANISH DISHES 

(dry) and salt to taste, add one green pepper, 
or Chili pepper, fry well, stirring continually 
to keep from burning. Cover pan with the 
sauce in which beans were boiled. If there is 
not enough to nearly cover the pan add boil- 
ing water, cover, set back on stove to cook 
slowly and consume the sauce until left as dry 
as desired. 

N. B Take out onion before serving. 

MRS. P. ZABALA. 

RICE. 

A tablespoonful of lard to a cup of rice. 
Melt your lard in a frying pan till hot, \vash a 
cup of rice till clean, then fry it in the lard. 
Cut a piece of a small onion, and two or three 
tomatoes, salt and pepper and fry all together 
for about ten minutes on a slow fire, then fill 
your pan with cold water and boil it on top 
of stove, just as you would plain rice, until 
done. MRS. J. H. HARRIS. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Six medium sized potatoes peeled, and 
each cut into about eight pieces. Put two ta- 
blespooiifuls of lard into a frying pan, when 
hot put in the potatoes, fry well, and add one 
clove of garlic cut fine and mashed, a small 
piece of onion, one large tomato dressed and 
chopped, one green pepper without seeds, 
chopped, salt and pepper. Cover with warm 
water, and allow to simmer for one-half hour. 

MRS. P. ZABALA. 

EGGS IN TOMATO SAUCE. 

Take one quart of cooked tomatoes and 



SPANISH DISHES 311 

pass through a colander. (A very carefully 
prepared sauce should be subjected to the 
sieve that no seeds appear). Place on the 
stove three dark green Chillis, allowing them 
to blister on all sides; then wrap them in folds 
of a cloth for a few moments when they can 
be easily peeled leaving digestible peppers. 
Take out the seeds and shred, add the chilis to 
the tomatoes. Have ready in a sauce-pan 
three tablespoons hot fat in which have been 
fried to a light brown a small onion and, if de- 
sired, a clove of garlic. When these are taken 
from the fat, add the tomato, allowing them 
to cook ten minutes. Lastly, break in six or 
eight eggsjjafc a time. Salt to taste. The ad- 
dition of a little thyme and parsley gives an 
agreeable flavor. Set the sauce-pan on back 
of the stove, cover, and cook very slowly 
twenty minutes. Garnish with olives when 
ready for the table. MRS. WM. F. SMITH. 

POACHED EGGS SPANISH. 

Make Spanish sauce of tomatoes, peppers, 
onions, etc., and when done drop in eggs. 
When poached take out carefully on platter 
and pour Spanish sauce around them. 

MRS. H. L. BRADFORD. 

OMELET. 

6 eggs, 

1 tomato, 

1 green pepper, 

1 green onion. 

Bent eggs, add salt and pepper and green 
onion chopped fine. Should there be no green 
onion take small piece of dry onion finely chop- 



312 SPANISH DISHES 

ped and fry well before frying the following in- 
gredients. Into a frying pan put one dessert 
spoonful of lard and when hot fry tomato and 
green pepper, then put in eggs. When brown- 
ed on one side turn by placing a plate over 
the omelet and turning omelet onto the plate, 
then putting it back into the pan and brown 
on the other side. MRS. H. L. BRADFORD. 



TELEPHONE, TELEGRAPH AND SPECIAL SERVICE GIVEN TO 
MESSENGER SERVICE AT HOTEL COMMERCIAL TRAVELERS 



SPECIAL RATES TO 
THEATRICAL PARTIES 



Bardin Hotel 

Hotel Abbott 

J. J. THOMPSON, 



THE LARGEST AND FINEST 
HOTE LS IN THE CITY 



RATES: t^ooand Si.soper dy SALINAS, CAL. 



J. UJt 



Loans Made on 

Real Estate 



CITY TREASURER AND COLLECTOR 



REAL ESTATE AND INSTANCE AGENT 



Property for non-residents rented and cartel for Notary Public 

MAIN STREET SALINAS CITY 



WEIGHTS A^D MEASURES 

1 CU P makes ^ pint 

2 cups sugar or butter make i pound 

4 cups sifted flour make i pound or i quart 

3 cups meal make i pound 

4 tablespoonfuls make i wine glassful 

2 wine glassfuls make i gill 

2 gills make i cup 

1^2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar .... make i ounce 

2 tablespoonfuls flour make i ounce 

i rounding tablespoonful solid fat makes i ounce 

4 teaspoonfuls salt make i ounce 

4 level teaspoonfuls make i tablespoonful 

10 ordinary sized eggs ; make i pound 



USI|SlG SODA 

i level teaspoonful to V 2 pint of molasses. 

i level teaspoonful to i pint of thick sour milk. 

YZ level teaspoonful to i pint of sour cream. 



How TO REMOVE STAINS. All stains should be re- 
moved before the articles are put in the washtub. The 
sooner a stain is treated the more readily it will yield to 
the treatment. Pour boiling water through fruit stains; 
when obstinate soak in a solution of oxalic acid. Wash 
vaseline stains in alcohol; paint in turpentine or 
alcohol; varnish, in alcohol; grass or other green 
vegetable stains in alcohol, kerosene or molasses; 
for stains from blood, meat juice, use white of egg in 
cold waier. In the case of milk, cream, sugar or syrup 
stains, soak in cold water and wash with soap and cold 
water. Tar, wheel grease or machine oil stains should 
be rubbed with lard and allowed to stand a few minutes, 
then they should be washed with soap and cold water.. 
Tea, coffee or cocoa stains should be removed with boil- 
ing water; if obstinate, with a weak solution of oxalic 
acid. Maria Parloa, in Ladies' Home Journal. 



Fruit 



Mush 
Meats Eggs Etc. 



Griddle Cakes 



Hot Bread and Coffee served with Meats 
(Finger bowls placed at each plate, with Fruit. > 



Soup 

Deviled Crab Escalloped Oysters Patties, Etc,. 
Croquettes 



Chicken or Meats 
Salad 



Dessert \vith Coffee 
Wines if desired (Finger bowls with dessert) 



Oysters on Half Shell 



Soup 

Fish 
Celery Olives Radishes Salted Almonds, etc. 



Entrees 

Meats 
Game 

Salad 
Cheese Crackers 



Dessert 
Black Coffee Finger Bowls 



WINES (If Used) 

With Soup . With Meat 

Sauterne or Sherry Choice of Hock or Claret 

With Game and Salad With Dessert 

Burgundy or Port Champagne or Still White Wines 



N. B. Serve pieces of lemon with oysters. 
Never serve two vegetables with one course. 
Finger bowls should be one-third full and contain a 
slice of lemon, and in very hot weather a little ice. 



The above menus are given for the benefit of young 
and inexperienced housekeepers. Each course is separ- 
ated by dashes. 

MRS. B. 1>. HOLLENBECK. 



THINGS 



Celery can be kept two weeks by first rolling it in 
brown paper then in a towel and keeping in cool place. 
Before preparing for table, place in pan of cold water for 
an hour. 

To restore curdled mayonnaise, place a tablespoon- 
ful melted butter, (which must be cold) in a round bot- 
tom basin and gradually work in mayonnaise. (This is 
for a small amount of mayonnaise). 

Before using new en-ameled cooking utensils, grease 
inside with butter. This prevents cracking and chip- 
ping. 

For cleaning water bottles, decanters and glass 
jugs, cut a lemon into small pieces, put into bottle with 
little water, and shake. Cut potato is also good. 

To prevent glass-ware breaking when pouring hot 
liquids into them, put in a silver fork or spoon first, then 
pour in liquid. Let it remain for a few minutes after 
liquid is in. 

Potatoes baked in their skins will always be mealy 
if a small end is cut off when put into oven, and when 
done taken out with a cloth and pressed well with the 
hands. 

A pinch of soda placed in milk which is to be scalded 
will prevent it curdling. 

The best thing for fish bone in the throat is a raw 
egg swallowed immediately. 

Wine stains can be removed by pouring boiling 
water through the stain before it has had time to 
thoroughly dry, then let it remain in boiling water for 
few minutes. 

To clean zinc, use a piece of soft flannel moistened 
with kerosene. Where the spots are. of long standing 
use a little powdered Bath brick in addition to the kero- 
sene. 

The colors in cotton goods may be fixed by alum 



or salt. Alum is the better agent, but salt is the cheap- 
er and more convenient. Dissolve a pint of salt in four 
gallons of water and soak the garments in this for an 
hour. If alum is used allow one ounce to each half gal- 
lon of water. The solutions must be cold when the arti- 
cles are soaked in them. 

Badly tarnished brass may be cleaned with ease if 
it is first rubbed with vinegar and salt, or with oxalic 
acid. Follow with a good washing in soap and water 
and then polish with any of the cleaning preparations 
that are on the market. 

To freshen a room, that has become stuffy from 
too much use or from tobacco smoke may be ren- 
dered sweet and habitable by placing half an ounce of 
spirits of lavender and a lump of salt of ammonia in a 
wide-mouthed fancy jar or bottle and leaving it uncov- 
ered. This is a pleasant deodorizer and disinfectant, 
filling the room with a delicate perfume. 

of Beauty in^^tf^ 



beaded Glass 

POR DOORS, WINDOWS, 

TRANSOMS AND SKYLIGHTS 

Special designs (with estimates) on application. 

Residence, Church and Public Buildings. 



The term Art in connection with our pro- 
ductions is correctly used. Prices, however, 
jure no higher than others ask for ordinary 
work. , 

flNQERSON & QL ASER CO, 121 New Montgomery St 

PROPRIETORS 

Pioneer Glass Works San Francisco, Cal. 



SPRINGES 




C. T. ROM1E, PROPRIETOR 

F. W. SCHROEDER, MANAGER 



The Carlsbad of America 

A health resort for well folks. 

There are iron springs for the blood and sulphur 
springs for the complexion which are not to be compar- 
ed with any of the many springs in the State. 

And with the health and good spirits that come 
from the waters, the delightful climate, the plunge in the 
bath or the walks in the woods and over the hills, goes 
an appetite that can only be satisfied by such a table as 
Paraiso Hot springs are noted for. 

Quail and deer abound in the hills and fish are plen- 
tiful in Arroyo Seco. 

Rates $2 to $2.50 per day. Monthly rates $10.50 to 
$16 a week, including board and room. Reduced rates 
to children. 



OCCIDENTAL 
HOTEL 



San 



A QUIET HOME FOR FAMILIES 

Centrally located for those 
who appreciate comfort 
and attention. 



IB. 

MANAGER 



VISIT THE 

NEW STORE 




which will open about April 
1st, 1902, with an entire 
new stock. This store is 
being built expressly for us, 
and will be modern in every 
detail. We will have 4224 
sq. ft. of floor space. We 
will carry the best stock of 
GENERAL DRY GOODS 
that money can buy. 

T. C. REAVIS & CO., 
164-166 Main St., Salinas, Cal. 



Monterey : County : Bank 



CITY, CflLi. 

Capital subscribed $200,000 

Capital paid in 120,000 

Reserve . 30,000 



DIRECTORS WM. VANDERHURST, President; J. B. 
IVERSON. Vice President; HIRAM CORY. L. W. 
SANBORN, H. E. ABBOTT, FRANCIS DOUD, C. T. 
ROMIE. 

LUTHER RODGERS CASHIER 

Transacts a General 1'anking Business. Exchange 
on San Francisco, New York, London, etc. 



INDEX 



8OUPS. 

PAGE PAGE 

Amber 24 Cream of Tomato 25 

Baked Milk 30 Dice for Soup 18 

Barley Water 29 Flaxseed Lemonade. . . .29 

Bean 24 Green . 19 

Beef Essence 29 Green Turtle 21 

Beef Tea 30 Gumbo 22 

Bouillon 20 Mulled Buttermilk 30 

Caramel 1 8 Noodle 20* 

Chicken 22 Oyster 21 

Chicken Broth, plain. . .30 Oyster, mock 21 

Chowder, Clam 28 Puree of Peas 24 

Chowder, Fish 27 Rice Tomato 19 

Chowder, Nantucket ... 28 Soup .24 

Clam 21 Stock 17, 18 

Clear 19 Tomato 25 

Cream of Asparagus ... .26 Toast Water 29 

Cream of Celery 26 To Calify Soups 17 

Cream of Corn 27 Vegetable 23 

Cream of Sago 26 Vermicelli , 20 

KISII. 

Cod (fresh), boiled 35 Salmon, baked 36 

Fish, baked 35 Salmon Roll 34 

Fish, broiled 33 Salmon and Potatoes. . .33 

Fish, planked 36 Sole or Flounder, fried. 36 

Mackerel, baked 32 Sole, fillet of 34 

Rock Cod, baked . . .32, 35 Sole, tenderloin of 33 

STUFFINGS FOR FISH. 

Pread ....37 Meat 37 

FISH SAUCES. 

Anchovy 39 Hollandaise 40 

Boiled Egg 39 Oyster 39 

Caper 39 Parsley 40 

Drawn Butter ...-38 Pickle 38 

Fi^h 40 Tartare 40, 



II 



INDEX 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES. 



PAGE 

Abalone, fried 54 

Abalone Fritters 54 

Angels On Horseback . . 53 
Beans, Boston baked... 65 
Lieef, Method of warm- 
ing cold roast 57 

Birds In Nest 55 

Brains, baked 59 

Canapes Lorenzo 48 

Cheese Straws 69 

Cheese Chips 69 

Cheese, Bohemian Club. 68 

Chicken, jellied 42 

Chicken Croquettes 43 

Chicken Turnovers 43 

Chicken Terrapin ...... 43 

Chipped Beef Fricaseee 60 

Codfish Balls 54 

Codfish Cream 50 

Creole of Crab 47 

Crabs, creamed 47 

Crabs, deviled. ....... .46 

Crab a la Newburg .... 46 

Eggs a la Virginia 54 

Eggs, a la Benedict 56 

Eggs, digestible boiled . . 55 
Eggs, scrambled with To- 
matoes 55 

Fish Balls 53 

Fritters, Apple 63 

Fritters, Fruit 63 

Fritters, Hominy 63 

Frogs Legs 56 

German Cheese Butter.. 68 

Ham Cakes 58 

Kidney Saute 59 

Lobster Croquettes 49 

Macaroni au Beurre. . . .70 



PAGE 

Macaroni au gratin 70 

Macaroni and Cheese .... 69 
Macaroni and Oysters. 70, 7 1 
Macaroni with onions. ..70 
Minced Meat on Toast. .56 
Mock Oysters of Corn. . . 62 

Omelet, Cheese 68 

Omelet 63 

Omelet, Sardine 62 

Oysterettes 53 

Oysters, broiled 51 

Oysters, creamed 51 

Oyster Cocktail . . 52 

Oysters, fricasseed 52 

Oysters, scalloped 51 

Pancake, German 64 

Patties, Oyster ---52 

Peppers, baked 60 

Peppers, stuffed 61 

Potato Pudding 67 

Potpourri - 59 

Salmon, creamed 50 

Sandwiches, Egg .66 

Sandwiches, Lettuce ... 66 
Sandwiches, Oysters. . . .65 
Sandwiches, Watercress. 66 

Shrimps, creamed 47 

Sturgeon Souffle 53 

Sweetbreads, fried 57 

Terrapin Stew 44 

Terrapin Stew, mock . . . 45 
Toast, German . . .64 

Toast, Mutton 57 

Toast, Onion 64 

Tripe, Club Style 58 

Turbot 49 

Wellington Pie 58 

Welsh Rare-bit 66,67 



INDEX 



III 



MEATS. 



PAGE 

Beef, curry tn cold roast. 76 

Beef, fillet of 77 

Beef Heart, roast. . . 77 

Beef, roast .73 

Beef Roll, roast 78 

Beef Steak, stuffed 81 

Beef Stew 77 

Heef, to corn -82 

Calf's Head 80 

Cold Meat Stew 81 

Ham , baked 80 

Ham, boiled . . 80 

Meat and Suitable Sauces82 

Meat, chopped 76 

Meat Sauces 

Brown .84 

Gravy . 82 



PAGE 
Maitred'HotelBut'r84 

Mint 84 

Mushroom 83 

Oyster . . . ^ 85 

Tomato ..." 83 

Tomato Jelly 85 

Mutton, curried 81 

Mutton, roast 73 

Pig, roast 78 

Pork, fried in batter. . . .79 

Pork, roast 73 

Pot Roast 74,75 

Veal Cutlets 78 

Veal L,oaf 79 

Veal, roast 73,75 

Yorkshire Pudding 74 



SAUCES FOR MEATS. 

Catsup, cold . 89 Curry 86 

Catsup, Cucumber 90 Epicurean Chow. . 87 

Catsup, Tomato 90 Mustard, French. 92 

Chile Sauce 89 Mustard, made 92 

Chow Chow 86, 87, 88* Mustard, prepared 92 

< how Chow, Tomato. . .88 Sauce Piquante .91 

Chutney, Tomato .... 91 

POULTRY AND GAME. 



Chicken, creamed 99 

Chicken, fricassee.... 98 
Chicken, fried . . . 98, 103 

Chicken Jumbole 101 

Chicken Pie 101 

Chicken andRice(curry) 100 

Chicken, roast 97 

Chicken, smothered . . 101 

Chicken Stew 100 

Duck(can vasback , )roast .96 
Ducks (wild), roast. . . .96 



Force Meat, Oyster. . . .94 
.How to carve a fcwl. . . .94 
Lemon Sauce for Boiled 

Fowl 94 

Noodles 100 

Pigeon Stew, Club 

House 103 

Quail, broiled 102 

Quail, on toast 102 

Turkey, roast 94 

Venison, roast haunch. 102 



IV 



INDEX 



SALADS 



PAGE 

Apple 1 08 

Apple or Tomato Cups .116 

Aspic Jelly 115 

Banana 108 

'Cabbage 111,112 

Cherry .... > 109 

Chicken 105 

Crab 106 

Cream 116 

Cucumber 112 

Dressing 117 

Dressing, boiled 116 

Dressing, cooked 118 

Dressing, French. 118 

Dressing, Mayonnaise 117 
Dressing, sour cream .117 



PAGE 

Eggs, stuffed 114, 115 

Lobster 107 

Marinating 1 19 

Nasturtium 113 

Orange 108 

Oyster 106 

Potato 1 13, 1 14 

Russian no 

Shrimp ... 106 

Strawberry 109 

Tomato . 110 

Tomato with Celery . . 1 1 1 
Tomato with Dressing 1 1 1 

Vegetable no 

Vegetable, Aspic Jelly 109 
Waldorf . . . 108 



VEGETABLES. 



Asparagus ... 123 

Beets ... 122 

Beans, (Spanish) 127 

Cabbage, creamed. ... 125 

Cabbage, dainty 126 

Carrots, three ways of 

cooking 124 

Cauliflower ana Cheese 123 

Celery, fried 123 

Celery, stev.ci. ... 123 

Corn, to can 122 

Egg Plant 124 

Onions, baked.... 125 
Onions, boiled 125 



Oyster Plant 127 

Potatoes, creamed 122 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise. . . 121 
Potatoes, a quick prepa- 
ration of 121 

Potatoes, scolloped ... 121 

Slaw, cold 126 

Slaw, hot . 126 

Time-table for cooking 

vegetables 121 

Tomatoes, broiled 125 

Tomatoes, cooked 124 

Tomatoes, scalloped. . . 124 



BREAD. 



Biscuit, baking powder. 144 

Biscuit, English. 146 

Biscuit, light for tea... 145 

Biscuit, raised 145 

Biscuit, sour milk 145 

Biscuit, sweet. : 144 

Bread 132 

Bread, brown. ... 134, 135 



'-'read, compressed yeast 130 
' read, delicious white 129 

'read, Graham 134 

Bread, raisin 133 

Bread, salt-rising '30 

Buns 147 

Buns, Graham 148 

Buns, sweet 148 



INDEX 



BREAD. 



(Continued] 



PAGE 

Cakes, batter I 50 

Cakes, flannel. 150 

Cakes, griddle 149 

Coffee Cake (German). 146 
Corn Bread, Cousin Het- 
ty's soft 136 

< rakers, Graham ..148 
Dumplings for stew . . '48 

Fiuit Loaf. . . 133 

Gems, Graham 140 



ake 



] 3 6 
138 
'37 



Johnny 

Muffins ... . 

Muffins, Corn 

Muffins, Cream . . . 
Muffins, delicious corn 137 

Muffins, Graham 140 

Muffins, raised ] 39 

Muffins, sour cream .139 



PAGE 

Muffins, Tea 139 

Muffins, Wheat 138 

Popovers 1 43 

Puffets ] 43 

Rolls, Breakfast . . .14! 

Rolls, < otton 142 

Rolls, Graham 1 40 

Rolls, Parker House. ..14! 

Rolls, Spanish 142 

Rolls, Vienna. 142 

Rusks 144 

Sally Lunn 143 

Scotch Short Bread .... 1 33 

W T affles 149 

Waffles, raised 149 

Yeast, Potato. ^3^- 
Yeast, reliable 132 



PIES. 



Apple 159 

Apple, custard 159 

Apple, green 159 

Bramberry Tart 1 58 

Chocolate . . . .... 156 

Cream. '55 

Cream, Prune 155 

Cream, Date 1 55 

Currant I6o 

Custard 158 

Harlequin I6o 

Lemon 156, 157 

Mince Meat.. 161,162,163 
Mince Meat, mock.... 164 



Oyster Pate Shells 152 

Pastry 154 

Pastry, for one pie .... 1 5! 

Pastry, roll butter 153 

Paste, puff 153 

Pear I6o 

Pie Crust 152 

Pie Crust, simple 152 

Pineapple 155 

Pumpkin 161 

Sour Cream 156 

Squash 161 

Transparent 1 60 



PUDDINGS. 



Apple, boiled 173 Brown Betty 178 

Batter, baked 178, 179 Carrot 182 

Batter, French 179 Cheese 184 

Blackberry, steamed. . .17! Chocolate Ij5 



VI INDEX 

PUDDINGS. 

(Continued.] 
PAGE PAGE 

Cocoanut Iy6 Plum, economical 168 

Cottage lyg Plum, English 1 65 

Cracker 1 84 Prune 1 80 

Dutch Apple 181 Queen 177 

Egg 175 Rice, Plum .168 

Fig 173 Rice, (without eggs) . . iffe 

Fruit, boiled. 173 Russian 177 

I' ruit, steamed 17! Sago '. '83 

Graham, steamed 172 Six-cup 1 74 

Indian, baked ... 183 Snow 1 76 

Indian, steamed 1.7! Spice 172 

Orange , 1 80 Sponge I8o 

Orleans 174 Steamed 170 

Peach Cobblers. 181 Suet 169,170 

Plum 167 Tapioca 1 83 

Plum Christmas 166 Vegetable. .182 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Favorite 18-3 Sour 1 86 

Foaming 186 Strawberry. 184, 185 

Hard 187 Wine 186,187 

Orange !8-"> 

FANCY DESSERTS. 

A dish of Snow 196 Fruit Tapioca Pudding 

Apple Cake 198 197, 198 

Bananas, creamed 200 Jelly, Coffee 202 

Blanc-Mange 189 Jelly, Pineapple Vo2 

Corn Starch Banana Jelly, Prune 2o2 

Pudding 196 Jelly, Wine 203 

Cream, Banana 192 Lemon Cheese Cake . . . 199 

Cream Italian Ig2 Lemon Sponge Pie. . . .199 

Cream, Lemon. . . .193, 194 Moonshine. 197 

Cream, Orange 193 Orange Jelly Baskets . . 2ol 

Cream, Pineapple 195 Pineapple Macaroon 

Cream, Sago 194 Pudding 200 

Cream, Spanish 1g5 Pineapple Sponge 196 

Cream, velvet 192 Puffs, Cranberry 2ol 

Cream, whipped 193 Puffs, Raspberry 196 

Delicate Dessert. .... Igo Puffs, Strawberry 189 

Duchess Pudding 200 Rolegoes 2ol 

Floating Island 188 Salted Nuts 203 



INDEX 



VII 



FANCY DESSERTS. 



[Conti 
PAGE 

Shortcake , Straw- J 88 

berry '.189 

Snow Pyramids Igy 

CAKE 

Angel 217 

Bachelor Buttons. . . . 246 
Brown Stone Front. . . .213 
Brown StoneFront, fruit? 13 
Cake with Almond 

Filling . 232 

Caramel 232 

Chocolate ..215, 23o 

Chocolate Eclairs 2H! 

Chocolate Layer, 229 

black . . . . .23o 

Chocolate, loaf 22.) 

Cocoanut Hill 241 

Coffee 212, 213 

Corn Starch 225 

Cookies .... 248 

Cookies, Almond 249 

Cookies, Ammonia. .. .249 

Cookies, Chocolate 248 

Cookies, Cream 247 

Cookies, Crisp 249 

Cookies, Currant 251 

Cookies, Ginger or Mo- 
lasses 251 

Cookies, Graham 25o 

Cookies, Scotch 25o 

Cookies, soft 248 

Cookies, Walnut 2-17 

Cookies, Cocoanut 248 

Cream, French 233 

Cream, Walnut 234 

Cream Puffs 239 

Crullers 245 

Date. 2T> 

Devil's Food . 218, 219 
Dried Apple, fruit. . 208 
Drop Cakes, ginger. . . .213 



nued] 

PAGE 

Strawberry Salad 19o 

Tipsy Cake 198 

Tropical Salad 191 

Doughnuts 244, 245 

Doughnuts, Christmas.. 244 

Doughnuts, fine 245 

Economical 235; 

Kour Hundred 219 

Fruit 2o6, 2o7, 2o9 

Fruit, cheap 2o7 

Fruit, layer 231 

Fruit, plain 2o7,21o 

Fruit, wedding 2o8 

Fruit, white 2o9 

Gingerbread 243,244 

Gingerbread, fruit.... 244 
Ginger Snaps. .. .241, 242 
Ginger Snaps, English. .242 

Hermits 251 

Ice Cream 224 

Jam 215 

Jelly Roll 2 3 8 

Jenny Lynde 2 3 4 

Kisses, sugar a41 

Lancaster Beauty .... 22G 

Layer 235 

Lemon Layer '. . . .236 

Lizzie's Cup 219 

Loaf 225 

Macaroons 240 

Macaroons, nut 240 

Marble .214 

Marsh Mallow 236, 237 

Marguerites 241 

Minnehaha 231 

Mocha 229 

Nora 224 

Nut 210, 211 

Peach I'lossoni 238 

Plain... ...220 



VI11 



INDEX 



CAKE. 

[Continued.) 



PAGE 

Pork 212 

Potato 226 

Pound 21G 

Pound, Mock 216 

Ribbon 235 

Shrewsbury Cakes 24G 

Snow 22:< 

Spice 212 

Sponge 227, 228 

Sponge, velvet 228 

Sunny Side 224 



PAGE 

Sunshine 228 

Walnut 211 

Walnut Wafers. . .246, 247 

White 221 

White, layer 236 

White Mountain 222 

White Perfection 222 

White Snow 223 

World's Fair 220 

Yellow.. ..217 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FHOSTINGS. 



Almond 254 

Almond Paste 254 

Apple 250 

Caramel 257 

Chocolate 258 

Cocoanut 256 

Cream 258 

Fig 255 

Frosting, boiled ... 259 

Frosting, clear 258 

Frosting, gelatine 258 



Icing 259 

Lemon Cheese. . . .n , . . . 253 

Lemon Jelly . . 252 

Lemon Paste 252 

Macaroon. 257 

Marsh Mallow 257 

Nut ...2 55 

Orange 253 

Pineapple 255 

Prune 256 

Strawberry 2-56 



FROZEN DAINTIES. 



Bananas Frozen 269 

Bisque 265 

Cantaloupe Frozen . . . .269 

Frozen Pudding 269 

Ice Orange 268 

Ice' Cream 261,262,263 

Ice Cream, -Almond . . . .264 
Ice Cream, Apricot. . . .264 
Ice Cream, baked. . . . .263 
Ice Cream, Philadelphia. 262 
Ice Cream, Pistachio. . .264 
Punch, Roman 268,269 



Sherbet 265 

Sherbet, Lemon ; .265 

Sherbet, i.Orange 26y 

Sherbet, Peach 266 

Sherbet, Pineapple. . . .266 
Sherbet, Raspberry .... 267 
Sherbet, Strawberry. .266 
Sherbet, white velvet . . 265 

Water Ice, Lemon 268 

Water Ice, Orange. . . .268 
Water Ice, Raspberry . . 268 



INDEX 



FRUITS, PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 



PAGE 

Apples, steamed *75 

Apricot Jam 271 

Best way of cooking 

dried fruits. ... ....'. 7(> 

Cherries, pickled 279 

Cherries, spiced 27!> 

Cranberry Sauce 270 

Cucumbers, in oil 28j 

Cucumber Pickles 2S(> 

Currants, spiced . 279 

Figs, pickled 282 

Kigs, preserved . 272 

Gooseberry Soy 279 

Grapes, pickled.. 27g 

Jelly, Apple 277 

Jelly, Apricot 278 

Jelly, Currant. . . .277, 27s 

Jelly, Quince 278 

Lemon Hutter 27("> 

Marmalade, California.. 274 



PAGE: 

Marmalade, Fig . . 274 
Marmalade, Orange 273,274 

Mixed Pickles 284 

Mustard Pickles 284 

Oil Pickles 287 

Onions, pickled 284 

Peaches, candied 275 

Peaches, pickled 280 

Peaches, preserved. . . .272 

Pears, pickled 281 

Pears, preserved 271 

Pineapple, compote of. . 271 
Plums, pickled ........ 282, 

Pumpkin, preserved. . .272. 
Strawberries, pickled.. 281 
Tomatoes, pickled 285,286. 

Tomato Soy 284 

Walnuts, pickled 283, 

Watermelon, pickled.. 283 
Watermelon, preserved. 273 



BEVERAGES. 



Blackberry cordial 293 

Blackberry Wine .... 293 
Burning sugar for coffee. 28g 

Chocolate 290 

Coffee 288 

Coffee, black 28g 

Coffee, drip 288 

Coffee made with cold 

water 289 

Cream Nectar 2go 



Egg Nog 29^ 

Frappe, uncooked, ... .29 r 
Ginger Beer, Australian293 

Kommiss 2i>4 

Punch, Magnolia 292 

Punch, Orange . 292 , 

Raspberry Acid 2gi 

Raspberry Syrup 2gi 

Raspberry Vinegar .... 291 
Tea, iced 290 



Almond. . ?99 

Almond Bar, brown. . .299 

Almond Creams 2g8 

chocolate Drops.. 296, 298 

Cocoanut Creams 298 

Date Creams 2g6, 298 

French Creams, cooked 



CANDY, 

French Creams, uncook- 
ed 297 

Molasses 2g8 

Nougat 297 

Patioche --'299 

Praulines .... 299 

Walnut Creams. . 296, 



INDEX 



, SPANISH DISHES. 

PAGE PAGE 

Ablones 308 Rice 310 

Beans, stewed. . '609 Sauce 305,307 

Cod Fish Stew 309 Steak 307 

Dressing for Fowls ... 306 Stew 306 

Eggs in Tomato sauce. 3 10 Stew with Almond 

Eggs, poached 311 Sauce 307 

Enchiladas 303 Tamales . . 304 

Fritters, Mexican 30'^ Tomatoes 309 

Omelet 3n Tongue 301 

Potatoes, stewed 310 Tripe 307 

MISCELLANEOUS. 



Menus 3X4, 315 

Things Worth Know- 



ing 316 

Weights and Measures3i3 



I; Here is Just What You've 
Been Locking For 

A Little Sewing Machine, at a little price, 
that will do the work of a. largo one. 

Geared 

Send for f ??~^ for high 
speed. 




THE SENORITA 

,' is a useful, practical, durable hand sewing 
J machine, instantly attachable to any table or 
I 1 stand; is easily carried about in the hand or 
I 1 takes up little room in trunk or bag. A 
<* beauty, in nickel and enamel, ornamented in 
{ colors. Ideal for Xmas or birthday gift to 

woman or girl. Price complete, delivered, $5. 

Money returned if not satisfactory. Agents 

Wanted Everywhere. Write for introductory 

terms and exclusive territory. 
^M. CRANE & CO., (Inc.! The R*kery, CUc^IB. 



The Hamlin School 
and Van Ness 
Seminary 



1849 Jackson St., San Francisco 



Boarding and Day School fcr 

Young Ladies and 

Little Girls 



The object of this school is to give thorough and 
well ordered instruction and to prepare those who may 
so desire for college or university work. 

It is located in one of the most beautiful parts of the 
city on high ground, overlooking the bay and the Marin 
county mountains. 

Pupils are admitted at any time. 

The Mid-winter term began Jan. 6th, 1902. 

Circulars sent on application to the Principal, 

Miss SARAH D. HAMLIN, 

18 i9 Jackson St., San Francisco. 



The City Market 



MEATS, FISH AND POULTRY 



FRED. E. McCOLLUM 



Pythian Castle 15 E. Gabilan St. 

Phone flQain 61 




Junket 



Easily and quickly made of sweet 
new milk and one of 

Chr. Hansen's Junket Tablets 



10 Tablets 10 cents, with full directions for prepar- 
ing "Junket Dainties" free with every package. 

Chr, Hansen's Pure Food Colors and Flavors 

Are indispensable for ice cream, confectionery or junket. 
Ask your grocer for Chr Hansen's Pure Food Prepara- 
tions or send us ten cents for ten Junket Tablets and 
write us for descriptive circular. 

Woods, Mailliard & Schmiedell 
307 Sansome Street, San Francisco, Cal. 



RLEX. R. UNDERWOOD, Proprietor 





Monterey, California 



First Class in Every 
Respect. 



Rates from $1.00 to $2.00 
per day. 



Special Inducements to Commercial Travelers 



Table supplied with the best the market affords. 



iur 



Watchmaker and Jeweler 

DIAMONDS. (HATCHES, JEWELRY 

SflliHSiflS, CALi. 

Fine Watch Repairing, Engraving and Diamond Setting. Watch inspector 
for the Southern Pacific R. R. L,ick Observatory time. 



6) HAY'S 
f FACTOR 

1C K OR 
* PAR 

Tel. Red 564 Salinas ' CaL 



M. R. flERRlTT 
Conveyancer and 
Searcher of Records 



WITH 




Good Potato Lands Sugar Beet Lands 

Dairy and Stock Ranches 
Desirable Town Property of all Kinds 

123 MAIN STREET - - SALINAS, CAL. 



Stoves 



Ranges 



AND ALL OF THE 



Latest Novelties 



For Cooking Purposes 
to be found at 



5 Castroville St., SALINAS 
punps AND HILLS 

Plumbing and Gas fitting done in [the most satisfactory 



manner. 



THE GRAND PRIZE 



AT THE 

Paris Exposition of 1900 

was awarded by the International Jury to 



SINGER 



SEWING 



MACHINES 




for superior excellence in design, construction, efficiency 
and for remarkable development and adaptation to every 
stitching process used in either the family or the factory. 
Absolutely the 

HIGHEST AWARD 

for sewing machines 
exhibited at 

Pan-American Exposition 

CONSISTED OF 

TLUO Gold jVIedals 

AWARDED TO 
O 1 IN VJT ll, l\_ THE PAN-AMERICAN 

SEWING MACHINE 

H.'B. KESSLER, 

Salesman and Collector for Monterey and San 
Benito Counties 



SEND FOR FREE 

Sample copy of Domestic Science Monthly. 

Best and only one of the kind. A beautiful full page 
Supplement Picture of California Scenery with Every 
Number. Only 50 ei.tsayear 1257 2 yth Avenue, 
Fruitvale, California. 

WAHRLICH, CORNETTCO., 



Choice Fancy Groceries 

Our stock is always fresh and complete. Prices lower than any house in 
town. We cordially invite the public to call and inspect our stock of not only 
groceries, but 

Hardware, Crockery, Tinware, Etc. 

Premium Books given away with Cash Purchases. 



Some of the Recipes 
in this Book 



WILL UNDOUBTEDLY 



Upset Your Stomach. 

BAKER'S CA5CARA TABLETS will Cure all such 
Stomach Derangements 

ARCHER'S DRUG STORE, 

226 Main St., Salinas, Cal, 



Royal Insurance Company 

OF LIVERPOOL 



ETTA B. LLOYD 
Assets $53,000,000.00 



Resident Agent 
Pacific Grove, Cal. 



THE OLDEST AND, LARGEST 
MANUFACTURERS OF . 




Their Breakfast Cocoa is absolutely pure, 
daliciouc, nutritious, and costs less than one cent 
a cup. 

Their Premium No. 1 Chocolate is the best 
plain chocolate in the market for drinking and also 
for making cake, icing, ice cream, etc. 

Their German Sweet Chocolate is good to 
cat and good to drink ; palatable, nutritious, and 
healthful. 

" Known th world over. . . . Received the 
! indorsements from the medical practi- 
tior.c: . the nurse, and the intelligent housekeeper 
TRADE-MARK. an ^ caterer."- Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette. 

TRADEMARK ON EVERY PACKAGE. 

Ii7 A D "TPI~"1T4 !T> A tSV^lf\ f* /"*/"V D L I 

WALTER BAKER & CO. Ltd. 

DORCHESTER, MASS. 

ESTABLISHED 1780. 





BEAUTIFUL 

MONT 



GROVE 
IEY, CALIFORNIA 



ifornia's great family seaside resort. Within three miles of the far- 
Hotel Del iVSonte with its palatial buildings and 126 acres of beauti- 
ul grounds. Its Climate is Unexcelled. The natural beauties and 
harms of its Pint- juid Cypress Grove*. Its sandy beaches and rocky 



Cali 

famed 



. ^. ,... .^.v^^. . t j ..1CLI (-UI LtlgCJJ Uctll IJC ltllL^-*-i C1U l\J 1 

rates by those who prefer to keep house. For further information apply to 
B. A. KARDLKY, Agent P. I. Co., Pacific Grove, Cal. 



THE DR. DEIMEL 
UNDERWEAR OF 
LINEN-MESH.. 



From Ira D. Sankey 

I wish to say to my friends that I have been wear- 
ing the Dr. Deimel Underwear for the last four years con- 
stantly, and it has been not only a comfort every day 
since I bought it, but it has been the means of prevent- 
ing rue from taking cold, as I was constantly doing when 
I wore flannel or woolen underwear. 

"I wish to recommend the Dr. Deimel Underwear 
as the corning underwear of the world." 

IRA D. SANKEY. 



From Dr, Kellogg. 

"It is not best to wear woolen clothing next the 
body. With woolen underwear the moisture of the skin 
is retained, the surface becomes chilled, and the person 
is far more likely to take cold than if he wore linen, for 
linen takes up the moisture and transmits it to the outer 
air, drying at once. Wool is also irritating to the skin, 
while linen is not." J. H. KELLOGG, 

Surgeon-in-Chief Battle Creek Sanitarium. 

Catalogue and sample pieces of the Dr. Deimel 
Linen-Mesh fabric free for the asking. 

THE DEIMEL LINEN-MESH CO. 

Ill Montgomery Street, San Francisco. 



RUMPORD 

THE WHOliESOJWE 

BAKING POWDER 



is made of Prof. Horsfnrd's phosphatic acid 
powder, a pure bi-carbonatc. and the finest 
starch. It is a strictly pure phosphate pow- 
der, perior to all other baking prepara- 

\cels in bakin si reng'th and health- 



! produ"<>s biscuits, cakes, etc.. that 
freshness 1< ng ir tlian those 

ith oniinary bakia^ ;>o\vd.er. cream 

i 

b restoi /hates, so essential to 

irh, whi< noved from flour in bolt- 

: this account is recommended by 
physicians 

mUK!T?()XS:-rsc iii same way as any 

tier. For IMscuit two traspoonfnls 

(or more if desired, ) to a quart of sifted Hour. 

ckwheat, Grajham, and whole wheat flours 

.vquire moie: ( 1 ake with e/VK s ' oss - ^ n . v <]^an- 

inay b<> used without producing hitter or 

able flavors. 

This powder excels all others in making- 
cake of fine texture without impairing* the 

most di-licate flavors. 



