Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



EL»^r|S-&a^ 



Saitiatt CoUcgt Sitiatir 




aHABr.ES MTNOT 



The Baker's Book 



A Practical Hand Book of the 
Baking Industry in all Countries 



PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED 



Translated, Edited and Published 

by 

Emil Braun 



Vol. II 



XEW YORK 

D. VAX NOSTRA XD COMPANY 

23 Murray and 27 Warren Sts. 

1908. 






JAN 9 '913 



l 



COPYRIGHTED 

BY 

EMIL BRAUN 
1902. 




Baking: in France 

Researches and Translation by Emil Braun 

The number of bakeries in France is estimated at about 80,000. 
Outside of the military and other Government bakeries comparatively 
very little machinery is used and the small baker is still predominant in 
most of the provinces ; in some parts the trade is almost exclusively in his 
hands yet. But in the northern districts near the Belgian frontier the 
workmen in the large industrial centres have 'lately started cooperative 
societies, which frequently set up their own bakery plants. Outside of 
these cooperative bakeries very few can be found in France which pro- 
duce more than 3,000 pounds of bread a day. 

The French bakers as a rule use "sour dough" in all their batches; 
the principle of their bread-baking is based on slow fermentation. The 
Paris bakers attribute the reputation of their Fancy bread, the light, large 
loaves, crisp and white, to the use of extra care and work in refreshing 
ferment and sponge. Organization among French bakers is very poor, 
both masters and journeymen. In some cities Bakers' Syndicates are in 
existence, about 60 in all, with not more than 1,500-1,800 members. The 
central Syndicate is in Paris, which is very wealthy. The members own 
a valuable piece of property at the Quai d'Anjou, where they have a 
bakery with six ovens, a chemical laboratory, a library and also the head- 
quarters for the distribution of their bread-checks. 

The working hours of the French bakers are not controlled by law. 

The wages paid average 60 francs ($12.00) per month and board. Only 

in Paris the bakers are paid weekly, where first-class hands earn about 

^ 45 francs ($9) per week, with a daily allowance of one kilo bread 

(about 2]4 pounds) and 20 centimes for wine. 



THK liAKICK 3 BOOK. 




Th, .\.rlkv.al,n MiUiT. 



If it is iKissibU- for one to imnpinc a coinjiounil, coiiipositf noise com- 
posed of one part gnint, one part hiss, anti any nnnilior of parts (if laliored 
breathings, one may gain a pretty fair impression of a man at work on 
the bread of Paris. 

Anil a wondorfnl ihing is this broad of I'aris, wondcrfnl in its 
extent, its pojndarity, its powers of snstenlation. It is made Imwirn 
the hours of nine in the evening and five in the morning, made for ilie 
greater part by the men from whose deep chests and distended nostrils 
come the savage sountls I heard (be otlier evening as I watcherl ibem 
at work in a typical bakery. 

Let us take a look at the workman and his work. He is stripped 
to the waist; he has nothing on his smooth white skin but a brownish 



THE baker's book. 3II 

coarse cloth, cinctured at the loins and falling in folds on his bare legs. On 
his feet are sandals, on his head nothing but a crop of ebony hair, thickly 
besprinkled with flour dust. _ 

It is a little after nine o'clock in the cool of a late summer evening, 
and yet it is hotter than you care for in this bakery below the streets of 
the city, and it will be hotter still before the day dawns ; and this stripped 
kneader knows it, and is garbed for the temperature, not for the boule- 
vard. 

By eleven o'clock it will be 120 degrees Fahrenheit in the room. 
He is a picturesque figure — you need no stretch of imagination to pro- 
nounce him one of the most picturesque figures you have seen — ^^"ptian 
in type to a marked degree, as he stands at a deep trough or bends down 
into it with monstrous moans and grunts and hisses, and pulls the vast 
mass before him with a fury of a man insane. 

He has mixed up the flour and water and salt earlier in the evening 
and there is nothing else in the big deep trough before him, no milk, no ; 
yeast, no sweetening of any kind ; flour and water make up the bread of ■ 
Paris. I 

From to-day's dough of yesterday he has kept out a patty which he 
has allowed to sour over night, and this he mixes with a mass as the 
water and flour are merged by his swift hands. 

Of course, here and there throughout the city there will be found 
those who mix their bread 
dough by machinery, but you 
may rest quite sure (hat any 
one of the sixteen different 
kinds of bread made In Paris, 
which may come to your table, 
will in all probability be the 
product of the brawn of the 
man at the trough. 

Just now, when the rise in 
the price of wheat on our side 
of the Atlantic is known, and 
tlic general indications of siill 
further stiflfcning of the flour 
and grain market are felt, the 
price of bread here has gone 
up a bit, and. though it was 
only a few sous a loaf it the 



)K 







312 TH£ baker's BOOK. 

outset, all Paris is stirred, and there are many conferences and discus- 
sions over the best way in which to meet the rise. 

Our man at the trough has gotten his yesterday's dough well kneaded 
into the mass now, and, with a swoop of his muscular arms, he dips 
down into the trough, snatches a great handful of the dough between 
his wide stretched fingers, grips it mightily, and, with a peculiar savage 
sound, as though he were some enraged beast tearing its prey limb from 
limb, he pulls out a section of the mass, turns it at once with a vicious 
snarl, throws it down, pushes it into the larger mass, covers it over, 
seizes another great handful and goes through the same program, and 
so he works, like a demon in distress. 

But, when he turns to look at you, there is nothing demoniacal on 
his handsome French face, and he smiles at you as he answers questions, 
quite as though he had not just been making certainly the most diabolical 
noises I ever heard from a sane and sober man. With a short sharp 
knife, he separates the mass into a section, say, large enough to fill a small 
barrel. 

This he puts in one corner of the great trough — a trough perhaps 
eight feet long by three wide at the top and two at the bottom, and 
about two and a half feet deep. This section he puts by itself and covers 
it with a cloth, leaving it ten minutes to rise. Of course, there are cer- 
tain fancy kinds of bread, for instance, the *'Fantaisie," as they call it, 
a more fanciful type of bread which is raised in a different way and 
has some yeast introduced; but the real bread of the city has nothing but 
a bit of its own kind, slightly soured, to help it up in the world. 

All the while our Egyptian mixer has been frantically seizing the 
contents of the trough, his fellow — as they work in pairs — has been at- 
tending to the oven. 

The oven isn't quite such an affair as the one in which your cook 
prepares your daily bread, not like the old-fashioned Dutch oven your 
grandmother used, not like the strange little electric oven which I have 
seen at work in one of the offices away up in the top of the Guaranty 
Loan Building, where a keen-faced man tests, day by day, the flour of 
one of the great series of mills of Minneapolis. 

This French oven is an enormous slit in a wall : that's the nearest I 
I can come to an adequate description of it. It is perhaps two feet wide 
at the opening of the slit, which, immediately at the entrance, broadens 
/ out into a wide shallow cavern, where the bread is baked. It is not 

'i-^ heated from a fire in a furnace below; it has no gas or electric heat; 

[ J- there is no possible contact with the bread and the blaze; in fact, there 

\ \ 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



313 



isn't any fire. This may seem a singular statement to make, but it is 
literally true. There has been a fire, and the inside of the shallow, wide, 
oven is hot to intense heat ; but the fire has all been drawn. 

Long pine wood, about the size of an ordinary piece of cordwood 
in America, has been burning in the oven itself for hours ; not burning 
furiously, for the thrifty baker will use the charcoal that is left or sell it 
to his customers, so that the pine wood just smoulders. But there is 
enough of it to make an intense heat ; and the walls of the oven being 
of stone and brick, and there being no way for the heat to escape, the 
oven is kept hot from one day's end to the other. 

By a simple draught device the gas from the charcoal is allowed 
to pass up the chimney, and by an ingenious system of draughts, the heat 
in the oven may be regulated at will, simply allowing more cold air to 
come in when the heat is loo strong. 

But the baker knows just the heat needed to bake the dough to the 
golden brown of the bread of Paris. If the heat has died down some- 
what and there is need of 
before the nielli's 
oaking begins, the furnace- 
tender puts into Ihc fur- 
nace, not fresh fire, but 
just wood — more of those 




THE BAKERS IIOUK. 



long pine pieces, which 
have been heated to an in- 
tense hotncss, just to the 
point of burning, aiul 


■ 




1 


^r- ' 


r* 




which have retained their 
heat in the warm room. 

They arc so hot you 
cannot bear your hand on 
them, and. on a long wood- 
en psildle, the workman 
puis them back in the oven, 
charged with heat to warm 
up the interior. 

Ily thi^ lime tlie mix- 
er has his dough ready for Dis-nbitinu Room 
the scales. The other 

workman leaves the furnace, steps up to a l)road board now placed over 
one part of the trough and waits the motion of the mixer. 

Dut he doesn't have to wait long, for the mixer is a man of surprising 
swiftness, and with a deft cut of his knife he slices out a handful of the 
dough and flips it on a pair of antique brass scales with tlieir rattling 
chains. On the other side is an iron weight, just the weight the dough 
must be before it is rca<ly for the oven. 

The other man grabs the (|uivering mass of dough, manipulates a 
moment, and, before you have time lo sec what he is really doing, he 
has it in whatever form the batch is to be made into— short, roundish 



TEE BAKERS BOOK. 3I5 

rolls, larger ones and slender, or what not. Deftly he flips it into a long 
wicker basket, lined with coarse cloth, and piles this basket up with others 
on the floor. 

They are about three feet long by three inches deep and perhaps 
six inches wide at the top. These are the baking tins of Paris. When 
the pile of the baskets has grown to the height of a man's head, the oven 
director, so to call him, swings open the door, and with his long wooden 
spade puts the contents of the baskets into the oven. 

There they sit and bake and bake, until the brown loaves come out 
russet, or golden, or just touched with yellow, or even hardly lighter than 
milk, as fancy may say, and done to a turn through every fiber, as tooth- 
some a bread as one needs to eat. The crust is quite thick, sweet to the 
taste after long chewing, and the body of the bread is light and delicate, 
without being doughy in the least. 

And so these Egypto-Gauls keep up their work while Paris sleeps 
-^such part of Paris as indulges in this function — and when the night is 
old and the sky is gray in the East, tired as only men can be tired after 
physical labor the most exacting, they go homeward, while the women in 
their blue dresses are gathering at the bakeries for their stock of the 
product of the night's hard toil. 

These women will carry the bread to your home, if you are so fortun- 
ate as to have a home to go to in Paris, and will leave it at six o'clock 
at your door. You will see them with curious little carts, or bearing the 
bread in baskets, or, perhaps, oftener, carrying it in loose flowing blue 
aprons, with the loaves swinging by their side as they walk. 

Now and again you will meet some early bread-carrier heavily 
laden with great poles of bread, long slender loaves taller than the tallest 
Frenchman in the republic, or, if that is too slight a figure, taller than 
the chief est among all the hated Prussians whom you may see saunter- 
ing, amidst the suppressed sneers of the populace, along the boulevard. 
Alsace and Lorraine are not buried ; they are above ground and intensely 
alive. The bread must all be weighed to such as come to buy at the 
shop overhead, which has opened at, say. half-past five in the morning, 
to dispose of its share of the product of the night's baking. 

The seller of the bread must sell it on the square, so to speak. If 
Tie IS caught cheating, better were it for him. commercially speaking, that 
he had never been born. He throws a loaf on the scales : it does not 
weigh quite enough. He seizes another loaf from the table, guillotines it, 
in the true French style, under a keen knife below the counter's edge, 
adds the caput to the loaf, just enough to make the weight precise, and 



3i6 THE baker's bcxjk. 

the purchaser drops his sous and carries the bread away in his hands. 

l*erhaps some special customer, who appears to be more noteworthy 
in the throng, might be favored with a bit of brown paper about the 
parcel; but that would be a distinction quite out of the ordinary. The 
populace takes its bread and carries it away in its bare hands. 

Speaking of this reminds one that the woman who brings you your 
bread in the morning is sans chapcau. Possibly some of the readers may 
be interested in reading something as to the definite formuhe for mak- 
ing some of the various kinds of bread of the city. The main, all-import- 
ant bread, which makes up such a large amount of the food of the masses 
of the people, is made, speaking in a general way. like that described 
above; but here is a more definite recipe, compiled for me by a Paris 
baker of kmg exj)erience : 

Keep always from the preceding day about two or three kilograms- 
of dough. Six hours before commencing work, replenish the dough, 
called "chef," with two litres of water, with which you make a dough, 
working it for twenty minutes. 

Let it ferment for two hours, and then add to it five litres of water 
and work as before. Then again let it ferment one hour and a half and 
begin working it for the first baking, adding to it twenty litres of water 
and three hundred grams of salt. This will make from fifty to sixty 
loaves of two kilograms each. 

When the (k)Ugh has been thoroughly worked with the arms and 
made very smooth — about fifty minutes* working being necessary — it 
should remiiin at rest ten minutes. Then form it into loaves r>f the re- 
quired style for the night's baking. 

The (lough must be weij^hed. two pounds, two hunrlred grains for a 
loaf c»f two livres (pounds). The <lough. after* being formed into h)aves 
and j)laced in the baskets, called "Uamietons.'' in tiers of six, one above 
the other, should stand near the oven, where the air may circulate around 
it for about two hours before placing in the oven. Thirty-five to forty 
minutes suffices for the baking. 

I'or X'ienna bread, take seven to eight hundred grams of raising — 
which has a basis in hop yeast — to one hundred kilograms of flour. 

With this, add water, forming a dough called "Pouliche." The 
dough should have the consistency of '*Crepes." a kind of pancake. Let 
it rise fifty minutes, then add more water to knead, and salt. The more 
thoroughly the pouliche is kneaded, the lighter will be the bread. The 
baking is similar to that of the regular French bread of the former 
recipe. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 317 

For "Pain de luxe/* pour into a bagnet three litres of tepid water, 
add one hundred grams of yeast, and enough flour to form a pouliche of 
the consistency of the dough of crepes, the pancakes. Let it remain rising 
for several hours, then place this pouliche in a kneading trough, add two 
litres of cold water and salt, and proceed with the kneading as with 
ordinary bread. 

Before putting into the oven, cut the top of the dough with a sharp 
steel knife, to prevent the bread from becoming too much inflated in the 
oven. Brush the loaves over with cool water on taking them from the 
oven. From the dough of this ''pain de luxe'* may be made all the ten 
or twelve kinds of fancy breads — "Tire," "Bouchons/* "Empereurs,** 
"Couronnes," "Vock," sandwiches and so on. 

The fancy breads sell at various prices, according to the location of 
the bakeries in the city, the character of the patronage, and the like ; but 
the bread of Paris proper, the mainstay and staff of the people, sells for 
practically the same price the city over, twenty centimes (four cents) per 
pound. It is sold by the pound universally. Just at present the price is 
fluctuating slightly on account of the general rise in breadstuffs. The 
workman baking in the hot cellar receives, on an average, about eight 
francs a day, $1.60; not a very high wage for such tremendously hard 
work, to be sure, but high for Paris, where a good many men are glad to 
get forty cents a day, and where there are some who are living on less, 
or, rather, trying to live. 

The bread of Paris is not all for the active civilians. There must be 
bread for the soldiers, and bread for the inmates of insane hospitals, and 
for those detained for cause in the dim and gloomy prison of de la Saute, 
and for the unfortunates, or, perhaps, in many cases, the fortunates, who 
are cared for in the great hospitals. 

Let us take the bread-making for those who are in the latter institu- 
tions, and it is practically the same in all. The building is a large one, 
covering nearly a square on the rue Scipion : a building of the thirteenth 
century, once a nobleman's palace, later a convent, now a bread-making 
establishment. And yet it is more than that, for all the flour is ground 
on the premises. 

A part of the institution has been remodeled to the needs of flour 
grinding. The process, I suspect, would make a modern Minneapolis 
miller smile; and yet, primitive as much of it is, I am not so sure but that 
the results are quite as satisfactory, in some ways, considering the ends 
aimed at, as though more modern methods were employed. 

The finished flour comes out excellent in texture and just tinged with 



iM 



f*. 



3i8 THE baker's book. 

yellow. It is the aim of the milling, so the superintendent says, to get 
out of the wheat for the hospital patients the very best that is in it ; so that 
the patients may have the most nutritious food possible. 

The mill, which grinds out 20,000 kilos of fiour a day, say 225 bar- 
rels, is kept busy the entire twenty-four hours of every day in the year, 
lo meet the demand. About fifty per cent of the net product of the 
flour is made into the best bread, and the rest into a second-grade bread. 
Each day about 11,000 pounds of bread are made and distributed to 
the hospitals of the city. The making of the bread is on a large scale; 
yet the methods of the bakers of the bread on which Paris feeds are 
precisely the same here as to quality and kind ; salt and Hour and water 
is the composition from which the fine, long, rich-brown loaves come. 
Bui, to make so much bread in a day, the aid of machinery has been in- 
voked, and. in the long baking room, there are, perhaps, a half dczen 
great ovens capable of holding hundreds of loaves of bread at a baking. 
The mixing is done hy machinery, a 
mimber of iron tubs being set along 
y ^H I ^^Ht^^^l rooms, each holding 

]>trhaps two or three bar- 
rels of dough. 
There are two fin- 
like arms which 
revolve in the 
dough, keeping it 
constantly in mo- 
tion, as the tub 
also moves in the 
opi>ositc direc- 
tion. The baker 
in the small shop 
will tell you that 
good bread can- 
not be made by 
machinery, and the baker in the large rooms of the hospital manufac- 
tory Iflls you iluit he is a fool who says good hruad cannot I>e mixed 
by machinery. IJul you can eat of both types of bread and find them 
excellent : so we may leave the discussion to the experts. 

Here the men work with nothing on but a strip of linen cloth caught 
about the loins, and low san<ln!s on their feet. There is a large room 
adjoining the main baktry where, in a deep stone trough, each baker must 




THE BAKERS BOOK. 319 

Stand every morning before he begins his labors, and be washed from 
head to foot ; something which the inmates of the hospitals of Paris may 
be glad to learn. When the bread has had its finishing touch iii the oven, 
it is carted out to the weighing and cooling room, where it stands in 
vast crates of shelvings, thousands of loaves ready to be taken out to the 
hospitals. It is remarkably uniform in color, texture and size. Every 
morning, as the bread vans begin their journeys to the hospitals, the long 
room is filled, every inch of shelving space being needed to store the 
loaves. Toward noon there is a great thinning out, and by night the 
supply is exhausted. 

The workmen in the municipal bakeries receive from six and one- 
half to seven francs a day, from $1.30 to $1.40. They work eight hours 
to the day. Fifty-eight per cent, of the wheat in the milling is available 
for the flour. 

Thousands of poor people are fed at the public expense with soup 
and bread ; so that the bread of Paris is philanthropic as well as edible. 

And a word as to its edibility. It is a toothsome bread, as it has 
been said, sweet to the taste, forming no paste in the mouth. There is 
no suggestion of doughiness in it, nor is there any over production of 
holes, so to speak. It is light, but not so light that it cheats you or your 
stomach. All the weight must be there, and with the weight must be the 
nutriment, for certainly there is a large element of nutriment in it. The 
inside of the bread is slightly yellowish. There is nothing of the chalky 
whiteness we see at home in some of our bread-stuffs, either in the flour 
or the bread. 

There is an enormous consumption of bread in Paris. In fact for 
many people it forms the main staple of diet. An estimate has been 
made that the consumption of the bread of Paris, the main bread, not 
the less used fancv breads and the still smaller number of cakes and bis- 
cuits and what not, reaches the enormous amount of 3,000,000 pound- 
loaves daily. 

It should be noted, too, that there is a large consumption of rye bread • 
and the ginger bread of the city, made with a sweetening of honey, is one 
of its important institutions. 

There is no more picturesque character in Paris than the flour car- 
rier. His distinctive characteristic is the great wide brimmed hat which 
he wears. It is from two to two and a half feet in width, made of the 
heaviest felt, so heavy, indeed, that it would take a tremendous blow to 
dent it. The crown is round and very thick, so thick that a heavy 
weight may be placed upon it without in the least crushing it upon the 



320 



TH£ BAKERS BOOK. 



scalp. The hats are a marked protection against bruises or injuries from 
the great loads which these men carry. These flour carriers have organ- 
ized themselves into an order, more honorary, I think, than secret, but an 
order into which it is quite difficult to get without due and ample creden- 
tials of standing and efficiency. 

The flour, which comes down into the trough of the mixer in the 
bake-shop by way of a tube and a long cloth pocket, may have been 
ground from continental wheat, or, it may have been ground from wheat 
some of which was raised on one side, some on the other side, of the 
Atlantic. Frequently the American and French wheat, or wheat from 
other continental points, is mixed half and half. Deputy Consul-General 
Bowen finished some statistics as to the amount of cereals imported into 
France from the United States, 
• For the year 1896, there was imported into France from the United 

States 1,680,039 metric quintals of grain and flour, to the value of 20,815,- 
870 francs ($4,163,175.) On this was paid a duty of 4,652.175 
francs, or $930435. Of this amount the far greater portion stayed 
in France, only a very small portion — 166,810 metric quintals, of a value 
of 2,182,042 francs ($436,400) — going to other continental points. The 
indications are that the importations of American wheat into France will 
keep on increasing. 

A quintal is equal to 220.46 pounds. 




iP FuQ^R^SftRROV/.: "^ (p 



THE BAKEK's book. 32 1 



FLOUR USED IN FRANCE. 

As a rule the French bakers use domestic milled flour, made from 
grain grown in their own country. France grows 70 per cent, of its own 
grain on an average ; the other 30 per cent, is imported, principally from 
Russia and America. The Parisian bakers prefer the Hungarian flour 
for their "Fancy" bread and rolls. That means very dry flour, rich in 
gluten. If they find one brand that suits, a contract is frequently made 
for the whole year's supply. The French bakers in New York are doing 
the same thing. The bread specialties illustrated on colored plates III. 
and IV. are: No. i, split, long loaf, called **nuirchands de vin fendu," 
weight 2 kilo, length about i metre, 160-180 mm. broad and 60 mm. 
thick. It is pressed down through centre before set to proof. No. 2, 
rolled long stick, often measuring 1,4 metre (over a yard long), called 
^'mardand de vin roule.*' No 3, round, common loaf, weighing about 2 
kilo. This is the original loaf of French bread, but is now principally 
found in country towns only. Similar to this is the "boulot," almost as 
round as a ball and slashed crosswise. Very strong flour is used for this 
bread. It takes a good steam in the oven. 

No. 4, Ripped Ringbrcad is a specialty of the Champagne province. 

No. 5, Cut Ringbread, popular in the Normandy and in Burgundy. 

No. 6, German or English Bread, not made so much in late years. 
About 10 per cent, potatoes are used in the dough ; is made in different 
shapes. 

No. 7 represents the Kaisersemmel, called **Empereur*s'' or "Na- 
tional." (For formula, see \'ienna bakery.) 

No. 8 (colored plate IV.). **PoIMabrcad," weight 2 kilo, about a half 
yard long and 1-5 metre wide. It was originated from the **boulot** loaf; 
the proper setting of this loaf is the main point. It used to be only a 
luxury bread, but since sold by weight its demand has increased about 
five times over. 

No. 9, split loaf, weight 2 kilo : about J^ metre long ; it is pressed 
down through centre with the arm and laid upside down between cloth 
to prove. Softer flour is used for this bread and it is baked after 2 or 3 
batches have taken off the first heat. Not so much steam is required. 

No. lo-ii. the genuine Parisian dinner sticks or Luxury Bread, made 
in loaves of i and 2 pounds, of 4-5 respectively, J4 metre long. 

No. 12-13, "Flutes,*' Very thin, long sticks; used extensively to 
serve with soup. 



322 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

No. 14 is a small fancy roll called '^Impcratricc" (Empress-semmel), 
same dough as Kaisersemmel. 

No. 15, "Tircboiichans" (corkscrew), the most popular French roll. 
Made up after the style of our Coney Island rolls, long, pointy ; hut 
when they are peeled to go into the oven they are cut across two or three 
times. The oven wants a good Schwadcn (steam). The same dough as 
all the above rolls. 

No. 16, ** Flute crcz'ces" (Borsted flute). The same as the above, 
only cut once lengthwise on one side. 

No. 17, '"Croissants* (Crescents). Made the same as the X'ienna 
Crescents or Kipfel (see X'ienna Baking). 



REGULATION OP BREAD PRICES IN FRANCE. 

Bakers in France are subject to restrictions and regulations un- 
dreamed of in this country. In the fortified towns along the frontier 
they are bound bv law to have a certain stock of flour alwavs on hand in 
case of emergencies. The bakery not only has to be kept clean, but the 
baker has to deposit with the local authorities a certain sum of money as 
a surety for the proper conduct of his business. The law also looks after 
his weights and measures, which circumstance places him in the same 
position as the British baker; but, in addition, the law regulates the 
price at which bread can be sold. Napoleon III. ordered on one occasion 
that a loaf about equal to our quartern should be sold for not more than 
sixpence, and this at a time when we were paying eight pence and nine- 
pence. — Pearson '5 Weekly. 

For many years the bakers in France have been laboring to secure 
the repeal of a law w-hich was passed as a temporary measure in 1791. 
The trade has demanded from the public and from the government that 
liberty should be given to the baking trade to fix the retail price of bread 
in accordance with the price of flour and local necessities. As it is at 
present, the municipal councils have the prerogative of intimating to the 
bakers the price at which they consider the bread ought to be sold, and, 
necessarily, this gives rise to much discontent on the part of the bakers. 
Doubtless, a number of indignant householders, who periodically write 
bitter complaints to the British newspapers, would like to see a similar 
institution in their country. There is, of course, a natural feeling of 
repugnance on the part of tradesmen to the idea of either state or muni- 
cipal interference in the regulation of the profits which they are to derive 
from their labors. It is argued that whilst legislators should not inter- 



THE baker's book. 3^3 

fere with the ordinary courses of business, it is quite within their province 
for them to do so when the articles supplied are absolute necessities of life. 
Were there a monopoly in the supply of bread, there might be some 
reason for the state to step in and declare that it should not be sold above 
a certain figure. Although there is no doubt that the supply of bread is 
necessary, and a very important matter for the wage-earning portions of 
the community, it is safeguarded from any attempted abuse by the free 
competition which enters into the business. There is no doubt as to the 
freedom of it, and many of our bakers will be of the opinion that a little 
less freedom in this direction would be beneficial, and it would prevent 
the matter degenerating into a license. The great price question is one 
which seriously affects all bakers, and, however much they may desire 
that a fair and reasonable profit should be permitted to each worker, 
there are local conditions which disturb this, and which render it often 
impossible to secure an adequate remuneration on the capital invested, 
the labor involved, and the risk incurred. It is in the moments when 
the yield is incommensurate with the expenditure that the idea of a 
paternal control by a wise outside power commends itself to the mind 
which is strained and worried with the imscrupulous and irresponsible 
competition which exists both without and inside the trade. These 
feelings are only temporary, and all bakers will realize that in having the 
liberty of fixing the price at which the manufactured article can be sold, 
they possess a privilege which they would not wantonly resign. It is 
for this privilege that the French bakers are contending, and for which 
they have been working in the legislature for several years. It may be 
interesting to learn that a few weeks ago the official price in Paris was 
based upon the yield of lOO kilos of flour selling at 29.31 francs. The 
expenses of baking are calculated at 12.22 francs, total expenditure, 41.53 
francs. On the assumption that 100 kilos of flour yield 130 kilos oi 
bread, the price per kilo is arrived at, viz., .32 franc, or about 3 pence for 
the two pounds of bread. A kilo weighs about two pounds. — The British 
Baker. 



THE NEW BREAD AT PARIS. 

(The Schweitzer System.) 

Among all the exhibits of bread and bread making at the Paris 
Exposition, the one which interested me most was a system of milling 
and baking combined. This system has a double purpose: (i) To make 
the flour more palatable and more nutritious than that made by the 



324 THE baker's BOOK. 

ordinary roller mill; and (2) to make it immediately before baking, so 
as to secure for the loaf a flour which is absolutely fresh. It is well 
known that all food substances when ground to a fine powder have a 
tendency to become oxidized. As is the case with coffee, which is best 
when freshly roasted and freshly gfound, so it is with cereal flour, which 
is never so aromatic, so palatable or so nutritious as at the moment when 
it is first made. 

The Schweitzer system, in regard to the milling operations, is a 
return to the old system of millstones, with the exception that corrugated 
steel grinders take the place of the millstones of the olden days. These 
grinders are so accurately adjusted as to admit of the making of the finest 
flour, while avoiding actual contact of the two grinding surfaces. The 
simplicity of the apparatus, its cheapness and the ease with which it can 
be installed, commend this system particularly for domestic use and for 
the supply of villages and small communities. Nevertheless, it is capable 
of being operated on an extensive scale, as is demonstrated by the large 
establishment at La Villette, Paris, where more than 100,000 pounds of 
bread are made per day from flour not more than twenty-four hours old. 

This system of milling also retains in the flour many of the nutritive 
elements which the roller system eliminates. The germ and many of the 
gluten cells, especially those situated near the outside of the grain, in the 
aleurone layer, become flattened on passing between the rollers, and 
their particles are not able to j)ass through the bolting cloths; hence they 
do not appear in the flour. For this reason the flour made by the roller 
process is extremely white and very smooth to the toucli ; its whiteness 
being due to the preponderance of starch, and its smoothness to the 
crushing of the starchy particles by the mill rollers. On the other hand, 
the flour produced by the Schweitzer system has a marked yellow tint 
and is granular, because the particles composing it have never been 
crushed, but have been simply separated and torn by the grinding 
surfaces. 

Chemical analyses show that the flour made according to the 
Schweitzer system has more than twice as much phosphatic material as 
that made by the ordinary roller process. The importance of this fact 
in respect of nutrition should not be lost sight of, and we must admit 
that nutrition, not whiteness of color, is the principal object of bread* 
makine. — H. W. Wiley, in the Forum. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 325 

MEDICATED BREAD IN PARIS. 

In Pftris a baker has been advertising " medico-hygienic-peptonised " 
bread, pastry, buns, and muffins for some time as a specialty. This 
concern, in addition to its regular customers, is catering to persons who 
sometimes have not appetite enough to rehsh their food in its ordinary 
state. The medicated bread contains phosphate of fime, iodide of 
calcium, Rola cocoa and guaiana. From seven to ten ounces per day is 
the amount recommended. This action on the part of some of the 
bakers, brings them into direct competition with the druggists and 
chemists, who have been making vigorous objections. The Chamber of 
Parisian Pharmacists have called attention of the police authorities 
to the matter, in the hope that they will cause the practise to be dis- 
continued. The medicated bread, it is said, has a large distribution 
among consumptives in Paris, and that the profits derived from its sale 
are devoted to charitable institutions. 



BREAD HADE OP TORREFIED POTATOES IN FRANCE. 

Mr. L. Eugene Mouline, of Vais-les- Bains, in the Department of 
Ardechc, has invented a plan for drying potatoes by heat. The object 
of the inventor was to diminish the expense of transporting a product 
which, hke the potato, contains 75 per cent, of water. The process of 
Mr. Moutine is thus described in La Nature: — The potatoes are carefully 
washed, and then grated or crushed by means of the apparatus employed 
in making cider. The paste thus produced is afterwards squeezed in a 
press. All the water which it is possible to extract from the paste passes 
into a receiver, in order that from it may be collected, after the water is 
poured off, all the dregs which have been carried into the receiver. 
Finally, the compressed pulp is separated into its component parts or 
divided by a root-cutter, and put in an oven moderately warmed ; there 
it is turned over at short intervals until it is thoroughly dry, when it takes 
on a light yellow tint. The matter must be treated by a temperature 
sufficiently high to impart an agreeable flavor, without a complete trans- 
formation of the starch into dextrin. It is the product of this process, 
very convenient to transport, thai can be kept an indefinite length of 
t'me without spoiling, and is as yet unknown as an article of commerce, 
to which the inventor has given the name of torrefied pulp. If this tor- 
refied ptilp, in a raw state, is useful for fattening domestic animals only, 
it can be used for human food by converting it, by boiling water, into a 
fimrn, {rom which the bits of skin can be eliminated by passing it through 




326 THE baker's BOOK. 

a cullender. You can also grind the pulp, and make of it a light yellow 
flour, which can be bolted like any other flour. Mingled with wheat or 
rye flour, in proportions which may go as high as one-half, out of this 
pulp-flour can be made a bread mixed with potatoes, analogous to ordi- 
nary domestic bread, and very digestible by reason of the partial conver- 
sion of the starch into dextrine. Parmentier, as well as the Chevalier 
Mustel, described a century ago a means of using potatoes in the prepara- 
tion of bread, but their process was everywhere abandoned because it 
produced a sort of lump in the bread. In what respect was this process 
defective? Because the starch of potatoes can be used in the paste of 
bread in a very small proportion only; otherwise it makes the bread 
heavy, without contributing to it nitrogenous elements in sufficient quan- 
tity. Moreover, it takes too much time to pick out the little lumps 
which are found in the dough. Still further, the starch contained in the 
soft part of bread, not having been converted into dextrine, as in the 
crust, is not completely assimilated, because it is changed into glucose by 
the action of the saliva only, and for that purpose mastication is always 
insufficient. For a long time past attempts have been made to extract 
flour from potatoes by drying them, cut into slices, in an oven a little 
cooled, after baking bread. They omitted, however, to brown the 
potatoes, and there has always been too much water to be evaporated. 
The flour of torrefied pulp is naturally less pure than the starch of com- 
merce, since it contains a little parnechyma, but this matter, although 
inert, is considered favorable to digestion on account of its mechanical 
action on the intestines, for the same reason which gives bread its refresh- 
ing quality. From the explanations which have been made it will be 
seen that what distinguishes the flour of torrefied pulp from roasted 
starch or the dextrine of commerce is, first, the mode of fabrication ; and, 
second, the different degree of heat by which the torrefaction is produced. 
Not being intended to replace gum in industrial use, the flour of torrefied 
pulp is less soluble than dextrine, but it is more soluble than the ordinary 
starches made from potatoes, and this it is which constitutes its value by 
giving it a more appetizing flavor. Consequently, the inventor hopes 
that the use of his torrefied pulp and the yellowish flour it produces will 
be found very advantageous from an economic point of view; and that 
there will result therefrom an increase in the cultivation of potatoes suf- 
ficiently great, during years of dearth, to make up for a deficiency in the 
crops of cereals. The results obtained by Mr. Mouline appear the more 
important, because by the new progress made in agriculture, Mr. Amie 
Girard, the celebrated Professor of Chemistry, has grown from 600 to 800 
quintals of potatoes on a hectare of land, and the proprietors do not know 



THE BAKERS BCX)K. 327 

what to do with this mass of roots, since there is in their neighborhood 
neither starch factory nor distillery. — Mark Lane Express. 



BREAD IN THE FRENCH PROVINCES. 

The bakers in the French Provinces, and notably in the country 
districts, complain that the majority of the peasants still continue baking 
at home, and that it is, consequently, very hard indeed for a baker in 
such a district to get a decent living. It is a fact that, whenever it is 
practicable, the French farmer infinitely prefers baking at home, not only 
because he considers that it is much cheaper, but because he has very 
shrewd suspicion that the baker's bread is often adulterated. 



FINE FRENCH BISCUITS. 

The so-called ''Japanese Biscuits" of Paris are very popular. The 
following ingredients are used : J/2 lb. unblanched sweet almonds ; yi lb. 
powdered sugar; ^ lb. butter; 6 ounces chocolate (grated) ; I lb. cake 
flour ; y2 ounce vanilla sugar ; 4 eggs. 

First crush the almonds fine : sift the flour into a bowl, make a bay 
in the centre and put all the other ingredients into it. Last, add the eggs, 
beaten a little, draw in the flour and mix into medium stiflf dough. If too 
stiff, a little sweet cream is added. Roll it out, thickness of sugar-cookies, 
go over the tops crosswise with a ripped rolling pin and cut out with 
medium-sized oval scalloped cutter, wash with yolk of egg (with a pinch 
of salt) and bake in hot oven. 



FRENCH aiNQER NUTS. 

ij4 lbs. flour, ij^ lbs. sifted stale cake, i oz. soda, yi lb. lard, yi lb. 
granulated sugar, i pt. molasses, }i pt. water, J/^ oz. cream tartar, and 
spices. Rub lard into flour and jumble all together into a smooth dough. 
Cut out about 1-3 of an inch thick. Spread them on granulated sugar, 
after which place 30 on each ordinary sheet pan and bake with door closed. 
While hot, jab a hole in the centre of each and drop varied color icings 
on top in center. 



FRENCH MUFFINS. 

4 lbs. roll dough ; }i lbs. butter ; }i lbs. sugar ; 34 pint eggs or 
yolks ; }i pint milk, salt, vanilla sugar. Warm the milk with the butter 
and bake up with the roll dough, and set away for a while to proof. Then 



yti THE ZxKSJk'i Br»lL 

zAA thf: ^n^r, egg% an/I »It, atui bear trp wcIL cnrri ft blisters. Fill into 
^f<^:»v^/I muffin rin^* ^half £all> anrf s^t in proTing cL^set until they have 
v>me pr^/>f , bat nc€ to the top of rings. Bake a nice brown top in a 
iharp oven. 



CR0U5TADE5— (PMty Cases.) 
Into a small bowl ptit fotir ounces of pastry flour (sifted), three 
tgg yoiks, a pinch of salt and three tablespoonfuls olive oil, mix all 
together with a gill and a half of tepid water, add a little beer or a half 
compressed yeast cake dissolved in a little warm water. Mix all well and 
cover with a cloth. Set away in temperature of about eight)- degrees 
Fahrenheit for aljout two hours. Then stir up again. Heat some good, 
pure lard same as for doughnuts; dip the iron mould into it until hot. 
Then dip the mould into the batter not quite to the top : take it out again 
at once and plunge it into the hot frying lard and keep it there until fried 
a golden brown. When done remove the shells from the mold and set 
them upside down on a drainer. Continue in the same way until all 
are fried. 




Fig. loi Case Fryers. 

The mould is generally made of cast brass, two inches high and 
one and a half inches wide, of oval shape and scalloped; and screwed 
onto an iron rod with wooden handle at the end. You might add a pinch 
of nutmeg to the batter. 



PARISIENNE5. 

One lb. sugar, i lb. butter, 12 eggs, >4 pint milk, I oz. soda, 2 
ozs. cream of tartar, little egg color, vanilla sugar, 4>1 lbs. flour. 
Break off in 2-oz. pieces, roll round, flatten a little, wash with egg. dip 
in coarse sugar, lay on slightly greased tins, let stand about a half hour 
and bake in quick oven. 



BRIOCHES— (French Coffee Cake.) 
The finest French coflfeecake is the Brioche. \>r\- rich and very 
tender. The method of preparing them is as follows: 2^4 lbs. flour, i«4 
lb. butter, lyi pint eggs, 3 ounces sugar, flounce salt, 2^ ounces com- 
pressed yeast. 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



Take one-quarter of the flour and set stiff, sponge with the yeast and 
sufficient lukewarm milk ; roll it up into a ball and cut in four pieces, 




which place into a basin and cover with warm water. Set it aside to 
proof. In the meantime rub the butter to a cream, adding gradually the 
^ggs, flour, sugar and salt, and beat until very smooth. Then add the 
sponge and after it has been set aside for several hours beat again and set 
in cool place over night. In the morning fill in scalloped moulds (but- 
tered), roll a small piece into the shape of a tumtp for each cake and stick 
the pointy end into the centre of the large cake, so it will form a head on 
top. After giving the cakes a light proof, bake'in good heat. 



GENUINE BAB AS. 

(Another Delicious French Coffeebread.) 
"Babas" are made from 7 lbs. flour (blended; 1-3 cake flour, 2-3 
bread flour) : 3 ounces compressed yeast, 2 lbs. butter, ij4 lbs. sugar, 25 
eggs, milk, 1 lb. currants, J/J lb. Sultana, Yi lb. stoned large raisins, J4 lb. 
citron, chopped ver^' fine, ^ ounce salt, 3 lemon rinds grattj Set soft 
sponge with one-third of the flour, the yeast and sufficient lukewarm milk. 
When it breaks the first time it is ready. Cream together in the meantime 
the butter and sugar, add the eggs, two at a time, then the salt, lemon 
and the rest of the flour, and gra<lually the sponge. Pf.haps a little more 
milk. Beat all well together and add the fruit. FiU in fancy form-cake 
moulds, well buttered, and set to raise in warm pla.;e. Bake in moderate 
heat. Don't let raise to top of mould. When baked have a syrup ready 
of 3^ pint water, i gill best Jamaica rum, 2 lemon juice, lemon rind and 
stick cinnamon, Yi lb. sugar. Just before serving time, dip the whole 
cake into this syrup for a second, and pour the rest of it onto the plate 
on which the cake is served. 



5AVARIN CAKE. 

The formula for this fine French lunch cake is about the same as 
for "Babas." The forms for all these kind of coffee-cakes have a cone 
in the centre so the cake has a cavity. In Soi'arin this cavity is filled with 
whipped cream before serving. 



>^ 



330 THE BAKERS BOOK. 



The Baking Industry in Austria. 



BAKER ORQANIZATIONS IN AUSTRIA. 

The ordinances that regulate the bakers' trade in Austria are issued 
by a trade corporation which exists by order and under supervision of the 
government, and all bakers are subject to its laws. 

Besides this semi-official board there is an independent organization, 
the "Austria," membership of which is not compulsory. These organiza- 
tions in their entirety are generally acknowledged as good and efficient. 

Under their supervision of trade interests in general they also pro- 
vide for emergencies of a humanitarian nature, as sick and death benefits 
as well as mutual assistance in the form of loan banks, cooperative ware- 
houses for flour and other supplies and the acquisition of machinery 
through mutual guarantee. 

Another branch of their activity provides for the regulation of dis- 
putes arising between employer and employe, and pronounces on the 
vexed questions of apprenticeship. The administration of trade schools 
is also part of their duty. 

The support of this administration is derived from a variety of fees. 
The initiation fee for masters is twenty dollars (forty kronen). An 
annual contribution is levied upon masters, journeymen and apprentices, 
varying in amount from one to eight dollars. These contributions 
and also fines that may be imposed are subject to collection by law, if 
necessary. 

The appointment of officers is effected by election and the person so 
appointed is obliged to accept the office, and is bound by oath to the 
faithful performance of his duties. 

In case of disputes the parties thereto have to submit their grievances 
or justification to the committee in writing, who will then give their 
decision from which the parties may appeal to the public courts within 
eight days, except in cases of sick and death benefits, which are according 
to statute beyond appeal. 

The regulations governing the sick benefit administration are very 
complete and explicit. Besides the details found in all similar insjbitu- 
tions they stipulate a contribution from the masters to not exceed half of 



THE BAKER'S BOOK. 



331 



that of each employe. A journeyman's contribution must not exceed 
three per cent, of the guilder earned. Apprentices do not contribute. 
The sick benefit for men must be not less than one half of their wages; 
that for women not less th^n one third. 

If employes fail to contribute their rates, the amount is deducted 
from their wages and handed over by the masters. 

The sick benefit averages about ninety cents per week, which is 
granted for twenty-six weeks, and half that amount for the following half 
year, with medical aid and medicine free of charge. The death benefit 
is forty dollars. 

For the benefit of convalescents a home has been erected in 
Konigstetten, a forest locality near Vienna, and further relief is granted 
in the form of medicinal baths, as saline, sulphur and mud baths. 

In 1898 ihere were 6.913 men 
and 499 women contributing a to- 
tal of over $80,000, and the treas- 
urer's report shows a very satis- 
factory condition of their financial 
standing. 

The committee is composed of 
twelve members, two-thirds of 
whom arc journeymen and one- 
third masters. 

These details indicate a highly 
laudable condition of things that 
is worthy of emulation on this 
side of the water. 

JOHANN MULLER, OF VIENNA. 

In connection with the above 
article wc are glad to be able lo 
give the portrait of the popular 
president of the bakers' organiza- 
tion, ".Austria." whose president 
he has been for many years. 

Horn in Coburg on the Rhine, 
he went to Vienna early in his youth. Since entering his uncle's bakery, 
he zealously labored for the benefits of his trade as well as for the 
municipal welfare of his adopted city. In recognition of his many serv- 




Jobaaa Malltr. Vianru. Pnaidrni Bakcn' Ofiaalia- 



332 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

ices he was decorated with several orders, and what is more indicative of 
his sterling worth is the fact that he fully enjoys the respect and love of 
his fellow tradesmen as well as that of his fellow townsmen. 



WHAT HADB THE VIENNA BAKERS FAMOUS THE WORLD 

OVER. 

This question can be easily answered with a few words — **The Hun* 
garian Flour/' The fact is not disputed that there is hardly a spot on 
earth, where wheat is grown, which excels the Hungarian in color and 
gluten. In all parts of the world we find progressive bakers adopting the 
name '^Vienna Bakery/* In Europe the bakers have always been anxious 
to get Hungarian flour, at least for their Vienna Loaves and small coffee 
bread, *'lVecken und Kipfel/' Every progressive German journe>'man's 
ambition was and is to this day to travel to ''Vienna' to seek work in one 
of its leading bakeries. **Vienna'* is really the Mecca of the baking 
fraternity of Europe, as much so as Paris is the Mecca of the **Chef de 
Cuisine." 

The question comes natural — ''What gives the Vienna bakery prod* 
ucts their reputation f* 

First, it is the fine flavor ; second, the lightness and sponginess ; thirds 
the rich color, and fourth, the freshness, small batches being baked every 
few hours. 

A great share of the credit for these points can be traced to the 
famous Hungarian flour. However, it requires a special skill and more 
care on part of the baker to bake with the hard, rich Hungarian flour 
than if the common German flour is used. The fermentation must be 
•studied before an otherwise proficient, experienced German baker can 
bake a good ''Vienna Loaf* or "KipfeV* and "Kaisersemmel/' The 
original Vienna process is about like this : 

With one quart lukewarm milk and five to six ounces compressed 
yeast and sufficient Hungarian patent flour set soft sponge. When ripe 
add five pints more of cold milk, the necessary salt (according to the 
weather), and work with sufficient flour into a soft dough; work the 
dough well, cut into small pieces, throw them on top one another and 
repeat this several times to get as much air in your dough as you possibly 
can. The Hungarian flour, rich in gluten, has the tendency of stiffening 
the dough more, after it is mixed, therefore it must be mixed slacker 



THE BAKER^S BOOK. 333 

than ordinary dough. Lard or butter may be added, if desired to make 
the bakestuff richer. One of the characteristics of the Vienna baker is 
small doughs, worked up quick, and frequent small batches. In many 
leading Vienna bakeries and cafes as often as eight times a day trays of 
fresh, crisp and delicious small coffee bread in different shapes (see Col- 
ored Plate ID, Vol. I.) are brought from the bakeshops. This requires 
considerable extra work, but prices are charged accordingly and good 
wages are paid the bakers in these establishments. Like the special work 
required for preparing the ''Vienna Coffee Bread/' particular care is 
required in baking the same. The old Vienna ovens have a solid clay 
hearth and are slanting. The ovens are filled with wood (the front 
part), which is fired and after the ashes are drawn out it is swapped three 
or four times. First one batch of ''KipfeV or some other ''Smalls,*' set 
on pans, are baked off, then follows the "Semmel/' water rolls, etc. 

Not more than three or four bakings are baked in one heat, the oven 
being refired frequently. From this description it can easily be seen to 
what trouble and care the original "Vienna'* baker goes to sustain the 
world-wide reputation of his splendid Hungarian patent flour. The flour 
alone could not produce the fame for the "Vienna Bakery" without the 
efforts and skill of the baker himself. The successful method of the 
Vienna baker may be summarized as follows : 

Well seasoned flour (at least three months' old), plenty yeast, but 
water or milk always added cool, soft doughs, lively fermentation, quick 
making up, a flashy oven, with plenty steam in it. 

With the improved continuous steam patent bake ovens of the 
present time and the perfect transportation facilities to secure the Hun- 
garian patent flour at a nominal cost, we find Vienna bakeries and Vienna 
bread of all varieties in any city throughout Europe, and many bakers 
would not hesitate to challenge the original Vienna bakers for a baking 
contest. 

One successful German baker says: "I have worked in Vienna during 
the eighties and have baked after the Vienna method ever since. The 
only exception is that I make straight dough, use the very strongest 
yeast and bake in continuous baking patent ovens. For the dough I use 
fifty parts Budapest Louisen Hour (Hungarian Patent) and fifty parts 
German wheat flour. I figure that every liter milk makes 5 pounds of 
dough, or about 300 grams more than if I use only German flour. This 
repays for the higher price of the Hungarian flour." 

The percentage of small rolls or semmels produced by the bakers of 
Vienna compared with the large loaves (Laiberl) is very characteristic 



33^ THE baker's book. 

VIENNA RYE BREAD. 

A sponge is set of lo quarts water (82 degrees Fahrenheit), 4 
ounces yeast and 55 pounds rye flour No. i. Let this stand until it drops 
in centre, which should take about 5 hours. Then add to this sponge 7 
gallons water and about 16 pounds more r>'e flour, mix well and set away 
to ferment for 3 hours, after the expiration of that time 55 quarts more 
water are added with about 100 pounds rye flour, to make a dough some- 
what stifTer than at the previous stages. This dough is allowed to stand 
until thoroughly fermented, 1. e,, until it breaks on top and is ready to 
drop. Take 2-3 of this dough and place it in another trough or in the 
dough'kncading machine with 7 gallons water and the necessary quan« 
tum rye flour, salt and caraway (^ to i ounce salt for each quart water). 
Mix all well together into a stiff dough which is now ready. 

The remaining 1-3 of the first dough is also mixed with 65 quarts 
water and 160 pounds rye flour, salt and seed. This batch is set away 
to prove, so it will be ready for moulding after the first dough men- 
tioned above is worked up. But you retain part of this dough again, 1-3, 
and retain for **Sauc/' or leaven for the next dough. (Same as de- 
scribed above.) For the first few days, after starting a new fermen- 
tation or "Saucr," the bread will taste almost too sweet, it will not have 
quite the proper flavor of a genuine rye bread. Therefore, it may be 
recommended to make smaller doughs from the above mentioned quan- 
tity of "Saucr doughs," for instance, in place of pouring 70 quarts 
water to the sponge or Saner, pour only 50 quarts. 



PEINE5 KARTOFFEL BROT (Fine Potato Bread). 

Hoil ijj pounds potatoes and mash them. Mix with i quart 
milk and ij^ ounces yeast and flour to a medium soft sponge. When 
done add I quart milk, i pound lard or part butter, 5 ounces sugar, 2 
ounces salt. 4 egg yolks, Ji pound raisins and after having mixed all 
these ingredients with the sponge make a medium stiff dough with 
suflicient wheat Hour ; a blended flour is best. 

The d(nigh must be given time to ferment again, after it has been 
pushed down the first time, but the loaves should not be given as much 
proof as usual for other bread. 



VIENNA KUQELHUPFS (Form Kuchen). 

I quart milk. 
J* 4 ounces yeast. 

5 ^^iJK >*^^l^s- 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 337 

% pound sugar. 
y^ ounce salt. 
II to 12 ounces butter. 
6 ounces raisins, lemon flavor. 

2^ to 3 pounds No. o flour (Kaisermehl, which is about equal to 
our best Minnesota spring patent.) 

Prepare same as "'Bundkuchen," page 299, Vol. I. 



nOLKEN BROT (Hllk Rye). 

This is another specialty of Vienna bread. Mixture of 80 per cent, 
clear rye flour and 20 per cent, straight spring wheat (common). In 
place of water use all molken (Buttermilk). 

For a dough of 60 quarts take 40 quarts buttermilk to set stiff sponge 
with i}4 pounds compressed yeast and necessary flour, let it rest until it 
settles in the centre. Pour the remaining 20 quarts lukewarm butter- 
milk with 3 pounds salt and mix with flour to make a stiff dough. This 
dough must get a good proof, and after being cut down given another 
rest for about one hour before it is moulded. 



MUERBB WECK (Butter Rolls). 

Sponge and dough prepared like Kaisersemmel. The quantities of 
materials figured for each gallon milk are : 

4 ounces yeast. 

3j4 ounces salt. 

lyi ounces sugar. 

I pound lard. 
J4 pound butter. 

Lard and butter is not to be added until the dough is nearly thor- 
oughly mixed. 



QBRSTBL (Sauerdoush Pastilles). 

If there is no baking to be done for a few days, and therefore no 
fresh Sauerdough to be had, the \''ienna bakers prepare what they call 
a "Gerstel" They take a quantity of the regular **Sauer^' and mix it 
with flour and com flour or fine com meal into stiff paste, and form it 
in small balls, like small marbles. These are dried in the air (but avoid 
exposure to sun). When dry, these ferment balls can be kept for some 
time in a cool place. Whenever wanted for starting a sponge soak a 
few of them in lukewarm water for a few hours, and then proceed as 



338 THE baker's book. 

described in previous formulas, adding flour and freshening up the 
Sauer from time to time. If the bread cracks during baking, it contains 
too much leavening power, or fermentation was carried on too warm. 
In the former case the quantity of "Sauerdough" has to be reduced or 
more water poured for the dough; in the latter case, the water for 
** Sauerdough" and dough must be kept a few degrees cooler. If the 
loaves blister and show holes inside, the dough was evidently too young 
or the "Sauer" too fresh. 

The Vienna bread specialties, as illustrated on colored plate lo, VoL 
I9 are: 

1. Kugelhupf (Turkhead). 

2. Mahustrizl (Poppysced twist). 

3. Salzstangl (Salt sticks). 

4. Muerbes StrizI (Butter twist). 

5. Laiberi (Split Roll). 

6. Heiligen Laiberi (Saints twist). 

7. Schwarzes Hausbrot (Black Family loaf). 

8. Feines Kartoflfelbrot (Fine Potato bread). 

9. Milchbrot (Milk bread). 

ID. Kaiserweckerl (Emperor bun). 

11. Kaisersemmel (Emperor roll). 

12. Gemischtes Brot (Mixed bread). 

13. Kipfel (Crescent roUi. 

14. Brotwecken (Bread roll). 

15. Muerbes Weckerl (Butter roll). 

16. Patent Wecken (Patent roll). 

17. Kaffcehaus Wecken (Coffeehouse roll). 



THE baker's book. 339 



Bohemian Bakeries. 



Bohemia has about 3,000 bakeries. The city of Prague leads with 
295. Outside of this city are very few large or steam bakeries, and 
these are, with few exceptions, controlled and owned by Millers. The 
Master Bakers have an organization among themselves, but keen com- 
petition and jealousy hamper the progress of the organization consider- 
ably. They also stand under the control of the city authorities. During 
the last ten or fifteen years many bakeries have been started in the 
suburbs of cities (about 100 in the vicinity of Prague alone) where rents 
and labor are cheaper. These bakeries bring their bread to the city and' 
sell it cheaper than the city bakers. The average wages paid to young 
bakers and benchhands is 8 florins, for ovenmen and mixers 17 to 18 
florins without board. The custom of boarding the men has been abol- 
ished in nearly all the bakeries. A central organization was started about 
6 years ago. Vigorous protestations have been instituted by this body 
against the Muehlen-Baeckereien (Bakeries run by flour mills). The 
members of the Association in the city of Prague also established a co- 
operative buying centre which has proved very successful. The first 
year 60 per cent, dividends have been paid to the members, but since 
that 20 per cent, of the surplus are added to the reserve fund. 

The bakers in Bohemia, as a rule, bake a very good bread and use 
a mixture of Bohemian and Hungarian flour. The Hungarian flour is 
stronger and makes a larger looking loaf, while the Bohemian flour is 
considered as giving bread a finer flavor. The different brands of flour 
are distinguished by numbers instead of names. They are o. 1,2. 3. One 
special Bohemian fancy bread is called Karasek. It is a salted Semmel 
and is very popular with all classes. The principal point for making 
these delicious Semmels is a good pure compressed yeast and plenty of it. 
To set a sponge of 40 kilograms (about 94 lbs. flour) use about il^ lbs. 
yeast, 4 ounces salt and 3 quarts of milk, the rest water. The sponge 
should stand only about an hour. Then twice the above quantity of flour 
is added and with sufficient water and more salt worked into a medium 
stiff dough. The dough is worked over three times before it is ready to 
mold up into Semmels. 

Before they go into the oven they are washed and well sprinkled with 
salt. Some are also sprinkled with caraway seed. Semmels are baked on 
the stone hearth direct, not on tins. Other similar Bohemian specialties 



340 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

are: Vanocky (stritzeln) Loupacek (butter rolls) and Kavarenske rol- 
liky (coffee house rolls;. 

Very popular are the Kalacs (Kalatsches). See Fig. 12, Plate II. 
This is a rich, round or square coffee k&chen with a filling of either 
stewed poppyseed, apples, prunes, etc.. sweetened. 

The Bohemian bread specialties, illustrated on Colored Plate II, are. 

1. Krudonky (Hospital Huns). 

2. Modrc housky (Ulue Duns). 

3. Duse Seelen (For All Soul's Day). 

4. Kosti ((All Saints* Day). 

5. Mazanecky (Easterbread). 

6. Dalanianky (Dalalam Rolls). 

7. Strajzle (Streusel Kuchen). 

8. 10. Stane rohliky (Salt Sticks). 

9. Precliky (Pretzels). 

11. Krajenc housky hostinske (.Sliced Hotel-rolls), 

12. Xemocky Kolac (German Kollatsche). 

13. Schwarzes Hausbrot (lilack Bread). 

14. P»andury (Militia Rolls). 

15. \'orsusaky (Kipfol). 

16. X'anilkovy suchar ( \'anilla Zwieback), 

17. W-necky (Wreaths). 

18. ( )l)vcejny Kolacek (Common Kuchen). 

19. \'anocky (Twist). 

20. Karlovarskc suchary (Carlsbad Zwieback). 

21. 1 Jarchesy ( ft- wish 1 •read ) . 

22. Karasky (Salted buns). 

23. 24. 25. Kavarenske ruhliky (Coffeehouse rolls). 

26. 30. Loupacek (P.uiter Rolls). 

27. Pap:anak ( Pa^anini Rolls). 

28. 29. 31. Same as 2},. 24. 25. 



ANISE PRETZELS. 



Into one pound fine dry i)astry Hour, rub 6 ounces butter, 2 ounces 
sugar, one lemonrind and some ani^eseed. Mix all well. Make a bay in 
centre into which break 4 i.L:j.rs and mix all tn a stiff dough. Make up 
into small pretzels anrl wreaths, wash with e.u^g, dip in coarse sugar and 
bake on buttered cookie pans. 



AUSTRIA-BOHEMIA (Prague) 




THE BAKERS BOOK. 34I 

BOHEMIAN CHRISTHAS STRITZEL. (Twist or Wreath.) 

To each two pounds flour take 7 ounces sugar, 6 ounces butter, 4j4 
ounces almonds, 1-3 ounce salt, i^ ounces yeast, a pinch of vanilla pow- 
der or cinnamon. Mix like other coffee cake dough, with milk. 



PASCHINQ KRAPFEN. (Buttercakes.) 

Two pounds warm flour. 10 egg yolks, i egg, 6 ounces melted but- 
ter, Ij4 ounces yeast, 3 ounces sugar, lemon and salt to taste. Mix all 
into smooth dough, adding sufficient warm, sweet cream or milk. Place 
the dough on the table, dusted with flour and roll out. Cut out with 
round sugar-cake cutter, not very thick, spread in centre with jam anil 
place another piece of dough same size on top, after rim has been washed. 
Press together around the rim and set away to prove on boards, covered 
with cloth and dusted with flour. When raised bake in hot lard. When 
baked on bottom, turn over. 



BOHEHIAN K0LLAT5CHEN (very fine). 

Cream 4 ounces lard and 5 ounces butter, add 6 yolks, lyi ounces 
dissolved yeast, 4 eggwhites beaten stiff, 2^ ounces sugar, lemonrind, 2 
pounds flour and a little warm milk, salt. Beat the dough well and set 
away to raise. Roll out J^ inch thick, cut in square pieces (perhaps 4 by 
4 inches), place a spoonful of jam or poppysced-cream in centre, pull the 
four corners to the centre and place them on greased pans. Wash with 
eggwash and dust with chopped almonds, and when raised a little bake 
in a quick heat. 

These cakes can also be filled with cheesefilling. 



A MODERN BOHEMIAN BAKERY. 

In the city of Budweis, in Bohemian-Austria, the oldest bakery is that 
of Jan M. Kadlec. It was established in 1850, over half a century ago, 
by the father of the present owner, who succeeded to it in 1882. Am- 
bitious and enterprising, and determined to have an up-to-date bakery 
in every particular and detail, Mr. Kadlec traveled Europe from end to 
end, visiting all the Expositions and Marge bakeries with the puri>ose in 



J43 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



view of adopting the best features in his own establishment. Five years 
ago he began to remodel and rebuild and the results attained are now 
most gratifying. 

Attention was first paid by Mr. Kadlec to the latest hygienic im- 
provements, and the comfort of his men was especially considered. We 
reproduce here one view showing part of the bakeshop proper and 
one of the ovens. The ovens are built after the system of Frank & 
Laube, of Berlin, but with some changes introduced according to Mr. 
Kadlec's own ideas. 




The ovens arc fired from ihc rtar. There are three fires, one on 
each side to give top heat and one in the centre to give bottom heat. 
They are what are known as double-ileckers — one on top of the other. 
One fire is below ground in the foundation and is reached by a spiral 
stairway. 

In the middle of the left side wall of the oven structure is an iron 
proving closet which is very convenient for warming milk or butter, or 
drying zwieback, etc. In the rear wall a large copper boiler of about 
si.xty gallons capacity is built, which furnishes hot water for the shop. 
There is ample provision for ventilation and flues arc provided to carry 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



343 



ofF steam and gas. The oven front and sides are finished in white and 
blue glazed brick, which looks neat and attractive. 

Everything is kept scrupulously clean, the walls are painted and 
decorated and from the floor up, for four and one-half feet the walls are 
finished in porcelain tile, which is easily kept tidy. The moulding tables 
are supported by ornamental iron brackets, which gives no hiding place to 
roaches or other vermin, and the bake troughs are of iron and on rollers. 

The floors are all inclined and have drainage connections so the 
water will run off quickly when the floors are washed. All the work 



w 


^^31 







Bmlmhop of Kadlec Bakery. 

about the shop is systematized. Every man knows his place and no 
time is wasted. Large electric lights brilliantly illuminate the shop at 
night. The sinks arc furnished with hot and cold water faucets of 
modem t>'pe and. as a whole, the bakeshop makes a good impression 
upon a casual visitor. 

Drugs for simple ailments, bandages and the like are always at 
hand in a medicine chest, and the rooms of the joumc>-men are ar- 
ranged with an eye to projwr sanitation. Shower batlis arc provided, 
and in a large garden adorned with flower beds and supplic<l with 
benches, opportunity is given for rest and recreation after work is done. 



THE BAKEKS BOOK. 



Baking: In Hungary. 

Hungary has only about 2,500 regular bakeries, but a great number 
of farmers conduct Homebakeries, principally in the vicinity of Buda- 
pest and other larger towns. They bake large round loaves, and their 




bread, being of good flavor and very nourishing, finds a goo<i sale. 
These farmer bakers come to town once or twice a wctk on market 
days to di.ipose of their bread. They ai.w supply a number of taverns. 
The bake ovens arc the old- fash ion td slylc with clay hearth, and are 
fired with wood. Wheaitlour is used more than rye. and the addition 
of potatoes to the dough is very popular. Sonic of these farm-bakers 
add as much as 30 to 40 per cent, potatoes to each batch. Thev are 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



345 



boiled, peeled and pressed through a fine collander or grated and then 
mixed with the dough. Yeast is used more commonly than sourdough. 
The loaves weigh from i to 6 kilogrammes. 



Trentino (Welshtyrol) has only about one hundred regular bakeries. 

In Trient and Rovereto are several bread factories with modern 
plants, run on the cooperative system. In these two cities a number of 
the bakers are united and do their baking together. Hungarian wheat 
flour is used more extensively than rye. The use of Ferment and Sour- 
dough is more popular than fermentation with yeast. 

The bread specialties of Trient, illustrated above, are : 



I 

2 

3 

4 

5 
6 

7 
8 

9 

ID 
II 
12 



Spaccato (Fine Wheat Semmel). 
Weggen (Common Wheatflour). 
Gipfel (Buttercresccnt). 
Weggen (SpHtloaf). 
Semmel (Kaiser Semmel). 
Cornetta ( Wheatroll ) . 
Gramolone (Common W'hcatloaf); 
Gramolato (Common Water-roll). 
Fiocco (Fine Wheatbun). 
Segala (Ryeloaf). 
Maisbrot ( ( Cornloaf ) . 
Buffeto (Common Restaurant-loaf). 



Pretzel Baking. 

I. FLOUR AXD YEAST. 

To make a good Salt or Lye Pretzel you want dry, old healthy wheat 
flour and fresh, strong compressed yeast. 

2. SPOXGE. 

For sponge take one-third of the (luantity of flour you want to use 
for a batch and mix it with milk and yeast, same stitYness a< tor sotting 
sponge for coffeecake or milkrolls. Skimmed milk may he used. 



30 THE baker's book. 

3- DOUGH. 
When the sponge is ready, you add more milk or water, also lard or 
a piece of butter. Break (his all up well with the sponge before you add 
the flour for the dough. Dough must be mixed very stiff and worked 
well. 

PRETZEL DOUGH. 

Set sponge of i ounce yeast and i gallon warm water or part milk 
with sufficient springwh eat -flour. Let sponge get very old, until it is 
nearly sauer, it can stand lo to is hours. Then add 2 gallons more 
water. 4 to 5 pounds lard, 8 to 9 ounces salt and the necessary flour (use 
blended flour for the dough, half wintcrwheat and half springwheat 
mixed.) Dough must be mixed very stiff. 

Some bakers take a piece of their regular bread dough, for Pretzels ; 
in this case at least ^ pound lard must be added to every 10 pounds of 
bread-dough. Other bakers take regular bread sponge and set it aside 
until it is nearly rotten, and then mix it with the rest of ingredients for 
Pretzeldough. 

4. BREAKING THE DOUGH. 

The dough is then placed onto the hand break, see figure: 




FishiancdDouKh Break. 



.\ piece of dough is placed imder the heavy wooden knife, the board 
being ilustcd occasionally. On one end sits a man, who keeps on turning 
the dough and folding it over toward the middle, until it is all smooth. 
Another man at the handle of the wooden knife keeps on raising and 
pressing down the knife thereby kneading and cutting the dough. Of 
course in modern bakeries where machinery is employed, the pretzel- 
dough is run through the modern dough-break (see machinery) in the 
same manner as Snowflake Dread. 

S. MOULDING OF PRETZELS. 
The dough is then weighed off into pieces or cut with the Roll- 



THE baker's book. 34 7 

dividing machine (see. machinery). The pieces are moulded up round 
first, then into cones and after they have given a fiw minutes rest to 
start proving, they are twisted inio proper pretzel form (see figure 
72, No. 2, page 277, Volume One), Lay them on boards to prove. 

6. COOKING. 

When the pretzels are sufficiently raised and the oven is ready, they 
are first cooked in lyewater. In a pretzel bakery you. find a large iron 
kettle set into a brick frame with a furnace underneath, right close to 
the oven door. The pretzels are dropped into the lyewater, kept at boil- 
ing point. At first, they will sink, but come to the surface after a few 
seconds when they are done and must be removed at once with a strainer. 
They are immediately placed on the peel, sprinkled with salt, and placed 
in the oven. The peel, however, must first be rubbed with some of the 
lye, to prevent the pretzels from sticking to it. In a few minutes they 
will get a nice golden color. 

7. BAKING. 

The oven must have a smooth, soft hearth and a brisk flashheat is 
necessary. The lye soon cools the oven and not much time is to be lost, 
unless you have a continuous baking patent oven. If the pretzels are 
baked on tins or grates, they will have a tendency to be tough and doughy. 
The color of the pretzels is a matter of taste and differs in different 
localities. In Wurttemberg and other provinces of Southern Germany, 
the prevailing color of pretzels is a gold or straw yellow. In Switzerland 
and Austria thev are baked much darker. In Elsass-Lorraine and in the 
Rtiinelands they are fancied still darker, even a maroon color. To 
regulate the shade of color in baking the lye solution must be kept weaker 
or stronger so they will not color too quick in the oven. 

8. MAKING THE LYE. 

The old style of making lye: Take a clean, wooden tub and place 
a linen cloth over the top, press it down in the centre and then nail it fast 
to the top, so it will not slip into the tub. Lay two sticks across the 
top, on top of which set a basket. Line the basket with a nest of straw, 
and then fill it with wood ashes (pine or beech wood is preferable). Then 
boil the necessary water to which you can add some Fernambuk wood 
(redwood), also some onionskins and eggshells. Some bakers add spices 
as well. Pour the boiling water over the ashes and let it filter into the 
tub. 

The very finest lye which gives the pretzels an excellent flavor is 



348 THE baker's book. 

made from grapevine wood ashes. Care must always be taken that no 
coal ashes get mixed in, as they would render the lye useless. Since the 
introduction of the Laugenstein (lyestone) especially prepared for pretzel 
bakers, the home-made lye is almost a thing of the past. There are some 
firms in Germany, for instance, Christian Brommer in Freudenstadt, who 
have gained a world-wide reputation, and ship their Laugenstein to all 
countries. Some bakers in this country use the commercial lye sold in 
cans. The method of using Laugenstein or lye is to pour upon the lye a 
certain quantity of warm water and add for ever>' 12 quarts of water a 
handful of salt, which helps to clarify the solution. Skim off the scum 
carefully, while the solution is boiling. 



Why Does Rye Bread Crack During 

Baking ? 

The above question was asked by a subscriber of the Berliner 
Bdckcrccitiifi^, to which a number of experienced bakers responded 
through the cohimns of the same journal. As this makes very interesting 
reading to any baker, the opinions of these men are herewith given : 

Mr. IIaiuciit: This question is not so easy to answer, there being 
so many reasons for it and so many different conditions to be considered. 
The first rule is to set ''Gnindsaiicr' and ''Vollsancr' (see page 273 Vol. 
I.) cold, not over (k) de,c:recs h'ahrenheit, the temperature of the air and 
the season of the year must be taken in consideration. Next, the piece of 
Grunsauer, which is used as the leaven, should be at least two and a half 
pounds to every batch of 70 to 80 two-pound loaves. Rye flour must 
always be fresh from the mill and kept in a cool place. The Saner must 
be kept young in all stages, and the loaves not peeled too close together 
in the oven. 

2.. Mr. Kirstf.in: To prevent the cracking of the loaves the 
''Saner' must be freshened up three times in the morning, at noon and 
about six P. M., the dough must not be too stiff and the loaves not be 
peeled too close together. 

3. Mr. Tm'M : My opinion is the men are not careful enough with 
the J'oIIsaucr. They set it too cold or too warm, another time too stiff. 
For instance, when I need 3 pails (18 measures) bread, my man should 



THE BAKER S BCX)K. 349 

freshen up a quarter measure only, warm and soft in the morning. 
About two hours later he adds one measure cold water to make a stiff 
Grundsaucr with sufficient flour, of course. Have all the flour banked 
up against this in the trough; it should then spread and blossom up like 
a flower. In the evening add ten or twelve more measures of cool water for 
Vollsaucr, but brake up the Grundsaucr well, before mixing in the flour. 
After another short rest the final dough is made by pouring five more 
measures of warm water, one and a half pounds salt and draw in your 
flour to make a smooth stiff dough. This will make a fine loaf, and will 
not crack. **I have given this formula to every baker who has worked 
for me,'' Mr. Thum says, "and they had never any trouble in getting 
good positions and hold them.'* 

4. Mr. O. S. : The most frequent cause of cracked ryebread is 
the too small a piece of Saucr. Set aside at least two to two and a quarter 
pounds at a batch : freshen it up with a pint of cold water ; about noon- 
time add lyi quarts more cold water and mix with the necessary flour 
into a stiff sponge or Vollsaucr. When ready pour double the amount of 
water and make a stiff dough. 

5. Mr. Witte: The cracking of ryebread happens most frequently 
to bakers which run a small business, say one batch only. Their Saucr 
often gets too old, and is not freshened up often enough. The fennen- 
tation must be kept alive and fresh and sponge as well as dough must 
feel smooth and firm to be health v. If it feels woollv and mushv, the 
loaves will not stand up, and your unsightly bread will be the result. 
What you want to look out for is a cold fresh Saucr, a lukewarm, lively 
dough, plenty salt and thorough mixing. 

6. Mr. Rau: Every year during the months of June, July and 
August we hear complaints about cracking ryebread. Every baker 
should be able to find the cause, if his bread cracks, but the frequent in- 
quiries in the -tradepapers show that a good many bakers do not know 
the cause and are unable to find it. It is generally believed among the 
trade, that as soon as the new crop is in blossom the bread baked from 
old grain will crack, especially rye bread. It is assumed that the old rye 
has not its strength by this time ; the same as old vegetables do not cook 
well any more when the new crop is nearly ripe. That new rye and rye 
flour used as soon as possible after being ground, makes the best bread, 
is an old established fact. 



f. 



350 THE BAKER S BOOK. 



Bread Baking in America. 

PREPARED FOR THE BAKER'S BOOK BY EMIL BRAUN. 

The fundamental principles for bread making are: Good healthy 
yeast and good, sound flour. I will not say good, strong flour, because 
in some kinds of bread too strong a flour is detrimental to good results. 

Yeast, however, is the very first consideration. The proportion of 
the quantity of yeast used is so small compared with the other materials 
used in a bread dough that the cost of the yeast is really of secondary 
consideration, and a baker can ill afford to run much risk tinkering with 
his yeast. There is often no reserve stock or supply of yeast on hand 
in a bakery, to fall back on in case of trouble, and dough requiring a 
certain length of time to ripen, the baker wants to be sure that his 
yeast is all right when he sets his sponge or dough. 

Cleanliness is another fundamental point to be observed in bread 
making. The chemical analysis, age and ripeness of dough and fermen- 
tation generally have been treated very thoroughly in Volume I. While 
I have devoted much space to government experiments, etc., in the first 
volume, I will now give a number of practical, reliable formulas for 
all kinds of bread, rolls and buns, as they are made in this country. 
We may take up the home made or pan bread first. If sponge is set 
the dough is seldom given more than 13^ to 2 hours to rest. It should 
not be allowed to fall. As soon as it shows signs of breaking on the 
top it should be pushed down or cut over and may rest awhile longer. 

For straight or off-hand doughs about the same may be said; doughs 
should always be kept young. Usual time is 4 to 5 hours. 

Dough set with a ferment as a rule can stand much longer; it takes 
from 9 to 12 hours as a rule to ripen; but never should dough be 
allowed to drop and come up again, because the strength is then ex- 
hausted. It must be cut down or taken before it drops. 

Of course with sponge it is different. Sponge is usually allowed to 
drop once, but then it must be watched so it does not drop the second 
time after it came up. 

Prof. Wm. Jago, in his valuable work, "The Science and Art of 
Bread Making," writes about proper time of fermentation : "It has been 
already explained that for the production of the best bread, fermenta- 
tion should be allowed to proceed sufficiently far to soften and mellow 
the gluten, but no further. At stages either earlier or later than this. 



THE baker's book. 351 

the bread will lack both in appearance and flavor. It is therefore neces- 
sary to so regulate fermentation as to stop precisely at this point. Un- 
fortunately no exact means are at present known whereby it can be de- 
termined with precision. The more stable a flour is the longer it requires 
to be fermented before this point is reached, since where flours of 
different qualities are being used the more stable should be used for fer- 
mentation earlier than the others. For in this lies the reason for using 
some flours at the sponge and others at the dough stage. 

"The raising or leavening of bread is usually brought about by 
letting yeast develop in it. These minute plants feed upon sugar in the 
dough and in their growth give off alcohol and carbon dioxid gas, which 
latter, expanding with the heat, forces its way through the dough and 
thus lightens it. In order to give the yeast a better chance to work, the 
dough is usually 'set to rise' for some hours before it is put into the 
oven. There are many methods of growing yeast at home or in the 
bakery, but the compressed yeasts now in the market seem to give equally 
good results with so much less labor that their use, in the United States 
at least, is becoming almost universal. 

The lightness and sweetness of bread depends as much on the way 
in which it is made as on the materials used. The greatest care should 
be used in preparing and baking the dough and in cooling and keeping 
the finished bread. Heavy, badly raised bread is a very dangerous food, 
and unfortunately very common, and probably more indigestion has been 
caused by it than by all other badly cooked foods." 

As compared with most meats and vegetables, bread has practically 
no waste and is very completely digested. It is too poor in protein to be 
fittingly used alone, but when used with due quantities of other foods it 
is invaluable, and well deserves its title of "the staff of life." 

Thus it is not white bread which causes the indigestion so common 
in America, but poor bread. Bakers* bread, prepared, as it is, by expert 
bakers, and under the most favoring circumstances, should therefore, 
and as a matter of fact is, much better than the general run of home made 
bread. It is the bread made in the kitchens that causes the most indiges- 
tion, not the bread made in the bakeshops. Some of the output of the 
latter is indeed poor stuff, but taking the bakeries as a whole, they are 
turning out a high quality of bread. Moreover this quality is constantly 
improving, and we believe that bakers do well to put more emphasis on 
the quality of their bread than on its cheapness. Keep up prices and 
quality — that's the best rule. Educate the consumers to associate good 
price with a good article. 



352 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



) 



A few pointers from Christian Huppmann, foreman in the Boston 
Baking Company, Washington, D. C, who is recognized as one of our 
best breadbakers in the country. He says : "For bread-baking I recom- 
mend the best Minnesota Spring Patents, which I mix with Dakota Hard 
wheat and with winter wheat; 2-3 soft or Minnesota spring patent 
and 1-3 Hard wheat, Kansas or Dak9ta flour and one part winter wheat. 
For instance: 

10 sacks of Gold Medal (Minnesota Patent). 

5 sacks of Garland (hard Dakota Wheat). 

2 sacks of Peerless Patent (best Ohio Winter Wheat). 

**A11 these flours are thoroughly blended and sifted, and make a 
beautiful loaf of bread. I never set any dough very warm, and do not 
believe in forcing doughs in hot proving room. It should be allowed 
to ferment and work by its own strength and the room where the 
dough is raised should not be over 70 to 75 degrees. 

*'Lard being so very high, Cotton Seed Oil is now used very exten- 
sively as a substitute.'* 



On the last colored plate (No. 19) in this volume we show the 
leading American bread varieties. They are: 
I. Twist Loaf. 

Jersey Cream Malt Bread. 

Vienna. 

Small White Mountain. 

Tea Biscuits. 

Soda Biscuits. 

Queen Loaf. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Lunch Bread. 

Corn Muffins. 

Cottage. 

Old Grist Mill Health Bread. 

Milk Rolls. 

Mothers* Best. 

Split Loaf. 

Sugar Buns. 

Of course a good many of these bread varieties are known under 
different names in different localities. 

Although there is considerable *' II earth*' bread (such as Vienna 
and Rye) baked in the larger cities the characteristic American loaf is 



2 

3 
4 

5 
6 

7 
8 

9 
10 

II 

12 

13 
M 

15 
16 



THE baker's book. 353 

the ''Homemade" baked in tins. "Homemade" or "Pan" -bread I judge 
figures up to about 65 to 70 per cent, in larger cities, and 85 to 90 per 
cent in smaller cities and towns. 




Straight Dough Bread. 

NEW ENGLAND OR COTTAQE LOAF. 

(Straight Dough.) 
II quarts water. 
3 quarts milk. 
7 ounces compressed yeast 
10 ounces sugar. 

^*'' couii^rroaf "pin""* """^ i/<^ lb. shortening (good lard preferred). 

14 ounces salt. 

ID lbs. mush (boiled Indian or corn meal). 

About 60 lbs. flour, which is based on a mixture of 3 parts spring 
patent and i part rich winter wheat. 

DIRECTIONS. — The liquid in which yeast is dissolved should have 
a temperature of from 75 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Make dough not too 
stiff and let rest for 4 hours; push down well and let rest for J4 hour, 
when it is ready to mould up. Don't let the dough get too ripe the first 
time, so that it falls by simply pushing your hand into it. It must have 
sufficient resistance yet, that is, has to be cut down. Some bakers cut 
18 to 20 oz. of this dough in 6 or 7 pieces, mould them up like buns, set in 
round pans, and call it Cottage Loaf. 

P. S. — A half pint good Malt Extract can be used in place of the 
sugar. 




QUAKER BREAD. 

15 gallons water (75 to 80 degrees). 

16 to 18 ounces compressed yeast. 
234 to 2J/2 lbs. salt. 

^^*- J'^'T^'**^" I' ^*"* iJ^ lb. lard. 

Bread Double Pan. ^* 

I to Impounds good malt extract. 
Mix into slack dough ; use rather strong mixture of flour, say 3 
parts spring patent, one part winter patent; part Kansas wheat may be 
added. Let dough rest first for 3 to y/z hours. Push down once, let 



354 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

come up again. Don't give too much proof after moulding up. Bake 
in double loaves in tins ; square tins. 




VIENNA BREAD (Straight Dough). 

8 gallons of water, 
i^ lbs. of salt. 

3 lbs. of sugar. 

4 lbs. of lard. 
112 lbs. of spring wheat flour (the 

best). 
}i lbs. of yeast. 
Have your dough from 8o to 84 
degrees Fahrenheit, let lay 4 hours, 
Fig. 108— Vienna Loaf. when it is ready to press down, and cut 

over. Knock down 3 times yet, when it will be ready to work uo into 
loaves. This dough lays as a rule 8 to Syi hours. 1-3 or J4 milk can 
be used. Give medium proof and bake in Vienna Oven. 




RYE BREAD (Straight Dough). 

4 gallons of water. 

i^ lbs. of salt. 

I lb. of potato flour (which should be boiled to a mush in 2 quarts 
of the above amount of water). 

64 lbs. of vour mixed Rvc flour. 

6 ounces of yeast. Temperature, 80 to 84 degrees Fahrenheit after 
made. Let lay 4 hours, knock down for first time, and then 3 more 
times, so it is 8 to 8 J. 2 liours old. Make up as usual and bake in hot 
oven. 

I Tow to mix vour flour for above: 

One sack of pure Xew York or Wisconsin Rye; one sack of Straight 
Patent (dark spring wheat) ; one half sack of best spring wheat patent, 
mix and sift together. 



CREAM BREAD. 

Take as much milk to the mixture as possible. To 18 gallons liquid 
at 85 to 90 (le<:::rees add : 
I J. 2 lbs. yeast. 
3 lbs. 10 oz. to 3 lbs. 12 oz. salt. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



mimim... 



6>5 to 6^ lbs. of lard. 
3 pints good malt extract. 
10 lbs, com flour (dry or mush). 
228 lbs. best Minnesota spring patent flour. 
This dough may be kept somewhat warmer than common pan bread. 
Let dough rise once, until nearly ready to drop, then knock it down and 
let it come once more. Mould up in crimped pans at once and be care- 
ful not giving it full proof. 



QUAKER OR nOTHER'S BREAD (Straight Dousb). 

A very reliable formula from a bakery where 5,000 to 6,000 loaves 
of it are baked every day. 
8 gallons of water, 
t^ lb. of salt. 

3 lbs. of sugar. 

4 lbs. of lard. 

c>8 lbs. of spring wheat flour. 
J4 lb. of yeast. 

Temperature. 80 to 82 Fahrenheit. Let lay 4 hours, knock down, 
work over, let it come up again and take inHTie<iiatcly. In this dough I 
highly recommend a good Malt Extract, which will give the bread a 
better flavor and better color. Cut part of sugar out when Extract is 
used. Give medium proof, bake in not too hot an ovin. 



aoth CENTURY OR QRANDTIA BREAD (Stnlglit Dousfa). 

16 gallons of water. 

4 lbs. of salt. 

8 lbs. of sugar. 
16 lbs. of lard. 



35^ THE baker's book. 

256 lbs. of best spring wheat flour. 
lyi lb. of yeast. 
2 lbs. of malt extract. 

Temperature, 78 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit. This will make a stiff 
and cold dough. Let lay 6 hours then knock down when it will be ready 
the first time; let come up 3 times more. Then roll through brake 
about 8 to 10 times, form into long loaves (box shaped) give medium 
proof (even moulds) and bake in a medium oven. This dough stands 
10 hours and will never fail if made after these directions and you can 
make any kind of shape. 



SPECIAL HALT BREAD. 

The following formula is about the basis or standard for the special 
bread varieties baked by the large wholesale bakeries and extensively 
advertised and pushed under many different names, such as Mother's 
Best, Malt Pepto, Malt Cream, Grandma's Loaf, etc., etc. 
15 gallons of water (at 90 degrees). 
5^4 lbs. corn flour (dry). 
(In some bakeries corn flour is scalded — mush.) 
2)4 lbs. good malt extract. 
3 lbs. salt. 
234 lbs. lard. 
22 ounces compressed yeast. 
180 lbs. blended flour. 

A very good mixture for this kind of bread is obtained from 3 parts 
Minnesota hard spring patent, i part Kansas patent and I part winter 
wheat patent. 

As a rule this particular kind of dough is rushed along and expected 
to be ready for the oven in about 4 to 4j4 hours from time when dough 
is mixed. 

Observe the following rules : Do not add yeast until half the flour 
is mixed in ; add lard when dough is at least half mixed. Work dough 
thoroughly and dry. When well mixed, let the dough mixer run ten 
minutes longer. Now put dough into the trough to raise. Allow the 
dough comparatively little space at first in the trough, pushing the board 
back gradually. In about 3 hours it is generally ready to work over. 
But it wants to be good and ripe, say, if you press on it with your fingers 
it must break around that place. In ^ hour more it is ready to mould up 
into loaves. Give only light proof in tins and bake in medium heat with 
steam in oven. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 357 

A very good mixture for this kind of bread is obtained from 3 parts 
Minnesota hard spring patent, i part Kansas patent and i part winter 
wheat patent. 



The following formulas have been prepared by the author of this 
book for the Malt Diastase Company, and arc reliable : 

HALT BREAD. 

(For large bakeries.) 
This kind of bread is made under many different names : Mother's 
Bread, Malt Pepto, Malt Cream, Mother's Best, etc.: 
20 gallons water (90 degrees). 
7J4 lbs. com flour (dry). 

3 lbs. Standard Malt Extract. 

4 lbs. salt. 
3 lbs. lard. 

30 ounces compressed yeast (Fleischmann's is used as standard 
yeast in the above mixture). 
240 lbs. flour. 

Observe the following rules : Do not add yeast until half the flour 
is mixed in ; add lard when dough is at least half mixed. Work dough 
thoroughly and dry. When well mixed, let the dough mixer run ten 
minutes longer. Now put dough into the trough to raise. Allow the 
dough comparatively little space at first in the trough, pushing the board 
back gradually. In about 3 hours it is generally ready to work over. But 
it wants to be good and ripe, say, if you press on it with your fingers it 
must break around that place. In }i hour more it is ready to mould up 
into loaves. Give only light proof in the tins and bake in medium heat 
with steam in oven. 



VIENNA BREAD. 

Figure to each gallon liquid (1-3 milk, 2-3 water) S 

Ij4 ounces compressed yeast. 

3 ounces salt. 

I to 15^ ounces Standard Malt Extract, according to strength of 
flour; don't add extract to sponge. This is just enough to give this bread 
a nice crust and good flavor and does not interfere with regular fer- 
mentation. Set large sponge, say for a 20-gallon batch, use 11 gallons 
of water to sponge, 9 gallons water and milk to dough; work sponge 
very good. 



358 THE baker's book. 

For Kaiser Semmel and Water Rolls you may use about the same 
as for Vienna bread. 



NEW ENGLAND BREAD. 

3 gallons water. (Straight Dough.) 

I gallon milk. 

9 or lo oz. compressed yeast. 
Yi pint Standard Malt Extract. 

ij^ lb. shortening (good lard preferred). 
14 ounces salt. 

10 lbs. mush (boiled Indian or com meal). 

About 60 lbs. flour, which is based on a mixture of 3 parts spring 
patent and i part rich winter wheat. 

DIRECTIONS.— Mix the Malt Extract with the other liquids, 
which should then have a temperature of from 75 to 80 degrees Fahren- 
heit. Make dough not too stiff and let rest for 4 hours; push down well 
and let rest again for J4 hour, when it is ready to mould up. Don't let 
the dough get too ripe the first time, so that it falls by simply pushing 
your hand into it. It must have sufficient resistance yet, that is, has to be 
cut down. Never use water too hot ; rather warm vour flour in winter 
and chill the liquid used by running through a colander with broken ice 
in hot weather. Malt Extract always helps the yeast along, therefore 
the temperature of water and dough may be kept down a few degrees 
below the usual heat. 



Bread Baked with Fermant or 

Sponge. 

The first factor to be looked after in baking fermented bread is yeast. 
Fermentation has been freely explained in Volume I., but a few formulas 
and suggestions relating to its preparation and use are still in place here. 
The preparation of home-made yeast and ferment varies greatly, and 
almost every baker using such has his own peculiar way of preparing 
it. To make it of any use to anybody else, the whole process of pre- 
paring the dough and baking the loaves has to be explained. However, 
compressed yeast is so reliable nowadays and the system of delivery so 
perfect, that it can be had fresh and be depended on in most any part 
of the country. To bake with ferment or home-made stock yeast requires 
considerable more skill and much more care than if compressed yeast is 
used. 



THE baker's book. 359 

DRY 5T0CK YEAST. 

(From "Perfection in Baking/' by Author of this book.) 
Over two ounces of sweet fresh hops pour seven quarts of boiling 
water. Let it stand a while, then add one more quart of water until all 
the strength seems boiled out of the hops, at which point they com- 
mence to settle down below the surface. Mix enough of this liquid with 
eighteen ounces of bread flour and one-fourth of a pound of com meal, 
one-fourth of a pound of rice flour, two ounces of crushed malt, into a 
smooth paste. Then add the rest of the liquid, and set aside. When 
partly cooled off add three or four handfuls of white sugar and one 
ounce of compressed yeast, or one pint of fresh, ready fermented yeast 
to start it. Set aside, where it will not be disturbed for at least twenty 
hours. Then strain and mix with sufiicient flour into a stiff sponge. 
When well ripened throw out on a bench dusted with com meal and 
roll or press out and cut in small, thick cakes, which are then dried in the 
fresh air, in a shady place. When thoroughly dry, pack away for future 
use. Keep away from heat and dampness. This is now used as mother 
yeast to start fresh ferment or new stock. One ounce to each gallon is 
sufiicient in warm weather; in winter one and one-half ounces may be 
needed. 



FERHENT. 

To one peck of washed potatoes (with skin) add sufficient water 
to cover well. When soft put in wooden yeast tub, and mash w^th three 
pounds flour; gradually add the water left on the potatoes and then 
sufficient more clear water to make five gallons. When cooled to 8o 
degrees add three-fourth pint of old stock yeast or three ounces of com- 
pressed yeast. Set away and let rest undisturbed for about lo or 12 
hours, until it has fallen again. This ferment having the potatoes and 
peels in it you can notice a rim on the side of the tub after the ferment 
has risen and then fallen again. Before using it, strain. If the ferment 
works too lively add less stock yeast or less compressed yeast in making 
the ferment. 



STOCK YEAST. 

Boil 5 ounces of hops in 20 quarts of water for about 20 minutes. 
Have 5 pounds of bread-flour in the yeast tub : pour about 3 quarts of the 
hop liquor on the flour to scald it and stir it up well; after 5 minutes 
strain the rest of the liquid in the tub and when blood warm add i quart 



360 THE baker's book. 

old yeast or one-quarter pound compressed yeast and set it away in medi- 
um warm place, where it must rest undisturbed for 24 hours. In summer 
a little salt may be added. After the above liquid has cooled down to 
about 160 degrees, before adding the yeasty you may add 2 pounds 
crushed malt. 



HALT YEAST RECIPES. 

Some time ago Mr. David Chidlow, Director of the Chidlow Institute 
of Baking and Milling Technology, Chicago, engaged his students in 
a series of culture of bacteria and yeasts. Some yeasts were made up 
according to methods in use by bakers and the results were published in 
the leading bakers' journals. A few of the best of these experiments 
will surely interest the bakers and are therefore republished here. 

No. 1 No. 2 No. 3 

Water 7 gallons. 7 gallons. 7 gallons. 

Hops 10 ounces. 6 ounces. 5 ounces. 

Malt 20 pounds. 12 pounds. 5 pounds. 

Salt 8 ounces. 6 ounces. 4 ounces. 

Bran o ounces. . .0 ounces. 3 ounces. 

The instructions with No. i are to boil the hops with 7 gallons of 
water 20 minutes, cool down the liquid to 165 degrees Fahrenheit, and 
then add the 20 pounds of crushed malt, to be covered up and remain 
covered for three hours; the malt liquid to be then strained and some 
cold water added to the malt to wash it, and then strained into the al- 
ready strained extract. The 8 ounces of salt is then added and the 
whole made up to 7 gallons ; cooled down to 80 degrees Fahrenheit ; then 
stored away with two quarts of previous stock. 

No. 2 recipe had practically the same directions, except that the malt 
liquid was to be cooled down to 156. No. 3, which has bran in its com- 
position, gave instructions to boil the hops and bran, with the water; 
strain and cool down to 165; add the malt; cover up for two hours and 
strain ; add one gallon of hot water to the malt to wash it ; then add the 
salt and make up the total to 7 gallons. 

These instructions have been followed and the yeasts made from 
them have been determined by our regular methods. One of them 
which determines the activity of the yeast is to find the amount of gas 
given off in a certain time of a certain amount of sugar. 

No. I has been, on all occasions of test, the best of the three 
yeasts. No. 2 had too low a temperature for properly mashing the malt» 



THE baker's book. 36I 

and using a temperature of i66 degrees was much more serviceable. The 
yeast at the higher temperature for mashing being fairly equal to that 
of No. I. 

The tests for activity of Nos. i, 2 and 3 showed that under certain 
conditions No. i gave 450, No. 2, 380, and No. 3, 320. All three yeasts 
exercise a radical influence in ripening dough rapidly, and either small 
amotmts of this yeast should be used or a ferment used for making up 
the doughs. A flour that, with an equal strength in compressed yeast, 
could be raised like a sponge to 820 c. c. could only be fermented <mi an 
average of 560 c. c. by these rich malt yeasts, this effect being due to 
the amotmt of yeast required to be used. 



SWEET. NUTTY FLAVOR IN BREAD. 

The loss of or rather lacking of the old-time sweet nutty flavor is 
an endless topic of discussion among American bakers and millers. The 
competition is becoming keener from year to year among the wholesale 
bakers in our larger cities. Each one is trying to improve the flavor of 
his bread or create a special characteristic flavor of his own by the addi- 
tion of malt extract and blending manipulations of different brands of 
flour. The growing popularity of straight doughs with short fermenta- 
tion is really phenomenal. It seems to be the principal aim in making 
the bread from straight dough to preserve the flavor of the flour as much 
as possible. For that reason fermentation is carried on as rapidly as 
possible by using a large proportion of yeast. Malt extract is added to 
stitnulate fermentation and give flavor, and soft doughs are used. But 
on the other hand it appears to the writer that our American bakers, 
while experimenting to improve the flavor of their bread, they are at the 
same time continually at work to reduce the cost of manufacture and some 
substitute cheaper material in the production of bread. To make a larger 
loaf for less money than competitors is the aim of many bakers. How to 
combine this aim with the fine nutty flavor is a hard problem to solve. 
The man who solves it will make a large fortune. 

It is no secret that the bread consumed in this countrj' is not as large 
per capita as it is in other countries. The writer has pointed out time 
and again before, that in his opinion the increase of the bread consumed 
rests with the bakers. We still hold to the opinion that people, rich or 
poor, are willing to pay a cent more for a loaf of bread any time if they 
get a loaf of particularly good flavor. A good, sweet, solid loaf, we 
venture to say, will be appreciated more by the consumers than a heap 
of wind, a large crumbly blown up loaf. Such offers as the "3 loaves for 



362 THE baker's book. 

5 cents" sort are only a temporary advertisement and a bait to draw 
customers ^or other goods to the grocery store selling this bread. It is 
certainly a detriment to the bakers' trade at large, wholesaler and retailer. 
But let the bargain bread go on. it must die out sooner or later. 

We only advise the retailer and the wholesale baker to produce the 
best loaf they possibly can. Use the best of everything. If the yeast costs 
you 5 or 10 cents more a pound if you are convinced you have the best. 
Let us see into how many loaves are the 5 or 10 cents to be divided? 
Probably 150 to 200 loaves. If you can get the best of yeast for less 
money it is well and good, but experimenting to reduce cost of material 
does not pay, unless it is done on a small scale outside of your regular 
batches intended for your regular trade. Don't let them pay for the 
product of your experimenting. If your customers are used to your 
bread and rolls, they like to have it every day alike. If you have suc- 
ceeded in improving the quality and are sure of the results, then only 
venture to introduce such improvement into your regular batch. 

Another question : 

•"Do you use any butter in your bread ?" 

No doubt many will laugh at the question. But never mind them, 
just try it once. Put a piece of butter, good butter, into your bread 
dough and compare the flavor with a loaf from the other batch. "We 
can't afford to use butter in our bread," you may say ; "why we would go 
bankrupt." No such thing. Suppose a retail baker bakes as many as 
five hundred loaves a day, and he uses i^ to 2j/^ pounds of good butter 
in these five hundred loaves, will he hazard his business? We say no. 
The 2^/2 pounds of butter will cost him at the most 45 cents, and he saves 
the same quantity of lard which would cost at present price 30 cents. 
This leaves an increase of cost of butter over lard of 15 cents. Will that 
break any baker — 15 cents increase of cost on 500 loaves? Will the 15 
cents extra cost for butter improve five hundred loaves of bread? Well, 
try it and you will be able to judge for yourself. The more the quality 
of the bread is improved the more bread will be consumed, and with the 
increase of demand for the better bread the bakers are baking, the better 
bread trade will prosper. 



SALT RISING BREAD. 

In the evening scald i pound corn meal with i quart fresh milk, add 
I ounce salt, 3 ounces sugar and let it stand over night. It should be a 
batter like for buckwheat cakes, if too stiff add some cold milk or water. 
Next mominc: add Jj pound lard, i quart warm water, i quart rnilk^ 



THE baker's book. 363 

I ounce saleratus and about 12 pounds strong wheat flour to make a 
medium stiff dough. First add only i pound flour at a time and keep 
beating the dough well. The dough must be kept somewhat softer than 
regular wheat bread dough. After it has been completely mixed, let rest 
only about fifteen minutes, then mould into loaves, set to proof in 
greased tins and bake for about 40 minutes. This dough must be kept 
warm at all stages, and is baked in a hot oven. 



5ALT BREAD (Without Yeast), 

Ij4 pounds washed potatoes are boiled with 3 to 4 quarts water, 
peel and mash them fine, add 3 pints of the potato water, 3 ounces brown 
sugar, 254 ounces salt and Yi pound white com flour or fine com meal 
and let this stand for about 20 minutes. The temperature of this mix- 
ture should be about 85 degrees Fahrenheit. After it has rested the time 
mentioned above, add i quart fresh water at 80 degrees Fahrenheit and 
mix with sufKcient strong Minnesota patent flour into a very soft dough. 
Let this rest in a warm place for 4 to 5 hours, then work it over with 
more flour unti! smooth and spongy. Let prove for one hour more, when 
it should be ready to mould into loaves. Large round tins are best 
adapted for this kind of bread, and loaves pressed flat so they cover the 
pan only about i>i to 2 inches deep. Let them raise for about 40 
minutes in a warm place and bake in medium heat. 



5BLF RAISING BREAD (With Baking Powder). 

5 pounds Minnesota spring patent flour, 5 pounds rich winter wheat 
flour, 8 ounces good baking powder, 3 ounces sug^r and 2 ounces salt 
sifted together two or three times. Rub into this ^ pound rich lard 
and four ounces butter, softened. Mix all with 4J/I to 5 quarts cold milk 
to a medium stiff dough. Mix only light and form into loaves at once, 
place them in greased tins, press even, wash tops with milk and put at 
once into hot oven. When raised and tops commence to take color, shut 
off the heat. 



HOMEHADE BREAD. 

For homemade or New England bread with sponge take : 10 quarts 
water at 80 degrees Fahrenheit for sponge with 4 to 5 ounces com- 
pressed yeast and sufficient flour. Sponge must be kept soft ; let it raise 
the second time, which should not take more than 3 to 3J/2 hours. Then 



364 THE baker's book. 

brake the sponge up well with 5 quarts warm water or part milk, 8 to 9 
ounces salt, ^ potuid lard, i pound sugar or 6 ounces good malt extract 
and finally mix into a medium stiff dough with the necessary flour. Let 
dough raise well; in summer it should take about one and a half hours; 
in winter it may stand two hours; push the dough down once and let 
stand about 20 minutes longer, before moulding. A mixture of 2 barrels 
of strong Minnesota spring patent flour and i barrel good rich winter 
wheat flour is preferable for this bread. 

Keep plenty of soft lard on hand to grease the bench, your hands 
when moulding the loaves and if made in mixer, grease the mixer before 
taking out the dough. 



A GOOD HOnEHADE BREAD. 

Set soft sponge with 6 to 7 ounces compressed yeast, 3 gallons water 
at 85 degrees Fahrenheit and sufficient strong spring patent flour. Let the 
sponge drop once and come up again which should take about 3 to 3J4 

hours. For dough add one gallon milk and 3 quarts 
water (80 degrees Fahrenheit), 14 to 16 ounces salt, 
I pound lard, ij[4 pounds sugar, or 10 ounces good 
malt extract. Make slack dough which should stand 
ii«. no ii..mcmadc about OHC hour and a half; then push down or cut 
Hrca.i Pan. Qy^r and let stand about half hour longer. A mix- 

ture of 2 barrels of strong sj)ring patent and i barrel rich winter wheat 
flour is the best mixture. Sonic bakers add one barrel "straight*' spring 
or Kansas flour. Mould u]) and give good proof in tins, before baking. 




niLK BREAD. 

For sponge take J/i pound compressed yeast, 10 quarts water (76 
degrees Fahrenheit) and the necessary flour. Let it drop once and 

come up again. For dough add 10 quarts milk, 4 
(luarts water at 78 to 80 degrees, 10 to 12 ounces 
salt. .)4 pound lard. 4 to 6 ounces butter, V/t pounds 
sugar and sufficient flour. A mixture of 2 barrels 
Mm III Mill. nrr«.i p,„. J^troiig Minnesota spring patent flour and i barrel 
rith wiiitrr patent v;ivrs good results, but i barrel sound Kansas patent 
nuiy !»«' added to giMul a<lvantage. 

If malt extract is used, take 6 to 8 ounces to above batch and only 
Yi jHUind nugar, or sugar may be left out altogether. 




THE baker's book. 365 

DOilBSTIC BREAD. 

(With ferment.) 

Make sponge with 5 gallons ferment, % pound salt and sufficient 
flour. 

When it falls the first time add 10 quarts water, i pound salt, J4 
pound good malt extract, or iJ4 pounds sugar, 1% pounds lard. 

Take ferment for sponge at 85 degrees ; for the dough at 80 degrees. 
Let dough only come once. 

This dough can stand a strong flour. 



CHEAP HOHEriADB BREAD. 

Set a soft sponge with 2 pails (20 quarts) ferment, % pound salt, 
^ pound sugar and sufficient flour. When it drops (in about 3 hours) 
add I pail water, i pound salt, ij4 to i^ pounds sugar (or ^ pound 
malt extract), 1% to i^ pounds lard. Mix with flour to a medium stiff 
dough. Let prove for one and a half hours. Push it down and give 
it about a half hour more time to prove. Heat the water (ferment) for 
sponge to 85 degrees, for dough at 80 degrees. To make it still cheaper, 
add to the dough 5 pounds scalded rice flour (mush) or corn flour mush. 
6 to 7 ounces compressed yeast with 20 quarts water may be used in 
place of the ferment. 

For the ferment take 5 pounds potatoes boiled soft with a gallon 
water; mash them in the ferment tub with 3 pounds flour and some of 
the potato water, add sufficient water to make 20 quarts in all. When 
cooled to bloodheat add Yz pint stock yeast or 2 ounces compressed 
yeast and stir up well. Set away undisturbed for about 10 hours. When 
it falls, it is ready. 



butter. 



FOR MILK ROLLS AND BUNS. 

Take to the dough some milk, more sugar and lard or a piece of 



POTATO BREAD. 

Twelve pounds of potatoes with skins left on (but washed very 
clean), boil with about 7 quarts of water. There should be about i' 
gallon of water left when the potatoes are soft. Peel them and mash 



366 THE baker's BiX)K. 

very fine, rubbing through collander. Add the potato-water. When 
cooled off to about 80 or 85 degrees Fahrenheit (according to temperature 
of the shop and flour), add 2>^ to 3 ounces compressed yeast, which has 
been dissolved in one pint of tepid water. Pour all into trough and 
set to medium soft sponge with sufficient strong spring patent flour. Beat 
this sponge up well to get plenty of air into it. It should be ready in 
2 to 2y2 hours. Take it young, don't let it fall the second time. Now 
add I gallon more water (at 76 to 78 degrees) 6 to 7 ounces salt, one- 
half pound sugar, 5 or 6 ounces lard, and sufficient strong spring patent 
flour to make into medium stiff dough. Do not add all the flour at 
once, beat up well to get the air into it and add more flour gradually. 
Work dough well through when stiff enough. Then cover over and let 
raise. Push down once and let it come up again for a half hour. Mould 
up and scaling it and let prove for awhile before remoulding into round 
or square loaves ready to put into the pans. Don't give too much proof. 



YANKEE RYE. 

Take 5 quarts from white bread sponge, add 3 quarts water, (90 
degrees Fahrenheit) i pint dark molasses, 3 ounces of salt, about 1-3 
pint good malt extract, about 8 pounds of rye flour and enough soft spring 
wheat flour to make a soft dough. If you have a piece of "sour" left 
from day before (say V2 to ^ pound), add this to the sponge and a few 
pounds of flour and let stand a short time, before you make the dough. 
Mould up in long loaves, and set in long narrow deep tins, 3 inches 
wide on bottom and a little wider on top ,and about 4 inches high, which 
will give a loaf to slice just the right size for sandwiches; grease tins 
thoroughly. If your trade likes the flavor of caraway, you may add a 
handful of carawav seeds to dough. 



COLUHBIA BREAD. 

(Without Yeast.) 
\2 jjotinds patent flour, 1^4 pounds powdered sugar, 3 ounces salt, 
6»4 fitinccs cream tartar, 3 ounces soda, 5 quarts milk, 12 ounces lard. 
I>iAV>Ivr the soda and salt in the milk; rub the lard well into the flour, 
jumble alt(»gether and beat to smoothness, put into box shaped covered 
pan* alKiUt y/j x6 inches, 3Jj high and bake in solid oven. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



367 



A RBUABLE GUIDE. 

The following table was prepared by C. J. Tillford & Son, bakers, for 
the use and convenience of the members of the New York Retail Bakers' 
Association, and shows the number of loaves of bread a barrel of flour 
will make, taking as a basis two hundred and eighty pounds of dough to a 
barrel. 
No. Whole Loaves Weight of Dough in a Loaf. 



per Bbl. 



Pounds. 



373l 
344 
320 

292 
280 
263 
248 

235 
224 

213 
203 

94 
86 

79 
72 

65 
60 

54 
49 
44 
40 

35 

31 

28 

24 
12 

01 

93 
86 

80 

74 
70 



2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 

3 
3 
3 
3 
4 



Ounces. 

12 

13 
14 

15 
o 

I 

2 

3 
4 

5 
6 

7 
8 

9 
10 

1 1 

12 

13 
14 
15 

I 

2 

3 

4 
8 

12 

4 
8 

12 



Left Over. 
Pounds. Ounces 

— 4 

— 8 



I 
I 



I 
I 



2 
I 



9 
o 

15 

7 
14 

2 

o 

5 
8 



M 
10 



9 
10 



8 



8 



368 THE baker's book. 

VIENNA BREAD. 

For Vienna bread always set a large sponge and beat it well; for 
instance, if you want to make a batch of 20 gallons liquid, use 1 1 gallons 
of the sponge and pour the remaining 9 gallons for the dough. Use at 
least half milk. Figure for each gallon liquid ij^ ounces compressed 
yeast, 3 to 3J/2 ounces salt, i to iJ/$ ounces good malt extract may be 
added for each gallon to the dough, just enough to help giving this 
bread a nice crust and better flavor. The sponge is not allowed to drop ; 
it is taken when it breaks. 

Dough is kept young. Push it down, after it is near ready the first 
time, let stand again. 



FRENCH BREAD (Sticks). 

To 200 pounds flour take about 64 quarts water (or water and 
some milk). Set sponge with 40 quarts water, 1%. pounds yeast, no 
|)Ounds flour. The sponge must be watched so it can be taken as soon as 
it shows signs of drop. 

For the dough take the remaining 24 quarts water, 3 pounds salt, 
about 90 pounds flour; the dough must be worked thoroughly. Let it 
come up twice. Water for sponge 80 degrees Fahrenheit; for dough, 
78 degrees. 

Take good Minnesota spring patent flour, or mix 2-3 of this flour 
with 1-3 softer flour. 

This broad is moulded into long sticks, set between cloth and baked 
on the hearth in steam oven. In hotels it is often baked in long tins. 



SNOWFLAKE BREAD. 

Voii have to set a large sponge and let it get very old. Take say 
I hrrr fifths of all the liquid given in formula for sponge and only add 
two (iftliH to dough. Let sponge stand six to seven hours and set it 
ttlioiit the same temperature as the heat in the shop. 

To each gallon of water take two ounces of compressed yeast, three 
oiiiirrii of salt, four ounces of lard, three ounces of sugar. Dough very 
n\\n. Ah Hoon as dough is taken from mixer, pass it through rollers, and 
(hrti mould up at once. 

Thr <lotigh for Snowflake bread must be mixed very stiff and mixed 
WrII, And A dough-mixer for doing this is almost a necessity. Also the 
A{M^i|{r MiUHt be very old, as old as possible, almost on the point of getting 



THE baker's book. 369 

bad. Dough very stiff and run through the rollers 12 to 15 times, getting 
most of the life out of it is one of the rules. 



RIPENESS OP DOUQH. 

Ripe, overripe, unripe, are all intermingling terms. A dough that 
would be overripe for two pound loaves is only ripe for rolls or one that 
would be just ripe enough for very crusty bread, baked in a hot oven, 
would be overripe for very crumby bread; but if this crumby bread 
happened to be put in a cool oven, it would probably develop a bad flavor. 
Therefore, heat of oven and size of loaf are very important items to 
consider in the day's baking. Heat decomposes acids, and the acid of a 
ripe loaf is increased or decreased accordingly by different temperatures 
of oven, and the crust will always be sweeter than the crumb of a ripe 
loaf for that reason. 



AERO BREAD. 

In Melrose, Mass., a bread is made which depends for its distinctive 
character on a patented distilled water. Mr. A. J. Chase, the patentee, 
says concerning it: ''Aero bread is made without milk, shortening or 
anything except Aero Distilled Water, a little salt and somewhat less 
yeast than is generally used. With good flour the best bread ever tasted 
can be made with this pure soft oxygenated water. Bakers here are 
using it in their homes instead of their own. The method of procuring 
the Aero Water is patented, and the bread is protected by Trade Mark. 
I have been some years in perfecting all the details for making this bread, 
and have got it perfect. The Aero Toast is something delicious and appe- 
tizing, so too are the Croutons for soups, beef tea and other uses. Then 
to use up every crumb so that nothing is wasted we dessicate the frag- 
ments and granulate them for puddings or to be eaten with milk as a 
cereal or for dressing for meats or fish. The yeast element is entirely 
eliminated from these three articles. In this state of sweetness they will 
keep in any climate for any length of time." 



BRUNSWICK LOAP. 

(From J as. Y, Watkhis & Son, New York.) 
This makes a nice loaf for lunch or for sandwiches. A rather 
close and rich dough is required. Pans are from 12 to 24 inches long. 



370 THE baker's book. 

2 gallons water (85 degrees Fahrenheit). 
8 ounces salt. 

12 ounces sugar, 
i^ to 2 pounds lard. 
26 pounds mixed flour (half winter wheat, half spring wheat). 

3 to 4 ounces yeast. 

Four ounces malt extract may be added ; all made into smooth doup:!i, 
which must be worked well and thoroughly. Let rest 3J^ to 4 hours, work 
over, let come up again and knock down once more ; in all, dough should 
have about 5^ hours, then scale and mould into loaves, give only medium 
proof and bake in medium heat. 



FRUIT BREAD. 

To each i6-quart pail water use 8 ounces yeast, Ij4. quart molasses, 
8 pounds raisins, 4 pounds currants, ^ pound salt, i pound sugar, Ij4 
pound lard, J/2 ounce spices, some egg color. Set large sponge with 
two-thirds of the water, the yeast and some strong spring patent flour. 
To the dough you can take softer flour; do not make dough very stiff 
and let come up twice. Bake in tins. 



DonesTic bread. 

With Glucose or Glycerine. 

The following formula is given in the M. B. Book of New Orleans: 

I barrel spring wheat patent flour. 
41 quarts liquid. 
12^ pounds cottolene. 
2}i pounds compressed yeast, 
ij^ pounds sugar (granulated). 
^yi pounds glucose. 
1 14 pounds salt. 

6 quarts potato yeast, made without hops. 

Sift the flour into the trough, make a bay in one end. To the glucose* 
add 2 quarts of hot water to dissolve it, add some milk and heat all to 80 
degrees Fahrenheit (in winter higher), dissolve in it the yeast and sugar 
and salt. Pour in trough with the potato yeast and set with enough of 
the flour to soft sponge. Let stand ^ hour, then add more water and 
milk to make in all 41 quarts, mix with the rest of flour and the cottolene 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 3/1 

to dough. Mix in trough or in kneading machine thoroughly — passing 
it through the brake two or three times is ^ great improvement. If you 
have no brake it wants thorough kneading. 

It is best to try small batches first, to learn about proving it right, 
as this must be learned by observation. In place of glucose i pound 
melted glycerine can be added slowly, during mixing of dough. 



SNOW FLAKE BREAD. 

You have to set a large sponge and let it get very old. Take say 
three-fifths of all the liquid given in formula for sponge and only add 
two-fifths to dough. Let sponge stand six to seven hours and set it about 
the same temperature as the heat in the shop. 

To each gallon of water take two ounces of compressed yeast. 
three ounces of salt, four ounces of lard, three ounces of sugar. Dough 
ver>- stiff. As soon as dough is taken from mixer, pass it twelve to four- 
teen times through rollers, and then mould up at once. 



QUICK LOAF. 

Dissolve 2y2 pounds yeast in 2 gallons of water at 90 degrees 
Fahrenheit, add about 2j/^ founds of flour and J4 pound of sugar. Leave 
stand about 15 minutes just for yeast to get a start. Take 12 gallons of 
water of about 105 to no degrees Fahrenheit (according to temperature 
of flour), when dough is finished it should be 87 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Salt 4 pounds, let stand only i hour, then cut back, giving another half 
hour rest ; also give good proof after moulding. The whole process, 
from the setting yeast to the baking, is done in about 4 hours. 



QLUTEN OR WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Twelve quarts water (warm), 5 ounces compressed yeast, i ounce 
salt, I quart molasses; mix with sufficient gluten or entire wheat flour 
to soft dough and give not so much proof as for white bread. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD (5trais:ht Dough). 

Mix 2 pounds cornmeal, one pound ryemeal, one pound graham 
flour, one pound wheat flour Y^ ounce salt. Dissolve one ounce com- 
pressed yeast in two quarts of water or milk and mix all. If too stiff, add 



J72 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

little water, a half to one pint molasses, make dough about the consist- 
ency of corn-muffins. Put in well greased, deep tins with cover; do not 
fill much over half full. Set into a pan containing water to a depth of 
one and a half inches so thev will steam from bottom. Bake three or 
four hours in medium heat, when the water should be all evaporated. 
You can take yeast a little short and' use buttermilk or sour milk instead 
of fresh milk or water for mixing and add a heaping teaspoonful of good 
baking soda to it. (See Figure 8, Colored Plate 19.) 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD (Sponge). 

Fourteen quarts water (lukewarm) lYz quarts of stock yeast or 
3 to 4 ounces compressed yeast set to medium stiff sponge with sufficient 
rye and yellow cornmeal. When it cracks on top add J/2 gallon water 
(90 degrees Fahrenheit), 3 quarts molasses, 5 ounces soda and 5 ounces 
salt. Use 4 pounds cornmeal. 4 pounds graham flour, 2 pounds coarse 
rye and sufficient wheat flour to make soft dough. Scale off at once into 
the greased tins. Let stand about Yz hour and bake in cool oven. 

Boston Bread can also be made from prepared flour, already mixed 
with baking powder, using water or buttermilk and molasses to taste. I 
prefer to take very little, but the best, molasses and add some burnt sugar 
color to darken. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

I iK)und graham flour. 2 pounds rye flour. 3 pounds yellow corn 
meal. 3 pints light colored iiiolassos. 3 pints water. 2-3 ounces soda, i 
ounce cream tartar, i ounce compressed yeast, salt. Will make about 12 
small loaves. Bake about i hour in medium oven. 



QRAHAH BREAD (Without Spons:e). 

J4 pound yeast. 7 gallons lukewarm water, 6 pints dark molasses, 
10 ounces salt, 15 iK)unds graham flour and sufficient wheat flour to 
make medium soft dough. Let stand over night (6 to 8 hours). Scale 
oflT into loaves in the morning without working the dough much, and 
mould into loaves. Have tins greased well. Give not too much proof, 
Imkr in moilimn he:*.t 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 373 

QRAHAM BREAD. 

3 quarts water. 
V/t pints molasses. 
3^ ounces yeast. 

2 ounces salt. 

4 pounds graham flour. 
6 pounds bread flour. 

Rub the yeast with i pound of the flour and I quart of the warm 
water together in a small bowl and let rest for 15 or 20 minutes. Then 
add all the water, a small scoop full of the flour and let it raise in warm 
place for one hour, add salt and molasses and mix with the rest of flour 
to soft dough, which should stand 5 to 6 hours. 



ORAHAM BREAD (With Sponge). 

To 2 quarts of sponge from white bread add i quart warm water, 
Yz pint dark molasses, 2j^ ounces salt and sufficient wheat flour to make 
soft dough. Let stand about 2 hours. Mould up and bake as above. 



VIENNA BREAD FOR SHALL BAKERS* TRADE (England). 

Two ounces yeast, i quart water, i quart milk, i ounce sugar, I 
ounce salt, and 9 pounds finest Hungarian flour. Put in a sponge, with 
the milk and water at 90 degrees Fahrenheit; yeast, sugar and flour to 
make a batter sponge. Let this rise and fall, and then make the dough. 
Powder the salt on to the sponge, and mix with enough flour to make 
a slight dough. It will be ready for molding in an hour. When the 
loaves or rolls are molded, put them away out of the draught. Make 
the oven hot, but not rash or scorching, as that will not only color the 
rolls too freely, but probably destroy more steam than there is to spare; 
nor must the oven be a cold dead heat, because then there will not be 
enough disengaged heat to catch and rapidly set fast the wet surface 
with which the steam has covered the dough. While the rolls are prov- 
ing, and the oven is heating, the steam also must be **getting up'' in the 
boiler. Arrange to have the oven, steam, and rolls all ready at the 
same time ; then wash the rolls over with a thin paste or wash by scalding 
a little flour with boiling water ; turn about 15 to 20 i>ounds of the steam 
into the oven, and then, with the steam still going into the oven, cut the 
rolls and put them quickly in. and shut the ovon-door. closing every 



374 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

aperture that would let the steam out. The rolls must be put into the 
steam, because, if the surface be allowed to get dry in the oven, it will 
be next to impossible for any amount of steam to cause a polish. There 
may be plenty of steam available, in which case shut it off after the 
bread has been in the oven a few minutes. — Bakers' Times, 



A QOOD NEW ENGLAND LOAF (Straight Doush). 

The following reliable formula is used daily in a large retail bakery 
with good success. 

11 quarts water. 
3 quarts milk. 

7 ounces Fleischmann's yeast. 

V/y pounds lard. 

I pound salt. 

12 pounds mush (scalded Indian meal). 
52 pounds flour. 

For mixture they use 3 parts Minnesota spring patent flour , and I 
part winter wheat flour. 

When all the materials but flour are mixed thev should have a tem- 
perature of 75 degrees Fahrenheit. Of course, if the flour is very cold a 
higher temperature is necessary. This dough should make 80 loaves to 
be scaled at i pound and 2y2 ounces each. 

The same baker gives the following points to be observed : 

Set all doughs cool, but use ])lenty of yeast. Keep dough young, 
push down once or twice before it is ready. Keep to an even tempera- 
ture of about 85 degrees in the doughing room. Dough should never 
be so ripe that it falls when you push your hand into it. My parole is: 
Cool water means health for dough ; warm or hot water, poison and 
destruction for dough. 



BRAN WATER IMPROVES BREAD. 

An experienced baker made the following statement: 

"If you soak a quantity of bran in the water to be used for the 

bread dough you will realize from 7 to 8 per cent, more bread from each 

batch of dough. The bran contains some gluten, which is dissolved 

during the soaking and is introduced into the dough with the water. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 375 

t 

Although the loaves may not be quite as white as the regular bread it 
is more wholesome and has a better flavor. 



TO QIVE VIENNA AND RYE BREAD A QLOSS. 

Cracknel biscuits are dipped in boiling water before baking which 
gives them a gloss. If dumplings would be put into a bakeoven, after 
being boiled, they would also be glazed, i. e., have a fine, rich, glossy 
crust. Lye or salt pretzels are also boiled in a lye solution before they 
go into the oven, because a rich, glossy crust is desired. The boiling 
water, acting upon the surface of the dough, converts the starchy 
matter at the surface of the loaf first into *'dextrine," a gummy sub- 
stance. Dextrine is produced by the action of heat upon the starch. But 
first a hot water or steam bath is necessary to moisten or soften the 
surface. The heat of the oven will then dry or bake it. and leave a gloss 
on the loaf as well. It is even customary to wash the loaves first before 
peeling in the oven. 

Mr. John Blandy, of London, explains the process thoroughly. He 
writes : 

"When the loaves or rolls are moulded, put them away out of the 
draught. Make the oven hot, but not rash or scorching, as that will not 
only color the rolls too freely, but probably destroy more steam than 
there is to spare ; nor must the oven be a cold dead heat, because then 
there will not be enough disengaged heat to catch and rapidly set fast 
the wet surface with which the steam has covered the dough. While the 
rolls are proving, and the oven is heating, the steam also must be "getting 
up'* in the boiler. Any quantity will do : as a rule the more the better — 
from 40 pounds ; not dry steam, or hot vapor, but wet steam newly 
generated from a good body of water, the boiler being half or two-thirds 
full. Arrange to have the oven, steam, and rolls, all ready at the same 
time: then wash the rolls over wnth a thin paste or wash, by scalding a 
little flour with boiling water; turn about 15 to 20 ])ounds of the steam 
into the oven, and then, with the steam still going into the oven, cut the 
rolls and put them quickly in, and shut the oven-door, closing every aper- 
ture that would let the steam out. Note particularly. — Tlie rolls must be. 
put into the steam, because, if the surface be allowed to get dry in the 
oven, it will be next to impossible for any amount of steam to cause a 
polish. There may be plenty of steam available, in which case shut it 
oflF after the bread has been in the oven a few minutes." 



376 THE baker's book. 

WHOLE HEAL BREAD. 

Bread made from meal with addition of the bran and germ of the 
wheat in place of using white flour has been extensively advertised in 
late years. However, its consumption is rather limited. The greatest ob- 
jection to whole meal arises from its being more liable to getting heated 
and becoming musty on account of the presence of the germ. The germ 
is principally composed of soluble albuminoides, which act on the starch 
in the flour. Although the whole meal contains all the nutrition of the 
wheat kernel it must not be allowed to get old after being ground. The 
cerealin contained in both bran and germ acts upon and converts the 
starch in the flour into dextrine during the process of breadmaking, and 
the albuminoides are softened to a great extent, which causes this kind of 
bread to become soggy and heavy very easily. As a rule it requires a 
longer time to bake it thoroughly. A larger percentage of yeast is neces- 
sary, as fermentation must be carried on at a lower temperature than 
usual and the loaves should not be raised too much before baking. 



BREAD FROn BANANAS. 

A common food article in the West Indies is a flour made from the 
bread fruit. The fruit is cut into *'pegs," or strips, and dried in the sun, 
then ground to powder in a mortar and sifted. This flour makes a very 
convenient and highly nutritious addition to the hamper of provisions the 
negro usually takes with him when traveling far from his home, and 
he well knows the art of making it into a variety of appetizing dishes. 
The plantain is sometimes treated in the same way, as well as the banana, 
which gives a sweeter and richer flour than either the plantain or bread 
fruit. It is estimated that the banana has forty-four time more nutritive 
value than the potato, and is twenty-five times more nutritious than good 
white bread. This fact has induced the French Government to send a 
commission to the United States and Central America with a view of 
investigating the adaptability of the banana plant for extensive agricul- 
tural operations in the Congo in the production of cheap food for the 
working classes in Belgium. Should this commission report favorably 
on the subject of their investigation, a new and vast industry will be 
established, which interests the United States very closely, from the fact 
of Porto Rico and Cuba possessing hundreds of thousands of acres on 
which the finest varieties of the banana can be successfully grown. It is 
highly probable that another industry will grow up from the association 



THE baker's book. 377 

of this country with the West Indies. The banana in its candied form 
is a delicious sweetmeat. Many people prefer it infinitely to dried figs. 
It is simply made. The ripe banana is cut into thin slices and laid in the 
tropical sun until it becomes a sweet, semi-gelatinous mass. The slices 
are packed in boxes with a dusting of fine sugar between each layer, and 
are ready for shipment. The process, though not elaborate, requires care 
and watchfulness, without which the product may be inferior and un- 
attractive. But if the curing and packing are properly done, and the 
cured fruit is put on the American market, it is not improbable that it 
will soon take the place of the fig for dessert purposes. — Fruittnan's 
Guide, 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

i^ gallons milk. | 

2 quarts water. t\ 
12 ounces compressed yeast. 

20 eggs. 3 to 4 oz. salt. 
iy2 pounds butter. 
^ ix)und lard. 
I pound sugar. 

3 ounces malt extract may be used and only half the sugar. 
Little egg coloring. 
Set dough warm. This dough can also be used for buns. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS (Quick Dou^h). 

Five quirts milk, 3 quarts water (about 85 degrees Fahrenheit), 10 
to 12 ounces compressed yeast, i quart eggs, I pound butter, ij4 pounds 
lard ; ^ to I pound sugar, 2 ounces salt, egg color. Some bakers make 
Parkerhouse rolls considerably cheaper by omitting butter and eggs and 
using more egg-coloring. Give them some shape as in above men- 
tioned formula. 

If you want to take bread sponge for roll dough, use to 10 pounds 
of the sponge, when ready. 2 to 3 quarts of milk or part water and allow 
}i pound sugar, i pound lard (or part butter), 2 to 2|^ ounces salt, 
break up sponge well and let dough not get too old. 

Currant buns, cinnamon buns and different kinds of buns may be 
made of this dough by giving different shapes and adding different 
spices. 



378 THE BAKERS BCX)K. 

SPONQE FOR BREAD, BUNS AND RUSKS. 

Set a stiff sponge of i pound compressed yeast and 9 gallons of 
warm water (85 degrees Fahrenheit), let stand 3 to 5 hours; until it falls 
the first time. If all the sponge is to be used for small stuff, part milk 
can be used. 

For bread dough add 10 quarts more water (85 to 90 degrees). Ij4 
pounds salt, 1J/2 to 2 pounds sugar, shortening to suit taste and sufficient 
strong flour. Let dough come twice. 



BUNS AND RU5K5. 



Take for each 10 pounds of the above sponge when ready i pound 
sugar, 14 ounces shortening, salt and flour. Work dough well ; some 
warm milk may be added. 



ALBANY ROLLS. 



To each 20 pounds of above sponge take i pound sugar, i pound 
lard, salt and mix with flour enough to make smooth dough. 



GERHAN BUTTER ROLLS 

See page 276, Volume I. 



LUNCH BUNS. 



To 10 pounds of bread sponge, add 3 ])ints of milk, i pound sugfar, 
I pound lard (or part butter) or other shortening. ij4 ounces salt, some 
egg-coloring may Ijc added. Tliese buns are either washed with egg- 
wash or with butter and dipped in coarse sugar, after they arc molded 
up and then set on large tins to raise, or they are glazed with water-icing 
as soon as baked. 



5UQAR BUNS. 



Set soft sponge with one gallon water (80 degrees Fahrenheit) or 
part milk, 6 ounces com])ressed yeast and sufficient flour; flour should 
be blemled. using one-half strong spring, patent and one or two kinds 
of cake flour (winter wheat). Beat sponge well. For dough add 3 to 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 379 

4 pints more milk, ^ pound butter and lard. iJ^S pounds sugar, lemon, 
color, mace, 2 ounces salt. Work dough well, with part of the flour, 
before you add all the shortening. Hold dough soft and push back 
twice. Proceed in usual way. 



MILK ROLLS (Without Sponge). 

Set stiff dough late in the evening of 4 ounces compressed yeast with 

4 quarts milk and 5 quarts water (65 to 70 degrees), 3 to 4 ounces salt, 

5 ounces sugar, ^ pound butter and lard mixed (or all lard), and suffi- 
cient flour. In the morning cut out the dough, break off in pieces, 
mould up same as for buns, let spring a little ; then press down in centre 
with thin rolling pin, wash with melted butter or lard and turn one-half 
over, same as for Parkerhouse rolls. Set on greased tins and raise in 
proofbox. They may be washed with milk wash, before going into the 
oven. Oven must be hot, so they do not bake too slow. If malt extract 
is used, take for above quantity 3 ounces and omit sugar. 



NEWPORT ROLLS. 

Some people like baking powder biscuits, but would like more crust 
on them. The following recipe will prove a good seller for such trade: 
Three and a quarter pounds of blended flour and three ounces of bak- 
ing powder sifted together; rub dry into the flour half a pound of butter 
(or good hard lard), one ounce of salt; mix with one quart of milk into 
a smooth dough ; if too stiff add a little more milk. Then roll out one- 
half inch thick, cut wMth large scolloped cookie cutters, wash with melted 
butter on the edge, double over like turnovers, press slightly together, 
wash with egg wash and bake to golden brown in good heat (400 degrees. 
Fahrenheit thermometer). 



QRAHAH GEHS. 

Bake like biscuits from either formulas given above for Graham 
Bread. Roll up like biscuits, set to raise in gem tins and do not bake too 
hot. 



38o 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



FINQER ROLLS OR LADY WASHINGTON ROLLS, 

Dissolve 4 ounces yeast in 2 quarts of warm milk; add J/^ pound 
lard and butter, 6 ounces sugar, 1^4 ounces salt, i more quart milk, i 
quart water, and mix all into a smooth, medium, stiff dough. Take a 
blended flour, half Minnesota spring patent and winter wheat flour. 
Work the dough well and set to raise about 2>4 hours. Break off in 
small pieces, mould up round and cover with cloth; let them stand for 
about 15 minutes. Then mould in finger-shape and set close together on 
greased tins. Before baking wash with egg. 



COFFEE CRESCENTS (Huerbe Hoernchen). 

To 20 pounds of roll or bread dough take 2 pounds butter, I pound 
lard, 10 eggs, ^-4 pound sugar; mix well and make into crescents. Also 
see Vienna Baking, page 334. 




Fi>r. 113 — Moulding Crcscrnts. 



TEA BISCUITS. I. 



Cy^ pounds flour, 6 ounces baking powder. V/2 ounces salt all sifted 
together. Rub 12 ounces lard dry into the flour and mix all into a light 
(lough with 23 J quarts of cold tnilk. Roll out i34 inches thick, set close 
to^'fthcr and wash with milk ; prick with a fork or docker and bake in 
y**\'u\ heat. 



BALKAN STATES 




I nAKRK'li *IK>h 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 381 

SODA BI5CUITS. II. 

15 pounds flour, 2 pounds lard, 6 ounces cream of tartar, 3 ounces 
soda, 4^ quarts cold milk, ^ pound sugar, i pennyweight ammonia, 2 
ounces salt ; mix cream tartar and soda with flour. Mix dough more thor- 
oughly than for mixture No. I. and let the biscuits stand for 8 to 10 
minutes before they go into oven. 



HARYLAND BISCUITS. 

Take 4 pounds of old dough from day before and break up with 
I quart warm water, add ij^ ounces salt, ij4 ounces sugar, i pound 
lard and 6 pounds winter wheat flour. Mix into a stiff dough, roll 15 to 
18 times through rollers or beat with rolling pin until smooth and close. 
Make up into round biscuits and set on tins. Dock them with fork or 
docker and bake in hot oven. This same dough makes a good biscuit 
for sandwiches. Roll out a sheet y^2 inch thick, dock and cut with large 
biscuit cutter. 



HARYLAND BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Into one pound cake flour rub 3 ounces of lard and Yz teaspoonful of 
salt and one tablespoonful of sugar. Mix with a half pint cold water 
into a stiff dough. Knead for about 10 minutes, then take the rolling pin 
and beat the dough hard, turning over and over, until it is light and puffy. 
When you break a little piece off it must be snappy like cracker dough. 
Brake off small pieces now and mould up into round biscuits. Cut a 
little off on top in the centre and turn the biscuit over. Set them on 
slightly greased pans, two inches apart each way and let rest a few minutes^ 
then press a dent in centre of each with your thumb. Prick with fork 
and bake in a quick heat. It should take about twenty minutes. The 
edges will crack like crackers and the biscuits should be light and smooth. 



CORN MUFFINS. I. 



Mix together J^ pound sugar, 6 ounces corn meal. 6 ounces butter 
and lard mixed, 4 to 6 eggs, i pint cold milk, last 18 ounces wheat flour 
with one ounce good baking powder, pinch of salt. Have deep gem tins 
well greased and heated. 



382 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

CORN nUFFINS. II. 

3 pounds sugar, 18 ounces shortening (butter preferred), Ij4 pint 
eggs. ij4 ounces baking soda, 2^ ounces cream of tartar, 2 quarts milk 
2 pounds com meal, 33/2 to 4 pounds pastry flour. Follow instructions 
given above. 



CORN BREAD OR JOHNNIE CAKE. 

Same mixture as above, only add about 3 ounces more sugar and 
bake in long, flat tins. Dough should be a trifle softer than for muffins. 



RAISED DOUQHNUTS. 

To each 6 pounds of bread sponge (same as used for buns) add 
14 ounces shortening. Yz pound sugar, salt, mace for flavor and tg^ color 
to make a soft, smooth dough. 3 to 4 eggs can be added. When raised 
fry in lard or oil. 



BISHARCKS OR JELLY DOUQHNUTS. 

See Volume I., page 276. 



DOUQHNUTS OR CRULLERS. 

Mix I pint of eggs or yolks, 2]/* pounds sugar, 10 ounces shortening, 
salt, mace and vanilla flavor; add 2^^ quarts milk and 8 i)ounds of 
pastry lluur vsiftcd with 4 ounces good baking powder. 

A j)icce of bread or roll dough. ])rokcn fine with the milk, may be 
added to good advantage. Roll out, not too thick, cut out with cruller 
cutter and twist them. Let stand just a few minutes before putting into 
the hot grease. When cold, roll in a mixture of powdered sugar, corn- 
starch and vanilla powder or cinnamon. If you want to use sour milk, 
use double quantity of bakini: soda to above formula, and no cream of 
tartar. 



FRIED CAKES. 

Mix 8 eggs, V/i pounds sugar. '4 pound butter, i q^iart milk, salt, 
mace or vanilla powder and 4,^ 2 pounds pastry flour into which 2 ounces 



THE BAKER S BOOK* 383 

of good baking powder has been sifted. Mix only light so dough will not 
get tough. Roll out in a sheet J^ inch thick and cut out with round 
cutter which has a hole in the middle. 



COFFEE CAKE DOUQH. 1. 

Set soft sponge with 14 ounces yeast, 7 to 8 quarts warm milk 
and water mixed and sufficient flour. Beat sponge well and keep warm. 
When it breaks add : i^j to 2 pounds of butter and lard, 3 pounds sugar, 
2 to 3 pints of eggs or yolks, lemon and mace, salt, and 3 quarts more 
warm milk. Beat together well and set to raise in warm place for 2 to 4 
hours. 

This is what we call a Stock dough, from which any kind of buns 
or coffee cakes can be made. 



COFFEE CAKE DOUQH. II. 

Set sponge with 5 pints warm milk and 3 pints water, J^ pound 
yeast, ^ pound sugar and sufficient flour (about 10 pounds). When it 
breaks add 2 more quarts milk, i pound butter, 3,2 pound lard, ij^ pound 
sugar. 1I/2 pint eggs. 2 ounces salt, flavor and sufficient flour. Dough 
should be worked up young. 



COFFEE CAKE DOUQH. III. (Straight Doush). 

6 quarts milk and 3 quarts water at 85 or 90 degrees Fahrenheit. 
9 ounces yeast, 2 ounces salt. 3J/2 pounds sugar, 33^2 pound butter or part 
lard, lemon, vanilla, i quart eggs. Mixed flour sufficient to make medium 
soft dough. Beat dough well and keep young. 



CINNAMON KUCHEN. 

Roll out pieces of above dough J^ to Ji inch thick, to fit in large 
cookie pans, set to raise, prick with docker, wash with melted butter and 
sprinkle thick with sugar and cinnamon. Bake in medium heat and cut 
in squares. 



384 THE baker's book. 

STREUSEL KUCHEN. 

Same as above, only sprinkle with the following Streusel: One 
pound of cake flour, a half ounce cinnamon, a half pound powdered 
sugar; add five ounces good butter, melted, rub all together well and 
press through coarse sieve. 



BUTTER KUCHEN. 

Same as Cinnamon Kuchen only before going into oven spread small 
pieces of butter over whole top of cake about 2 inches apart. 



TURKHEAD5. 

Cream 10 ounces butter and 12 ounces sugar together; add 8 to 10 
eggs, Yi pint milk and mix well with 12 pounds of stock dough No. III. 



COFFEE WREATHS (Plain). 

From Stock dough No. II. or No. III. cut even pieces, roll them in 
long strips, braid three together and form into wreaths. Set on large 
greased tins or each separate in round tin, wash with eggwash, bake in 
hot oven and ice while hot with vanilla water icing. You can also 
sprinkle them before baking with coarse sugar and blanched, sliced 
almonds. 



VIENNA COFFEE CAKE. 

Fermented Puffpaste. 

Roll out a piece of Stock dough No. III., weighing 20 pounds, 
about one inch thick, spread with pieces of washed butter, same as for 
puffpaste, fold over and roll out same as puffpaste, folding it again. Let 
rest awhile and repeat rolling and folding twice. Then cut up in narrow 
strips and braid, forming into wreaths, pretzels, etc. 

Before folding the last time you may sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, 
raisins, citron and currents. Keep in cold room. 



CINNAHON BUNS. 

A piece of coffee-cake dough I. II, or III, roll out nearly one half 
inch thickness into a strip 10 to 12 inches wide, wash with melted butter. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



385 



sprinkle with cinnamon sugar and washed currants ; roll up, press down 
and cut with scraper into slices J4 inch wide. Set them cut side up, on 
greased pans, give light proof and bake in medium heat. While hot. 
wash with water icing. 



SNAILS, PRETZELS, 

Same as above, only form into different shapes. For finer trade you 
-can use the Vienna coffee-cake dough (puff paste). 



BREAD AND BISCUITS. 

Made with Sour Milk. 

The following formulas were prepared by the author of the "Baker's 
Book" for the Church & Dwight Co., for the use of Arm and Hammer 
and Cow Brand Baking Soda with Sour Milk. 

Sour milk with baking soda or saleratus produces about the same re- 
sults as cream of tartar and soda or baking powder. 



EXCELLENT CORN BREAD. 

Beat two eggs, the whites and yolks separately; take one pint of 
sour milk or buttermilk, two tablespoon fuls of sugar, one tablespoonful 
of butter, warmed so it will mix readily with the other ingredients, and a 
little salt. Mix these well together with the exception of the whites of the 
c&Ss. Put two-thirds of a teaspoon ful of Arm and Hammer Soda (or 
Saleratus). absolutely free from lumps, into a pint of corn meal and sift 
and stir them into the milk, etc., then after beating the whites of the eggs, 
add them also. Butter a pan thoroughly, and bake in a moderate oven. 



DOUGHNUTS (Sour Hiik). 

One cup sugar, two eggs, four tablespoon fuls of soft butter. Beat 
up light. Add one teaspoonful Arm and Hammer soda (or saleratus) 
dissolved in a little cold water, one large cup sour milk, one-half teaspoon- 
ful salt. Then add two cups flour sifted with one teaspoonful cream 
tartar. More flour may be required. Let the dough rest a while, then 
roll out half an inch thick and cut with doughnut cutter. Fry in hot 
fat and sprinkle with sugar. 



386 THE baker's book. 

RYE AND HEAL BREAD. 

Sift togother two cups r>'e meal, one and a half cups Indian meal 
and one teaspoonful salt. In one cup water and a half cup buttermilk 
dissolve one even teaspoonful Arm and Hammer soda (or saleratus), 
add a small cup New Orleans molasses. Stir in the meal a little at a time ; 
beat all up lightly and add two tablespoonfuls melted butter. Pbur at 
once into greased large tin. set into steamer and steam for three hours, 
then bake for about thirty minutes longer in oven to give it a good crust. 



POP OVERS. 



Rub together a cup and a half of sifted flour, a pinch of salt, a table- 
spoonful of sugar and a tablespoonful of butter. Add three eggs, beaten 
light, a cup and a half of milk and a pinch of Cowbrand soda. Bake in 
deep gem-pans well greased. 



JOHNNY CAKE. 



Sift together one cup and a quarter wheat flour, two cups Indian 
meal, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful salt. Mix together 
with two cups of sour milk and one teaspoonful best baking soda 
(or saleratus), dissolved in a little cold water. Add now to the batter 
three tablespoonfuls of soft butter and one to three eggs. Pour into well 
buttered tins and bake thirtv minutes in a brisk oven. 



GOLDEN CORN HUFFINS (Hrs. J. Braun). 

Three ounces ydlow corn meal, two ounces sugar, two ounces lard 
or butter, two eggs, all mixed and beaten. Add half a pint of milk with 
a quarter teaspoonful Arm and Hammer soda (or saleratus), half a 
pound of flour sifted with a half teasixx)nful of pure cream of tartar and 
a pinch of salt. Have the deep gem-tins well greased and heated, then 
fill them half full with the batter. 

If you want to use sour milk, lake a half teaspoonful Arm and Ham- 
mer soda (or saleratus) more and omit the cream of tartar. 



388 THE BAKER S BOOK. 

deep tins. A rich spongecake mixture is used, with plenty of eggs, but 
no yeast, seasoned with aniseseed. Fig 8, made after special formula, 
contains a large percentage of gluten, but no yeast. Fig. 9 is very nour- 
ishing for infants. 

Fig. ID, II, has a wide reputation; is very tender and is served ex 
tensively with tea or wine. Keeps well and is exported to all parts of 
the world. Fig. 12, baked in shape of a long roll, when one day old, 
each roll is cut in halves, iced with a rich egg frosting, flavored with 
vanilla powder, and then returned to oven until frosting is nicely 
browned. Fig. 13, baked in large tins, sliced, ilot too thin, rolled in 
vanilla or cinnamon sugar after being toasted. Fig. 14 contains almonds, 
is baked very hard; served with wine or liquers. Fig. 15, made princi- 
pally of Graham flour; little or no sugar is used. Served with butter. 
Fig. 16. Like anis-zwieback (Fig. 7) only substitute vanilla and ground 
almonds for aniseseed. Fig. 17. Like infant's food (Fig. 9). Not rich 
in material, but very nourishing. See formula for Army-Zwieback. 

Germany manufactures more Zwieback than any other country. 
The firm of Harry Trueller, in Celle (Hanover), operate*, perhaps, the 
most complete plant for the manufacture of this specialty. The old 
style of hand work has been nearly altogether replaced by ingenious, 
modern machinery. The materials used are all of the verv choicest 
quality. Special kneading machines make the dough, which is then car- 
ried to dividing, or cutting machines, cutting the dough into equal 
parts, which are then moulded up into desired shapes, round or long, 
and placed on pans. These are placed upon racks and rolled into the 
proving room. From here they go into the patent steam oven. The 
baking requires only a few minutes. Direct from the oven the pans are 
carried by a traveling belt into the coolinp: rooms. From here the zwie- 
back is sent by elevators to the next floor where automatically working 
cutting machines cut the zwieback. This being done, these slices are 
l)rought in specially constructed cars in the roasting room ; really the most 
important part of the factory. The zwieback slices are automatically placed 
on to the shelves by a so-called traveling or chain oven. When they have 
traveled slowly through the whole length of the oven, they come out a 
golden brown, toasted to perfection on the opposite side. Each one of 
these roasting ovens has a capacity of toasting 100,000 zwieback every 
24 hours. From here the finished zwieback slices are carried to the pack- 
ing rooms, which is also done automatically, and where they are packed 
into neat packages, or in boxes, ready for shipment to all parts of the 
world. 



THE baker's book. 389 

GERMAN MILK ZWIEBACK. 

8 lbs. cake flour. 
1/2 lb. sugar. 

1 lb. butter (softened). 

2 oz. compressed yeast. 
8-10 eggs. 

Salt, milk. 

Set a soft sponge with 2 pounds of the flour, the yeast and 
sufficient warm milk. When the sponge breaks, add the rest of ingredi- 
ents. Add flour gradually and beat the dough well. Flavor with vanilla 
sugar, or grated lemon-rind, or both. Add only sufficient milk to make a 
medium stiff dough and set to prove in warm place, where it is protected 
from draught. Push down twice. 

This Zwieback can be made up in different shapes. It may be baked 
in long, oval tins, narrow long tins or moulded up into long rolls, or 
round buns, which latter two kinds are pressed down evenly, after having 
proved a while, slightly grease tins. 



CARLSBAD ZWIEBACK. 

For each 2 pounds of flour use about i pint of milk, ^ ounce com- 
pressed yeast, 1-3 ounce salt. Make straight dough ; mould up like small 
round buns. When baked, let stand one day; then cut in halves and 
toast in oven. 



VIENNA ZWIEBACK. 

For 10 pounds of flour take 5 pounds butter (softened). 2>4 pints 
eggyolk or take whole eggs, which have been beaten with i pint sweet 
cream, 10 ounces compressed yeast. 5 pounds sugar, i^ ounces salt. 
Mix into a stiff dough, adding whatever warm milk required. Beat the 
dough well from 20 to 30 minutes. Set away to raise in warm place. 
When placed on the moulding table, break in small pieces of about i 
ounce each. Roll them out in fingershapc 3J^ inches long, set close 
together on greased pans in rows the whole width of the pan, leaving 
about 2 inches space between each row. Give them very little proof. 
Wash with milk and bake in medium hot oven. When baked, let stand a 
day, if possible; then slice them and dip in powdered sugar mixed with 
powdered vanilla, and toast them in cool oven ; be cautious so the sugar 
does not melt. 



390 THE baker's book. 

ANIS ZWIEBACK. 

Beat 4 pounds of sugar with 40 eggs, like spongecake (warm mix- 
ture). Mix in carefully 4 pounds dry, sifted flour and 2 ounces anise- 
seed. Take half rich winter wheat flour and half spring wheat. Roll 
out in long rolls and bake on greased tins, or in long, deep, narrow tins- 
Slice and toast. 



AMERICAN ZWIEBACK. 

3 gallons milk. 

y2 pound compressed yeast. 
5 pounds good butter. 
9 pounds sugar. 
I quart eggs. 

4 ounces salt. 

\^anilla and lemon flavor. 

Dissolve the yeast in 13^ pints of the milk (warm) and make a small 
sponge with sufficient of the flour. Then add i gallon of the milk and 
more flour to make a larger sponge. Set this away again, covered, in 
warm place to prove until it falls in centre. Now add gradually the 
sugar, butter, eggs, milk, flour, salt and flavor. 

Work dough thoroughly until it is smooth and blisters. Let prove 
again, but not too much, as dough must be young. Proceed as mentioned 
in previous formula. 



GERMAN ARHY ZWIEBACK. 

The following formula is furnished by the department of provisions 
of the German army: 2 kilo, wheat flour, 6 gramm. caraway, 20 g^amm. 
natron bicarbonicum (saleratus), 20 gramm. salt, i kilo, water (at 
40 (lep:rcc C. ) is all mixed well in kneading machine, passed through brake 
several times and immediately moulded, placed on tins and baked at once 
without further proof; should bake about 35 minutes. 



ARHY ZWIEBACK (Improved). 

Formula — 28 kilo, mixed wheat flour, 2,800 gramm. fine sugar, 420 
gramm. compressed yeast, 280 gramm. salt. Set the sponge with the 
yeast, about yj kilo, water and 5 kilo, of the flour, and let rest 40 min- 



THE baker's book. 3QI 

utes. Then add the rest of the flour and then ingredients. Knead well 
and set away to prove for about 30 minutes. Then proceed as above 
mentioned. 

Zwieback should only contain 7>4 per cent, water on an average, after 
being toasted. 



FRIEDRICHSDORFER ZWIEBACK. 

For a mixture of 6yi pounds of flour take 9-10 eggs, 10 ounces 
butter, 14 ounces sugar and 6 ounces yeast. Proceed as mentioned in 
previous formulas. Make straight dough with sufficient milk. 



HOLLAND ZWIEBACK. 

I quart of milk, 4 ounces of yeast, 5 eggs, 6J/^ ounces sugar, yi pound 
of malt extract, yi pound butter or lard, about 5 pounds flour, 1-3 oz. salt. 

Set sponge with milk, eggs, yeast and flour. When half risen add 
sugar, extract, shortening and salt and little more flour. Let raise, push 
down 2-3 times, break and roll up like buns, press flat, and turn the 
mould over each one. When brown on top, which can be seen through 
holes of moulds, they are done. Each biscuit is cut in two and again 
toasted brown on cut side. 

The moulds are made of Russia iron, they are round, about }i inches 
high and have a diameter of 3 to 3^ inches. The bottom is perforated 
with a nimiber of small holes. In place of moulding them up, like buns, 
the dough can be rolled out in sheets and cut out with cutter just a 
trifle smaller than the moulds. 



SALT A5 A DETERRENT IN YEA5T FERHENTATION. 

(From Proceedings of American Association for the Advancement of 

Science.) 

BY KATHERINE E. GOLDEN, OF LAFAYETTE, IND. 

In the fermentation of bread, salt is always one of the ingredients, 
not used, however, for any eflfect it has on the fermentation, but merely 
as a flavoring. To determine the effect the salt has beyond the flavoring, 
some experiments were carried out, using sponges, doughs, and lastly 
solutions containing no flour. 

In the first set of experiments six different sponges were made, 
containing equal quantities of flour, water, yeast, and salt, varying in 



3921 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

quantity from one per cent, to five per cent, of the water used. One 
sponge had no salt added ; this to be used as a control. In mixing the 
sponges the salt and yeast were added to the water before the flour so 
as to ensure a thorough mixing. The sponges were placed in an oven at 
23 degrees C, and observations taken at intervals of half an hour. A 
second series was conducted at 37 degrees .C. and a third at 40 degrees 
C. For ease in reading slight variations in the fermentation, the sponges 
were mixed in long test tubes of nearly uniform diameter. In the cor- 
responding numbers of the three series the fermentation action was fairly 
uniform, that is, there were practically the same differences between one 
per cent, and two per cent, whether fermented at 23 degrees C. or 40 
degn-ees C. The following table shows the average of the three series, 
the figures showing much regularity in the action. As the quantity of 
salt increased from one per cent, up, the action of fermentation was 
checked in a corresponding ratio. These sets of experiments were re- 
peated three times, and showed verj- slight variations in the results, so 
that the set of figures given are typical of the action: 

INCREMENTS OF FERMENTATION IN INCHES. 



KXJ>CT - 

tuvnl. 


Per cent. 


lUl: Hour. 


One Hour. 


One and One- 
hall Hour. 


Two Hotirs. 


(1 





.C<K> 


1-375 


1.708 


1583 


/» 


I 


•54^ 


1.292 


1.625 


1.625 


(' 


J 


.450 


1.200 


1.500 


1.666 


(/ 


3 


•345 


.058 


1.375 


1-375 


C 


4 


•313 


.875 


1.250 


1-375 


f 


5 


.146 


.292 


.438 


1.666 



A M'iu> 01 cxpcrinunts with stiff doughs was then conducted; and 
ill \hv ilou^hs, as in the sjxMigcs, the salt acted as a deterrent, though the 
sli^jhl vaiiatii^iis that couKl Ik* seen easily in the sponges could not be 
tiriti tril in the doughs as broader and firmer vessels had to be used for 
\hv iniMug. 

In ihrvr o\|Hrinionts where flour entered as an ingredient, it would 
hv \\\\\H\s\'\\Av to lUicnuinc whether the yeast was acted upon directly by 
ilh '..^li. «M in»liuvtl\ b\ the action of the salt upon some constituent of the 
llnju Mt|inirtl h\ tbo \cast. To obviate this difficulty in interpretation a 
•Mil", nt rvpriiiucnts was inaile. usinjj Pasteur solution with cane sug^r, 
I lu'M* N\nr o.uiiril vMi in tVrmontation tubes. As in the former experi- 
ini nu, %'{\\\a\ \\\\i\\\\\\ws of the solution and of the yeast were used in 
im li I lir '-.dl \ancd Ivoni one to four jjrams, or 4, 8, 12, and 16 per cent. 



THE baker's book. 393 

respectively of the solution used as the tubes held 25 cc. solution. The 
control formed '^sufficient gas to displace the solution in the tube in 
twenty-three hours, the 4 per cent, tube took thirty-seven hours, 8 per 
cent, took thirty-eight hours, 12 per cent, forty-seven hours, while the 16 
per cent, took seven days. 

The fermentation in this series was weak, due probably to the 
yeast which was f'fom a dry yeast cake, and though there was a gram 
used in each tube, this gives only a small quantity of yeast, as the cake 
contains much more corn meal. In the next series a compressed yeast 
was used, one-half gram in each tube. The action of fermentation was 
more vigorous and more regular than in the former series. The obser- 
vations were taken every quarter hour. 



ft "3 Hours; 



Volume of Gas in CC. 



« ^ 34 i^ J4 I I'A I'A iH ^H ^y4 3 7 20 23 
a o 3 2 3 2y2 3 3 2y2 6 

b 2 4 2 1)4 2 2>^ 2 2 6 3 

r 4 I I 1)4 I lyi 1 ^Yi A 4 2 6>^ 

d 6 I 2-5 3-5 2y^ ij4 lYi isYi 2 .... 

e 8 6 I2J4 2J4 

The figures in the table arc the number of c.c. of gas generated in the 
given periods of time, and show clearly that, as the quantity of salt in- 
creased, the vigor of fermentation decreased. 

In the next series of experiments the quantities of the yeast and the 
solution were the same as in the preceding, but the quantity of salt was 
decreased ; this in order to determine how small a quantity could be used 
and still get a deterrent action, i, 2, 3 and 4 decigrams of salt, or .4 per 
cent., .8 per cent., 1.2 per cent., 1.6 per cent, respectively of the solution 
w^ere used. In this set the control started fermentation but very slightly 
ahead of those containing the salt and then kept that same amount ahead, 
but there was no appreciable difference between any of the others. 

The experiments indicate that salt has a deterrent action upon fer- 
mentation, even when used in very small quantities, and that after a 
certain quantity of salt is used, the action is in a direct ratio with the 
quantity of salt used : r.lso that the action is directly upon the yeast, and 
does not depend upon other ingredients of the sponge. 

Boutroux made some experiments upon leaven, using tartaric acid. 
In France a different method from ours for fermenting the bread is used. 
There a portion of the dough is kept from one baking to the next to l>c 
mixed with the fresh dough. In Boutroux's experiments he used the tar- 



V 



394 T^^ BAKER S BOOK. 

taric acid in the leaven and in the dough, and found that the dough fer- 
mented more vigorously when the acid was in the fresh dough than when 
in the leaven. He then tried leaven in acid and neutral wort, and 
obtained vigorous growth in the neutral wort, and but slight growth in the 
acid wort. He states that salt in dough should act like tartaric acid, that 
it retards the fermentation when it is used in any but very small quantities. 
Jago found that salt retarded the fermentation of the dough, but he 
found no difference in the action between a 1.4 per cent, salt solution and 
a 2.9 per cent. ; but found that a 5 per cent, solution retarded the fermen- 
tation very materially. He advises using the salt in the last kneading. 
This IS practicable where a sponge is first made, then the dough ; but many 
persons make a stiff dough at once, and if the salt were kept for the 
last kneading, it could not be mixed thoroughly with the dough, but 
would be more liable to stay in pockets. The experiments indicate that 
where a sponge is used and a quick fermentation desired, the salt would 
better be added in the last stages. 



THE SCIENTIFIC PRESERVATION OF BREAD. 

Prepared for "The Bakers Book'' by Henri A. Sevigni. 

Until about the year 1890 the bakers of this, as well as foreign coun- 
tries, gave little, or no thought to the preservation of bread, after bak- 
ing, and seemed to care only for two things, namely, getting the goods 
out as quickly as possible and at as little expense, regardless of conse- 
quences, which were sure to follow. 

It seems strange that a baker after having gone to the expense and 
trouble of building a bakery and equipping it with the best and most 
expensive ovens, machinery and all other appliances necessary for the 
successful carrying on of his business (not to mention the fact, that the 
raw materials purchased are of the highest quality) should allow his 
product to be handled in the most careless and dangerous manner, by 
shop employees as well as drivers of the delivery wagons, and last, but 
not least, the grocers and their clerks; never seeming to give one thought 
to the fact, that bread (the most susceptible, to contamination, of any 
article of food), should have a covering that would guarantee its delivery 
to the customer in a cleanly and healthful condition, and especially since 
it can not be sterilized, having been previously cooked. 



THE baker's book« 395 

It has been discovered by eminent bacteriologists, that bread many 
times has been the means of conveying some of the most deadly disease 
germs, while if it had been protected by a germ proof wrapper, composed 
of wax paper or other suitable material, it could not have been the 
medium of transmission. 

In all the world of the pests that annoy man most, the common house 
fly, may be considered the worst. It not only defaces walls, tumbles 
into our milk, and annoys us generally, but worst of all, is a conveyor of 
contagious diseases. During our late war >yith Spain, the camps of our 
soldiers were infested with the dreaded typhoid, and it was firmly asserted 
by the sanitary officers, who inspected the camps, that the offensive con- 
dition of the latrines were caused by the common fly which carried pesti- 
lential germs. It is a well known fact that flies like sweetmeats and 
especially bread. In every bakeshop, flies swarm by the millions and 
while we quarantine against yellow fever and cholera, we permit the 
filth and germs of the street to be conveyed and trodden all over our 
bread, despite the knowledge that the common fly lives and breeds on 
stable manure, decayed meats, fish, and sewage. 

Within the past few years bakers have become more enlightened on 
the subject of disease germs and are taking steps to improve the sanitary 
condition of their plants, more especially since the public rebels against 
the uncleanly methods employed by so many bakers. 

Many bakers have in consequence adopted the method of wrapping 
their bread in wax paper and it is needless to say, that in every instance 
the results have been most gratifying, because the public is always in- 
terested in an article that suggests cleanliness and healthfulness. 

I shall endeavor to describe in brief detail the scientific reasons for 
the wrapping of bread and shall beg to submit the following, which is 
the result of long observation and exhaustive experiments, by some of 
the most eminent bacteriologists in America and Europe. 

As I proceed I shall be obliged to refer to some of the most cele- 
brated tests, conducted by eminent authorities in this line of work, and 
in doing so, I extend apologies and acknowledgment to these gentlemen. 

FIRST: Bread leaves the oven with a hard crust and soft humid 
crumb, but it does not remain in this state for a period longer than 
from one to one and a half hours, as a change quickly takes place, the 
more rapid in proportion with the smallness of the loaf. The crust will 
grow soft and elastic yet the crumb will become hard and friable unless 



396 THE baker's book. 

evaporation is arrested by enveloping the loaf in a practically air-tight 
and water-proof wrapper. 

At the end of twenty-four hours the bread has acquired the tempera- 
ture of the surrounding air (about 64 degrees F.) and the weight has 
decreased about one-sixteenth and is quite stale. 

This loss of water, so small in comparison with the amount in the 
bread (forty to forty-five one hundredths per cent.) would not cause so- 
great a change were there not OTHER changes. If a loaf of bread 
contains less than thirty per.cent. of moisture, it is STALE ; staleness is 
not wholly due to loss of moisture, but is largely due to a special molecu- 
lar condition which develops (about 80 degrees F.) during the cooling, 
and continues until the temperature falls below 60 degrees F. 

In fresh bread, water is in the free state, but in the course of time 
(when exposed to the gases present in the air) it combines chemically and 
causes staleness. 

It is also due to the chemical or physical combination of the moisture 
with the albuminous material which the bread contains. This is theoretic 
cally the cause of staleness given by Koenig, who is the best authority in 
the world. 

Elxperiments have been made to demonstrate whether oxygen could 
pass through paraffine paper. A sterile culture tube was taken and in- 
oculated with aerobic bacteria. (Aerobic bacteria are bacteria which 
demand oxygen for their growth.) This was then closed with paraffine 
paper. At the end of a week a copious growth of these bacteria had 
taken place, thus demonstrating that oxygen would pass through the 
paper. Summing up the results of these experiments it has been demon- 
strated that bread preserved by the waxed paper process maintains its 
moisture, its porosity, possesses the usual nutritive properties of fresh 
bread, does not contain an excessive amount of water, remains sterile and 
free from bacteria, and in some way maintains its palatable qualities. 

It has been asked why bread protected with wax paper should re- 
main fresh without becoming stale, longer than unprepared bread, sup- 
posing the only difference between the two breads to be that the pre- 
served bread is covered by a waterproof wrapper. 

I can only answer that by a theory ; the theory is that the paraffine 
paper has through its pores a species of osmosis, by which there is a 
mutual interchange of oxygen from the air and water which is moisture, 
from the bread, and also that this process is a much more gradual one 
than takes place when bread is freecly exposed to the air. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



397 



Besides staleness, bread undergoes other very important changes, 
due to micro-organisms, which render it unfit as an article of food ; thus 
bread is attacked, unless protected by a microbe and water-proof wrap- 
per (not the ordinary porous papers) from dampness, by the ordinary 
"fungus" (Penicillium Glaucum), which rapidly develops and covers 
the surface of the loaf with a white vel^ty mass (invisible to the naked 
eye), the filaments of which run through the minute crevices of the crust, 
and spread inside the loaf. 

It has been my experience that if they do not appear in a week 
they will not appear at all. This is simply confirmatory of the fact that 
paraffin paper excludes bacterial or fungus growths. 

Allowing that the flour or wheat used, was previously injured by 
this "Fungus" or contained its spores, the heat required to bake it (284 
degrees F.) is sufficient to sterilize the bread. 

There are sometimes tiny red spots that appear on the crust of bread 
and rolls (not visible to the naked eye), caused by the "bacterium" called. 
Micrococcus Prodigiosus. which flourishes if aljowed to be kept in a 
dark place (example, box or other dark receptacle). 

This "bacterium" is very sensitive to light, therefore, the advantage 
of a transparent wrapi>er, such as waxed paper. 

Hread cannot be kept as healthful and cleanly without the operation 
on some such protective rule as herein described. 




GluKii Lo*f Partiallv WtippcJ. 



398 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



HOW AND WHEN TO WRAP BAKERS* BREAD. 




Rrst, purchase the best Wax Wrappers, which are made expressly 

for bread and therefore the best adapted for the work. 

Ordinary waxed paper is not so suitable to do the work properly. 
Then place a Wrapper on a smooth surface {putting on a label), 

placing a loaf on the paper, bottom side up (if printed paper is used, leave 




out the label), as in Fig. i. The loaf is then enveloped 3S in Fig. 2, 
folding the edges in a double seam (as shown in cut), which draws the 
wrapper around tightly and makes a practically air tight covering. 

XoTE. — The loaf is bottom side up during this time. 

After having folded in one end, as in Fig. 3. the loaf is turned up as 
in Fig. 4. and the last folds turned down ; then the twine is tied around 
lengthwise, once, as shown in Fig. 4. 

Bread should nncr be wrapped while hot. for it will steam ; renderii^ 



THE BAKER S BOOU. 




it unfit for food. To determine the proper heat at which it should be 
wrapped, place the back of \our hand on the top of the loaf and if it can 
be borne without pain, the bread is sufficiently cool to wrap without dan- 
ger of steamfng. This rule applies lo 99 cases out of a 100. 

If a little care is exercised when learning, a person soon becomes 
able to wrap very rapidly. Avoid the practice of holding the loaf against 
you and tying the twine lengthwise and crosswise, for that is an unneces- 
sary process and waste of one-half the twine. 




Unless bread is properly wrapped, a baker has wasted time and 
money. "What is worth doing at all, is worth doing well." An aitracHve 
package appeals to the average buyer of anything, especially bread. 



400 THE baker's BOOK. 

Hiik. 

(From Das Bdckerbuch.) '*. 

In every bakery where the finer breakfast breads are prepared, 
milk is a ver)f important ingredient and therefore requires the full 
attention of tl^e baker. 

Milk consists, in a normal condition, of 87.75% water, 3.4 % fat, 
3.6% caseous matter and albumen, 4.5% sugar of milk, 0.75% mineral 
salts. The specific gravity of milk is 1.031, the boiling and freezing 
points nearly correspond with those of water, that is 2 1 2 degrees Fahren- 
heit and 32 degrees Fahrenheit, respectively. 

For the general inspection of milk the lactometer and the milk 
scales are only sufficient to a certain degree, as an addition of water up 
to twenty per cent, will not be indicated by these scales ; this is accounted 
for by the fact that by skimming milk the specific gravity is increased, 
but can be made normal again by the addition of water. 

To some extent the color of the milk will indicate its purity, and a 
drop of pure milk dripped on the finger nail will retain a round, beadlike 
shape, while watery milk will spread in irregular form. 

As nearly all other food products, milk is subject to decay, caused 
either by age or through the influence of high temperature. And this 
decay is always caused through the influence of bacilli which are formed 
in the milk itself or reach it from outside. Milk becomes sour through 
the influence of a bacillus on the sugar of milk. Blue milk is caused 
througli the influence of a bacillus on the caseous substance of the milk, 
forming aniline blue. The cause of red milk is generally to be found in 
morbid condition of the udder of the cow from which it is drawn, but 
instances of bacilH causing this condition are also on record. Bitter 
milk is mostly caused through the fodder, while at times diseases of the 
udder are responsible. SHmy milk is produced .solely by the influence of 
bacilli. Another cause of bad milk is the presence of excrements of 
the cow, and where such a condition is suspected the baker should, in 
the interests of his customers, submit a specimen to chemical analysis. 

In case any of the vessels in the bakery have contained decayed 
milk they should be thoroughly disinfected, a cheap and safe process is 
this respect is to paint the vessels with pftimfly primon kulk and then 
rinse them in boiling water. 

The souring of milk. can he somewhat prevented, or at least delayed 
by the addition of sodium carbonate in the proportion of one teaspoonful 
to a quart of milk. Carbonated milk is now largely used. It is prepared 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



40 1 



by submitting ordinary milk to a pressure of a few atmospheres with 
oxygen and carbonic acid gas, and then botthng like mineral 
waters. It is claimed that milk can be preserved perfectly sweet in this 
state for about sixty days. 

We produce herewith a suitable and simple cooling apparatus, 
which has proved useful in small bakeries. The illustration explains it- 
self except that it may be mentioned that the pails rise and fall in the 
tank according to the weight of the contents and that a simple contriv- 
ance prevents the tipping of the pails. 




Warm milk which is cooled in 'this apparatus in one hour would 
require fully eight hours' cooling in a cellar to reach the same low tem- 
perature, provided the water circulating in the tank does not exceed 
fifty degrees Fahrenheit. 



402 THE baker's BOOK. 



MILK A5 FOOD. 

(Reprinted by permission of the U. S. Agricultural Department.) 

INTRODUCTION. 

A quart of milk contains about the same amount of nutriment as 
three-quarters of a pound of beef, namely, about 4 ounces. Six ounces 
of bread would likewise supply not far from 4 ounces of nutritive sub- 
stances. To put it in another way, about one-eighth of the whole 
weight of the milk, one-third of the beef, and two-thirds of the bread 
consist of actually nutritive ingredients. The other seven-eighths of the 
milk and one-third of the bread are water, while the two-thirds of the 
meat which is not actual nutriment is mainly water, but consists in part 
of bone. 

But while the quart, or 2 pounds, of milk, the 12 ounces of beef, 
and the 6 ounces of bread all supply like amounts of nutriment, the 
nutritive values are not exactly the same ; in other words, they would not 
be equally useful for food. Either the milk or the bread eaten alone 
would make a better balanced food for man than the meat, because it 
contains the different kinds of nutritive ingredients, or nutrients, in 
proportions more nearly adapted to supply the wants of the body than 
is the case with the nutrients of the meat. 

Milk contains all of the ingredients needed for nourishment ; that is, 
it furnishes the materials which build up the body and keep it in repair, 
and also those which supply it with fuel to keep it warm and to furnish 
the animal machine with the power needed to do its work. 

The composition of milk and other food materials, the kinds and 
amounts of different ingredients they contain, are found by analysis in 
the chemical laboratory. But (since analysis is a separation into con- 
stituent parts) a rough analysis of milk is made in the dairy and in the 
kitchen. When milk stands the cream rises. This cream consists of 
minute particles of fat, surrounded by casein and other substances. The 
cream is put in the churn and shaken, and the globules of fat gather to- 
gether as butter. This separation of the butter fat is a partial analysis 
of the milk. When rennet is added to milk it is curdled. The ferment 
of the rennet causes the casein to coagulate, forming the curd. This 
is put in the cheese press, the liquid is pressed out, and the curd is changed 
to cheese, which contains the casein and with it fat and other materials 



THE baker's book. 4O3 

which were in the milk and were entangled or inclosed in the coagulated 
casein. The whey from which the curd has beeh separated contains a 
kind of sugar, which can in its turn be separated from the fluid, and is 
prepared commercially and sold as milk sugar. After the sugar has 
been removed there still remains in the milk considerable amounts of 
mineral compounds. 

If at the outset the milk had been heated, the water might have been 
evaporated and the casein, fat, sugar, mineral salts, and other materials 
would have remained as the milk solids. These together make up the 
nutrients of the milk. 

When milk is used for food the casein and allied compounds serve 
the body for building and repair, and are also used for fuel. The fat and 
sugar are the chief fuel ingredients. The mineral compounds aid in 
forming tissue, and have other uses as well, but they are needed only in 
small quantities. 

The value of milk for nourishment is not as well understood as it 
should be. Many people think of it as a beverage, rather than a food. To 
understand its nutritive value, and how it compares with other food 
materials in this regard, we must consider, briefly, the nature, composi- 
tion, and uses of food materials. 



COMPOSITION OF MILK. 

The chief bulk of milk is, of course, made up of water, the amount 
of which may vary even in ordinary unadulterated milk from 90 per 
cent, in a very poor product to 84 per cent, in an unusually rich milk. 
The corresponding solid matter, or "total solids," varies from 10 per 
cent, to 16 per cent. This solid matter, or "total nutrients," is made up 
of protein, fats, carbohydrates, and mineral matter. The proportion of 
these vary within certain limits; but, roughly speaking, one-twentieth 
of the total solids are mineral substances, one-fourth protein, three-tenths 
fat, and four-tenths carbohydrates. 

The* protein compounds of milk, — The principal nitrogenous com- 
pound of milk is casein. This, when the milk is drawn from the cow,, 
is in a form which is called caseinogen, but undergoes changes which 
bring it into the form of casein. For convenience it is here referred to 
in all its forms as casein. In chemical composition the casein differs 
from the other protein compounds of milk in that it contains both phos- 



404 THE baker's book. 

phorus and sulphur. Besides the casein there is a certain amount of 
albumin present, called lact-albumin, or albumin of milk. This is more 
or less similar to the albumin which occurs in blood and in white of egg. 
The quantity of albumin is very much smaller than that of the casein, 
being on the average about one-seventh of the total protein. There are 
other nitrogenous substances occurring in milk, but in insignificant quan- 
tities. The total protein of milk should not vary in any great degree. 
It will average not far from 3.3 per cent, of the whole milk, or about 25 
per cent, of the total solids. 

The fats of milk, — The fat of milk is commercially the most im- 
portant of its constituents, since it is the source of butter and enters 
largely into the composition of cheese. Chemically speaking, the fat of 
milk, or butter fat, as it is more often called, consists of several different 
fats. The chief of these are the same fats that make up the bulk of 
fat meat (tallow, lard, etc.), as well as many vegetable fats. They are 
called stearin, palmitin, and olein. Besides these three fats there are 
others in smaller amounts, but of considerable importance, since it is to 
them that the flavor and aroma of the butter is due. The amount of 
fat in milk varies widely, the amount of normal milk depending upon 
various conditions, some of which are mentioned beyond. The amount 
of fat should not fall below 3 per cent., and, except in unusually rich 
milk, will not exceed 5 per cent. Good unadulterated milk from a herd 
of well-fed cows should average not far from 4 per cent, of butter fat, 
or about 31 per cent of the total solids of the milk. 

The carbohydrates of milk. — The chief com|X)und of this class which 
occurs in milk is lactose, or sugar of milk. Milk sugar is similar in 
chemical composition to cane sugar, hut is not nearly as sweet. It is 
largely used by physicians and pharmacists as the basis of powders and 
pills. In amount it ranges from 4 to 6 per cent., but on the average may 
be said to be 5 per cent., of the milk, or about 38 per cent, of the total 
solids. 

There is a considerable variation in the composition of the milk of 
different animals. The richest milk appears to come from the dog, the 
poorest from the horse. Human milk is richer in sugar and poorer in 
protein than cow's milk, but the fuel value is about the same. These 
facts are brought out in the following table : 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 
Comparative composition of various kinds of milk} 

/ Total solids. 



Kind of Milk. 



Total 
Water, solids. 



Casein. 



Protein.— 



Albu- Total 
min . protein. 



Fat. 



405 



SH' Mineral Fuel 
]^y- mat- value 

tmiS* ^" P*^ 



Per ct. Per ct. Pont. Per ct. Per ct. Per ft. Per ct. Pcrct. Calories. 

Woman 87.4 12.6 i.o 1.3 2.3 3.8 6.2 0.3 319 

Cow 87.2 12.8 3.0 .5 3.5 3.7 4-9 7 3^3 

Dog 75.4 24.6 6.1 5.1 1 1.2 9.6 3.1 .7 671 

Ewe 80.8 19.2 5.0 1.5 6.5 6.9 4.9 .9 503 

Buffalo 81.4 18.6 5.8 .3 6.1 7.5 4-1 -9 506 

Cat 82.1 17.9 3.1 6.0 9.1 3.3 4.9 .6 400 

Goat 85.7 14.3 3.2 I.I 4.3 4.8 4.4 -8 365 

Llama 86.5 13.5 3.0 .9 3 9 3-2 56 .8 312 

Ass 89.6 10.4 .7 1.6 2.3 1.6 6.0 .5 222 

Mare 91.5 8.5 1.2 .1 1.3 1.2 5.7 .3 180 

'Konig, Chcmie der menschlichen Nahrungs- und Gcnussmittel, 3d ed., I, pp. 267-362. 
CHARACTERISTICS AND PROPERTIES OF MILK. 



The color and opaqueness of milk are clue mainly to globules of fat, 
which are very minute and almost numberless. These are held in sus- 
pension in the liquid in the form of an emulsion; but, since they are 
lighter than water, after the milk has stood for some time they gradu- 
ally rise to the surface, and thus accumulating form the cream. The 
action of the separator is on the same principle, only in this case the 
heavier portion of milk, f. c, the water, casein, and sugar, are thrown 
as far from the centre as possible by the rapidly rotating machine, and 
the lighter cream, being thus forced to the centre, can be drawn off. 

When milk has stood for some time, the milk sugar undergoes de- 
composition, whereby lactic acid is formed and the milk becomes sour. 
Accompanying this souring of milk, there is a change in its consistency 
and it becomes thick or curdled. The same change can be brought about 
by the addition of an acid, vinegar for example. If milk thus curdled 
is neutralized with some alkali, such as limewater or soda, the curd is 
redissolved. Milk is also curdled or coagulated by rennet, and the curd 
thus produced is utilized in the manufacture of cheese. This curd, unlike 
that of ordinary sour milk, is not dissolved by the addition of lime- 
water or soda. 

A scum forms upon the surface of milk when it is boiled. This is 



4o6 THE baker's book. 

probably due to the coagulation by heat of the protein of the milk, 
chiefly its albumin^ but perhaps to a slight extent its casein also. 

Milk is slightly heavier than water, its specific gravity ranging from 
1.029 to 1.034 at 60 degrees Fahrenheit. This means that while a quart 
of water weighs 2 pounds i 1-3 ounces, a quart of milk weighs from 
1.029 to 1.034 times as much, or not far from 2 pounds 2j/^ ounces. The 
specific gravity depends upon the proportion of water and other sub- 
stances. Since the fat is lighter than water, the richer the milk is in 
butter fat the lower its specific gravity, provided, of course, that the other 
solids are not increased proportionally. It follows, also, that the removal 
of the fat increases the specific gravity, so that skim milk has a specific 
gravity of from 1.033 ^o 1.037. On the other hand, the addition of water 
to skimmed milk brings down the specific gravity. 



VARIATIONS IN MILK. 



Excepting meats, there is probably no one article of food which is 
liable to so wide a variation in its percentage composition as the milk 
supplied the consumer. The variations are so great, in fact, as to make 
it entirely possible that one man may pay nearly twice as much as his 
neighbor for the same amount of nutrients when both buy at the same 
price per quart. The causes of such variations are quite numerous and 
need be touched upon but briefly. The variation in composition of pure 
milk is due in a large degree to the breed or mdividuality of the cow, 
to the methods of feeding and handling, and the length of time since 
calving. 

With regard to this subject Professor Voorhees says: 

"The influence of breed is very marked, so much so that dairy breeds 
are classified into milk and butter breeds — that is, those which give a 
large quantity of poorer quality, and those which give a smaller quantity 
of a higher quality. * * * With the improvement of the stock by 
the introduction of recognized butter producing breeds of cows the quality 
of the product also materially improves." 

In general young cows produce richer milk than old ones, though 
much depends upon the health and vigor of the animal. A well-fed cow 
gives more and better milk than one which is poorly fed, but the relative 
proportions of fat, casein, and sugar do not appear to be greatly influenced 
by the composition of the food. The average cow of a given breed 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 4O7 

possesses certain capabilities for producing milk, but does not reach her 
normal capacity of milk production unless she is well fed. When once 
she has a sufikient and well-balanced ration, neither the composition nor 
the amount of the milk yield seems to be greatly improved by either 
increasing the ration or changing the proportion of its ingredients. 

The milk flow of a given cow is usually largest soon after calving; 
as the period of lactation increases, the flow gradually falls off, and, as 
a rule, the milk grows richer, i. e., the proportion of solids increases. 
The proportion of fat to the other solids in the milk of a given cow 
varies from day to day and from milking to milking. 

Another cause of variation in milk is found in the temptation of 
unprincipled milkmen to adulterate their product. The chief methods 
of adulteration are (i) the addition of water, (2) the removal of a por- 
tion of the fat, either with or without the addition of water, and (3) the 
addition of preservatives. The two former methods result in a greater 
or less diminution of the food value, depending upon the extent of 
adulteration. The latter method does not detract from the total nutrients 
in the milk but it adds substances which, while not active poisons, may, 
when taken in the milk regularly in small amounts, produce deleterious 
results. The specific gravity of the milk is sometimes used as a test of 
its purity, but since removing part of its fat in form of cream raises and 
adding water lowers the specific gravity, one form of adulteration may 
counteract and cover up the other, and thus render this test alone un- 
reliable. 

The flavor of milk is frequently affected by the food eaten by the 
cow. It is a familiar fact that turnips when fed to cows give a peculiar 
taste or flavor to the milk. 

The milk of diseased cows may be very abnormal in composition and 
may be the means of conveying disease. It is well understood that milk 
can act as a carrier of infection, and it is therefore of the greatest im- 
portance that especial care be taken in the dairy to insure the cleanliness 
of milk and to render its exposure to any germs of infectious diseases 
or to impure air of any sort impossible. It should be possible in all largo 
cities, as well as in the smaller cities and country towns, to obtain some 
assurance that the milk received comes from healthy animals and receives 
proper care and attention after being drawn from the cow. This assur- 
ance should be obtained either by the public authorities, by the employ- 
ment of honest reputable dealers, or by personal inspection and examina- 
tion. The subject of the control and examination of the milk supply is 
treated at further length in Farmers' Bulletin No. 42 of this Department. 



408 THE baker's BOOKb 

NUTRITIVE VALUE OF fllLK. 

Milk IS peculiarly adapted for use as a food by man for several rea- 
sons. It contains all of the four classes of nutrients — protein, fats, car- 
bohydrates, and mineral matter in more nearly the proper proportion to 
serve as a complete food than any other food material, although no one 
substance can furnish a complete food for an adult for reasons referred 
to beyond. It is in a form well adapted for varied uses either alone or 
more especially in combination with other food substances and in the 
preparation of various dishes for the table. Its use is already considered 
indispensable in many such cases and it might profitably be used in many 
more. At the price ordinarily paid for milk in our large cities it is a 
food of reasonable cheapness, and at the prices prevailing in small cities 
and country towns it is an economical food, 

DIQESTIBILITV OF MILK. 

In general, milk ranks as a very digestible food, but when we come 
te speak more definitely as to its digestibility there are difficulties of two 
kinds. One of these has to do with what is understood by the term 
digestibility ; the other has to do with the differences of different persons 
in respect to their powers of digestion. 

CREAM. 

When the globules of fat rise in the milk, they entangle among them 
a considerable amount of milk which is removed with the fat as cream. 
Cream is thus the butter fat of the milk with some protein and carbohy- 
drates due to the intermixed milk, and contains on the average about 
four and one-half times the amount of fat contained in an equal volume 
of milk. The amount of protein and of carbohydrates is slightly less than 
in the whole milk. The fuel value of a pint of cream is not far from 
1425 calories, or about the same as ij^ pounds of bread, or ij^ dozen 
bananas, or 4j/^ pounds of potatoes. Four quarts of whole milk would 
not furnish quite as much energy (1,300 calories), but would increase 
the protein over six times. It is thus seen that cream is valuable chiefly 
for its heat-giving properties and that the skim milk contains the valuable 
protein. When it is considered that a pint of cream retails at from 12 to 
25 cents, and a pound of butter from 18 to 36 cents, and that the latter is 
worth two and a half times the former as a source of energy, it will be 
seen that cream is not, as a rule, an economical food. 



THE BAKlvKS BOOK. 4O9 



SKin niLK. 



Even after average milk is skimmed it still contains neany lo per 
cent, (one-tenth of its weight) of solids or nutritive ingredients. The 
amount of fat left in skim milk varies greatly with the method of cream- 
ing. Ordinary open shallow pan setting leaves anywhere from one-tentk 
to one-quarter of the original fat of the milk in the skim milk. Deep 
cold setting removes the fat much more completely, so that Cooley skim 
milk has from a trace to three-tenths or four-tenths of one per cent, of 
fat. Separator skim milk has usually less fat than that from deep cold 
setting. It is not far out of the way to say that a pound of skim milk 
contains 0.034 pound protein and has a fuel value of 170 calories or a 
little more protein than the same weight of whole milk and about one- 
half the fuel value. 

At first thought it may be difficult to understand how removing the 
fat increases the amount of protein, but the explanation is simple. One 
pound of whole milk contains on the average 3.3 per cent, or 0.033 pound 
of protein and 4 per cent, or 0.04 pound of fat. If all the fat is re- 
moved, there will be left 0.96 pound of skim milk containing 0.033 pound 
of protein, or about 3.5 per cent., so that i pound of skim milk would 
contain about 0.035 pound of protein. For the same reason there is a 
slightly larger proportion of milk sugar in skim milk than in whole milk. 

The value of skim milk as food is not generally appreciated. Taken 
by itself it is rather "thin*' and, to use a common expression, "does not 
stay by." The reason for this is simple: One has to drink a large 
quantity to get the needed nourishment, and, further, it is so readily 
disposed of that it does not satisfy the sense of hunger. But when taken 
with bread or used in cooking, it forms a very nutritious addition to the 
food. A pound of lean beef (round steak, for example) contains about 
0.18 pound of protein and has a fuel value of 870 calories. Two and a 
half quarts, or 5 pounds, of skim milk will furnish nearly the same 
amount of protein and have about the same fuel value as the pound of 
round steak. Two quarts of skim milk has a greater nutritive value than 
a quart of oysters; the skim milk has 0.14 pound of protein and a fuel 
value of 680 calories, while the oysters contains only 0.12 pound of pro- 
tein and have a fuel value of 470 calories. The nutriment in the form 
of oysters would cost from 30 lo 50 cents, while the 2 quarts of skim 
milk would have a market value of from 4 to 6 cents and a value on the 
fann of from 2 to 4 cents. An oyster stew made of one part oysters and 



410 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

two parts skim milk would owe its nutriment more to the milk than to the 
oysters. Bread made with skim milk would contain more protein than 
when made with water. 

The ingredient of our food which costs the most, has the greatest 
physiological value, and is most apt to be lacking in ordinary dietaries, 
is protein. Skim milk has nearly all the protein of the whole milk. By 
the removal of the fat in the cream it loses half its fuel value, but prac* 
tically none of the protein. What is left has all the value of the whole 
milk for building and repair of tissue, for the making of blood and 
muscle and bone, and half the value of whole milk for supplying heat and 
muscular power. When these facts are fully understood, skim milk will 
doubtless be more wisely utilized. The ways in which a skillful cook can 
utilize skim milk in cooking are almost endless and the protein thus added 
to the daily ration is of the utmost importance. 

A recent report of the Maine Station says in effect that the value 
of skim milk as a food is not generally appreciated. Taken by itself 
it is "rather thin/' and one has to drink a large quantity to get the 
needed nourishment. Further, it is so readily assimilated that it does 
not long satisfy the sense of hunger. But when taken with bread or 
used in cooking it is a valuable food material. A pound of lean beef 
contains about 0.18 pound of protein or nitrogenous material, whose 
principal function is the formation of tissue (especially muscle) and has 
a fuel value (which is taken as a measure of the energy it will produce) 
of 870 calories. Two and one-half quarts or five pounds of skim milk will 
furnish the same amount of protein and have nearly the same fuel value 
as a pound of round steak. Two quarts of skim milk has a greater nutritive 
value than a quart of oysters. This amount of skim milk will contain 0.41 
pounds of protein and has a fuel value of 680 calories, while the oysters 
contain only 0.12 pound of protein and have a fuel value of 470 calories. 

According to a recent report in the journal of the British Dairy 
Farmers' Association, skim milk materially increases the yield of bread 
and consequently the profits in bread making. It was found that 280 
pounds of flour would take up 175 pounds of water in mixing the dough 
and yield 94 loaves, there being a loss of 71 pounds of water during 
baking. The same quantity of flour would take up 210 pounds of skim 
milk and yield no four-pound loaves, the shrinkage during baking in 
this case being 50 pounds. The water bread is said to sell for 10 cents 
and the milk bread for 11 cents per loaf. Assuming that the above 
quantity of skim milk was worth $1.64, the skim-milk bread would yield 
a profit of 86 cents more than the water bread. 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



411 



At its annual show held in London in October, 1899, the association 
conducted tests on the value of skim milk for making scones and pan- 
cakes. The -dough for the scones was made from 14 pounds of American 
flour, 1 1 pounds of sour skim milk, 3 ounces of bicarbonate of soda, and 
3 ounces of cream of tartar. This dough was cut into pieces weighing 
6 ounces, rolled out and baked on a hot iron plate, yielding 25 pounds of 
scones. The mixture for pancakes was similar in composition, but thin- 
ner, 14 pounds of flour being mixed with 16 pounds of skim milk and the 
same amount of leavening material as before. This batter was cooked 
on a hot greased plate, yielding 30 pounds of cakes, there being prac- 
tically no evaporation in baking. The large amount of skim milk utilized 
in proportion to the flour is noteworthy. If the scones and cakes are 
sold, the skim milk has practically the same commercial value as the 
flour, since very nearly equal quantities of the two materials were used. 

The Maine Station has recently studied the comparative value of 
bread made with water and with skim milk. The average composition of 
the two sorts of bread was found to be as follows : 



COMPOSITION OF BREAD MADE WITH WATER AND WITH SKIM MILK. 



Kind of Bread. 






K 



c9 



I 



< 






« Mm 



Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Per ccm. Calories. 

Water bread 39.44 8.93 1.07 49.69 0.87 2,694 

Skim milk bread 37.97 9.98 .94 4982 1.29 2,710 



It will be seen that the bread made with skim milk contains about 
I per cent, more protein than that made with water. 

Experiments conducted in Switzerland some years ago showed that 
skim-milk bread was quite completely digested, differing little from 
other bread in this respect. The Maine Station compared the two kinds 
of bread by digesting them with a pepsin solution. It was found that 
they differed very little, somewhat over 94 per cent, being digested in 
each case. 

It thus appears that the skim-milk bread contains more protein 
than water bread, and is as completely digested as the latter. 

The Maine Station points out the fact that the use of skim milk in 
bread making utilizes a valuable waste product of the dairy, and calls 



412 THE baker's BOOK. 

attention to other profitable uses which may be made of it in the house- 
hold, as follows: 

In the preparation of soups, such as potato, celery, tomato, green 
pea, and green corn soups; fish, lobster, clam, and oyster chowders, 
bisques and stews, skim milk will (satisfactorily) replace the whole milk 
that the directions for preparing usually call for. Skim milk makes as 
good white soups as whole milk. Bread mixed with skim milk is more 
nutritious than that made with water. All kinds of quick biscuits, griddle 
cakes, etc., can be made with skim milk as well as with whole milk. In 
most kinds of cake skim milk will be found a perfect substitute for whole 
milk. If the skim milk is sour, so much the better for cake and quick 
bread making, as only half the cream of tartar* called for in the receipt 
will be needed. 



SKin niLK IN BREAD flAKINQ. 

It is a common practice to use more or less milk in mixing bread 
dough, since it is believed that the quality of the bread is thereby im- 
proved, says C. F. Langworthy. Frequently skim milk is used instead of 
whole milk. Doubtless comparatively few persons realize that skim 
milk has a fairly high food value and that its use makes bread more 
nutritious, in addition to improving its quality. It must be remembered 
that when the cream is removed the milk is deprived of only one of its 
constituents, namely, fat. It still contains practically nutritious casein 
and other nitrogenous materials, as well as the sugar and ash originally 
present, in addition to about 0.3 per cent, of fat (good whole milk con- 
tains from 3 to 5 per cent. fat). 

BUTTERMILK. 

Besides skim milk, there is another important by-product resulting 
from the manufacture of butter — namely, buttermilk. In many places 
this is used as a beverage to a considerable extent, and thus used 
furnishes more nutrient than almost any other beverage except whole 
milk and skim milk, unless it be cocoa and chocolate. To many persons 
buttermilk is much more palatable than whole milk or skim milk. The 
average composition of buttermilk is quite similar to that of skim milk, 

*The addition of baking soda gives good results; no cream of tartar is then 
needed. — E. B. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 4I3 

though it contains slightly less protein and sugar and a very little more 
fat. The fuel value is almost the same, about 165 calories per pint. An 
ordinary glass of buttermilk would contain as much nourishment as half 
a pint of oysters, or 2 ounces of bread, or a good sized potato. 

Buttermilk represents the milk that was entangled among the globules 
of fat as the cream was separated from the milk. During the manu- 
facture of butter from cream the fat globules are brought together and 
removed, leaving the buttermilk. Buttermilk is thus seen to be practically 
the same thing as skim milk, only as a rule it is sour, owing to the cream 
being soured before churning. 



niLK IN POWDERED FORH. 

Prepared for the ** Baker's Book'' by 

J. H. CAMPBELL^ PH. D. 

For more than fifty years efforts have been made by the scientists 
of nearly all the civilized countries to separate the water from milk, and 
secure the solids in such condition, that by the simple addition of water 
the milk could be restored with all its original properties unimpaired, 
and unchangeable by time or the extreme variation of climate. 

These efforts proved unsuccessful for many years. A proportion 
of the water could be readily removed, but when concentrated to about 
one-sixth of its original bulk the pasty condition of the mass rendered 
it unmanageable and complete dessication became impossible without 
subjecting it to such a high temperature that the character of 
the product was completely changed, rendering it insoluble, incapable of 
coagulation by rennet and reducing the digestibility by pepsin. The 
nearest approach to dessication was condensed milk. A dry product 
seemed impossible without the sacrifice of all the valuable constituents 
of milk except the casein, and this was preserved only in an altered form 
after treatment with acids and alkalies which thoroughly changed its 
character and impaired its nutritive qualities. 

Joseph H. Campbell, Ph. D., a native of Pennsylvania, but for years 
a resident of New York City, who has spent a great deal of time in the 
study of the petroleum products, turned his attention to organic chemistry 
some time ago, devoting himself especially to the products of the dairy. 

The development of the dairy interests of this country has reached 
enormous proportions. The butter industry is largely being concen- 



414 



THE BAKEK S BOOK. 



trated at creaineri«s, and in most cases the best of the milk is wasted. 
If the milk could be utilized so as to recover the solids in a dry, soluble, 
sterilized, and truly peptogenic condition, the product at half the price 
of butter per pound would be more valuable than the butter interest 
itself, as the milk would yield but four pounds of butter to the lOo 
pounds of milk, while the solids would furnish nine pounds of the dry 
powder, and the annual value would run into hundreds of millimis of 
dollars, creating a new industry exceeding in value the wheat crop of 
the United States. 

But even more than this was realized that the recovery of the solids 
of milk in a dry condition would furnish milk to the tropical regions 
where it was heretofore unobtainable; would permit an addition to the 
rations of the soldier and the sailor in the most convenient form, with 
the least possible waste ; would furnish properly balanced rations to 
all classes at the cheapest rate, and would be a general boon to humanity 




If. — Contentrator StnnD, Sbowing SlcriliiJns Vat and Fmr Conmitnton. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



415 



in maintaining: vigorous normal heaJth, allaying suffering, promoting 
longevity, and reducing infant mortality. 

The process of development was slow ; difficulties were presented 
at every turn, some of which for a time seemed insurmountable. But 
after nearly three years of labor and expenditure of nearly one-half 
million dollars success crowned the efforts, and powdered milk, or 
XUTRIUM, as it is known, became a reality, and its manufacture is now 
a flourishing industry, fully protected by Letters Patent of the United 
States and other countries. 

The views herewith presented show the various stages through which 
the milk passes at one of the mills of the National Nutrient Company 
preparatory to its shipment to their Jersey City, N, ]., plant, where it 
is ground, bolted and packed. In this plant there are four of the largest 
pebble mills in the world used in grinding the granules. The finished 
product resembles fine wheat flour in appearance, and is packed suitable 
for transportation to all parts of the world. 




far Waikint Same 



4l6 THE baker's BCK)K. 

In one view is showTi the copper, tin-lined, concentrating vessels. 
The milk is pumped into a large round copper, tin-lined, vessel where it 
is agitated and heated by sterilized air blasts preparatory to its being 
pumped into the four (4) rectangular concentrating vessels. These 
concentrating tanks are provided with a circulating medium of hot water 
surrounding them, and coils in their interior. They are also provided 
with pipes and fan shaped nozzles for the introduction of sterilized air 
below the surface of the milk. This air is under pressure and is allowed 
to escape when the tanks are filled with milk, and causes the water to 
be driven off in vapor, and giving to the milk a violent rolling motion, 
greater than if boiling. The milk is thus renduced to about one-sixth 
of its original volume. As the product becomes concentrated the tem- 
perature is lowered. The opening of a valve permits the milk (how in 
a pasty condition) to fall into the large roller drums with tapered ends 
shown in another cut, and which are located on the first floor. These 
roller drums are tin-plated and are perfectly smooth on the inside, with 
cone-shaped ends. An air blast is then introduced into the head of the 
drum, the latter revolving about two turns per minute, carries the pasty 
product up on its sides, and as it approaches the top it falls back through 
the dried atmosphere; the air thus carries away the moisture. This 
paste soon becomes too heavy to be carried up by the revolving of the 
drums and rolls into a large mass, the cone-shaped ends cause it to 
move unequally, twisting and grinding it into small particles. These are 
then conveyed to the drier drums, where the dessication is completed. 

The drier drums have a novel construction. Sterilized air is forced 
through a central shaft having lateral arms extending down into the 
mass, where the constant rolling of the drums exposes all parts to the 
dessicating air. When the product is dry it is then conveyed to a grinder, 
which reduces it to irregular granules about the size of wheat grains. 

One of the offices of powdered milk is to cheaply furnish other 
foods with the protein in which they are deficient, thus restoring the 
balance which is essential to health. 

The successful reduction of milk to the form of powder is an achieve- 
ment of much importance to the baker, confectioner, and ice cream manu- 
facturer, and particularly to those engaged in the business in a large 
way. They are enabled to secure their milk supply without any possi- 
bility of interruption and at a much lower cost : this latter is due to the 
fact that NUTRIUM can be shipped and handled so much more 
economically than can the milk in its original liquid form, that is, the 
price being regulated largely by the available amount of the product, 



TII£ BAKERS BOOK. 4I7 

and the advent of NUTRIUM making it possible to transport milk to 
any distance without any danger of its becoming rancid, naturally gives 
to the great centres of population a much larger territory from which 
to draw their milk supply. Another item that it would not do to lose 
sight of in accounting for the difference in price, is. that NUTRIUM 
I>eing in a dry imperishahle form, there is no expense for ice to keep 
it fit for human consumption. 




4i8 THE baker's book. 

Because of the conditions surrounding the handling and production 
of liquid milk it is particularly exposed to contamination, furnishing, 
as it does, an ideal pabulum for the multiplication of the bacteria which 
gain access to it, while, on account of its color and opacity, it retains a 
delusive appearance of purity. The dangers attendant upon the use 
of liquid milk, unless it is thoroughly sterilized, are so apparent that 
it seems hardly necessary to go into the matter in detail, but a few 
short remarks on the subject may not be out of order. To large con- 
sumers of milk the proposition that they first thoroughly sterilize all 
the milk they use before mixing it with any of their products, would 
be an astounding one, and no wonder ; it would necessitate an increased 
expense for a plant in which to do this sterilizing, his labor account would 
be increased, for intelligent labor would have to be employed in this 
plant, superintended by a competent man in this line; in fact, the in- 
creased expense would be so great that it is practically impossible for a 
baker, confectioner, or ice cream manufacturer, to use liquid milk, and 
have it freed from the impurities with which it is infected, for no matter 
how carefully the milk is collected, nor how sanitary the conditions sur- 
rounding its handling, the very nature of the product makes it peculiarly 
subject to contamination. Even supposing this milk has been sterilized, 
it will keep in such condition but a very short time if exposed to the 
air and the expense for refrigerating accommodations is another item 
that should not be forgotten. And worse than all, the character of the 
milk, by any known method of sterilization is materially altered, and to 
such a degree that it cannot be used for many purposes. 

These facts regarding the danger of using unsterilized liquid milk 
apply of course to the milk used in the household, and, in fact, more 
so, for while a large consumer may to a certain extent dictate to his 
milk man the care to be taken in handling his milk, and may even em- 
ploy a man to see that every care is taken in the production, handling, 
and transportation, it is not possible for the small consumer and the 
head of each family to do this. 

This powdered milk, or NUTRIUM, is sold in three grades, that 
is, containing different percentages of cream, which is another point of 
great convenience, as it enables the consumer to get just what percent- 
age of cream he may need, that is, in some products he may need a 
milk with a greater percentage than is necessary in others, for instance, 
in making bread, as gjeat a percentage of cream would not be necessary 
in the making of fancy cakes. 

The product containing the least amount of butter fat or cream 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 4I9 

is sold on the market under the trade name of NUTRIUM. This product, 
like all the others, is absolutely pure, free from all the impurities to 
which the liquid milk is subject, containing all the non-fatty solids of 
the milk, and a percentage of the fatty solids, or the cream. For bread 
making this product is recommended by the patentee, for the non-fatty 
solids, and not the butter fat, is what the bread maker needs. 

The product next in line, as to the amount of cream contained, is 
sold as "B-5," and contains all the non-fatty solids of the milk, together 
with a larger percentage of the fatty solids. This product, on account 
of the increased amount of butter fat, or cream, is more suitable for 
making fillings for custard pies, in the making of the fancy cakes, and 
ice cream, and wherever a product with a fair amount of cream is 
needed. 

Cream Granules, or B-20, as it is known by the trade, contains a 
very much larger percentage of butter fat, or cream. This grade of 
NUTRIUM, while it may be used in all branches of the baking, con- 
fectionery, and ice cream business, is especially suited to the making of 
very fine ice cream, milk-chocolate, and is used by some bakers for. cus- 
tards, instead of the B-5. In explanation of this preference we would 
say that custard may be made with different qualities of milk, so in 
deciding which product would be the most suited to his use the baker 
takes into consideration his own peculiar needs. 

Another point that it seems to the writer would be interesting to 
the milk consumer is, that these products are not recovered from three 
diflFerent grades of milk, but from one grade, and that is, the ordinary 
milk of commerce. 



THE baker's book. 



Wheat. 



Structure. — The wheat grain (Fig. ii8) is a small oval seed, which 
can be easily thrashed from (he stalk on which it grows. Its six outer 
layers are known to ihe miller as the bran. Of these, the three outermost 
form what is called the skin of the grain and constitute 3 per cent., by 
weight, of the entire seed. The three remaining layers of the bran form 



B— siiithd: 

C-Gluwn C*l 
D~Inncr Coal 
E-T«ii, C..1 
*F-Endocifp 
C.-Epicarp 
H-Epidtrmi. 




Pig. iiS— Kernel of When. 

the envelope of the sec<l proper. The outer one is known as the "testa." 
and contains the greater part of the coloring matter of the bran. Inside 
it lies a thin layer of membrane. These two together form 2 per cent., 
by weigbt, of the entire grain. The innermost layer of the bran, called 
the cereal or aleurone layer, is made up of rectangular cells, filled with a 
nitrogenous substance known as cerealin or aleurone. Its weight is 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 421 

about 8 per cent, of that of the entire grain, making the total weight of 
the bran about 13 per cent. In milling it is exceedingly difficult to 
separate these three inner layers of the bran. Within the cerealin layer 
lies the endosperm, as the portion of the grain adjacent to the embryo is 
called, which constitutes the larger part of the grain and consists of 
irregular shaped cells containing starch granules. At the lower end of 
the grain, almost surrounded by the endosperm, lies the germ of embryo. 
A portion of the embryo is called the scutellum. This serves a special 
purpose in germination. When the grain has thoroughly ripened and 
has been placed in favorable conditions, this embryo will develop into 
a new plant ; as it begins to grow it will feed upon the starch and other 
substances in the endosperm. 

Composition. — The five outer layers of the bran contain very little 
except cellulose, a woody, fibrous substance forming the cell walls. 
When burned, the ash of bran is found to contain a fairly large pro- 
portion of phosphoric acid, potash, and small amounts of other mineral 
matters. The cereal layer is, of all parts of the grain, the richest in 
nitrogenous substances, the chief of which is the cerealin from which it 
takes its name. The endosperm contains, besides the cellulose of its 
cell walls, large quantities of starch, a little sugar, and a nitrogenous 
substance known as gluten. The germ contains cellulose, nitrogenous 
substances, sugar, and a very large proportion — 9 to 12 per cent.— of fat. 

Grain, being hygroscopic — that is, having the power of absorbing 
^\'ater from the atmosphere — varies with the weather in the amount of 
moisture which it contains; similarly, wheat grown in a wet season or 
a humid climate holds a larger percentage of moisture than the same 
kind grown under drier conditions. Thus English wheat contains 3 or 
4 per cent, more water than American. From comparison of many 
analyses, the average weight of the water in the grain is found to be 
about 12 or 13 per cent, of its total weight. 

Different kinds of wheat also vary as to the amount and quality of 
gluten which they contain. As gluten is one of the most important 
constituents of the wheat, the baker should know the character of the 
gluten in the flour he uses. The so-called *'hard" wheats are rich in gluten 
of a strong, tenacious character, while **soft" wheats contain less 
gluten and proportionately more starch. The gluten of hard wheat can 
be mixed Vr*ith large amounts of water, and produces a large loaf from 
a comparatively small quantity of flour. Soft wheat, on the other hand, 
while it does not yield so large a loaf, makes a bread containing less 
water, and having a milder and more agreeable flavor. 



4^2 THE baker's BOOK. 

It is useful for those interested in milling to know what parts of 
the grain will be most valuable in yielding a nutritious flour capable 
of making a white, well-raised loaf. In considering the nutritive value 
of flour let us remember the principal kinds of nutrients which the body 
needs: (i) The nitrogenous substances, called protein compounds or 
proteids, typified by the while of egg and the lean of meat, and chiefly 
represented in wheat by the cerealin and the gluten — these are the tissue- 
building materials of our food, though they also furnish energy-; (2) the 
carbohydrates, principally starch and sugars, found mainly in the endo- 
sperm, and serving the body as fuel to produce energy for warmth and 
muscular work; (3) the fats, occurring principally in the germ of the 
grain, and being valuable to the body as fuel, and (4) mineral matters, 
seen in the ash, especially that of the bran, and providing material for 
bones, teeth, etc. We must also bear in mind that it is not only the 
chemical composition of a substance which determines its food value, but 
also the amotmt of nourishment which the digestive organs can extract 
from it — in other words, its digestibility. 

The abundant cellulose in the bran and the coloring matter in the 
testa tend, if left in the flour, to g^ve it a coarse, dark character very 
detrimental to the appearance of the bread. Accordingly, until recently, 
that flour was quite generally considered the best which had the least 
of the bran in it. Lately, however, much stress has been laid on the 
nutritive value of the mineral matters and the cerealin of the bran, con- 
sequently a great effort has been made to get a fine flour which shall 
include the entire wheat grain. Such flour can not produce as white a 
loaf, and, what is still more to the point, it is doubtful whether the cerealin 
is thoroughly digested by the human stomach ; moreover, the sharp, 
rough particles of the cellulose in the bran are said to irritate the mem- 
branes of the alimentary canal and thus to hasten the passage of the food 
through the intestines. This would tend to diminish its digestibility^ 
although it might be advantageous in counteracting a tendency to con- 
stipation. It would seem, then, that the value of bran in flour, unless it 
can be ground more finely tfian at present, is at least questionable. The 
germ, though rich in fat and ash, is also of doubtful value in the flour, 
as it tends to darken the color, and its fat occasionally grows rancid and 
spoils the taste. 

The endosperm is by far the most important contributor to the floun 
Id its sUrch lies the chief nutritive ingredient of bread. The gluten, 
the principal nitrogenous constituent of wheat is called, is equally 
; mixed with water it forms a tenacious, elastic body which 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 423 

expands under the pressure of the gas from the yeast until the dough 
is full of gas-filled holes whose walls of tough gluten do not allow the 
gas to escape, and thus make the dough light and porous. The more 
gluten a flour holds, the more water it can be made to take up in dough, 
and the greater will be the yield in bread from a given amount of flour. 
Hence flours are classified as "strong'' or "weak" according to the pro- 
portion of gluten which they contain and their consequent ability to yield 
bread. Gluten has also a highly nutritive value as an easily digested 
proteid. 



VARIETIES OP WHEAT. 

It is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to state that practically everyone, 
at least among those who handle flour, knows that we produce through- 
out our vast wheat area two great families, or distinct types of wheat, 
namely what are known as winter wheat and spring wheat. As indi- 
cated by the name, one is planted in the fall and grows gradually through- 
out the winter; while the other is seeded early in the spring and ripens in 
the summer. Naturally, therefore, it follows that each of these great 
types is raised most successfully in an entirely different latitude from the 
other. 

It is. perhaps, pretty generally understood by the public at large 
that the winter variety is raised to the best advantage in a climate that 
is not excessively cold in the winter, or, unless the plant is well protected 
by a blanket of snow, it is exposed to the vicissitudes of the weather, and 
yet. strange to say, the best flour producing wheat is not raised in a really 
warm climate. In other words, the most desirable grades of winter 
wheat have recently come from the central west, just west of the Missis- 
sippi river, notably in Missouri, Kansas and Oklahoma and to a moderate 
extent from Texas. Of course, in former years commercial supplies of 
winter wheat came mainly from the older States east of the Mississippi 
river, but naturally as the population in these States increased the area 
devoted to wheat raising was reduced, while living requirements were 
gradually growing. 

Subsequently, and until recently, the commercial supply of winter 



THE BAKEBS BOOK. 




wheat came principally from Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Michigan, not 
to mention California, which does not compete in markets east of the 
Rockv Mountins. but of late the flour States named have been asked in a 
measure to furnish much wheat outside of their own boundaries. 

There are, moreover, two distinct varieties of winter wheat, namely, 
red winter and white winter. The former is by far the more important, 
because of its greater abundance and great popularity among millers. 
The white winter is raised to a moderate extent in middle and eastern 
States, notably in Xew York, but largely in Michigan and California. 
The berry is large and plump and it produces a white and handsome 
appearing flour, but. nevertheless, it is not universally liked by millers. 
U there is generally a preponderance of stock in the flour, and hence an 
^\)ftace of strength, an element most desired by bread bakers, but of 
course, it makes a flour that is useful for pastry, etc. In the red variety 
there are two important sub-divisions, namely, soft and hard winter. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 425 

The soft red is produced largely in the old States east of the Mississippi 
river, but especially in Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, but also in Missouri, 
Kentucky and Texas. In the latter State, however, there is raised a fair 
proportion of hard winter. The soft red produces a white flour of attrac- 
tive appearance, but with a larger percentage of starch than gluten, and 
hence it has not the strength found in the flour made from hard winter. 
It is, therefore, popular for family baking and for making pastry and 
cake. The hard winter grows extensively in Kansas, but recently Okla- 
lioma red produces a white flour of attractive appearance, and a fair 
quantity has also been produced in Texas, as above stated. This wheat 
yie'ds a flour that is slightly darker in color than that from the soft winter 
or the white wheat, but it is a stronger flour, and hence produces a greater 
quantity of bread to the barrel, and it is naturally well liked by bakers 
here and in Europe, especially in the United Kingdom. The white 
wheat raised in California is of good color, but soft and full of starch and 
produced to a considerable extent on irrigated soil and in many instances 
has to be wet before it can be milled successfully. It is generally soft 
and has an abundance of starch which renders it fit largely for pastry 
and familv use. 

In some respects the spring wheat crop has, of late years, been more 
important commercially than the winter, because a comparatively larger 
percentage of it is shipped out of the States in which it is raised. It 
therefore has more influence relatively as a price factor. Moreover, the 
bulk of the spring crop produces a flour that is popular with bakers, both 
in this country and in Great Britain. 

As in winter wheat, there are likewise two kinds of spring wheat 
one soft and the other hard. Similarly, too, the hard spring is preferred 
to the soft, as it produces a strong flour in which there is much gluten 
and of course little starch. It has been found that the best grades of 
hard wheat are raised from new soil and where the winters are long and 
cold. Therefore, the best wheat has come from the *' three big States *' — 
Minnesota and the Dakotas. ♦In the past these three States have contri- 
buted between half and two-thirds of the total spring yield. Formerly 
Minnesota was considered tho home of the finest hard wheat, but recently 
it was found that owing to constant usage the soil was becoming worn 
out, and hence the wheat was growing softer and the flour showing less 
strength. In short, the newer the land the stronger the wheat, and as a 
consequence some fine grades of hard have recently come from the 
Dakotas, especially North Dakota, 



426 



THE BAKES S BOOK. 



Rva 

The grain of rye is darker in color than that of wheat, but is other- 
wise similar io appearance. It differs, however, in one important par- 
ticular — its gluten has not the same elastic, tenacious quality and does 
not yield so light and well-raised a loaf. Although this fact that its dark 
color makes it less desirable than wheat flour, it is second in importance 
as a breadstuff. It is more easily cultivated than wheat, especially in cold 
countries, and consequently costs less. In many parts of Europe it 
practically replaces wheat among the poor and in the rations furnished the 
army. When it is milled entire, as it usually is, it contains more protein 
than wheat flour, but is probably less completely digested. Wheat and 
rye flour are often used together in bread. 



CORN, OR MAIZE. 



This cereal, commonly known to us as Indian com, and on the Con- 
tinent of Europe as maize, or Turkish wheat, is a native of America. 




THE baker's book. 427 

It is commonly grown in North and South America, northern Africa, 
India, and southern Europe, especially Italy and the Balkan regions, and 
is slowly being introduced into other European countries. The skin of 
the kernel is thin and tender, the endosperm abundant, white, and mealy, 
the germ comparatively large. See Fig. 120. The kernels are generally 
white or yellow. Compared with wheat, maize is rich in fat, poorer in 
cellulose and protein, and about equal in carbohydrates, mineral matters, 
and moisture. Most of its fat is in the embryo or germ, which is often 
removed in milling to prevent the flour or meal becoming rancid. Maize 
flour makes very nutritious and appetizing unleavened bread, hoecake. 
johnnycake, etc. but this dries so quickly that it must be eaten fresh. 
Maize flour contains no tenacious gluten-like proteid, and therefore can 
not be used alone to produce a good loaf raised with yeast. Much corn 
bread and other foods made from corn meal are eaten in the United 
States. In Italy corn-meal mush, or "polenta,'' as it is called, forms the 
principal article of diet of the peasants in large districts throughout a 
considerable part of the year. In Scrvia the unripe com is eaten much 
as we use it, and corn-meal bread and mush are staple articles of diet. 



MUMMY WHEAT. 



The Practical Confectioner ami Baker says that French bakers and 
millers have been following the interesting and practical experiments 
of M. Maspero, the celebrated Egyptologist, with great interest. He 
recently delivered a lecture on the seeds and plants found in Egyptian 
sepulchres, and dating from 4,000 years before our era. He stated, for 
instance, that there was nothing authentic in the legend of grains or bar- 
ley or wheat known as **Mummy grain,** raised from seeds found in the 
said tombs. Alphonse de Candolle did not believe either in *'Pharaohic 
wheat," derived from grain 5.000 years old. They could not have re- 
tained any germinative faculty. M. Gain has tested the alleged experi- 
ment of the Comte de Sternberg, who claims the origin of the legend, 
having made two grains of "mummy wheat*' germinate — all a mistake. 
M. Gain affirms that the samples of mummy wheat which he has ex- 
amined presented, exteriorly, nothing very remarkable; the color was 
reddish black; the cellules secured intact, but each cell had undergone a 
chemical change, attesting that all germs were dead since a long time. 
The embryon had undergone a complete transformation, too. So ends 
the controversy relating to the germinative faculties of so-called "mum- 
my wheat." 



7H1:- tAltm i BWfK. 



BARLEV AND OATS. 

IVw cereal* ar« k* »e]'V.«n ated in brtai) tbat a short descriptioa of 
lh«n will •uffiw. In %mKrA *tniaore ihrir grains are not unUke those 
ol viiickt ; ifi t^arlfv lh»r ^/r'^nini'jn of ibe bran to the entire grain is 




•bom ai to 79, ill (.41) 44 (o 66; the percentage of moisture in them is 
much lower thin in wheat : their gluten is even less tenadoos than that 
of ry«; lht>uch flour» uiadc (roni them without bran contain a high pro- 
IMUlton of uuiritivr tngT«4.1ients. they also conuin a large amoont of 
lihlt|t«Mthlc cvllulivie aiul arv ijuite unsuited to vield a light. attractiTe 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 429 



THE '•MANNA" OP THE DESERT. 

In a recent number of La Nature is an interesting note by Mr. 
Henry Castroy on the manna of the desert, which played such an im- 
portant part in the history of the Jews. At the present day Arabs who 
are compelled to traverse the sandy desert wastes of Arabia not only feed 
their camels upon this little known food, but also consume it themselves. 
The **manna'' is really a fungus, the thallophyte, either canona esculenta 
or lichen esculcntus. The fungus is very abundant and is found upon 
the sand after every rain, sometimes in great mounds or heaps. It is 
of a gray color and is about the size of a pea. It breaks with a mealy 
fracture and the taste is rather agreeable and somewhat sweet. The 
analysis shows that the fungus has the following composition : 

Per cent. 

Water i6 

Nitrogenous matter 14 

Xon-nitrogenous matter 29 

Carbohydrates 32 

Fat 4 

Mineral matter 5 

The analysis demonstrates the fact that the manna, while not a com- 
plete food in the strict sense of the term, is still rich in certain kinds of 
food material and it is capable of sustaining life for a time. 



BREAD FRUIT TREES. 



Of the various trees that produce fruit which is used as a staple 
article of food by man may be mentioned those of the genus Artocarpus 
(a word meaning "bread fruit*') of tropical countries. 

The bread fruit tree (Artocarpus incisa) of the southern part of 
Asia and the South Sea Islands bears a roundish fruit of the size of a 
melon, rough on the exterior, marked with hexagonal knobs, and of a 
green color. The pulp of the interior is whitish and of the consistence 
of new bread. It is roasted before it is eaten, but has little flavor. The 
best varieties contain no seeds, the tree being propagated by shoots that 
spring from the roots. 



4y^ THE baker's book. 



Grades of Flour. 

From an article by Professor H. W. Wiley, in the American Grocer. 

The different grades of flour are based more upon their color and 
general appearance than upon their nutritive properties. It often hap- 
pens that low-grade flours — that is, those which make a rather off-colored 
bread — are more nutritious than the highest grade and whitest flours, 
which make the whitest bread when judged by chemical data alone. A 
great many people prefer a delicate cream tint to the flour and bread 
rather than a product which is pure white. One of the largest milling 
firms in Minnesota writes me that the highest grade flour which it makes 
is used for the family trade, being what is called a patent spring w^heat 
flour, used largely in the Northwest, and corresponding to the winter 
wheat patent flour used in the Southern States. The next grade produced 
is called high-grade bakers' flour, used extensively by bakers in this coun- 
try, and also exported in large quantities to Great Britain and Holland. 
The lowest grade of flour produced is known as red dog flour, which is 
useil largely for feetling domestic animals. 

Anoiher miller writes as follows: 

**\\*e are sending you one and one-half pounds each of our patent, 
family and bakers' flour. Each of these flours is what is commonlv known 
as a blended flour. Thev are the result of careful consideration and ex- 
jMfriments by us. for the purix^se of producing a patent and a family 
flour thai will ciMulune strength and the quality of retaining moisture of 
spring wheat flour and the sweetness and tenderness of the winter wheat. 

"The flour is manufacturevi from choice, selected hard spring wheat 
and from several kinds of winter wheat of the finest quality obtainable 
from various sections of the ci'iuntry, sdid is combined in such proportions 
to product a flour which will fulfil we believe, the requirements of that 
we seeking aft«r 

**The patent pnnluccs a bread that raises well, retains moisture, and 

^k flkt wme time tender and sweet and eminently fitted for a family 

lO be used for the pnxluction of both bread and pastr>- of su- 

■illy; TIk limily flour does not produce as white a loaf of 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 43 1 

bread as the patent, but is in other respects like the patent. The bakers' 
or low-grade flour is a dark family flour, which is to-day very largely 
used by the people who desire a sweet, nutritious and palatable loaf of 
bread at a low price, without regard to the fact that it is not as white as 
the bread to which they have been accustomed in better times. 

**I am not sure that you desired information as fully as the above, 
but feel that we are sending you a set of samples practically unique in 
their line, which will produce results, in the hands of a good baker, that 
are surprising." 



FLOURS WITH SPECIAL NAMES. 

In looking over the names of the flours which have been analyzed, 
we find that there are many which have special names. Graham flour is 
a term which was originally applied to the coarse, unbolted flour which 
was made by crushing the whole wheat. Strictly speaking, the term gra- 
ham flour should convev the idea of a flour made from well-cleaned and 
dusted wheat, ground but not bolted. Flours, however, are often sold as 
graham flour in which the bolting process has been carried to a greater 
or less extent. The true graham flour would contain practically the same 
substances as the wheat kernel itself, and in the same proportions. 

Entire Wheat Flour. — This name would naturally carry the idea of a 
flour corresponding to the graham flour above. It is, however, a trade- 
mark for the flour produced in a special manner, by grinding the whole 
wheat after the removal of the outer coverings. It therefore contains all 
of the ingredients of the wheat grain, save those which are found in the 
outer coverings. 

Gluten Flour. — This is the name of a product which is sold very ex- 
tensively, and which is supposed often by purchasers to contain no 
starch. From the analysis made this is found to be a very g^ave error. 
The gluten flour is probably a flour made from those portions of the en- 
dosperm lying nearer to the exterior of the grain, and which are known to 
contain a larger quantity of proteid matter than the interior portions. 

It is well that we should not be deceived bv the trade names of the 
flours which are offered for sale. As is seen above, the ideas which the 
name of the flour conveys are not always realized in the article itself. 
It is quite important, if we wish to know the nature of a flour without 
making a chemical examination thereof, that the actual steps which have 
been followed in its preparation be traced and the character of the 



43^ THE baker's book. 

cereal employed be known. Experts may be able to tell the difference 
between the soft wheat and hard wheat flours, or even between blended 
flours, but ordinary purchasers usually rely upon the grocer or upon the 
name for the information in regard to the flour which they desire. 



PROPERTIES AFFECTINQ THE COMHERCIAL VALUE OF FLOUR. 

Aside from its nutritive properties, wheat flour has a commercial 
value depending upon its color and texture and upon the quantity of 
gluten which it contains. The character of the gluten also varies largely 
in different varieties of wheat and in wheat grown in different localities. 
The gluten of the hard spring wheats appears to have the best properties 
for baking purposes, but it cannot be denied that the very best bread in 
the world is made from the soft winter wheat of France. The method 
of manipulating the loaf, of fermentation, and of baking must therefore 
be admitted to have quite an important bearing upon the constitution of 
the finished loaf. It general, however, a flour is sold almost exclusively 
with regard to its relative appearance with other flours, and its color, as 
very few purchasers make a test of the quantity of gluten contained. 



PREFERENCE OF BAKERS A5 TO FLOUR. 

Bakers prefer a flour with a high percentage of tenacious gluten, 
which permits of the formation of a loaf containing a maximum percent- 
age of water. With a flour rich in gluten it is possible to get a good 
palatable loaf, without any evidence of excess of water, containing as 
high as 40 per cent, of moisture. 

The baking of bread is an art which is most successfully practiced 
by professionals, and the American method of home bread-making is 
not to be too highly commended. The ideal flour for bread-making is 
one which contains a sufficient quantity of gluten to produce a porous and 
spongy loaf, but not one which permits an excessive quantity of moisture 
to be incorporated in the loaf itself. 

Flours differ not only in the quantity of gluten in them, but also in its 
qualities. Some varieties of wheat furnish a gluten which is more tena- 
cious than others, and thus produce, of course, a more desirable flour. 
In practice, however, where the best methods of bread-making are fol- 
lowed, it cannot be said that the hard spring wheats afford a better variety 
of bread than the soft winter wheats. The excellent character of the 



,f 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 433 

French bread above referred to is an evidence of the fact that the soft 
winter wheats are capable, with proper manipulation, of furnishing as 
high a grade of bread as is desirable. 



TYPICAL AMERICAN FLOURS. 

From a careful study of the data obtained it is possible to arrive at a 
correct idea of the composition of typical American flours of the classes 
indicated above.. 



HIQH-ORADE PATENT FLOUR. 

A high-grade American patent flour has, approximately, the follow- 
ing composition : 

Per cent. 

Moisture 1 2.75 

Proteids ( N X 6.25 ) 10.50 

Proteids (NX 5.70) 9.50 

Moist gluten 26.00 

Dry gluten 10.00 

Ether extract 1.00 

Ash 0.50 

Carbohydrates ( X X 6.25 ) 75-25 

Carbohydrates (XX 5.70 ) 7625 

Crude fibre 0.20 



COnnON MARKETS WHEAT FLOUR. 

It is evident that flours commonly placed uix)n the market in bulk 
in any given locality will vary in composition according to the composition 
of the wheat from which they are made and the kind of milling process 
by which they are produced. If the flours in any given locality are formed 
from the wheats of the neighborhood, they would evidently partake of 
the character of those varieties of wheat. It is probable that as a whole, 
the flours which are exposed for sale in a market like that of Washing- 
ton will be representative of the flours of the whole country, as very little 
of the local supply comes from the wheat grown in the vicinity. The 
data obtained, therefore, from the analysis of a large number of samples 
ix)ught in the open market may be relied upon as giving a fair indication 



434 THE baker's book. 

of what a typical common market bulk flour is. The composition of such 
a typical flour, as indicated by the data, is approximately as follows : 

Per cent. 

Moisture 12.25 

Proteids (N X 6.25) 10.20 

Proteids (N X 5.70) 9.30 

Moist gluten 24.50 

Dry gluten 9.25 

Ether extract 1.30 

Ash 0.06 

Carbohydrates (N X 6.25) 75.65 

Carbohydrates (N X 5.70) 7655 

Crude fibre 0.30 

BAKER5* Fi.0UR5. 

The typical American flour which is sold under the name of bakers* 
flour, and which, as a rule, is regarded as somewhat inferior to the high- 
grade patent flours,* has a composition which, as determined by the 
analysis made, is approximately represented by the following numbers: 

Per cent. 

Moisture 1 1-75 

Proteids (N X 6.25) 12.30 

Proteids (NX 5.70) ' 1 1.20 

Moist gluten 3470 

Dry gluten 1310 

Ether extract i .30 

Ash 0.60 

Carbohydrates (N X 6.25) 7405 

Carbohydrates (N X 5.70) 75-15 

Crude fibre 0.20 

Again we are struck here with the practically identical composition 
of the bakers' flours with the high-grade patent flours. The chief differ- 
ences ate found in the fact that the bakers' flours are drier, containing 
about I per cent, less moisture. They have, too, a distinctly higher per- 
centage of proteids as compared with the high-grade flours, due to the 
fact, doubtless, that large quantities of the outer part of the kernels enter 
into the composition of these flours. The quantities of gluten are more 
than correspondingly increased, which indicates that the glutenous heart 

♦The author of thit work refers to article " Baker's Flour," pa^e 45a. 



THE baker's book. 435 

of the proteids tends to accumulate in flours of this character, and this i» 
due to the nature of the milling process and to the separation of the vari- 
ous parts of the wheat kernel. The quantity of ether extract is also 
higher than in the high-grade flours, showing a less perfect degermina- 
tion of the grain during the milling process. The ash is also slightly 
higher than in the high-grade flours, while the carbohydrates are some- 
what lower, duo to the higher percentage of proteids. 

In a general comparison of bakers' flours with high-grade patent 
flours it is seen that the nutritive ratio is much narrower in the bakers' 
flour, and the percentage of proteids higher. Judged by the^ common 
theories of nutrition, therefore, the bakers* flour would make a bread 
better suited to the laboring man, while the high-grade patent flours would 
form a bread with a greater tendency to produce fat and animal heat. 

niSCELLANEOUS FLOURS. 

In Class IV wheat flours have been collected of the miscellaneous 
samples, which, by reason of their names or descriptions, were not 
capable of classifications with the three preceeding grades of flours. These 
flours largely represent the product of small mills, and are derived from 
the most diversified sources. As would be expected, they show among 
themselves a considerable degree of variation, although the mean com- 
position does not differ very greatly from that of the previously described 
grades. The typical flour of this miscellaneous class, judged by the data 
which have been obtained, will have the approximate composition : 

Per cent. 

Moisture 12.75 

Proteids ( N X 6.25) 10.30 

Proteids (N X 5.78) 9.35 

Moist gluten 26.80 

Dry gluten 10.20 

Ether extract 1.05 

Ash 0.50 

Carbohydrates (N X 6.25) 75-30 

Carbohydrates (N X 5.70) 7625 

Crude fibre 0.25 

The important feature of such a typical flour is its almost exact 
identity, from a commercial point of view, with the high-grade patent 
flours. The averages of the two classes are so nearly alike that they 



43^ THE baker's IKK)K. 

could be interchanged with each other with no appreciable modification 
of chemical composition. This fact emphasizes in a most marked degree 
a point which has been brought out in the previous discussions, viz., that 
the commercial value of flour depends almost exclusively upon the na- 
ture of the milling process and upon the color and general appearance 
of the flour, and has little or nothing to do with nutritive properties. 

WHAT IS GLUTEN? 

Gluten is the spinal column of the cereal g^oup, or, more fancifully, 
it is the Prince of Proteids in the household of Cerelia, says Professor 
N. C. Parshall. These metaphors express at once the paramount im- 
portance which this chief element of the edible grains possesses in the 
dietary of man. Not onlv is it the backbone of the cereal class, but also 
of every minute seed that grows among the wild grasses, from which 
really our cereals sprang, and that gives the bird its power of wing and 
tissue and tunes its vocal lays. It stands related to the vegetable king- 
dom as does albumen to the animal kingdom. Gluten has also been 
termed by a happy turn of thought **the lean meat of the vegetable 
kingdom.*' 

Without this unique clement in our domestic grains bread making 
would almost be impossible, at least, the bread would be valueless as a 
nutrient, as the residue would comprise mainly starch and water, which, 
though good in their individual directions, are not of themselves able to 
sustain life. It is, therefore, the glutenous principle in wheat and other 
grains which has established them as indispensable food substances for 
nearly all races of men. Especially is this true of the wheat grain, which 
carries gluten in its greatest richness antl perfection, and on this account 
has penetrated to the remotest bounds of civilized and semi-civilized 
nations as the **stafl of life," and is also not unknown and availed of 
bv manv barbaric tribes. 

Gluten is a viscid, tenacious, cohesive substance, found chiefly next 
to the bran coats and in the central portion of the grain, and gives to 
dough adhesive quality and adaptability for the fabrication of bread and 
other household dishes. It is of a grayish color, and when extracted 
from the flour is called crude, or gum gluten, and it may be further 
refined by removing the hard cellulose, or cell walls, that surround the 
gluten granules. The process of isolating the crude gum is comparatively 
simple, it consisting of kneading the flour with water and afterward 
washing it to remove the starch. To procure absolutely pure gluten, 



THE baker's book. 437 

which, of course, would be unsuitable as a regular article of diet, re- 
quires a more elaborate process. No milling device hitherto employed 
has been able wholly to separate the gluten from the starch. This, how- 
ever is readily accomplished in the great starch factories, where, as not 
elsewhere, both the gluten and the starch may be profitably handled as 
separate articles of commerce. 

Gluten is not a definite substance, but is composed chiefly of gliadin, 
glutenin and soluble salts. Different authorities disagree as to the num- 
ber of proteids contained in it — for example: Fitthausen states that by 
extracting gluten with diluted alcohol he obtained three proteids — gluten- 
fibrin, plant-gelatin and muscdin ; but Osborne and \'orhees state in The 
Chemical Journal that only one proteid soluble in dilute alcohol exists — 
viz., gliadin, and one proteid insoluble in dilute alcohol, called glutenin. 

Gliadin has appeared before the scientific world in different states of 
purity and under different names, as plant-gelatin, mucedin. mucin and 
gluten-fibrin. It was first called gliadin by Taddei on account of its 
resemblance to glue. It is soluble in dilute alcohol, but insoluble in abso- 
lute alcohol. It is slightly soluble in cold water, but the presence of 
salts greatly lessens this solubility. It is also soluble in very dilute acids 
and alkalies. In the hydrated condition gliadin is a soft, sticky sub- 
stance. With cold water it acts as a binding material, and makes the 
gluten tough and coherent. 

Glutenin in the pure form is a grayish white, non-sticky mass. On 
drying at loo degrees it fonns a slightly brownish horny material. It oc- 
curs in wheat grain to the extent of 4 to 4.5 per cent. It is insoluble in 
dilute alcohol, wate** and saline solutions, but soluble in dilute acids and 
alkalies. It has appeared under the names of zymom. plant-fibrin, gluten- 
casein and gluten-fibrin. Gluten owes its solidity to the glutenin, which 
forms a nucleus to which the gliadin adheres and thus prevents it being 
washed away. Gluten also contains a slight amount of mineral matter, 
chiefly soluble salts, which prevents the gliadin dissolving. The esti- 
mation of gluten in flour may be effected in several different ways, the 
simplest being to wash the starch away from the flour and weigh the 
residual gluten, but as the results obtained vary with the amount of 
washing, length of time of standing, etc.. it is desirable that the flour 
should be mixed with a certain amount of water, allowed to stand for a 
definite time. etc. \'ariations of this process are given by Allen ("Com- 
mercial Organic Analysis," vol. iv.. page 76) and by Wanklyn and 
Cooper (**Bread Analysis." page 43). In the latter method the authors 
make corrections for the ash (0.3 per cent, on the flour), and for the fat 



438 THE baker's book. 

(one per cent, on the flour). Gluten may be estimated in flours, breads, 
biscuits and other preparations by estimating the total nitrogen, either by 
Kjeldahl's process or by a combustion of a small quantity of the sub- 
stance with copper oxide and then multiplying the percentage of nitrogen 
by 6.33, which gives the percentage of gluten. 

On the principle that vegetable substances generate ammonia when 
subjected to the action of a boiling solution of potash and potassium per- 
manganate, Wanklyn estimates the gluten in flour by a modification of 
his well-known ammonia process in water analysis. L. Reed describes a 
colorimetric method of estimating the gluten in flour based on the prin- 
ciple that nitric acid acts on albuminoids to produce a yellow nitro-com- 
pound. The flour is systematically treated with colorless nitric acid, and 
the color produced is compared with that produced by a standard flour. 

To estimate the starch, convert two grammes of flour v/ith 20 c.c. of 
sulphuric acid and 200 c.c. of water for three or four hours, neutralize the 
liquid with caustic soda, and estimate the sugar by Fehling*s solution, and 
the results give percentage of sugar and starch together, reports Mr. 
Fielden. 

QLUTEN FLOUR. 

Samples of gluten flour have recently come under our notice 
in which starch was present to the extent of fifty per cent., reports 
Maurice Priest and \Vm. Partridge, in Sanitary Record, It is surprising 
to find upon the market a large number of such so-called gluten flours. 

As this is a subject which vitally concerns the health of diabetics, 
and yet receives so little attention from members of the medical pro- 
fession who have the dieting of diabetic persons, we do not wonder that 
many bakers and manufacturers of diabetic foods take advantage of this 
inactivity and place upon the market with impunity forms of diabetic 
food which contain so large a percentage of starch as to be fatal to the 
successful treatment of the disease. 

Patients, too. ignorant of this fact, consume as much as they think 
fit of these fictitious gluten breads, taking it for granted that starch and 
sugar are both absent from the preparations, often doing themselves more 
harm than if they took normal quantities of ordinary bread. 

There appear to be great differences of opinion as to the proper 
definition and composition of gluten bread. Those concerned with its 
manufacture generally state that it is composed solely of gluten, except 
for a little fat which is left in by some methods of preparation. On the 



THE baker's book. 439 

other hand, many medical and chemical authorities on the subject think 
that bread composed entirely of gluten may often be advantageously 
replaced by a preparation retaining one-fifth or one-sixth of the starch 
of the flour incorporated with it. 

Pure gluten bread frequently fails to satisfy the craving which dia- 
betic persons possess for starchy matters which is greatly increased by 
total prohibition of starch, and preparations made solely from gluten are 
in addition hard, brittle, and usually have an unpleasant doughy taste. 
This being so, in cases of mild diabetes, where patients respond to treat- 
ment, gluten breads containing a small percentage of starch might be 
found valuable. 

We see from trade literature that certain manufacturers advertise 
their bread as retaining a certain percentage of the original starch, and 
we think that this praaice might be carried a step further, and different 
grades of bread containing var}'ing amounts of starch should be pre- 
pared, each loaf to possess a label indicating the percentage 
of starch, so that medical men. may alter the composition of the 
diet in accordance with the requirements of the case. But the amount of 
the bread should most certainly be regulated, as harm is done if exces- 
sive amounts, containing even a small proportion of starch, be taken 
by the patient. 

Not only gluten bread, but diabetic foods generally, need revision to 
a large degree, as very erroneous ideas as to the composition of the di- 
ferent foods are prevalent. Cownley points this out in a list of such 
so-called gluten articles, which he showed to contain very varying and 
in most cases large percentages of starch. 

To make a good gluten loaf. Dr. Gordon Sharp advises that the 
flour should be washed until nearly all the starch is removed, and then 
mixed with bran and made into a loaf. He also mentions that oatmeal 
washed for several hours, and then served with cream, will be found a 
valuable article of diet for diabetics. 

For the separation of gluten from flour several processes may be 
resorted to. A centrifugal method is mentioned in Journal, Society Chem- 
ical Industry, 1900, page 918; but the simplest, and perhaps the most 
reliable, is the following: A strong flour is made into a stiff dough, with 
water only, and allowed to stand for nearly an hour, and then carefully 
kneaded in small portions at a time. The starch escapes in a milky 
solution, leaving the gluten behind as a soft, sticky mass. When the 
washing water becomes clear it shows the absence of starch. If the 
gluten be washed in running water it will retain a little fat, but will be 



440 THE baker's book. 

free from starch and sugar. The kneading under water is most con- 
veniently done in muslin bags. 

Gluten is also produced as a waste product in the manufacture of 
starch, but in this case the full value of the gluten is not always obtained. 
The "sour" process is an example of this, which is carried on in the 
following manner: The grains having been coarsely ground, are moist- 
ened with water and allowed to stand for a few days until fermentation 
sets in, when more water is added and the putrefactive fermentation con- 
tinues for several weeks, until all the gluten is dissolved. The latter is 
then washed out of the starch. Obviously here there is some loss of 
gluten, at whose expense the fermentation goes on. 

Another process, which is used chiefly in the case of rice and maize 
grains, is based upon obtaining the solution of gluten in a three per cent, 
solution of caust-ic soda, the starch granules being insoluble, the gluten 
being afterward precipitated by an acid. Gluten is generally baked in 
the form of small rolls or buns, which swell to an enormous extent dur- 
ing baking, and the section of such a loaf shows large empty cavities. 
The proportion of gluten in flours varies from eight to eighteen per cent., 
the average being about twelve per cent. To get a flour rich in gluten the 
soil should contain a sufficient but not excessive amount of nitrogen. A 
hard wheat (yielding a strong flour) contains more gluten than a soft 
wheat. Gluten constitutes a most valuable part of wheat flour and is an 
extremely valuable foodstuflf. As prepared by washing flour till free 
from starch it is an adhesive, sticky, elastic mass, with a brownish or 
grayish tinge, but when freed from water it is translucent and colorless, 
and it is said that about ninety-six per cent, of such gluten is digestible. 

The new li^ht which has in recent years l)een throwli upon the 
physiology of digestion, together with the great food reform move- 
ment which, within the last two decades, has made such rapid and grati- 
fying progress, naturally directed attention more sharply to the cereal 
foods, and more recently still to gluten as the chief constituent of all the 
cultivated grains. It was soon perceived that the cereal group, which 
had theretofore been utilized almost whollv in the form of flour or meal 
for bread making and such other homely dishes as each household might 
devise, afforded, through new and improved methods of milling or of 
cooking processes, or both, almost unlimited scope and opportunity for 
the betterment in form, nutriment and palatability of all foods of the 
cerelean class. The grains consequently became a subject of deep study 
and experimentation. The Yankee genius for invention was brought into 
full play. New and improved mechanical devices were constructed, ca- 



THE baker's book« 441 

pablc of thoroughly dissecting the grains and separating or combining the 
various elements at pleasure. It was like the discovery of a new element 
in nature. Science and experimentation went hand in hand. Each year 
new food producing concerns sprang up in all parts of the country, vying 
with one another in the strife to reach the maximum of excellence and 
IX)pular favor for their products. At the present day not fewer than 
three score and ten large firms in different parts of the United States are 
engaged in supplying the people cereal preparations in almost endless 
variety, from which may be made at once or in a few minutes number- 
less tasty, delicious and health and strength-giving dishes, according to 
the formulas furnished by these firms. Our long and full line of cereal 
foods, cooked and uncooked, highly glutenized and plain, mixed or sim- 
ple, have certainly added considerably to the home consumption of the 
products of the American grain farm. 

BLENDING FLOUR FOR FLAVOR. 

The following article, written for The American Miller by Mr. 
David .Chidlow, will be found of interest to bakers as well as to those 
for whom it was primarily intended. The strong competition existing 
among many bakers in large cities to i)ro<Iuce well flavored bread opens 
up a field for flour blending to produce flavor. The i)henomenal growth 
of straight doughs during the last two years, on the i)rinciple (as in- 
troduced generally by the Ileissler & Jnnge Co.. of Chicago), of using 
malt extract and taking the dough **voung," has been most surprising. 
It even threatens to cross the ocean and displace a system of fermentation 
that has been considered stable. 

One of the most peculiar features of this **home made" bread, as 
it is generally named, or **Quaker Bread." as patented by Heissler & 
Junge, is the fact that they are demanding the highest class flours made, 
in the belief that such flours give the highest flavor and other qualities 
desired. Looking at the question from my standpoint as a student of 
malt extract, fermentation and flour. I feel surprised that bakers should 
overlook the advantage of winter wheat flours as blends with the high 
spring patents already in use. The essential aim in the straight dough 
bread is to preserve the flavor of the flour as far as possible intact ; the 
secondary aim is to get a large loaf. To these ends fermentation is 
carried rapidly forward by using a large proportion of yeast : malt ex- 
tract is added to stimulate fermentation and give flavor, and soft doughs 
are used to permit the easy expansion of the dough; and strong flours 
are wanted to withstand expansion. 



44^ I'HE daker's book. 

From a theoretic standpoint the baker loses value by adopting this 
standpoint of work. It might be argued that the baker is simply supply- 
ing a public demand. But is such an argument sound? Is he not rather 
endeavoring to supply something as near to home-made as he can ? The 
nearer he reaches that ideal the more trade he commands. The house- 
wife adopts a different system. In the first place, her yeast is not so 
pure; it has more bacteria in it, and her flour is not so strong. She 
usually ferments through two stages — sponge and dough. The exces- 
sive bacteria and double stage of fermentation form a degradation of an 
already weaker flour, modified again, though, by the fact that she uses a 
very much larger proportion of yeast. The product of this system is 
what the baker aims to imitate or replace. 

A peculiarity of a mixture of yellow winter wheat flour and gray 
spring wheat flour is that almost invariably they take more water to form 
a dough than the two would separately, and that the mixture gives more 
gluten than the sum of the two would separately. 

I have found the mixture of Washington soft yellow flour with 
spring patents gain nearly four per cent, of water-absorbing power and 
add nearly three per cent, to the gluten. In all of such mixtures the 
value of the flour was increased in flavoring properties. The change 
that takes place is due to the action of the soluble albuminoids of the 
softer flour on the gluten bodies of the harder. Malt extract during fer- 
mentation has a very similar action on the spring patents, under the 
conditions that home-made bread is made; but this action is quadrupled 
under the same conditions, if such a blend as I have indicated be used. 

MACHINES FOR DETERMINING NUTRITIVE VALUE. 

Dr. J. A. Wesener, of the Columbus Food Laboratory, has invented 
machines- which determine the nutritive value of any grade of flour, 
predict with certainty how many loaves will be made to the barrel, how 
bulky will be the average loaf, and how dense or porous. His device 
represents a year of experiments. Dr. Wesener is a deep student of 
both physiological chemistry and food chemistry. He holds a professor- 
ship in animal food chemistry in both the Harvey Medical College and 
the College of Physicians and Surgeons. 

Judging flour values has been ridiculously crude up to the present. 

Vhen a baker wished to know how manv loaves of bread a certain 

^rade of flour would bake, he bought a barrel and converted it and then 

counted the product. It long since came to be taken as a standard that 



THE baker's book. 443 

a barrel, containing 196 pounds, would average 323 loaves. Whether 
each new purchase of the same grade or not would fulfil this expectation 
has had to be a matter of chance. It has been far more obscure how 
well any sample of flour would average up in nutritive value, porosity, 
fermenting power, strength, and color of dough, gluten, and ash i>er- 
centages — all of which determine whether bread is good or not. Dr. 
Wesencr's devices, although almost as simple as ordinary popguns, record 
all these tests beautifully. 

Dr. Wesener's new appliances are as simple as they are revolution- 
ary. Two separate brass cylinders, not larger than big hand syringes, 
and a graduated "vernier'* caliper for measurements, comprise most of 
his equipment. These operate on princii)Ics as simple as the apparatus. 
It has been found out that the nutritive value of a flour depends more 
upon the "tenacity of its gluten" than other considerations. That is to 
say, the ductile power the dough has to pull out into strings like taffy 
is greatest when the food value of the flour is highest. When dough will 
not stand the usual test in this respect its nutritive properties are in- 
ferior, it is said, notwithstanding a high jx^rcentage shown in gluten. It 
seems that the gluten, when dough is brittle, is of inferior food value. 
This same test also directly determines what volume a loaf will show 
from given weights of dough. Thus two of the most obscure points 
hitherto in making up flour into baker's products are cleared up by the 
same instrument. The fermenting period and fermenting capacity are 
also of utmost importance, and these are registered by another simple 
instrument. 

**When we wish to test a flour/* said Dr. F. W. Robison, the assist- 
ant of Dr. Wesener, "we deal with small quantities, as they give results 
as accurately as big tests. Because flavor is adventitious and has nothing 
to do with quality and the nutritive value of cereals, we leave out salt, 
sugar and flavoring. Part of the flour is properly mixed with distilled 
w^ater. set aside with ordinary baker's veast to rise, then kneaded thor- 
oughly w^ith the remainder of the sample and it is now ready to put in 
the cylindrical 'mold.' It is put in the bottom of this brass vessel, a 
piston crowded down upon it, anch the lid screwed on. Now the mold 
is put in the incubator, where -the dough rises rapidly from the expanding 
gases and the piston rod is forced out at the top. When 45 degrees of 
rise is registered by the piston the 'time of rising,' or 'fermentation 
period.* has been shown by the clock. The mold is then transferred to 
the electric oven, which is heated to 220 degrees centrigrade. The bread 
continues to rise as it bakes; it is there twenty-five minutes, and when 



444 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

removed the piston shows again by registering the additional rise just 
what will be the size of the pound loaf/' 

By the old time method of measuring the baked loaf, when a baker 
wanted dimensions he took a tape line and passed it around the loaf in 
three directions. If the heat had caused the loaf to rise up like a camel's 
hump at one end it can be easily seen the old plan had its serious dis- 
advantages. By simply reading the two registrations of this piston at 
the two stages of its ascent and quick reference to a standard scale the 
whole story can be set down in figures for the barrel of flour. 



RYE FLOUR. 

A kernel of rye is of about the same build as a kernel of wheat, but 
the form of the kernel is different. A bushel of rye weighs fifty-six 
pounds, as compared with a bushel of wheat weighing sixty pounds. 
Practically all of the rye raised in this country is winter rye; that is, it 
is sown in the fall, the same as winter wheat, and harvested about July I. 

Rye milling has been a gradual evolution from the days when all 
that was required was a run of stone and a reel, to the present time, 
when, as in this plant, advantage is taken of every modern milling con- 
venience in the manufacture of the flour. The mills that manufacture 
rye flour may be divided into three classes : 

First — The strictly rye mill, the mill that is especially equipped and 
built for the manufacture of rye flour, such as the one operated by our- 
selves ( there being only very few such rye flour mills in the whole of the 
United States). 

Second — The rye mill, which is operated in connection with a wheat 
mill, in which the rye is ground on a separate system from the wheat, 
and in which the rve business is a side issue. 

Third — The grist mill, that makes everything from patent wheat flour 
to chop feed, on the same machines. 

A grain of rye contains a certain amount of flour and a certain 
amount of feed. The problem that confronts the miller is to separate, as 
perfectly as possible, the flour from the feed. To do this requires fully 
thirty per cent, more machinery and power than is required to mill the 
same amount of wheat flour. It is quite evident that mills of the first 
class can make a more perfect separation than their competitors, for the 
reason that they are built and operated for that express purpose. Mills 



THE baker's book. 445 

of the second class could give the same results, except that, being operated 
as a side issue to wheat milling, and often for the purpose of working 
off wheat low grades, neither the attention nor equipment is given that is 
used by millers of the first class. Owing to the special flow of stock 
through the mill required in rye milling, and the special equipment of the 
machines used, you will find the results obtained by some third-class mills 
comparatively poor. You will find stock in their flour that properly belongs 
in their feed, and in their feed stock that belongs in the flour. No mill 
can make both good rye flour and good wheat flour on the same machines, 
and the same system. The quality of one must be sacrificed to the other. 

We are now writing wholly in regard to pure rye flour. The blend- 
ing of rye flour with wheat flour is an entirely different subject, and we 
will tell you about that some other time. Suffice it to say that every rye 
mill in the United States, little or big, turns out more or less blended 
flour. It is a legitimate branch of the business, and there is no reason 
why it should be treated as a secret sin, about which nothing should 
be said. 

Pure dark rye flour corresponds to a straight wheat flour, and is 
all of the flour contained in the rye, or one hundred per cent. Now, this 
one hundred per cent, of straight rye flour is composed of, say, seventy 
per cent, of patent rye flour and thirty per cent, of rye low grade. There- 
fore, in making a patent rye flour, the rye low grade is merely eliminated 
from the straight rye flour, and we have remaining a rye flour much 
whiter in color than the straight, but less strong in taste and odor of rye, 
for the rye low grade that has been taken out contains the strong rye 
germ. The greater the percentage of low grade rye taken from the 
straight flour, the whiter the patent will be, and also, incidentally, the 
more expensive. — Circular of the Blodgett Milling Co., Janesville, Wis. 



POOD VALUE OP RYE AND WHEAT HIXTURES. 

In the course of some investigations on the food value of different 
admixtures of rye and wheat, I came to the conclusion that the soluble 
albuminoids of rye were specially active in converting starch into sugar, 
writes Professor Goodfellow in "Practical Confectioner and Baker." 
The soluble albuminoids of nearlv all the cereals have this diastasic 
action, but vary greatly in the degree to which the conversion is carried. 
\'arious admixtures of wheat and ry« were experimented with and the 
results compared with mixtures of wheat and other cereals. In all cases 



446 THE baker's book. 

the same wheat was employed, the quantities of sugar in the meal being 
carefully estimated, and similar analyses being made in the case of the 
rye, barley, oats» maize and rice used. 

The following table gives the quantities of sugar in the original 
50 per cent, mixtures before treatment : 

Mixture Percentage of Sufi^ar- 

Wheat and rye 3.85 

Wheat and barley 2.75 

Wheat and oats 3.16 

Wheat and maize 2.85 

Wheat and rice 2.59 

The mixtures were then digested thoroughly at 130 degrees F. for 

eight hours and the percentages of sugar ascertained again. 

The following table gives the total percentage and the increase in 

order of merit : 

Original ^HK^'' ^''^^ 
Mixture. Sugar. Treatment Increase. 

Wheat and rye 3.85 8.95 5.10 

Wheat and maize 2.85 5.37 2.52 

Wheat and barley 2.75 4.89 2.14 

Wheat and oats 3.16 4.56 1.40 

Wheat and rice 2.59 2.73 0.14 

From these experiments it would appear that a combination of rye 
and wheat is the most active of the cereals with regard to diastasic prop- 
erties. No experiments were made to ascertain what proportion of the 
increase of the sugar was due to the inversion of the non-reducing soluble 
carbohydrates of the cereals, as distinct from the conversion of starch, 
but control experiments were made with mixtures of 50 per cent, of 
starch and 50 per cent, of the same cereals mentioned above, the starch 
being gelatinized before treatment. 

The mixtures were digested for eight hours at 130 F. and the fol- 
lowing were the results in order of merit : 

Rye and starch 2.06 6.56 4.50 

Wheat and starch 1.26 4.83 3.57 

Maize and starch 1.02 3.51 2.49 

Oats and starch 1.18 3.45 2.27 

Barley and starch 1.03 3.24 2.21 

Rice and starch 0.26 0.48 0.22 

The results of these control experiments confirmed the earlier ones, 



THE baker's book. 447 

except in the case of oats and barley, in which a discrepancy was ob- 
served, and the complete gelatinization of the starch did not appear to 
have any marked effect on the degree of conversion. Of course no per- 
manent conclusion should be drawn from these isolated experiments, 
but they are interesting as indicating the power which cereals possess of 
converting their own starch into sugar under proper conditions, but 
future experiments may show that the variations are so great under dif- 
ferent circumstances that no decided rule can with accuracy be laid down. 

The characteristic flavor which a proportion of rye imparts to wheat 
bread may be partly due to this fermentive action, whereby a sweeter 
loaf is obtained, and the better keeping qualities of the bread may be 
partly due to the increased percentage of soluble carbo-hydrates present. 
Rye in itself is slightly richer in sugar than wheat, and certainly con- 
tains a greater proportion of soluble albuminoids. 

The following analyses of the two typical samples will serve to show 
these differences clearly ; 

Wheat. Rye. 

Water 12.61 12.78 

Starch 63.57 59.29 

Fat 1.48 1.43 

Sugar and other soluble carbo-hydrates. . . . 3.21 5.06 

Insoluble albumin 9.63 9.72 

Soluble albumin 4.92 6.35 

Cellulose fibre 2.86 3.39 

Ash 1.72 1.98 



•100.00 100.00 

Rye is thus seen to contain 1.84 per cent, of sugar and 1.43 per 
cent, of soluble albuminoids more than wheat. The addition of a small 
proportion of rye not only improves flavor, but renders the bread more 
digestible and nutritious. 

The various preparations of corn flour which are now advertised so 
largely are lately being sold under fancy names for the addition to house- 
hold flour for bread-making purposes. One variety is self-raising, and 
it is claimed that when added in proportion of i part to 6 parts of wheatcn 
flour by weight it produces bread which is easily digested even when 
new. There can be no doubt that the mixture of a small proportion of 
com flour to ordinary flour confers certain well-marked properties on the 



44^ THE baker's book. 

resulting bread, the most important of which is a retention of moisture 
for a longer period than ordinary bread, but unless the corn flour con- 
tains a due proportion of nitrogen it lowers the nutritive value of the 
bread. 

Ordinary com flour is manufactured from maize (cca mays) or 
rice (or yea satava), the former cereal being more commonly employed 
for the purpose. As prepared in the ordinary way it consists almost 
entirely of starch, as the following analysis of a well-known br?.nd shows : 

Analysis of Corn Flour {Good fellow). 

Water 9.85 

Proteids 1.61 

Starch 88.12 

Ash 42 



100.00 

Sugar and dextrin were entirely absent. It is clear from this analy- 
sis that the addition of such a flour to wheaten flour for bread-making 
purposes lowers the nitrogenous ratio, and consequently the nutritive 
value of the bread. At the same time the bread unquestionably keeps 
moist far longer than that made from wheaten flour alone. I am unable 
to discover, by the most careful digestive experiments, any improvement 
in the digestive qualities of bread containing corn flour. If anything, 
the reduction by the digestive juices is somewhat slower. Another very 
important point is that the percentage of phosphates is reduced by the 
addition of corn flour. In whole maize the ash contains nearly 80 per 
cent, of phosphate ol soda, while corn flour only contains about 4 
per cent. 

EFFECT OF FUMES ON FLOUR. 

Flour is very susceptible to fumes and odors. Bakers sometimes 
forget this and fail to store their slock of flour properly. Then when 
their bread is poor, they blame the flour merchant when the fault lies 
entirelv with themselves. 

A New Jersey baker recently thought he could improve the kalso- 
mine he was having applied to his place by putting in it a strong solution 
of carbolic acid and chloride of lime. He acted on the happy thought, 
but when the day*s baking was finished the bread tasted as if it had 



THE baker's book. 449 

come out of a quarantine station. Flour is so sensitive that the best 
millers never eat onions until after the mill shuts down, and head millers 
are always particular what brand of perfumery they use on their hand- 
kerchiefs. 

F. B. Gutrie, an expert, recently made an investigation of the effect 
of exposing flour to the fumes of burning sulphur. The Bakers and Con- 
fcctioncrs' Journal reports the result. A few ounces of sulphur were 
burnt in an airtight wooden box with a lid which fitted closely, and was 
weighted down to make it nearly airtight. The flour was suspended in 
a calico bag from the under side of the lid. The whole was left to itself 
for six hours. The .lour was then emptied out and left in the open air, 
with frequent stirring, in order to allow the sulphurous acid to escape. 

The flour that had been exposed to the fumes of the sulphur was 
apparently unaltered in appearance. On attempting to wash out the 
gluten from the dough, to determine the gluten contents, a slimy, sticky 
mass was obtained, which washed away between the fingers without 
leaving a trace of gluten. On attempting to determine the strength it 
was only possible to make a dough containing 36 quarts of water per 
sack, at which point it became quite sticky and unworkable, though un- 
like dough made under similar conditions from ordinary flour in being 
quite hard and heavy. 

The baking test was a complete failure. It was impossible to pre- 
pare a proper sponge, the dough becoming very sticky and impossible to 
handle. It was not possible to obtain a light dough. The fermentation 
in the sponge was very slight, and on baking the loaves hardly rose at 
all. and produced a heavy sodden crumb without texture. It would 
appear that the action of sulphur fumes on flour is to affect the compo- 
sition of the gluten. 

BAKERS AS BLENDERS. 

{The opinion of an English Baker,) 

The question as to whether it pays to blend one*s own flours may 
be answered in the affirmative, the cheapness of foreign flour compared 
to the home-milled flour being one of the strongest claims for the baker 
blender, writes an English baker in the British Baker, The chief thing 
to consider with flour blending is to get strength, color, and flavor. This, 
as a general rule, can be done by noting the characteristics of the differ- 



450 THE baker's book. 

ent kinds of flours. For strength you will need some American spring 
wheat patents (which are at a low price now) ; as a general rule, these 
cannot be beaten for strength, whilst they have not got the flavor that 
home-made flour has got. You will, therefore, need to have either some 
American winter wheat patents (generally good color) or some Aus- 
tralian or French flour. All these are soft flours, but they have the 
flavor the American spring has not got. About two-thirds of American 
spring, with one-third of the other soft flours, will make a good blend. 
If you are going to use a lot of American spring you will require to use 
a little malt extract to give flavor. The water-absorbing powers of 
spring American are very much in their favor, and it is therefore very 
profitable to the baker to use it if possible. It makes a large, bulky loaf, 
but the bread eats chaffy if other flours are not blended with it. The 
American winter wheat patents are generally of good color and good 
flavor, but are very soft, the water-absorbing power being low. French 
flour is also soft, but of good flavor, whilst Hungarian flour is good 
both for color and flavor. At the price of 5d. I am- afraid you will not be 
able to use much Hungarian, but then, a little roller whites would assist 
the flavor. The best way of blending is to take your general brand of 
home-milled, note the price, then take the price of foreign flours, and, 
having got a selected blend together, test for color, strength, and flavor 
against the home-milled. American spring wheat patents are quoted at 
21 s. 6d.. and lower grades as low as 17s. 6d. It should be no difficulty 
for you to get a suitable blend at the price you mention. — Factor. 



TESTINQ FLOUR WITH THE MICROSCOPE. 

The following method of determining the baking value of flour by 
means of the microscope was originated and described by a Spanish 
scientist some years ago in Die Muehle of Leipzig. The microscope used 
had a magnifying power of 60 diameters. The cuts shown are not very 
good, but show the characteristics of the flour with sufficient accuracy to 
be a guide. 

As small as possible a quantity of flour is taken upon the point of 
a penknife, and placed on a drop of water, on an object glass. (By 
simply looking at the particles of flour, they must appear to be floating 



THE BAKERS BOOK, 



451 





singly in the water. When too much flour is taken, a dough-like mass is 
immediately formed, which is useless. The slight pressure of the glass 
which covers the ob- 
ject removes a portion 
of the water, while the 
flour — according to its 
properties — shows va- 
rious characteristic 
phenomena. 

In good flour it 
will be observed that 

the gluten, which ap- 
pears to be surrounded ^^« ia4.-Flour Under the Microscope 

and protected by particles of starch, will change its texture the instant 
that it comes in contact with water. It expands and spreads in all direc- 
tions, and to a certain extent surrounds all particles of starch which it 
encounters, forming a network, as is shown in Fig. I. It retains this 
form after the water is evaporated for many hours, and even for days, 
although in the weakest points it will be drawn together or ruptured. 
The whole mass has a uniform color, and neither grains nor stains can 
be observed. 

With medium qualities of flour the same change takes place, but 
much slower; the gluten expands, but whether it wants sufficient force, 
or whether the particles of starch adhere too firmly among one another, 
it is certain that a uniform network is not formed. There also remain 
accumulations of starch, which in their interior contain yellowish masses 
of fats and gummy substances, which were not put into motion by con- 
tact with water, as is the case in good flours. Fig. 2 shows the form in 
which this kind of 
flour generally appears 
during the first half 
hour of observation. 

In poor flours, as 
the water is removed 
by pressure of evapo- 
ration, the flour ab- 
sorbs water, and con- 
tracts to form small 

lumps. It shows no Pur. ws-Plour Under the Micra,cope. 

tendency to separate gluten, or that the latter would surround the starch* 





452 THE BAKER S BOOK. 

Hence it happens that the particles of starch, the gluten and the particles 
of bran essentially remain in their original position. The formation of 
a network, or of fine threads, can only be observed here or there in small 
groups in the field of view. 

Fig. 3 shows the appearance of poor flour surrounded by water, and 
Fig. 4 shows the same, after the water has been evaporated. It will be 
seen in the latter figure that there is not the slightest cohesion, not even 
a tendency of any kind for the particles to combine. 



HAZELNUT FLOUR KEEPS BREAD FRESH. 

*A German baker is accredited with mixing ground hazelnuts with 
his bread-flour, which he claims will keep the bread fresh for a long 
period. In preparing this hazelnut flour the kernels are first freed from the 
skin and then ground very fine by special process. It is added to the 
-wheat flour in a proportion of lo to 25 per cent., but care must be taken 
that the mixing is done thoroughly, as it is important that the fatty ele- 
ments of the nuts shall prevade the whole mixture. The flour thus mixed 
acquires a property which enables the bread or other goods made from 
it to keep much longer than if ordinary flour is used. The fatty or oily 
elements prevent the absorption of moisture to a great extent, and, con- 
sequently, also prevents the formation of mould, mildew or similar 
growths. In addition to this, it is claimed, the albumen and fat in the 
hazelnut enhance the value of the flour, because of their nutritive quali- 
ties. However, we have not heard anything recently about the success of 
these experiments and doubt whether it is used to any extent abroad. 
Perhaps it would pay some enterprising American baker to make ex- 
periments on these suggestions. 



BAKERS* FLOUR. 



For many years the bakers' trade was subjected to a very inadvertent 
misrepresentation by the millers and the press regarding the grades of 
flour used by all the honest, conscientious bakers, large or small, through- 
out the country. Nearly every mill, in fact, the market quotations in the 
milling and financial papers quoted the inferior brands of wheat flour 
under the brand of "Bakers Flour.'' By branding what is supposed to be 
each mill's most inferior grade as **Bakers* Flour." the quotation of 
which, on the markets of the world, is, of course, proportionally less than 
that of high-grade patent flour, the bulk of which is used by bakers of this 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 453 

country. The first energetic protest, which created quite an agitation and 
revolt among the bakers, was made by Mr. Chas. Schneider of Washing- 
ton, D. C, in a letter send to the Northwestern Miller at the beginning 
of 1895. ^^' Schneider pictured the injustice to bakers in its true light, 
when he wrote: 

*'The millers have always made, and are making, a low grade of 
flour, which they call *bakers\* There is very little of this flour used bj 
the bakers, as I, for one. use in my establishment about l6,ooo barrels 
annually, and, of the 16,000, there are only 300 barrels of this *bakers' 
flour.' During the recent agitation of the bread question, which was 
conducted by the newspapers of this city, some weeks ago. these news- 
papers, in figuring up the baker's profits, always took the price of this 
'baker's flour.' The public in general is under the impression that this 
flour is made especially for the bakers, and that this is the only kind the 
bakers make use of. Otherwise, it would not have the name of 'bakers'- 
flour.' Why not give this flour another name— one which would not 
embarrass the baker nor mislead the public?" 

The Northwestern Miller promptly took lip the matter and took side 
with the bakers, by abandoning the misnomer "Bakers' Flour" in quot- 
ing the lower grades, heretofore known under that title. The Northern 
Miller wrote at the time : 

"To retain the brand of 'bakers',' in the face of the protest of the 
American baking trade, is not alone being unprogressive ; it is equally 
stupid and shortsighted. There is a sentiment among the bakers, as 
among other classes, and it should be respected. The sentiment is strong- 
ly expressed against the misnaming of this flour, and millers awake to 
the situation should be prompt to acknowledge and respect it. The 
proper name for bakers' flour is 'clear' flour, and, henceforth, in these 
columns, that word will be used in connection with the brand formerlv 
known as *bakers' flour." 

The Bakers' Helper also took active part in the controversy at once, 
and in a short time the leading bakers throughout the country raised a 
vigorous protest and demanded correction of the deceiving injustice. The 
protest was the more justified because just about that time the press and 
public alike were rather antagonistic to the baker, and figured his profits 
according to their own resources of information, using the low grade 
of flour branded as "Bakers Flour,*' and which is the cheapest, as 
a basis for calculations in figuring out the cost of manufacturing bakers 
bread, to the detriment of the bakers. Now, if the bakers of this coun- 
try are the millers' best customers, why should the miller thus reflect 



454 I'HE baker's BCX)K. 

upon the bakers by branding an inferior grade of flour with their name, 
thus publicly indicating that that grade is mostly used by bakers of this 
country, while, if the truth were known, by far the greater portion of 
that special grade of flour would be found to be shipped to foreign 
cotmtries. 

The agitation was quite successful at the time and to-day the fact 
is well established that every progressive baker uses the best grades of 
patent flour obtainable. The baker who still buys cheap inferior flour is 
not only in the minority ; he is, by working against his own interests, 
considered a fool, and not to be feared as a successful competitor. Mak- 
ing cheap bread out of cheap, inferior flour is an illusion, and every baker 
calculating on the basis that cheap flour makes cheap bread is deceiving 
himself. The very best of flour, and the use of the very best modern 
machinery produces the greatest number of loaves of bread from a barrel 
of flour, and besides makes the best loaf. 

Many of the leading bakers have also abandoned the idea of mixing 
one or two brands of cheaper flour with their best patent flour. Blending 
such flours together, the result may be a good loaf; but, as they have 
to rely on the A No. i strong spring patent to offset the weaker or 
darker cheap flour, will they gain anything by the manipulation? Will 
the cost per loaf, when baked, be more if they use five barrels of an 
A. No. I Standard Spring Patent flour instead of three barrels of A. No. 
I and two barrels of a cheaper, weaker flour ? 

Of course in a large wholesale bakery equipped with a modem 
laboratory for testing every brand of flour, as to its value for flavor, color, 
gluten, etc., a perfect **blefid" can be obtained and may be used to ad- 
vantage. However our leading flour mills have realized the fact that 
to merely grind wheat into flour was not all that is necessary in flour- 
making, and they have found that something had to be done to insure 
absolute uniformity from day to day. The most uniform and most re- 
liable flour, the flour producing the best flavored, best colored loaf and 
containing the largest percentage of gluten at the same time, was the 
problem confronting the modern miller and the result was the installa- 
tion of a flour-testing department, where chemical analysis and practical 
baking tests could be made. The modern miller practically endeavors to 
do the blending during the grinding of the grain, thus offering the 
baker a perfect flour fully guaranteed to run uniform from day to day, 
and relieving the baker of experimenting with or changing his brand 
of flour every little while. Of course one certain brand of flour, even 
if of the highest quality, does not suit for everv kind of bread. The 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 455 

main purpose of this article is to remind the honest, progressive millers 
and bakers of their duty, to continually agitate the fact, wherever they 
have the opportunity, that the baker of to-day uses the very best flour 
obtainable and that the price of flour is a secondary consideration with 
the American baker, as a great number of people still have the wrong 
idea, that the bakers use a cheaper grade of flour than the brands of 
so-called *Taniily flour.*" 



PATENT VERSUS STRAIGHT FLOUR. 

A correspondent of the American Miller writes: "Considerable 
printers' ink has been used of late to educate the milling fraternity up, or 
back, to the old idea of producing a straight grade of flour. There are 
some who argue against the division of the inside of the golden grain on 
the ground that it is an unjustifiable act of man to interfere with and 
attempt to improve on Nature's perfect handiwork'. 

"This is the veriest folly, as man separates any and every product and 
leaves what he does not want, utilizing the portions he considers of value 
in whatever percentages and grades that suits his fancy or his needs. 

"Then the claim is made that there really never was any good reason 
for dividing the product of the wheat berry into patent, bakers and low 
grade. We hardly think those millers who made the first patent flour, or 
even those who for ten years after its introduction found barrels of gold 
dollars in its manufacture, could be made to believe that this method of 
dividing flour into two or three grades was not superior to the old straight 
flour system of the past ages. 

'This patent flour was not all moonshine, for there are the financial 
results, positive and substantial proofs to the contrary. Had the millers 
maintained their original practice, the patent flour market would not be 
in the demoralized and unsatisfactory condition that it has been in and 
promises to continue in for the future. The statement that it was a novelty 
soon bound to wear off will not hold. The basis for this 25 to 40 per cent, 
of patent flour, from good Xo. i hard wheat, had a good, firm foundation, 
and it brought $2 per barrel more than the old-time straight millstone 
flour. Made in this manner to-day this patent would bring 50 cents and 
more per barrel above a straight flour. 

"Passing by our Model Baker>',I noticed the unloading of patent flour 
made in the extreme Northwest. In answer to my inquiry I am informed 



45^ THE baker's book. 

that such flour cannot be made by tlie mills in this great Buckeye State. 
Through one bad crop year and into the next did these winter wheat mil- 
lers flounder around, losing trade daily, until forced to admit spring wheat 
into their cold looking winter wheat mills. But, alas, the same policy was 
pursued ; the fine flour theory was steadily adhered to for the sake of color. 
Great and small, they are all in it trying to see who can produce the finest 
and whitest flour. 

"All of the fair-sized mills going into the manufacture of patent flour 
tended, of course, to lower the extremely high price. Then the patent 
from No. i wheat was brought into competition with patent from Xo. 2 
and lower grades of wheat. But it did not stop here ; the percentage of 
patent taken out of all grades of wheat was increased to a point beyond 
all reason, thereby lowering the quality. Xo more disastrous, unbusiness- 
like move was ever made in any manufacturing business that had as good 
a thing as patent flour proved to be. Those mills that are to-day making 
a flour claimed to be as good as any patent, and running from 75 to 95 
per cent., are fooling nobody but themselves. 

"Why is patent flour that is a real patent better and worth more than 
other flour? It is better because it contains the strongest and most nour- 
ishing portion of the wheat berry, and for this reason it brings more in the 
world's markets. This baker here gets this granular patent, made 1,000 
miles away, because it raises and makes a beautiful loaf of bread, and pro- 
duces twentv-five or more loaves to each barrel." 



THE STORAGE OF FLOUR. 

Translated from the Original Report of Mr. Jos. Fritsch, in Sarajewo. 

Storage Room for Whe^xt Flour. 

Our flour room (mehlboden) has a capacity of eight carloads and is 
divided into three compartments for different brands. The flour is emptied 
and sifted before dumped into the bins, for which purpose we have two 
sifting machines ; one for fine white flour, the other for the darker, com- 
mon flour, and the meshes in the sieves are accordingly fine and coars. 
Besides a good ventilation a skylight is provided. The floor is of smalf 
tile, the room airy and lofty and is reached by a broad stairway, the steps 
being wide and low. 



THE baker's book. 457 

Storage Room for Rye Flour. 

This room has a capacity of five carloads of flour, and is partitioned 
off and otherwise arranged similar to the above described storeroom. 

The flour stored in these bins must be frequently turned over with 
wooden shovels. If stored in bags, the same must also be changed around 
from time to time and not be packed too close together, and not be piled 




Bini. (B«»a B»kcry of Joieph FritKh. ! 



lip too high, so the air can circulate between the bags and between the 
rows. 

Flour should be kept in a good airy room, away from all disagreeable 
odors. Flour is very susceptible to absorb the odors of things placed near 
it. For instance, put one or two barrels of flour in your trough and put a 
small basin with kerosene not far from it. Even if you close the trough 
up for a few hours you will readily discover that all the flour in the trough 
is tainted with kerosene, although the flour and kerosene have not been in 
direct contact with each other; paint or kalsomine has the same effect. The 
place where flour is stored should be kept as clean and sweet as it is pos- 



45^ THE baker's book. 

sible to make it, with an even temperature, and good ventilation. One 
baker wanted to make sure his extermination of bugs and all vermin and 
added some carbolic acid to his whitewash, which he applied to the walls 
and ceiling on a Saturday afternoon after the work was all done. But, 
behold, when he wanted to start work on Sunday evening every pound of 
flour in the barrels and in the trough was so thoroughly saturated with 
the smell of carbolic acid that it was unfit to use. 

DOES OLD FLOUR MAKE BETTER BREAD THAN NEW FLOUR? 

Bakers are of different opinion about this point. Personally the writer 
prefers a wheat flour one or two months old, but not older. In Europe 
it has been an old custom of the bakers to buy flour ahead and store it 
loose in large bins in the garret (Mehlbaden). This is, however, done 
away with in most modem bakeries, and flour stored in bags. One of the 
principal rules for storing flour is: a good circulation of fresh air, but 
no exposure to sunlight. The trouble with old flour generally begins 
when the new wheat begins to grow in spring. Rye flour, however, is 
always at its best when fresh from the mill and when the new crop is 
nearly ripe in the fields, it is often difficult to get good rye flour. It may 
interest our readers to read the opinions of other bakers on this point, 
and we reprint here a few letters sent to the Bakers' Helper: 

OLD FLOUR HAKES THE BEST FLOUR. 

Mr. Wm. A. Hale writes : "After a practical experience of thirty-five 
years, twenty-five as foreman in some of the best shops in London, New 
England, and on the Pacific coast, I am of the opinion that flour from two 
to four months old is preferable for bread-making to flour fresh from the 
mill. It will make bread with a finer grain and of better color. The older 
flour gives the better yield. I am satisfied that flour (say) four months 
old, will yield from eight to ten pounds more bread to the barrel than 
flour fresh from the mill. When I was a boy, my father was a boss baker 
in the west of England, and he had a contract to furnish an institution with 
bread at so much per four-pound loaf. It was necessary to get all he 
could out of an English sack of flour (three of our barrels are equal to 
two English sacks), and it would vary according to the age of the flour 
from three to four four-pound loaves. From what I learned then, and 
from experience of a very late date, I am fully convinced that flour fresh 
from the mill is not in the best condition to use." 

Mr. C. Hassler writes: "My experience of thirty years of dough- 
making convinces me that flour of any age is better for bread bakers than 



THE BAK£R S BOOK. 



459 



new flour. There are four reasons for my belief : First, it requires a soft 
dough, which is a great saving; second, it requires less yeast, as aged 
flour has more driving power; third, owing to a soft dough, it will make 
a monster loaf of bread ; fourth, it will make a whiter loaf of bread." 

BE5T RESULTS PROn NEW FLOUR. 

Mr. W. E, Bruce, of Lansing, Mich., prefers new flour; he writes: 
"In regard to the question ; 'Does fresh flour make better bread than flour 
that has been kept for several weeks or months ?' I would say this : Ask 
any baker who has never had the experience of using fresh ground flour 
and he will say that flour with age is the best flour to use. Ask him why, 
and he will say that flour improves with age. In my twenty years' experi- 
ence as a baker, I have always had the same opinion until recently. I 
am using about one thousand pounds of flour per day. The flour I gel 
comes from a mill here in the city. Ofttimes the flour I set sponge with 
in the afternoon is ground in the morning. I am having better results 
from ihc fresh flour than I had from flour with age. Il seems to be strong- 
er. Since reading the article, I have secured a sample of the same brand 
of flour with age, and compared it with the fresh ground ; I took two 
ounces of each, and I found that one ounce of water mixed with the fresh 
flour produced a stiff dough. It took one and one-fourth ounces of water 
mixed with the flour with age to produce a dough of the same consistency 
as the other. Now the difference might be in the process of milling. I use 
nothing but fall wheat flour, and I certainly have better bread from the 
fresh flour than I had with flour with age." 



7W^ 





460 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



Rope in Bread. 

Prepared for the Bakers Book by Emil Bilvun. 
IVhat is **R()rE" /;/ bread? 

About ten years ago complaints about a mysterious bread disease 
known as ''Rope* were brouj2:lit to the notice of the millers' and bakers' 
journals and since then this peculiar pest of the bakeshcips has been stead- 
ily broadcninj; its area of activity in all parts of America. 

In Europe as well it has made its appearance and from Australia 
came reports about "Rope" in bread, and even in Africa and India it is 
fairly well known, the conditions in these countries being more favorable 
to its development. There seem to be more theories concerning *'Rope" 
or **Cohii'ebs* in bread than concerning any other disputed point in the 
baking business. Scitnlists. Imwever. all agree that it is a bacterium, or 
bacillus. Prof. \Vm. Jago. in an article in the Bakers Helper, writes: 

The scientific explanation of "rr)[K-" hrietly is this: There are cer- 
tain minute organisms which, given a suitable medium and suitable con- 
ditions for development, so change the constituents of bread as to convert 
them into a sticky india-rubber-like mass. When the bread is in this 
condition, if pulled asunder it draws out into string-like pieces and hence 
the origin of the term "rope." At the same time the bread acquires a 
most repulsive odor and taste. In the absence of these conditions, or in 
the absence of the specific "rope" organisms, the state of ropiness cannot 
be produced. Such is the view which modtTn scientists take of the nature 
of this particular brtad disease. It may. be well to indicate the species 
of evidence on which this theory is based. First of all. there is no doubt 
that ropiness is a species of putrefaction : any one who has ever smelt ropy 
bread will agree with this. Now putrefaction, as a general phenomenon, 
lias been most conclusively proved to be the result of action of certain 
organisms, belongini; to a group known as "bacteria." However putre- 
scrible a liquid may be. let any bacteria present be destroyed and the 
access of external ones prevented, then that liquid will remain perfectly 
free from putrefaction for an indefinite time, however favorable all other 
conditions may be for the rapid progress of such changes. Not only is 
jmtrefaction thus definitely associated with bacterial life, but so are other 
disease changes and also industrial operations. Among the latter the 
conversion of sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide gas by yeast is one 




Tile bakeh' 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 4^1 

of the most familiar to the baker. Now, it would be very strange if ropi- 
ness in bread were the one exception to the general causes which govern 
the production of putrefaction, and therefore there is a strong a priori 
reason for ascribing it to the action of bacteria. 

For further than this, ropiness is a disease which affects not onl}^ 
bread, but also at times beer and milk. The latter two being liquids render 
it more easy to detect and isolate any or^o^anisms which may be present, 
and consequently such organisms have been recognized and identified as 
the agents of ropiness in these substances. Ropy bread also contains or- 
ganisms of a similar character. As Mr. Childow says, any further and 
detailed proof of this association of **rope" and bacteria **would be prac- 
tically all Circek to the ordinary reader." Those who deny or refuse to 
accept these views, must in these matters work out their own salvation; 
as the reasons given for the origin of ropiness, and the suggestions for its 
cure, are based cm the generally accepted ideas of its nature. 

Discussing an article of Mr. G. II. Vass on **Rope'' the American 
Miller says: "He contents himself with stating that rope is caused by a 
ferment, but whether it is the 'pediacocctts cercoisk'e,' as Jago calls it, or 
the 'bacillus suhtilis* of I>landy, he evidently cares not. contenting himself 
with a study of the conditions under which 'Rope' appears and how to 
avoid or neutralize them." Cierman scientists claim that "Rope'* is caused 
by the potato bacillus {Bae. mescntericus fuscus Plugge), which are 
present in the flour. 

Practically the same theory of rope is held by the best authorities in 
Europe. A IJerlin medical man. Dr. Lebbin, published a contribution to 
this subject as supporting the theory that the cause of rope is strictly 
bacteriological. 

It is caused by a kind of bacillus which belongs to the series known 
as potato bacillus. These are small, forked organisms, which are every- 
where in the ground, and which owe their name to the fact that they were 
first discovered in potatoes. Globig states that he had to boil the potato 
bacilli for fi\Q and one-half to six hours in loo degrees Centigrade (212 
degrees Fahrenheit) to kill them. Heats of 109 to 113 degrees Centigrade 
were borne by them for three-quarters of an hour without injury. Be- 
tween 113 and 116 degrees they were killed after twenty-five minutes; 
between 122 and 123 degrees, after ten minutes; at 127 degrees after two 
minutes, and at 130 degrees almost immediately. During the process of 
baking the cnmib of bread is submitted to a heat of from 100 to 102 de- 
grees Centigrade, and therefore it is not certain that the bacilli can be de- 
stroyed. 



462 THE baker's book. 

Nine kinds of these bacilli have been discovered. They come from 
the ground, and are more likely to be in the bran than in the wheat. This 
, is the reason why graham bread and rough military bread are of a glutin- 
ous character. Moisture and warmth conduce to the growth of the bacilli. 
They flourish best at from 26 to 28 degrees Centigrade. As soon as the 
bread cools down to 23 degrees their increase is barely perceptible. 

Dr. Lebbin, in his article, states that there are animalculae in every 
loaf, but that their development depends largely on temperature. Con- 
sequently ropy bread is most obser\'ed in the hottest months of the year, 
and ropiness may be retarded or prevented by keeping new made bread 
in a cool place. Not only should everything in the bakery be thoroughly 
cleansed and the walls whitewashed with fresh slacked lime, but particular 
attention should be paid to secure quick cooling of bread and storing in a 
cool place. 

The time most favorable for development is in the hot damp weather 
when the air is loaded with moisture and is very warm. Such weather 
as we may expect from July to September constitutes the period of its 
greatest activity. I have known it to be present in a bakeshop all the year 
round, as shown in the bread ; but in the winter time it would only show 
in some kinds of bread after three or four davs, while in summer it would 
make itself known in from thirty-six to forty-eight hours. It usually dis- 
appears when cold weather comes on, and begins to become active during 
the late spring and early summer months. 

In Australia, where the seasons arc reversed from ours, Mr. G. H. 
Vass observes that it appeared in December and disappeared about the end 
of February. The time of its appearance was the hottest portion of the 
year, with the thermometer ranging from 100 to 115 Fahrenheit in the 
shade. It will be seen that this summer rope made its appearance with the 
advent of excessive heat. Evidently Mr. Vass thinks the avoidance of 
rope reduces itself to a question of how to make bread in a locality where 
the temperature is excessively hot. **To sum up/' he says, "my aim 
would be to work at a temperature of between 80 and 86 degrees, have as 
short a process as possible, avoid potatoes or malt extract or sugar in any 
form, use the maximum of salt and bake well in the oven." He would 
* use ice and cold water and pay particular attention to the cleanliness of 
the utensils. 

WHAT CAU5E5 •• ROPE " TO DEVELOP IN BREAD ? 

The theories advanced to account for its appearance in bread are 
legion. Some years ago the London Miller contained a complaint from a 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 463 

baker in India who stated that he had periodical attacks of "rope" in his 
bread; he stated that these attacks became severe when the moist, hot 
winds became prevalent, but he was at a loss to account for the source 
of the difficultv and asked for assistance for its elucidation. 

We intend to publish here a number of reports and experiences of 
bakers,, who have been troubled with '*Ropc*' and also reprint the opin- 
ions and theoretic researches of experienced scientists, who have made 
this threaded bread disease their special study. These articles are in- 
tended to provide the baker with a knowledge of the scourge with which 
he may become acquainted, when least expected, and supply him with 
means to prevent loss and trouble by giving him the experience of others 
in preventing its development and ridding the shop of it, if too late to 
prevent its appearance. 

Although the great majority of bakers are yet entirely unacquainted 
with this dreaded plague, yet those bakers who have had ''Rope'* in their 
bread never forgot the experience and can tell sad stories of trouble and 
pecuniary loss. The wife of a baker in Newark, N. J., told the writer 
some time ago, that her husband nearly went insane over the trouble they 
had with rope. He would be up ever>' night, watching as for burglars, 
and in daytime he could not find rest, and would be watching in fear, if 
any customers would bring back the bread they bought. For a few days 
all would go well then the plague would break out anew, and more severe 
than before. Some bakers have had mild attacks of it without being 
acquainted with its character. A mild case of "Rope" makes its appear- 
ance in bread about two or three days after being baked ; then the center 
of the loaf becomes soft, mushy, and by breaking the loaf you can notice 
thin, white spiderweb-like strings, which characteristics first gave the 
disease the name "Rope," In many cases, however, the intensity of 
"Rope!'' increases and becomes so active that before the loaves are fairly 
cooled off they will get all soggish in the center and have a most disagree- 
able odor and a nasty taste. The peculiarity of "Rope" is that it appears 
in some bakeries only in certain kinds of bread, and the truest explana- 
tion of its character to be given is the reprint of letters frcwn those who 
have suffered from the disease : 

The following paragraph appeared in the American Miller: 

"It seems that the trouble with bread known to the bakers as 'rope ' 
is quite general in some parts of the Northwest. Not only has it made its 
appearance in Chicago bakeries, where, as a correspondent states, it cost 
one firm over $10,000 to get rid of it, but we have heard of it in towns near 
Chicago and also in Wisconsin. The serious part of it from the miller's 



464 THE baker's book. 

point of view, is that the trouble is instantly charged up to the flour, and 
causes the grocer and miller no end of trouble. In fact, most of them be- 
come convinced that the trouble is actually in the flour. As an inquirer 
stated last month, the bread becomes sour and musty after a day or two, 
and after the lapse of three or four days it gets 'soggy,' smells horribly 
and the interior becomes stringy or *ropy/ whence its name. In fact the 
bread looks and feels as if returning again to dough, which in fact is about 
what it is doing. This disease is propagated by the process of fermenta- 
tion. Its appearance may be due to climatic conditions. At least it ap- 
pears to be a warm weather disease exclusively. About the only thing to 
do is to change all the utensils used for breadmaking, pans, board, etc., 
place the bread in a different place and keep it in a different receptacle, 
and thoroughly cleanse all the old utensils. The yeast might also be 
changed as a precaution. The time of frosts is near, and when they 
come there will probably be no more complaint. Nevertheless millers and 
grocers are likely to have an ugly time with customers until the relief 
comes. A little inquiry among users will show that *rope' acts like any 
other germ disease, and that some houses escape entirely while others 
receive the contagion by unknown means. But it is not in the flour. In 
fact a little investigation will show that the same kind of flour, even from 
the same barrel, will produce sweet bread in one family and *ropy' bread 
in another." 

An English baking expert gives another view of the matter which 
we reprint here, namely, that of sanitary conditions in the bakeshop. The 
communication is giving in detail, as it may meet the conditions or 
experiences of others as dealing with one of the possible phases : 

"The disease is not inherent in the flour or in anv of the ordinary 
materials used in bread-making, any more than cholera or any other in- 
fectious disease is inherent in a healthy human being. But it arises from 
much the same causes in the first instance, viz., bad sanitation and want 
of cleanliness in the bakehouse, which, when once developed, is as infec- 
tious in bread, when brought into contact with sound, wholesome bread 
not made in an infected bakery, as is the plague to humanity. The germs 
of the disease are first generated in the mixing and kneading troughs, 
which, if not thoroughly cleaned daily have dough left that finally de- 
velops the disease, and thus infects every batch afterward made. So it 
spreads over every surface on which the infected bread is laid. A warm, 
close atmosphere stimulates its action, while a clear, cold, bracing one 
helps to rid the bread of it just the same way as with all infectious dis- 
eases. The remedy is the thorough cleansing and scalding of every uten- 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 465 

sil in the bakehouse, together with the walls, floor, etc., besides every sur- 
face on which the infected bread has laid. This done the *ropy' bread 
will disappear forever, and will not be found in the bakehouse kept as clean 
and well ventilated as all such places ought to be. 

"The poor millers whose lives have been made miserable by the un- 
clean bakers charging the flour with being the cause of the trouble, may 
rest at peace so far as this charge is concerned. I feel much sympathy 
with them. About forty years since, when milling in New Zealand, I had 
a very bad half hour from this very question of *rope' being charged to 
our flour, by a German who was considered the best baker in Auckland. 
He brought me a loaf which was so nasty that the smell of it nearly 
made me ill. Neither I nor the baker, as he said, had ever seen or heard 
of such bread before, and I was quite puzzled to account for it. Of course 
he declared the flour to be the cause. As soon as the baker had left the 
office, I went into the mill to talk the matter over with our old experienced 
foreman. On my describing the loaf he smilingly said : *Oh, it is the 
**rope'' sir. It has nothing whatever to do with the flour, but arises simply 
from the want of cleanliness in the bakehouse. The remedv is the thor- 
ough cleansing and scalding of every utensil and surface, not only in the 
bakehouse, but in the shop also where the bread had laid a few hours after 
the disease has developed in it.' I sent for the baker at once and told him 
the cause and remedy. He acted upon the suggestion immediately. He 
never had a 'ropy* loaf afterward. This was my first and last experience 
with the disease, which, as I have said, gave me a very bad half hour. Aly 
fears were soon dissipated by our foreman's knowledge.'' 

The experience of a Michigan baker is interesting. He writes to the 
Bakers' Helper as follows: *'\Ve do not know what is meant by *Rope,' 
but we had a lot of trouble with a car of flour that we had a year ago 
last summer, and we are very positive that it was the flour and nothing 
else. Our bread looked as good as it ever did. but, after it was twelve 
hours old, it would become stringy and begin to swell, and as it grew older 
it fairly rotted inside. We had no trouble with any of our product except 
that which we made out of this flour. We tried five different kinds of 
flour alongside of this one, the same night and the same process, and 
the one would be bad and the rest good. A month after we were over 
our trouble, we took some of this same flour and mixed up twenty-five 
loaves in a lx)wl bv itself and we found the same trouble with it. What 
it was we do not know, but we do know that we had no trouble at all as 
long as we did not use any of this flour." 



466 THE baker's book. 

Another letter from the same baker says : "You may rest assured 
that anything any chemist or baker could tell us, could not for a moment 
make us believe that it was anything else than the flour, as we tested it 
very thoroughly both alone and side by side with other flour. Even our 
ryebread (for while we use about three- fourths rye flour and the other 
fourth spring wheat) had the same trouble, but not until it was two or 
threfe days old, while our white bread would show it in twelve hours, and 
if one mixed this flour with other white flour it would show itself in a 
corresponding length of time according to the percentage of it used. 

One baker writes : "Presently I noticed the bread, after being drawn, 
had a peculiar flavor, not very strong at first, but when about twelve hours 
old anyone could detect it; and when it was twenty- four to thirty-six 
hours old it was a sticky, dark, and an evil-smelling loaf. On breaking 
the loaf apart it would draw out like thick paste; even a bright knife run 
into it would come out as if you had stuck it into a gum-pot, and the mass 
smelled something terrible." 

Several years ago trouble with 'rope* occurred in a Wisconsin town. 
It was discovered that flour from eight different mills were used in town, 
one or more of them being Minneapolis mills. Rope occurred just the 
same, no matter what flour was used, in some kitchens, while the kitchens 
where it was absent made good bread with any flour. In a suburban town 
near Chicago, where probably twenty or more different brands of flour 
were used, made all over the West, Northwest and Southwest, rope showed 
itself entirely impartial in some kitchens, no matter what brand was used, 
while in other houses no trouble was experienced at all. Clearly the flour 
has nothing to do with rope. 

Mr. Mainer, a young beginner, writes : "I have bad luck with my 
bread; here is the way I do: I make a straight dough, never a sponge. 
When I mix it over night, the bread turns out all right ; but when I mix it 
in the day, after the bread then gets two days old, it gets sticky and smells 
bad, not sour, but it fairly stinks. Now could you tell me is it the flour 
or the yeast ? I use Fleischmann's compressed yeast and it always seems 
to be all right. Or, is it from putting it into a close cupboard after it is 
baked? I bake it ten loaves in a pan, and when the dough is mixed, I 
let it stand about four hours." 

There is no doubt about it, the trouble with this man's bread is "rope." 
Being a peculiar, mysterious bread disease as it is, his case seems to be 
still more puzzling, because, according to his statement, only the bread 
baked in daytime is thus affected. However, as he states, "or is it from 
putting it into a closed cupboard after it is baked." Now« if he means to 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 4C7 

say that the bread he mixes in daytime, and as I understand, is baked 
toward evening, and kept in a closed cupboard until next morning, while 
the bread mixed and baked during the night is taken oft from the shop 
fresh in the morning, we very likely have the "spooks" nailed right in that 
cupboard. 

"As was to be expected, the summer's excessive heat has produced 
much complaint of *rope' in bread,*' writes the American Miller. "A Fort 
Wayne, Ind., baker sends a loaf of bread and a sample of the flour from 
which it was made. The bread showed a very characteristic case of rope. 
It was nicely baked on the outside and was light and flaky, but the interior, 
after standing a couple of days, presented a mass of stringy fermenting 
matter. The flour from which it was made answered all tests for first- 
class flour, but that is nothing unusual, for it is pretty well settled that 
the flour has little or nothing to do with the manifestation of rope." 

In conclusion of a scries of articles on "*Rope*' in the Bakers* Helper, 
David Chidlow writes : 

"In order to more fully realize the application of the laws and princi- 
ples laid down in the foregoing articles, it is suggested that the typical 
cases of rope in the bakeshop as practically dealt with should be described, 
such cases to cover respectively a large, medium, and small bakery. We 
will, therefore, take them in that order for description of methods, pre- 
facing the description with a few remarks covering the general field of 
rope conditions. 

"It seems a very peculiar condition, yet it is common, that the cleanest 
bakcshops are most liable, and very dirty ones least liable to rope. Many 
writers seem to suggest the opposite condition, usually arguing that rope 
would disappear if cleanliness were observed in the bakeshop and its sur- 
roundings; but in my experience and observation, covering over twenty 
years (during which period most of such cases would come under my 
notice either directlv or indirectlv), out of fiftv or sixtv cases I cannot 
recall more than two that occurred in dirty shops, the majority, and also 
the worst, appearing in the cleanest shops. It is important to bear this 
in mind, because a baker may assume that because his shop is clean he is 
not in any danger. 

"The commonest source of infection, assuming there is no active de- 
velopment in the bakeshop (I say active advisedly, because the rope spores 
are apparently always present, and only wait proper conditions or largely 
augmented numbers to develop to sensible perception in the loaf), will be 
from bread alreadv affected delivered to a store and laid beside non- 
infected bread, the latter returned as stale and carrying with it the active 



4^ IHii DAK.-ivS BOOK. 

spores which have power to create conditions favorable to its development. 
Secondly sources are proximity to stables and dairies and the milk sup;)Iy. 
But after all one of the primary conditions of its growlli is very soft 
dough, the secondary ones being warm, moist atmosphere, and other favor- 
able conditions. So that if general conditions seem iavorable for rope 
the points necessary to observe are: tighter doughs, more yeast, more salt, 
dough temperature medium high, and the adoption of active interference 
with the development of rope outlined in foregoing articles and following 
suggestions. 

"There is considerable delicacy among bakers who have suffered rope 
about having it made public. Of course a large section of the trade know 
the immediate cases, but my own knowledge of the feelini:^ urges me to 
respect it fully, and for that reason cannot give names, nor even indicate 
the immediate locality, where such distinction might easily suggest the 
individuals referred to. 

'*A large bakery firm in one of the middle Western States had suffered 
very much from rope, and on investigation, propositions were made sug- 
gesting steps for its reduction. The conference was held on Friday, and 
arrangements were made to be on hand at nine o'clock on Saturday morn- 
ing, with instructions to have on hand muriatic acid, four ounces of potas- 
sium sodium fluoride, and ten pounds of sulphur. Chi Saturday morning 
the wood troughs and boards were washed with a mixture of one part of 
muriatic acid to nine parts of water, washerl with water and dried with 
cloth. The iron troughs were washed with a solution C(Mitaining one ounce 
of the fluoride to five gallons of water, then dried. All trough lids were 
left off the troughs. Entrances to the flour U)ft above the bakeshop were 
carefully closed, as also were the wiiKhnvs of the bakeshop. About half- 
a-pound of sulphur was put on each of nine old pie pans. These again 
were placed upon bricks, and a little live coal dropped on each plate and 
the doors closed for about six hours. The bread room was well swept and 
dusted, and all closed places opened for free access of fumes: windows 
and other sources of cummunication with bread room were closed, and 
eight old pie pans containing about half-a-pound of sulphur were distri- 
buted through the room, a few live coals placed on each dish and the doors 
closed. This work was done simultaneously with the bakeshop. After 
about six hours, windows were opened from the outside, and after another 
hour the doors were opened, and the breeze allowed to blow through the 
shop and bread room to air it thoroughly. As an additional precaution, 
for a week following all the water used for breadmaking had dissolved in 
it fluoride in the proportion of I to 250.000 or about one ounce to two 



THK BAKHR's book. 469 

hundred gallons. This treatment immediately reduced the rope, although 
it was quite possible to get traces of it within a few davs if conditions fa- 
\orable for its development were set up. 

"The medium sized bakeshop was located in Chicago ; in this case the 
bread affected was that baked only on one floor, and a large amount of 
flour had to be protected from the sulphur fumes ; for this purpose sacks 
were dampened and placed carefully over the flour extending clear down 
to the floor. The washing of the troughs was not carried out because 
this case was not considered severe enough to require it. This bakeshop 
was about twenty feet wide by sixty feet long. Five pans containing about 
three-quarters of a pound of sulphur each were distributed over the shop 
and fired. This was done on Saturday morning, and the place closed up 
till the evening, then well aired. This entirely reduced the rope without 
anv other treatment. 

**The case of a small bakery was one located in California, doing 
about thirty barrels weekly. The flour was kept in one end of the bake- 
shop : there was no bread room ; the bread was drawn from the oven into 
boxes and left in the bakeshop : the stale bread, or bread not taken on the 
wagon, was kept in a spare trough in the bakeshop. It was in this trough 
that the rope first showed itself and finally became the source which^n- 
fected the entire bakeroom. It was onlv on verv warm davs that it affect- 
cd the bread badly. The flour was covered with empty but dry flour sacks, 
and four pounds of sulphur were burned in four parts ; the bread trough 
was taken out of the bakeshop and washed with lime water. This treat- 
ment eradicated the rope entirely, but the flour was somewhat affected 
with the sulphur fumes. After this experience, damp sacks were used to 
cover any flour liable to be reached by the fumes. The bread trough was 
afterwards washed out and kept outside the bakeshop to prevent a repe- 
tition of the slow growth of rope. 

Another baker who has had trouble with rope in bread during the 
summer states his conviction that the trouble could be avoided by longer 
baking and a cooling off of the bread. This is in line with the views ex- * 
pressed in the American Miller by an expert. His belief was that rope is 
caused by a second process of fermentation, which is assisted by an excess 
of water in the bread. His remedy was to use less water in the dough 
than ordinarily and to bake thoroughly, so as to expel as much of the 
moisture as possible. This theory has certain elements of plausibility 
which could easilv be tested. 



470 THE baker's book. 

CAN ROPE BE PREVENTED? 

"Frost does arway with the trouble. There is no chance for frost in 
August, but in its absence everything used for making bread should be 
vigorously cleansed and scalded. The receptacle for the bread should be 
treated the same way. A miller, some of whose patrons suffered a couple 
of summers ago, says that in most cases this proved efficacious, but the 
cleansing must be thorough. The taint left anywhere from the mixing 
pan to the bread box, will propagate the evil. The bread, when baked, 
should be placed in as cool a place as possible. It has never been sug- 
gested, but if Professor Lebbin\s theory is correct we should think a good 
soaking and scrubbing in ice water might kill the bacilli on the baking 
utensils." 

It has also been argued that rope is caused by uncleanliness in the 
bakery or bread making utensils. This likewise has been disproved. In- 
vestigations have proved that rope has occurred in bakeries where extreme 
cleanliness was almost a fad. So in private houses, the neatest of house- 
wives have had trouble, while the other kind haven't. How the disease 
propagates itself from kitchen to kitchen, if it actually does so, is unknown. 
It often acts like an epidemic, but that may bo due to like atmospheric 
conditions. Nevertheless it is well known that it is easily propagated. 



CONCLUSIONS ABOUT •• ROPE." 

Before the trade papers took up the discussion and inquiries about 
"Rope in Bread J' there were thousands of bakers, yes the great majority 
of them, who never observed or even heard of such a bread disease. The 
average baker, when first attacked by this mysterious bacillus refuses 
steadfastly to believe that '*Rope" in bread is caused by anything else 
than the flour. Some, however, come out frank in stating that it was 
probably or likely due to uncleanliness. Xo two hardly agreed in their 
statement and conclusions. 

If it were not such a serious matter for the fellowtradesmen, whose 
shops were thus infested with this dreadful pest, it would be really amus- 
ing to read the different stories and note the difference of opinion. To 
dispel the cause of Rope to the flour, a milling journal defends the 
millers' side with the following statement : "In an Illinois town, a few- 
years ago (one of those towns with no mill), but where each of the dozen 
grocers sell a different brand of flour, almost every family in town had 



THE baker's book. 47^ 

*soggy' bread. The grocers went crazy, almost, until suddenly the thing 
ceased entirely. How could that be explained on the bad flour theory ?* 

Mr. Chidlow suggests that a large water content in bread in most 
cases seems to be the most inviting cause of ropiness. 

Professor Jago thinks this accounts for the more frequent appear- 
ance of "Rope*' in America than in England. 

A miller in the Northwest writes : "As we had some complaint of 
ropy bread, made from our flour, during the hot weather, I had the flour 
examined and baked by the Chidlow Institute. According to their analy- 
sis the flour was not to blame. 

"I examined some of the ropy bread and came to the conclusion that 
the rope developed because the loaf was not well enough baked through 
the center, so that the very hot spell made it ferment again. If the bread 
had been cooled off and kept in a cool place, I am satisfied that it would 
not have become ropy. 

*To prevent rope during hot weather I would advise that bread be 
baked a little longer than usual.*' 

Another baker writes: "Ill-conditioned wheat is, in my opinion, at 
the bottom of the trouble, what a Michigan baker says is enough to show 
that the difficulty was not with the bakeshops. utensils, etc., but with 
just one particular lot of flour. I never heard of any cases on record 
where bread becomes *ropy' when made from Pillsbury's flour, or flour 
from any other large, high-class mill. The man who buys the wheat is 
the responsible party." 

This man's statement corresponds somewhat with the theory of the 
German scientists, who claim it to be a species of the potato bacillus, which 
comes from the earth and gets into the wheat shell. 

Here is the experience of another baker who blames potatoes and 
compressed yeast for his trouble : 

'*I cannot believe that flour is the cause of rope, for I think any baker 
should be able to tell if he has bad or spoiled flour before he uses it. My 
experience leads me to say this confidently, to avoid rope in bread you 
must aivid potatoes and compressed yeast. By this I don't mean to run 
down compressed yeast, for I know it to do good work : but would advise 
never to use it unless it can be had perfectly fresh. 

"Now to show you that rope originally springs from those two articles, 
let all concerned try for themselves. Take potatoes and flour, as one would 
use to make yeast. Let it stand for a few days to get stale and you notice 
rope starting from it. Take compressed yeast and let it get stale and you 



472 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

will notice the same thing. Now, all you need to do is to use any of this 
yeast for your sponge, and rope is bound to be in the bread. 

"I paid for my experience, and no one oan ever persuade me to use 
Irish potatoes or compressed yeast again under any circumstances. 

"I commenced bread baking in 1866, but have never stopped trying 
to learn. With the new processes of flour making we can't always stick 
to our old habits." 

An English baker, writing about "Rope" in Cakes, says : "Rope in 
cakes flourishes best when the temperature has reached over 80 degrees 
Fahrenheit in. the shade. Another point is the difference between beetroot 
sugar and cane sugar in the manufacture of cakes. In using the latter 
I have never seen a case of rope. In support of this, I will quote from a 
book by Mr. Blandy. The quotation is 'that it takes exactly twice as long 
to ferment cane sugar as grape sugar ; in point of fact the process of con- 
verting the cane sugar requires as much time as the conversion of the 
glucose into alcohol.' In conclusion, I suggest that rope in cakes is pro- 
duced by some organism coming in contact with the saccharine matter 
ccmtained therein after it has been manufactured." 

Another English baker blames the baker and unripe dough ; he says : 
**I notice the discussion which is going on in the British Baker on this 
subject. I do not see one person who has got the correct idea — namely, 
that rope is caused by the baker himself. The bread, or dough, is put into 
the oven before it is ripe, or what we call ready. If the baker will only 
let his dough come properly he will never have rope. 

"I have just had a very good illustration of this. I took the contract 
for supplying the Fleet this year in Tor Bay, another baker offered to 
bake a certain quantity for me. The very best superfine flour was used. 
They went to work to bake by night, got the dough in oven quickly — ^be- 
fore it was ready — and when it came to hand it was a very poor loaf, and 
heavy. I had to return the bread. I knew perfectly well that it would 
go ropy. We had flour which cost 3s. per sack less, and we turned out a 
beautiful loaf. The dough was well come before being put into the oven.** 

Here is another London baker's view : "Some years ago it was my 
misfortune to be at work in a baker\' where rope would assert itself in 
most of the goods produced. It was then put down to the troughs being 
old, and germs being in the crevices and comers, where they had ample 
scope for doing their work. Well, new utensils were procured, and all 
ingredients fresh for the occasion of making cakes without rope : but alas f 
rope was there. So much for uncleanliness. In the 'Open Letter' referred 



THE baker's book. 473 

to wc find it put very plain 'neither bad yeast, nor bad flour, nor dirty 
trough, will individually, by itself, give rope/ 

"Sir, I have yet to learn that to be a doubter is to be an unbeliever. 
My reason for having 'doots' is, it has not been made clear to my mind 
that by increasing the temperature beyond 86 degrees Fahrenheit (at 
which both viscos-fermentation and healthy ferments flourish best), you 
will arrest the viscos-fermentation, and at the same time promote the 
healthy ferment. 

"Now, it has been shown how wide-spread this trouble is, as *Rope' 
attacks a variety of other substances besides bread, such as milk and 
worts in breweries. One thing is generally agreed upon, that is, that 
"Rope" is a microbic disease, and that it does not develop in dough or 
bread until baked. Whether the original bacillus or the conditions that 
favor the development of "Rope'* in bread are present in the flour, yeast, 
water or any other substances they never seem to develop until after the 
bread is baked. Mr. Chidlow, who has made extensive researches into 
the nature and cause of this bread disease savs : 

"Taking a loaf or ropy bread at any stage of the rope development 
and keeping it at a temperature of 200 degrees Fahrenheit for two hours, 
entirely destroys the rope bacterium. If the bread that has been drawn 
from the oven of a 'ropy* bakeshop be drawn under such conditions that 
the loaf can be preserved from contact with the bakeshop air, it will not 
develop rope. On the other hand, if a culture of rope bacteria be inserted 
in the comer of a fresh loaf, and kept in a warm place, from 100 to 130 
degrees Fahrenheit, it will develop rope. 

"Some things favor rope more than others. Small quantities of salt 
in bread, with large quantities of sugar, favor the development of rope; 
large quantities of salt tend to delay development. There is no doubt that 
bread containing large amounts of water favor the development of rope 
considerably : although there are cases that show as great a development 
of the rope in bread containing less water, than other types of bread that 
were free of rope, such as where a tight dough made a close textured, 
slowly cooling loaf." 

By going over some of the statements and facts, as related by the 
different bakers, who had "Rope" in their shops, it seems diflficult to get 
a standard remedy which can be applied to all cases alike. The charge of 
the English baker, that "Rope" never develops when high-grade patent 
flour is used, is disproved by Mr. Chidlow, when he states: "Flours that 
make the best loaves are the most liable to development of the disease." 
However, large celled loaves, like the French and \'ienna, which dry out 



474 THE BAKER S BOOK. 

quickly, and where the air has free access to all parts readily, and cools 
it dowTi quickly, these bacteria have less opportunity for development than 
in the home-made or Pan bread loaves with more moisture and finer tex- 
ture, because they take much longer to cool. 

Two of the principal factors in the development of "Rope^' are Heat 
and Air. Rope is seldom, or never, heard of during the winter months, 
but appears frequently in damp, mucky or hot weather. Pure, fresh air 
also helps to prevent "Rope," while a damp, heavy atmosphere, infested 
with microbes and bacteria favors its development. Professor Jago con- 
firms this theory with a convincing story, related in The Bakers^ Helper, 
he says : 

"The present writer had some years ago an interesting confirmation 
of this. He was lecturing in London on certain bread-making processes, 
and for purposes of illustration had some loaves baked for him by a baker 
friend. These were brought to him by appointment at an oflSce on an 
upper floor of a business building. They arrived just hot from the oven 
and were in every way triumphs of the baker's art. They smelt perfectly 
sweet, and evinced not the slightest vestige of any sour odor. One loaf 
was broken from the batch and taken while still warm to the lecture room. 
This was warm, and crowded with an audience of about 400 people, with 
certainly not sufficient ventilation for such a number being present. After 
about two and a half hours the loaf was cut as an illustration of the par- 
ticular method by which it was made. To the lecturer's horror, it was 
found to be sour, and this part of the lecture was got over as unobtrusively 
as possible. The interesting point is that next morning the three loaves 
which had been kept in the cool office in pure air were found to be per- 
fectly fresh and sweet. The only difference between these loaves was 
that one had cooled slowly in a warm and no doubt microbic atmosphere, 
the others rapidly in a pure atmosphere. Nevertheless this difference was 
sufficient to cause the one loaf to become sour." 

As above stated no definite remedy, which can be applied in all cases 
of "Rope in Bread" has as yet been found, but the best precautions against 
"Rope" in bread and the best treatment after "Rope" has been discovered 
in a shop are: pure, fresh air and perfect cleanliness in every respect 
throughout the shop. 



The characteristics of "Ropy" bread can be summarized as 
follows : The bread, when baked, first looks all right, after a few hours 
It becomes tainted, then if left for some hours longer, it becomes sour 
and smells musty, and if the mysterious bacteria, at work in such particu- 



THE baker's book. 475 

lar infected loaf is allowed to proceed in its work, the loaf at last gets 
''soggy y smells horrid ; when broken apart, the interior is all stringy or 
"ropy," and in fact it looks and feels as if turning into dough again. The 
disease must be or appears to be propagated by and during the process 
of fermentation, but its development is largely due to climatic conditions. 
At least it appears almost exclusively during hot and damp weather. 
The *'rope"-creating bacteria, if present in the dough, can not be killed 
during baking. Every loaf contains more or less bacteria, some of which 
are not destroyed by the exposure to the enormous heat of 220 to 250 
degrees while in the oven. The "rope** bacteria appears to be still more 
tenacious and seems to thrive in the strongest heat. 

It is satisfactory to learn from some investigations of M. Maljean 
that the interior of a loaf is quite free from micro-organisms; on the 
other hand, Dr. Ufflemann found that in some bread he examined one 
microbe called the potato-bacillus, had actually been able to withstand 
the prolonged exposure to this high temperature, and had subsequently 
made its presence very unpleasantly felt in the interior of the loaf. It 
had doubtless been introduced with the potato-flour, an ingredient which 
some bakers make use of. 



476 



THE BAKEitS BOOK. 



History of nilling:. 

Translated from Das Bdckcrbtich. , 

The oldest known process of converting grain into flour is the pound- 
ing of the kernels in mortars. In the ruins of Theben a large tablet, cov- 
ering a whole wall was discovered, which gives a fair illustration of the 
milling as carried on by the old Egyptians about 2500 B. C. See Fig. 127. 




The two men to the right are busy pounding the wheat, the third one 
is sifting it, the other two are filling the mortars again. Fig. e shows a 





Vig. ije.-\VoiBtn iKiunding 



THE BAKERS BOOK. ^7/ 

Steve, turaed upside down and the cyphers in the upper comers give a de- 
scription of the process. The grain was usually roasted first whereby the 
hulls would easily separate. 

The old Grecians and Romans used the same method in their house- 
holds, but the pounding was done by the women, as shown in Fig. 128. 
which is a reproduction from the picture on an old Grecian vase. The 
bakers and millers used the handmills. See Fig. 129. 




1 







Fi|. ■ae.-Ancinit Mill. Fit. iji.— Mill •iid itixtr. 

According to other lablt-ts the power for these mills was frequently 
furnished by horses. Later on the windmills came into use. also the 
use of waterpower. 



OLD JIILLS AND NEW. 

• The milling industry is so closely identified with the bakers' trade 
that we feel that the Baker's Hook would be incomplete without .<tomc illus- 
trations of flour mills. We therefore present cuts of a mo<lern mill of the 
highest rank in this country. We also reproduce cuts of mills of an older 
date. These are especially [>ictures(|ue in their scenic effects. The mill 
and the miller, it may be added, fij;ure largely in art, poetry and romance. 
But to more practical purpose are ihc great modern mills with outputs of 
thousands of barrels a day. whose product supplies the wants of a vast 
population and reaches the ends of the earth. 



478 THE baker's book. 

Milling has become one of the greatest industries of the country. All 
of the millions of bushels of wheat raised in the United States go through 
these mills for production into flour. How many mills there are we do 
not know, but counting all the small ones scattered through the different 
States there must certainly be thousands of them. But the bulk of the 
flour product comes from a comparatively small number. The old-fash- 
ioned country mill is interesting still by reason of its picturesqueness, but 
ii is no longer formidable in a business sense. 



THE HAKINQ OP ROLLER-MILL FLOUR. 

The process of making flour in the modern roller-mill is thus de- 
scribed: The blended grain is raised to the upper floor, and passes 
through machines which separate any foreign matter, such as chaff, stalks, 
small, valueless grain, and barley, from the bulk. The partially clean 
grain is carried into a scouring machine, where it is thoroughly brushed. 
This process removes all loose dirt and other impurities. Through each 
machine used in the cleaning process a forced draught of air passes, still 
further helping in the cleansing of the grain. Before the purification is 
considered complete, another process is undergone. After the scouring 
machine is passed the grain finds itself in garners which feeds the mills' 
down shoots. On these shoots are magnetized plates which stop, and 
extract any metallic substance which might be in the grain, such as nails, 
for instance ! It is now that the mills are reached. These mills are a se- 
ries of chilled iron rollers which break and crush the grain, each pair of 
rollers crushing smaller than its predecessor. The first rollers are 
grooved, and are used more especially to break the grain so that it may 
be easier dealt with, and powdered by the smooth rollers. The effect of 
the crushing on the grain is to break the hard husk, and let out the inte- 
rior in the shape of powder. Both the husk, with what there is left in it, 
and the powder (at the first stage called semolina) are taken into other 
machines which separate the broken wheat and coarse semolina from the 
fine semolina and germ. These two portions are treated separately. The 
broken grain and large semolina are passed through other broken rollers 
and other dressing machines, until nothing is left unpassed through the 
dressers but bran. This is, for the purpose of human food, discarded. 
The finer particles that pass at each sifting from the dressing machines 
are taken on to a large silk-covered cylinder, and sifted, the different 
grades or sizes being again separated. These particles are crushed by 
rollers, and separated by fans until one common grade is obtained. This 
is called best white flour. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 




4O0 THR BAKHK S BOUK. 

THE FIRST ROLLER FLOl'R HILL. 

The Washburn-Crosby Flour Mills, of Minneapolis. Minn,, are so 
closely identified with the introduction and development of the "new proc- 
ess," or roller system of making flour, in this country, that its history is 
practically that of the growth of this industry, it was C. C. Washburn 
who first introduced the Hungarian roils,' in place of the old stone process 
of grinding wheat. 

This process was caref(diy guarded for a year. Then the small hun- 
dred-barrel test mill was torn do4vn lo make room for a complete remod- 
eling of the plant and changing to the roller process. It was only upon 




Fig. ijj.— TV WMhburn-Croiby Millj. 

sciing the machinery carried away from the mill that the other Minneapo- 
lis millers are said to have learned of this Hungarian process. The 
methods by (vhich the Washbum-Crosby Company have attained sucti 
pre-eminence are therefore of interest to the public, as well as the flour 
trade, and one must have been from top to bottom of their famous Mill 
"A," to be able to give a description of them. Their system of mills con- 
sists of five, all situated on the west side of the Mississippi River, and on 
the canal leading from it, at St. Anthony's Falls, in the heart of the city, 
on which all the Minneapolis mills are situated, except two on the east 
side. Mil] "A" is located on the site of the original mill of that name, 
which bears a tablet with the names of the victims, stating that it was 
completely destroyed, by fire and explosion, on May 2. 1878. which liter- 
ally left not one stone standing upon another, and that not one life was 
saved of the fourteen men who were employeil in the mill, to whose mem- 
ory a magnificent monument has been erected by the milling fraternity of 



THF. BAKERS BOOK. 




482 THE baker's BOOK. 

Minneapolis in Lakewood, thf beautiful cemetery of the city. The rcs 
building of this mill marked an era in the flour industry, which had been 
extra hazardous, owing to the previously unknown danger of spontaneous 
combustion of mill dust. This mill was rebuilt, with "cyclone blowers," 
or dust collectors, every machine in the mill being supplied with suction 
tubes, which carry this dust out of the mill and render explosion impos- 
sible. All other flour mills of the country have since adopted them. 

The destruction of this mill came at a very unfortunate period of mill- 
ing history, for at this time there was no flour exported by the large mill- 
ers of the country, the export trade being entirely in the hands of New 
York brokers, who would label any flour they could purchase with brands 
that would bring a premium. This system naturally brought American 
flour into a very humiliating position, for the foreign buyers found such 
wide differences in the same brand that they could trust neither brands 
nor firms. Ex-Governor Washburn determined to change this and after 
a hard fight succeeded in gaining the confidence of the foreign purchaser. 

In order to secure the bakers' trade it was impossible to use barrels, 
for thev had become accustomed to the use of sacks on account of narrow 
passages leading to their baking rooms. Some jute sacks were made 
abroad and sent to the mills. As an experiment they were packed and 
shipped back, it being the opinion of many that the flour would be ruined 
by the moist sea air if packed only in sacks, but the first shipment proved 
a great success, and thus the export trade began. It was at this time that 
the "A" Mill was destroyed, but ex-Governor Washburn foresaw the fu- 
ture of Minneapolis milling more clearly than any one of his time. He 
immediately began the rebuilding of the "A" Mill upon dimensions which 
were utterly unknown to the milling world of those days. The impossi- 
bility of marketing such an output and the ruin of all connected with the 
enterprise were prophesied on all sides. Upon the completion of the *'A'* 
Mill the Washburn-Crosby Company again took up the export trade, and 
thus this firm was the first to place its flours directly upon the foreign 
markets and gained the confidence of the purchasers abroad as they al- 
ready had of those at home by the high quality of the flour and its uni- 
formity. Like all the flour mills of Minneapolis, the Washburn-Crosby 
Company's are built of a granite obtained near by, and of the same char- 
acter as the immense blocks used in the construction of the two dams, at 
St. Anthony's Falls, excepting one brick mill of this company, and a small 
one belonging to another. Mill "A" is 250 feet long by 100 feet wide 
and eight stories high, with a capacity of 9,000 barrels of flour daily, and 
a grain storage capacity of 100,000 bushels. It has 200 rolls and 50 



THE baker's book. 4^3 

stones, the latter having always been used for finishing their fine patents, 
in order to give them high color, as well as to attain the chief aim of their 
milling process, namely, uniformity, as well as standard, thus making 
their brands absolutely reliable as to quality. Their next largest mill is 
"C," 160 by 100 feet, and seven stories high. The capacity of this mill 
has just been nearly doubled, and is now 7,000 barrels, with a grain stor- 
age of 60,000 bushels. Mill **B" is 90 by 70 feet, six stories high, 2,500 
barrels daily capacity, with 20,000 bushels grain storage. Mill "D" is 90 
by 75 feet, and six stories high, with the same flour and grain capacity. 
Mill **E" is 90 by 70 feet and five stories high, with 2,500 capacity of 
flour and 25,000 for grain. 

The present total capacity of this company's mills is 25,000 barrels 
daily. The increase has been made, not only by adding new machinery 
to Mill **C," but by putting in extra rolls here and there in all the other 
mills, wherever space permitted, whereby the additional capacity has been 
obtained. Contracts have been let for 8,000 barrels' additional capacity, 
which will make a total of 33,000 barrels of flour daily capacity. These 
mills are all nm by the same methods and kept up to the same standard 
of uniformity in quality. Mill "A" and two others have their own dyna- 
mos, and produce their own electricity for lighting all the mills. They 
have in addition to these mills two cleaning and storage houses, one 75 by 
150 feet, the other 55 by 100 feet, both seven stories high and built of 
stone. Here all the cleaning and screening is done outside of the mills, 
which are thus kept free from the dust of the wheat. It has also a four- 
story machine and carpenter shop, about completed, where all the work 
of repairing for their mills will be done. Wheat is supplied from the 
cleaning houses to these mills by screw conveyors, and from which it is 
elevated to the top of the building and drawn into the rolls as wanted. 
These rolls, like those of most other mills, are situated on the second floor, 
while the reels and scalpers are on the top floor, from which they are 
carried down through the different stories in separators and purifiers until 
the process is completed. Mill "A" does not use the plan sifter, but reels 
instead, although the former have been adc^ted in Mill "C." The milling 
of flour consists only of four processes, but of 15 grinds and reductions 
jifter the wheat is cleaned ; and the machinery for this occupies the whole 
mill except the packing-room, which, like other mills in Minneapolis, is 
on the third floor, or above the rolls, in order to be on a level with the 
railroad tracks by which their shipments of flour are made and wheat 
brought into the mills. This company makes eight divisions of its mid- 
dlings, these divisions being according to size, to enable all impurities to 



484 THE baker's book. 

be more easily removed. As in nearly all merchant-mills, the flour is 
packed in sacks for export; while over half the home trade is thus sup- 
plied, including jute, cotton and paper bags of all sizes from those hold- 
ing 98 pounds down to 33^ pounds, as they are cheaper and more easily 
handled; and the proportion thus put up is increasing every year, while 
the use of barrels is decreasing. All changes that have been made re- 
cently in rolls at these mills have been from the smaller to the larger sizes, 
as the power required to turn the large roll is proportionately less than 
small ones, and they break more wheat, according to their surface, as well 
as save room. For the economy also of room one-half of Mill "A'! is run 
with an upright engine of German make, bought at the World's Fair. It 
is of the marine type, of 4.000 horse-power, and runs the mill almost 
noiselessly by rope drivers. 

The new part of Mill "C" is thoroughly modern and an ekample of 
the highest and best type, up to date in every particular, and is the largest 
mill using the universal bolter, having 23 of these machines, for which a 
much larger capacity is claimed, a saving in space and power, with su- 
perior bolting qualities, as well as cleaner. The Washburn-Crosby Com- 
pany was the first in this country to use washing-machines for wheat, 
which were first imported from Great Britain about five years ago. The 
use of washers for certain varieties of wheat means cleaner stock through- 
out the mill. 

Besides the advantage of water-power, the Minneapolis mills claim 
superior facilities for chemical, microscopic, baking and other tests of 
both wheat and flour. Another advantage claimed for the millers in 
Minneapolis, which is the best sample wheat market in the country, and 
which will help to maintain their supremacy, is the ability to buy wheat 
on the track the year around ; while in most milling centers they are com- 
pelled to carry stocks after the close of navigation. In regard to the ad- 
vantage, once claimed by Minneapolis, of being able to ship flour down 
the Mississippi River, I am told by one of the largest millers here that the 
railroads have virtually driven the Mississippi steamboats out of this 
business. Formerly they used to ship by rail from here to St. Paul (the 
head of Mississippi navigation), paying $7 a carload for hauling it there 
and transferring it to the Mississippi packets. Now they are able to ship 
as far south as New Orleans, all rail, at within a few cents per barrel of 
the river rate ; while deliveries are certain and more prompt by the former, 
and a saving of handling at destination is more than enough to make up 
for the difference in freight. 



THE baker's book. 485 

As to the advantage claimed by Minneapolis millers (and apparently 
with truth) for their superior flour-inspection system, the laboratory of 
the Washbum-Crosby Mills has been found one of the most complete 
systems yet seen, and a description of the same will not only be of 
interest to the trade, but also to the consumers of tlour, showing what 
prepress has been made by these Minneapolis mills in reducing flour- 
making to an absolutely scientific basis. There are five different processes 
by which they inspect wheat and flour. The first one is a chemical 




test of wheat before milling to find the proportions of starch and gluten. 
This is used chiefly in testing the new crop of wheat or on wheat from 
row sections of country before purchasing the same. This is called the 
starch lest, which is for wheat only, and is used as well for milling wheat 
as for purchasing it, as it enables the mixing of (HflTercnt kinds to secure 
uniformity of product. This test is made daily. The second test is for 
moisture, not only in wheat, but in flour and bran. In the case of wheat 
it is used before buying, not only to get good weight, but not too miKh 



486 THE baker's book. 

moisture, which weakens the gluten and the keeping qualities of the flour. 
This test for flour is for its keeping qualities, and for bran also. In this 
same testing-room they have an experimental laboratory, in which several 
new processes are being developed, to find what wheats accomplish the 
best results in milling and to ascertain not only the amount but the quality 
of the gluten, as some wheats with plenty of gluten don't make good flour, 
as its two component parts are found in different proportions in different 
wheats. There is another room, known as the testing-room for flour, 
which requires samples from each mill six times daily. The first process 
here is to sample the flour by comparing it with the standards established 




Fif. 135.— Laboralorr in >tadc 

before being doughed up. This test is for color only : the second test is 
for strength and color, and is made by weighing an equal amount of 
samples of flour from each mill and doughing them up separately and 
pulling them to judge of their strength, the amount of water used Jn 
this process being weighed as well as the flour. These dough samples 
are then broken and laid upon glass plates, to be examined for their color. 
Baking test No. 3 is made by weighing out flour, water and yeast, in equal 
amounts, for each loaf of bread, which represents each sample of flour 
from each mill. All are then mixed in a dough, set to raise in proving- 
chests, heated by electricity, where perfect uniformity of temperature is 
essential to good results. Then it is left standing until properly ferment- 
ed, when it is worked down, put in pans and set to rise till ready for the 



THE baker's book. 487 

oven, which is heated by electricity for greater uniformity than any other 
method, as well as for cleanliness and celerity of handling. After the 
loaves have been cut and inspected for size of loaf and weight, which in- 
dicate the strength of the flour, and for color, they are given to the poor 
daily, five families being thus kept in bread. This completes the five 
tests ; but in addition samples of flour made every day from each of the 
mills are kept on file for reference for one year. 

The Washburn-Crosby Company also controls a system of grain ele- 
vators known as the St. Anthony & Dakota Elevator Company, whose 
president is W. H. Dunwoody, and managed b>' P. B. Smith, separately 
from the mills, although the great bulk of wheat bought by the line finds 




Pig. ij«.— The Bakini Teiti in Electric Onni. 

a market through the \Vashbum-Crosb>- Company. The Washburn- 
Crosby Company has a terminal elevator in Minneapolis, known as the 
St. Anthony, with a capacity of 2,000,000 bushels, independent of their 
elevator capacity connected with the mills, and given above. The St. 
Anthony 8y Dakota Company owns 160 country elevators, ^^■ith a capacity 
cf 5,000.000 bushels, making a total capacity controlled by the Washburn- 
Crosby Company of 7,000.000 bushels. All these elevators are situated 
on the line of the Great Northern Railway, runninR through Minnesota 
and into the Red River Valley, thus drawing upon the best milling wheat 
sections of the Northwest. These elevators were located before the con- 
solidation of the independent roads, now in the Great Northern system, 
consisting of the St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba, the Eastern Minne* 



488 THE baker's book. 

sota, the Willmar & Sioux Falls and the Duluth, Watertown & Pacific 
roads. The average annual handlings of grain by the St. Anthony & 
Dakota Company are 10,000,000 bushels, independent of the St. Anthony 
terminal elevator in' this city. 

Ip addition to the one hundred and sixty country line houses and one 
terminal elevator owned and controlled by the Washburn-Crosby Com- 
pany, they operate, in addition to their large milling plant at Minneapolis, 
a mill situated at Great Falls, Montana. This mill has a capacity of 500 
barrels daily, which is by far the largest mill in the State of Montana. 
To supply this mill they have erected an elevator with a capacity of 100,- 
000 bushels adjoining the mill, in which wheat is accumulated in order to 
keep the mill fully supplied at all seasons. Great Falls is famous for its 
magnificent water power, and when the power there is fully developed it 
will compare favorably with Niagara Falls. 

The Washburn Mills pay out daily over $60,000 for the purchase of 
wheat. Their pay-roll amounts to $2,000 daily. The combined pur- 
chases of Minneapolis mills average about 225,000 bushels daily and the 
combined pay-roll about $4,500. The Washburn Mills paid out last year 
for packages over $800,000, and it has been estimated that all the mills in 
Minneapolis combine to pay out over $2,000,000 simply for the packages 
in which they ship the flour. 

The Washburn mills enjoy the privilege of having free use of water- 
power under leases granted by Governor Washburn when he first erected 
mills in Minneapolis, and, by havinj:^ these free-mill powers, possess a de- 
cided advantage over other mills siuiatcd on the I^\ills ; but. in addition to 
the excellent water-power facilities, they are fully equipped with the most 
improved modern steam plant, which they ever keep in readiness for im- 
mediate use. Additional power can be obtained frioni the Water Power 
Company at about $1,000 per annum per mill power on long time leases, 
but the extra rate for temporary use of water power is fixed at a rental of 
$5 per day, 24 hours, for mill power, equal to about 70 horse-power. The 
relative cost between the use of water power at $1,000 per annum per 
mill power and the cost of steam power as developed by modern enginea 
is largely a question of the price of coal. While the extreme capacity of 
the Minneapolis mills is about 78,000 barrels daily, 60,000 is about the 
average, as well as the present production when all the mills are running, 
and the total production of Minneapolis last year was 16,000,000 barrels. 
The lowest price paid for the ordinary day laborers in their mills is $1.75 
a day, and the top $3.10, for skilled day labor, the average being $2, 
which is as high as any milling center in the country; but the great ad- 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



489 



vantage claimed for the mills at Minneapolis is their close proximity to 
the wheat fields of the great Northwest, the extent of which is unknown 
to the great majority of people in this country. The Red River of the 
north, its tributary and numberless small rivers and small lakes emptying 
into it, make the valley of that name (which ranges from 50 to 60 miles 
wide) the Nile of America, to which only can it be compared for richness 
of soil and abundance of crops. The Big Stone Lake, which is the source 
of the Minnesota River, and Traverse Lake, one of the sources of the 
Red River, are connected by a small river, 15 miles long, which forms 
the divide between the water shed that empties into l^ke Winnipeg and 
eventually into Hudson Hay. and that which empties into the Mississippi 
by way of the Minnesota River. I'.ut every spring, when the snows are 
melting, before the ninre northern outlet through Lake Winnipeg is open, 
the waters of this north divide are dammed up with ice and thrown back 
into all the tributaries of the Red River until they overflow the Red River 
Xalley until Hudson I!iiy opens. This produces an annual overflow like 
that of the \ile. which saturates thest- otherwise arid lands, making them 
the most productive in the country without irrigation. This is the secret 
of the great productiveness an<I fine wheat of the Red River Valley. 




THE BAKER S BOOK. 



Flour Hill Machinery. 

THE UNIVERSAL BOLTER. 

Sieve bolting machines now constitute the most important part of the 
bolting system of every mill, and among all machines of the sieve class 
the Universal Bolter easily stands first. 

The essentials in a sieve bolting machine are strength, rigidity, dura- 
bility, compactness, economy of power, ease of balancing, freedom from 
mixing and scouring action on the stock, perfect separations, effective and 
durable cloth cleaning devices which will clean the clolh perfectly with- 
out unnecessary wear, and easy removal and replacement of any indi- 
vidual sieve without disturbing other sieves. These sieve bolters meet 
all of these requirements, and none meets them more perfectly than the 
Universal Bolter. 




Fig. 138,— The U 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



491 



Figure 139 shows the Universal with one section of the case removed, 
showing one vertical section of sieves in place, and also one of the feed 
compartments at the top and one of the discharge compartments at the 
bottom. Any one sieve can be removed and replaced without disturbing 
the rest, and this of course is true of each of the other sections. The 
sections of the case are verj- easily and quickly removed. 

The case is a very important feature of the machine, it is made . 
double with an air space between the two walls. This effectually re- 




vents the cold external air from condensing the moisture carried by 
the air inside of the machine. This is very essential, as condensation 
would cause dough to collect, interfering with the action of the machine 
and rotting out the cloths. By preventing con<lensation the interior of 
the machine is kept dry and in perfect condition at all times. 

When all the sections of the case are in place and clamped they act 
like a hoop, binding all parts firmly and making all joints tight. A cloth 
lining prevents leakage between the outer ends of the sieves and the 
casing. Each section of the case is numbered for convenience and 
ensuring each being used in its proper place. 



Till; BAKEK S BOOK. 



ALLI5 ROLLER illLL. 

DESCRIITION OF SPECIAL FE.\TURES. 

The solid iron frame not only makes the machine very substantial, 
but also keeps the main wearing parts rigidly in position and prevents 
any displacement of parts on account of unevenness of floors or settling of 
building, to which machines with skeleton frames are unavoidably liable. 
The inside surface of the frame is well coated with shellac to prevent 
flour from adhering. 




THE BAKERS BOOK. 




t Mclhod! Df Diivini RkIi In Flour Mlllinr 



I, 



494 THE BAKERS BCX)K. 



Modern Baking. 

Prepared for the Baker's Book by Emil Bilvun. 

Although not claimed to be absolutely authentic, it is estimated from 
reports from various sources, that of every hundred barrels of flour turned 
into bread in this country, less then fifty barrels is handled by the pro- 
fessional bakers. This is a perceptible gain over the estimates given before 
the introduction of machinery, the building of modern and sanitary bread 
factories and the enforcement of sanitar}- bakery laws, when the propor- 
tion of the flour consumed assigned to the baker was only a trifle over 
y. twenty-five per cent. It Javs mainly with the bakers to keep on raising 

the percentage of bread baked by the regular professional bakers, until 
ultimately home, or house baking becomes a thing of the past and a 
lost art. 

There is nothing that will increase the use of bakers' products more 
than well appointed and clean bakeries, with the arrangements suitable for 
daily visitors, and in a condition to please the most critical patron. This 
is necessary to secure a large per cent, of the desired additional trade. It 
would be a pleasure for a neat, critical housewife to secure all her bread 
and pastry from a clean, well appointed bakery. People in general like 
to do business with a man who is verv considerate and attentive to all the 
desires and tastes of his patrons. His clean, well appointed establishment 
makes it quite the proper thing to do business with him, and he becomes 
prosperous through recognizing the demands of his patrons and those 
who will becomes his patrons. 

It is to be said to the credit of the Master Bakers' Associations that 
they all urge their members to live up to the sanitary laws and regulations 
and encourage the enforcements of such laws, and it is every member's 
duty to report any members of the trade violating any of the sanitary 
laws and rules pertaining to the bakery. To a great many people the 
bakeries look to be all right as long as they appear to be in a fairly good 
condition, and the dirt, disorder and unsanitary features are taken as a 
matter of course. However, there is another class whose members are 
very numerous and quite a factor in the food consumption, and must be 
reckoned with. Their standard is on a much higher plane, and their 
requirements regarding their food are more exactl y and particular. Xoi'**-^***' 
amount of argument will convince such people that a loaf of bread is 
cleaner than the shop in which it is baked, who baked it, or the store in 



THE baker's book. 495 

which it is displayed and sold, or the driver who delivers it. There is 
the main secret laid bare ; you find every successful bakery, and particu- 
larly every bakery store where high prices are charged for the goods, clean 
and inviting. But still a number of these sucessful bakers neglect to carry 
their pride further and they do not enforce such cleanliness in the shop 
and pay no attention to the appearance of the men and. their apparel. 
The shops are not thoroughly cleaned often enough, and the mixers and 
utensils in general neglected and of a sloppy appearance. Flour dust 
and grease spots, eggshells and waste paper is allowed to accumulate on 
the floor and in corners, principally in cake shops. The larger wholesale 
bakeries or bread factories as a rule are not only equipped with all the 
latest modern improvements, but the sanitary rules are carried out very 
strict and the whole building from cellar to roof is kept scrupulously 
clean, including the men, who have their private lockers and are supplied 
with facilities to take a refreshing bath at any time. In many up-to-date 
bakeries this feature has been made one of the rules, and the men arc 
compelled to take a bath and change their entire clothing before starting 
to work. The wash is frequently furnished by the firm. While the large 
bakers are far ahead in this respect of the average smaller bakery, i. e,, 
cleanliness and sanitary and general improvements, it is a singular fact 
that their product has so far been grossly neglected in the salesrooms of 
their selling agents, the grocers and delicatessen stores, which apparently 
are beyond the control of the baker regarding the handling of the bread, 
cakes and pies. Here is where the retail baker has the advantage over 
the wholesale baker, as he can display his goods to better advantage and 
please the eye of the customer. The space in this work is too limited to 
go into further details in this matter, but we will reproduce some views 
and descriptions of modern bakeries, both large and small. 

In the last ten years so many so-called "model'' bakeries have sprung 
up everywhere that it has become almost impossible to keep track of them. 
First along they were considered a distinctive city institution — white 
elephants — maintained at a great expense and principally for public show 
and advertising purposes. To-day, however, nearly every town of re- 
spectable size has its model 'bakery, and not infrequently two such institu- 
tions compete lively for the local trade. But the model bakeries which 
are really "model" in every way are still comparatively few. It may also 
be remarked here, that of late a more friendly feeling has been established 
between the proprietors of larger bakeries and they exchange ideas and 
visit the diflfcrent plants, sometimes travelling hundreds of miles to see a 
new machine or other new improvements in practical use. 



496 



THE BAKRRS BOOK. 



American flodel Bakeries. 

We reproduce here an illustrated sketch of ihe new J. B. Heydt 
bakery in St. Louis, Mo., from a neat, interesting booklet published and 
circulated by the above named firm. Mr. J. B. Heydt started in the bak- 
ing business about twenty years ago in a small shop with one oven, one 
wagon and one horse. To-day, after making extensive additions, the 
plant covers nearly a whole city block, covered with modern buildings, 
fitted up with all the latest devices for making palatable, healthful bread. 
The firm has twenty-five city delivery wagons and one hundred horses; 




employs two liumlrcd workmen, (k-livtrs lirvail Ici marly 2.OO0 stores and 
expresses bread to a great many towns in eleven different States. 

One of the most important matters observed is the cleanliness, ot>- 
served in every particular. The author of this work has found that the 
best way to give a correct description of the above named plant, is to re- 
print the contents of the J. I>. Heydt bakery's own statement: 

Health bread can only Iw made from absolutely pure ingredients. 
We subject all our flours to microscopic and chemical analysis; in this 
way we ascertain thai the flour is free from bran, impurities or starchy 
adulterants, and that the flour is rich in proleids or nutritive properties. 

Ordinary bread, unless aided, will not digest in the stomach. Its 
decomposition, being left to extraneous agents, is always imperfect or 
retarded. In order to meet this condition and make a self- digesting 
bread we employ an extract of malt. Of this we use daily the enormous 



Tlli-; UAKKKS I1<K)K. 




498 THE baker's book. 

quantity of from 400 to 500 pounds, combined with ov«r 200 gallons of 
pure, unadulterated milk. This malt extract contains in itself the same 
elements as the gastric juices of the stomach as well as their digestive 
properties. It thus assures a complete digestion of the bread within itself. 
A self-digesting bread of this nature has the most healthful effect upon 
the stomach, especially as the mah extract also acts as a corrective and 
remedy in case of digestive disorders arising from any source. Thus 
Heydt s bread is also a perfectly safe bread for invalids, since in digest- 
ing itself it not only causes no strain on impaired organs, but even assists 
and stimulates them to the performance of their proper functions. Self- 
digesting bread is also a perfectly safe food for infants. In fact, our 




Fig. Mi-— Ke"' 

bread is not only safe, but beneficial, regardless of the state of health of 
the individual. 

The next important matter is cleanliness. In cleanliness we claim 
we have reached the highest state of perfection by using granitoid and 
hardwood floors, enameled-surface brick walls, and by constant scouring^ 
with live steam and continual whitewashing we destroy all germ life. 

Our bakers wear white suits while working. We see that they are 
extremely neat in person and sound in health. 

The next question is fermentation. The only ferment we use is 
pure vegetable yeast, and we use this in infinitesimal quantities. The 
lightness and whiteness of our bread is obtained by the excessive beating 
and kneading in patented aerating rotary machine dough mixers, and the 
extra length of time this mixed dough is allowed to remain in our sta- 
tionary tempered dough room. 



lAKEKS BOOK. 



499 



Few people have a right conception of how modern heahh bread is 
made. They think flour and water is stirred up any old way, and the 
result may or may not be a success. But, on the contrary, modern bread 
making has brought to bear the advances in pliysics and chemistry. 
Twentieth century health bread is scientifically made. Our goal has been 
to make bread thai would tickle the palate, strengthen the body and build 
up the brain. It has taken years of study, a great deal of experimenting, 
and lots of money ; but we feel that at last we have attained our goal, that 
we pro<luce the best bread that is possible. 

The bread-making art is complicated, and we can but suggest our 
modernized process: First (be flour. Flours from different parts of the 
country are l)len<led. so that the blend contains the requisite proiwriions 
of proleids, fal, carbohydrates^ This blended flour is then screened 
through a rotary flour sifter ihat leaves only the cleanest and finest 
of flour. 

I'rom the flour sifter the flour is conveyed in a close<l dust-proof 
flour pipe to the dough mixer. 

With Ihese doUKh mixers we have worked the greatest improve- 
ments in brea<l making. You will note in the illustration of one of these 
dough mixers that it is a huge iron trough, of capacity to hoi<l five barrels 
of flour: requires tvvenly-five liorse-power to operate it. RevolvinE inside 









itf^ 







<l 



THK: IIAKHKS BOOK. 





this iron truii^li iirc irun iirnis or paddles, which af^ilatc and shred the 
doiij^h, ImuKinn; every panicU- nf ilic j:lyjiilin and gliilciiin tosether, fomi- 
ing the all-fssniliai j,'lHti-ii in the doujih. Tlic dough is pulled and spun 
around these revulving arms until it l)ecoines semi-transparent, leaving 
not a jKirticle of dry <ir raw flour to make thi? di.sagrecahle flour lumps 
in itie lircad. or indifxesiiUk- starchy masses. I!y means of an air blast we 
inject pure oxygenated air into the mixing dough, thus xnting and 
making what might he termed self-raising bread. 

A recent aildition lo our bakery is an improvement we originated — 
an improvemenl that is only used by one other bakery in the world, and 
that in Washington, D. C. This improvement is our dough room, built 
like a large refrigerator. The ceiling of the room is laid with two series 
of piping; one set of pipes is for ice-cold brine for refrigerating, the other 
set of pipes is for steam for heating. Thus we are able to keep this room 
at an exact, unvarying temperature during any season of the year. The 
dough is laid in troiigiis in this dough room for a specified time, at a 
specified and unvarying temperature. 

The dough is accurately weighed into loaf sizes. This is run through 
an imprnvod bread-mniililing machine, thus doing away with handling 
with sticky fingers, a'so insuring each loaf of uniform size, shape and tex- 



SPAIN 












^^S^ 



THE BAKF.K 5 BOOK. 50I 

ture. Naturally, the ovens are the most important part of a bakery. Our 
ovens are of special design ; they are fired from the rear, keeping all coal 
dust and smoke from the baking room. It is impossible for any of the 
sulphurous coal gases to enter the baking chamber, as the fires are built 
below the baking chamber, the hcai and smoke passing through tubular 
flues under and over the baking chamber; this arrangement also allows 
of delicate manipulation of temperature, so the oven heat can be regu- 
lated to a degree. We also, at limes, inject slcam into the ovens, giving 
proper moisture and enabling us to color the crusts of the bread. Every 
forty-five minutes, day and night, year in and year out, these fourteen 
ovens are refilled. 

Our plant is divided into three departments: the White Hread De- 
partment, the Rye Ilread Department and tlie Roll Deparlment. We 
have machinery specially adajited for each department, and specialized 
workmen who only work in one of these departments; of course, a man 
making but one kind of bread all the time becomes an expert in his line. 

Bread making is not a matter of chance, the in.^jfredients are cor- 
rectly weighed, the temperature of each ingredient, and the mixed batch 
of dough is ascertained, the dough is laid for raiding an exact length "f 
lime at an exact, unvarying temperature, the loaves are weighed inlu 
e.xact quanliiiL'S. and aii' tnnchiiic moulded into exact sizes; these are 





Fie 14a'--»»>illl> U a 



TIIK BAKI^r's book. 





pUcL-il in an oven ai an exact tempcraliin- for an exact Iciijjtli of time. 
Wc tiii|iloy mtn who tin noiluiiji else liiii recunl these temiieraturcs, 
wdf^lits, etc., so that we now have on tile recunls of each hatch of douRh 
mixed in our plant in the past seven years. 'Ihis is one reason why our 
bread is always the same, always f;ood; it never differs under our sys- 
tem; wo have so perfected onr hread niakinf.' that wc cannot turn out a 
bad loaf and it is a recoyiii^^ed lact. tlal we have <me of tin., hirsjest baker- 
ies, an.l one of the nm.lel hakerie> ..1 the world. 

.Aiiotiier ver> succes^^lnl hakin.i; firm i> that of j. Sdiinal;! & Sons, of 
Mphoken. N'. J., a minnle description oi' wliich apjicarcd recently In The 
Bakers' ticzicw. from which we reprint ike foHowinc: 

Considered from ihe staiidpoiiil of scieiililic methods in every process 
of bread making their [daM is one of the most model ones in this coun- 
try, livery detail of the plant is managed on a scientific basis, and as a 
fesnlt, the cost of ]>roduciion is reduced to a minimum figure. Economi- 
cal methods prevail throughout, a .stnily of which by the average baker 
wtmiil prove a revelation. On every hand will be founil the results of 
carefnl thought and a ihorongh knowledge of ihc re(|uirements of an 
up-to-date hnsiness. Especially noticeable is the tiiorough mastery of 
trilling iletails usually overlooked even hy the most modern concerns, 
("omniencing on ihe top llonr and throughout the iiiant, ending in the 
engine room, every methoi. that Roci lowr.rd making a perfect whole has 
been adopted, and as a result of this |ierfect organization the net saving 
from loss of power, waste and misapplied energy is enormous. 



£03 



The greatest source of waste in a bakery is loss of time. This is, 
of course, guarded against in a general way in most bakeries, but few give 
the matter the attention given ii in the Schmalz bakery. This is avoided 
in every possible way, particularly in the arrangement and methods for 
handling raw material. When the flour is received from the truck it is 
dumped direct on a coniinuous chain elevator, which carries it direct to 
the storage room on the top floor. When it reaches that point it is 
dumped automatically on a truck and is immediately stored in its proper 
place. Each truck |)asscs over a scale and is weighed almost instantly. 
In this manner a perfect account is kept of the Hour, and the saving re- 
sulting from weighing eacli lot often amounts to quite a respectable figure. 
On an average one thousand barrels of flour are used weekly and even 
though a shortage in lots is iliscovered only a few times a year the -sav- 
ing is considerable. I'.y handling the flour direct from the truck 
to the elevator, a car of flour containing 280 sacks is unloaded, weighed 
and properly stored in an hours time with the aid of three men. Were 
the car unloaded and handled entirely by hand the same process would 
require five men about ten hours. .X little figuring will easily show the 
enormous advantage that this economical little method alone will give 
those who use it over competitors less progressive. 

When the flour starts back on its downward journey to emerge again 
on the ground floor in the form of bread the same economical methods 
follow every stage of its process. Three Hour bins with a capacity of 





FiR. ijj.-Mauldm| Mubim 



THE BAKERS IIOUK. 




THK nAKEK S UUOK. 





fifty barrels cadi arc used for the sifting jiroci'ss. after wliieh it passes 
thnjiifi'i a cliiitc. is weiplud anil then (liiiniied ilirect into the misiiiK iiia- 
cHine witlioiii further han<llinfj, I^r^^c modem dmigh tiiixors are used 
exclusively and add considerably to the efficiency of the plant. Tlic scal- 
ing system is used for all ingredients entering into each hatch, which 
resiihs also in a further saving. All water is weighed automatically in 
a fifty-gallon portable tank that runs on tracks above each machine. This 
moiho<l insures jicrfect uniformity in results and greatly facilitates the 
dispatch in mixing. 

After ibe dough has fermented it is dumped through a chute to the 
floor below, where it is moulded and then passed to the ovens on the 
same floor. In the moulding department mo<lern labor-saving devices 
arc also used, which disjiense with a considerable amount of labor. For 
ibeir regular loaf the Thomson dough moulder turns out on an average' 
of 2,000 loaves per hour when run to full capacity with a use of only 
two horse-power. For rolls, a \'an Ilouton dough divider is used, which 
is also a great latrer-savcr easily figuretl in dollars and cents. With the 
aid of this machine one man can mould thirty-six rolls in ibe time usually 
retpiircil to cut one 

On the main floor opiwsite the moulding room a battery of Petersen 
ovens are used for the main baking. These ovens are of the most ap- 



506 THE baker's book. 

proved type and are fired entirely from the rear. The coal supply is de- 
livered direct to each oven on tramway cars, which reduces the amount 
of handling to a minimum degree. An additional battery of ovens has 
recently been installed on the second floor consisting of two Peterset> 
ovens, three Werner & I'fleiderer draw plate and one rotary oven manu- 
factured by the Dutchess Tool Co. These are all built directly over the 
first floor battery, the sam, foundation being utilized for both. The coal 
for the second floor ovens is handled entirely by a chain elevator and 
tram railway system, which delivers it direct to each oven, resulting in a 
saving of the wages of several men. The ovens are all equipped with the 
Zaubitz pyrometers and electric lighting system. 

The brea'i and slock room is connected with the wagon room by a 
chute which enables a direct delivery from the slock room to wagons, 
thereby saving time. 

In every other department throughout the establishment the sama 
progressive methods prevail whereby unnecessary expenses are avoided, 
which result in increased profits and a higher quality of the company's 
products. 

Every detail of ihe plant is run entirely on a strictly scientific basis, 
whereby attention to trifling details results in an enormous saving from 
loss of jOTwer. waste and misapplied energy. Ry this method the maxi- 
mum quality is produccl at a minimum cost, which is undoubtedly the 
most important point to be gained in any comiwtiiive husiness. 





TUl^ BAKHKS BOOK. 





1 ,!<.-<■.. 



Fij. IS9-— Cily l.oaJing Vird, No. 



Just how ihis is accomplished in the Schmalz bakery can be 
readily seen by carefully studying the architect's plans of this 
plant, iHustrations of which we present hcrcwilh. These designs 
were drawn under the personal supervision of the senior member of the 
firm, Mr. John Sclimalz, and his oldest son, Mr. Louis Schmalz. and are 
well worthy of serious stuily by all desirous of reducing bakery expenses 
or who coniemplate building. While not copying the methods used in other 
estatilishnicnts, they have studied many of iheir good points with profit, 
and have added many of their own gathered from extensive experience 
in the business. No detail has been overlooked that would add to the 
value of the plant, and ihrouj^hout the entire cstalilishmeiit there is con- 
stant evidence ui careful ihdught and a thorough knowledge of the re- 
quirenienls of a model bakery. 

l-'igure I gives a clear idea ol ibe general lloor plan of the building 
and the logical arrangement of the different departments. 1"his is the 
main floor of the building and is divided into main offices, store, bread 
room, scales, moulding room and main battery of ovens. The general 
offices are divided into two departments, the executive office being slight- 
ly elevated and built over the section marked "store" in the illustration. 
The drivers' lobby al.'io connects with the general office, which is provided 
with every arrangement to facilitate chocking drivers' returns, etc. The 
employees all enter the building through the drivers' k>hhy and register 
on an automatic limc clixk before going to their various departments. 
The main stairway is on the left, leading direct to all floors. The store 
Imilding is. of course, used largely for the sale of stale bread, but it is 



508 THE BAKKK S BOOK. 

made as attractively as possible, and h at all [imes kept immaciitately 
clean. In fact, cleanliness is one of the most noticeable features ihroiigh- 
out the entire establishment. This is impressed upon a visitor immediate- 
ly upon his enlering the building, and is noticeable from top to bottom. 
Even the entrance stairs and hall are s|)otk-ss and give evidence of con- 
stant scouring. Systtm prevails throughmii. and nowhere is it possible 
to find luniblvd up nooks and corners where dust and dirt can accumu- 




late. And bread made under such cleanly arvani^erni-nls is bound in laslc 
sweeter and better even though the public mver knuw nf tin- extra ex- 
pense it takes lo follow such nieiho<ls. 

On the right of Ibe main offices is the bread f" 
the main baking department. All bnad i> renrnved < 
steel breaii racks, and arranged in regukir nrder for >1 
considerable time in handling and enables lo.trlin,!,' <lirii't lo \vai,'ons. The 
wagon riKim is on the rigbl of tbc bread nmni. sli^blly belmv its level. 
The bread is Inailed direct to waj;iins en :in iiu-'im.! -\i-]^- c.uniecting the 
iwii departments at the iw.int marked "n >!c-,'ii-b .-I'l^irnrub 



. cnnccnng i 



This 



THK BAKtJ{ S BOOK. 




y 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 




THE BAKl-Jt S BOUK. 



511 



Mr. William Schmalz. one of the junior meinl>ers of the 
firm, save a very clear exposition of these ideas in an address 
delivered by him on the reduction of bakery expenses by the pre- 
vention of waste. Mr. Schmalz was the only member at the convention 
who said that he could make, and did make, cake-baking profitable, and 
the principal reason that he gave in support of his statement was that the 
business was conducted on the lines suggested above, whereby every ex- 
'pense was minimized, and ever)' detail reduced to a practical, common- 
sense method. The cake and pastry department is in a diflFerent part of 
the building, removed from the bread plant, and is conducted on an en- 
tirely independent basis. The general managemtrit is different, and an 



.r-^j_ 




entire new set of books is used for this depariment. In this way the 
nperating expenses of the two establishmenls never conflict, and the loss 
in one deparlmcnt is never paid for by the other, as is frc(|uently the case. 
Keeping iliLni separate in ihis way seems 10 be the only logical way to 
make cake-baking profitable, as evidenced by this company's success. Mr. 
Scliniah's remarks on this subject at the convention were certainly re- 
ceived with unusual interest, and we hope at some future time to go more 
extensively into the matter, the subject being the one real knotty one that 
the trade has been trying to unravel for some time. .\ study of the meth- 
ods used in the bread department, however, at the present time will da 



512 THE BAK^KS BOOK. 

considerable toward making the matter clear. It's simply up-to-clatL- 
bread-baking. 

In the sketch shown in Plan i of the ovens but little space is shown 
for the operating room. This is due, however, to a reduction in size of 
the drawling, in which the scale of distance had to be overlooked. There 
is a clear space of 33 x 100 feet from the front of the oven to the opposite 
wall without pillar or post. This is unusually well lighted from each end 
by large windows, and is well ventilated. The story is 15 feet high and 
the ventilation is secured over top of ovens by a hood 8 feet high running 
the entire length of the building. This leaves a clear protective space of 
seven feet, carrying off all smell and gases and adding greatly to the 
hygiene of the plant and comfort of the workmen. Ashes from the oven 
are dumped into chutes from each oven on all floors and are carried direct 
to the basement without opportunity being given for them to scatter. 

A very important factor to every one building a new bakery is 
being able to build an up-to-date establishment, small at first, but so con- 
structed that it can be enlarged gradually from time to time in accordance 
with the requirements of the business, without confusion, and with the 
least possible expense. This problem was particularly considered in 
drawing plans for the building construction. As the building now stands, 
it is nearly twice as large in operating facilities as when first constructed. 
So rapidly did the business grow after the company was established in its 
new quarters that it became necessary to almost double its facilities within 
a very short time. A second tier of ovens was therefore installed on the 
second floor, with practically no change in foundations or other construc- 
tion. The foundations for the first ovens were built with this fact in view, 
and the ground arches were of sufficient strength to support the new 
battery. The foundations are of concrete and brick. In the con- 
strtiction of these arches another economy is effected, the sj)acts 
being utilized for lockers and storage purposes. The entire main base- 
ment is used for storage, and is constructed of concrete, thereby prevent- 
ing dampness. On the right and on the same level with the basement is 
situated the power-house, location of which is shown in Plan i. Separate 
toilet rooms and lockers are provided for in this department, which is the 
neatest and one of the most well-kept ones in the plant. As much care is 
spent in keeping the engines, dynamos and floors clean as if the bread was 
made in the department. On the basement floor private lockers and bath 
for the workmen are provided, which, of course, have in recent years 
lK*come a necessary adjinict to every modern bakery. The w(»rknien must 
K-. -hsolutelv clean and healthv at al! times. 



THM B.\Ki:RS BOOK. 



513^ 



Another important point in the construction of that part of the build- 
ing used for the ovens and baking is its fireproof nature, so constructed 
independent of the other building. This entire part is made of concrete 
and iron, and ordinarily it would he impossible for a tire to originate in 
this section. As is generally known, fireproof construction is too expen- 
sive for the average bakery, and by dividing this department in this 
manner every advantage is secured without a very large expense neces- 
sary for fircproofing the entire building. As an additional security, how- 
ever, two fire lines with city pressure run through the entire building, with 
outlets on each story. Wiih these safeguards it would be hard for a fire 
to gain much bea<lway if discovered in reasonable time. 




Plan 2 fliows in rcduccil detail the general plan of second lloor. ( 'n 
the right are three Werner & I'tlcidertr draw-jila;e ovens, and on the left 
is shown two i'etersen ovens and one revolving oven built by the Dutchess 
Tool Co. These latter arc used largely for the cake and pastry depart- 
ment and handled in the establishment used entirely for this punxise. Tlie 
freight and flour elevaior are ;hown on the right and the stairs on the left 
(if the skeicb. A portable raising room i.s also shown on the left, which can 
he moved around as desired. These ovens arc operated on the same prin- 
ciple as the ones ilescribed on the first fl'>or. The row of large mixing 
tnachiiits are a'so ,s!:owu iti l'l:in 2. which do the work of the enlire 
establishment. The sifter, leading from the top floor, is also shown, the 
flour Iwing delivered direct to the mixing machines by an automatic 
weighing device which travels on an inclined railway above the mixers 
This weighing system is one of the most economical contrivances for the- 



SM 



: BAKERS BOOK. 



reduction of expenses thai has yet beon invented for the bakcshop. All 
ingredients used in each batch of dough are automatically weighed by tlie 
scales before entering the machines. This includes water, which is 
fihered, weighed and dumped from a fifty-gallon tank. This results in 
great economy and reduces the result of each baking to an absolute 
certainty. 

The top floor is used entirely for a slock room and carpenter and 
repair shop. Several expert workmen are constantly kept busy in this 
latter department, which is self-supporting, and, indeed, a pro6table one. 
Nearly all of the wagon repairing is done here, and it can generally be 
counted upon to be done well. All of the company's bread boxes and pie 
cases are also manufactured in this department, and the results secured arc 
frequently more attractive, and certainly more durable than can ordinarily 
be obtained for the same expenditure of money. A well equipped labora- 
tory and testing-room is also maintained on this floor in which all materials 
receive careful consideration before entering into the company's products. 

In order to obviate the necessity of a fourth story, which would 
have been requireil for the sifting and flour bins, a dome was built of 
light construction direcily over the mixing machines for this purpose, 
thereby completing the common-sense principles followed throughout the 
establishment from cellar to dome. 




SchmiU Bikcrr, 



Tii£ baker's book. 515 



Holland. 

Translated from Original Reports Furnished by Dir. Dr. Roeters van 
Lennep (de Haag'sche Brodfabrik), Gravenhage. 
It is impossible to give the exact number of bakeries in Holland, but 
there may be about 3,000. According to numbers the small bakeries pre- 
dominate, but if the entire production of the whole country is considered, 
the main part of it must be ascribed to the large bakeries. Especially in 
the larger cities, the steam bakeries, or bread factories, are the most 
numerous, and it is only in the smaller cities where there still exist many 
small bakeries. In Ziitphen, a town with a population of 16,000, some 
years ago there existed fifty-six bakeries and a bread factory. 

Organization. 

Holland has a central organization of master bakers named "Neder- 
landsche Brood Kocken-and Banketbakkersbond,'' with offices at Amster- 
dam, which consists of the small and a good many of the medium size 
bakeries and has a membership of over 900. The president of this organi- 
zation is at present Mr. H. Franken, who is assisted by the son of the for- 
mer President Siemons, who is well known by the trade throughout Eu- 
rope. This organization maintains an official paper, the Nederlandschen 
BakkerS'Curant. 

Flour and Fermentation. 

Principally brands of flour from domestic mills are used, but besides 
this principally American wheat flour is usfed in baking. 

In Holland the white milkbread is mostly in demand, in the country 
districts and in the provinces of Groningen, Oberyssel and Gelderland rye 
bread is the principal staple. 

In Rotterdam, Dordrecht and S'Gravenhage water bread instead of 
white milkbread, like that used in Belgium, is made and sold very cheaply. 

Fermentation is exercised only through yeast, by making a ferment 
or sponge and kneading it into the dough. 

As specialties we may mention "Kadetjes," small, soft milk rolls, 
Haag's rye bread, and sweet Haag's rye bread made with molasses. 

The principal kinds of bread used in Holland are enumerated below, 
and. which are illustrated on color plate 6 (Vol. I.). 

I. Gebuild Tarwen melk brood (Bolted wheat milk bread, baked in 
capsules, weight, i kilo (No. i, plate 6). 



5i6 



THE BAKEKS BOOK, 



i^^^Hk^'--;.'--^' 


'"^WM 


Hl^~ 


/3pj| 




wi^h/gi^^^ ^-— l-^-drt' ''-^ 




^H 



i Room (P, C. Kaiser's Bakery. Hag 




THE BAKEKS BOOK. 



, , _, ^ 


i^-i-rt..jej»y - 








d^^^ 




l^i^^-^'-- 




M 









Fig. lU.— Bikinir Room {P. C. Kiiier'i Bakery. Hinc Holtind). 




I'l nakcry. Hague). 



5i8 THE baker's book. 

2. The same 1>read, but baked on the hearth, weight i !dlo. 

3. The same bread, fluit : called flute, weight, i kilo. 

4. Gebuild Tarwewater brood; bolted wheat bread, baked on the 
hearth, weight 750 grams. (Xo. 2, plate 6). 

5. The same bread, fluit; called flute, weight, 750 grams. (Xo. 3, 
plate 6) . 

6. Gebuild Tarwemelbrood. geknipt fransch brood, weighs 50 
bolted wheat milk bread, French bread cut with a pair of scissors (No. 6, 
plate 6). 

7. Melkkadet; small milk bread, price one-half cent (No. 9). 

8. Waterkadet; small water roll, price, one-half cent (No. 8). 

9. Haagsch Soet Roggenbrood; Haag's sweet rye bread, weight, i 
kilo (No. 7, plate 6). 

10. Vienna bread, "Casino," weight, 500 grains (No. 4, plate 6). 

11. Ungebuildbrood or Kropbrood; unbolted coarse, bread, weight 
500 grams. (Xos. 5 and 5a, plate 6). 

Some of these breads are reproduced on colored plate 6, and the num- 
bers in parenthe6is correspond with the numbers on the colored plate. 

Recipe to i, 2, 3, 6. 

One hundred kilos bolted white wheat flour; 2 kilos yeast, 2 kilos 
salt, 50 quarts milk, not skimmed. 

The bread "/fuiV; flute is baked twice, i. e., turned in the oven, so 
that all four sides get a crust. 

Recipe to 4 and 5. 

One hundred kilos white wheat flour, bolted, 2 kilos yeast. 2 
kilos ^t. 

This bread is also manufactured in great quantities in Belgium. 

Recipe to 7 and 8. 

To each one kilo flour take 30 grams yeast, 20 grams salt, 20 grams 
sugar, 20 grams butter and suflicient water and milk. 

Recipe to 10. 

This Vienna milk roll, "Casino," called after its inventor, a baker 
with name Casino, is baked in tin capsules and is used for sandwiches. 

For 10 kilos flour take 8 quarts full milk ; otherwise the recipe is the 
same as for i, 2, 3, and 6. 

Recipe to ii. 

Equal parts bolted and unbolted wheat flour and 2 kilos yeast ; also 
2 kilos salt for each 100 kilos flour. 



TH£ baker's book. 5I9 

Recipe to 9. 

S*Gravenhagsche sweet rye bread is a bread made from coarse ry 
flour with an addition of molasses, that remains in the ovea for about 18 
hours and sprinkled with buckwheat bran. 



Belg^ium. 

About 2,000 bakeries are in existence in Belgium. 

According to numbers the small bakeries predominate, but according 
to quantitative production the large bakeries furnish without doubt, the 
biggest part of the daily output. In cities like Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, 
Suttich, there are from four to five bread factories for each, some of 
which are of tremendous capacity. It is characteristic that in Belgium the 
largest bakeries are in the hands of political parties. Thus, there exist in 
Antwerp, for instance, a liberal workmen's bakery, a moderate socialistic 
workmen's bakery and an extreme socialistic workmen's bakery, a bakery 
of the liberal citizens' party and one of the Catholic citizens' party. AH 
these bakeries are large establishments and in each more than 10,000 kilos 
of bread are manufactured every dav. 



ORGANIZATION. 

The master bakers, exclusive of the bread factories, form a syndicate, 
rUnion s}'ndicale des patrons boulangers. 

FLOUR AND FERMENT.ATION. 

Wheat flour is most largely used, domestic as well as American. 
Rye flour is used only in small quantities. 

Pain de Benage (housebread). weighing one and two kilos, is manu- 
factured in great quantities; this bread does not present a very inviting 
appearance, but is, nevertheless, made of a good quality flour. In restau- 
rants the large French bread, as shown on Fig. 170. is consumed. Pistolets 
and other breakfast rolls are baked in the large cities in great diversity. 
During Christmas time Speculation is manufactured in enormous 
quantities. 

Mr. J. Speltinckx. the director of "Volksbelang.** Ghent, had the 
kindness to furnish us the following kinds of bread, which are illustrated 
on colored plate 13: 



THE BAKEK'S UOUK. 



r-4j 




Fig. i;i.—R>-< Dread. (Avtdyk). 




Fw. .7--Fr.n,!: Bn-a' 



FiK- i.-J— Fine BwaJ. iSliihislt 



THE baker's book. $21 



1. — Galette — ^fine cut wheatbrcad. 

2. Pain melee — mixed bread. 

3. Fluit — flute, long, torn wheat bread. 

4 and 5. Pain de menage— common house bread. 
6 Raism bread. 

7. Imperatrice — Empress rolls, small milk rolls. 

8. Pistolet — small wheat bread. 

9. Raisin wheat bread. 



CO-OPERATIVB BAKERIES IN ANTWERP. 

Many of the bakeries in this old city are of a curious co-operative and 
political nature which hardly have their counterpart anywhere else. One 
of these bakeries is known as Help u Zelve. This bakery has a large hall 
attached. The ground floor of the hall serves as a cafe. In the upper part 
are meeting rooms and a hall with a stage. This room has a seating capa- 
city of some 2,000 people. The society has a gymnastic club, a choral and 
dramatic society, and a brass band. One or two meetings are held weekly 
in winter. The society is divided into 42 sections in diflferent parts of the 
city. Each section has its own headquarters and its own convenient cafe 
where frequent meetings are held. 

Originally Help u Zelve was a mutual aid society. Any man from 16 
to 45 years can be a member. There are now 3,500 active members in 
the mutual aid society. The members pay half a franc, say 10 cents a 
month. In return for this thcv are entitled to the services of a doctor 
and the necessarv medicines when thev are ill. Thev also receive 1.5. 
francs daily compensation while ill and free burial. The Help u Zelve. 
Co-operative bakery was started by the mutual aid society of the same 
name in 1897, the mutual aid society itself having been started in 1880. 
The bakerv was started bv 800 shareholders who contributed ten francs 
apiece. The baker>- has sho^^Ti a profit and each shareholder has received 
back five francs. The bakery has I3,ooo-oc(d customers, and these cus- 
tomers share to some extent in the benefits of the mutual aid society. 
They receive medical advice and physic gratuitously for themselves and 
their families, and in case of illness thev receive one loaf of bread of one, 
kilo dailv. To attend to the wants of their customers the societv has 
arrangements with seven physicians, also with one dentist and one oculists 
Its apothecar>''5 bill for the last six months was 3.084 francs. 



S22 THE baker's BOOK. 

The method of selling is this: The customer pays thirty centimes, 
about six cents, cash for each loaf of one kilo. The distributer gives the 
customer a ticket for nine centimes for each loaf of bread purchased. At 
the end of every six months these tickets are redeemed in cash. The sum 
of 195,777 francs was returned to customers by the society in the six 
months ending February 28. 

The establishment is commodious and well arranged. In the oven 
rooms are eight large Double-Deck Straw-Plate Ovens, each capable of 
baking 236 loaves at a time. The largest trade is on the round loaves 
known as "pain de menage," though the bakery also makes a certain quan- 
tity of a bread known as **pain du luxe," which is made of the same dough, 
but each loaf is placed in the oven separately so that it is baked with a 
crust all round. Pain de menage, on the other hand, is made by placing 
the loaves close together so that there is a crust at the top and bottom, but 
none at the sides. The operation of loading up the oven as well as of 
taking out the finished loaves are accomplished very conveniently by 
means of a rolling platform which slides in and out of the oven. These 
platforms are pulled out of the oven, loaded up with bread, and then 
pushed back again and the oven door closed. When the bread is baked 
the platforms are again pulled out and a man with a peel board rapidly 
removes the finished loaves. 

Adjoining the ovens are the large mechanical dough kneaders and the 
gas engine for driving the machinery. Next to this is the room where 
the dough is weighed and molded into shape. Tiiis operation is done by 
hand, but machines for doing the work may be added later. 

Over the bakery is a warehouse capable of holdinj:^ 3.000 sacks of 
flour. In one comer of the warehouse is a room in which the sacks are 
shaken. After being shaken the sacks are run through a sort of beating 
machine for removing the last trace of flour. Tlie flour obtained from 
shaking and beating the sacks is used for making dog bread, as it is too 
black for bread dough. 

The bakery has twenty-five porteurs or distributers, each with his cart 
and two dogs. It allows each porteur one loaf of dog bread daily. The 
carts hold from 500 to 600 loaves. 

Adjoining the bakery proper is a fine warehouse. On the ground 
floor are a number of compartments separated by wire netting. There is 
one compartment for each porteur. The bread is run into these compart- 
ments on trucks and each porteur is made responsible for the quantitv of 
bread delivered to his compartment. Overhead is a fine storeroom, with 
a capacity of 4.000 sacks of flour. The building has a tiled roof and a 



THE baker's book. 523 

large water-tank, where the rain-water is collected. This is used by the 
men for washing and for various purposes about the establishment, but 
not for making bread. 

In the office an accurate record is kept of all the transactions of the 
bakery. The list for one day shows that 21,981 loaves of one kilo had 
been baked on that day. The ingredients were 17,400 kilos of wheat 
flour and 106 kilos of rye flour; also 247 kilos of salt and 161 kilos of 
compressed yeast, known there, as in England, by the name of Dutch 
yeast. According to the balance-sheet of February 28, the assets of the 
company amounted to 947,783 francs. The principal items were prop- 
erty, including ground and buildings, 676,431 francs, and bakery equip- 
ment, 123.034 francs. 

A still more imposing building than that of Help u Zelve is a bakery 
known as Het Beste Brood, in the Napelsstraat. This bakery has but six 
ovens instead of eight, as in the Help u Zelve bakery, and it is not so 
much of a political society as Help u Zelve. Het Beste Brood has 200 
shareholders, the shares being at 100 francs each. The shareholders arc 
entitled to four per cent, and the rest of the profit goes to the society. 
Its customers number about 8,000. It sells its bread nominally somewhat 
cheaper than Help u Zelve, but the rebate given is smaller and the price 
is brought down to the same net price. From the copy of the rules it 
appears that every member, who for the period of a year has taken all 
the bread necessary for his household from Het Beste Brood bakery, shall 
in case of sickness during ninety days in the year receive his bread free, 
reckoned at one loaf per day. If he takes less than seven loaves per week 
he only receives so much bread as he generally uses. The society is 
formed by the customers who take their bread from the bakery and sub- 
scribe a franc for a sort of membership book. 

These co-operative bakeries were started by the socialists and specially 
by the advanced socialists. The latter have a society and a bakery called 
De Wacht. The socialists have one called De Werker. There is also 
another large bakery in Antwerp called the Groote Bakery. At Ghent 
there is a very large co-operative bakery known as De Vooruit, and there 
are large co-operative bakeries at Mons, Liege and other Belgian towns. 
Naturally the smaller bakeries suflFer from the competition of these large 
establishments, and the middle class rather object to them, but the baker- 
ies of the liberals and of the conservatives were somewhat forced into 
existence by the establishments of the socialists. The socialist bakeries 
endeavor to establish a reserve fund for strikes and to supply bread free to 
their customers during strikes. 



524 THE baker's BOOK. 

Nothing but Belgian flour is in the warehouse of Help u Zelve^ though 

some American flour is used, which has given satisfaction. The Belgian 

bakers do not pay much attention to the yield of bread obtained from 

flour, but more to the actual cost of the flour. The flour purchases are 

regulated by a committee of three of the directors. 

The above sketch is extracted from an article of Mr. Kingsland Smith, in the 
Northwestern Miller. 



Baking in Italy. 



By Messrs. Del Negro and Parrocchetti, Milan. 

It is impossible to give the exact number of bakeries in Italy, as there 
are absolutely no statistics of the trade, besides this, there is considerable 
home baking done in the country districts. 

Small bakeries predominate; without doubt, large bakeries are few 
and far between ; they are principally in the seacoast towns, such as 
Genoa, where there exists a large ship's cracker bakery. Outside these 
towns large bakeries only exist in Lombardy. There some of the baker- 
ies are somewhat up to date, although many parts are still of the most 
primitive character. In the other parts of the country large bakeries are 
a rarity, being for the most part consum bakeries or bakeries belonging 
to large flour mills. It is, therefore, very difficult in Italy to drive the 
small bakeries to the wall, because customers are used more than any- 
where else to have bread delivered in small quantities at the house and 
expect long-time credit. 

As we have already said, there are several large bakeries at Milan,, 
equipped with dough-mixing machines and partly, also, with steam ovens. 
For the largest part, the old-systems ovens are in use, even there where 
dough-mixing machines are a necessity (on account of the very stiff 
doughs that are peculiar to Italy). 

In Italy work is also carried on during the night. In bakeries, where 
both common and fancy bread is made, the two branches are kept separate. 

ORGANIZATION. 

In almost every city the master bakers have some sort of organiza- 
tion, but there exists no national organization in Italy. 

In Milan all the proprietors of bake ovens have formed a close co- 
operative society, which takes care of the members' interests and trans- 
acts whatever business is necessary with the city government. The 
society also fixes the average weekly market price and settles on the bread 



THE baker's BCX)K. 525 

prices after consultation with the city authorities. All differences be- 
tween employers and employees are settled by the executive committee of 
the society. 

A very progressive step, which has rendered bakers good service, 
has been the establishment of a flour-testing laboratory, under manage- 
ment of a capable chemist, who has to examine all flour submitted as to 
its moisture or absorbing qualities. 

Judge Luigi Baroni, councilman of the city of Milan, is the leading 
spirit of the master bakers' organization at Milan, and who has the inter- 
est of the baking fraternity at heart and has already rendered good ser- 
vice to them. 

FLOCR AND FERMENTATION. 

Rye flour is quite, if not absolutely, unknown to the Italian baker, 
but considerable common wheat flour is used for bread-making; in the 
country districts the farmers also use maize flour. The wheat flours 
mostly in use are No. i and Xo. 2, from which varieties the common 
bread is made in all kinds of shapes. For fancy breads and so-called 
Vienna bread flours Xo. o and Xo. 00 are used. For very common bread 
and bread eaten in prisons, flour Xo. 3 and Xo. 4 is sometimes taken. 

There is very little diflference in the preparation of the doughs, but 
there is an unlimited variety of kinds and shapes, as is the case in Tyrol 
and also in Spain. Without doubt Italy carries oflf the palm in the mat- 
ter of variegated and fantastic bread-shapes. On colored plate No. 14 
a number of these are shown, which were furnished by Messrs. Verga 
& Moltcni, bakers at Milan. 

The doughs, from which bread is made, are as a rule very stiff ; the 
percentage of water being hardly 30 per cent. Only in Milan and Courd 
bread of less density is made. To properly work these stiff doughs 
dough-kneading machines are a necessity; very often bakers are com- 
pelled to use roller machines, which have also to serve as dough-breakers. 
Strong, well-built machines for ver>' stiff doughs, as they are well-known 
in Germany and partly introduced into Italy also, would work this stiff 
dough without the addition of rollers, but they are not so well known. 
As bread is made from wheat flour and is very dry, only bread of little 
weight can be manufactured, because bread of greater weight would dry 
out too quickly and become unpalatable. 100, 200 and 400 gram are the 
weight mostly used for evcry-day bread made from wheat flour Nos. I 
and 2 ; still smaller are the finer qualities of bread, made from flour Nos. 
o and 00. 



5^6 THE baker's book. 

What we have so far said, refers only to the genuine Italian bakeries, 
and it must not be forgotten that Italy has become quite an international 
country through the influence of travelers and that there are bakeries in 
all larger Italian cities, which manufacture all imaginable kinds of breid. 
especially Vienna bread and rolls. In Milan, for instance, the better-class 
restaurants and cafes have formed among themselves a co-operative bak- 
ery, in which all kinds of baker}' goods are made according to the Vienna 
system. German Rye bread as well as English loaves are obtainable in 
Italian cities that are much frequented by visitors. 

The Italian baker, as a rule, uses a sour dough, which is freshened 
up about every four hours. For finer bread pressed yeast is frequently 
used, which is obtained from Paris and from a factorv in Padua. The 
breads pictured on colored plate 14, which are made of flour No. o, 00, 
I, 2, and 3, are Vienna bread, workingman's bread and maize bread (so- 
called Pane di incotura). 

In the seacoast cities large quantities of a certain Zwieback (Galette) 
are made, which require a very stiff dough. They weigh about 200 
grams each. 

As a specialty peculiar to the city of Milan we mention the celebrated 
"Panettone." a fancy bread, made up in the shape of a beehive, which at 
Christmas time, is exported by certain bakeries by the carload to all parts 
of the country and which takes the place of the German Christmas stoUen. 
But Panettone are also made during the rest of the year by the better class 
of Italian bakers. They are prepared of a very rich dough, containing 
plenty of eggs, butter, sugar, raisins and the very finest of flour. 

We reprint herewith part of an article by Mr. Chas. A. Green in the 
Confectioner^ and Bakers' Gazette. London : 

BAKERS IN ITALY. 

That the average Italian bread is made the worst in the world, with 
the possible exception of that of Greece, is fairly well known, and it has 
kept up its reputation well ; dark in color, and made in the shape of large 
buns about a foot in diameter, it is about as uninviting as it could possibly 
be made, yet, notwithstanding this, the natives want it so badly that in 
many towns rioting and looting of the bakers' shops for this bread that 
would not be eaten in the United States is of frequent occurrence. 

Parliament has reduced the duty on wheat to 5 lire, which is equal 
to 4s. per cwt., and the duty on flour to 8 lire, or 6s. 4d. At Ancona the 
bakers refused to bake bread, and the public pillaged and btunt the 
bakeries, so the bread had to be baked in the militarv ovens. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 527 

The cake and small goods makers display more taste in their pro- 
ductions than the trade in England, in fact, their piping and ornamenta- 
tion seemed to be equal to any in France, which country is notably in 
advance of England, as there are many opportunities of verifying. 

The bakers- ovens are exactly the same now as they were before 
Christ, and more than 2,000 years of the highest civilization known to 
human beings have passed without effect on the baker of Italy, as there 
is really not the slightest difference between the ovens dug out of the 
ruins of Pompeii and those wood burning ovens used to-day in hundreds 
of country places at home. 

Bakeries and ovens can be seen that were buried by the dust and 
ashes of the volcano \'esuvius in the year a. d. 79, and one can confidently 
say that with a few shillings' worth of repairs it would turn out equal to 
any wood oven in England, and one of our own bakers would find himself 
quite at home with it. Near the oven stood stone corn grinding mills. 
The grain was poured in at the top, and the upper millstone was revolved 
by means of poles stuck in holes at the side, being, of course, worked by 
human labor. 

Two bakeries have been dug out at Pompeii, of which illustrations 
are shown in Vol. I., and they are nearly exactly alike, and each contains 
stone mills for grinding corn, showing that in this town, at least, every 
baker was his own miller, and it will, therefore, be safe to assume there 
were no tied houses in those happy days. 

The conditions under which the employees work in Italian bakeries 
are not nearly so good as in our own country. Women deliver most of 
the bread, and in one small Alpine town, one can see a sleigh drawn by 
two oxen used for delivering bread, and it is nothing unusual to see a 
donkey, mule and ox harnessed together drawing one cart. 

A baker's tomb discovered in 1838 is interesting; it is directly in 
front of the middle pier of the Porta Maggiore, one of the gates entering 
Rome. The baker who erected this monument to himself seems to have 
made a considerable fortune in his trade. According to the good 
old custom he was not ashamed of his calling, but built a species of 
trophy for himself out of the utensils of the trade by means of which he 
had attained to wealth and respectability. The hollow drums of pillars 
let into the superstructure, which rests upon double columns, seem to 
represent vessels for measuring fruit, and the inscription found beside 
them agrees with this conjecture, as it states that the mortal remains of 
Atistia, the wife of Eur>saces, were deposited in a bread basket. In fact 
everything was represented that appertained to a baker's trade. 



528 ^ THE baker's book. 

This is rendered the more interesting from the circumstance of the 
tools and appliances represented being in many cases exactly the same as 
those in use at the present time — the bakers in Italy usually adhering to 
the customs transmitted to them bv their forefathers. 

The inscription on the architrave, stating this monument to be that 
of M. Virgilus Eur>saces. purveyor of bread, is repeated three times. A 
relief of the baker and his wife are to be seen on the right of the road. 



Baking in Spain. 



Translated from the Original Reports of Mr. Francesco Henckel 

(Firma G. Daverio) Barcelona. 

It is impossible to give the exact number of bakeries in Spain as in 
that countries all statistics concerning the baking trade are missing. 
The city of Madrid, with a population of 450.000, claims about 280 
bakeries. Compared with other countries, the progress in the baking 
industry is not manifest, as the Spanish bakers in Spain have been away 
behind the times. 

The more south one gets, the more manifold becomes the shape of the 
sour bread, also smaller; in the country, though, round loaves of from i 
to 2 pounds are used almost exclusively. 

A beautiful and rich collection of bread used in the capital. Madrid, 
the "pan de familia/' has been furnished through the courtesy of Mr. 
Francisco 'de la Fucnte, proprietor of the *Tahona de las Descalzas," and 
purveyor to the royal household. 

These different breads are illustrated on colored plate 18, and are: 
No. I, librcta {from pound; Spanish, libra); No. 2, pan dc Costilla: No, 
S^ pan dc Castillo: No. 4, Coloncs (from Christopher Columbus) : No, 5, 
bonete (from bonnet) ; No, (5, trcnso (tresses) ; No. 7, pan rajodo (split 
bread) ; No, 8, rosea (pretzel) ; No. 9. panccillo alto, or pan de tavema 
(high bread or wine-room bread) ; No, 10, panccillo largo, or pan de mesa 
(long bread or table bread). 

Besides these there is a bread, **biccochata/' used, of almost similar 
shape as the Berlin Kneuppel. only a little broader, but of the same 
weight and color as all the rest ; and the ''panccillo pinchado/' a round 
bread which has been pierced by a needle. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 529 

These different kinds of bread are used by families, be they rich or 
poor; with the exception of No. lo, they are all made of the same flour 
resp dough, and are characteristically Spanish. 

Generally they weigh 250 grammes, loaves of larger weight, as for 
instance No. i, are not so much in demand; those of 500 g^rammes 
very seldom. 

The flour used is pure wheat flour from so-called soft wheat (65 
to 70 per cent, drawn). The panecillo largo. No. 10, is very similar to the 
so-called French bread, and is highly esteemed by the public. It is baked 
three times daily, while the other bread is fresh only once or twice a day ; 
the people generally prefer to ach the bread warm, and that is the reason 
why it is not salable the second day. 

Bread No. 10 differs from others mainly in that the so-called strong 
flour has been used for making it with less sour dough, but with more 
water. 

Besides these characteristic kinds of bread, "pan de lujo," "pan de 
Vienna," 1. e.^ luxury bread, Vienna bread, French bread, Imperial rolls, 
etc., are manufactured in all kinds of shapes, which are well known to 
most of our readers. 

For the manufacture of these luxury breads, French or Austrian 
workmen are preferred. 



Large bakeries are only found in some industrial centers; machines 
and bakeries working with machines of any consequence exist only in 
Bilbao and Gijon. In the first named city thei^e are two bread bakeries 
with a daily capacity of 100 meter-zentner flour each. In this case whole- 
sale manufacture is forced by the circumstances that bread of one and 
two kilo weight is most in demand. 

Altogether different from this it is in Barcelona, where only small 
bakeries exist, and machines, such as dough-kneaders, dough dividers or 
modem bake ovens, are an unknown quantity. Experiments with modem 
bake ovens and machinery have proven fmitless, as there exists a certain 
prejudice, however unjust, against machine-made bread. Still, people 
demand a bread that looks well and has been well baked. 

In Madrid, as also through the whole central and southern portion of 
Spain the small bakery predominates. 

Mr. Francisco de la Fueoto, probably one of the largest bakers in 
Madrid, employs about twenty-five hands; but with the exception of a 
pair of rollers for the Spanish bread, everything else is worked by band. 



530 THE baker's book. 

The same conditions prevail in all other bakeries. Wherever kneading 
machines are used, they are only so-called, as they are in reality nothing 
but mixing machines. 

In a stationary tub (arranged to half topple over) an axis with iron 
fingers revolves, which mix the mass for about fifteen minutes ; after this 
the dough is worked out by means of a pair of rollers. These are very 
primitive rollers with a horizontal, smooth pair of rollers; the dough, 
which is fed in from above is taken away below by hand and put again 
between the rollers. This operation is repeated about a dozen times, until 
the dough has a uniform consistency and is ready for further manipula- 
tion. This is therefore more like a biscuit dough, and the bread, in conse- 
quence, looks very much like biscuit. The motive power for such machines 
is usually furnished by mules or hand power ; lately gas has been utilized 
and electric motors find their way into the bakeries. This roller machine 
is found throughout Spain and seems to be absolutely necessary to obtain 
the stiif consistency needed for the Spanish bread. 

The loose dough is almost exclusively worked by hand, for the rea- 
scm that good kneading machines are as yet unknown in Spain. 

To oifset this, there exists a machine called "Fresadora," which may 
»be useful enough, but which, on account of its high price is not intro- 
duced frequently. The dough passes through a pair of rollers, which 
are not smooth but provided with wave-like grooves, and falls upon an 
endless ribbon, which conducts the dough on a second pair of rollers 
opposite the first one ; after passing through this second pair of rollers, 
the dough again falls upon an endless ribbon, which runs next to the first 
one, to be conducted again through the first pair of rollers. Through 
being carried along in a thin sheet (about two to three cubic metres) on 
the ribbon, it is intended to aerate the dough. In this way the dough 
passes through each pair of rollers about ten to twelve times, gets a nice, 
brilliant appearance and becomes quite elastic. 

Such a machine is not suitable for large bakeries, as it would take 
almost an hour's time to work through dough weighing about 200 kilos 
on the machine. Motive power needed, one horse-power. 

There are very few bake ovens of modern construction in existence; 
almost all have stone foundation and arches, with a direct wood fire. A 
well-known brand of coal ovens is that called "Urpi," invented by some- 
body in Barcelona, which has a fireplace sideways, ». c, to the right or left ; 
next to the opening there is a fireplace on both sides ; the fire goes directly 
through the oven, which can only be worked after the fire has burned 
down. 



THE baker's book. 53 1 

A quite well-known oven is the one manufactured by J. Srala i.i Bil- 
bao, with round, movable base, i. c, turning around on axis, made of fire- 
proof stones, thus it is similar to the system Boland. 

There is no national organization of all the Spanish master bakers. 
In almost every large city there exists a "gremium," a local organization 
of master bakers, to protect their interests; but the workmen are also 
organized and strikes are of frequent occurence. 

A general trade paper does not exist anywhere ; only lately a baker 
journal, El pmxadcro, has been started which is a private enterprise. 

Something which exists nowadays only in large centers, is the rule 
here : that after a short while ago every large baker owns his own flour 
mill for private use only ; many still stick to this custom, while some have 
their flour milled in the great, newly established mills or buy the ready 
flour outright. 

Of late the Spanish baking industry is making greater strides for- 
ward, and especially is this true about the milling industry during the 
last ten years. New and excellent mills, especially in the coast cities, have 
been erected, for instance, at Barcelona Valencia, Bilbao; and yet the 
interior has not stood back. So we find at Saragossj^,, Madrid, and Val- 
ladolid, modem and up-to-date milling establishments. As these are 
mostly new works with steam power, it is evident that without exception 
the roller system was introduced. 

The celebrated windmills of "La Mancha," against which once upon 
a time the renowned Don Quixote fought, have long since ceased lo 
exist ; the stones and milling gangs seem also destined to oblivion, ex- 
cept in out-of-the-way mountain hamlets; for, also in roller mills there 
are no stones used for certain operations, as is the case in some countries. 

Inasmuch as only a few grades of flour are in demand, at most only 
three, sometimes only one grade, the whole milling system could be very 
much simplified and is almost everywhere quite automatic. 

In the mills just mentioned wheat is almost exclusively millM ; in the 
coast cities much wheat from foreign countries; flour is protected by 
an import duty of 12 pesetas — about $240 per 100 kilo. 

Very little rye bread and maize bread is consumed, and only by the 
mountaineers of Galicia and Austria and the people in the country districts 
generally. 

Flour is pretty high-priced and costs nowadays : la wheat flour, 65- 
70 per cent, drawn, from 38 to 40 pesetas (i peseta equal to 20 cents), 
100 kilo for so-called soft flour, and from 42 to 44 pesetas for strong flour 
(made from Russian or Aragon wheat). In consequence of this, bread is 



53^ THE baker's book. 

not very cheap and costs in cities like Madrid, Barcelona. Valencia, etc., 
30 centimos (6 cents) a kilo for the so-called "pan de Familia/' or 
family bread. 

The Spanish baker generally uses a sour dough which, according to 
the weather, has to stand from 15 to 20 hours, after which time it is 
freshened up three times through the addition of water ; the last f reshen- 
ing-up takes place two hours before it is used. The worked-out bread is 
left standing in the bake-room for about 20 to 30 minutes before it is put 
in the oven ; the water used is fresh, that is, just as the well or the city 
hydrant furnishes it. Time of baking from 40 to 45 minutes. 

For the preparation of the so-called **luxury" bread, artificial yeast, 
^'levadura," is used, which arrives almost daily fresh from Paris. 

The so-called "pan de Castilla," or Kastilian bread, is not as generally 
consumed as the "pan Catalan," or Katalonian bread, which is similar to 
French or Belgian bread. 

For explanation we may say that the "pan de Castilla" is made from 
soft domestic wheat flour, worked with sour dough and little addition of 
water, only about from 30 to 35 per cent. It is solid and without holes, 
and very little kneaded ; but it is also without gloss because no steam is 
used in the oven ; the color of the bread is light. 

In Barcelona the so-called "pan de casa," house bread, in loaves of i, 
a and 3 pounds, is more generally used, in round or long shapes. Besides 
this, small breakfast and restaurant bread, Vienna bread, etc., are con- 
sumed, as in all other countries. 



Baking in Norway and Sweden. 

Translated from original reports of Mr. H. Hansen, Christiania. 

There are about one thousand bakeries in Norway, not counting the 
home bakeries. 

Small bakeries everywhere predominate; but since the year 1895 
machines and steam ovens have been introduced into many bakeries of 
Norway, thereby making a beginning with the manufacture on a 
large scale. 



THE baker's book. 533 

Up to the year 1899 only local associations were in existence, but in 
that year a national organization, with local associations as subordinate 
branches has been perfected. 

The national organization is managed by an executive committee, 
consisting of seven bakers selected from the different parts of the country, 
namely, Christiania, Christiansund, Havanger, Bergen, Trondhjem, with 
offices in Christiania. ^ 

Rye flour of finest grades and wheat flour from American, Hun- 
garian and German mills are commonly used. 

The kinds of bread mostly in demand are : Rye bread, wheat bread, 
rye zwieback, wheat zwieback ; outside of this the Norwegian bakeries 
show many varieties, and lately many foreign kinds of bread have been 
introduced, especially as luxury bread. 

For rye bread sour dough is most commonly employed; otherwise 
compressed yeast is used everywhere. 

The most important specialties of the Norwegian bakery, the rye 
bread so-called household bread (Hiisholdningsbrod), also the fiilekager 
(Christmas cakes). Vorterkager (Spice cakes), and Franskbrod. 

On colored plate 16 the following specialties are illustrated: 

I, The new bread used by the army; 2. Franskbrod (price 4 cents) ; 
3, Franskbrod (price i^ cents): 4. Franskbrod: 5. Hiisholdningsbrod 
(household bread with an addition of bran): 6. Fulekager (Christmas 
cakes) ; 7, Franskbrod (price 6 cents) : 8 and 9, Vorterkager (Spiced 
loaf). 

About the conditions existing in the bread and cake bakeries of 
Norway. Dr. J. Reichbom-Kjennerud. an officer in the health department, 
has issued a small book in 1895. which had quite some influence as far 
as sanitary improvements in the bakery business were concerned, be- 
cause it laid bare quite a good many nuisances, which the author had 
come across in the course of his extended experience. The health depart- 
ment then took hold of the matter and exercised a strict and often unjust 
supervision over the bakeshops and the conducting of the baking trade in 
general. Notwithstanding this. NorA%'egian bakeries pushed rapidly for- 
ward and will, on an average, stand a comparison now with the best in 
many other countries of Europe. 

The first model baker>' in Norway was equipped in the year 1895 by 
Werner & Pfleider. Cannstatt, for H. Hansen in Christiania, which 
has proven eminently satisfactory and has been widely imitated 



Ttl[£ BAKERS BOOK. 




I .....M.^^.-BAGtR^-^.B^ pa 



Dr. Kjennerdd never lost 
his interest in the baking indus- 
try, and became an ardent cham- 
pion for the introduction of a 
rye bread : whicii has been 
tested during the army manteu- 
vres. This new bread (No. i, 
colored plate i6) is somewhat 
similar to the rye bread popular 
in South Germany and Austria, 
and is made from pure rye flour 
of ziYi Kleienabzug, fermented 
partly with sour dough and part- 
yeast, put in the steam 
oven and afterwards fully baked 
ith open drafts. The bread is 
. ig. ijj. Lao.i lo. > . ...curtau. ^^^^ ^^^^ feccived evefy wheFc, 

and it is preferred to the old style kind. 

a. Gerstal bread ( Hiisholdningsbrot ) is made either with sour 
dough or with yeast, formed into oval shape, then put on boards, and after 
a short proof on the boards, pushed on the boards into the oven between 
two fires so that the loaves get a thin, leather-like crust; after this it is 
cut on the bottom, turned over, washed on loj>, cut across with three or 
four slashes, put in an oven well heated and well baked. It is a nice bread 
of excellent flavor, but it is difficult to get it fresh as it easily dries out 
quickly, and as the boards on which it is placed first, are always burned, 
it follows thai those bakeries where this kind of bread is made do not 
look as clean as the others. 

b. Kulekager (Christmas cakes). Take one quart good milk, 500 
grams raisins. 250 grama Sucade, 500 grams butter, 250 grams sugar, 
some spices, the best American or Hungarian wheat flour and compressed 
yeast. The dough is made up round, cut on all sides, flattened in the 
center, then washed with egg and baked in the oven after the bread. 

c. \'6rterkager (Spice cakes) are made from one-third wheat, two- 
thirds rye flour, one-half quart cane syrup to one quart of water, and 
yeast. Spices may be added to taste. 

d. Franskbrot (French bread) is a roll dough, made from milk and 
finest wheat flour, 

A Norwegian specialty, especially in the neighborhood of Bergen, 
are the "Vand Kringle" (water pretzels), shown in Fig. 174. They are 



THE BAKEKS BOOK. 



535 




CO 



made from wheat flour with a little yeast, salt and 
water and the dough worked very stiff like zwie- 
back dough, which is usually done by a brakf. 
After forming them, the'prctzels are cooked and 
baked in steam.same as the Laugenpretzels. These 
pretzels are baked in great numbers in the western 
part of the country and taken along on long fish- 
ing trips as staple bread. 

A Swedish specialty, which has also found 

favor in Norway, is shown on Fig. 175, and i» 

called: 

Knakkcbrot. This is made from flat-milled, very short rye meal, 

worked up with yeast, and is worked cold and thin, so that the dough is 

like grits. From this dough pieces weighing about 10 ounces are broken 

off, rolled out with a 
roller with edges 
which fix the thick- 
ness of the cakes, then 
primed through with 
another roller, which 
is provided with nails 
(docker), .^fter this the 
dough is cut in round 
or square pieces and a 
round piece cut out of 
it. in centre or upper 
half, and put in the hot 
oven. After being 
baked, the bread is 
strung on long poles 
and kept in a drying- 
room until thoroughly 
dried out. In modem 
Fi,. .7,-Kn.kk.bmt. bakeries chain ovens 

for baking and kneading machines for the kneading of the dough are used. 
The rolling and pinning, as well as forming is still done by hand, as the 
dough is too thin to be able to use machinery. Knakkebrot is consumed 
throughout the whole of Scandinavia and the export is also quite ex- 
tensive. 




536 THE baker's .B00K« 

SWEDISH BREAD IN AilERICA. 

It is not generally known that the sale and manufacture of Swedish 
bread in America has within the last few years developed into an industry 
of great importance. Only a few years ago when the Swedish people in 
America, desirous for the soft, Swedish bread, cakes and cookies of their 
fatherland, were forced either to make it themselves or be content with 
the antiquated variety shipped from home. But all of this has changed 
within recent years, and Swedish- Americans of to-day are daily supplied 
with the choicest cookies and bread of their liking, fresh from bakeries 
which have been built especially to supply their demand. 

Oscar G. Petterson is the pioneer manufacturer of Swedish bread in 
this country, and the Petterson Swedish health bread has become a house- 
hold word among Swedish-Americans. The output of this bakery in 
Cambridge. Mass., is the largest in the United States, and its products 
are widely known. Nearly all of the Swedish health bread sold in this 
country is furnished by this concern, and the capacity of the plant is being 
constantly increased to supply the demand. The present plant consists of 
an attractive three-story brick-structure, which is used exclusively for 
the bakery. Inside of the plant everything is arranged on the most 
systematic basis, and every corner is utilized to valuable purposes. Abso- 
lute cleanliness is observed throughout the plant. On the top floor the 
whole rye is first let down from bins and passed through grinding 
machines until thoroughly pulverized. From the grinders it is in turn 
transferred to the mixers, which proceed to prepare the flour for baking 
by converting it into dough. While fresh from the mixinc: machines, 
before there is opportunity for any settling of the heavier substances, the 
dough is taken in hand by a dozen or more men, who roll it into size and 
shape. The health bread is flat and circular in form, resembling a circu- 
lar saw without teeth. The dough in this condition is then carried to the 
oven and baked to a crisp. When finished the loaf resembles a huge soda 
cracker baked brown, with a hole in centre, this is the Knakkebrod men- 
tioned above. The oven used in baking is also similar to the kind in use 
for cracker baking, resembling a Ferris wheel constantly revolving. 
(Reeloven.) 

As soon as thoroughly baked, the bread is then strung on poles which 
run through the hole in the centre of each loaf, and is then left in a 
specially-constructed drying oven. Experience has shown that the crisp- 
ness of the bread loses its vigor if not thoroughly dried after baking, but 
by this drying arrangement, which is original with Mr. Petterson, the 



THE baker's book. 537 

bread is as hard and crisp as could be desired. After drying, the finished 
product is then packed in boxes for shipment. The bread goes to all 
parts of the country, and the demand is constantly growing. 



Swiss Bakeries. 



TRANSLATED FROM ORIGINAL REPORT OF MR. HANS ART, BASLE. 

In Switzerland there are between 3,600 to 4,000 bakeries, not count- 
ing the home bakeries, of which there are quite a number. 

Small bakeries without modern improvements or machinery are 
predominant to a great extent, and only in the larger cities, like Basle, 
Zurich, Lausanne, St. Gall. Luzerne, and in some places where there is a 
large concentration of work people, like Olten, Riel. Chaux de Fond, etc., 
there is some competition through cooperative societies and corporations. 

ORGANIZATION. 

There exists dn organization of Swiss master bakers, which regulates 
the apprentice system and takes care of the other interests of the bak- 
ing industry. 

The officers of the Swiss master bakers' organization are elected 
every three years, and the headquarters are changed to a different city 
after every election. 

FLOUR AND FERMENTATION. 

Very little domestic wheat flour is used, the bulk being imported from 
Gennany and Austria, and some from America. Comparatively very little 
rye flour is used, and this mostly mixed in a mixture with wheat flour. 

For larger sized bread sour dough is used almost exclusively, but 
yeast fermentation is also resorted to sometimes. The latter is now 
generally used for smaller sized bread. Hop fermentation is also partly 
used. The working of the sour dough is similar to that prevalent in 
Southern Germany. 

The following kinds of bread are predominant in Switzerland: 
House bread, English bread, Graham bread, Aleuronat bread, Rye bread. 
Maize bread, and, of course, finer table bread, made according to French, 
German and Vienna methods. 

The Swiss house bread, or home made bread, differs from most other 
breads in being made from a very light and soft dough, into which has 
been kneaded as much air as possible. When thoroughly kneaded, the 



538 THE baker's book. 

dough is broken, then only lightly put together and thrown on a molding 
tabic which must be well covered with flour to prevent the dough from 
sticking to it. The dough is so soft as to spread in all directions. After 
being cut up and weighed, the loaves are molded only very loose, and 
considerable flour will stick to it. Before the loaves go into the oven, 
the baker improves their shape to some extend with a few quick deft 
touches of his hands, but no effort is made to give the loaves a nice bloom 
or gloss. All the flour is alk)wed to stick to the crust. Flour being used 
very liberally on the bench and for molding the loaves, the bread will 
not get much bloom or glossy crust when baked, and no effort is made to 
brush off the flour. 

A few of the principal specialties of the Swiss bakeries, especially 
those of the city of Basle, are illustrated on colored plate 17, and we 
herewith give their names : 

1. Bierschildlcin (beer sign). 

2. Wasscrbrotchen (water roll). 
3 and 4. Tafclbrot (table bread). 

5. English bread, 

6. ZziHeback. 

7. Easier Leckerli (honey cake). 

8. House bread. 

"In Switzerland bread seems to play a more prominent part as 
food than in any other country except France," reported Consul-General 
Jo. T. Du Bois at St. Gall, some time ago. **It furnishes 70 per cent, of the 
nourishment of the 3.000.000 inhabitants in the Swiss Republic, and that 
the nourishment is wholesome and adequate is proven by the sturdy 
growth for which most of the Swiss are noted. It is doubted, owing to 
the careful enforcement of the anti-adulteration law of Switzerland and 
the prompt and vigorous protest of the people themselves when an in- 
fraction of it is discovered, whether there is any country in Europe that 
has, as a rule, purer and more wholesome bread than this Republic. But 
rigorous enforcement of laws and prompt resentment of the bread eaters 
have not, thus far, prevented adulteration taking place. Being the chief 
article of food, it has the widest market, and consequently offers the best 
opportunity for debasement. To increase the weight of bread is becoming 
quite an art on the continent of Europe. Some bakers soak the dough 
heavily with water and by quickly baking succeed in holding much of its 
"weight. Others mix potato meal with the flour. This system does not 
necessarily make unwholesome bread, although it lessens its nourishing 
power." 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 539 

Note of Author: Soaking the dough with water must strike the baker 
as a unique expression, and no matter how much water is added to flour in 
dough-making, it cannot be called adulteration. The better and stronger the 
flour, the more water it will absorb. 



Baking: in Russia. 



TRANSLATED FROM REPORTS OF MR. J. BARTELS, MOSCOW. 

In European Russia, including the Baltic provinces, the former King- 
dom of Poland, Finland, Siberia and the Caucasus, there are about 140,- 
000 bakeries, of which there are in the capital, Moscow, about 390, in St. 
Petersburg about 340. 

Very few large bakeries exist and the small bakeries predominate 
everywhere. Several factories wherein a great number of workingmen are 
employed, have established their own bakeries, which bake only for these 
workmen; of course, there are also large bakeries which bake for the 
army and navy ; in Moscow, St. Petersburg, and also in Odessa there arc 
a few large private bakeries which do an extensive business, but few are 
provided with modern machinery. 

ORGANIZATION. 

The master bakers are united in trade societies, and elect among 
themselves a presiding officer, the elder of the baking trade. Outside the 
bakers, the confectioners and conditors have also their own trade societies. 

FLOUR AND FERMENTATION. 

For black bread, coarse rve flour is used; for r\'e bread and fine 
bread, bolted r>e flour. Wheat flour, from mixed spring and winter 
wheat, is also used for the better kind of bread, in the ratio of about 20 
to 80 per cent. Sometimes barley flour is employed, but rye flour is with- 
out question the flour that is most largely used for bread baking in 
Russia. 

A letter from a St. Petersburg baker, published in the Munich 
Bacckcrci, contains some details about Russian flour and the flour trade 
in general, which are very interesting, and of which we here reprint a few : 

"Our best flours, which come from the Volga districts, are as gritty 
as fine sifted sand, similar to the Manana grits {^g^ grits) well known in 
Germany. They are milled from the best hard wheat, and the best grade 
comes from the so-called Pererod wheat. But we have also soft milled 



540 THE baker's book, 

flours, from so-called winter wheat, wliich are of an excellent quality. 
Of these the best grades come from Rostow, on the Don. Flours of lesser 
quality, which contain less gluten, are the so-called Little-Russian flours 
from the provinces Kiew, Cherson. Mohilew and the Polish provinces; 
anyway, all those flours that come from the Southwest of Russia. Here 
they are simply called southern flours, more often 'Jewish flours," because 
the mills in these districts are principally owned by Jews. This flour is 
milled soft, some grades are half soft. Bakers do not like this flour very 
well because it contains so little gluten, but it is of good appearance and 
very white. These flours are principally used for Fastenkringel as well 
as for the so-called Sitny, a bread which is baked in large loaves and sold 
by the pound. These flours are largely exported ; as most of these prov- 
inces are situated near the Black Sea, much of this flour goes to foreign 
countries, and France is an especially good customer for them. If our 
\^olga and winter flours, which are usually from I to 1J/2 rubels higher in 
price, could be exported as easily and be quoted at lower rates, they 
could, according to my opinion, soon surpass the Hungarian flours in 
the public favor. Of course for us it is better as it is. The Jewish flours 
are, in so far, of great benefit to us, as they regulate the price here, being 
so much cheaper, and the market at St. Petersburg is usually flooded with 
Jewish flours as soon as the Volga flours, simply called Kruptschatka 
(coarse milled), are here, or the Rostovv winter flours rise in price either 
through short crops, speculation or not enough supply. The flour trade 
in St. Petersburg is exclusively in the hands of the Russians and Jews. 
Every large mill has a depot, and an entire street, the Kalaschnikow Pros- 
pekt, is occupied only by flour dealers; every miller has his wholesale 
house and store in this street, only the Jews have no stores, they have 
depots instead, and usually sell on commission only and have the millers 
ship their flours direct from the railroad to the customers. Among the 
largest houses are some with German names also, descendants of colo- 
nists, and Schmidt Bros., Reinecke, Borel, and others, enjoy an excellent 
reputation. 

**The first grade has a blue label, 'blue i'; the second grade a red 
one. Then comes the third grade 'blue 2,' and the fourth grade, *rcd 
2* ; the other labels are 'black i to 3.' The Jewish flours are numbered by 
ciphers, 0000 as the first, 000 as the second, 00 as the third, o as tiie 
fourth, I to 5, etc. Winter flours are also marked by numerals, o, I, a, 3, 
4. 5. Fine bakers only use the best grades. I, myself, use, for instance, 
Schmidt blue i, Galunow blue i, Baschkirow blue i, Winter flour Nos. 
I and 2. We buy the flour usually in carload lots from the individual 




■ ^s^ ^ 




THE BAKERS BOOK. 54I 

millers at carload prices, and then everybody takes as much as he needs, 
from every firm and grade i fader — 12 sacks each. 

"Of this we use according to our needs. I put the above five grades, 
a sacks of each, in the flour box, and sift as much as I want to use, and 
have large wooden shovels for this operation. 

"Whoever has room enough mixes yet more grades together; baking 
is easier in this way, as one flour grade improves the other, and the 
bread will be more uniform. 

"The most commonly consumed bread is the black bread, made from 
coarse rye flour, then comes rye bread, matle from bolted rye flour, and 
while bread of all kinds and shapes. The ratio is about 75 per cent, black 
bread to 25 per cent, white bread. 

"For black bread and rye bread sour dough is used, also for Barankis, 




but this sour dout;h is niadi- imni wheat flour; for all kinds oi while 
bread, comprcssfcj yvast is usol." 

About fcrmcntalion, ibc above named letter has the followiiif; to say: 
"Our flour is subjected to slow treatment, and tor the reason that it 
is very coarse milled and needs a long lime to dissolve. We take for one 
sack of flour about three-quarter pound of yeast (finest grade). The 
sponge stands from i'/j to 2 hours, then the di>iit;h is made for half 
an hour or longer, and then the dough is left standinj; again for I'j 
to 2 hours. Of diis mass the different dcuijbs are again sul)ilivided. 
First comes the French dough, after this I'j to 2 pounds of suyar is 
taken (if Jewish Hour is u>ed. we need decidedly more sugar, as this 
flour does not color very wtllt. ijj to 2 pounds of butter, 5 to 8 eggs to 
each 100 pounds of dough. Further, the rose dougli: 3 pounds sugar, 2 
pounds butter. 15 eggs, and a little more for each too pounds of dungh. 



542 THE baker's book. 

Thirdly, the sugar dough : lo pounds sugar, 7 to 10 pounds butter, 60 to 
80 eggs per 100 pounds of dough. Fourth, the Zwieback dough: 4 
pounds butter, 4 pounds sugar. Of these four general doughs there are, 
according to the extent of the business, further specialties cut out ; in my 
own business about 10 to 12 different kinds. There are fine bakeries 
where they have from 20 to 25 different kinds of small doughs. The 
working over lasts about one hour, after that the dough stands for ij^ 
to 2 hours (we speak now of the French dough), according to the needs 
of the flour, and then only after about 7 hours have passed after preparing 
the dough the bread is made. Outside of this common dough there is 
made exclusively from winter flour a dough of the consistency of thick 
soup for the so-called "Kalatschi,*' which are eaten principally during 
fasting days. The French dough and the Zwieback dough are worked 
dry without an addition of flour ; to the rose dough, flour is added." 

In colored plate 18 the principal specialties of the Russian bakeries 
are illustrated as follows: 

1-5. Kringel — Baranki. 
7. Pretzel — Krendel. 

8-9. Milk rolls — Molotschuy chleb. 

10. Kalatsch — Kalatsch. 

11. Wyborg Kringel — Wyborski Krendel. 

12. Horseshoe with caraway and salt — Podkoska. 
13-14. Church bread — Prosfora. 

15-16. Milk rolls — Molotschny chleb. 

17. French white bread — Franzaski bjeli chleb. 

18. Saltsticks or rolls — Solonaj bulotschka. 

19. Ssajka — Ssajka. 

20. French bread — Franzaski chleb. 

21. Rose bread — Rosintschik. 
22-24. Milk rolls — Molotschny chleb. 

25-27-29. Zwieback — Ssuchary. 

26. Rye bread — Picklewany chleb. 
Especially noticeable is the Russian black bread for excellent quality, 
of which illustrations are given on Fig. 176. The bread is made in the 
following manner: 

In a very large tub, which has a capacity of 7J4 hundredweight of solid 
dough, a sour dough is made with one hundredweight coarse rye flour, 
which is left standing for eight hours. To this are added 250 pounds flour 
and about 100 liters warm water, then a full sour is made by two workmen, 
who stir the dough with long sticks. This full sour is again left standing 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 543 

for 2y2 hours and covered, then 3 pounds salt and 200 pounds flour are 
added, after which four workmen finish kneading the dough with long 
sticks. This is done in such a way that the four workmen stand near 
the edge of the tub, lay the sticks crosswise over each other, and then 
run around the tub, holding the sticks in their hands. In this way a 
kind of stirring work is created in the tub. This work lasts for about 
half an hour, after which the finished dough is left to rest for about an 
hour. After the dough has rested, it is put on the table and the foreman 
divides it in bowls, each one containing twenty pounds of dough. The 
workmen have to knead these separate pieces thoroughly, put them to- 
gether again and put each separate piece back again into the bowl. As 
soon as the whole dough is moulded up in loaves and proved, the work at 
the ovep begins, which. i? done. by the foreman. The loaves are thrown 
from the bowls on the peel, washed with a thin paste and then put into 
the oven ; these ovens are generally so large that seven rows of seven 
pieces each can be baked at once. Each row is separated by a board and 
the bread pushed closely together. After being baked for three hours, 
the bread is taken from the oven, again washed with a thin paste, where- 
from it gets its glossy appearance. After the bread has cooled off for 8 
to 10 hours, it can be cut with a damp knife. It is sold by the pound, 
and the Pud (=40 pounds) costs from 70 to 80 Kopeks (i Kopek 
=y2 cent). 

A better grade of this bread is also made a kind of Pumpernickel 
bread by mixing i]^ hundredweight flour with 8 kilos malt, then adding 100 
liters boiling water, and then covering the whole well and letting it get 
cool. To this is added a full sour from 100 pounds flour, which is well 
mixed with the first **sour," and left standing for three hours. At last 
the dough is kneaded with the addition of another 100 pounds of coarse 
flour, 100 pounds bolted flour, and 3 pounds of salt. This dough is 
left standing for two hours and then baked in the same way as the pre- 
ceding one. Caraway seeds are strewn over these breads, of which the 
pud (=40 pounds) costs from i rubel to i rubel 10 kopek. 

Birak is a popular Russian pastry, or rather a patty. It is made 
richer or poorer to meet the requirements of all classes. The poorer 
classes make a plain dough, similar to our piedough, and for filling they 
use cabbage, or berries, apples or potcheese. The better classes prefer a 
richer dough for their **Birak,'* and to each four pounds of dough about 
I to 2 pounds of butter, J^ to ^ pound of sugar and 3 to 4 eggs are 
added. This dough is mixed and rolled somewhat like puffpaste. Finally 
a sheet is rolled out, placed on a baking tin, the center spread about I 



544 THE baker's book. 

inch thick with whatever filling is wanted, and the ends of the dough 
pulled over the top and pinched together. After being washed with tgg 
or milk, the "Birak" is placed in the oven and baked. 

A favorite national dish are the Kalatsch, which are baked to sell 
for 3, 5, ID, 15, 20 kopeks, and even up to i rubel, and are eaten hot with 
Russian caviars. When moving to new places, they are used as a kind of 
gift, it being a Russian custom for friends to present the moving party 
with salt and bread as a wish that in their new lodgings they may always 
be plentifully provided with something to eat. 



Baking in the Balkan States. 

TRANSLATED FROM A REPORT FURNISHED BY MR. JOS. FRITSCH, SERAJEWO. 

There are between 900 and 1,000 bakeries in Bosnia and the Herze- 
gowina. The largest number is established in the capitals Serajewo and 
Mostar; there are between 30 and 40 bakeries in Mostar (capital of the 
Herzegowina), and between 180 and 200 in Serajewo (capital of Bosnia). 

Not only in Bosnia and the Herzegowina, but throughout all the 
rest of the Balkan States small bakeries predominate. The only exception 
is Rumania, where large bakeries are begun to be oper-^ted through the 
establishment of cooperative bakeries at Bucharest, Galatz, etc. 

ORGANIZATION. 

There are two district classes of bakers in Bosnia and the Herze- 
gowina, to wit: 

a. Domestic (Bosnia) bakers who furnish the bread for natives 
(Bosniaks) ; and 

b. Foreign bakers, who bake for the foreigners that have settled in 
the country. 

Both are subject to regulations by the magistrates as a trade govern- 
ment, and have to observe all the local laws and pay the local taxes. 

The native master bakers (class A) have as a rule no established busi- 
ness name ; the arrangement of their bakeries is especially remarkable on 
account of the opening of the oven being situated right on the street front, 
so that the oven stick or peel, when in use, reaches way out on \he 
sidewalk. 

The foreign bakers (class B) have their established firm names and 
everything else is the same as in Austria. 



THE baker's book. 545 

The native bakers (Bosniaks) elect every year from their midst 
the eldest bakers among them as an executive committee; the foreign 
bakers have no organization at all. Both classes, as said before, are 
subject in every way to the municipal trade ordinances. 

Generally flour from the mills situated in the country is used; the 
better and more pretentious class of bakeries uses flour furnished by the 
Elisabeth Steam Flour Mills Company of Budapest, as also that of 
Bemhard Back's Sons* Steam Mill of Szegedyn. which so far have fur- 
nished the best liked and most useful flour. Wheat, rye and also some 
maize flour are used. 

Class A (Bosnian bakers) furnish the following kinds of bread for 
the native population: Haremski Chleb (Harem bread), Simit (a better 
kind of bread), Pogocar, Samun (the best liked bread in the 
Orient), Tepsias (housebread, baked in tins), Kaplanamala (breakfast 
bread), Pogocar Kiseliak (a favorite bread made with sour dough that 
is manufactured at Kiseliak. well-known in Bosnia for its mineral 
springs), Curek (housebread), Bosman Limicki (housebread for 
laborers). 

Class B (foreign bakers) manufacture for the foreign population 
the following kinds : Housebread in the shape of rolls, made from half- 
wheat flour; round-shaped housebread, made from equal quantities rye 
and wheat flour; Krahan bread, made with sour dough from Kiseliak 
water (the mineral springs of Bosnia). Patent rolls, so-called Vienna 
rolls, usually eaten at the second breakfast, which contain caraway seeds, 
made from equal parts wheat and rye flour. Salt Stengel and Salt Kipfel, 
split rolls (so-called Syrian rolls). Water-butter Kipfel, Mohnstrietzel. 
Priosbread in different shapes. Kaiser rolls. Hospital rolls. Milk Kipfel, 
Lunchroom rolls. 

The foreign element prefers the Kaiser rolls. All bakery produc/s 
made with yeast are generally baked on tins, the native bread is baked 
on the hearth. 

Bosnian bakers make ferment r>'e bread with sour dough, while for 
wheat bread they use partly dough and partly pressed yeast ; the foreign 
bakers use pressed yeast exclusively. 

The specialties of the Bosnian bakers, which are about the same 
as those from Turkish bakeries, are illustrated on colored plate i8. and 
are as follows: 

I. Kaplama — Morning bread (price, 2 cents), made with sour 
dough. 



54^ 1HE baker's book. 

2, Haremski Chlcb — Harem bread, (price, 2 cents), made willi 
yeast. 

J, Elif — Breakfast bread (price, 2 cents), made with sour dough. 
Samun — Favorite Oriental bread (price, 2 cents), made with 
sour dough. 

igocar Kiseliak — Favorite Kiseliak bread (price, 2 cents), 
; with sour dough from Kiseliak. 

Fcdrahaplana — Health bread (price. 2 cents), made with sour 



5- 
made 

6. 
dough. 

7- 
dough. 



Bosman — Bread for laborers (price, lo cents), made with sour 



Cahia — Dinner bread (price, 5 cents), made with yeast. 

Mr. Fritsch, of Serajewo. has furnished us the following additional 
information : 

The Bosnian ( native ) bakers use flour furnished partly by steam mills, 
partly by domestic mills, which latter mill the grain flat with the bran, 




n^ I7T>— Lotdini Shed (J. FriiKh Bikerr, Scrajtwo). 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 547 

and which flour must therefore be sifted before use. Instead of using 
flour for sprinkhng the boards or cloths, the native bakers take the bran. 
On account of this plain milling, the bread retains the moisture longer 
and has an agreeably sweet taste. 

The Bosnian bread is made with 20 to 25 kilograms flour, then 50 
grams yeast and some sour dough are added. The fermentation is kept 
up for two to three hours than a little more than half is filled out, after 
which a very soft dough is mixed, which is brought on the board after 
half an hour. 

Bench work is quite different from the Austrian method. The work- 
man sits (according to Oriental custom, with crossed legs, but without 
smoking) on the table beside the dough, which is still in the trough. 
This workman pinches pieces of dough out of the trough, weighs every 
piece on a scale that is standing nearby so that it has the required weight,, 
and then throws the piece of dough to a second workman (Komsio) 
who sits near the table and who lightly presses the piece and puts it on the 
table to prove. 

After the necessary proving, the bread is put on boards which are 
strewn with bran. Shortly afterwards the bread is brought to the oven 
and only then the dough is being given the desired form. 

The Turkish oven is very primitive, but it is highly arched so that a 
workman, in laying a new hearth, can comfortably sit in the oven. 

The heating of the oven is done from the back, and the smoke has 
to leave through the chimney above the front opening. The bricks for 
the ovens are commonlv made from unburnt material. 

The tools necessarv for an oven in a Bosnian baken' are called in the 
native tongue: Lapata (key), Lachta (shutter). Serk (firecrux), 
Loha (firetong). The fire is not drawn out of such ovens as 
just described, but it lies in a hollow on the right side of the hearth,, 
which is made for this special purpose and into which all remaining 
glowing embers are drawn. Light is made in the oven through the 
burning of lightly inflammable wood. 

After everything is baked, the Bosnian baker cooks for himself or 
others, who are willing to pay for such service, different national dishes 
which are filled in earthen jars, covered with paper, by putting these 
jars into the oven. 

As a further curiosity we might remark that the bread is not carried 
in baskets when offered for sale to the public, but on boards which the 
bread carriers balance on their heads. 



548 THE baker's book. 



The Baking Trade in Turkey. 

The following article is taken from an. article published in Th 
Bakers Helper by Mr. M. H. Jucknavorian : 

In Turkey (es])ecially in the provinces) the bread is prepared mostl 
of barley, corn, rye and other cheap kinds of cereals, owing to the po\ 
ertv of the inhabitants. 

In the City of Constantinople there are 350 to 400 bakeries, c 
which the greater part belongs to Armenians, after whom follow Greel 
and a few (iernian Jews. There are three principal kinds of breat 
which are i)rei)are(l of leaven, as yeast is completely unknown to then 
The first kind prepared for the public is made of wheat flour, and is 
white, light, porous, round loaf with a thin crust; the diameter of th 
loaf is about ten inches, its weight is one kilo (two and one-fifth pounds 
and its ])rice at present is three and one-half cents. The second kin(' 
which is mostly ])repared lor Turks, is made with wheat flour and brar 
It is an elastic sheet of dou^h, without crust, a (juarter of an inch tliic 
by six inches wide and about eighteen inches long ; its weight is one kilo 
price, three cents. 'J'he third kind is prc])ared by wholemeal by govern 
mental bakeries for the army ; its weight is about three-fourths of ; 
kilo; j)rice. one and one-halt cents. There are alM) a few bakeries whicl 
j^repare \'iemia bread for the high life only. This bread is baked ii 
special ovens and in ]):ins. A ])ound loaf cost five cents. Needless ti 
say anything for their preparation for they are well known in America 
The fir^t inventor of this bread in L'onstantinople was Mr. Jacob Ralian 
who. after working a few years in America (unfortunately we are no 
able to mention the city and the factory where he worked and learned lb 
trade), came to Constantino])le to work under the supervision of Di 
Cyrus Hamlin, the American missionary, who had contracted to suppl 
bread to the r»ritish army in Constantinople at the time of the Crimea! 
war, though he was not a baker himself. These four kinds of bread, a 
well as all the other baking productions, are prepared only by humai 
hands, machinerv being unknown in Tiirkev. 

IIAKKKS AND o\'l NS. 

Cenerally a bakery has one oven, two sieves f which are seldom ii 

use) and forty to fifty j)roving boxes one fo(U wide, six inches hig^h ant 

feet l«.'ng. A bakery has aUo a i^ang of workmen, who work witl 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 549 

«ach Other ; that is, when the bakery's master is not satisfied with one of 
them, he is ob1ige<I to send away all of them and take another g&nfi. 
rThe latter consists of one master and his assistant, one baker (the work- 
man that bakes the )>rea(l) and three or four workmen. They work all 
<lay and nifilit the whole week wltliont inlemiption. .\s to salaries, the 
muster is paiil about S12 per month, his assistant and the baker ?io each, 
anci the laborers ?6 to it>^ each. 




Hakery and Id Wiirkmcn 



To fjivc you an idea about the ovens, we would recommend readers 
to look ai some oven photographs »'f the ruins of i'onipeii. tSce \'ol. 1.) 
They are abont eij;ht feet high. The exterior of an oven is S(|uare and 
the baking s]iace is circular. They are built large enough to take in 150 
to 3(X> one-kilo loaves. They have neither dampers nor other mechanical 
instruments. The mouih of an oven is ."^imply a hole, and a piece of silieet 
iron serves as a ikKir. In the construction of an oven a large <|uantity of 
rock sah and pieces of glass are employed. A thick layer is put under the 
sole of the oven and over the crown, so as to reserve the heat. The oven 
solo is made of fire bricks four by nine inches, the crown with soft rubber 
( ?| bricks ten by ten inches. To heat the oven they bum wood on one 
side in the baking space, and the smoke coming out from the moulh. 
passes through the chimney, which is constructed at the front of the 
oven just over the oven's mouth. When the oven is hot the dough is in- 



5SO 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



troduced direct to the oven sole with long peels. While the dough is in the 
oven, now and then some fresh wood is thrown on the ashes kept in the 
oven, and by the light of the burning wood the examination of goods in 
oven is done. After the first batch it is necessary to warm the oven again 
for the next batch, and so on. By this means they prepare 1,000 to 
1,500 loaves per day. When the bread is ready the baker sells it in his 
place at the usual price, or he sends it to his customers' houses, putting 
the loaves into two large square baskets over a horse, and taking half a 
cent extra for transport. 




ricsidfs brcad-bakiii}; in Constantinople there is also local pastry 
trade. There are about .250 bakeries for pastry only. In this trade the 
use of chemicals is completely unknown, and. like bread bakers, leaven is 
the only fermenting agent used by tbem : but some of their productions 
prepared only with primitive materials (sugar, butter, milk, egg and 
fli'ur) arc consiiU-red even by Europeans as first-class goods. 

The first kind is called "Baklava," which is an excellent pastn,-; 
it is very light and palatable: as a preparation it is almost like French 
puff paste, .^ftcr preparing the (lough with the best Hungarian f!oiir, 
tliey open the dough to very thin sheets of six to eight square feet each, 
by a rolling pin. It is necessary to say that this (to prapare the dough 
into very thin sheets') is considered here a very imi)ortant part in the 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



551 



work. The workman who can prepare sheets of dough as thin as pos- 
sible is considered the best master. When the sheets are ready they 
put some butter over each of them, and afterwards they place them in 
baking pans on each other till half an inch in thickness ; then, cutting to 




Piii. iSo.— A Turktih Baker Selling "BeonK." 

diamond-shaped forms, they bake them. As soon as the Baklava is taken 
out of the oven they pour boiled sugar over them, and so they sell it, 
plain or with double cream, at the price of 24 to 36 pence per kilo. 

The second is called "Beoreg," and is prepared hke the Baklava. 
only they put meat, cheese and other things in the dough and sprinkle 
IKJwdored sugar on them after lliey are baked. 

There is another kind also, which is called "Simid." The Simid 
takes the same place in Turkey as the biscuit in Europe. It is in the 
form of a large ring ten inches in diameter and half an inch in thick- 



552 THE baker's BOOK. 

ness. It is simply bread dough with or without sugar, butter and Qgg. 
After the dough is prepared in the said forms, they are boiled like 
cracknels, then rolled in an oily seed called "Susam" (sesame seed) and 
then baked. 

In Turkey there is only one factory of biscuit, which belongs to the 
family of Harootun Jucknavorian, who was in America at 1864 till 1872, 
and who wqrked in Belcher & Larrabee's factory in Albany, K- Y., came 
to Turkey >yith some machines and found one little biscuit factory in a 
very bad condition. Now the factory has a motor of eight horse power 
and has the capacity to produce terl to fifteen hundredweight of biscuits 
in ten hours. About forty kinds of cakes are made, some oif which are 
Cracknels, Jumbles, Wine, Boston. Tourist. Ginger, Soda, Traveler, 
Petit-Beurre, etc. Mr. Jucknavorian, Sr., has retired now, 'leaving the 
work to his three sons, Haig. Mihran and Eflward. 

The baking trade also, like many other trades^ is under the watch of 
the government, which determines the price of the bread, after consulta- 
tion with the representatives of the bakers' union. The government has 
its special officials whose duty is to Tisit the bakeries^ tegularly to watch 
over the weight of the bread and its quality. It is tiecessary to say that 
the governmental watch over the bakeries is only nominal, for in reality 
it is the union of the bakers which direct fhe work at their own will and 
to their own profit. This they can do by paying to the officials, who are 
always ready to shut their eyes to every wrong when they are well paid. 
In speaking about the union of bakers we must say that this union of 
bakers is not like those which are formed in America or in Europe. All 
the members of this union, without any exception, are uneducated, and 
their union is not formed for the progress of the trade, but'bnly to gain 
as much more money as they can. This union is ver}' strojjig. so every 
baker is obliged tg join if he does not want to ruin himself in a short time. 



THE baker's book. 553 



Baking in tlie Tropics. 



CUBAN BAKING AND BAKERIES. 

No flour IS baked in Havana except in the bakeries, and the city is 
well supplied with excellent bread, the pro<iuct of 125 bakeries. It is esti- 
mated that the daily consumption of flour in Havana is 1,000 203-pound 
sacks. The long loaves made by the leading bakers in Havana are of ex- 
cellent quality and wholesome. The loaves are some two feet in length, 
of the same size throughout and about as thick as a jelly roll. In fact, 
the bread as served on the table reminds one, in shape, of a jelly roll. The 
price of bread is ten cents (silver) a loaf. The bread is baked in half 
molds, and a long, narrow banana leaf is inserted in the dough before 
baking. When taken from the ovens the loaves show a crease where the 
leaf was placed. The leaf is easily removed, but small particles cling to 
the bread. The object of this is to allow the heat to bake the inside with- 
out burning the crust. 

A bakery of the larger kind is expensively gotten up. There are 
large brick ovens and funiaces. all substantially built. The bakers are 
very particular about baking bread, and really are quite artful in their 
profession. Fermentation is natural and yeast is never used. American 
yeast manufacturers, who thought that, if gone about properly, the bakers 
would use compressed yeast in their bread-making had a hard time to 
convince the Cuban bakers. A representative, accompanied by American 
bakers, visited the Havana bakeries, explained the use of yeast, and 
showed the Spaniards that it was not necessary to allow bread to stand 
any considerable length of time before baking. All the materials of the 
Spanish baker were used and the result was a satisfactory showing. The 
use of yeast was elucidated to the fullest extent, but when it came to sell- 
ing the yeast to the baker the reply was, "Poison." From bakery to bakery 
the same results were attained, but failure resulted so far as business was 
concerned. Efforts had been made at various times to introduce the use 
of veast.* 



The warm, humid climate of Cuba gives natural fermentation. The 
baker mixes his flour and makes his dough at nightfall. The first baking 

•vVithin the last two years, the use of compressed yeast has become very popular. 



554 THE BAKERS BOOK. 

is at four o'clock a. m. This bread is delivered in time for the early morn- 
ing light meal. The dough is then set in the morning and the baking done 
in time for delivery in the middle of the afternoon. In the absence of yeast 
and baking powder the climate must be aided in a proper selection of flour 
by the baker. The flour has to be mixed to give the rising-power to the 
dough and the color to the bread. 

Bread is divided into two general classes — lard-bread and water- 
bread. The lard-bread is the soft wheat flour bread. Water-bread is the 
mixed or spring wheat flour bread, requiring no lard. It is advantageous 
to mix the flours and make a blend so that they can use water-bread and 
save thereby the cost of the lard. Nearly all the bread now in use is of 
the economical kind requiring no lard. Some bakers continue to use a 
very small amount of lard in all kinds of bread. A strong extra fancy, 
a spring wheat flour or a low-grade is always kept by the bakers for the 
blend. The bakers are constantly experimenting, but usually stick pretty 
closely to a few flours. They have a reputation for willingness to be 
shown, but an unwillingness to change. 

There are many large bakeries in Havana, some of which consume as 
much as thirty barrels of flour per day. These bakeries are not modem 
in any respect and have none of the machinery with which an up-to-date 
American bakery is equipped. The bread is hand-made, and the method 
of handling the flour and dough, the working of the ovens, all requires a 
great deal of labor ; but the results will compare favorably with the product 
of any foreign bakeries. There is an adaptability about the method suit- 
able to Havana — the arrangement of the building and the ovens about in- 
terior courts, the dark cooler corners for flour and bread storage, which 
will permit of only a limited amount of modernizing. 

The largest bakery in Havana is that of Colom & Co., which was 
visited by the writer as the guest of the baker. At the importing house of 
Colom we learned something of the methods at the bakery, and it was well 
that he did, for neither the amiable head baker nor any of his men could 
speak English. By observation and gesticulating he was enabled to get 
a pretty fair idea of what a Havana bakery is like. The bakery is a large 
low building of substantial construction. You enter a very clean and 
spacious retail department from the street, and continuing through, enter 
a long court. The bakery is arranged around this court. The ovens, fur- 
naces, kneading- rooms and flour store-rooms are all suitably located to 
avoid imnecessary work. Near the ovens are tall racks of long bakine- 
pans. These are handled by long iron peels. The kneading-room usuallv 
presents a busy scene. 



THE baker's book. 555 

The employees are Spaniards or several of the many t>'pes of Cubans. 
They knead the bread well and keep half a dozen or more small boys con- 
stantly on the run as carriers of flour or pans. The bakery is quite dark, 
and, as far as possible, the employees suspended work to enable the secur- 
ing of photographs. It is surprising to see the load of bread the boys em- 
ployed as bread-carriers can "tote** about on their head. With all the em- 
ployees, there is a lack of clothing. Some of the lads wear only a small 
cloth around their waists, which hangs to the knees. The cotton flour 
sack is used as a principal part of the baker's dress. Holes for the head 
and arms are cut in the sacks and they hang with a Philippine effect. 

The bakeries of the larger class all make small cakes and use lard 
and sugar. These cakes are well liked by the Cubans, but do not sell in 
quantity. They are molded into several plain shapes. 

There are quite a number of the larger bakeries in Havana that arc 
worth visiting. One of the newly-established concerns is called the "Uncle 
Sam" bakery. It is one of the largest in the city. — Northwestern Miller. 



BAKING IN NEW ZEALAND. 

We are a small people, scattered over a straggling country, with four 
centers of population, each of from 25,000 to 50.000, writes a correspon- 
dent to the Bakers' Helper. Other towns are small in comparison and the 
bulk of our population is rural. We all eat bakers* bread and we all suck 
"lollies." 

We grow good wheat: Pearl, \'elvet. Red Clay and Tuscan. We 
have good rains in the spring and early summer and dry harvest time, so 
that both crops and condition are a certainty. We have fine roller mills. 
Our flour is uniformly sound, but never rises to a very high grade. At 
the time I write best brands are worth from $2.55 to $2.70 per hundred 
pounds at the principal ports. Bread is sold as low as eleven cents, gener- 
ally twelve cents, the four-pound loaf. It rises to fourteen and sixteen 
cents in districts where little competition exists. 

Bread baking is almost entirely in the hands of Scotchmen, and Scotch 
methods of a few years back, prevail. Our circumstances are not favor- 
able to the development of great businesses, well organized and well 
equipped. Science and style are not much in evidence, and for years back 
we have seen nothing like novelty, push or advertisement in this line. 
There is very little bread doughing machinery in the colony. Twelve or 
fifteen Bailey-Baker continuous baking ovens and one or two steam ovens 



556 THE baker's book. 

are in use ; the bulk of the work is done in the old style. This is in 
contrast to the enterprise one sees recorded in your pages. 

The French loaf comes to us with the dust of the oven and the cart 
in its creases, and with the curse of Adam visibly imprinted on it ; accounts 
are differently kept ; we pay for it when it suits us. 

DAHPER— AN AUSTRALIAN BREAD. 

**Damper" is purely an Australian product. It was never heard of 
anywhere else, and it will probably hold its own irt that land, for years yet 
to come, and more than once I have thought, Wessed be the man who in- 
vented it, writes Mr. H. \'irstow, to a baiker's journal. I say man. 
because no woman wo'Ald have thought of it,' since it is not refined enough 
in its makeup to emanate from the feminine brain. This is the way it is 
made, in its mo§^ primitive form: Selecting for a molding board a sheet 
of bark, perhaj)^ eighteen inches wide (Australian trees are in many cases 
noted for the immense slabs of bark you can peel from them) and three 
feet long, the self-taught cook takes from his "swag" made up of his pos- 
sum rug or blanket, and his little stock of provisions, the precious little 
flour sack, purchased perhaps at a station twenty miles behind. On to his 
molding board he empties a sufficient quantity of it, adding to his taste salt 
for which he has paid perhaps twelve cents a pound. 

He thinks himself especially fortunate, if he happens to have enough 
saleratus "to make it light." Then kneeling amid the emphatic silence of 
nature, disturbed if at night only by the hideous howl of the dingo, or by 
day, the screech of the parrot or cockatoo, or the measured hopping of the 
kangaroo, he mixes these ingredients. How careful he is. that he lose not 
a grain of the precious flour. After he has worked the mass to the con- 
sistency of (lough ready for the oven, he fashions the loaf, say two inches 
thick, and of the shape of a large waffle. 

Then he turns to the glowing coals of the fire made from the fragrant 
mvall or eucalyptus, and carefully rakes out any of the wood which mav 
still be smoking. Here he makes the "damper bed,*' and places the damper 
therein ; carefully covering it with coals, meanwhile using the utmost care 
that none of the ashes touch it. 

The batch is in the oven, and there it stays until it is done. Experi- 
ence has taught him, that it will take about ten minutes for every pound 
of the loaf, then he rakes off the coals, and looks with pride on this pale 
brown circular result. He must be in a hurry if he eats it before it is thor- 
oughly cold, but when he gets ready to do so, his knife severs the inch 
and a half slices, Ix'tween two of which he spreads — butter? Oh no, that 



THE baker's book. 557 

is too much of a luxury, and besides he couldn't carry it, but a slice of 
corn beef or fresh mutton, which he has bought for perhaps three cents a 
I)ound at the last station. 



THE BAKING TRADE IN 50UTH AFRICA. 

Bread baking is an established industry in the Cape Colony and the 
quality of the article is said to be good. The industry is well advanced also 
in the Colony of Natal, but in the other South African countries the meth- 
ods of bread baking are very old-fashioned. and afford ample room for 
improvement. 

From wliat the Philadelphia Commercial Museum learns from its cor- 
respondents there appears to be an opening there for modem bread mak- 
ing appliances, especially in the Transvaal and the interior States. And 
as regards machinery for confectioner's, cake maker's, and candy maker's 
uses the field is there for any manufacturer energetic enough to introduce 
his goods, for the reason that the bulk of the confectionery, etc., is import- 
ed. The country is an improving one. and modem devices for improving 
the quality of an article and cheapening its labor cost will come more and 
more into demand. 

There are nineteen bakeries in Cape Town ; twelve in Port Elizabeth 
and nine in East London, the principal towns in Cape Colony. All of these 
establishments are more or less modern, but this does not argue that their 
proprietors are unwilling to adopt improved methods, l^'or a peculiarity of 
South African bread trade is that while there is no competition in price 
there is keen rivalry as to quality and in a country where **baker's bread" 
only is used the character of the machinery and the methods employed 
counts for a good deal. Wherever people have settled there has been 
established a bakery. The people do not make bread in their homes. 

Loaf bread, rolls, scones, muffins, etc., are all made by the bakers. 
The loaf weighs from one to five pounds and sells for about six cents per 
pound. A good bread baker receives from $i6 to $20 per week, but many 
are paid much less. Malays are largely employed and at much lower fig- 
ures. But little loaf cake is produced by the bakers, the bulk coming from 
England. Many varieties of small cakes, fancy shapes, are made, but no 
crackers, biscuits, fancy wafers, etc., are made, all coming from England, 
which suggests that there is an .American market here for these goods. 

The flour used is nearly wholly American; of 50,261.081 pounds im- 
ported into South Africa in 1897, 4^*^53*547 coming from the United 



558 THE baker's book. 

States. This was consumed by the white population, the aborigines using 
mainly.com, commeal and samp. 

In Johannesburg, the chief city of the South African Republic, or 
Transvaal, as it is known, bread is still being made by the old hand method, 
not more than one or two bakers using machinery. Nearly the whole of 
the confectionery and candy is imported, principally through Natal ports. 
The importations of confectionery, candy, etc., during 1897 amounted to 
380,000 pounds valued at $52,500. Very little of it was American. 

There is a market in South Africa for the goods themselves as well as 
for the machinery for making confections, cakes, candy, etc, 

THE BREAD OF THE BOERS. 

There is one peculiarity about the Boer bread which would, for a 
time at least, recommend it to many in England. This is, that it goes a 
long way. The Boer does not believe in being prodigal either Avith his 
labor or his cash, and the womenkind, in this respect, hold the same opin- 
ions as the men. The more substantial the bread is made the farther it 
will go, and so the mealie meal is lightened as little as possible, and the 
bread in consequence is more than solid. Every Boer family bake their 
own bread, this being, of course, necessar\' in a population so widely 
scattered, and every farm has its oven, made of baked earth, which stands 
out in the back yard in convenient proximity to the kitchen door. The 
vrow generally makes sufficient bread at one baking to last for about ten 
days, because wood is scarce in the Transvaal, and the oven takes a large 
fire. The way the Boer woman makes her bread is very simple. She 
takes a sufficient quantity of mealie meal, adds a little salt, and a little 
Kaffir beer (a drink made of maize, and which is largely used all over 
South Africa in bread making). These are her ingredients. The bread 
is made in huge loaves, which, without any exaggeration, may be de- 
scribed as the size of cart wheels. The baking usually occupies a day, and 
during this period it is advisable to give the vrow as wide a berth as 
possible, for her temper at this time is usually none of the best. The 
poorer class of Boers bake their bread in three-legged pots. They make 
a fire under the pot, and then heap ashes on the top of it. The bread 
baked in this way is generally over-done. When a Boer family is 
"trekking,'* and it is necessary to replenish the supply of bread, a halt 
is made for a day. The men of the party will obtain a good supply of 
firewood, and will select a large ant-bear hill. A large opening will be 
scooped out in this hill, and a fire will be made inside it. This fire will be 
kept up until the inside is sufficiently warm, when the bread will be 



THE baker's book. 559 

placed in, and the opening blocked up with side of earth. An adept at 
this kind of baking will turn out really good bread from a "veldt overi/' 
The one article every Boer woman is clever at making is the rusk. These 
rusks are of the same consistency as a bone, and are intended to be dipped 
into the coffee, and eaten in this way they are really excellent. Besides 
the rusks, a kind of cake is made which is called a *iekker." This cake is 
made from mealie meal, sugar and eggs, and is much appreciated by the 
people, though visitors to the country who have been induced te take it 
do not share this opinion. The great difficulty which confronts the 
Englishman who settles down in the Transvaal is how to keep himself 
supplied with bread. Every Hottentot woman knows how to make breaxi, 
at least, she fondly imagines so ; but their ways are not our ways, and any 
one who ever saw a "Tottie" making bread will assuredly eschew their 
help for the future. The Boer women will bake for newcomers for a 
consideration, but he will as a rule find that eight pounds of flour only 
make about three pounds of bread under their skilful handling, and by 
the time he has solved this apparently abstruse problem he will have be- 
come indignant and will take the matter into his own hands and bake 
for himself. Some of the bread, cookies, damper, call it what you will, 
turned out by a solitary Englishman, baffles description. Some of the 
trading stores sell bread, when they have it. Unfortunately it is very 
seldom that they do have it, and as the bread is generally baked by 
natives, people fight shy of it. In some of the smaller Kaffir wars it has 
been the custom to supply evcr>' man with a pound of flour and a certain 
quantity of baking powder every day, and he had to bake his bread for 
himself. This, of course, refers to the Colonial irregular troops. The 
average Colonial can turn his hand to most things, but when it comes to 
making his own bread in his pannikin, for no other convenience was at 
hand, he bore it for a time, but eventually struck, and biscuits — uni- 
versally called dog biscuits — were substituted. — Baker/ Tifnes, London. 

A ZANZIBAR BAKERY. 

Zanzibar streets are full of the strangest sights and scenes. A month 
could be spent there without ennui. The bazaars alone never cease to be 
interesting. The women clustering round the pumps filling five-gallon 
paraffin tins with beautiful water is a scene I could watch for hours. They 
are so clean, so eager and merry ! The baker of flat cakes is worth going 
miles to see. In his shop, which has a frontage of six feet, is an earthen 
oven, shaped exactly like the washing copper of the English kitchen. At 
the bottom of the oven is a lot of burning wood. The smoke is carried 



5^^ THE BAKERS BOOK. 

away by a flue lower down. RouikI the top, and inside, is a smooth con- 
cave surface. The baker takes the douj:^h. manipulates it deftly until it is 
a perfectly round disc, about eij^ht inches across and one-sixteenth part 
of an inch thick. Then he throws it upon the smooth concave surface and 
starts another biscuit. Directly the douj2:h strikes the wall of the oven it 
blisters and bubbles, and in a minute it is done. The baker has to be very 
quick to keep the oven goini::. hut he is quick, and his monotonous song; 
as he works, haunts me still. His shop, his oven, and himself are all on 
the street, and if. in bending, any part of his person trespasses into the 
street, the arms and shoulders of the hustling throng instantly remind 
him that space is space in Zanzibar. 

BREAD riAKINQ BY ZUNI INDIANS. 

The Pueblo Indians of Ww Mexico and Arizona have a history 
which dates back for many centuries bitdre Columbus discovered America 
or ConMiadi) made his famous tri]) from Mexico to the cities of Cibola. 
There remain only a few pueblos, among the more prominent being that 
occupied by the Zunie. A model in the National Museum at Washington, 
D. C. rei)resents a Zuni family engaged in making paper bread. The 
process of bread making is (Kscribed by the Scientific American as follows: 

"Corn is to-day, as it has always brrn, the distinctive Indian grain, 
and they have many ways of ])reparing ii for fo(Hl, but the bulk of the 
cnij) is <lrie(l and. as »»ccasioii deinand.-. is made nj) into bread. In one 
roc>m in eacli house there is a bin-liUe tmuj^li alnng one side, placed directly 
on the tloor and framed in with l(»w slab^ of st^ne set on e<lge. This bin 
is (hvided by transverse pieces of si«.»ne into three or four compartments, 
and in each of these there is mnmrted on a slight incline a tlat piece of 
rough stone, u>ually black lava which is abundant in that country. This 
is the meta of the Aztec, the milata of the Mnkis, and in connection with 
a small piece of llat stone, which is rubbed back and forth over the lava 
slab, is the grinding mill of these pe«'])le. 

"The corn, having been previou>ly soaked in water t(.> loosen the hard 
cuter skin, is thrown into the tirst compartment, where it is rubbed be- 
tween the stones into a coarse meal. Tins i> passed over into the next 
com[)artment. where it is ground tiner, anrl then into the next, where .it 
emerges in a tine meal, as tine as our wheaivn ll<.»ur. Castaneda, in his 
account of Cibr»la. says that a special pumu is set apart for the grinding 
'*f the corn, and that thi*^ room contain^ a furnace and three stones made 
'St in masirtiry. Three women sit di)wn before these stones; the first 






THE BAKERS BOOK. 




5^ THE baker's book. 

crushes the grain, the second brays it, and the third reduces it entirely to 
powder. The accuracy of this description is apparent. 

"The fine powder which comes from the third grinding is mixed with 
water to a thin batter, which another woman spreads with her hands on 
a heated stone, and immediately after peels off a thin layer about the thick- 
ness of heavy manila paper. A number of sheets of this peculiar bread 
are shown piled up in the center of the picture in front of the mealing bin. 
Ordinarily it is of a dark-blue color, as it is made from blue com, but for 
ceremonial feasting it is made of pink, or yellow, or white, or variegated 
com, and in each case partakes of the color of the grain. When fresh 
this bread is quite palatable, but when a day old it becomes very brittle, 
and, as it is usually made without salt, it tastes much like sawdust. 

**The flat stones on which the paper bread is baked, one of which is 
shown on the extreme right of the picture, are considered very valuable, 
and often descended from mother to daughter through many generations. 
Their manufacture is a secret process, carried on only by certain old 
women of the tribe at a distance from the villages and accompanied by 
numerous rites and ceremonies. A certain kind of stone must be selected 
in the first place, and it must be of even grain and free from cracks or 
flaws. Then, after being rubbed smooth, it is treated with pitch and per- 
haps other ingredients, with frequent exposures to fire and smoke, and at 
intervals certain incantations and formulas must be repeated. At one 
stage in the preparation the strictest silence must be observed, as, it is 
said, a single word spoken then will crack the tablet. If all goes well, the 
final product is a stone of jet-black color, instead of the light-yellowish 
gray of the original sand-stone slab, with a hi.c:hly polished surface, from 
which the flakes of paper bread peel off readily. If, however, there was 
any flaw in the stone, or, if some of the formulas or incantations were 
omitted, or wrongly pronounced, or spoken in the wrong order, the stone 
will crack when exposed to the fire and will be worthless. It will be 
noticed that the stone is moimted some six inches above the floor on low 
pillars, built up of bits of stone and adobe mud. Commonly it rests on 
two slabs of stone on edge, forming a box-like flue or stove, in which a hot 
fire is maintained by constantly feeding in small sticks.** 

A MODERN BAKERY IN BERHUDA. 

We have just received particulars of a large new bakery at Bermuda 
erected for E. J. Thompson, writes an English journal, who has been 
making exhaustive inquiries for many months in this country with 
the view of having an up-to-date model bakery. He ultimately 
placed his order with Messrs. Melvin & Sons, Glasgow, who, in 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



563 



addition to supplying the ovens and machinery, prepared plana and speci- 
fications for the new bakery buildings, which had to be erected in an 
incredibly short time owing to the fact that large numbers of Boer 
prisoners are being landed from time to time. .As Mr. Thompson had 
secured the Government contract to supply the necessary bread, his old 
bakehouse was totally inadequate to cope with the requirements. It had 




p 




flUD 


1 


1 ^ i U-J 1 


1 1 »» 


\m^m 


1 


"Haiisj .S. 






J 



Fi(. iBi.— BcnEudi t 



been Mr. Thompson's intention to erect a new bakery independent of the 
unexpected Government requirements, as his bread trade had grown to 
con-iiidcrable proportions. We append plans of the new bakery, from 
which it will be seen that it is capable of a large output. The bakehouse 
is 80 feet in length, having a width of 33 feet in front of the ovens, giving 
ample space for machinery, tables, troughs, etc. The ceilings are lofty, 
ami good light is provided. The from walls of ovens are being built 
in white and colored enameled bricks. Five ovens are being built — three 



564 



THE BAKES S BOOK. 



of Melvin's steam drawplate ovens, and a pair ot their decker hot-air 
ovens; also large fuel hotplate. Messrs. Melvin sent out one of their 
experienced oven-builders, who employed local builders to assist, and 
as bricks are not obtainable in Bermuda, the greater proportion of the 
building material had to be shipped from Glasgow. The machinery con- 
sists of a 3-sack Metvin kneader. dough divider, hoisl, power whisk, shaft- 
ing, pulleys, etc. : also i6 horse power oil engine. Mr. Thompson 
spared no expense in the erection and equipment of his new baker>-. so 
that it is in e\'ery respect a model of what the modem bakery should 
be. We have no doubt that his commendable enterprise will prove satis- 
factOT>' and profitable. 




OwTiw in M '^lem 



THE BAK£R S BOOK. 565 



Bread Statistics. 

Reports recently gathered give some interesting data in regard to 
the bread consumers of the world. They show that while a Portuguese 
worries through a year with an average bread supply of 176 pounds — 
about half a pound a day — a Spaniard, just across the border, requires 
413 pounds per annum, and Spain cannot be regarded as a wheat- 
growing country either. In Hungary, where waving fields of grain are 
common in the wheat-growing season, 361 pounds a year on an average 
supply a native, while an Austrian, who also raises more or less wheat, 
gets along with 187 pounds a year. Only 143 pounds of flour are required 
hy a German in a year, 165 by a Dane, while the Russians, the greatest 
wheat-growers in Europe, eat but 99 pounds per annum per head. A 
native of Belgium consumes 278 pounds, and of America 357 pounds, 
while the Switzer eats 418 pounds per annum, an Italian 310, a Dutch- 
man 283, an Englishman 352 pounds. The greatest flour eater in the 
world is the Frenchman. He consumes nearly 2 pounds a day, or 705 
pounds in the year. This enormous quantity consumed by a Frenchman, 
when compared with the 56 pounds per annum wl^ch a Scandinavian re- 
quires, revives the old theory that climatic influences have more to do 
with the demands of nature than education. In the extreme northern 
climates, where cold is severe, flour does not seem to be the favorite 
food. There is not much combustion in it, as in oils and animal food. 
The Laplander, who eats no flour at all, is sometimes known to consume 
7 pounds of whale or seal blubber at one meal. A Russian who only eats 
90 pounds in a year of the flour he raises, is popularly sup{>osed to make 
up the deficiency in swallowing tallow candles, and any kind of rich, 
fatty substance, no matter what the flavor. 

It wnll be remembered that Sir \Vm. Crookes, the president of the 
British Association, has prophesied that in 193 1 there will be a cry for 
more bread than the world's farmers produce. Already. Mr. R. S. 
Baker states in the Royal Maj^cine, there are 517,000.000 bread-eaters. 
An increase equal to two Londons is yearly swelling the enormous figures, 
the additions coming partly from births in the more advanced countries, 
and partly from the training of the consumers of rice, rye. and the like 
into a preference for wheat foods. The deductions of years have shown 
that each bread-eater — man, woman, and child — will consume a barrel of 
flour (four and one-half bushels of wheat) every year. The French, the 
English, and the Americans eat more than the average; the Russians and 



566 THE baker's book. 

the Gennans eat less. On the basis of this average, the bread-eating 
world requires more than 2.300,000.000 bushels of wheat every twelve 
months to supply its table with bread. If the wheat fields of the world 
produce as much as this, then there is plenty and prosperity the world 
over; if the production is less, there are suffering and starvation. Few 
people realize how closely the crop is consumed each year. According to 
the statistician of the United States Department of Agriculture, the 
world's total production of wheat in 1897 was 2.226.745,000 bushels — 
not enough by millions of bushels to supply the ux>rld*s food demand 
and furnish seed for the crops of another year. Consequently, countries 
of the earth where the crop was light were visited by want and high 
prices, in India the need even touching the point of famine. During the 
following year. 1898, the crop was enormous, reaching a total production 
reported as 2.879.924,000 bushels, but this is probably an overestimate ; 
and, as a consequence, there was plenty of food in nearly every part of 
the world. 



CONSUMPTION OF WHEAT BREAD INCREASES. 

The consumption of wheat bread has always been a pretty good 
barometer to indicate the condition of the masses of a country. When 
and where it is small, at that time and place the mass of the people will 
be found living in straits; where it is larj^^e, comfort is the rule and ex- 
treme want the exception. The peasants and workers always crave 
white bread, no matter what faddists may say, and they gratify the crav- 
ing when their means are such as to permit it. 

Figures recently published showing the increase in the consumption 
of wheat bread, as compared with rye l)read, make a very definite com- 
mentary on the increase of general comfort among the peoples of Europe, 
says the Am. Miller. In Sweden the consumption of wheat has 
doubled of recent years, while the consumption of rye has increased but 
slightly. In Belgium the laborer eats 117 pounds more bread per year 
than he did thirty-five years ago, and more significant still is the fact, 
while then only 31 per cent, of the bread was wheat bread, rye bread 
has now been almost entirely abandoned in favor of wheat bread. In 
Hungary the latest statistics show an increase in the consumption of 
wheat of 20 per cent., as compared with the five years preceding 1900. 

France is, of course, the wheat bread country. The increase of 
wheat consumption in that country, as compared with the middle of last 
century, is over 50 per cent. A similar change is taking place in Ger- 



THE BAKEK'S BOOK. 



567 



many, which, next to Russia, has been the country of rye bread. In 1S80 
the proportion of rje to wheat consumed in Germany was as 70 to 30; in 
1894 the proportion had changed to 64 of rj-e to 36 of wheat. In fifteen 
years the consumption of wheat increased over 26 pounds per capita, 
while that of rye decreased 18 pounds. 

Year by year wheat is becoming the world's bread grain. Other 
grains will not be entirely supplanted; on the contrary, we believe com 
will form an increasingly large share of the diet of the people, but people 
will eat it because they like it. Rye bread will always be eaten for the 
same reason. But wheat, as the world gets richer and the people of it 
closer together, will be more and more the world's bread grain. Pejple 
want it and they get it, just as soon as they can afford it. 



HOW MUCH BREAD A MAN EATS. 

The important position bread takes in the list of food of men has 
been demonstrated by Dr. L. Cave in a series of calculations. He shows 
how much bread a normal, heal- 
thy man wiih a good appetite 
con.sumes during a natural life 
of seventy years. .-Mlowing one 
pound loaf a day would make 
25. 500 iKJunds. which would fill 
a room of over 400 cubic 
yards. The comparison illus- 
trated in Fijjure 183, shows th^ 
size of loaf this would make, 
compared with a man of five 
feet eight inches tall. 




568 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



Rutalafid 




D«if«scti€S Ocsfcrrwh. 
Ibich Vnf/tm 

n 41 




a A 



tfer.SC«t V. Sdmredtnl 
Amcrika Uorwtfpt Belfien 

10 S 7.4 



d a 



a 



DanomAflt 
e.4 

I 



Niederlande Rumarncn f^u^ Italien 

44 2.7 2^ 14 

I • • • 



rblen 


6ro3S 

Bntdnnien Schweiz GriechenUnd 


• 


0,7 0.4 0.^ 

1 • • 



KjiHhia. (Ii-rniany. An'^triallunKary. I'rancc. Si»:iin. I 'nitc«l States of America. 

••6i> yM 42 i8 1.2 10 

Swt'«lrri anil .Norway. IU'lK>uni. Denmark. Netherlands. Koumania. Portiig.il Italy. 

8 7-4 ^-4 4-^ -7 'S 1-4 

Scrvia. (ireat Uritain. Swiuerland. ('.recce. 

1.1 0.7 0.4 O.J 



I'itf. 184 — The prudiictinn of Rye in million hect( liter-* hy the nations i)f the earth. 



:ss 



•apior«d 





2 






































































"?? 


iS 




I. is 










^>V»^:»VM» 



^^ •' 



«/> *r/, 



fK,/K y.t 



W^ i.# 


VM W/V 


<^ ?/> 


♦V '/W 


eirji 


»A 5iV 


/i«i #» 


i •'/I i**.: 


'#i ♦*/# 


m. i'0, 


:>/A •>/* 


t Vi *"/ 


\U itU 


ff4. i'tK 


** ^f/ 


1 ' iii.'Wi 


H */J 


\ft.il', 


■/». -^ 


1 f^t '/if 


Wrt,'/w 


¥i lyj '//' 


///, tm 


/ '.'^ '^., 


¥m 


■{."'♦'i 


MV.Mf/ 


1,4'// >;, 


yi, lii'i 


■/»'■ •<» 1 


ih.fM 


»!4'/.»'ll 


IH,M/ 


r^'/K y'»'i 


4<>jir/ 


*>4J '^^z 


\m,'nA 


%M,iwl 


H .H*». /Ol 


fin. 1 1 • 


y.'AJ. IM 


^m, |M 


1.1.1/ ll'i 


ft, IK* 1 


nx v^i 


IH.UUI 


n.MM.MKi 


v;i. run 


ytr.' in/ 


Irft, W'il 


riii 1, •(• 


|N| 


n ii/V 


Nl. <M f 


M.'i •;» 


♦/I. /•»/ 


l.riiii.'ui'i 


It i\\ 


.'•1 Nllll 


HN RO/ 


JI.Vk/.MMt 


Ijvn 


r»/,mm 


r^ .mi 


.If. J<M 


HI 1. .tuv 


^.4-;/, tlu 


i MM 


.W. MX 


J» IMf 


i\v\. %\ 


NM iu:t 


\ 1 . U^A. IM 


ni.oir 


I.MVWl 


if.nu 


:i J.t. \VM 


4 '•* 


W Wl 


M i»)l 


im; ;.v) 


M. !■« » 


wv\,H4 


\>l.l«« 


u>. u» 


»>f,."»Wl 


\)i^.4U 


,i* ,M»^ 


ir; M*! 




»iHV 4«l 


»w \>« 


»^» »» « 


1 *v«»u 


< i»» 


u ,*«* 



'?'.«•. 



ji -pMii>ir 



tK ?^> SK; 



f 



•> ri , 
•/ y,! :— 

J 41 2)''/ , 

■: '0U 

''/^ I't 

1, tin. jvj 

f.il 'f^j 

H.if.':i.>fn 1 

I 

•/, IM 'f«7 ' 

I !•.«. vr.' 
•*l '^-l 

:i. */«./. w/ 

Jh't '»47 

■IMI.T.W 

/. I'W 

447. H."* 

4. 4(Kl. •(».'> 

I'l (i'm 
M. ir. 

.V'JEW.MUI I 

4M.tA7 
10. MO, 17a 

WPRi w44 
•44k47l> 

«•>. 4M 
4M. K-> 

Mkrm 



«K n :-: 



< KT. 



i > 



4 .'- 



SM J» 



f . - .'_ 
■JT, -hi 

>• :>'/# 

1 » M'» 

>'jl i- 

4T.r/.»7 

44,770 

l.XM 

JS4» Oil* 

.11 

1.. Ml. "»•.'» 
1 JIJ 



Kt.Ml 
617. 'AJ 
IM.mO 

I.:i4 
•.V S-4 



. ir "«' 
li* r: 

» 177 
ir X:' 

J -v:2 

4TT /^D 

T-J.:79 

1,X.* .^44 

://& :j'«6 

2. iy7.fA» 
7,1'J«?.40.^ 

2,11^.0^0 

l.til.'JlJ 

-J. 27 J 

3. t.i.;.'*l.i 

43y.«.40 

4. Vl'l. jy'> 

•ly. 4V> 

-•l.:5J4.:.ti 

Mi. l»"»ti 

f>. 0:V». 1)01 
•*- •>-,■» 

4iV.».;u«'. 

lO.OlJ.JJl 
l.lUJ. 410 

:ui.i'*7 
J'-*. ii'> 

^*>7,>>: 
4s: 'J.*: 



"i^ 



:> J-.: I 

€.f:< «^ I 



5. 206 6M 
4?6.2« 

2.J».17« 
306. €D. 



3 

« 
f 

:o 
11 



r.5.c>7«k.%l ' 12 

4.1^\!>ll 13 

i-.9:b 14 

1 »*T.i.7S8 ' 15 

9?J.315 10 

1.^4. 41'> 17 

2,J»J.753 18 

l.JW.5»ol I 19 

4.l40.c;92 JO 

15.420.529 , 21 



4.098,128 ! 


22 


2. 7rt». 4S9 


ia 


It^. **T7 


24 


7,2M.2(i'* ; 


•25 


4if».-iii ; 


2b 


1 , 0;i , ')07 


27 


it;.i:*o 


2** 


K'>9. fi38 


2y 


8. 1S3. 144 1 


:u) 


l2-_' «'>4» 1 


31 


4."..«»-M.2''»l • 


:r2 


106.60.'» 


33 


M.UK) 


34 


9. >57. 2.v> , 


35 


Ml. 8«X) 


•^ 


7:s '.Mf' 


37 


2('.7^.lV4l 


3S 


J i.si.. :y: 


39 


.V4.9l»> 


40 


7^.9Ly 


41 


1 y..-..Ji9 


42 


1 .-0 •■Ifi 


4.i 


..•l .1.- 


• 44 


4::.:-^ 


4> 


V2-' ovi 


4'; 


# 




v-4 .".t 


4 • 


/-" .-\ 


4> 


; !- >> 


-.:• 


^-,*- . -^ 


J 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



569 




United States of America. 

Great Dritain. Italy. 

54 45 

Denmark. Servia. 

8 6^ 



Russia. 

J JO 

Spain. 
40 

rortuKal. 
4 5 



France. 
144 
Roumania. 

•Ncthrrlands. 
3 4 



AuMria-llungary. (ierroany. 

88 76 

Belgium. Sweden and .Norway. 

II 9 . 

Clreece. Swit2crlan«l. 

y.7 i.r 



Pill 185 — Tbe prodaction of Wheat and Barley in million hectoliters hy the nations of the earth. 



570 



THE BAKEK 5 BOOK. 



Heat for Baking. 

FftKrAaiDBT EHIL BRAUN. 
THERnOHETER AND PYROMETER. 

The introduction of machinery and patent bakcovens necessarily 
demand of the up to date baker a more or less technical and theoretical 
education. The one demands the other. The regulation of tempera- 
ture of water, sponge and dough, as well as the regulation of heat In 
bakeshops and the ovens must be studied and the same properly applied. 
"Is the use of the thermometer or some sort of he at -registering 
apparatus imperative? If a man has been in a bakehouse or dwelling 
long enough to know Its construction." writes Mr. J. Blandy, "by feeling, 
fumbling, groping, and using most of his senses, he can find his way over 
it in the dark, with perhaps a stumble now and again over bottom and 
top steps, etc. But if he takes a light with him. no other effort of his 
senses is needed than the sense of sight, and he will also be able to travel 
more safely and quickly." 

Heat expands nearly all substances, while in the cold they shrink, 
particularly metals and liquids. Upon this law of Xature the construction 
and work of the thermometer, or heat measure, is based. The quick- 
silver In the glass tube of the thermometer rises or falls according to 
the influence of heat. The fundamental principle of all heat measures 
is the same, only the construction varies, and wc recognize three standard 
scales, i.e., three separate systems nf degrees: The Reaumur. 
the Celsius and the Fabrfuheit. The Reaumur thfrmnmetcr, 
which is the standard in (lennany. Austria, etc. .has its"5r(i/ii" 
divided into cifibty parts or degrees: the Celsius or Centigrade 
has lOO degrees and is used almost exclusively in France 
and Southern countries of Europe ; the Fahrenheit system K 
used in America and frequently in England, has i8o degrees. 
To indicate the system referred to, when mentioning 
temperature, the roman letters R. C. or F. are used ; for 
instance. 10° R. means 10 degrees Reaumur. These 
"Scaia's" are named after the inventors (Reaumur, bom 
1683, at La Rochelle. France; Celsius, born 1701, at Up- 
sala, Sweden; Fahrenheit, bom 1685, at Danzig. Germany), 
The point at which water freezes is marked on the Reau- 
mur and Celsius Scala with 0° : on the Fahrenheit with 
32°; the boiling point of water (by 760 mm. barometer) 
is on 'the Reaumur 80° ; on the Celsius 100, and on the 
Ti«. .«6.TiimiioiMt«. Fahrenheit 212. The difference or the space between the 




THE BAKER S BOOK. 



571 



freezing point and the boiling point of the three systems is divided 
respectively in 80, 100, 180 equal parts or degrees. 

By Reaumur and Celsius the degrees below the freezing point 
(0°) are marked "mmiij," or "Cold*' degrees ( — o) in contrast to the 
degrees above the freezing point, or "Hcaf degrees marked + (plus). 
On the Fahrenheit thermometer, however, the o** degree is 32 below the 
freezing point. It is, therefore, very important always to mention the 
letters R. C. or F. to indicate which system or "Scala" is used. For 
instance, you would write to Europe : "We had very hot weather yester- 
day; it was 100* in the shade." Not mentioning that you mean 
100° Fahrenheit, they may call you a fakir, an impostor, for the reason 
that, according to their system, the water in the rivers would be boiling 
at 80 degrees Reaumur or 100 degrees Celsius. It may be appropriate 
here to give a table transforming the degrees from one Scala to the 
other : 



1. To transform degrees of Fahrenheit into Reaumur, you deduct z^ irom the 
number F., multiply remaining number by 4 and then divide by 9. For instance, 77° 
F. are equal to 20 R. Deduct z^ from 77 = 45: multiply with 4 = 180; divide 
by = 2a 

To transform Fahrenheit degrees into Celsius, deduct 32, multiply by 5 and 
divide by 9. 

2. To transform Celsius into Reaumur, multiply by 4 and divide by 5. To 
transform Celsius into Fahrenheit, take the number of C degrees i 4-5 times and 
add 32. 

3. To transform R.' into C, take the number of R. iJ4 times. R.* arc trans- 
formed into F. by taking the number of R.** 2% times and add 32. 



R. 


C 


F. 


R. 


C 


F. 


80* 


100* 


212® 


14 


17.5 


63.5 


76 


95 


203 


12 


15 


59 


72 


90 


194 


10 


12.5 


54.5 


68 


85 


185 


8 


10 


50 


64 


80 


176 


sH 


7% 


45 


60 


75 


167 


4 


5 


41 


56 


70 


158 


2 


2.5 


36.5 


Sa 


65 


149 








32 


48 


60 


140 


— 4 


— 5 


23 


44 


55 


131 


— 6 


— 7.5 


1&5 


40 


so 


122 


— 8 


—10 


14 


2IS 


45 


113 


—10 


—12.5 


9^5 


34 


42.5 


10S.5 


—12 


—15 


5 


32 


40 


104 


—14 


—18 


0.5 



572 







THE baker's 


BOOK. 






30 


37-5 


99.5 


—16 


m 


— 4 


38 


35 


95 


—20 


—25 


—13 


26 


32.5 


90.5 


—24 


—30 


—22 


24 


30 


86 


—28 


—35 


—31 


22 


27.5 


81.5 


—32 


—40 


—40 


20 


25 


77 


-36 


-45 


—49 


i8 


22. s 


72.5 


—40 


—50 


-58 


i6 


20 


68 









THERMOMETERS. 

The column of mercury in the tube of a thermometer seems to be 
round, and about one-sixteenth of an inch in diameter. As a matter of 
fact it is flat, and a good deal finer than one of the hairs of your head, 
says the Pittsburg Dispatch. 

When a maker of the instrument was heard to say this he was asked 
for an explanation, and he thereupon told some things abou the work 
that are not generally known. 

As mercury does not expand to any great extent, it is absolutely 
necessary that the opening in the thermometer should be very fine, and 
it is made flat because, if it were round, its fineness would make it too 
hard to be seen. Its apparent size, about ten times its real size, is due to 
the magnifiying effect of the glass. 

Mercury is used in thermometers because it is so regular in its ex- 
pansion and contraction. Spirits of wine is sometimes used, with color- 
ing matter added, but it is not perfectly accurate. The degree marks on 
a mercury thermometer are the same distance apart the whole length of 
the scale, but in a spirit thermometer the marks are further apart above, 
say forty degrees, than they are below that, because expansion of the 
spirit increases in a greater ratio above that point. 

It is generally supposed that the tube of a thermometer is made to 
conform to the scale, but it is just the other way — the mercury is put into 
the bulb and then the scale is graduated to the requirements of the tube. 

The mercury is injected into the tube by evaporation. Its divisibility 
is remarkable ; it may be forced through a piece of wood, and yet every 
particle will be a perfect globule. — N. Y. World. 



BAKE OVEN ANGLE STE/l THERMOMETERS. . 

Mercury thermometers for bake ovens have not been extensively used 
heretofore on account of their liability to breakage, as well as constant 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



separation of mercury column. Both of these defects have been success- 
fully overcome in the form of instruments illustrated here. They have 
been adapted for all kinds of ovens and are extensively used in many of 




the largest bakeries. The simplest form bake oven thermometer has an 
oval flange fixed to scale case (sec illustration) and can be attached to 
any oven by simply inserting a piece of iron pipe as a sleeve. 



PVROnETERS. 

These latest improved "Bake Oven Pyrometers" have the following 
advantages above other Pyrometers, which are in the market and are 
adapted for any style of oven. The movements are made non-corrosive, 
also the inner expansion stems of same, thus insures better wear. The 
inner and outer expansion stems of the Pyrometers are made very sensi- 
tive and (he hand on the dial-plate will show instantly the least variations 
if the oven becomes too hot or too cold. Also by its use green hands 
may be broken in at the oven, there need to be no uncertainty or guess 




»■ Improxd Pyromtttr. 

work as to the temperature of the oven and consquently no chance of 
burnt bread or crackers and it is a positive fact with the oven at the 
proper temperature more work can be done in a given time. 

These "Bake Oven Pyrometers" have also an adjusting screw on the 
back of the case, to adjust the pointer on the dial-plate to the tempera- 
ture of the atmosphere generally 60 degrees, which the Pyrometer should 
always show when cold. By this adjusting screw every baker can set the 



574 THE baker's book. 

Pyrometers if they should become out of order or when they need re- 
adjusting. 

The Pyrometer needs neither attention nor lubrication, it is always 
ready for use. 

Length of stem from end to end as shown in the cut is 36 inches. 

There is also a vast difference in the permanency of the temperatures* 
of internally and externally heated ovens. In the ovens heated from the 
outside, where the fire place is underneath the oven chamber, the fire 
can be kept burning during the time the batch of bread is baking, and 
these ovens are called '^Continuous' bakers. The fire can be kept up 
indefinitely and the heat refreshed at any time. The heat absorbed by 
the loaves, when put into this style of oven, is replenished during the 
actual time of baking, by a continuous heat drawn from the fire beneath 
the hearth. In the old style oven, with the fire inside the oven, the fire 
necessarily has either been dumped or is nearly out or covered over with 
ashes or an iron shield. It is plain that there must be sufficient heat 
stored in the baking chamber to last for one or more bakings, as the 
fire can not be replenished during baking. Consequently in the ovens 
with the fire inside of the oven chamber, a higher degree of heat will 
be necessary at the start of baking than in the ovens heated externally. 

Not every flour produces loaves of the same rich colored crust, if 
baked in the same heat, and under all the same identical conditions. 
Some brands of flour will require as much as 20 degrees more heat than 
others, to produce the same rich golden colored crust. The regulation of 
the proper oven temperature must therefore be left to the "man at the 
oven/' 

TEHPERATURE OF DOUGH AND SHOP. 

It is hardly possible to give a certain scale for the exact degrees at 
which to take the water for making dough. The hardness of the water, 
the strength and vitality of the yeast and the stability of the flour used 
are all conditions to be considered to say nothing about the fluctuations 
of the atmosphere. The proper temperature of the dough, when taken 
from the mixer is considered by experienced bakers to be between 78 and 
82 degrees F. The time it will have to stand to ripen or aerate must be 
fudged by the foreman or the man in charge of the doughroom. 

Mr. John Blandy, of London, gives the following rules how to 
ascertain a required temperature of dough. He says : 

"The temperature, or degree of heat of a dough can always be 
vithin a degree, by adding together the number of degrees of 



THE baker's book. 575 

heat in the flour to the degrees in the water, and then dividing by two, 
which will give the heat of the dough when made. Say that the heat of 
the dough when made is 80 degrees F.. and the heat of the flour is 60 
degrees, then the heat of the water must be 100 degrees F. This will 
make 160 degrees, half of 160 degrees being 80 degrees, the required 
heat of the dough. When the heat required is 78 degrees, and the flour 
58 degrees, the water must be 98 degrees; these added together make 
156 degrees, half of which is 78 degrees, and so on to insure any heat in 
dough." 

Although the above rule may be applied as nearly right, we can not 
agree with Mr. Blandy that the exact degree of heat of the dough can 
always be obtained by his method. He does not seem to take into con- 
sideration the loss of heat while dough is in the mixer ; and then, the first 
dough made after the mixer has stood idle for a number of hours will 
naturally reduce the heat of the water and flour more than the second 
dough, especially in winter, unless the shop is kept at a certain tempera- 
ture all the time. To prove this statement -we quote Prof. Wm. Jago 
from his standard work **Science and Art of Bread Making." On page 
6 he gives results of observations on temperatures of doughs as follows: 

"A number of observations have been made on the temperatures of 
mixtures made in the bakehouse on the large scale for manufacturing 
purposes. The doughs were machine mixed and no allowance is made 
for the salt and compressed yeast, quantities of which were the same in 
all cases. The quantities, temperatures, and calculated specific heats are 
given in the following table : 





- WATER — 






FLOUR 


-^DOUGH^ 


Quarts 


Lbs. 


Temp. F. 


Lbs. 


Temp. F. 


Temp. F. 


53 


132.5 


95' 


20s 


52.5* 


79.0* 


51 


127$ 


90- 


20s 


Sao* 


77.0' 


51 


1^.5 


90- 


ao5 


Sao* 


77.0* 


53 


13^5 


98* 


20$ 


53.0* 


79.0* 


53 


13^5 


89* 


aos 


53.0' 


Tdo* 


53 


132.5 


89* 


20s 


53.0- 


76^* 



The whole of these figures, it must be remembered, are those ob- 
tained in experiments made under conditions such as hold in the bake- 
house, and represent rather the result of actual working, than theoretic 
specific heats with all disturbing causes eliminated. In the case of the 
mixtures made at the highest temperatures, there is naturally a greater 



576 THE baker's B(X)K. 

loss of heat, and this causes an increase in the corresponding apparent 
specific heats. 

A very interesting paper on the above subject was read by Mr. W. 
S. Corby, of Washington, D. C, at the Convention of the National As- 
sociation of Master Bakers in Detroit. We reprint the same here in full : 

Temperature in Dough Making. 

It is well known in bread making, that by careful attention to the 
temperature of the bakery or dough room, and the temperature and 
weight of the flour and water, which constitute the major portion of the 
dough, that a painstaking workman is able to make a dough at a desired 
temperature; that is, a temperature he knows it is necessary to have in 
order to allow him to accomplish certain results, such as a fixed time for 
the fermenting period, age of the dough, different characters of bread, 
etc.; but after the dough is made, the baker is at the mercy of atmos- 
pheric conditions over which he has had no control; for instance, at the 
time he makes his dough, he may have a dry clear and bracing atmos- 
phere to work in ; and after his dough has been made, say two or three 
hours, the conditions will be entirely changed, the atmosphere becoming 
close, moist and sultry, which has its immediate effect on the dough, 
making it soft, and weak, and even though it may be given a good age. 
the baked bread will have a young appearance and be dark in color. 

Then again, the temperature may suddenly drop ; the atmosphere 
becoming quite cold to what was expected when the dough was made, 
which condition is liable to chill the dough, retarding fermentation and 
putting the work back in the shop, and when the baked bread finally 
comes from the oven, it is a small indifferent loaf, and always has a poor 
texture ; but of all the sudden changes that the baker has to contend 
with, the one that makes him the most serious trouble, is when the tem- 
perature of the atmosphere suddenly increases, say from 80 to 95 degrees 
F. or more, for this (too often) means sour bread, and even though the 
bread may not be sour, we are sure that bread made in a temperature of 
90 degrees F. or more is not as good as bread when made at a tempera- 
ture of from 80 to 82 degrees F., for as the temperature increases above 
this point, the gluten in the dough softens and loses its strength and 
acids develop whereby it is impossible to obtain as wholesome and nutri- 
tious bread as when made under more temperate conditions, and this, 
we believe, is one of the main reasons why the average person does not 
eat as much bread in hot weather as in cold. The atmospheric condi- 



THE baker's book. 577 

lions here referred to, and many others that it would be aknost impos- 
sible to mention, are liable to occur at any time. 

We commenced to cast about for a means of counteracting these un- 
desirable elements, whereby we could be quite independent of outside 
influences, and the most practical scheme that suggested itself to us was 
a refrigerating room for the doughs and ice machinery to be used in 
connection with the same, similar in character and operation to that used 
by cold storage plants. 

To start with, we have a room 32 feet long, 15 feet wide, and lo 
feet high, which gives us ample room for ten troughs holding in all 
fifteen thousand pounds of dough. The walls, ceiling and floor being 
constructed as follows: First, one-inch dressed pine boards; then two 
sheets of heavy, water-proof, building paper; then one-inch dressed 
boards ; then 2x6 lumber fastened on to the same every five feet, making 
a two-inch dead air space between; after this, another thickness. of one- 
inch dressed boards and then two more sheets of heavy water-proof 
building paper, covered again by one-inch dressed pine boards all care- 
fully fastened together, forming a wall six and one-half inches thick. 

ThtTe are many ways of building refrigerating rooms, but this con- 
struction gives us the very best satisfaction, as we are able to maintain 
a temi)crature of 70 degrees F. in the dough room with very little atten- 
tion, when the temperature outside of the room is often from 90 to 105 
degrees F. 

To cool the dough room, we use an ice machine. op>erated on the 
direct expansion system, where the ammonia is expanded directly into 
the pipe coils that are suspended about eight inches from the ceiling of 
- the room. L'nder each coil of pipe is provided a drip pan set at an 
angle of 45 degrees to the coils, and the cold air will follow the pan down 
on the upi)er side, and the warm air will follow the pan up on the under- 
side, causing a complete circulation of air in the room : and as the frost 
that collects on the pipe coils is formed from what moisture may be in 
the air, you can see that the atmosphere in the room is always compara- 
tively dry. for the frost on the pipes will attain different thicknesses as 
the moisture in the air may be present, and very soft doughs feel de- 
cidedly dryer to the touch than a very stiff dough will, where it is sub- 
ject to a moist air and high temperature during the fermenting period. 

The advantages we most obser\'e with the refrigerating plant are as 
follows : 

1st. We are able to control the doughs as we see fit. 

2d. Each dough follows up the preceding dough to the minute, do- 



57^ THE baker's book. 

ing away with delays caused by the doughs coming slowly, or careless 
work caused by the doughs coming so fast that they cannot be properly 
handled for fear of their becoming sour before being baked. 

3d. The dough is healthier, and even when given good age, tastes 
and smells as sweet as when first made, because acids that destroy the 
good flavor in bread cannot so rapidly develop. 

4th. We are able to use less flour in the dough than would other- 
wise be required to make the same kind of bread. 

5th. The dough becomes stronger in an atmosphere where the 
temperature is about 70 degrees F. than it would in the ordinarily hot 
temperature of the bake-shop of 90 degrees F. or more, which means 
larger loaf volume and all around better bread. 

6th. The entire amount of bread manufactured under these condi- 
tions will average decidedly more uniform in size, color and texture, 
which generally means an increase in business. 

7th. It simplifies the conditions with which the baker has to con- 
tend. For example, the dough made at a temperature of 82 degrees F. 
and then placed in the dough room at a temperature of 70 degrees F. 
will, when ready to be divided up into loaves, be at the same temperature 
of 82 degrees F. 

8th. It should be impossible to make sour bread ; and that could 
only happen through inexcusable carelessness. 

The cost to maintain and operate our cold storage plant is ninety 
cents every twenty-four hours, which not only includes the refrigerating 
dough room, but also a room with the temperature at 35 degrees F., for 
keeping milk, yeast, etc.. and a cold-water tank that supplies us with 
two hundred gallons of water per hour at a temperature of 33 degrees 
F., and after having the same in operation during the hot months of 
the past summer, we know that the standard of bread that we have been 
able to make has been above that which it would have been if we had not 
had the cold storage plant in operation. 

The fermenting period, formerly a source of much guess work 
and anxiety with us, has now reached such a point of assurance and ac- 
curate conditions that bread making is now a pleasure. 

In shops which have no regular proving rooms, where the dough 
is kept under even temperature in the troughs and closely watched, some 
attention must be paid to the temperature near the floor as well as higher 
up. Here is where some bakers make, a mistake. They have a ther- 
mometer hung in the shop, about five to six feet from the floor, and 
calculate the shop temperature from that. If they place another thcr- 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 579 

mometer near the floor, they may find quite a difference between the 
two, especially in winter. Mr. August P. Junge, of Joplin, Mo., one 
of the best known younger men in the baking business writes : 

**The temperature of our doughs is always taken as they are set. 
This will act as a guide in case it turns colder the next day, when the 
temperature can be raised a degree or two. In making the doughs, the 
temperature is taken before all the water is poured on and the remaining 
water poured on accordingly. In this way the doughs can be made to a 
desired temperature. For taking the temperature of the doughs I use 
an ordinary dairy thermometer." 

The air in a bakeshop will also affect the doughs. I have found 
that on a Sunday the doughs act slower than on other days ; the reason 
for this I have laid to the air, it probably being purer and more free from 
yeast cells. Our shop is thoroughly aired on Saturday, and this probably 
causes it. 

I have also found that some shops require less yeast than others. 
This is also caused by the air and perhaps the cleanliness of the shop. 
Our shop is well ventilated, but also requires more yeast than some 
others. 

The temperature of the bakeshop during the operation of molding 
is another important feature in producing uniform bread, as a dough 
ferments more while it lays on the bench than at any other stage. 



THE OVEN HEAT, 



The heat in a bake-oven can and should be kept under perfect con- 
trol by the foreman or ovenman, just as an engineer keeps his engine un- 
der control. A pyrometer or thermometer can be adjusted to every make 
of oven, whether brick, iron or sheet-iron. Of course a general scale of 
degrees to all ovens cannot be adopted. The thickness of the brick walls 
through which the tube has to run before it reaches the recording dial, 
or the proximity to the fireplace, will have to be considered. But after 
the baker has once fixed the scale in his oven, he can always depend on 
it. There are three different scales or systems of heat measuring — the 
Rt-anuir, the Celsius and the 1^'ahrenhcit. The latter is the most popu- 
lar and is used exclusively by American bakers. There arc three meth- 
ods employed by bakers in judging the heat for baking: 

A sharp or bread heat, 450 to 520 degrees l*". 

A medium or cake heat, 360 to 450 degrees. 



580 TUE baker's book. 

A slow or drying heat, 300 to 360 degrees. 

In general the heat mentioned for breadbaking is 500 
Fahrenheit. 

After one or more trials a baker will know how high the heat in his 
oven should be for the various kinds of baking. One baker told me 
recently that he heats his patent oven only to 360 degrees for bread. 
Portable ovens are generally heated a little higher than brick, because 
the heat coming through the thinner walls causes the thermometer to 
rise c|uicker than where a thick wall is first to be passed through. 

The Hubbard Oven Co. gives the following scale of degrees for 
the pyrometer on their ovens : 

**This should register 450 to 500 degrees for bread, rolls, pies, etc., 
and say 350 for cookies and H^ht cakes. A few days' trial, however. 
will be a better instructor to vou than anvthincf we can tell vou, as bakers 
differ in their opinion of the amount of heat required for the several 
bakings." 

Special care should be taken not to heat the oven too quickly for 
bread. A so-callc*! ilasli heat is not j^ood at beginning: of baking. 
In a flash heat the crust on the bread is formed too (|uickly, and will get 
brown before the water from the inside dough can be sufficiently evap- 
orated ; the crust burns and the inside remains raw. We also have to con- 
sider whether the oven is to ])e filled or only partly filled at each baking. 
if the oven is filled to the door and each loaf is close to the other (espe- 
cially in pan bread), it takes from ten lo fifteen minutes longer to bake a 
batch than when the oven is unlv half full, and the loaves not so close 
together. 

An old method recommended for novices in baking is to place a 
piece of pa])er inside the oven ^loor. If it lakes about five minutes to 
bake the pajjer a dark brown, the oven is about right for bread. If the 
j)aper burns in a minute or so. the heat is to<.) flashy. If the paper 
doesn't brown at all in five minutes, the oven is too cold for bread. 

Some bakers throw a handful of flour into the oven to test the 
heat. If it burns at once, the oven is loo hot. \\y watching how long it 
takes to burn, the various sta*j:es of heat mav be determined. 

A practical baker will arran<;e his baking according to the oven. 
If it is heated to the proi)er bread heat, the fire should- be stopp)cd and 
the dampers closed. If the bread-baking is finished (not more than two 
batches ) and the oven has rested a while, or the dampers have been 
drawn — the heal being about 400 degrees — it should be ready, without 
any more fire, for pie>, cookies, dropcakes, etc. Then, with the heat at 



SWITZERLAN'D 







^m 



^p 








THE BAKEK'S book. 58 1 

360 degrees, winecakes, cupcakes, macaroons and kisses could be baked. 
Of course we have now the modern continuous baking ovens, in which 
bread can be baked continuously. See chapter on Bakeovcns. 

The Canadian Baker in an article on heating ovens says: "A 
great deal of fuel may be saved and the spoiling of goods avoided by a 
careful study and mastering of the oven. It is appalling the waste and 
loss that accrues through mismanagement and carelessness in this respect. 
A good ovenman is worth a good deal to an establishment." 



TEHPERATURE OF BREAD DURING BAKING. 

In the baking process of bread the constituents are exposed to a vary- 
ing temperature according to their location in diflferent parts of the loaf, 
says the London Miller. Very little is on record as to the temperature 
attained in the oven during baking. Jago says that the temperature 
should be from 220 to 2(k> degrees C. iVobably the ordinary tempera- 
ture of the bake oven is over 200 degrees C. The exterior of the loaf is 
exposed fully to this degree of heat, but the interior, owing to the large 
amount of moisture present, can scarcely be heated beyond the boiling 
point of water. Some direct observations made upon the temperature of 
the interior of the loaf have, by means of maximum recording thermome- 
ters embedded in the dough, shown that it docs not exceed lOO degrees to 
102 degrees C in diflferent i)arts of the loaf, therefore, the carlx>hydrates 
are exposed in a moist condition to a tenii>erature ranging from 100 
degrees to 258 degrees C I'nder these conditions, particularly at the 
higher temperature sucrose would undergo slight inversion, but invert su- 
gar would not be aflfected. The chief change would be produced in 
starch. When suspended in water, all varieties of starch are converted 
into soluble forms at a temperature of 100 degrees or less. This action 
becomes less marked when the starch is merelv moist. Drv starch is 
said to be converted into soluble forms at 200 degrees. According to 
these views the starch of bread should be largely rendered soluble by the 
heat of baking. That this is not the case is pointed out by Jago, and 
also appears from the experimental data obtained at Purdue University. 
The small amotnrt "bf soluble starch, dextrin, etc.. found is doubtless pro- 
duced in the crust of the loaf. The starch of the interior is hardly 
heated beyond 100 degrees, and this is not sufficient in the absence of an 
excess of moisture to produce the change to the soluble form. As to the 
effect of these conditions of heat and moisture upon the pentosans, hemi- 



5«2 



iHic bak:;k s b^wk. 



celluloses, an<I true celluloses but little is known. There is every reason to 
believe, however, that these constituents of flour undergo little or no change 
during the processes of preparing or baking bread. 

Some careful investigations have been made by M. Balland on the 
temperature which is reached in the interior of a loaf of bread during^ 
baking, and ihe results were published in the "Comples Rendus." Paris, 
Delicate (liermomcters were inserted in the dough before placing it in the 
oven, and on the removal of the loaf the temperature recorded was care- 
fidly noted. It seaned that coiurary lo the opinions expressed by some 
investigators that the heat generated in the crumb of the bread never 
exceeds 212 degrees Talir.. that is to say the temperature of boiling; 
water, M. lialland finds that it invariably attains from 212 to 216 degrees 
Fahr., while that of the oiuer erust. which cannot form at this tempera- 
ture, is very much higher, Thtse exporimcnts were made on various 
kinds of bread baked in different sort of ovens, so that they may be taken 
as conclusive as regards the normal tanpcraturc reached during the man- 
ufacture of bread. 




THE BAKKH'S book. 583 

The rianufactureof Compressed Yeast. 

A baker's book would not be complete without some reference to the 
manufacture of compressed yeast, an anicle which, since its introduction 
into the United States some thirty odd years ago, has revolutionized the 
industry of bread baking in all its branches. An opportunity was recent- 
ly afforded the editor to visit the compressed yeast works of the Fleisch- 
mann Manufacturing Company and inspect the process of manufacture 
(or more correctly speaking, cultivation and preparation) of this now 



.SllHi^i^^'ia"-^--*, 



Fig iSg -UlK.r=lury. 

almost universally used article — by wholesale and retail bakers and 
houM-liold C(K)ks alike — and he left marveling at the exactitude which 
characterizes every step in the several processes through which compressed 
yeast passes, at this plant, before it is ready to be placed on the market. 

The Works are located at Charles Point. Peekskill-on-the-Hudspn, 
an ideal sikX for the location of a plant handling a food prodqct or any- 
thing which enters into man's food, the hygienic conditions being unsur- 
passed. The plant was completed in the summer of 1900. is the largest 
of its kind in the work) and is equipped throughout with the most modem 
machinery ami appliances, many of the latter being unique and designed 
by experts in the employ of the Fleischmann Manufacturing Company. 



TBE baker's book. 585 

The accompanying bird's-eye view gives but an inadequate idea of the 
size of the plant, but its magnitude may be comprehended when it is 
stated that it covers one hundred acres of ground. In the upper right- 
hand corner of the picture is the marine tower and granary. In the ma- 
rine tower the grain, which has been conveyed to it either,from boats or 
cars, is carefully blown (and thus freed from dust), screened and cleaned, 
after which it is conveyed to the granary which has a capacity of 350,000 
bushels of grain. Unly the best and finest grades of malt, rye and com 




Fig. 191.— Muh Roooi. 

are nscd, all of which grain is chemically tested by an expert chemist and 
lus staf{; a section of his laboratory is shown herewith. (Fig. 189). 

From the granary the grain is conveyed to the mill, the high building 
to ihc left of the granary where it is ground preparatory to being sub- 
jected to the first process in the cultivation of Yeast therefrom, which 
operation is conducted in the building immediately in front of the mi!!. 
From thence the product in the course of preparation is run into the 
building facing that last referred to, where it is advanced another stage in 



Till': UAKEk'S BOOK, 




THE BAKER'S BOOK. 587 

the process. The Yeast U then carefully collected, thoroughly freed from 
the particles of grain or hulls which may adhere, washed with distilled 
water and conveyed to immense tubs. Fig. lyi. With the Yeast a portion 
of water passes into the tubs, and in order to separate the two (as kr as 
is [Mjsiiible by gravity), the Yeast is allowed to settle to the bottom of the 
tub. When this has been done, the Yeast is removed from the settling 
tubs and pressed by means of powerful hydraulic presses for the purpose 
uf extracting this remaining water and leaving the Yeast in a compact 
mass, and from this process the name "Compressed Yeast" originated. 



, j^i^'^'^j'' 


r" 


rn 



The Vfast is now ready for packing into the boxes in which ii is shipped. 
.\ picture of the press and (Kicking room is shown in I'ig. iijj. The 
hoxes of Yeast which contain about Co lbs. each, arc then placed in a 
refrigerator, which has a capacity of 2.000 boxes, where it remains until 
the hour of shipment arrives. Fleischmann & Co.. of New York City, 
handle the entire output of the Fleischmann Manufacturing Co.'s plant, 
and the Yeast is shipped to them in cars especially constructed to protect 
it from ]X)ssib}e injury by excessive heat or cold during trans)X)rtation, it 
being exceedingly susceptible to changes in temperature. The writer 
was much impresse<l with the scrupulous cleanliness which prevails- 



588 THE baker's book. 

throughout the whole of the processes in preparing the YeasL Most of 
the work is done by machinery without the intervention of manual labor, 
and the Yeast is carefully protected from injurious outside influences at 
every stage of the process of preparation. 

To run this enormous plant a battery of twelve boilers is necessary, 
part of which arc shown in I-ig. 193; also two Corhss steam engines, one 
direct dfctric and one connected electric engine, as shown in Figure 194, 
and a refrigerator plant of 100 tons capacity. 

It takes about one and one-half miles of railroad track on the 





^. 



RTOUnds of these works to accommodate tlie freight cars necessary for the 
business, and Figure 195 shows a picture of the locomotive owned by the 
corporation, which is kept constantly busy shifting cars in and out, and 
from one point to another. 

As stated at the outset, the introduction of Compressed Yeast revo- 
lutionized the baking industry in this country: in fact, the marked im- 
provement in tlie quality of bread now produced as compared with thirty 
years ago dates from the time the use of this article was adopted. Com- 
pressed Yeast makes uniformly better bread — produced by the use of 
Compressed Yeast, but other material advantages are secured by bakers. 



TH£ BAKER S BOOK. 



589 



By the use of properly prepared C(»npresse<] Yeast the danger of having 
sour bread is reduced to a minimutn. There is no need for enlarging 
upon this advantage ; every baker will appreciate it. 

The uniformity in quality and strength and the consequent uniformity 
in results obtained is another point gained by the use of Compressed 
Yeast, and in these days when the baking business is being done under 
more systematic methods than was the case a few years ago, this is a most 
important feature — to the small baker and the large wholesaler alike — 
as the time required in turning out a batch of bread can be determined to 
a nicety, which is not the case when the quality or strength of the leaven 
used varies from day lo day. 

^Vllother advantage in favor of Compressed Yeast is that it [wssesses 




-The Fkuhoun Locomotlre 



more activity, and consequcnlly works quicker than any other yeast, and 
as "lime is money" this feature will commend itself to every enter- 
prising baker. 

But after all, the fact that by the use of Compressed Yeast of good 
quality a white, fine grained, well flavored bread, with a rich colored 
crust can be produced, is the principal reason why its use is advocated in 
this article, for the American public of to-day wants the best and the 
up-to-date baker who caters to this demand and turns out the best loaf of 
bread is going to do the largest business and the demand for shorter 
working hours one part of the workmen is another important point to be 
considered by the baker>- proprietor, and he surely welcomes every im- 



TIIK IIAKKKS WVlK. 



provemer' in the manufacture u£ a reliable, quick working, uniform 
ciiiiiprt'Siscd y(;ast. 



SPIELMANN'S YEAST AND VINEGAR PLANT, CHICAaO. 

W'f rqircsun here illiistratinns of another well known firm, engaged 
in the niiinutaciurL- of L.'om]irt'Ssi'il Veast, the Spielman Bro/s Company, 
i>{ Ctiicsif^ii. 




'rwcnty-Ptvcn vtiirs apt IVtcr Spidmann. a baker by profession ami 
» lin at that time was tin- propriiior of a wcll-esiabHshecl bakery in Chicago, 
concltidecl ic> ^o into thi- nianufactnrt: uf coiiipresse<l yeast and he finally 
succeeded in establishing a steady patronage for his product and had to 
build a large new plant. The present masbinji capacity is 8oo bushels 
a c!:iy and it is rinniin}; ti> tlie fnl! ariacity. 



TIIK DAKKlJ S niMIK. 



N' 

;< 


^^i 




1 






1 

•1 


1;^ 


iiC3 




Fig. iv9-7H:>nR R< 



THE- BAKEI-S BOOK. 




FiK. i^^j— Sublo. 



r\ 



THE baker's book. 593 



Evolution of Baking: Machinery. 

Prepared by Emil Braun. 

At the dawn of the twentieth century, it would be a sign of madness 
to deny the advantages of machinery, or to complain of its introduction 
into the baking business. Machinery has made possible the establish- 
ment of the large wholesale bake shops and the extension of the business 
in ways which a few years ago seemed impossible. But it by no means 
follows that because machinery is, in a measure, revolutionizing the trade, 
it will drive the small baker out of the business. On the contrary, it is 
not unlikely, in the end, that machinery will strengthen the place of the 
retail baker in the trade. The neighborhood bakery is as essential to 
modern conditions of life as the comer grocery and the corner drug store. 
The big department stores, have temporarily and to a limited extent, in- 
jured the business of the latter, but they have not driven the grocer and 
the druggist from the field of competition. These still hoM their place 
and will continue to do so, because they supply an actual need in the 
community. The wholesale bakeries are, to some extent, cutting into 
the business of the small retailers, but they have not, and cannot, drive 
them from the trade. There should be trade enough for them both. 

What the retailer must do, and is doing, is to accommodate himself 
as much as .he can to the new conditions of the business. The subject 
of the introduction of machinery is now occupying the thoughts of bakers 
as never before. The question as it presents itself to the small baker is 
one of ways and means. He recognizes the advantages of machinery, 
but doubts whether the size of his trade warrants its introduction and 
often finds his room rather limited. 

An illustrated description of the evolution in modern improvements 
in bakcrv construction, machinery and bakeovens will undoubtedly inter- 
est the readers of this work. For this purpose we have gathered some 
plans of modem bakeries in different countries, various styles of kneading 
and mixing machines and other utensils and bake ovens. To commence 
with, we can compare the old way of carrying the heavy bags of flour up 
two and three flights of stairs or down into the basement with the 
easy convenience of the modem elevator, run by power, either gas or elec- 
tricity. In Germany the bakers still use windlasses turned by hand to a 
great extent. This is a marked improvement over the old style of carry- 
ing the bags, but is not popular in America. 



TUB BAKEKS BOOK. 



|[W —ft- ^^ 






lour Elevilor (Ccnninr). 



Siftiii}; Apparatus. — A niiniber of devices for this purpose have been 
invented and patented, and with the growing popularity of blending dif- 




ferent brands of flour the so-called "Blender!^' have become almost a 

necessity in a modem bakery. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 




Fi«. 1U4.— Flout SifUr ((rftinan Slyl*). Dtrhil i Co.. lUIIc. Sixoay. 



TUE BAKEKS UOUK. 




Fin. .-05.— Hand Biiler (Wrrner & IMIfiderer). 




Fig. aofi.— Hour Bib Cleaning MicMnc^ 



THE B.\Ki;i<S BOOK. 




l)<>uKh Wagon (Wood). 



Dough Trouj^hs. — It almost set-ins as if the wootlt-n doupli -troughs 
are doomed. Sanitary ideas in the baking; business have placed the 
ban upon any and ai! devices that may Ix.-ciinie a place i>f lodpnj; for 
perms or bacilli — most all bakers uf up-to-date teiulencics arc rcplacinjj 
the wooden troughs with stce! trouRlis. They are miw made in various 
sizes and sha|X's to meet the reciuircinciiis of the different b.'.ke-shops. 
Some arc heavier, some lighter, some are made of sleet, some cn.Tmcled 
or galvanized, and simie have a wixiden frame, lined with sheets of 
polished steel. All are placed on rollers, so they can lie niove<l from one 
part of the shop to another. Ilnwever. iron troughs are more suscept- 
ible to changes of teni|RTatnre in the bake-house than wooden troughs, 

Mr. Itoettler, of St. I.ouis. made the following .statement regardinff 
iron troughs at the National Convention: "Wc have been using iron 




Sy8 THE BAKtR'S BOOK. 

troughs for twelve years, we would not liave any other, there is absolute- 
ly no difference in the temperature of the iron. If the temperature of the 
room is the same, the idea that a wooden trough is a non-conductor and 
will keep the temperature of the dough more uniform than the iron is 
ridiculous, because the temperature in the room regulates the tempera- 




1 Duugh Trough ( 



n Mind with cutor 



ture of the dough in the trough. We would not have wooden troughs 
again, if given to us. The iron troughs are cleaner because they are 
easily cleaned out. You take a little lard and rub it over the trough and 
it is always clean, I even believe the disease called "rope" is merely 
caused by the uncleanliness of the baking troughs. You can never clean 
a wooden trough as thoroughly." 



Tilt: Il.'.KKkS IHNtK. 



599 



Mr. Nasmith, of Toronto, recommended iron troughs of shorter size 
in place of the usual lO or I2 foot troughs. 

The use of iron or steel troughs surrounded with a jacket which may 
be filled with hot or cold water, as occasion may require, has also been 
rLComniended, 

With regard to iron troughs which are not jacketed or covered with 
a non-conducting coating of some sort, it is often argued that metal is 
colder than wood, but, strictly speaking, this is not so, metal is simply a 




— Dough W»gon (w1 



better conductor of heat : the supposed rreater coldness of imn than wood 
is due, not to its reall>' ln-ing so, hut to its creating the sensation of great- 
er coldness when touched. A piece of iron and a piece of wood may both 
be at the same temperature when tested by the thennometer, yet, when 
thty are touched alternately with the hand, the iron, if both are below 
loo degrees Fahrenheit, will feci colder than the wood; but if both are 
above that temperature, then the iron will feel the hotter. The sensa- 
tion of cold in the first case is due to the ereat conductivity of iron, which, 
being colder than the hand, quickly abstracts the heat from it. and thus 



6oo 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



reduces its temperature ; while wood, having low conductivity, does not 
carry off the lieat from the hand quickly, hence does not produce the same 
sensation of cold. When the iron and wood, on the other hand, are both 
at a temperature above that of the hand, the passage of heat is then from 
the substance to the hand, and the iron parting with its heat at a much 
<juicker rate than the wood, seenjs to be hotter. What, then, will be the 
effects on dough when placed respectively in an iron or a wooden trough? 
In the case of a dough made comparatively warm, as in winter, and 
placed in an iron trough, the dough, if at a temperature higher than the 
atmosphere of the bakery, would more quickly lose some of its heat than 
if it had been placed in a wooden trough; but if the temperature of the 
bakery were higher than that of the dough, then the iron trough would 
be the more suitable for allowing the heat of the bakery to pass through 




Tig. an.— Flour Sifier ind Blendir fBerge-Borbeck SysttmJ. 



THE BAtCEKS BOUK. 




(Shoving Modern Equl|HBeill>. 



to the tloiigh. In tlic sumnicr time, when the difficulty is to keep dough 
cool ciumtih. a wooden trough would be better suited for keeping the 
dough uroiected at llu- Iwltoiii from the heat of the bakcrv. while one of 
iron would in e\erj- case tend to «|uali2e the heat of the dough and the 
atniospbtre. whither the heat is that first given to the dough by the use 
of hot wattr, or whether it is due to heat generated by the process of fer- 
ineutatioii. It will thus be seen that in Itakeries where iron troughs are 
in use. the regulation of the temperature of the bakerj- must always be 
a matter of much more consequence than it is in those bakeries in which 
w<HMi(;n troughs arc used. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 




Kig. 3M.-Amomaiii: Fl 



md Hilttt [Hick! & Schmidt, New Yarfc). 



J 



THE BAKEKS BOOK. 



(".i 




<io4 



THE IIAKERS BUOK. 



WATER TEMPERINQ AND HEASURINQ APPARATUS. 

Several systems of waler teiiiporiiip and measuring or weighing 
apparatus or lanks have U-i-n introduced ilurinp the last few years, and 
liave proved to be a great advantage in the tno<lern bakery. 




M<a<iirinc :ind Tcm[>«rin|t Tiok. 



DOUOH KNEADERS AND AKIXERS. 

Perhaps the oklest record of a dough kncader is a tablet discovered 
on the tombstone of Senatore Eurysace, who was a prominent baker in 
ancient Rome. Plcnius tells us the old Romans employed slaves for 
kneading their dough. In the better families these slaves were compelled 
to wear gloves and protect their mouths with a cloth, as a saf^uard 
against any contact of their breath or perspiration with the dough. After 
the downfall of the Roman Empire we do not find any more traces in his- 
torical records of improvements in devices or implements for breadmak- 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 




FIf- iiv.—Dough Kneidini in Krcncta Biktrr (iBtb Ccalunr). 




Fig, a,;a-Bol»nil Miser (Improveil), 



THE BAKmtS BUOK. 



iaj 





V\m. u* —Hud lltor. (StMb hMr Kamprr). 



6o8 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



ing until toward the end of the eighteenth century, when some timid, 
cKimsy efforts were made to introduce labor-saving apparatus in the 
baker's shop. While other trades, like the tanners, printers, weavers, etc., 
showctl more proRress in improving their respective trades, the bakers 
labored along in their same old-fashioned way. Only during the last forty 
or fifty years a new spirit dawned in the baking industry, principally iti 




Fig. J3S.— Dough Wxer (Frcy Br 

Germany, To-day Germany has a greater variety of patented kneading 
and mixing machines, dough-cutting and dividing machines and bake 
ovens than all the other comilries combined. We reproduce a number 
of these machines whicli ilhistrate the evolution that took place in the 
baking industry of different countries. In the beginning of the eigh- 
teenth century a trough was used, into which long sticks or paddles were 
inserted crosswise and the men each taking the other end of one of these 
paddles, they walked around the trough, thereby stirring the dough. 




Fig, aar— Kneading Haduoe (Sntem SegiUe), 



iilE BAKERS ItOOK. 609 

(This system of mixing dough is still in use in Russia.) There is hardly 
any time or labor saved by the use of this apparatus, but it has the ad- 
vantage that the dough is not touched by the hands during mixing. 

The brake is also a very old implement of the bakeshop. It is used 
to this day for honey cakes, pretzels and noodle dough. The first mixers 
of any account for bread dough were made in France, by Salignac, 1760. 




Fi|. J18.— Italian Dough Mixtr (SyMem Saceo). 

A Parisian baker, Lambert, constructed a mixer in 1810, which is caUed 
the "Lambertine" and which received first prize in a contest as being the 
most practical mixer at that time. From that time on the strife for im- 
provements has kept up, and every few years a new mixer or kneader 
is introduced to the trade until the manufacture of bakers' machinery has 
become quite an important industry. The illustrated descriptions of large 
modem bread bakeries gives a good idea of the equipment of an up-to- 
date bakery. It may also be of interest here to give illustrations of bake- 
shops in retail bakeries. We reprint a paper prepared by one of New 



THE BAKb:KS UOUK. 




Fig. J.II).— French Kdcadcr (Mlirjr). 

York's oldest retail bakers, Mr. Ad. Schinkel, read before the conveation 
of the New York State Association of Master Bakers : 

"The use of machinery in the baking business is of long standing, 
but only in the larger establishments, which were generally called machine 
bakeries to distinguish thcni from the smaller concerns or retail bakeries. 
It has been generally understood that only a very large amount of busi- 
ness would warrant the profitable use of such machinery, it being believed 
that the retail baker had no use whatever for it. But the time has come, 
however, when he is forced by the sharp competition of these very ma- 
chine bakeries to hustle around to hold his own, and the questioa of nia- 




PiS- 130.— French Kneider (Hrqucltc). 



THE BAKEkS BOOK. 




Wf, tsi.— N'orwcfjw Mixer Ooba Sodolphtl. 




Fi«. .i»-DoBili Htnr <I, DaHili. PkU), 



jii 



6l2 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



chiticry is brought forward. And so I came to investigate this nuilcr 
in my own way, and I have come to the conclusion that the retail baker 
of to-day, who hopes to hold his own and' keep up to date, must use ma- 
chinerj-. I will try to give you my reasons. 

"First: What is the advantage of a dough-mixer and why should a 
retail baker have one when Iiis doughs are so small, say from one-half to 
one barrel of flour, that they can be easily mixed by hand ? 

"I'ersunally, I have great faitli in hand-made doughs, provided they 




arc properly worked. Inil llnrc is \W nib. 1 linil at tlio present time that 
it is ahuost iniiiossilile to i;it n liakcr \\-\v «il! iln <o, und the result is an 
imperfect dough, frmn which it \< iinii.-;-iIil,- i-> tiiake gcmd bread. 

"In the seconcl place, innchini-ry l.nki : ;t '^■■'•■<\ pan nf the hard labor 
in a bake shop away frnm il-o wiTkini^nan. nml is apt t" make him more 
steady. This is cipi-cially tnic 'hiring thv hot seasun, whoii li^ verj- 
often resolves th-it he has enriigh money to Iny off f..r .t few weeks and 
l«t somebody else have the fun. We all have our little CNiHrienccs that 
way. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 




■Knd 1>™kIi Mi»ef fSynt™ llaiTT)- 



" That, from a sanitary slamtiHiini. a niarhim- doiiKli is absolutely to 
be preferred for its cleanliness is not to be dispntid : flirt hcrmore, your 
machine is a cheap, steady workman. It costs very little to feed, it does 
not smoke or chew, and, as for the can, it only needs a small one filled 
with oil. It is always willing and never shirks tbe work, don't Ret tired 
and never noes on a strike; in fact, it is an ideal worker. Now. if you 
can secure sncb from coniparativtly little money, don't you think that 
it is to your Unefit to have it. especially if ynu are able with its aid to 
"Now, what other niachinery ou(;ht a retail baker to have? Certain- 
turn out belter goods, which is the only way to increase your business ? " 




Fir ijj.— DoDfh Uiur of H. Bcilrim (RcmoTible TrKugh), 



:.\KliK S BUCK. 





ly a dough-driver, which enables him to get his rolls exactly the size he 
wants them. There is no guesswork about this machine, as it does its 
work exact, consequently it is a nioney-saver. It pays for itself sooner 
or later, according to the amount of work. It is therefore the entering 




Fig. J38.— Wtrncr S Pfl<irkr« Mixer (in tilled |Ki^itinn wilh aut 



THK liAKKKS IKIOK. 



615 




t">t- '49' l>ou|rti Kntadct (Thompicm. Edinburihl. 



6i6 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



wedge for machinery in the retail bakery. It is already used in most 
bakeries of any consequence and its value is generally recognized. 

"The next machine on the list is an egg-beater, which is very useful 
and ought to be in every well-regulated bakeshop where there are eggs 
to be beaten in quantities from two dozen up. We all know that beating 
e^s is the hardest work in our business; consequently a good machine 




Fig. X4«.— Uurand Kneadtr (for powei 



is a labor-saver. It also does the rubbing of butter and sugar for pound 
and wine cakes, also light doughs for coffee loaves. In fact, it can be 
used in the cake department throughout. It has all the merits of the 
dough-mi.xer in the bread department and is consequently just as im- 
portant. 

"Now, this is about all the machinery which, in my estimation, a re- 
tail baker ought to have. I have recently installed a similar plant in my 
bakery, which is a small one, baking not more than three barrels a day. 




THE BAKERS BOOK. 



617 




Vit. 144'— Fooler BnM. Kscadcr k iUxct tBoIud StiHb). 



6i8 



THK ItAKERS BOOK. 



and I am highly pleased with the results. My only r^;ret is that I failed 
to do so years ago. * 

"Now, what is the objection generally prevailing among the retail 
bakers against the use of machinery? First; The want of space. This 
can be overcome in most cases, and if there is a will a comer can be 
cleaned in the shop where waste boxes and other things often accumulate 




-It Molor Attachnl). 



to the detriment of cleaiitincR.s and order. The actual floor space required 
;by the two machines is no more than 4x lo feet. Secondly, the cost of 
the machinery has been a main objettion against ilS adoption. I am in 
position togive you the exact expense in this coanection. I have a one- 
barrel dough-mixer, $125; one egg-beater. $65; electric motor, $75; 
dough-divider, $90; belting, shafting, wiring and all other expenses con- 



THE BAK£R S BOOK. 



619 




fif. uS.— Tbe 'Tany" MLccr ud CteaaMr. 




F'«. »47 — Th« Cotbr Ntw ProoHi Htict. 



620 THE baker's BOOK. 

nected with it, S75 — makine a total of $430. As to the cost of power, 
am not able to ^ive you the exact fifnires. As near as I can calculate, 
however, it is about $1 per week, and with a gas engine it is even leas. 
Now, take tbc interest on $430, which, at the rate of five per cent., will 
make a total of alxiiit ?2i per year, the co,st of power is $50. Add to this 
for possible repairs about &>, to make an even figure, and you have a total 
cost of $80 a year, or $6.75 per month. Can you hire any kind of a boy 




Fig. 14S-— Universal Kneider (Werner ft Pfldderer). 

fwr this amount? ("ertainly not. an<l if you could get him, what could 
he do? A careful consideration of these facts, therefore, will, I think, 
demonstrate that >oii could not make a better investment in your busi- 
ness." 

The American manufacturers of bakers' machinery have made many 
improvements on clough-kneaclers and mixers and not only claim to make 
machines as good and as practical as those made in European countries, 
but it is claimed that our mixers are more practical and not so heavy and 
clumsy in construction and not so expensive. The demand for modern 



THE baker's book. 621 

machinery is growing cotiimually and nearly all the manufacturers are 
kept busy to their full capacity. 

Dough Dividers mtd Cullers for rolls and buns have been on the 
market for some years. A Vienna master baker, by name of Hailfinger, 
is credited with having invented the first machine of this kind. In Ger- 
many the firms of Herman Bertram, J. Herbst & Co., and Bruning were 
first to offer dough-dividing machines. In this country among the most 




popular dividers are the "Van Houten," manufactured by the Dutchess 
Tocrf Co. (Fishkill) and the "Bertram." manufactured by \Vm. Zoeller 
(Chicago). The usual size has a capacity of nine pounds of dough which 
is cut into thirty or thirty-six parts. Although we have a number of 
such machines for small breadstuff, the trade has been waiting anxiously 
for an accurate, practical weighing or dividing apparatus, for larger 
pieces of dough Irom one pound up. There is only one such machine on 



622 



THi: BAKERS BOOK. 



the market at present, patented by Lewis & Ptuntcm, sold by Werner & 
Pfleiderer. and which has been in use in a number of large bakeries in 
Europe for some time and is now being introduced in America. The 
writer has seen several other models of new inventions in this line by 
American invtntors. One of them, an automatic dough weighing or 
scaling machine, is near complete and will be placed on the 




Fig. 350. — Mixer uid Ga> EhiItw (ihai 



Burintr and tlwftliiE). 



market in the near future by the inventor, Mr. Geo. J. Hicks. 
New York. This machine is designated on the principle of weigh- 
ing or scaling the dough, not only dividing it, by the aid of a pair of 
scales in front of the machine, which receives the dough coming out erf 
the mouthpiece. It is claimed to weigh pieces of dough accurately from 
four ounces to two and a half pounds. Mr. Fowler, of Fowler Bros., 
Brooklyn, tas also been at work on a similar machine for some time and 



THE BAKERS IKIUK. 




Fi». ay 



the model, shown the writer some time ago, worked admiringly well, and 
after the changing of a few minor details, the machine appears to do the 
work satisfactorily for which it is intended. 

There is slill another bread scaling machine lately introduced in Eng- 
land which is heralded as doinn ;ircat work and not being so expensive. 
Negotiations for its introduction to the American trade are now being 
carried on. 





VU. Ml.-""'"' ""■ 




Fit, *57.— Provinf ClOMt. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



<^i 




Baskets and Shif-ping Cases. — The shipping of bread has made won- 
derful progress during Ihe last ten years and some of our larger bakeries 
have built up an enormous bread trade in surrounding towns and the 
shipping of bread by express has become a distinct feature in a number 




of bread factories. Of course, Ihe selection of the most suitable package, 
box or basket is quite important and besides the original cost, the dura- 
bility and weight of such must be considered. 




THE BAKERS BOOK, 




Fig. 36t, — Cetoian Dread CaM 



DOUQH MOULDINO MACHINES. 

Several bread niouldinfj machines have been brought before the trade 
by American manufacturers. The "Hryce" Moulding Machine, The 




,',m l|..in«i" Ilcrnnh Hi 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



"Corby" Moulder have been more or less advertised ; Westerman, of Chi- 
cago, also manufactures a moulder, but the "Thomson" Bread Mouldinp 
Machine has become the most popular machine of its kind during the last 
two years. It has a capacity of moulding 2,000 loaves per hour and 




■ (Showing 1 



moulds the loaves unifonn. This machine is made in different sizes to 
mould loaves of any desired size. 

Bread Racks. — Many time and labor-saving devices have been intro- 
duced to convey the bread before and after baking to and from proving 
room and oven until it is finally placed in the basket, shipping cases or 
wagons or on the shelves in the retail department. 



THF. IIAKERS BOOK. 629 

RELATIVE C05T OP QAS AND STEATl ENQINES AND nOTORS. 

The relative cost and advantages of gas and steam engines has be- 
come an important question with bakers, and of late electric motors have 
also become very popular and their original cost and maintenance have 
to be considered, when deciding on the selection of the most economical 




and iiicsl suitable power for a modern bakiTv, There are advantages 
and disadvantaj;es in each type of machine — and as each has its legitimate 
fitld, ncitluT will encroach on the work of the other. It is a matter of 
Ki'iitral consent, however, that considered solely as a machine for con- 
viTiiiig the total energy of the fuel into mechanical vwork, the gas engine 
is the more efficient ; while in the steam engine all the exhaust steam can 



03O 



iiAiCCR S 1KM;K. 



be turned to good account for heating bakeshops, proving rooms, and 
heating water for all purposes, also furnishing steam for Vienna ovens. 
We here quote from an article in the Engineers 

"There are gas engines in operation which transform over twenty- 
five per cent, of the heat in the fuel into useful work, while in the very 
l)est recorded performance of the steam engine barely fourteen per ccnt- 
of the energj- in the coal h'umed has been thus accounted for, and in the 




i']g. .-uv— Uri'id l).>u!i'.i |)i dcr (Leuis & Poinlon). 

average steam engine plant, not to exceed five per cent. There arc many 
small plants consisting of common slide-valve engines, with uneconomical 
types of boilers, in which less tlian two per cent, of the energy in the coal 
burned is converted into mechanical work. At the same time it must 
be remembered that a given number of heat units in the form of fuel suit- 
able for use in a gas engine costs more than an equal number in the shape 
of coal or other ordinary fuel suitable for burning in a common boiler 
furnace. 



THE UAKLKS ItUUK. 



<>3" 



"In a general way it may be assumed, that in a plant operating con- 
linuously, the item of fuel will be somewhat greater for the gas engine 
than for an improved pattern of modem steam engine, except possibly in 
llie case of an engine running on producer gas. Where the service is of 
an intermittent nature, or the power is required only for a comparatively 
- short time each day, this difference in favor of the steam engine becomes 




less, an<I may even become a balance in favor of the gas engine, for the 
reason that in the gas engine plant there are no "stand-by losses," that is, 
radiation and leakage when standing idle under full steam pressure, and 
cnal bunied in banking fires and raising steam. 

"With the pas engine the fuel expenses starts and stops with the 
engine. Hut the fuel cost is only one item in the cost of producing power, 
One must consider the value of the additional space, and buildings re- 



632 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



quired for a boiler plant ; the cost of a stack ; labor of handling coal and 
ashes; cost of attendance, oil and water; depreciation, repairs and in- 
surance of a boiler plant. The gas engine has a field of its own which 
cannot be occupied by the steam engine, and there is no immediate pros- 
pect of the gas engine seriously encroaching on the legitimate field of the 
steam engine. 

>;c.B 




"In this connection reference may properly be made to the increase 
of the size of gas engines. A recent contract is for twelve gas engines, 
aggregating 3,000 horse power. Nine of the engines will be 300 horse 
power each, one of 125, one of 50, and one of lO. Gas engines of 650 
horse power are being built. One of this size will be placed in a steel 
plant and one in the power house of an electric company. Ten years 
ago 650 horse power was considered large for a steam engine." 



THE baker's book. 633 

Of course the choice of power depends upon local conditions. After 
that point is settled care must be taken to see that the power is properly 
mission depends upon the distance of the machines to be driven from 
the engine room, the length of time they are to run, and upon the cost 
of developing the power in the engine room. Of these, perhaps the most 
important is the distance of the machines to be driven from the engine 
applied and that it is not needlessly wasted by being sent over long line 
shafting and a nunilwr of belts and pulleys before arriving at the machine 
it is intended to drive. 

We quote here from a paper read before the last National Conven- 
tion by Mr. Chas. A. Ward, of Pittsburg, on "The Ix'st use of power." 

"Power may be transmitted from the engine to the various m&chines 
throughout the bakery in two ways : First, by a system of belts and 
shafting, and second, by electricity. The choice of either system of trans- 




room. In large buildings where line shafting is used to transmit power 
to machines which are at a distance from the engine room, much of the 
power may be lost in transmission. There have been cases in which $0 
per cent, of the power developed by the engine has been lost in the line 
shafting and iK-lting. If such a plant is in a locality where fuel is very 
cheap, such a loss might not be a serious one, but in the cities where 
fuel is sometimes high, we will do well to look into the matter to see if a 
cheaper method cannot be found. The only solution for a case like the 
one above is the use of electricity for transmitting power. In this case, 
there is in the engine room an electric generator connected ap to the en- 



634 'i^'K bakkr's book. 

gine. This generates an electric current which is sent over copper wires 
to the electric motors installed in the various departments throughout th6 
factory. It is not generally necessary to have an electric motor for each 
machine in any one department, as one motor can be made to serve sev- 
eral machines in each department. The determination of this point 
should be left to a consulting engineer. 

"Let us take, for example, a shop which has a system of shafting 
and belts, and in one part of the shop there is a dough mixer which re- 
quires 20 horse-power to drive it. Suppose that our power costs us $30 
per horse-power per year. Now if we lose 30 per cent, of the power in 
the line shafting, for every horse-power we send to the mixer over the 
line shafting, only 70 per cent of it reaches its destination, consequently 
we must send 1.43 horse-power from the engine room so that we can 
have one horse-power at the mixer. Since our mixer requires 20 horse- 
power, we must send out from the engine room 20 times 1.43 horse-power, 
or 28.6 horse-power. Thus we are paying for 8.6 horse-power, which 

is wasted in the line shafting. This at $30 per horse-power per year 

would cost us $258 per year. If now we buy an electric motor and a 

generator, the cost of both might be, say, $650. With this system we 

might lose about 15 per cent, in the generator, motor and line. At this 

rate we would lose about 3.5 horse-power, costing us $105 per year. If 

we count 12 per cent, for interest on investment, depreciation and repairs, 

the cost per year on the motor and generator would be 12 per cent, of 

$650, or $78. This, added to the $105 which we pay for the lost power 

when transmitting electrically, brings the cost per year up to $183. This 

against $258 per year for lost power when line shafting is used, shows 

a saving of $75 per year. In nine years the saving would be enough to 

pay for the machinery installed. After that time the $75 would be clear 
profit, as the 12 per cent., taken above, includes the price of replacing 

both machines when worn out. This is only one case in a hundred that 

might be taken to show what things must be considered when the choice 

of a system of power transmission is sought. The problems we have 

considered have of necessity been simple so that you might be able to 

follow the reader. I \\x>uld have you remember that in an actual case 

which might come up for consideration, more elements would enter the 

problems than those we have considered; but the principle remains the 

same, and if you become thoroughly grounded in the principle, you arc 

already well on the way to understand the more complex problems which 

you may have to solve if you truly seek to reduce the price you pay for 

power.*' 



THE BAKEH S BUUK. 



635 



Bake Ovens. 

ANCIENT PORTABLE OVEN. 

The accompanying enpravinK roprcstnts a style of portable oven said 
c among both Jews and Kj^ypiians at an early day. It 
is from an old Kfjyptlan drawing. ProKs- 
sional bakers did their work in fixed, special- 
ly constructed ovens, rortalile ovens were 
usually found in private houses. These were 
in the shape of stone or metal jars about 
three feel in height, and were heate<l from 
the interior with wood, dried grass or flour 
stalks. When the first had hurncd down, 
the cakes were placed on the ashes or the 
exterior sides of the oven. Or a hole dug 
. in the ground formed the oven; the sides 
bsing covered with clay and the Ix'ttom with pebbles. Sometimes the 
cakes were cooked on heated stones or hy the more, primitive method o£ 
laying them directly on burning logs. The dough was also placed between 
two layers of dried fuel which were then lighted. ( Hhers baked it in a 
pan with oil and ate it whilst hot with honey. Or cooked it in such thin 
layers that it crumbled in the fingers. 

It can be further taken for granted from scriptural sketches, that 
the ohl Hebrews had regular bakers' ovens of very large dimensions. In 
I'ompeii several whole bakeshops have been unearthed and arrangements 
for baking appear to have also fonne<l a part of every large family eslah- 
lishnient. (See \'ol. I.) One historian tells us of a very large bake oven 
hi the cloister of St. Galle (tenth cmtury) which would hold i.ooo loaves 
at a time. 




OLD TirtE VIlXAOe OVEN. 

In the following article we picture an old time public oven erected in 
the village of Seriere, in llugey, France, in the fourteenth century. It is 



036 THE BAKEk's book. 

claimed in the sketch, translated ori^iially for the Brilisk Baker and Con- 
fectioner, that this old village oven is still used by the humble French vil- 
lage folk : 

"This public oven has the appearance of one of those old chapels so 
common in Provence, and which have been inhabited by solitary monks. 
It is built of rough stone, very equal in size, as is still the custom in this 
district. There is no chimney, the smoke escaping by a break in the wall 
of the oven. The north side is covered with ivy, which rises to the roof, 
and gives a picturesque appearance to the whole building. The door, the 
spout, the irregular openings are all original, 

"The interior is also singular. One finds in the way of movables a 




slinvcl for the oven and a wooden board with round holes, on which people 
can wriic down when their turn of the oven is due. The door of the oven 
is of sheet iron, but this is of modem date, as it was formerly of stone. To 
the right of that door there is a sort of niche, which formerly would con- 
tain the figure of a saint, A tablet of stone before the oven serves to place 
tile bread on ; two side tablets built into the wall serve a similar purpose. 
This is all the furniture of a public oven which has seen nearly 600 years 
of existence. In this and similar villages bakers' wares are not of the most 
brilliant description. It is principally the peasants, however, who use the 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



637 



public oven. The middle classes prefer bakers' bread in place o( these 
rude round loaves, weighing; from thirteen to fourteen pounds, but which 
are nevertheless very healthful and nourishing. Formerly the baker joined 
to his trade that of flour merchant, which gave him also the custom of 
those who preferred to bake their own bread. 

"Ilugey was formerly a lordship of the ancient Burpoyne. At the 
time of the Roman conquest it was inhabited by the Segusiens. Numer- 
ous traces of that epoch remain, notably the lake of Seriere, which was 
formerly the bed of the Rhone. As in Provence, many ancient customs 
arc preserved, among them the public oven, which we owe to the feudal 
times. One knows that at that epoch the nobility had the right to seize 
on the public road and confiscate to themselves any bread not baked at 




the public oven ami all flour not ground at the common mill. In all the 
lordships of the Gallo-Frcnch Empire, as in Bugey, the courts had the 
right of banality, viz., to publish in the lordship decrees concerning the 
public ovens and mills. The nobles and ecclesiastics were exempt from this 
nile for the bread for their own tables, because of the risk that the bread 
might become sour in carrying it from the public oz-en! On the night of 
^ih of August. 1780. the right of a lord of the manor to oblige his vassals 
to use his oven disapi>eared. Since then the public o*'cn of Seriere ha3 
become a communal oven in the condition that we have described." 

.■Ml the old-time ovens were fired with wood, and they were built 
nearly 00 the same principle as the ovens found in many smaller bakeries 
of to-day, especially in country districts. The ovens are well filled with 



638 THE baker's book. 

dry wood and then fired. When all burned out, the a*shes are removeJ 
and the oven swapped out. This process is practically the same as used 
by the P>ench bakers to this day, even in some of the largest bakeries. 

* ( )vens with direct fire, the gyrate being placed in one comer in the 
baking chamber, were next introduced. Then followed the patent "Con- 
tinuous Bakers" with the fireplace underneath the ovens. Drawplatc, 
reel and rotary ovens are the latest achievements in modern oven con- 
struction. In luirope another style, called the traveling oven, the plates 
traveling on chains, is used in cracker bakeries. The fundamental prin- 
ciples of a g(X)d bake oven are an airtight baking chamber which can 
be heated evenly in every part, and an arrangement of flues as dampers, 
by which the heat can be controlled and regulated. 

In the older style ovens with "direct heat," where the furnace is placed 
inside of the oven chamber near the door, and the flue further back on 
the opposite side, the heated gases from the furnace first strike backward 
through the baking chamber and then return to the flue on the opposite 
side. r>ef()re baking is commenced, the dampers and doors are closed 
to give the heat a chance to ecjualize and reach every part of the bakinq^ 
chamber. After one or two batches are baked, the fire must be re- 
freshed and the dampers pulled, to replace the heat lost in previous bak- 
ings. 



PORTABLE OVENS. 



The name "portable" oven is generally applied to any oven, which 
can be removed from one place to another. The simplest as well as the 
cheapest "portable" ovens are sheet iron boxes, fitted with a small fur- 
nace and shelves above. l>ut in this direction also great improvements 
have been made. We have now so-called "Sectional" Ovens, or *'Sec- 
tional Portable" Ovens, whi-ch are practically removable brick ovenr;,. 
such as the McDowell, the Middleby, the **Qad" Oven, the "German- 
American,'* etc. These are built in the style of a brick oven with one 
baking surface, where room is very limited, an upright oven with more 
than one baking chamber, one on top of the other; and in the best of 
them the baking chambers are laid with tile, same as used in a brick oven* 
The Roberts and the Hubbard Portable Ovens built on this style are 
very popular, and are made in different sizes and styles. Some of the 
portable ovens have a boiler attached so as to get steam into the oven^ 
if wanted. 

♦See page 5/4. 



THE baker's book. 639 

A PORTABLE BAKERY. 

An exceedingly compact antl efficient portable baking eslablishment 
has been recently patented in this country by E. M, Sjoholni. of Stock- 
.''."' holm, Sweden, It is designed particularlj 

j0r ^J;J to meet the demands of an army on the 

' ' '■■f^'^-^-^^^~-~ march. A small box under the wagon con- 
tains tile fire, but the special feature of this 
device is the arrangement of flue tubes 
throughout the oven so that every unit of 
heat is made to do the greatest possible 
amount of work. The tubes run borbon- 
tally the It-ngth of iJie oven, forming several 
floors or chamber divisions and the heat of 
ng. i;6. rouiik- Hikery. (j,(. (j^^. jj niadc to pass back and forth 

through this great length of tubing before it is allowed to escape. There- 
fore every part of this oven is heated to the same intensity, and great 
economy of space is secured. 




CONTINUOUS BAKER5. 

The greatest advantage of the so-called "cnniiniHius lakers'" is, that 
steady heat can be kept up continually, tlie furnace being umlemcatli 




fig. m— Mntlcu 0< 



i 




640 THE uakeb's hook. 

the baking cliamber. ISatcli after batch can be baked in quick ! 
sion. By a proper manipulation of the dampers and checking tbi 
draught, loss of energy or waste of heat and fuel is prevented, and 1 
great deal of fuel can be saved. 

There arc a number of "continuous" patent bake ovens on the va»- 
ket, such as the "Duhrkop," "Bailey," "Petersen," "Schubert," etc- The/ 
are designed primarily for bread baking, anif for "hearth bread" 
have sloping soles and steam attachment, which is turned into the < 
chamber for "Vienna," rye bread, etc. 

Steam ovens are provided commonly with radiant heat from iron p 
containing steam, heated under pressure to a high decree. Tlic 1 




J 78. —A 11: 



each of which is ci>ni|ilete in itself, are hermetically sealed, but before 
btin ; sealed a small (|uaniity of water is enclosed in each. Each pipe 
is tested to withstand a very hi^h pressure. The sealed pipes are ar- 
rangiil in parallel rows akjng the to]) anil bottom of the oven, under the 
bottom liks in the latitr part, and under the roof and actually in the 
interior of the oven in the fonner part. The pipes are arranged so as 
to be in contact at the back ends with the furnace which is placed at the 
hack. As the pipes become heated, the water in the interior is resolved 
into steam, which being confined, anil tiierefore under great pressure, 
can be raised easily to a temperature sufficient for baking purposes, 
(hens of (his class are snmelimis m;iiie with a drawplate sole. 




DRAWPLATE OVENS. 

The principle of the drawplate, which also accounts for the name, 
lies in the arrangement of the baking plaies Wing removable. The slow 
process of loadin):; the ovens with the peel has led to the idea of build- 
ing an oven with sliding plate which can he withdrawn from the oven 
chamber, loaded quickly, and, running imchanicalty on wheels, be pushed 
back into the oven. 





Fig. .;8,.-«>,l«:tli' T»<. I).rol 




One of till' oltjcciiuiis v> drawplatc ovtns, the extra space required 
wlii'ii plalis arc \vitlnlra\vn from tlic oven, has been overcome with the 
consiriictioii of the doiitilc dicki-rs. The two plates, practically take 
only tilt spacf of a sinf;k' deckiT. and the additional cost is compar- 
ativtlv verv small. 




THE IIAKKRS IKtflK 




Tlll£ UAKER S BCXJK 



COnBINATION OVEN. 



The "Combination" oven consists of a drawplate, about i ft. 6 in. 
above the bakeshop Hoor and a peel oven over the drawplate about 
3ft, 4 in. above the floor. 

The' "Combination" oven is of special advantage where the space 
in a bakeshop is limited ; its capacity is just about twice as much as 
that of one ordinary oven, and it occupies no more space than one oven 
would. It is an ideal oven for bakeries where space is limited. 




By means of the dampers it is possible to work either of the two 
oven chambers t|uite independent of each other, and to maintain differ- 
ent degrees of temperature. 

The drawplate may be used for "pan" bread, cakes, pastry or pies, 
and the peel for \'ienna, French bread or rolls, according to require- 
ments. The peel oven is built either with a "sloping" or "flat" sole. 

Drawplate ovens can be foimd in nearly every large bakery in Eu- 
rope. There are several distinct systems and they have become very 



THE BAKEKS BOOK. 



645 



popular lately in America as weil. The Wemer & Pfleiderer (Iraweplats 
ovfn is heated by steam pipes. In the Jos. Baker & Sons drawplate oven 
thf heatinn system consists of hot air chambers with dampers and flues 
for admitting heat direct into the oven chamber whenever required. 
Coke is used principally as fuel an<I the economy on this point is remark- 
able. 




FUEL FOR BAKE OVENS. 

Opinions about the most economical fuel for bakers' ovens diffei 
and liKal prices of, material have to Ik- considered in the selection of the 
fuel. This point was discussed at one of the National IJakers' Conven- 
tions and it will Ik- of interest to reprint the opinions of some of the 
leading bakers. 

The President — The i>oint we want to (jet at is, "What ovens are 
wanted by the baker?" Wc all have ovens; and there are a great many 
di7erent ovens an<l a great many different notions about what is neede<l. 
Wc want to pet what is desired, that will give the people that build ovens 



THE BAKERS BUUK. 




(Bailey Oven Co., PhiUdelpbia). 




THE BAKER'S BUCK. 



647 




soiiictliing tn iiiipruvf im. In criiinectioii with stoain. in a great many 
casi'S von hoar of the steam rnniiinjj into ihc ovt-ii al high prcssiirt-. That 
drives the ht-at out. cooN off yiuir ovens, and the steam you put in t<) 
moisten your lieat is bluwn out of the iloor. It ycm put on a gaufje to 
reduce the steam down and only allow a small pressure in there, you 
j;et better results. 

Mr. l'i<lliii.< — My cNperience is that atiout fifteen ]»junds pressuse 
is suttieient. 





Kig J?;.— Rotiry Oven {A, J. Fish & Co., Chicaso). 

Afr. ll'agncr — The first oven we built was about eighteen years ago, 
and it gave very good satisfaction; but I found that the oven baked 
more at the back and on the sides than it did in the front ; and then the 
flues were too close together atid gave too much trouble in cleaning 
them, and I found that a larRf expansion of arch was a nuisance. Two 




& SloeVwell. Cambridsipof.). 



6so 



THE ItAKER S 1HX)K. 



years ago we made over our plant and we have thrown down five ovens 
and put in (our more, divided our arches into three parts by the use of 
steel beams, and our second arches were made 8 inches instead of four. 
We found ihat in repairing the furnaces we had very great difficuHv 
at the top, atul I went and got the Jersey arch tile made to order. I 
find that they work more easily; so now. in.stead of having to work the 
bread around, they do not need to change at all ; the men just keep on 




B>kin( Cd., in Philiddiihia. 



sliuving in ;uid shoving out, and they can bake without stopping. I find 
it is not necessary iiiat you should have a low oven for \'ienna bread. 
I put up one fourtem inches and another oven sixteen inches, and ! found 
the sixteen inch oven works just as well on Vienna bread as the twelve 
inch. 1 think the tnure steam you get into your oven for Vienna bread 
the better it is. 

Mr. lUhllicr — We have a shaking gr.ite, and we have never replaced 
it with a new grati' bar. The grate bars will last from three to five 



T1I£ UAKERS BUOK. 



65' 



years without replacing, while the stationary grate will wear out in six 
months. It is a very simple thing, and there is no patent on it. At first 
there was a patent and we asked permission to use it an<l the patentee 
wrote liack saying he was not making any more, and we coidd use the 
l>ateiit. We are using gas house coke ; we were fonnerly using anthra- 




IluMt by }m. It^ik. 



cite coal. Shaking grates ]irivfiil tlie tnrmatiim of cinders. We have 
water running in luir fnniacts; that .^aves tlu- fuel and saves the grate 
liars and the evaporation of the water will assist you greatly. We have 
one man who diH's all the tiring. 

Mr. R. li. Ward — We people in Pittsburgh are a little more for- 
tunate than most of you ; we have natural gas that costs ahout ten cents 
per thousand feet. We have four ovens, and we use ahout five hnndre! 
thousand feet of gas per month. That figures put about Sio or $12 p;T 
nwnili [>cr oven, or about ten to twelve cents per day, anil if yon carry 



Oj-i 



TIIK ItAKl-.KS 1»HIK. 




i" Society, Vicnui). 



1111-: BAKKK S BlXiK. 




THE BAKKKS BOOK. 




THE BAKERS BOOK. 



655 




6$6 THE baker's book, 

out the calculation it will figure out about two and a half cents per thou- 
sand loaves ; and if you want to go farther you can find how much it will 
cost to bake bread per loaf on that basis. 

Mr. Morton — For the information of some gentlemen that are in 
<^! bearing districts I may say that we used crude oil for some seven 
years, up to the past winter, with fine results. We were compelled to 




in London KiplMition. 



give Up its use not because we didn't approve of it, but a kind of trust, 
having got hold of the business, raised the price from thirty cents a bar- 
rel to something over one dollar, and they changed from giving us oil 
imtil we got refuse, and we had to commence and use coke. In -the seven 
years we used crude oil for our ovens there has never been one cent for 
repairs in any shape or form, no charge for grate bars or new bricks. 
We regret that we have had to give up the use of crude oil ; one result is 
that we have had a much hotter shop than we ever had before. 

Mr. Boeltler — The reason we use coke is because it is more econom- 



THE BAKEKS BOOK. 



657 



ical, and the men do not waste it. If you would use coal properly, coal 
would be the most economical ; but from the fact that the men keep 
firing in and v.csting the heat we adopted coke, and we found that we 
had a more uniform heat. 

Atr. Morton — That is our idea in rcfjard to coke. We did make z 
change one lime Troni oil, tlioiiHit it war costini^ us too much, and we 




attempted the use of hard coal, but our men were not experienced in the 
use of har<l coal and the tendency was to make too heavy a fire; that 
tendency is not only anionR bakers but oil tenders. When they get the 
proper theory of firing with coal, that is a thin fire and fire often, they 
do all right. 

Mr. Collins — I Iiavc ocen going through that experiment the last six 
months on anthracite coa: and g^s house coke, ant! ■ found that v.-ith 



()58 THE baker's book. 

coal the men would fire tcx) hcavv and would smother the fire and bum 
(nit the ^raic bars, and it was costing us for ovens about sixty cents a 
<lay. W'c used our ovens about eiji^^hteen hours. Since we have been using 
jjas house coke, the consumption is about fifty bushels a w-eek, and it is 
cutting our fuel expenses down alxmt one-third. 

Mr, I-rrihofcr — We have been using gas house coke even since we 
have been in business. W'e have to i)ay seven cents a bushel for coke. 
Ai our branch st<irc I tried an. experiment with coal, and I found it most 
economical, and we arc* going to put the coke out altogether and use coal. 

\h\ McKinncv — I have not heard one sav what it costs a dav to run 
an oven on coko. We run ovens on soft coal. We buy the highest 
priced soft coal we can buy. It costs us ten cents a bushel, and our ovens 
cost us twenty-five cents for full twenty-four hours. We have mostly 
Duhrk(^p ovens, and we fire them once every twelve hours; we found 
coke much more exj)ensive than soft coal. 

Mr. C(tllins — Tt costs us fifty cents a day for eighteen hours. 

Mr. Boc tiler — We ])ay S5 a ton for our coke. I think it costs about 
$JO per month per oven. Our fires are burning all the time; we never 
let the fires go out. 1 am satisfied it could be reduced twenty per cent. 
if it were han<lle(l with judgment: hut it is impc^^^sible to get laborers to 
use brains, they simi)ly <!(> what they are told. The ideal fuel is gas; by 
that means vou can reL^ilate vour llame. 

Mr. U'Jiitcsiiic — 1 think the whole thing resolves itself to the price 
of the fuel. A ton of coke will i)r()(luce the same heat as a ton of sofc 
coal. We have iriVi^ ovens with coke, and it costs me about fifty dollars 
a month: it costs me hw cents a barrel tt> use coke, and eight cents a 
barrel to use coal. 

Mr. U'a^^ncr — 1 find a good many bakers make a mistake when they 
first start a fire with coke. They should pull the damper very wide open 
and after the fire is burning close the damper just enough to let the gas 
out so that no heat can escape through the chimney. It costs us $70 
a month for five ovens, winter and summer, all through; that is about 
$14 an oven; and that is just by keeping the heat in the oven instead 
of heating the air. 

Mr. Bocttlcr — There is a little thing we got onto; I do not know 
exactly how it came, but in constructing the ovens in our bakery we 
thought the steam appliances we had leaked, because we could not get the 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



659 



proper steam in the oven. I do not remember who it was, but some 
one suggested to put a pipe of live steam in the rear of the ovcii, with 
little holes in it, and reduce the pressure from the boiler. We put it in 




Rf. joj.~E»hi 



(Smttiart). 



the rear end crosswavs in the oven, and from it let the steam into the 
oven, and it was wonderful what a difference it made. It pives a moist 
heat all through the oven, while if you have it from the side or near the 
front it comes right out. 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 







L. 




bl 

-J 

m 

< 


1 ^ 


f D 


1 "^ 









01 i 10 " 



St 



it 

mi 



n I 



atoH 3 

muHngi i i I Miimnai 



HOIS Al 



Kig. )04,-Pl.n of C H. 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 



66l 




« 



^^^^ 



O 



c 
H 

u 

V 



X 

ii 
% 



o 
o 



e 

9 

O 
i« 

O 



a 



e 

c« 



n 

E 

«) 

•o 

o 

I 

Ml 

o 
to 



662 



THE BAKER S BOOK. 




t^:;^k^\^\\V^ 




r 



* 

II 

it 

N. 

ll 

H 

a 
II 

M 

11 

II 

H 
ll 

u 
li 
II 

N 

H 
II 
II 
N 
II 
N 
II 

|i 
M 



». 



& 



r- 




rS 




|l 






^ 



i 



-. 4V--J- 





■L.-\>\ \ \ v^\\ \ %\s 



CSSS^CSSSSSSZCSLSSSSEXCSaSSISCSS!^ 



LS5!333rP- - 



i 



•I 

t; 



i 



U\\\ ^ 




ri I fc M 



•J ■. 



:: :::as 





ES323S&~. -.-.-.c Bjp : : ; : uss2 



^^^ ^^ ^ 



Y>^^^^^>^^^ ^^^ 



-« 



i ' ' 
I I I 



5^ 



J^ 



' ' I I 
• I . • 



I 



fetvvt -u 



s 

! 

I! 



S 
S 

S 
N 
S 
S 






Vf\ 



^ 



^ 



I 



s 



k^^^^\v^-^^^^^^^^^--^^K^^^ 



u 
o 

c« 

> 



o 



^ I 



c 

n 



•T3 

C 



X/1 



o 
o 



c 
o 






o 



e 

V 

•3 

n 

E 

us 

I 



\ 



THE BAKERS BOOK, 



663 




clc/j..i|-t a.-i 




Fit 3or. — Plia of Modern Bakcir (Gcnnu;). 



664 



THE BAKER'S BOOK. 




THE BAKER S BOOK. 



«s 




66o 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 




rig. 304. — Plan of C. H. Paul's Bakery, London, Kngland. 



THt: BAKEKS BOOK. 



659 



proper steam in the oven. I do not remember who it was, but some 
one supgestofi to put a pipe of live steam in the rear of the oven, with 
little holes in it, and reduce the pressure from the boiler. We put it in 




Elakcry (Stuii(in). 



the rear end crosswavs in the oven, anil from it let the Steam into (he 
oven, and it was wonderful what a difference it made. It gives a moist 
heat all through the oven, while if you have it from tlie side or near the 
front it conies right out. 



66o 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



(0 

X 

A. 







czn 




^^W 



O 
O 



® 






n 



lin^MVtfO liVlrfMVMO lin^MVIItf 





u 



Ul O 

> QC 

li < 

Ul >- 

o 






310H IMOIS 

I I I HiMnnai 



d/' \ 



F'iST- 304. — Plan of C. H. Paul's Bakery. London, England. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 




THE BAKER S BOOK. 



66l 




9 

O 

%m 

H 



c 



K 



X 

M 
it 

M 

n 



a 

9 

O 



a 

(« 

E 
C 



c 



m 
E 
1 



e 



Obi 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 




u 
O 

> 






O 
C/2 



s 
o 



c 

n 

c 



C/2 



o 
o 

•a 

c 
o 
u 



s 

g 

O 



e 

t-l 
O 

•a 



I 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 



663 




cchyui't a - i 



-y m^ "n r f_ w nwif r m w fft//rftf r-rr'^w'**ff'*' * ' " * ■•••mm .-^t^i^aM 




Fig. 307.— Plan of Modern Bakery (Gcnnanj), 



THE BAKERS BOOK. 




THE BAKER S BOOK. 



66s 




THE BAKEJtS BOOK. 




THE BAKES'S BOOK. 




INDEX 



BAKING IN DIFFERENT 

TRIES. 

America 

Austria 

Balkan States 

Belgium 

Bohemia 

England (see Volume I.). 

Germany (see Volume I.)- 

Holland 

Hungary 

Italy 

Norway 

Russia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tropical Countries 

Cuba, New Zealand, Aus- 
tralia. South Africa, Ber- 
mu<la, Zuni Indians. 

Turkey 

Exhibition Bakeries 

London. Stuttgart, Boston, 
New York. 

Flour 

Bakers' Flour 

Bakers Use Best Flour 

Bakers as Blenders 

Blending Flour for Flavor.. 

Common Flour 

Corn Flour 

Effect of Fumes on Flour... 

Flavor of Bread... 

Flour with Special Names... 
Food Value of Rye and 

Wheat Flour Mixtures 

Gluten Flour 

Grades of Flour 

Hazelnut Flour 

High Grade Patent Flour... 
Machines to Test Nutritive 

Value of Flour 



VOLUME II 

COUN- Miscellaneous Flours 435-4j6 

Number of Loaves from Bar- 

350-399 rcl of Flour 367 

330-338 Old and New Flour for 

544-552 Bread 458-459 

519-521 Patent vs. Straight Flour... 455-456 
515-524 Preference of Brands by 

Bakers 43^ 

Properties Affecting Value 

515-524 of Flour 432 

344-345 Rye FJo"«" 444-445 

524-528 Rope in Bread 460-475 

532-537 Storage of Flour 45^-458 

539-544 Testing Flour 450-45^ 

528-532 What is Gluten? 436-438^ 

532-537 Grain and Wheat 420-429 

537-539 Barley 4^ 

553-564 Bread Trees 429 

Corn 427 

Manna 429 

Mummy Wheat 427 

544-552 Rye 426 

652-667 Wheat 420-425 

FORMULAS FOR BREAD AND 

CAKES. 

430-459 Aero Bread 369 

434-435 Anis Pretzels 340 

452-455 Banana Bread m 

449-450 Boston Brown Bread yi^'lll 

441-442 Buns 378-380 

434 Butter Rolls (Vienna) zil 

448 Brunswick Loaf 369 

448-449 Bran Water Improves Bread 374 

361-362 Coffee Cakes 383-387 

431 Cinnamon Buns, Streussel- 

kuchen, Turkheads, Butter- 

445-448 kuchen, Wreaths, Vienna 

438-441 Coffee Cakes, Snails, etc 

430-431 Also see Volume L 

452 Columbia Bread 36^ 

433 Cottage Loaf (Straight 

Dough) 355 

442-444 Corn Muffins and Bread. •••• 3BI- 



INDEX 



FACKS 

Cream Bread 354 

Crullers 382 

Domestic Bread 365 

Doughnuts 3^2 

English Bread and Cakes 
See Volume I. 

Ferment and Sponge 358-359 

Form Kuchen (Vienna) ,^36 

French Sticks 368 

Fruit Bread 370 

French Bread and Cakes, 

Paris 323-327 

Medicated Bread, Potato 
Bread, Biscuits, Ginger 
Nuts, Muffins, Croustadcs, 
Pate Cases. Parisienncs, 
Brioches, Genuine Babas, 
Savarin Cake. 

Gerstel Vienna 357 

German Bread and Cakes 
Sec Volume I. 

Glucose Bread 370 

Gluten Bread 37^ 

Graham Bread, R«»lls and 

Gems 372-373 

Holland Bread 5»8 

Home-made Bread 3^>4 

Italian Bread 5 -'4-5-28 

Kaiser Semnicl 335 

Kipfel ( Vienna ) 334 

Kollatschcn (Bohemian) ... 341 

Krapfen (Vienna) 341 

Malt Bread 35'»\^57 

Maryland Biscuit 381 

Milk Bread 3^4 

Milk Rolls and lUm^ 3^5 

Milk Rye (Vienna) 337 

Mothers' Bread 355 

New England Loaf 353-358-374 

Norwegian Bread 533-537 

Pretzels (Process of Making 

Them) 345-348 

Parker House Rolls 377 

Potato Bread (Vienna) 336 

Potato Bread (American)... 365 

Quaker Bread (Straight 

Dough) 353 

Quick Loaf 37i 

Ripeness of Dough 3^9 



PACK 

Rolls 378-380 

Rusks 378-380 

Russian Bread 544 

Rye Bread (Straight Dough) 354 
Rye Bread (German). See 
Volume L 

Rye Bread (Vienna) 336 

Rye Bread (Yankee) 336 

Salt Rising Bread 362-363 

Salt Bread (without Yeast). 363 

Self-Raising Bread 363 

Schweitzer System Bread 

(Paris) 323 

Snow Flake Bread 368 

Spanish Bread 528-532 

Straight Dough 353 

Stritzel (Bohemian) 341 

Swedish Bread 533-537 

Swiss Bread 537-538 

Sour Milk Baking 385-386 

Rye and Meal Bread, Corn 
Bread, Doughnuts, Pop- 
overs, Johnnie Cake, and 
(lolden Muffins. 

Tea Biscuit 381 

Tropical Bread 553*564 

Twentieth Century Bread... 355 
\'ienna Bread (Straight 

Dough) 354 

Vienna Bread 357-3<>8 

Vienna Baking 334-34t 

X'ienna Bread fr)r Small 

Bakeries 373 

Whole Meal Bread 376 

Zwieback 387-391 

Zwiebacks: Milk, Carls- 
bad, German. Vienna, Anis, 
American, German Army, 
Improved Army, Fried- 
richsdorfer and Holland 
Zwieback. 

Heat for Baking 570-582 

Thermometer and Pyrome- 
ter, Scales, Temperature of 
Dough and Shop, Tempera- 
ture in Dough Making. The 
Oven Heat, Temperature 
of Bread During Baking. 



INDEX 



i'Ar;iis 

Machinery for Bakers 593-634 

Evohition of Bakers' Ma- ' 
chinery: Sifters, Mixers, 
Kncaders, Moulders. Douf^h 
Dividers, etc., of all coun- 
tries. 

Milling 476-493 

History and Development. 

Milk 412-419 

Buttermilk 412-413 

Characteristics uf Milk 405-406 

Composition of Milk 403-405 

Cream 408 

Dried Milk 413-419 

Food Value 402-403 

Nutrition 408 

Skim Milk in lUking 409-412 

Variations of Milk 406-407 

Modem Bakeries in Ameri- 
ca 494-514 

Modem Bakeries in Europe. 6y2-(yb7 
Plans for Bakeries 652-664 

Ovens for Bakers 635-651 

Evolution of Hake (^vens; 
Ovens in Different Coun- 
tries. 

Preservation of Bread 39-4-399 

Advantage of Wrapping 
Bread; Plow to Wrap 
Bread. 

Salt as Deterrent in Yeast 

Fermen*^^ation 391-394 

Statistics of Baking Industry 565-5()9 

Yeast Formulas 359-360 

Yeast Manufacture 583-592 

COLORED PLATES. 



<( 



Lithographed from the original 
bread varieties sent by leading bakers 
in the various countries. 

Appear in Volume I: 

After page 
Plate No. T. Germany (Berlin).., 28 
'* 2. Kngland 60 

3. France 92 

4. France 118 

" 5. Germany (Zwieback) 150 
" 6. Holland 182 



<* 



«< 



€1 



M 



n 



n 



II 



II 



4( 



PACES 

Plate No. 7. Germany ( Dresden, 

Karlsruhe) 210 

8. Germany (Augsburg, 
Stuttgart) 242 

9. Germany (M a g d e- 
burg) 274 

10. Austria (Vienna) . . . 276 

Appear in Volume II: 

Plate No. II. Bohemia (Prague).. 340 

12. Balkan States 3S0 

13. Belgium 420 

14. Italy 460 

1 5. Spain 500 

16. Norway 540 

17. Switzerland 580 

18. Russia 620 

19. America 660 



it 



(I 



(* 



<* 



i< 



It 



It 



ILLUSTRATIONS VOL. IL 

Bread, Rolls and Cake. 

.American 353. 354, 355, 364 

Belgitin 520 

French Cakes 3^8-329 

Hungarian Bread 344 

Pretzels 346 

Ko"^* 334. 335. 3^0 

Russian 541 

Swedish 534, 535 

Turkish 549 

Exhibition Bakeries. .656, 657, 659, 

664. 665, 666, 667 

Machinery. 

Bag Cleaner 596 

Blenders 6do, 602 

Dividers of Bread and Rolls, 627, 

628, 630, 631. 632 
Mixers and Kneaders, 601, 605, 606, 

607, 608-621 

Water Scales 603. 604 

Milling, 476, 477, 479. 480, 481, 489, 

490. 491. 492, 493 
Milk 414, 415, 417 

Miscellaneous. 

Baking Tests 487 

Baskets and Cases 626, 627 

Elevators 594, 595, 596 

Engine Rooms 582 

Heat Measures 573 



INDEX 



rAGKJt 



Indians Making Bread 561 

Loading Shed 546 

Mixing Room 564, 622 

Flour Testing 451. 485, 486 

Photographs of Bakers 331 

Racks and Trucks 623, 624 

Storage of Flour 457, 459 

Swiss Field Bakery 654 

Tunnel Connecting Bakeries 655 

Troughs and Trucks 597, 598, 599 

Proving Boxes 624, 625 

Ovens 635. 636, 637. 639-650 

Model Bakeries. 

American, 496. 497, 498, 499, 500. 501, 
502, 503, 504. 505. 506. 507, 50S, 

509. 510. Sn. 512, 513. 5M. 515 

Bermuda 563 

Bohemian 342, 343 

Holland 516, 517 

Leipzig 653 

Paris 310, 311, 313. 31^. 31H. 320 

Turkey 5:0. 550, 551 

Vienna 652 

Plans of Bakeries, s()^, 5c*). 510. dtio, 

(HtM, UiJ, 663 

Statistics 567, 56S. 5^ k) 

Wheat 420. 424. 42<), 428 

Yeast 583. 584. 5^5. 58'>-593 

ADVERTISEMENTS. 

AnuTJcaii Cotton Oil Co., New York. 

Andrews. Giilick & Sillcocks, Uakcrs* 
Supplies, Xew York. 

Bakers' Helper, Trade Paper, Chicago. 

Bakers' Review. Trade Paper. N. Y. 

Barl)nur- Stock well Co., Baker"*' Ma- 
chinery, Camhridgeport. 

Braun's Eg»r Saver. Patent Apparatus, 
Chicago, New York. 

C. A. Thomson Machine Co., Bread- 
Moulding Machinery. Belleville. N. J. 

Church & Dwight Co., Baking Soda, 
New York. 

C. H. King. Cake Books, Arlington. N.J. 

Crandall & Go<lley Co.. Bakers* Supplies 
and Tools, New York. 

Dry Milk Co., Milk Powder. New York. 

Durand Dough Kneader, New York. 

Eagle Roller Mills. Gold Coin Flour, 
New Ulm, Minn. 



Fleischmann & Co.. Yeast, New York. 

F. G. Hoerlein, Bakers' Tools, Brooklyn. 

Fowler Bros.* Dough Kneaders. B'klyn. 

French Mfg. Co., Egg Nutrinc and Spe- 
cialties, Philadelphia. 

G. B. Lewis Co., Shipping Boxes, 
Watertown, Wis. 

Hahicht, Braun & Co.. Importers of 
Bakers* Raw Materials, New York- 
Chicago. 

Henry Hcide, Almond Paste, New York. 

Henr>' H. Ottens. Bakers* Colors and 
Extracts. Philadelphia. 

H. J. Keith Co.. Frozen Egg^, Boston. 

Hicks & Schmidt, Bakers* Machinery, 
New York. 

Hohmann & Maurer, Thermometers, 
Rochester, N. Y. 

Jas. Y. Watkins & Son, Bakers* Tools, 
New York. 

J. H. Day Co., Bakers' Machiner>', Cin- 
cinnati. 

J. Middlehy, Jr.. Inc.. Pie-fillings and 
Bakers' Supplies. Boston. 

Joseph Baker & 5vons. .Am. Oven Co., 
Draw Plate Ovens and Machinery, 
Chicago. 

Malt 1 )iasta^e Co., Malt Extracts. B'klyn. 

Middlehy Oven Co., Port«ihle Brick 
Ovens. Boston — New York — Chicago. 

Mus>>»:iller & Mangels Co., Bakers* Sup- 
plies and Tools, New York. 

National Baker. Trade Paper, Phila. 

Nat. Nutrient Co.. Milk Powder. J. City. 

Old C.rist Mill. Entire Wheat Flour. 
Boston. .Mass. 

Pure Fo«hI Co., Egg Flake. New York. 

Richard .Megson & Co. Patent Tr>ols 
and Cruller Apparatus. Camhri<ige- 
|K>rt, Mas>. 

RoluTts. Port. Oven Co.. Ovens, Chicago. 

Schall & Co.. Cake Ornaments, N. Y. 

Sevigne Bread Wrapper Co., Co-opera- 
tive, Wax Paper, Bags, etc., Boston. 

Spielmann Bros. Co., Yeast, Chicago. 

Washhum Crosby Co., Gold Medal 
Flour, Minneapolis. 

Werner & Pfleidercr. Ovens and Ma- 
chinery, Saginaw, Mich. 

Wittenberger, Bakers* Supplies. N. Y. 

Zaubitz, Pyrometers, New York. 

Zoeller, Dough Dividers, Chicago. 



The Crandall & Godley Co 

Importers^ Manufacturers and Jobbers in 
Every Description of 



ESS. 
OILS 

EXTRACTS 
GELATINE 



"BaKfirs^ and 
Conj^ectioners^ 

SUPPLIES 



SPICES 

DRIED 

FRUITS 

MOLASSES 



157 & 159 Franklin St. 7 & 9 Leona^rd St. 

NEW YORK 



H. J. Keith Co. 



No. J2 South Market St. 



BOSTON, MASS. 



Frozen and Unfrozen Canned Eggs Case Eggs 

WHITES YOLKS MIXED 

~ _ _ , 

One Grade of Separated Whites and Yolks— THE BEST 

THREE GRADES OP MIXED, BESIDES TANNEI^' STOCK 

Purity and §luality Guaranteed 



Corres(>oDdenceaDd Inspection Invited. References Given. Season Contracts Made 
==WE HAVE BOTH WESTERN AND EASTERN PACKING POWTS 

Packing and Dealing in Eggs is Our Exclusive Business 

hor Ten Years Our Best Frozen CanrnJ F^s Havt Stood in a Class by Thtmstivts 



IMPROVED CREAM 
WHIPPING MACHINE 



t 

4* 




CROM the testimcninls of thoso now using our Improved Cream 
Whipper, we guaranleti that it will do the work better and 
quicker than other machines now on the market. 15 quarts of 
sweet cream will yield 60 quarts of whipped cream. 



= WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUES 



JAMES Y. WATKINS & SON:: 

(Mamtfac hirers o/" Hotel and Restaurarit Kitchen 
Ware, Bakers' and Confectioners' Utensils 



Tinning in All its BraiKhes 



Rqmirs for All Styles of French R 



1; FRENCH RANGES AND BROILERS ;: 

It 16 and 18 CATHERINE STREET \ID\A/ V/^DIZ ** 

£ and II EAST BROADWAY INDW Hjlv(\ ^ 




-o/®^ 16. 18 fstivZO WESTBRO/^DWi^^oo' 







MussGiLLER & Mangels' 

359 Washington Street, New York. 



OUR LINE OF BAKERS' SUPPLIES, EXTRACTS, 
UTENSILS, PANS, IS THE MOST COMPLETE 
IN AMERICA. j^jtjfjfjtj^jfjtJ'**jtj'Ji 



Send for Catalogue. 



« mailed Tree. 




^^T^^Jmw 



•■CONTAINS 
Over 32 Per eent. of earbonic Held Gas. 
Over 99 Per eent. Pure BUearbonate. 



Xo Cake and Paatry Bakera. 

KING'S NEW eHKE 
and PASTRY BAKER 



SECOND EDITION 



AN UP^Te^DATB BOOK 
eP NBW IDBAS 




Special price reduced to 

One Dollar 



To those wishing to COMPETE with their COMPETITORS, this 
book should be worth MANY TIMES ITS COST. 



THESE ARE TAKEN FROM OTHERS OF A LIKE NATURE. 

Dallas, Texas, Nov. 7, 1900. 

Mr C. H. King:—. ... I think Tonr book a success, it contains jnst what is 
needed in every Bakery New Ideas in Cake Making. 

I have already increased my Cake trade and I expect to much more when I get 
my new pans ready. 

I have several trade books but don*t like them as well as yonrs for the reason 
that they do not explain them at all, and a good many are useless for that reason 
.... Wishing you success with your book, which is a step in the right direction^ 

Yours truly, A. F. SCHNEIDER, 183 Ervay St. 

Frostburg, Md., May 27, 1901. 

Mr. C. H. King: — . . . . Your book contains all vou claim for it. . . . It gives 
me |K>lish and keeps me in touch with the up-to-date fine trade. 

Very truly yours, EDWIN J. D. MATTHAU. 

St. Louis, Mo., Nov. 5, 1900. 

Mr. C. H. King: — . ... It is indeed a useful book. ... I have taken three or 
four ideas from it which I have made good use of and feel well repaid for the 
expenditure, and would be loath to part with it. . . . 

E. W. LASBY, 2837 Easton Ave. 

Mobile, Ala., March 23, 1901. 

Mr C. H. King: — . . . . Your book gives perfect satisfaction and is just what it 
is represented. It is first class in every respect. . . . 

LOUIS BACHO, Jr., Head Pastry Cook, Battle Honse Hotel. 

New York, N. Y., Nov. 9, 1900. 

Mr. C. H. King:—. ... I and my friends are fully satisfied with yonr book. 
. . . some bright, new hints, as well as other things pertaining to the trade being 
brought out, there is no question about it. 

A. C. THAYER, 615 Columbus Ave. 
(This gentleman had one, then three for his friends.) 

THIS BOOK SHOULD PReVE A GOOD INVBSTMENT. 

Mailed to any address, Postpaid, on receipt of the price, One Dollar. 
Send for circular and list of the contents of this book. Address, 

&. n. KING, Arlington, New Jersey, Box 74. 

Write address plainly, giving State and County ; also box number, if you have one. 



^ttknb^r^jsiii 




WITTENBERGER & CO. 



Confectioners' and 
Jt Bakers' Supplies^ 



137 READE STREET, NEW YORK 

Write for CataloRue 



N ON-POISONOUS COLORS 

For Bakers and Confectioners 



SPECIALTIES FOR BAKERS 

Chocolate Brown Paste 25ci per lb. 

Yolk Color (dry) $2.00 per lb. 

Yolk Color (Uquid) $t.SO per (aL 

SPECIAL PRICES ON LARCBK QUAHTITIBS. 



n 

s s 
i s 



M. NEUMANN 

1484 Washington Avenue 
NEW YORK 




Cint 0tU aitdalt Ran-JImtrtani emcsMhn 



Walter Baker &Co/s 
Chocolate,,. 

Put up in lo lb. cakes for BAKERS" 
USE. 

It is the pure product of high grade 

cacao beans from which all husks and 

cellular tissues have been removed. 

making it unequaled for smoothness. 

=^ delicacy and flavor. 

Bakers will find it the most econom- 
ical and satisfactory to use, as it is 
always uniform in quality and can be depended upon to 
yield the best results. 

Cbf i^'thht gfflftfg/ Awards la €urept and Xmtiita. 




Uodir ilu dcdiioai of th< U. S. Caiun as at 



T CkocoUM or Cms* 



.^ J* > 

WALTER BAKER & CO. Umited 

EsUUIslMd 1790. 

Dorchester, Mass. 



CABLE AODHCSS 
"ANDqULStL." 




5m|jorfers, 



^'''^-^V^ 

^l I ANTi 

.^RAfSID 



Jobbers, 



'^iFiBarr?E!isgi) su»Jis. 
^^KjH Grade Extracts 

^"^Caffeful <l)alectioT\, J| 

Sest OiJAlities. ]§, 





To l>c run by band or i)ow«r 



Send tor Onr Price List and Catalogne 




Machixb juisanued wi 
Di'UPiNO Pan and Electric Motok 

ATTACBED DtKECTLy TO IT, 

Capacity, 3 to 5 barrels 



Durand Dou^h Kneader 

168 GtiamlMsrs Street, New York 



Oar Dough Kneaders are the best machines for making 
straight Dough, Perieet French Rolls and Rje Bread. 



FLEISCHMANN'S 

YEAST 



VEGETABLE 
COnPRESSED 



HAS NO EQUAL. 



standard Malt Extract 

FOR BAKERS' USE. 



The Advantages of Using "Standard 

Malt Extract" are: 



I . It gives the Bread a better taste 
2. /It gives the Bredd a rictier color 
3. 



4. 

5. 
6. 
7. 



8. 



It gives the Bread a finer crust 
It renders the Bread more digestible 

It saves Sugar 

It saves Lard 

Less Flour is required to make 
dough of proper consistency 

Prevents the rapid drying of Bread 
(Becoming stale) 



V. 



Induces a 

Larger 

Consumption 

of Bread. 

Cheapens 

the 
Manufacture 

of 
Bread. 



I 



Standard Malt Kxtract is now used by the largest bakin^r firms, 
and hundreds of smaller bakers, who have never had a success with 

malt extract, are using our Standard Brand now with best results. 



MANUFACTURED BY 



THE MALT-DIASTASE COMPANY, 

LABORATORY AND OFFICE: 

Bushwick Avenue and Qanlen Street, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Samples end further lufformetion will be cheerfully furulehed upon eppllcetion. 




~M Genuine 



ALMOND PASTI 



For BaKing Macaroons and Almond Confections. 



1875 



a 

•0 

a 







190 



e 



0) 
6 
n 
n 



Manufactured by 



HENRY HEIDE. 



84, 86. 88. 90 Vandam St., 



NtW YORK Cn 



Sold by Every Supply House in America. 



HABICHT, BRAUN & CO 

New York, 177 Franklin Street 
Chicago, 32-36 Michigan Avenue 



IMPORTERS AND HEADQUARTERS 

FOR .^ r^-^ -===. 

Baker's Raw Materials 



SHELLED NUTS 

OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS 

SHELLED ALMONDS 

FILBERTS, PECAN HALVES AND PIECES 

PEANUTS, WALNUT HALVES 

CEYLON COCOANUT 

ABSOLUTKLV PURE, FREE FROM ALL ADULTERATIONS 

DRIED FRUITS 

CURRANTS, SULTANA RAISINS 

FIGS, DATES, CITRON, PEELS 

HONEY— CUBAN and CALIFORNIAN 

ESSENTIAL OILS 

SEEDS— CARAWAY and POPPY 

GERMAN WAFERS 

FRENCH FRUITS and FRUIT PULPS 



•W*Sii^«* 



Bread Moulding 



Machine 



MOULDS j.ooo LOAVES EVERY HOUR 
SAVES $50.00 EVERY WEEK 

IF INTKRE9TBD WRITB TO 

C. A. Thomson Machine Co. 

BELLEVILLE, N. J., U. S. A. 




IXOKRI'RIN'S PATENT O-AS STOVK 




It Saves Fuel 

It Saves Labor 

It Gives 

Satisraction 



F. G. HOERLEIN 

UanulSLtunr, DcakriindlniiiDrwrof 

i«i'My',viv". Rsk^rs' Utensils •"^'^"'''•^ 

Brooklyn. N,Y. ****'**^' ^ »t*»ltiyilV Hrooklyn, N.Y. 
Ever)'thing we s«II in made of the liest material by the tiest nieehaDlcs. 



Cost per Trip for Bread Shipments Lower 



Parks' Patent IToven IVood and IV ire 

BAKERS' BOX 




Thousands of Them In Usi 



THK GRKATK-I" MONEY SAVING 
BREAD PACKAGE MANUFACTURED 
Costs from oDc-hBlf to one-fifth as taucb ai any olher packa)(e 
Write for Pruts and Full Particulars 

G.B.Lewis Co., Watertown. Wisconsin, U.S. A 



Than any other Box or Basket on the Market 



If you want an Onn that yoa can al«rayi cad your own, and that yoa e 
pat up or tak« down youncll — buy a 

Black Diamond Opcm 
a DiamoMd Double Btcic Ow or a 
' new BomctteaJ Ooeii 




oven, with fumaco pliccd In the baclt. 



These Ovens Have All Heavy Tik Bakitt; Surface! 
Ther Do Not Heat Up the Bakery 



Roberts Portable Oven Co. 



CHICAGO, ILL. 



SPIELMANN BROS. CO 



INCORPORATED 



Manufacturers of 

COMPRESSED 

YEAST 



HAS STOOD THE TEST FOR ONE QUARTER 

OF A CENTURY, and is often quoted as the 

Strongest and Most Uniform Yeast on the 

Market at a REASONABLE PRICE. 



For Sample and Price Write to 

SPIELMANN BROS. CO. 

93-99 E. North Ave., Chica^^o 



BRANCH DEPOTS 

ERNST FOERQ - 2641 Qermmiitowa Avenne. Philadelphia. Pa. 

RUDOLPH MUNZ . . - 45 Hayes Street, Newark. N. J« 

QEORQE M. 5CHAEFER - • 625 Court Street. CinclnoaU. O. 

PETER J. EQLOFF • • 41 Neptune Place. Boffffalo. N. Y. 

WM. A. RANCH & CO. • 874 Qreenfleld Ave., illlwaakee. Wis. 



i 


ka 


^ 


i 




» 




rr>de Hsrk (BkX Nntriue) 



WE are the original and 
ONLY ManaCacturers of the 
following articles, which are 
especially adapted for Ba- 
ker*» Use! 

Egg Nntrine the only satisrac- 
tory Egg Substitute ever manufac- 
tured. Five cents' wonh equals 
one dozen fresh Eggs. 

Baker's Marahmallow Ici* 
Iiine superior to and cheaper than 
Glue or Gelatine, and makes the 
M. M. short and tender. 

Quaker Icing Powder for all 

kinds of icings. Costs less than 
half the price of Egg Whites when 
cheapest. 



Need Ice your Cream but once in Twenty-four hours 

CREME-URE 

PREVENTS CKEAM FROM MELTING QUICKLY 



Creme-Ure will cause cream or milk to beat 
up and double itself, and will prevent cream 
from melting quickly. Just the thing for 
wholesalers and steam ice cream manufac- 
turers, and for bricks, fancy forms, etc, 

FRENCH 

MANUFACTURING 

COMPANY 

HENRY H. OTTENS, Proprietor 

121-123 S. Water Street 

Philadelphia, U. S. A. 

CHICAGO Branch: «0 Wabash Ave. 




PHILADELPHIA nomeimemmmd Wortat 

PARI5 LEIPSIC 121-123 So. W«t«r5C 

CHICAQO PhllMtolpiita 





HENRY R OTTENS 

IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF 

G>nf ectioners^ and Bakers' 

Harmless Coloris 

^^i—» BVERY POUND GUARANTBBD ^-b—* 

PHILADELPHIA PA., U.S-A. 

Wc are the largest importers and manufacturers of strictly 
non-poisonous Food Colorings in the United States, and 
guarantee every pound we sell. 

Golden Shade Dry Imported Egg G)lor 

Strongest and best Egg Color on the market for steam Bakers. Entirely 
free from a greenish tint, and guaranteed perfectly Harmless. 

Light Shade Egg G>lor 

Lighter than the above, and not quite as natural a shade, but a good, 
strong Egg Color for general use. 

Domestic Egg G>Ior 

specially adapted for making Liquid Egg G>Ior (as sold by Jobbcis)* 

One pound dissolved in 4 or 5 gallons of hot water gives a very clear, 
strong solution, no sediment. 

We are the 5ole Ageota for Star Braod Chocolate Browo Paste Color,— A Fine 
medium shade of Chocolate color, fully three times as strong as many of those now 
manufactured. Not a weak, watery mixture, but a thick and strong paste color. 
Also import and manufacture a full line of Bakers' and Confectioners' Harmless 
Colorings in Dry^ Paste or Liquid form. We will be pleased to furnish samples of 
colors with full directions for use on application. 



Are You a Member of 



THE BAKERS* 



Sevigne Bread (Urapper 

« Company « 

(COOPERATIVE) 

'f 9 7 



All members of this mutual association secure large discounts on 
all goods purchased through co-operative buying. 

No baker is too large and none too small to join — write us for 
membership application blanks, at once. 

None but members of the trade (Bakers and Grocers) are eligible 
to membership. 

Price cutting is killed by this association of Bakers and Grocers 
as they join in mutual protection. 

Don't m% 'fie (Ubo fiesliates is Cost'* 

The association handles all kinds of waxed papers, Manillas, 
bags, twine, boxes and other specialties used in the bakery. 

This co-operative association is composed of some of the most 
prominent Bakers and Grocers in the country, and is managed by 
men chosen from the members, who are thoroughly familiar witli 
this business and its requirements. 

WRITE FOR PARTICULARS 



The Bakers' 

Sevigne Bread mrapper €o. 

(CO-OPERATIVE) 

•STON NEW YORK CHICAGO 






• 


i Itili? 2iii i:i iS 

^l^tilllPl: iff 8 


• mm 

o 

g 

o 
o 

• 

X 

• 


Lira!?.!.;; I-i' < 
(2 llWnViimH S 



BAKE OVEN PYROMETEBS 

A TRUE HEAT INDICATOR 
FOR ANY STYLE OF OViN 



By its aid the bread or crackers can be 
baked more uniformly; it is also a sav. 
in^ of fuel always lo know the exact 
lem|)eramre of the oven .■ .- .- .- 



AUGUST ZAUBITZ 

48 CENTRE ST , =^Solc Mamhclure i NEW YORK 




THE BEST 



Dough Divider 



For Rolls, Bum, Biscuits, etc 



ENDORSED BY 
THE TRADE 



Wm. Zoeller 

MANUFACTURER 
13 Sa Caniil SL, Chicafo, lU. 




Sbermometers 

for 

IBakc (S>vcns 

and (Dtber fiatifns (Operations 



tCbc *ffobmann S, ITlaurer 
ITIanufacturind Company 

IRocbester, f) . V* 



F I N T E K K S T E , WRITE TO L" 5 K (1 R 

Supptement to ipart X 



HItbMt AwmrOa at World** ExblMtlMW 



34aoMrtodali 



inPROVED 

Draw Plate Ovens 

SINGLE AND DOUBLE DECKERS, ALSO 
"COMBINATION" DRAW AND PEEL 




nkatntfeo oi a "COMBINATION " Omw 1. 1^ Cm Draw PUla Btlov 
and Peel Oren twtll above 



PATENTEES AND BUILDERS 



Joseph Baker & Sons American Oven Co. 

FELIX NOTZ, Tnas. and Oen'l Nlgr., 
OFFICE AND WORKS. 6i<«3 UaioB Park Place. CHICAOO, ILL. 



LONDON, ENGLAND. BKANTFORD. CANADA. MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA. 



HlfliMt Awards «t World'* BxUbttloiM 



34 0oMn«italt 



inPROVED 

Draw Plate Ovens 

SINGLE AND DOUBLE DECKERS. ALSO 
■■COMlilNATION" DRAW AND PEEL 




PATBNTBES AND BUILDBRS 

Baker & Sons American Oven Go. 



FELIX NOTZ, Tr«as. and Qtn'l ngr., 
OFFICE AND WORKS. «i<63 Union Paric PUc«, CHICAOO, ILL. 

I LONDON. ENGLAND 



WERNER & PFLEIOERER, 

SAGINAW, MICH. 



BMIL 5TABHLB, Qmi'I 




Thb Photograph shows $ of (he lo Ovens of the Messrs. Freihofer's Viouu 
Baking Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 



ee tlie well-known^ 



WERNER & PFLEIDERER 

PATENT DRAW PLATE OVENS 



at every Leadinf Bakery throughout the United States. 

The Greatest TIME and LABOR 
SAVING DEVICE. 

Write for Booklet and Pricea. 



TnitaW WUuk 






WERNER & PFLEIDERER, 

SAGINAW, MICH. 

BMIL STAEHLB, Om'I flaagtr. 




4.B6L. MACHINE. WITH TROUGH TILTED FOR EMPTYING. 
Tilting is done Automatically by a light Pressing of the Atlentknt's Foot, 

PATENT "UNIVERSAL" 

KNEADING AND MIXING MACHINES. 

^1A»^ oe Highest Awards. ^ l Af^ 

Tra<l«W WMark ^ Trula WW Mwk 

■ • Write for Booklet and Prices. ^ • 



We can*t get along 
without iV* 



That's the statement of ninety per cent, 
of the subscribers to .• 



^he Bakers Review^ 



Can you afford to be without what is prized 
so highly by thousands of your intelligent 
fellow bakers ? At least you will admit 
that it would be wise to investigate by 
sending for a sample copy, which doesn't 
cost anything. 

Note that TKe BmRers Review's 
chief aim is to be 

Practical 



Every issue is full of new ideas, instruction, 
suggestions — a very mine of useful infor- 
mation. No one but the ** know it all " can 
fail to learn a great deal which will improve 
his business and indirectly put money in 
his |X)cket. 

Incidently TKe BaRers Revieur is a 
handsomely gutten-up, entertaining maga- 
zine, as fit for the home as the bake shop. 
It is published in both English and German. 

ONE DOI.I.AR A YEAR 



S A M r L F. C O !• Y F R K F. O N R E <,> I' t S T 



WM. R. GREGORY CO.. Publishers 

PRODUCE CXCHANGS 4> NEMT YOR-K CITY 




CHieago. 



IS 



The Helper for Bakers 



THE OLDEST, LAR- 
GEST, BEST KNOWN 



MOST OUOTED, WIDEST 
CIRCULATED 



f Journal for Bakers in 



mertca 



• • • • • • 

• • • • • • 



SAMPLE COPY SENT FREE ON 

APPLICA TION 



31 S Dearborn Street, Chicago 



^•••^•••••••»»»»^»»»»»»»^»< 



T/<eNati»*al 




of the Ba^kln^ Tr&de 




JRINTS all the news of profit 
to Bakers and each issue 
contains valuable technical 
articles, practical recipes 
and new methods of baking, 
suggestions as to store management and 
window decorations, matters affecting 
the trade, descriptions of new inventions 
of interest to the baker, etc. 



_/? Good In-Ve-tlmtnl ^or any TiaKfr 
Subacripllon Price. - ■ One DolUr & Yen.r 



\ A D D R E S Sm 



The National Baker 

411 Wt9.1nut Street, PHILADELPHIA. PA. 



PERFECTION ^,,%^., 

SAVER 



Saving 

Rakcshop always dean, v y^ 
No eggshells on bake- I M V 
shop floor. *»^ 




J GOODMAN & SON. 



Joseph Baker & Sons American Oven Co. 

FELIX NOTZ, Ominl Maoaeer 

Eii'lLBBAlN. eXk"] A'ii^aa ^^ ^^'' ^3 IJ'^'O" l'''*""- PLACE 
E.ck»[t. Nc. Y.rk CI,,, ChiCKgO - - lllinolfl 



r 


■l ir^ ;S' ■ RISES BEST . '^^B 


> 


ft ■ iL^ ■ 




Washburn-Crosby's 

GOLD 
MEDAL FLOUR 

MANUFACTURED IN 
THE FAMOUS WASHBURN MILLS 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 
DAILY CAPACITY 25.000 BARRELS. 






I^J 



GEORGE J. HICKS 



mCKS & SCHMIDT 



BUILDERS AND CONSTRUCTORS OF 



BAKERS' 

Machinery 



:: MILLWRIGHTS AND MACHINISTS :: 



587-589 GREENWICH STfiEET 



Wnte for Oar Estimate on 
equipping your plant includ- 
ing Shaitinf , Pulleys, Etc. 



New YorK 



CAN FURNISH REFER. 
ENCES FROM SOME of 

thb largest B AKERI ES 



For Health Bread use the 
OLD GRIST MILL 

ENTIRE WHEAT FLOUR 



4L Milled from specially selected hard wheat by a process 
invented by the late S, M. Pennock, who was an ac- 
knowledged expert on flours throughout this country. 

4L It makes a large handsome loaf without adding white 
flour^ so that the healthfulness and natural sweetness of 
the entire wheat is retained. 



MILLED AT THE 



(CIIARLESTOWN DISTRICT) 



Old Grist Mill, Boston^ Mass. 



Richard Megson & Co 

Inventor, Manufaicturer, Kxpert Designer 
and Compounder of New Goods made by 

nHg$oti'$ Dttk bonders 



-Ft>R- 



Bakers and Confectioners 



Also Mfrs. of Megson* s Cruller and Doughnut Apparatus 

Illustrations and Description Furnished upon Application 

46 State Street - Cambridgeport, Mass., U. S. A. 



MIDDLEBY'S 

Rod Pall . . 
Pie fillings 



The b«li of our 
nilingi i* compostd of 
Frtth Eggs, Frjit ind 
CruHiliUd Sugar. 

Do not »ke other Pi< 
FUlins!., which ate tiid 




UST OF OUR Pie 

Fimttcs 



Insist on getting Middleby's 
THEY ARE THE BEST 

Manulacfured by 

J. MIDDLEBY, Jr. 

Factory: CHARLEsrowN 201 State St., BOSTON 




8 



IS the strangest and best built Mixer on the market. 
It will mix flour into bread-dough in six (6) 
minutes, and will give you a better and more 
uniform bread than can be made bv hand. 

Built in sizes from one (i) to nine (91 barrels 
capacity for power, and from one-half (_'i ) to two (2) 
barrels capacity for hand power. 



FOWLER BROTHERS, Sole Manufacturers 

131. 133. 135 Third Street. Brooklyn. N. Y. 



Bakers' Machinery 

MANUFACTURED BY 

Barbour-Stockwell Co. 



205 Broadway 



CAMBRIDGEPORT, MASS. 




BOSTON MIXER 

speedy machine ever [ 

ting of pastes, doughs i 

MADB IN THE FOLLOWING SIZESi 

ONE-HALF BBL. ONE BBL. 

TWO BBL. FOUR BBL. 

SIX BBL, 

We Manufacture All Up-to-Date BAKERS' MACHINERY 



SUMMO AIL 



Pure PaHteurizct] Milk in Dry Form 
Carefully manufactured and packed in our 

own CreamericH 

Keeps Sweet and FrcHh in any Climate 
ContaiiiH no Cane Su>^ar or other adulterant 

or prcBcrvativc 



1 


^^^^^^^^^Sr 


^'-^^^1 


1 


i SUMMOAR^' 


j9 


I 




g 



DIvIMILK — A fine powder ; specially adapted for wholesale baking 

trade 

MILK FLAKES — A superior high-grade pnxluct fur household, 
cooking or bakers' use 

CIx.EaM flakes — Conttining high percentage of purs 
cream. A great improvement over ordinary high-class condensed 
milk— specially adapted for Army and Navy use, Steamships, Camp 
ers. Explorers, etc.. and all places where fresh milk is scarce 
SE.VD FOK SVMMOjKB^ /XFOKMATJOX .1X1) KECIPES 



THE DRY MILK COMPANY, 

1 1 Rroadnay. N. Y. CITY. 



^ ifU<H» UOO UOt 



OcO*-* \n 



HARVAIO 



OOIXBK 




