\> 



The Presbyterian 
Cook '^ok, - 



# 



PUBLISHED BY THE LADIES OF 

THE FIRST PRESBYTERIAN 

CHURCH OF NEW 

BRIGHTON, PA. 

M D C C C C I 1 



'€ 



■..;/ 



The Presbyterian cook dook. 



3 1924 000 658 702 




HOTEL ADMINISTRATIOM 
LIBRARY 

AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY 

THE GIFT OF 

ANN Ia/SEKS STICKNEY 



HIS STORE IS LOCATED, 
CORNER THIRD AVENUE AND NINTH STREET, 

NEW BRIGHTON, PA. 




The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000658702 



Advertisements. 



^. iSc/ffar S^yarij 

'Drj/ Soods and potions. 

We wish to call your attention to the fact that the U^ine of 

Carpet Samples for Sprinj/j /902j will be the 

greatest ever shown in the \'^alley. 

Brussels, Velvets, Wiltons, 

Axminsters, Ingrains. 



/SO Samples to choose /rom. 30c to Sf- SO a yard. 

Full line of Rugs and Matting, Oil Cloth and 
Linoleum, ^^'indow Shades and Fixtures. 

900 Uhird ytvenuej 9/ew i^riyhton. 

CAPITAL, $150,000.00. 

Beaver County Crust Company, 

new BrigDton, Pa. 

Transacts a general Trust and Banking Business. Accounts 
solicited and e^■ery accommodation extended 
, consistent with sound banking. 

SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. 

Deposits of $1.00 and upwards received on which 
interest at- rate of 4 per cent, is paid. Interest compounded 
semi-annually. 

DIRECTORS. 

' Frederick G. Barker, President. 

C. A. Barker, Vice President. George DaVidson, Treasurer. 
Agnew Hice, Secretary. 
John Reeves, F. F. Brierly, 

Oliver Molter, J. F. Mitchell, J. J. Hoffnian, 

J. F. Miner, J. G. Mitchell, Chas. R. Eckert, 

A. M. Jolly, C. H. Bentel, J. H. Wilson. 



Presbyterian Cook Book. 



ITbe IDinion IRational Bank, 

Cor. XTbfrO Bvenue anO Bintb Street, 

IRew BriQbton, ipa. 



C. M. Merrick, President. 

J. F. Miner, Vice President, 

E. H. Seiple, Cashier, 

C. C. Keck, Assistant Cashier. 



Capital, $50,000.00. 
Surplus, $25,000.00. 



Savings accounts from one dollar upwards received. 

Interest paid on time deposits. 

The Bank will be open Saturday evenings from 7.00 to 8.30 o'clock. 



PAFF BROS. 

THE LEADING DRY GOODS, 
CLOAK AND CARPET HOUSE. 

Oar Daily Bargain Sales 
are the talk of the County. 

PAFF BROS. BEAVER FALLS, PA. 

JOHNSON &i GORE, 

SELL 
QUEEN QUALITY SHOES. 

ALL STYLES 
$3.00. 

1118 SEVENTH AVENUE, BEAVER FALLS, PA. 



Advertisements. 




NATHAN A. COUCH, 

FUNERAL DIRECTOR, 
NEW BRIGHTON, PA. 



McCA W'S 

Hair 
Tonic 

CURES 

Dandruff. 



H. R. BROWN, 

JEWELER AND OPTICIAN, 
1009 THIRD AVENUE, NEW BRIGHTON, PA. 



W. C. Donaldson, 

Practical Plumber, Gas and Steam Fitter, 
Corner Fourth Avenue and Tenth Street, New Briehton, Pa. 



J. D. McANLIS, 



JEWELER AND OPTICIAN, 



Carries a full line of Jewelry, 
Fine Watches, Cut Glass Ware 
and Art Goods. 



nOS SEVENTH AVENUE, 
BEAVER FALLS. 



Tel. SS. 



Flinner Bros. 

Leading Grocers, 



902 Third Avenue, 



New Brighton, Pa. 



Presbyterian Cook Book. 



Uelcpbone, mo. 13=3. 



plumbing, 

(Bas anb 
Steam ifittlng, 

Cor. jfourtb ave. anO IRintb St. 

iRew Brfgbton, pa. 




ll 



h 














THE 


PRESBYTERIAN 
COOK BOOK. 




^ 










PUBLISHED BY 
THE LADIES OF 
THE FIRST 
PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH OF 
NEW BRIGHTON 
PENNSYLVANIA. 
M D C C C C I I 

PRESS OF STEVENSON ft FOSTER "COMPANY, 
PITTSBURG, PA. 



A REQPE FOR A DAY. 

Take a little dash of water cold 

And a little leaven of prayer, 
And a little bit of morning gold 

Dissolved in the morning air. 

Add to your meal some merriment, 
And a thought for kith and kin ; 

And then, as the prime ingredient, 
A plenty of work throw in. 

But spice it all with the essence of love 

And a tiny whiff of play ; 
Let a wise old Book and a glance above 

Complete the well-made day. 

— Amos R. Wells. 



INDEX. 

PAGES. 

Soups, 13- 19 

Fish and Oysters, 23- 27 

Meats and Poultry, - - 31- 42 

Salads and Salad Dressing's, 45- S3 

Vegetables, 57- 63 

Bread, Rolls, etc., 67- 77 

Relishes, 81- 82 

Puddings and Desserts, 85-105 

Pies, 109-114 

Cakes, - 117-139 

Ice Creams and Sherbets, 143-147 

Pickles, Jellies, etc., 151-156 

Invalids Dishes, ■ 159-160 

Miscellaneous, 163-164 



10 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

A. A. EWINQ, 

PIANOS, ORGANS AND SEWING MACHINES, 
, No. 1008 SEVENTH AVENUE, BEAVER FALLS. 

Some ladies will spend more time and thought over a dinner 
than they do in the selecting of a piano. The dinner is soon a thing of 
the past, not so the piano, it is something to last a life time. You may 
have material plenty to select from, yet only by years of experience can 
all the fine accessories be attended to. After nearly twenty-two years of 
practice, I feel sure I can select a piano properly. Conscientiously 
looking after the value of each one. Will not try to sell you a two 
hundred dollar one for four hundred. I sell fine pianos with every 
modem equipment at their real value which is much lower than 
regular prices paid. Before you get a piano, ladies, please give me 
the opportunity to demonstrate these facts. I have sold to a majority 
of the best musicians in Beaver County and now invite inspection 
of my goods. 

Call on or address 

Mrs. A. A. Ewing, 

No. 1008 Seventh Avenue, 

'Phone 242-2. Beaver Falls. 

Orders for tuning attended to promptly. 

uhe ^ig^ i)epartment utore^ 

9^o. //OO Sevenih .yivenuej leaver .^a/Jsj iPa, 



Largest line in the Beaver 
Valley oiCooJeinff and S^a/c- 
inff 2/tensi/s at lowest prices. 

QUALITY 
is our first consideration. ^oman dc Schweibinz. 

^°™ A. E STURGEON, 

FOR 

AWNINGS, PORCH CURTAINS, UPHOLSTERING AND 
PICTURE FRAMING, 

TELEPHONE No. 2. No. 1 J 15 THIRD AVENUE. 



PREFACE. 

In the days of our Grandmothers, cook-books 
'were almost anknoivn, and I nvetl remember 
inquiring honv they ever teamed to cook. My 
mother's reply -was "They experimented." I 
suppose ive are profiting by many of these 
experiments. Though it has been said "Of the 
making of many books there is no end" — and 
cook-books are no exception to the rule — yet ive, 
the 'Presbyterian ladies of Ne^iv 'Brighton, ivish to 
add one more to the list, assuring our friends that 
all the recipes lue present have been selected ivith 
care, and have stood the test of " The proof of 
the pudding is the eating." They are plain and 
practical. We offer this little book to the public, 
hoping it may ansiver the ever recurring question, 
" What shall ive have to eat?" and so lighten 
the burden v)hich tires both brain and body of 
the busy houseiuife. 



12 



Presbyterian Cook Book. 



HEALTHY WOMEN 



you must be to enjoy 
this book. To be 
healthy you must 
exercise properly. 

The Whitely Exerciser 
and Athletic Goods 

sold by the 



GLOBE PRINTING CO., beaver falls, pa. 

Will give the desired results. 




There is always more snap and ginger 
in our clothing 
than in the ordinary kind — 
young men say so. 

BUTLER & JACKSON, 

"THE TWO JOHNS," 

BEAVER FALLS. NEW BRIGHTON. ROCHESTER. 

Stucki/'s 

i/ied Cross S^harmacj/,,, 

903 "Uhird Jivenue, 9^eio Sdriffhton, 

Can supply you with anything you want in Drugs, Patent 
Medicines, Toilet Articles, Paints, Brushes and Seeds. 

2W? carry ijie largest stock in our line in the leaver I/alley. 



SOUPS. 

" No%> good digestion 'cva.it on appetite, a.nd health on both." 

— Shakespeare. 

SOUP STOCK. 

One shin of beef, 5 quarts of cold water, i onion, 
I carrot, i turnip, 2 bay leaves, i sprig parsley, 12 
cloves, I stalk of celery, i tablespoonful salt. Wipe 
the meat well with a clamp towel; now cut all the 
meat from the bones. Place the bones in the bottom 
of a large porcelain lined or granite soup kettle, lay 
the meat on top of them, add the water and stand the 
kettle on the back part of the range for an hour, then 
place it over a good fire. After about thirty minutes, 
the scum of the meat will p^ather on the surface and 
the water will begin to steam. Now place it over a 
moderate fire, add one cup of cold water and skim 
off the scum. Now cover the kettle closely and let it 
simmer (not boil) for four hours, then add the vege- 
tables and simmer one hour loneer. Then strain the 
stock through a sieve, add salt and stand at once in a 
cool place to cool. When cold take off grease from 
the surface. It is ready for use. E. R. MINER. 



CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP. 

Two tablespoonfuls of barley, i pint of milk, yolks 
of two eggs, I pint of veal or white stock, salt and 
pepper to taste. Scald the barley, drain, cover with 
fresh boiling water and boil three hours. Strain. Put 
milk and stock on to boil, add the barley, salt and pep- 
per. Beat the , yolks lightly, put them in the soup 
tureen, pour over the boiling soup and serve at once. 

E. R. MINER. 



14 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP. 

One-half peck of spinach, mashed thoroughly. 
Then put on to cook, using only what water adheres 
to it. Let it stew until tender, about lo or 15 min- 
utes. Rub through the colander. Then take a pint of 
beef stock, i pint of cream or milk, season with salt 
and pepper, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour 
and butter rubbed well together. Then stir all into 
the spinach, put through the colander a second time ; 
let it come to the boil a; second time. Chicken, peas 
and celery are very nice for this soup. 

MRS. R. R. QUAY, 

BEAN SOUP. 

Wash a pint of beans and put over a slow fire in 
three pints of cold water. As soon as they boil turn 
this water off. Then put on one gallon of cold water 
and a lean beef soup bone. Boil three and a half 
hours. Throw in a half dozen cloves, as many alspice 
and black pepper berries and a slice of onion. Strain 
and serve with crackers. 

MRS. T. L. KENNEDY. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Cut four large potatoes into dice, boil twentv 
minutes in a little water. Add three pints of rich 
milk, salt and cayenne pepper. Boil slowly twenty 
minutes, then add a heaping tablespoonful of butter 
and one of flour rubbed together. 

MRS. T. L. KENNEDY. 

CORN SOUP. 

Grate carefully one pint of fresh corn, being care- 
ful not to get any of the cob in, add to the corn one 
pint of water, and cook fifteen minutes. When ten- 
der, add one quart of boiling milk (morning's milk 
preferred), three tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed 
smooth with one tablespoonful of flour, and a little 
salt. Let it boil up, then serve with crisp butter 
wafers. MRS. WM. LOYD. 



Sotips. 15 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP. 

One pint of grated corn, 3 pints of boiling water, 
or better, veal stock, i pint of hot milk, 3 tablespoon- 
fills of butter, 2 even tablespoonfuls of flour, yolks of 
two eggs, salt and pepper. Put the cobs from which 
you have removed the corn in the boiling water or 
stock, boil slowly half an hour. Remove them, put 
in the ,corn and boil till very soft (about twenty min- 
utes), then press through a sieve. Season and let 
simmer while you rub the butter and flour together ; 
a.dd this to the soup and stir it constantly until it 
thickens. Now add the boiling milk, cook one min- 
ute, then add the beaten yolks, and serve imme- 
diatelv. E. R. MINER. 



CORN SOUP. 

Split the grains of one dozen ears of corn, and 
scrape. Boil the cobs for ten minutes in enough wa- 
ter to cover them. Strain this water and use one 
quart. Add to it slowly one quart cream, then the 
corn. Season and cook fifteen minutes. Strain again. 
Milk can be used instead of cream, thickened with one 
tablespoonful each butter and flour rubbed together. 
Serve with a spoonful of whipped cream and half 
dozen freshly popped pop corn. 

MRS. CLARENCE HALL CORBUS. 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

One pint strained juice of tomatoes, i pint milk, J^ 
teaspoonful (scant) soda, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
salt and a dash of cayenne pepper. Mix a little flour 
smooth with water and add. Bread spread with but- 
ter and cut in little squares and set in oven until nicely 
browned — add these just before serving. Have heated 
very hot the pint of milk and add to soup and serve at 
once. MRS. SWAN. 



16 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart sliced tomatoes, i teaspoonful sugar, i 
tablespoonful cornstarch, J4 teaspoonful soda, i quart 
of milk, butter size of an egg, pepper and salt to taste. 
Boil the tomatoes until soft, strain and add seasoning. 
Heat the milk in a kettle and when near the boiling 
point add the tomatoes very slowly,, having first thick- 
ened them with the cornstarch, made smooth with the 
butter. Serve at once. 

MRS. FREDERIC S. MERRICK. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart of milk, i pint can of tomatoes or one 
pint piewed tomatoes, i large tablespoonful of butter, 
I bay leaf, i blade of mace, sprig of parsley, i tea- 
spoonful sugar, j4 teaspoonful baking soda, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Put the tomatoes on to stew with 
bay leaf, parsley and mace ; let them stew for fifteen 
minutes. Put the milk on to boil in a double kettle. 
Rub the butter and flour together, add to the boiling 
milk and stir constantly until it thickens. Now press 
the tomatoes through a sieve, and if ready to use the 
soup add sugar and soda to the tomatoes and then 
the boiling milk ; stir and serve immediately. It must 
not go on the fire after the mixing of milk with the to- 
matoes or it will separate. If you are not ready, let 
them stand on the fire separately and mix when ready. 

E. R. MINER. ■ 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

One cup dried peas, 3 pints cold water, i table- 
spoonful butter, I tablespoonful flour, J/^ teaspoonful 
sugar, I teaspoonful salt, i saltspoonful white pepper. 
Pick over and wash the peas, soak over night or for 
several hours in cold water. Put them on to boil in 
three pints of fresh cold water, and let them simmer 
until dissolved, adding enough more water, as it boils 
away, to keep three pints of liquid in the kettle. When 
soft rub through a strainer and put on to boil again. 



Soups. 17 

add either water, stock, milk or cream to make the 
consistency you wish. It should be more like a 
puree than a soup. Cook the butter and flour to - 
gether, and add to the strained soup when boiling. 
Add the salt and pepper and when it has simmered t en 
minutes serve. It must always be strained, and thick- 
ened with the flour and butter, or it will separate as 
it cools. MRS. \' L. BRADFORD. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Boil I quart black or red beans all day. Strain 
through a colander and then through a fine sieve. 
The next day add to them one quart of soup stock, 
from which all fat has been removed, pepper and salt, 
boil one hour, \\hen ready to serve add a hard 
boiled egg chopped finelv and i sliced lemon. 

^IRS. T. S. WHITE. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Cut up two large bunches of celery, or the outside 
stalks, too large for the table, keeping in water until 
you have enough ; a slice of onion. Cook in two 
quarts of water for three-quarters of an hour. Rub 
through a colander. You should have a good pint of 
pulp and liquor. Add one quart of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper. Rub 
together one heaping tablespoonful of butter and 
two level scant tablespoonfuls of flour. When the 
milk just comes to the boil stir this in and cook two 
minutes longer. Serve with croutons made by toast- 
ing buttered bread, cut into small sauares before 
toasting. MRS. T. L. KENNEDY. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

One bunch asparagus, i pint of good, white stock, 
I pint cream or milk, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, i table- 
spoonful chopped onions, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, i 
teaspoonful of salt, pepper to taste. Cut the aspara- 
gus in small pieces and put in the stock to boil. Cook 



18 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



butter and onions in frying pan five minutes, then add 
flour and stir till smooth. Put in salt and pepper and 
simmer fifteen minutes. Then rub through sieve, put 
back in stew pan. Have cream hot, add and boil up 
once. MRS. H. T. BARKER. 



CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP. 

Three cups of chicken stock, 2 cups of sweet 
cream, i tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper to 
taste. Thicken the stock with the flour, bring to a 
boil, add the cream, season and serve. 

MRS. FREDERIC S. MERRICK. 



CONSOMME. 

Take good, strong stock, remove all fat from sur- 
face ; for each quart of the stock allow the white and 
shell of one egg, and one tablespoonful of water well 
whipped together. Pour this mixture into a saucepan 
containing the stock, place it over the fire and heat 
the contents gradually, stirring often to prevent the 
egg from sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. Al- 
low it to boil gently until the stock looks perfectly 
clear under the egg, which will rise and float on the 
surface under a thick, white scum. Now remove it 
and pour it into a folded towel laid in a colander set 
over an earthen bowl, allowing it to run through 
without moving or squeezing it. Season with salt if 
needed, and serve very hot. 

MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 



MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

One can or quart of fresh tomatoes, i quart of 
sweet milk, i pinch soda, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste. Melt 
the butter and add the flour, add enough of hot milk 
to make it pour easily, then add this to the rest of the 



Sou-ps. 19 

milk which has been heated in a double boiler. Strain 
tomatoes, put in saucepan and add soda ; after the gas 
has passed off, add the milk to the tomatoes and sea- 
son with pepper aud salt. 

MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 



20 Presbyterian Cook 5oak. 



Soufis. 



21 



22 



Presbyterian Cook Book. ___^^^_ 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 

"So let us noo set in for serious ea.tin', and tackle the inhabi- 
tants of the Great Deep. " — Christopher North. 

BAKED FISH. 

Choose a firm, white fish, or trout. Have it drawn 
and not cut open if possible. Wash thoroughly and 
wipe dry. Stuff with bread crumbs moistened with 
melted butter, seasoned with salt, pepper and a few 
raisins. Tie or sew up. Salt, pepper and dredge with 
flour. Lay strips of very thin breakfast bacon all over 
the fish. Bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes ; 
or, omit the bacon and steam the same length of 
time. Serve with a sauce of drawn butter. 

SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Two tablespoonfuls cornstarch', two of butter rub- 
bed together and stirred into a pint of boiling milk 
until smooth and creamy, add salt, cayenne pepper 
and chopped parsley. 

MRS. LIVINGSTON KENNEDY. 

FISH IN INDIVIDUAL CASES. 

Salmon or any cold cooked fish may be daintily 
prepared by picking apart carefully with a fork and 
pouring over it a dressing made of a spoonful each of 
flour and butter rubbed together and cooked in a 
teacup of either boiling milk or water. Season 
highly with salt and red pepper. When cold mix 
with the fish. Add an egg if you like. Arrange neat- 
ly on shells, in ramekins or in small sauce dishes, and 
cover with fine bread crumbs and a bit of butter on 
each one. Set in a dripping pan and bake about 
twenty minutes, or till nicely browned. 

MRS. T. L. KENNEDY. 



24 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



BAKED FISH. 

Dressing — One cup of bread crumbs, i table- 
spoonful of melted butter, salt and pepper to taste, a 
little parsley chopped fine. Cleanse and dry fish thor- 
oughly, fill with dressing, sew or skewer,' put in pan, 
with small strips of bacon on top, and half pint of 
water. Bake until tender. For a fish of four pounds 
it will take about one hour to bake. Baste often. 

Sauce — Two tablespoonfuls of butter and i of 
flour, Yz pint of boiling water, 1/2 teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix butter and flour to a smooth paste in a bowl, 
place the bowl over the fire in a pan of boiling water, 
add the >4 pint of boiling water gradually, stir until 
it thickens ; add the salt, and a dash of red pepper, 
then the well-beaten yolk of an egg and a little 
lemon juice. HARRIET. 



ESCALLOPED SALMON. 

Carefully remove all bones and skin from a can of 
salmon steak. Pick into small pieces. Stir in two 
well-beaten eggs, a teacupful of bread crumbs, a large 
spoonful of butter, cut into tiny bits. Salt and pep- 
per. Add two teacupfuls of milk. Bake half an hour 
in a quick oven. A slice of onion cut very fine, is an 
improvement for those who like the flavor. Serve as 
soon as it is done. 

MRS. LIVINGSTON KENNEDY. 



ESCALLOPED SALMON. 

Drain one can of salmon and remove the bones and 
skin. Place in a pudding dish, and pour over three- 
fourths of a pint thin cream, in which has been dis- 
solved one teaspoonful cornstarch, season with salt 
and pepper. Sprinkle over the top bread crumbs dot- 
ted with bits of butter, and brown in the oven. 

MRS. FREDERIC S. MERRICK. 



fish and Oysters. 25 

TURBOT. 

Three pounds white fish, ^ pound of flour, ^4 
pound butter, i^ pints milk. 2 eggs. Melt the butter 
with the milk, add the flour made smooth with a little 
milk. When cool add the well beaten eggs, pepper 
and salt to taste. Steam the fish and pick in small 
pieces, stir into the mixture, put into a pudding dish 
and bake one-half hour. 

MRS. FREDERIC S. MERRICK. 



TURBOT. 

Take a white fish, steam till tender, take out 
bones, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. For dress- 
ing, heat a pint of milk, and thicken with a quarter 
pound of flour ; when cool, add two eggs and a quar- 
ter pound of butter, and season with onion and pars- 
ley (very little of each) ; put in the baking dish a layer 
of fish, then a layer of sauce, till full, cover the top 
with bread crumbs, and bake half an hour. If prefer- 
red, bake in ramekins. L. M. WHITE. 



DUTCH SAUCE. (For Fish.) 

One-half teaspoonful flour, 2 eggs, yolks only, 4 
tablespoonfuls btitter, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 
tablespoonfuls of water, juice of J/2 lemon, salt to 
taste. Put all the ingredients (except the lemon 
juice), into a stew pan. Set it on the fire, stirring 
continually until thick, but must not boil. Add lemon 
juice and serve. EMILY O. T. MAYER. 



SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One can salmon, J4 cup bread crumbs, 2 eggs, salt 
and pepper to suit taste. Moisten the crumbs with 
milk, take out the bones and mash the fish, stir all 
together. Make into cakes, dip in white of egg and 
fry in fat. MRS. ALVERSON. 



26 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One quart of oysters, i quart of cracker crumbs, 
scant, crushed, not rolled, i pint of rich milk. Drain 
the oysters. Put a layer of crumbs in dish, one of 
oysters, another of crumbs, then season plentifully 
with butter, pepper and salt. Proceed in this way, 
having the last layer crumbs with plenty of butter in 
bits on the top. Pour over the milk, let stand Yi hour 
and bake. ELIZABETH MINER. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Oysters are to be used in this recipe, but any other 
meat is just as delicious. Two dozen oysters, i cup- 
ful oyster juice, i cupful cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
salt and pepper to taste and a dash of cayenne pepper. 
Scald the oysters in their liquor until plump. Put 
into the chafing dish the two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
when melted stir in carefully the flour and cook, but 
do not brown. Stir in carefully the oyster juice, when 
perfectly smooth add the cream and seasoning. Ex- 
tinguish the flame and when a little cooled stir in the 
beaten yolks. Relight the lamp and stir until thick- 
ened; then put in the oysters, stir for a minute and 
serve. Nice for oyster patties or on toast. 

MRS. MYLER. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Put three or four oysters in a wine glass, add ^ 
teaspoonful of salt, Y^ teaspoonful of grat .d horserad- 
ish, I tablespoonful of lemon'juice, 3 drops of tobasco 
sauce, I pinch of mace. Stir and then put on top i 
tablespoon of red castsup and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
shaved ice and a sprig of celery. 

A. C. KENNEDY. 

CREAMED OYSTER TOAST. 

Wash and pick over one quart of standard oys- 
ters. Heat to the boil one pint and a half of rich milk 
or milk and cream. Add three tablespoonfuls of flour 



Fish and Oysters. 27 

and the same amount of butter, one level teaspoonful 
of salt and a little red pepper. Throw in your oysters 
and as soon as they plump up and ruffle pour over 
slices of hot buttered toast. A. C. KENNEDY. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Parboil one pint and a half of oysters, drain and 
cut in small pieces (do not chop). Make a sauce of ^4 
cup butter, >^ cup flour, i cup oyster liquor and J4 
cup of cream, season with one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and salt, celery salt and paprica to taste. Add 
one egg slightly beaten and the oysters ; cool, shape, 
egg and bread crumb and fry in deep fat. Drain on 
soft paper. j\IRS. W. C. McKINNEY. 

BISQUE OF OYSTERS. 

One pint of oysters, i pint of milk, i tablespoonful 
of butter, i tablespoonful flour, yolk of one Qg^, salt 
and pepper to taste. Drain the oysters adding to the 
liquor sufficient cold water to make one cup of liquid. 
Chop half of the oysters fine. Bring the liquor to a 
boil, skim, add the chopped oysters and simmer ten 
minutes. Scald the milk, rub the butter and flour to- 
gether until smooth, add to the milk and stir until it 
thickens. Add the whole oysters to the oyster liquor, 
and, as soon as their edges curl, remove all from the 
fire. Add the beaten yolk of the egg to the njilk, take 
it once from the fire and mix with the oysters and 
their liquor. Season and serve at once. 

MRS. CHAS. A. BARKER. 



28 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



Fish and Oysters. 



29 




Presbyterian Cook Book. 

Fred W. Duerr, 

Dealer in all hindls of 

Fresh and 
Salt Meats, 

923 Third <A venue, 

New Brighton, Pa. 

Telephone 88. 



FOR CHOICE, PURE 
SWEETMEATS, ICES AND ICE CREAMS, 

VISIT 
WETZEL'S CANDY KITCHEN, NEW BRIGHTON, PA. 

Renting a Specialty. Insurance and Real Estate, 

W. W. WILSON, 

Notary Public, 

U28 Third Avenue, 

Surety Bonds. New Brighton, Pa. 

GRAND SHOWING OF FLOOR 
COVERINGS 1902. 

We will be glad to show you oui" line. 
I r> PCPPPlTT 1010 SEVENTH AVENUE, 

J. \J. rcr\r\wi i, beaver falls. 



watches, diamonds, 
Jewelry. 



EYES EXAMINED FREE 



F. M. LANGNECKER, 

JEWELER AND OPTICIAN, 



930 THIRD AVENUE, 



NEW BRIGHTON. 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 

" Yet smelt roast meat, beheld a. huge fire shine. 
And cooks in motion Tuith their clean arms bared." 

— Byron. 

BROWN STEW. 

Two pounds of round steak, cut in two-inch pieces, 
and dredged with flour, having cut off all the fat. 
Throw the fat in a saucepan and try, out, add a sliced 
onion ; when brown add the meat, turn till nicely 
brown, then add boiling water enough to cover, sim- 
mer slowly 3 hours. Do not brown the meat hard 
and be sure it does not boil. 

MRS. T. SIDNEY WHITE. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING FOR ROAST BEEF. 

One pint of milk, 3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, 2 cups of flour, salt. Lay the beef on a 
grating or several sticks laid across the dripping pan. 
Three-fourths of an hour before it is dor^e, mix the 
pudding and pour into the pan. Continue to roast the 
beef, the drippings meanwhile falling on the batter 
below. When both are done, cut the pudding into 
squares and lav around the meat when dished. If 
there is much fat in the pan, before putting in the 
pudding pour some of it off. 

MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

Take a flank or round steak, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, then make a plain filling and spread it on the 
meat, roll it up and tie closely. Steam for one hour 
and then put in oven to brown. 

MRS. E. AUTENREITH. 



32 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

One and one-half pounds of round steak, i quart 
of flour, I teacupful of chopped suet, pepper and salt. 
Make paste of flour, suet and salt. Line a bowl, keep- 
ing enough paste to cover top. Cut the meat into 
small pieces, put into bowl, sprinkling with a little 
pepper, salt and flour. Fill up bowl with cold water, 
put on top, tie up in a cloth and boil steadily for three 
hours. MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

CANNELON OF BEEF. 

Mix well together the following : One pound 
chopped beef, 2 ounces butter, J/2 teaspoonful salt, ]A, 
teaspoonful white pepper, yolk of i &%%, 10 drops 
onion juice, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, the 
grated rind of Y^ lemon, form in a roll and bake in 
pie crust. Serve with brown gravy. 

MRS. JOHN READ MINER. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Three pounds of raw beef (round) chopped fine, 
3 cups of sweet milk, i egg, i cup of bread crumbs, 
I tablespoonful salt, i teaspoonful of pepper. Bake 
two hours. This should not be made into a roll, but 
pressed into a small baking pan, and when done 
turned out on a platter. 

MRS. R. L. KENAH, JR. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Two pounds of ground beef, J4 pound of ham, 
beat 2 eggs, roll 5 soda crackers fine, Yz cup of sweet 
milk, scant i tablespoon of butter, salt and pepper, 
little sage and part of egg to put around loaf. 

MRS. T. J. FIDDLER. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Three pounds beef chopped fine, 3 eggs beaten 
together, 6 crackers rolled fine, i tablespoonful salt, 
one teaspoonful pepper, i tablespoonful melted but- 



Meats and Poultry. 33 



ter, sage to taste. Mix well and make like a loaf of 
bread ; put a little water and bits of butter in the pan, 
baste occasionally, bake an hour and a quarter. Can 
be eaten either hot or cold. 

MRS. JOHN M. BOYD. 

POTTED BEEF. 

One beef shank with sufficient water to cover. 
Boil until very tender. Remove bone and sinew. 
Chop meat fine, and replace in the pot with the liquor 
(which should be one quart.) Simmer gently and 
add salt, pepper and mace to suit taste. When cold 
cut in very thin slices. This can be kept a good while 
bv seasoning high and packing hard in a stone jar. 
Set the jar in a cold place and cover closely. (From 
Miss Mary McCombs). H. M. READ. 

VEAL LOAF. 

' Boil 3 pounds of veal, cook juice to a gill. Let it 
cool, then add i teaspoon of salt, ^ of pepper, 2 raw 
eggs. Roll in 8 tablespoonfuls of cracker crumbs and 
.pour over it 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. Bake 
one-half hour. EMMA C. WINANS. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three and one-half pounds veal minced fine, 3 
well beaten eggs, ij^ tablespoonfuls salt,i table- 
spoonful pepper, i tablespoonful nutmeg, 4 small 
soda crackers rolled fine, 3 tablespoonfuls cream or 
milk, butter size of an egg. Stir well together, form 
into a loaf and bake two hours, basting often. 

MRS. E. P. TOWNSEND. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three and one-half pounds veal, ^ pound pork, 
4 crackers, ij4 tablespoonfuls salt, '/z tablespoonful 
pepper, ^ of a niitmeg, 3 tablespoonfuls milk or 



34 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



cream, 3 eggs beaten light, butter size of an egg, a , 
little scrape of onion. Stir all together well and bake 
in oven two hours. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Two pounds of veal, cook tender, add % pound 
fresh bacon cut fine, 2 hard boiled eggs cut fine, pep- 
per and salt to suit the taste, a little nutmeg, I small 
onion minced, two eggs' beat in and ^ cup cream, 
I cup stale bread crumbs and a little parsley. 

MRS. FISHER. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Two and one-half pounds of veal, 2 cups of crack- 
ers, 2 slices of stale bread, 3 eggs, J4 cup of milk, 
season with pepper and salt. Bake two hours. 

MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

GOOD VEAL STEW. 

Have the butcher crack well a shank of veal. 
Stew it slowly for two, hours, then season with salt, 
pepper and butter. Have at least 2 quarts of liquor 
around it. Drop in the potatoes you need for din- • 
ner, allowing 30 minutes to cook. Twenty minutes 
before serving drop in dumplings made as follows : 
Sift in a bowl one pint of flour and one tablespoonful 
of baking powder and half a teaspoonful of salt. Wet 
up with milk to a very stiff batter. Dip your spoon 
in the boiling broth, then take up a spoonful of bat- 
ter and plunge into it. In this way the batter will 
not stick to the spoon. Cover tightly and steam 20 
minutes. If your broth has cooked down to less 
than two quarts add boiling water. 

MRS. CALDWELL. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Get a large kidney roast of veal, have the butcher 
separate and crack the joints, but not cut off the ribs. 
Take out most of the fat about the kidney, wipe well 



Meats and Poultry. 35 

and salt and pepper. Make a dressing of stale bread 
cfumbs, a few raisins, a little chopped onion, a little 
sage, moisten with melted butte.r and a beaten egg. 
Lay your dressing in a good sized roll along the back 
bone and about the kidnev ; turn the ribs over and 
tie in a neat roll. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour 
and put a few pieces of butter over it. Roast two 
hours, basting everv i S minutes. 

' MRS. T. L. KENNEDY. 

VEAL PIGEON. 

Spread 3 pounds of veal steak with dressing made 
like stufifing for turkey and roll up and tie with a 
cord. Bake two hours, bastiner often. Good hot or 
cold. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of veal, 3 eggs, J4 cup cracker 
crumbs, butter size of an egg, a little nutmeg, 2 table- 
spoonfuls cream, pepper and salt to taste. Mix all 
together and form in loaves. Bake ij^ hours. Baste 
while baking. 

MRS. R. S. EBERHART. 

PRESSED VEAL. 

Put a knuckle of veal in a pan with enough water 
to just cover. Let simmer until it drops from the 
bones. Then chop fine and return to the water re- 
maining in the pan with pepoer and salt to taste and 
a little poultry seasoning. Let boil 5 minutes, then 
turn out into a mould. MRS. HOLMES. 

VEAL SCALLOP. 

Chop cold roast or stewed veal fine, put a layer 
in the bottom of a buttered pudding dish, season with 
salt and pepper. Next a layer of cracker crumbs. 
Strew bits of butter upon it and wet with a little milk, 
then more veal, seasoned as before; then cracker 
crumbs with butter and milk. When the dish is full, 



36 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



wet well with gravy or broth, dilute with warm water. 
Spread over all a thick layer of crackers seasoned 
with salt, wet into a paste with milk and bound with 
a beaten egg or two, if the dish be large. Stick but- 
ter bits t'hickly over it ; invert a tin pan so as to cover 
all and keep in the steam, and bake, if small, half an 
hour ; three-quarters will suffice for a large dish. 
Remove the cover lo minutes before it is served, and 
brown. MRS. W. C. SIMPSON. 

PRESSED HAM AND VEAL. 

Three pounds veal, 2 pounds ham; boil each sepa- 
rately until tender ; choo verv fine (better put through 
a chopper) and moisten each with its own liquor until 
very soft. Put a layer of veal in the bottom (the 
half of the quantity) of a long, narrow mold or pan ; 
then, place lengthwise on that a row of hard boiled 
eggs ; cover them with the ham and press in closely 
to the eggs ; then the balance of the veal and press 
down and cover with a piece of cloth. Put in a cool 
place to harden. MRS. L. H. SCHWEPPE. 

VEAL BALLS. 

Mince fine cold veal, add a few bread crumbs, an 
egg and pepper and salt ; mold into balls and fry in 
butter. When brown remove from the pan, make a 
rich cream gravy and turn over them. Serve on a 
hot platter. MRS. FREDERIC S. MERRICK. 

TO BAKE HAM. 

Wash and soak in water over night. Make a 
paste of I pint of flour and >4 pint of water, put ham 
into a baking pan and spread the paste over thickly. 
Pour into the pan i pint of hot water. Put into a 
medium oven and bake 5 hours, basting frequently. 
When tender lift off the paste and top skin and let 
stand until perfectly cold before slicing. 

ELLEN T. EDGAR. 



Meats and Poultry. 37 



BOILED HAM. 

Pour boiling water over the ham and let stand 
until cool enough to wash, scrape clean, put into a 
boiler with cold water enough to cover ; bring to the 
boiling point and then let it simmer steadilv for 6 or 
7 hours (if the ham weighs 12 pounds), or till tender 
when pierced with a fork ; be careful to keep water 
at boiling point and not to allow it to go much above 
it. Turn the ham once or twice in the water ; when 
done put into a baking pan to skin ; dip the hands in 
cold water, take the skin between the fingers and peel 
as you would an orange ; set in a moderate oven, 
placing the lean side of the ham downward, and if yon 
like stick a few cloves over the top ; bake i hour. The 
baking brings out a quantity of fat, leaving the meat 
much more delicate, and in warm weather it will keep 
in a dry cool place a long time. 

MRS. JOHN P. SHERWOOD. 



SAUSAGE ROLLS. 

Make crust as for biscuit and put a piece of sau- 
sage inside and bake. MRS. ALVERSON. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One pint fine chopped cooked meat, i cup cream 
or milk, 3 tablespoonfuls butter, i tablespoonful 
flour, I level tablespoonful salt, Yn teaspoonful pep- 
per, 3 eggs, I teaspoonful chopped parsley. Cream 
the flour and butter and put into the milk, which has 
been heated, stir unitl it begins to thicken; then add 
the chicken, which has been seasoned with the pep.- 
per, salt and parsley. Boil for about 2 minutes, stir- 
ring all the time, then add half the beaten eggs and 
boil another minute. Pour on a platter and let stand 
2 or 3 hours in a cold place, roll into cone shape and 
dip into the other half of the egg and fry in hot lard. 
MRS. E. P. TOWNSEND. 



38 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Meat of I chicken chopped fine, i pint of boiled 
cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour ; rub butter and flour together until very smooth 
and stir into the boiling cream until it thickens ; add 
a little salt, remove from stove and stir in the chopped 
chicken. Now; add i tablespoonful sherry v^rine. Set 
aside to cool. Make into balls and fry in hot lard. 
One teaspoonful chopped onion and i of chopped 
parsley adds to the flavor. 

MRS. HENRY A. HUTCHINSON. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

For 18 croquettes use Ij4 pints chicken chopped 
very fine (it is better to put through a grinder), 3 gills 
cream, 3 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 level tablespoonfuls 
flour, 3 teaspoonfuls salt, yi teaspoonful white pep- 
per, I tablespoonful onion juice, 3 eggs, crumbs and 2 
eggs for breading. Add the seasoning to the chicken. 
Put the cream in a frying pan and place where it will 
heat slowly. Stir the flour and butter until smooth 
and add to the cream when it boils. Stir smooth, 
then add chicken. Stir well and simmer 3 minutes. 
Add eggs well beaten quickly into the boiling mix- 
ture, and remove from the fire immediately. Pour 
on a platter to cool ; it should stand 2 or 3 hours. 
Shape into croquettees, then bread and fry in deep 
lard. AMELIA TOWNSEND WILDE. 



CHICKEN LOAF. 

Boil until meat falls from the bones. Strain and 
put the liquor again in a sauceoan, reduce it to 1J/2 
pints ; then add Y^^ box gelatine (soaked) . Put a few 
slices of hard boiled egg on the bottom of a mold ; 
fill the mold with alternate layers of light and dark 
meat. Season the liquor and pour over the meat and 
set away to harden. MRS. W. C. McKINNEY. 



Meats and Poultry. 39 



CREAMED CHICKEN. 

One large chicken, 4 sweetbreads, i can mush- 
rooms. Boil'chicken and sweetbreads and when cold 
cut in dice. Cream together four large tablespoon- 
fuls butter and 5 level tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir 
into a quart of boiling cream, stirring until thickened. 
Add a pinch of salt and pepper. Pour over the 
chicken, sweetbreads and mushrooms, mix, cover with 
bread crumbs. Bake 20 minutes. 

MRS. W. C. McKINNEY. 



CHICKEN LOAF. 

Boil a fowl until the meat falls from the bones, 
strain and put the liquor again in a saucepan ; reduce 
it to jYz pints, and add ^ box of soaked gelatine. 
Lay a few slices of hard boiled egg on the bottom of a 
plain mold ; fill the mold with alternate layers of dark 
and white meat of the chicken. Season the liquor 
and pour it over the meat in the mold and set it away 
to harden; it will become a jelly. 

MRS. H. T. BARKER. 



CHICKEN CUSTARDS. 

To I quart of chicken broth, from which all fat has 
been removed, add 3 eggs beaten separately. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper and bake in custard cup 
or ramekins which are well sprinkled with chopped 
parsley. Set the cups in a pan of water and bake or 
steam 20 minutes. 

MRS. LIVINGSTON KENNEDY. 



CHICKEN AND HAM SANDWICHES. 

Four cups of chicken to I cup of ham; salt and 
pepper to taste ; add mustard and tomato catsup and 
enough stock to mix to a paste. Spread between 
slices of buttered bread. E. T. EDGAR. 



40 Presbyterian Cook Booh. 



BLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN. 

Clean and cut up as for stewing a chicken. Select 
a porcelain or granite saucepan ; put into it i large 
tablespoonful of butter; when melted add J4 table- 
spoonful of flour ; mix well and add i cup or J4 pint 
of stock, or water; stir continually until it begins to 
boil; if chicken has not been seasoned add salt and 
pepper to taste ; now put in the chicken, put lid on 
and simmer gently until tender. When done dish on 
a heated meat plate. Have ready the well-beaten 
yolk of an ^%^; remove the saucepan from the fire; 
add the yolk to the sauce, stir quickly and strain over 
chicken. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and 
serve at once. One-half teaspoonful of onion juice 
may be added to sauce before the chicken if liked. 

L. H. SCHWEPPE. 



BAKED CHICKEN. 

Split a chicken down the back, season well with 
salt and pepper, cover well with soft butter and dredge 
thickly on- both sides with fine dry bread crumbs. 
Cook in a hot oven about half an hour or until ten- 
der. A cream sauce can be poured over this. 

L. H. SCHWEPPE. 



PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil a chicken in a small quantity of water with 
a little salt, and when thoroughly done take all meat 
from the bones, removing the skin and keeping the 
light meat separate from the dark ; chop not too fine 
and season to taste with salt and pepper. Take a 
mold, put in the dark meat, then the white ; add the 
boiled down liquor, put on a heavy weight and put 
away to cool and harden. Boned turkey can be used 
the same way, slicing instead of chopping. 

L. H. SCHWEPPE. 



J/ra/s and PouJtrw 



TURKEY ON TOAST. 

Shred the meat from the bones of the carcass of 
a turkey and mix with the filKng. Have a pan of tur- 
key gravy, add the turkey and heat thoroughly. Toast 
enough bread to Hne a large meat platter, then pour 
the turkey over the toast and serve while hot. 

:\IRS. L. S. OLIVER. 



CHICKEN POT PIE. 

Four cups of flour, i cup lard^ a little salt, mix with 
cold water and line pan with paste ; boil until tender 
a large chicken with 3 or 4 potatoes, add salt and pep- 
per to taste ; then fill pan alternately with potatoes 
and chicken ; put crust on top and bake slowly i hour. 

^ilRS. L. S. OLIVER. 



PIGEON PIE. 

Six or 7 pigeons ; i pound pork, very fat ; J4 dozen 
small potatoes, cut about like dice. Boil the pigeons 
with the pork cut very small and when tender remove 
the bones as much as possible. Then add potatoes 
and cook till they are done. Line a deep dish with 
pastry and bake till half done. Then put in pigeons, 
etc., with some thin narrow strips of the pastry added ; 
put on a top crust and bake till well browned. 

:mrs. erxest mayer. 



CROQUETTES OF SWEET BREADS. 

Take four veal sweetbreads, soak them for an hour 
in cold salted water, first removing the pipes and 
membranes ; then put in boiling salted water with a 
tablespoonful of vinegar and cook 20 minutes ; then 
drop them in cold water to harden. Now chop them 
up almost to paste, season with salt, pepper and a 
teaspoonful of grated onion. Add the beaten yolks of 
3 raw eggs, i tablespoonful of butter, J^ cup of cream 



42 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

and enough fine cracker crumbs to make it stiff 
enough to mold in shape. Have a frying pan half full 
of fat over fire, roll the croquettes in beaten tgg and 
then in cracker crumbs, and fry a nice golden brown. 
Serve hot with sliced lemon or pastry. 

MRS. H. T. BARKER. 

BREAD SAUCE FOR GAME OR POULTRY. 

Put I pint milk to boil with enough onion to 
strongly flavor. When flavored enough strain and 
pour over i cup finely crumbled bread crumbs and 
about 3 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt and red pepper 
to taste ; add a very few whole black peppers. Boil 
up once, let it stand an hour and then serve with the 
poultry or game. Can be made the day before and 
heated over. EMILY O. T. MAYER. 



Meats and Poultry. 43 



44 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 

" The happy combination." 

—Sir Walter Scott. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

One chicken cut fine, as much celery as chicken, 
season with salt and pepper. 

DRESSING FOR SALAD. 

One cup vinegar, i cup rich cream, 3 eggs, 2 level 
teaspoonfuls mustard. Put mustard and vinegar to- 
gether, beat in the eggs then cream. Put in double 
boiler and cook till consistency of boiled custard, stir- 
ring all the time. MRS. E. P. TOWNSEND. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

One good-sized year-old chicken boiled whole with 
a quarter of a pound of lean pork. Salt while cook- 
ing. When thoroughly cold oick the meat from the 
bones and cut about half an inch long 3 large heads 
of celery cut the same size. Throw your celery into 
ice water until ready to use. Shake dry. Salt and 
mix with chicken. Mix with salad dressing enough 
to cover but not make slopoy. Put a small spoonful 
of dressing on each serving. Enough for 12 people. 
MRS. LiyiNGSTON KENNEDY. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

To one large chicken (an old one is best) take 3 
pounds of tenderloin pork, boil until tender, then 
shred; take enough chopped celery to make one- 
third of this amount, add meats from i pound of un- 



46 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

shelled English walnuts, mix toeether thoroughly. 
Dressing: Yolks of 4 eggs, 5 heaping teaspoonfuls 
of sugar, I teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful mustard, a 
small pinch of cayenne pepper. Mix thoroughly, 
then add olive oil by dropping i drop at a time, heat- 
ing thoroughly until it becomes stiff as cake batter, 
thin by using i cup of cider vinegar. This will serve 
20 persons. MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two steamed cold chickens cut fine, good size ; 9 
hard boiled eggs, just yolks ; 2 large heads of celery, 
cut fine ; y-i pint melted butter, or if preferred, olive 
oil; J4 pint vinegar, i gill mixed mustard, i small 
teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, i small teaspoonful of 
salt. After chickens and celery are cut fine set awav ; 
then with wooden spoon mash the yolks of eggs and 
add melted butter or oil and mustard, vinegar, pepper 
and salt. Stir a long-time, the longer the better, and 
5 minutes before using mix with chicken and celery. 

MRS. S. M. CLARKE. 

WALDO SALAD. 

One pint diced apples, i pint celery, i pint English 
walnuts, juice of i lemon, Mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce or oranges. 

MRS. J. W. HOLLAND. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel 5 medium-sized tomatoes, remove thin slices 
from top of each and take out seeds and pulp. 
Sprinkle inside slightly with salt, invert and let stand 
half an hour. Drain seeds and pulp, mix with one- 
fourth cucumbers cut in dice, one-fourth cup cold 
cooked peas, one-fourth cup chopped pickle and two 
tablespoonfuls of capers. Drain as dry as possible, 
then add one-half cup cold chicken cut in small dice ; 
mix with Mayonnaise and fill tomatoes, sprinkle with 
finely chopped parsley and place each on a lettuce leaf. 
Serve very cold. EMMA C. WINANS. 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 47 

TOMATO JELLY. 

Let ^ of a box of gelatine soak in y^ cup of cold 
water. Cook a can of tomatoes, half an onion, a stalk 
of celer}', a bay leaf, 2 cloves, a teaspoonful of salt and 
a dash of paprica, lo minutes. Add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of tarragin vinegar and the gelatine ; stir until dis- 
solved, strain and turn into one large mold or several 
small ones. Serve with green vegetables or with 
meat as a salad. EMMA C. WI-NANS. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

Stew 3 pints of tomatoes seasoned highly with 
salt and pepper, adding a grain of cayenne pepper and 
a tiny bay leaf. Have soaking a half box of gelatine. 
Strain the tomatoes, return to fire and add beaten 
white of I egg to clear it. Stir i minute, add gelatine 
and strain through ilannel into mold, when chilled 
turn out of mold and serve on lettuce with a bit of 
mild cream salad dressing on top. 

MRS. CLARENCE HALL CORBUS. 

TOMATO ASPIC. 

Cover Yi box of gelatine with ^ cup of cold water 
and allow it to soak half an hour. Take can of toma- 
toes, strain and put in saucepan with slice of onion, 
two bay leaves, teaspoonful of salt, dash of cayenne 
pepper. Bring mixture to boiling point and add 
gelatine. Mix until dissolved. Add juice of half a 
lemon and strain again. Put into mold and set away 
to thicken. Very nice served individually with 
Mayonnaise dressing. MRS. C. A. PENTZ. 

SAUCE TARTARE. 

Half pint Mayonnaise dressing made with mus- 
tard, I tablespoonful capers, 3 olives, 2 gherkins. 
Chop the olives, gherkins and capers very fine, add 
them to the dressing and it is ready for use. Serve 
with fish or cold meat dishes. 

MRS. W. C. SIMPSON. 



48 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



NUT SALAD. 

One cup chopped celery, i oound English wal- 
nuts, chopped not too fine; >4 cup chopped pars- 
ley, 7 good-sized olives. Mix all together and cover 
M^ith Mayonnaise dressing. A. D. McKIBBEN. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Two parts orange and 2 parts bananas to i of 
pineapple and a very few strawberries ; sweeten to 
taste. 

NUT SALAD. 

Three large apples, 3 stalks celery, i cup hickory 
nuts chopped. Cut apples and celery in small pieces. 
Pour over this a salad dressing. Serve on lettuce 
leaf. MRS. R. S. EBERHART. 

AN ELEGANT SALAD DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful flour, i tablespoonful butter, 
I tablespoonful sugar, i teaspoonful salt, i tea- 
spoonful mustard, pinch of red pepper ; rub all to- 
gether, adding i spoonful of cold water, then the 
yolks of 3 eggs and lastly J4 teacup vinegar. Boil, 
stirring constantly until it thickens and is smooth. 
Set aside to cool. Whip J^ teacup very thick cream 
until it is solid, add this and 2 tablespoonfuls of best 
olive oil to the mixture. This will keep in a cold 
place for a week or longer. A salad need not be 
either troublesome or expensive to be a dainty touch 
to an otherwise plain meal if one has the dressing 
prepared and on hand. A spoonful of crisp celery 
cut in small pieces on a lettuce leaf, or if you have 
none in the house, arranged on a pretty little dish 
or plate, half a hard boiled e.%% cut lengthwise beside 
it and a generous spoonful of the dressing, will temot 
almost any one. Or a Delmonico salad of celery 
and apples with or without nuts well mixed with the 
dressing is little trouble and most appetizing. 



Salads and Salad Dressing's. 49 

SUNDAY EVENING SALAD. 

Is made of whatever the cook has left in the 
cupboard. Often it is a httle mashed potatoes, with 
a little celery or onion minced and mixed through, 
a few peas, 4 or 5 olives or pickles, or a fresh cucum- 
ber cut and mixed in, and over all the mantle of 
charity of the good dressing, the enjoyment of which 
is the salad's only excuse for being. 

MRS. T. L. KENNEDY. 

SLAW. 

Two eggs, well beaten; i teaspoonful dry mus- 
tard, I teaspoonful salt, i teaspoonful sugar, J^ tea- 
spoonful flour, j4 teaspoonful black pepper, a little 
cayenne pepper, % of a teacupful vinegar, ^ of a 
teacupful cream or new milk, i tablespoonful butter, 
J^ teaspoonful celery seed. Mix and beat all well 
together and place the mixture in another vessel 
containing boiling water till it is the consistency of 
thick cream ; stir well ; pour hot over cabbage. 

E. R. MINER. 

MOULDED SWEETBREAD AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Simmer one small pair of sweetbreads 20 min- 
utes in salt water with a bit of bay leaf, a slice of 
onion and a blade of mace. Cool and cut into dice. 
There should be ^ of a cup. Soak j4 tablespoonful 
of gelatine in ^ tablespoonful of cold water and dis- 
solve in a tablespoonful and a half of boiling water ; 
add lyi tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and J^ cup of 
cream beaten thick. Add the cubes of sweetbreads 
14 cup of cucumber cubes and salt and pepper to 
taste. Turn into molds to chill and serve on lettuce 
leaves with French dressing. 

EMMA C. WINANS. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Chop I pound of salmon with the same of cel- 
ery. Then cream one teacup of butter, i table- 



50 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

spoonful each of mustard, sugar and lemon juice, i 
teaspoonful of salt and the yolks of 4 hard-boiled 
eggs. Stir in ^ teacupful of vinegar, and pour over 
the salmon and celery. 

MRS. JOHN M. BOYD. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel and slice 3 large cucumbers and sprinkle 
with salt. Let stand 15 or 20 minutes and drain. 
Whip J4 cupful of very thick sweet cream to a stifif 
froth and add sugar and vinegar to taste, with a dash 
of Tobasco sauce. Pour over the cucumbers, mix- 
ing carefully with a silver fork and serve at once. 
MRS. FREDERIC S. MERRICK. 

EGG SALAD. 

Peel carefully i dozen hard-boiled eggs and cut 
a small piece off the white at the end, so they will 
stand alone. Cut in halves and remove the yolks, 
press through a potato masher, mix well and smooth, 
with I tablespoonful melted butter, i saltspoon cel- 
ery extract, one-third cup salad dressing, salt, pep- 
per and vinegar to taste. Refill the whites and serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

MRS. FREDERIC S. MERRICK. 

SWEET BREAD SALAD. 

One pair of sweetbreads stewed and cut in small 
dice, I can of French peas with liquid drained off, i 
large cupful of chopped celery, mix .together and 
season with salt and pepper. Serve with Mayon- 
naise dressing. 

MRS. CLARENCE HALL CORBUS. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Chop 7 or 8 large aonles, pared and cored, rather 
coarse ; cut up i small bunch of celery and mix with 
the apple. Then thoroughly mix with the salad 
dressing. MRS. STUCHFIELD. 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 51 



POTATO SALAD. 

Take cold boiled potatoes, cut into small cubes, 
add 3 hard-boiled eggs, i small onion chopped fine. 
Season with salt, pepper and celery seed. Mix with 
salad dressing made as follows : 2 eggs, i table- 
spoonful salt, I tablespoonful sugar, i tablespoonful 
mustard, i tablespoonful melted butter, i cup sweet 
milk and i cup vinegar. Beat salt, sugar, mustard 
and butter thoroughly ; then add eggs well beaten 
and milk. Place in double boiler, stir constantly. 
and when mixture is well heated add vinegar very 
slowly. MRS. JOHN P. SHERWOOD. ' 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful butter, i teaspoonful of mus- 
tard, I pinch of red pepper, 3 eggs, scant Yz cup vine- 
gar, I teaspoonful salt, cook together and when cool 
add 34 cup of cream whipped. 

"MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One cup of sugar, i tablespoonful of mustard, i 
tablespoonful of salt, i tablespoonful of white pep- 
per, I cup of butter, J4 cup of cream. Mix and melt, 
then add ij4 pints of vinegar mixed with the beaten 
yolks of 8 eggs, i tablespoonful of corn starch. Cook 
until it thickens to a custard. Add a little extract of 
celery if desired. ELIZABETH MINER. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Place y-2. cup of vinegar, Y2, teaspoonful of salt, 
yi\ teaspoonful of pepper and butter the size of a wal- 
nut on the stove and heat to boiling. Mix together 
I teaspoonful of sugar, i teaspoonful of corn starch 
and two-thirds of a teaspoonful of mustard with the 
yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs ; add two raw eggs and 
beat. Place this mixture on the stove and pour 
slowly into it the hot vinegar, stirring all the time ; 
cook till thick. Take from the fire and add four ta- 
blespoonfuls of cream. JEAN McHATTIE. 



52 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One level teaspoonful of salt, i level teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, i level tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sugar, ^ teaspoonful of paprica, 2 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, 2 eggs, ij4 cups olive oil. Thor- 
oughly chill the oil, bowl and spoon to be used 
before beginning the dressing. Separate the eggs. 
Mix the drv ingredients in the bowl, add the yolks 
of eggs ; mix well, then add the oil i drop at a time 
in the beginning. Stir constantly and as the mix- 
ture thickens thin it with the lemon juice and vinegar 
used alternately. Then add more oil till it is all used. 
Last add the whites of eggs beaten till dry. If a 
white dressing is desired use all lemon juice. If 
mixture should curdle it is because oil was added too 
rapidly and may be remedied by taking another yolk 
of t^% and adding curdled mixture slowly to it. 

MRS. H. T. BARKER. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Half pint vinegar, heated; yolks of 8 or 4 whole 
eggs, I small cup of sugar, i tablespoonful of mus- 
tard, I teaspoonful of salt, J4 cup of butter, pinch of 
cayenne pepper ; add to the vinegar i tablespoonful of 
corn starch mixed in a little water, then mix all to- 
gether. Put in a double boiler and boil 5 minutes. 
When cold add i cup of cream. 

LUTA C. NANNAH. 

MUSTARD DRESSING. 

One cup sweet milk, i cup vinegar, 2 eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls mustard, i scant tablespoonful salt, 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, I tablespoonful butter, i teaspoonful 
flour. Mix flour and butter together, add the eggs, 
then mustard, sugar and salt, pour over this the 
heated milk, then pour all into the hot vinegar and 
let come to boil. MRS. J. W. EBAUGH 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 53 

TOMATO CUPS. 

Take as many tomatoes as persons you want to 
serve. Scald and let them get cold and peal; then 
cut off the top and take out the inside and reserve 
for filling. For filling chop i small onion (for 6 
tomatoes), i small cucumber and the reserve toma- 
toes, leaving out the seeds. Mix with salad dressing 
and fill the centers of tomatoes. Serve each on a 
lettuce leaf. MRS. R. S. EBERHART. 



54 PresbytenanJ^^ook^ook^^ 



Salads and Salad Dressings. 55 



56 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



VEGETABLES. 

" There's the 'titers tut ' thegrav^ in 'em, just as thee lik'st 
'em." — George Eliot. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake enough large potatoes for a meal and when 
done take from the oven and cut each potato length- 
wise. Scrape out the potato mash and mix with but- 
ter, salt, pepper and a little milk. Fill the skins with 
the potatoes and put Jaack in the oven for a few min- 
tites until they are a light brown. 

MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Take i quart of tomatoes and put in the bottom 
of a baking pan. Then put in a layer of bread crumbs 
and a little pepper, salt and butter ; then a layer of 
tomatoes and so on until pan is full. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven for half hour. 

MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

POTATO FRITTERS. 

Two cups riced potatoes, 4 tablespoonfuls thin 
cream, i teaspoonful of salt, a dash of grated nut- 
meg, 2 whole eggs, yolks of 2 others, i tablespoonful 
chopped parsley, 3^ cup of cream and J/2 cup of sifted 
flour; add the cream to the potatoes, salt and nut- 
meg, set the bowl in ice water and chill thoroughly; 
when cold, add cream, parsley, eggs (well beaten) 
and lastly the flour. Beat the mixture thoroughly 
and drop from a spoon into a kettle of smoking hot 
oil or fat and frv a delicate brown. 

MRS. FISHER. 



58 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



DUCHESS POTATOES. 

Take 2 cups mashed potatoes, add a gill of hot 
milk and a tablespoonful of butter, season with salt 
and pepper. Beat the potatoes rapidly until they are 
perfectly white and light, then form them into little 
balls, brush them over with milk and brown in oven 
and serve immediately. 

MRS. R. S. EBERHART. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls butter in a stew pan ; to this 
add 2 spoonfuls flour and stir until very smooth but 
not too brown ; then add i pint of cream and stir until 
it thickens ; add pepper and salt to taste ; cut pota- 
toes in small dices. Put a layer of the dressing in 
the baking dish, a layer of the potatoes and then the 
grated cheese, and so on until the dish is full ; then 
put layer of dressing on top and cover with small 
squares of bread. Bake' in a moderate oven until a 
nice brown. 

MRS. HENRY A. HUTCHINSON. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut potatoes into dice, let lay in cold 
water for a time, boil in salted water until tender, 
then drain. Have sauce prepared by mixing together 
2 heaping tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 level table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and i pint of milk. Melt butter, 
being careful not to brown it ; add the flour, mix 
until smooth, then add milk, stir continually until it 
boils; add salt and penoer. Pour over potatoes and 
serve at once. If not quite ready to use sauce, stand 
it over boiling water to keep warm, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent a crust from forming. 

, HARRIET. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Pare and slice raw potatoes very thin, let stand in 
cold water for a time. Drain well. Make sauce as 



Vegetables. 59 



for creamed potatoes, using ij/a tablespoonfuls of 
flour instead of 2. Do not have the sauce too thick, 
as they have to cook longer than when prepared of 
cooked potatoes. Put layer of sauce in baking dish, 
then layer of potatoes, alternating until dish is 
almost full. Sprinkle with bread crumbs with small 
pieces of butter on top. Bake i hour in moderate 
oven. HARRIET. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 

Select 6 medium-sized sweet potatoes, uniform in 
shape, of long oval shape ; wash, pare and cut in half 
lengthwise ; cook in salted boiling water until almost 
tender or about 15 minutes. Mix y^ cup sugar, ^ 
cup of butter and melt in J/2 cup of hot water. Ar- 
range the potatoes in a shallow granite pan and mois- 
ten with sugar mixture. , Place in the oven and baste 
frequently (every 3 minutes) with the syrup. Cook 
until they are covered with a thick brown glaze. Be 
careful not to let them burn. 

MRS. T. E. MARSHELL. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One cup of corn, i cup of flour, 2 eggrs, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, J4 teaspoonful of salt. 

MRS. R. S. KENNEDY. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

One can of com, 2 eggs, butter size of a walnut, 4 
tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, i heaping tablespoonful 
of flour, salt and pepper to taste. Fry in butter. 

MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Take 6 large ears of corn and with a sharp knife 
cut each row of grains in the center, then shave in 
very thin slices. Add to this the yolks of 3 well 
beaten eggs, J4 teaspoonful of melted butter, i table- 



60 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

spoonful of corn starch, i tablespoonful of sugar, I 
tablespoonful of salt, i pint of new milk. Mix well 
and gradually stir in the stifHy beaten whites of the 
eggs. Bake one-half hour. 

ELIZABETH MINER. 

CORN PUDDING. 

One dozen ears or i can corn, i teaspoonful each 
of sugar, flour and salt, i egg beaten with i cup of 
sweet milk, a piece of butter the size of a walnut. 
Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

A. D. McKIBBEN. 

GOOD CdRN PUDDING. 

Grate 8 fine ears of corn or, use i can of Kornlet, 
three eggs beaten separately, whites added last of all ; 
I tablespoonful sugar, i of butter, 2 of flour, i tea- 
spoonful salt, pepper to taste ; add rich milk to fill a 
buttered 2-quart pan, a heaping teaspoonful baking 
powder. Bake % of an hour and serve at once. 
MRS. LIVINGSTON KENNEDY. 

CORN PUDDING. 

One quart milk, 5 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, I tablespoonful of white sugar, i dozen ears 
of corn (large ones) ; grate the corn from the cob, 
beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, put 
the corn and yolks together,' stir hard and add butter, 
then the milk, gradually, beating all the while; next 
the sugar and a little salt, lastly the whites. Bake 
slowly at first, covering the dish, for i hour. Remove 
the cover and brown. MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Choose large firm tomatoes, cut in halves, lay on 
a broiler, sprinkle with salt and pepper, skin side 
down until tender. When done lift to a heated dish, 
put a lump of butter on each slice and serve very hot 

MRS. JOHN BOYD. 



Vegetables. 61 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak two quarts of small white beans over night, 
par-boil them in the morning. Carefully drain ofT all 
. the water and put the beans into the bean jar, add a 
piece of pickled pork 3 inches square, pressing it down 
into the top of the beans 2 tablespoonfuls of molass- 
es, and bake slowly for 16 or 18 hours, adding boiling 
water as often as necessary. If you do not like 
pork a piece of beef suet can be used, addjng 2 table- 
spoonfuls of salt. MRS. F. W. WALKER. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak 3 pints of pea beans in cold water over night. 
In the morning put them into fresh cold water and 
add I teaspoonful of soda and simmer until tender, 
being careful not to let them boil enough to break. 
When soft turn them into a colander and pour cold 
water through them. Put them in the bean pot. 
Pour boiling water over J4 pound salt pork, scrape 
the rind and score in half-inch strips. Bury the pork 
in the beans, leaving only the rind exposed. Mix i 
tablespoonful of salt, more if the pork is not very 
salty, and i teaspoonful of mustard with J4 cup of 
molasses, fill the cup with hot water and when well 
mixed pour over the beans. Add enough more water 
to cover them. Keep them covered with water until 
the last hour, then let them brown over the top. 
Remove the lid of the bean pot the last hour. Bake 
8 hours or a little longer in a moderate oyen. Use 
an earthern bean pot. 

MRS. S. E. CRITCHLOW. 



RICE OMELET. 

One cup boiled rice, i cup milk, 3 eggs, i tea- 
spoonful salt, Yi. teaspoonful pepper ; separate whites 
and yolks, add the beaten whites the last and pour 
into a hot pan containing i tablespoonful of butter 
and bake in a hot oven. MRS. HOLMES. 



62 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Six or more large, firm apples, cut crosswise in 
slices three-sixteenths of an inch thick. Fry in hot 
grease and serve hot. MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Wash the asparagus carefully in cold water and 
cut off the tough white ends and throw into cold 
water to soak for 30 minutes. Now tie in small bun- 
dles and put it into a kettle of boiling water and boil 
for 20 minutes ; then add a teaspoonful of salt and boil 
10 minutes longer. While the asparagus is boiling, 
toast squares of bread ; butter while hot and lay on a 
heated platter. Now moisten the toast with a few 
sooonfuls of asparagus water. Take up the aspara- 
gus, drain, cut the strings and heap it on the toast, 
the heads all one way. Put a tablespoonful of butter 
to melt, add to it i tablespoonful of flour ; mix until 
smooth ; now add 3^2 pint of the water in which the 
asparagus was boiled, stir continually until it boils, 
season with salt and pepper to taste, pour it over the 
asparagus and serve. 

MRS. GEORGE McHATTIE. 

STEWED CELERY. 

The green stalks that are not attractive on the 
table may be used in this way : Scrape and wash 
them clean. Cut in pieces i inch long and soak in 
cold water for 15 minutes ; then put them into a sauce 
pan of boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt and 
boil 30 minutes or until tender. When done drain in 
a colander and throw into cold water while you make 
the sauce. Put i tablesooonful of butter in a frying 
pan, and when melted add one tablespoonful of flour ; 
mix until smooth; add J/^ pint of milk and stir con- 
tinually until it boils ; then add 3 tablespoonfuls of 
the water in which the celery was boiled, salt and 
white pepper to taste. Add the celery to this sauce, 
stir until thoroughly heated through, and it is ready 
to serve. ' MRS. GEORGE McHATTIE. 



Vegetables. 63 

COOKED BEETS. 

Cook bunch of beets until done, and take them 
and cut m small squares, make a dressing of a table- 
spoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of sugar, table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a small lump of butter. Cook 
this and pour over the beets and serve warm. 

AIRS. AUTEXRIETH. 

LIMA BEANS (DRIED). 

Soak one pint of beans in warm water over night. 
In the morning drain of? this water and cover with 
fresh warm water. Two hours before noon drain 
again, cover them with boiling soft water and boil 
30 minutes ; drain again, cover with fresh boiling 
water and boil until tender. Add a teaspoonful of 
salt after they have been boiling an hour. When 
done drain them, dredge with a tablespoonful of flour 
and add one tablespoonful of butter, a J/2 pint of 
cream, salt and pepper to taste, or they may be served 
with butter, salt and pepper. M. B. ^IcHATTIE. 

MILK SAUCE FOR MACCARONI. 

Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a stew pan until 
it bubbles, then add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, i tea- 
spoonful salt, I pint of milk virhich has been heated 
in a double boiler, add pepper if used for a vegetable. 
Cook until it thickens. Remove from stove and beat 
until smooth. A brown sauce can be made by brown- 
ing the flour and butter. Twelve sticks of maccaroni, 
i^ cups of white sauce, ^ cup stale bread crumbs, J/^ 
tablespoonful of butter, i cup grated cheese ; break 
maccaroni into 2-inch pieces, cook in boiling salted 
water until tender ; turn into colander and pour cold 
water over it ; then alternate maccaroni and white 
sauce, to which has been added J/2 cup cheese until the 
bake dish is filled. Then mix the remaining cheese^ 
with stale bread crumbs and melted butter and 
sprinkle over the maccaroni. Bake about J^ hour or 
long enough to brown nicely. MRS. R. R. QUAY. 



54 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



Vegetables. 65 



56 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. 

" Here is bread, ivhich strengthens mans heart, and therefore 
is called the staff of life. "—Matihemi Henry. 

RECIPE FOR FOUR (GOOD SIZED) LOAVES OF BREAD. 

Pare 4 or 5 potatoes of medium size, slice into 
3 or 4 pints of water and boil ; when done mash water 
and potatoes together through a colander, then add 
water sufficient to make four pints. When mixture 
is lukewarm, add yeast (i pint), 2 tablespoonfuls of 
salt and 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; cover and set in 
a warm place until morning. In the morning stir 
thoroughly and take out pine of yeast for future use. 
Set pan on stove and stir constantly with the hand 
until mixture is lukewarm, then stir into this about 2 
quarts of flour, cover and set away in a warm place to 
rise. When light add another tablespoonful of sugar 
and I of salt, melt heaping tablespoonful of lard and 
add to sponge, stirring with hand. Add flour enough 
to make soft dough of such consistency that it will not 
stick to the hands. Cover and set away for about 2 
hours in a warm place to rise. When light work 
down and again set away to rise for from i to 1% 
hours. Now mold into loaves and set away to rise 
for about i}^ hours. Bake for i hour in an oven of 
such temperature that the loaves will not brown for 
at least 15 minutes. MRS. N. W. BROWN. 

BREAD. 

Three or 4 potatoes, according to size. Cook until 
soft enough to mash. Should have a pint of potato 
water with which scald i tablespoonful of flour, add 
the mashed potato and i quart of water, i level table- 



68 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

spoonful of salt, 2 good tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
about y^ of a cup of yeast. Beat hard and cover and 
let stand until morning. Put the flour in a pan and 
make a hole in the center ; nut in it a bake spoonful 
of lard, warm the sponge to blood heat very care- 
fully, stirring it while warming; pour into the flour 
and stir with a spoon until stiff enough for the hands, 
then add gradually enough flour to make a dough 
that will not stick to the pan when kneading. Knead 
a long time, then keep warm to rise. When it has 
doubled its bulk make into Joaves with as little hand- 
ling as possible, and when light again bake. 

MRS. AMELIA A. KENNEDY. 

HOP YEAST. 

One-half package of compressed hops, or i good 
handful of loose ones, i level tablespoonful of ginger, 
2 level tablespoonfuls of salt, .^ tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, 3 or 4 potatoes ; put the hops in a thin muslin 
bag and put in the kettle with the potatoes, cook urjtil 
the potatoes are soft enough to mash ; you should 
have a quart of water to pour off, scald a good pint 
of flour with the hop water, add the mashed potatoes 
and beat smooth; add the ginger, salt,, sugar and a 
pint of water, when cool enough add a large cup of 
yeast and beat hard. Keep in warm place to rise, 
when light stir down and let come up again, stir again 
and set in a cooler.place. Next day stir it up and put 
in fruit jars and keep in a cool place. 

MRS. AMELIA A. KENNEDY. 

LIGHT CAKES. 

One pound and a quarter of bread dough, a little 
sugar, Yi teacup of butter and i egg ; mix well and add 
enough flour to make a soft dough; knead until 
smooth and shiny, make into little cakes rolled in 
the hands, let rise and bake. Do not set too close in 
the pan, but space so that each roll can crust 

MRS. AMELIA A. KENNEDY. 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 69 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. 

Pour I cupful of scalding milk and i cupful of boil- 
ing water over 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, ij^ tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of shortening, 
which may be lard or butter or i spoonful of each. 
Let this cool a little before adding a cake of com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in V^ cup of lukewarm water, 
I cup of white flour, 3 cups of entire wheat flour, stir 
well, then add 2 more cups of the entire or whole 
wheat flour. Knead until smooth and elastic ; put 
back in the bowl to rise and cover to exclude air. 
\\'hen well risen shape in loaves, cover and set to 
rise. Bake in a hot oven 45 minutes. 

]MRS. J. F. AIINER. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Four CUDS graham flour, i cup molasses, 2 cups 
buttermilk, i teaspoonful salt, ij4 teaspoonfuls soda. 
Makes 2 small loaves. Bake i hour in slow oven. 
CHARLOTTA W. SEIPLE. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Fill a quart measure to within an inch of the top 
with sour milk, then add sufficient New Orleans 
molasses to fill the measure. Dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls 
of soda in a little hot water ajid add to the milk and 
molasses, i teaspoonful of salt', and add graham flour 
to make a stiff batter. This is better to be steamed 
for an hour, then put into the oven to drv ofif but it 
may be baked instead. AIRS. F. W WALKER. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One quart graham floiir, i cujd molasses, i cup 
buttermilk, Yi teaspoonful soda, a little salt ; add suffi- 
cient cold water to make a stif? batter. Bake i hour. 

A. D. McKIBBEX. 

STEAMED BROWN LOAF. 

Two and one-half cups sour milk, J^ cup molas- 
ses, 2 cups corn meal (sifted), i cup graham flour (not 
sifted), I teaspoonful of salt, i heaping teaspoonful of 



70 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



soda dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 
Use coffee cups. Put in buttered oan in a steamer 
which closes tightly or put in a tightly covered tin 
pail which you can hang into the kettle of boiling 
water. Steam XVz or 4 hours. Eat hot. 

A. C. KENNEDY. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Two quarts flour, i pint milk. >4 teacup yeast, J4 
teacup sugar, yi teacup lard, i teaspoonful salt. Boil 
the milk and let the lard melt in it. Sift the flour into 
a deep dish; make a hole in the center, put in the 
yeast, then sugar and salt, then add the milk after it 
has cooled. Let it stand without mixing all night and 
in the morning mix and mold. Let rise, mold again, 
roll y2 inch thick, cut with a cake cutter, fold over, 
let rise again and bake when lieht. 

CHARLOTTA W. SEIPLE. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

A little less than 2 quarts of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of shortening, a small J4 cup of sugar and i large 
pint of milk that has been scalded and cooled to luke- 
warm. Dissolve I cake of Fleischmann's yeast in 
lukewarm water and add to this ; mix a soft dough and 
knead it 15 minutes. Set in a warm place to rise and 
when light roll out and cut. Melt a little butter and 
brush over top of each one, then fold over, put in pans 
and set to rise again. When thev are very light bake 
in quick oven about 20 minutes. These are fine. 

MRS. SWAN. 



DALLAS WAFFLES. 

Two eggs, 2 cups buttermilk, two-thirds cup but- 
ter or lard melted and added last, a little salt, i large 
teaspoonful soda, flour to stiffen and drop from the 
spoon. MRS. SWAN. 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 71 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

One quart flour sifted with 3 teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, salt, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls butter and 
lard mixed, milk sufficient for soft dough. Rub 
shortening through the flour, then wet with milk. 
Roll out, cut and bake in hot oven and serve at once. 

MRS. SWAN. 

RAISED BISCUITS. 

One quart of milk, % cup of lard or butter (half 
and half good), 34 cup of yeast, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
white stigar, i teaspoonful salt, flour to make a soft 
dough. Mix over night warmino^ the milk slightly 
and melting the lard or butter. In the morning roll 
out into a sheet % of an inch in thickness, cut into 
round cakes, set them closely together in a pan, let 
them rise for i hour, and bake 20 minutes. These 
delightful biscuits are even better if the above ingredi- 
ents be set with half as much flour in the form of a 
thin sponge and the rest of the flour be worked in 5 
hours later. Let rise 5 hours more and proceed as 
already directed. This is the best plan if the biscuits 
are intended for tea. 

MRS. WM. W. WILSON. 

MUSH BISCUIT. 

Take i quart of boiling water and make a very 
stiff corn meal mush. It should be well salted. Then 
add J4 pint of milk. Have a bread pan with about 2 
quarts of flour in it, into which put the mush while 
still hot, with a large tablespoonful of lard. Let it 
cool a little, then with the hands mix the flour and 
mush together until cool enough to add i cup of yeast. 
Add flour as needed and knead into a stiff smooth 
dough and put to rise. If the rolls should be wanted 
for the evening meal they should be made up very 
early in the morning as they are much better to be 
very light before- making into rolls. The dough may be 
rolled with the rolling pin and cut with a biscuit cut- 
ter, but I prefer taking a piece about the size of a 



72 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

large egg and rolling in the hands. Place closely 
together in a baking pan and bake in a very quick 
oven. This dough can be kept for several days by 
placing it in a cool place and when wanted make into 
rolls and put in a warm place to rise 2 or 3 hours 
before needed. These are considered good cool 
weather biscuits. E. HOOPES. 

SALLY LUNN. 

One pint milk, i cup butter, i cup sugar, i cake 
yeast, 4 eggs, flour for a stiff batter ; warm the but- 
ter and milk together and mix in the other ingredi- 
ents. Put it in two medium-sized pans and let it rise 
6 or 7 hours. Bake about ^ of an hour. 

SALLY LUNN. 

One pint warmed milk, one-third cup sugar, % 
cup butter put into milk to warm, J4 cup yeast, 4 
eggs, flour enough to make a stiff batter. If for sup- 
per set to rise 10 o'clock A. M. Bake % of an hour. 

S. M. CLARKE. 

"QUICK SALLY LUNN." 

Three eggs, J/^' cup butter, i cup of sweet milk, 
3 cups of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 3 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder ; bake in a loaf J4 hour. 

MRS. EMMA SCHEITERLEIN. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Warm>4 cup butter in a pint of milk, add tea- 
spoonful salt and tablespoonful sugar, beat thor- 
oughly. When the mixture is cool enough add 4 
beaten eggs, i cake yeast dissolved in cup of water, 
beat hard until the batter breaks into blisters ; set to 
rise at noon ; flour enough to make stiff batter. Bake 
15 or 20 minutes. 

AMELIA TOWNSEND WILDE. 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 73 

RAISED MUFFINS. 

One cup milk, i tablespoonful butter i table- 
spoonful sugar, I teaspoonful salt, i egg, Y^ cake 
yeast ; flour enough to make a stiff batter ; set to rise 
over night. Bake in muffin rings. Do not fill the 
rings over half full. 

AMELIA TOWXSEND WILDE. 

YEAST MUFFINS. 

One quart of sifted flour, 2 eggs, i tablespoonful 
of melted butter, i teaspoonful of sugar, enough milk 
and water in equal quantities to make a stiff batter ; 
set to rise over night. In the morning half fill the 
muffin rings and set to rise again. When the batter 
comes to the top bake. 

]MRS. CHARLES A. BARKER. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

One cup corn meal, i cup flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, i teaspoonful salt, i teaspoonful lard, 
I tablespoonful sugar, 2 eggs, and milk to make a 
batter ; beat hard 3 minutes. 

MRS. EMMA SCHEITERLEIN. 

MUFFINS. 

One pint milk, i tg%, i tablespoonful lard, i tea- 
spoonful salt, Yz cup yeast, flour to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Set to rise over night if for breakfast. If for 
supper set about 11 o'clock. Bake in muffin rings 15 
or 20 minutes. MRS. SCHEITERLEIN. 

RAISED WHEAT WAFFLES. 

Warm a pint of milk and add to it 2 tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, i of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt and 
Yz cupful of yeast or J4 cake of compressed yeast. 
After sifting 1Y2. pints of flour pour this mixture upon 
it and beat thoroughlv. Add 2 eggs well beaten and 
after covering the dish closely set in a warm place so 
that its contents will rise. The mixture should be 
light in 4 hours. Excellent. L. M. WHITE. 



74 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

WAFPLES. 

Two cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, J4 
teaspoonful salt, cup milk, 2 eggs, i tablespoonful 
melted butter, sift together the flour, baking powder 
and salt, add gradually the milk with the yolks of 
eggs beaten until thick, then add the butter and the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiflf froth ; bake on hot 
well-greased waffle iron ; serve with maple syrup. 

MRS. FISHER. 

WAFFLES. 

One quart of sweet milk, Ij4 pounds flour, J4 
pound butter, 2 tablespoonfuls yeast or a cake of 
quick yeast, i teaspoonful salt. Mix together, set to 
rise five hours. Just before baking add 3 well-beaten 
eggs (beat separately). Bake on irons. 

MRS. SCHEITERLEIN. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint milk, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, butter the size of an egg, flour to make a thin 
batter. This recipe never fails. 

MRS. R. S. EBERHART. 

WHOLE WHEAT GEMS. 

One egg beaten with i teaspoonful of salt, 2 cup- 
fuls of milk, 2 cups and a half of whole wheat flour. 
Bake in iron gem pans greased with butter and 
heated. MRS. CHAS. A. BARKER. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One pint of sour milk, or buttermilk is better, i 
teaspoonful soda put into the sour milk, a little salt, 
I ^%%' y^ cup sugar, i tablespoonful lard. Thicken 
with graham flour and bake in gem tins. 

MRS. S. K. CRITCHLOW. 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 



CORN PUFFS. 

Put one pint of sweet milk in a double boiler, heat 
thoroughly, add '4 teaspoonful of salt and from 
y2 to two-thirds of a cup of cornmeal. When milk 
and meal begins to thicken, take from fire and add 
the well-beaten yolks of four eggs ; then the beaten 
whites. Bake in muffin pans twentv-five minutes. 

L. h! SCHWEPPE. 



PUFFETS. 

One quart flour, J^ teaspoonful of salt, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, 2 effps, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar, i pint of sweet milk and 3 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Rub the butter into the flour ; beat 
the eggs separately, adding the whites lastly. Bake in 
gem pans in a hot oven. 

:mrs. s. e. critchlow. 



POP OVERS. 

One pint of milk, 3 eggs, i pint of sifted flour, a 
lump of butter the size of a walnut, and a little salt. 
Beat the eggs together until very light, then add 
gradually the other ingredients. Let stand half an 
hour, then put in small gem pans and bake quickly in 
a hot oven. Serve with maple sauce. 

L. AI. WHITE. 



SPIDER CORN BREAD. 

For this is required a frying pan with a handle short 
enough to go into the oven. Z^Iix together a cup and 
two-thirds of cornmeal and one-third of white flour, 
Yn. cupful of sugar, i teaspoonful of .salt. Beat 2 eggs 
light and add to them i cup of sour milk and i of 
sweet milk, in which a teaspoonful of soda has been 
dissolved. Pour this mixture upon the dry ingre- 
dients and mix thoroughly. Have frjang pan very hot 



76 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



and after greasing with two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Pour the batter into it. Now carefully pour into the 
mixture another cup of sweet milk, but do not stir 
the cake. Bake one-half hour in a rather hot oven 
and serve at once. MRS. F. W. WALKER. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One pint of fresh meal, scalded with i pint of boil- 
ing water. Into this put a small teaspoonful salt, and 
a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut, and a table- 
spoonful of sugar. Measure a half cup wheat flour, and 
sift through it 2 rounded teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, 3 eggs, beaten separately, with the yolks, put 
Yz pint sweet milk and stir both into the scalded 
meal, then add the white flour, and last mix gently 
through the batter the stiff-beaten whites. Enough 
for a family of 4 or 5 persons. 

MRS. E. C. KENNEDY. 

CRACKER GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One quart sweet milk, i egg, well beaten, i cup 
flour. Roll enough fresh crackers to finish thicken- 
ing. If crackers are not fresh add a little baking 
powder. Add a pinch of salt. MRS. RICHEY. 

CORN DODGERS. 

One pint of cornmeal, i pint of hot water, poured 
over the meal, i teaspoonful of sugar, i teaspoonful 
of salt, I quarter of a pint of sweet milk added grad- 
ually. Cook one-half hour in spoonfuls on a griddle. 
MRS. CHARLES A. BARKER. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Three tablespoonfuls of molasses, 4 cups luk'e 
warm water, 3^/^ .cups buckwheat flour, i tablespoon- 
ful of salt, Yz cake compressed yeast, dissolved in a 
little water. Put molasses into a bowl and stir in 
the water, mixing well; sift the salt into the flour 
and add it to the molasses and water, pour in the 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 77 



yeast and beat thoroughly. Let the mixture rise 
over night, and in the morning dip by the tablespoon- 
ful from the edge of the bowl without stirring or 
beating the mixture. Fry the same as griddle cakes. 
If the buckwheat flour is heavy add a little white 
flour. ■ M. H. OLIVER. 

FRIED CORN MEAL MUSH. 
Add to I quart boiling wlater i teaspoonful of 
salt, and by degrees dredge in the meal. Stir con- 
stantly and cook one-half to three-fourths of an 
hour. Place on back of range until the moisture is 
well evaporated, then pour into greased bread tins 
and put away to become cold and firm. Next morn- 
ing cut into slices, dust over them a little flour and 
fry a delicate brown. A pint or more of sifted corn- 
meal will be sufficient. 

]\IRS. GEO. McHATTIE. 



78 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 79 



80 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



RELISHES. 

" Neither poignant sauce, nor costly treat. 
For hunger gives a relish to the meat." 

VERY NICE OMELET. 

Four eggs well beaten, i cup of milk, in which is 
soaked J4 cup of bread crumbs, salt to season, mix 
all and pour into a hot skillet, in which is a generous 
piece of butter. Cook slowly lo minutes, slip a knif: 
around the edges, and if done just right it can be 
folded in half or rolled into a hot platter. This is 
more delicate than when made all of egg. 

MRS. THOMAS KENNEDY. 

FRENCH RAREBIT. 

Butter an earthen dish and lay in the bottom 
pieces of buttered bread. Sprinkle on this a layer 
of grated cheese ; add a layer of buttered bread, then 
cheese, and so on until the dish is full, with cheese 
on top. Beat 2 eggs, mix them with a cud of good, 
rich milk or cream,, and pour over the bread and 
cheese. Bake until lightly browned. 

IRENE PUGH. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Two cups grated cheese, one-third cup of melted 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls water, i teaspoonful of salt. 
Black and red pepper to taste. Flour enough to roll 
nicely. Cut in six-inch lengths narrow. Bake in hot 
oven. MRS. JOHN READ MINER. 



82 Presbyterian Cook Book. ^ 

CHEESE FONDU. 

Put in a bowl one cupful of bread crumbs without 
any crust. Add i cup and a half of milk, let stand 
20 minutes, melt i tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan, add the bread and milk, when hot stir in i 
cupful of grated cheese and J^ a teaspoonful of salt. 
When the cheese is melted add 2 eggs, well beaten, 
let it come to the boiling point and serve. 

MRS. T. SIDNEY WHITE. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE, 

Boil in water with a little salt, enough macaroni 
for one meal, about an hour, then drain and put in 
a baking pan. A layer of macaroni then a layer of 
cheese, time about, having the cheese on top. Pour 
over all a cup of sweet milk and bake for a half hour 
in a moderate oven. MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Put 4 tablespoortfuls of flour into an ordinary 
soup plate ; add half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
cayenne, 4 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese,' and 2 
tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Make a well in the 
center of the dish, put in the yolk of i egg, and about 
a tablespoonful of ice water ; mix and carefully roll 
into a thin sheet. Cut into straws about five inches 
long and the width of a straw. Cut some in small 
rings : bake in a very moderate oven. Put the straws 
through the rings like a bundle of sticks. 

MRS. F. S. READER. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Crumb cheese in baking dish, using layer of 
cheese then a layer of bread crumbs, salt and pep- 
per, then another layer of cheese and bread alternate 
until dish is filled, having too layer bread cut very 
thin and buttered. Pour over all i egg whipped 
light, I cup of milk, bake half hour. 

MRS. McCULLOUGH. 



.ReJi,shes. 



83 



84 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 

" Custards for supper, a.nd an endless host, of sylla.bubs and 
jellies and mince pies, and other such lady-tike luxuries." 

—Shelly. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup suet, 3 cups bread crumbs, i cup brown 
sugar, I cup chopped raisins, i cup currants, i cup 
flour, used to dredge the fruit, i teaspoonful soda, 
dissolved in % of a cup of sour milk. Steam 3 hours. 
To be eaten with a warm sauce. 

REV. THOMAS W. SWAN. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound bread crumbs, i pound brown sugar, i 
pound raisins, i pound currants, J4 pound citron, % 
pound chopped suet, 6 eggs, i cup milk, i teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, i teaspoonful allspice, J^ teaspoonful 
cloves, I nutmeg, i wine glass brandy. Boil in a 
buttered mold 6 hours, or it can be steamed if pre- 
ferred. MRS. HOLMES. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound suet (beef), finely chopped, i pound 
brown sugar, i pound bread crumbs, 8 eggs, 3 ounces 
citron and lemon peel, rind of i lemon, i nutmeg, i 
pound seedless raisins, i pound muscatel raisins, J4 
pound currants, i tablespoonful cinnamon, 3^ tea- 
spoonful mace finely ground. Stone and cut the rais- 
ins, but do not chop them ; mix all the dryingredients 
together/, add well-beaten and strained eggs. When 
well mixed put in bowls or moulds, cover and steam 
5 or 6 hours. Makes 4 or 5 quart bowls. A plain 
sauce for pudding is made of Yz cup butter, i cup su- 
gar, I pint cream or milk, slightly thickened with 
cornstarch. Flavor with vanilla, or brandy can be 
added. MRS. E. O. MAYER. 



86 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Two cups of bread crumbs, i cup of suet, ^ cup 
of molasses, 3 eggs, i^ cups of sugar, i cup of 
raisins, i cup of currants, i cup of sweet milk, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, i teaspoonful salt, i 
teaspoonful cinnamon, i nutmeg, i^ cups of flour. 
Steam three hours. MRS. T. J. FIDDLER. 



PLAIN PLUM PUDDING. 

One pint stale bread crumbs, i cup flour, i cup 
of stoned raisins, juice and rind of i lemon, i cup of 
washed currants, i cup brown sugar, i teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, I/2 nutmeg grated, Yt. cup of molasses, 3 
eggs, Yz pound suet, Y^ pound citron or part orange 
peel, Y teaspoonful of baking soda. Mix well all the 
dry ingredients. Beat the eggs, add the molasses. 
Dissolve the soda in a tablespoonful of hot water, add 
to the molasses and eggs ; then mix into the dry in- 
gredients and pack into a greased mould. Boil four 
hours. Serve with hard or brandy sauce. 

MRS. V. L. BRADFORD. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound raisins stoned, i pound currants, J4 
pound suet, i}4 pounds flour, J^ cup of New Orleans 
molasses, in which dissolve i teaspoonful of soda. 
Let the molasses first get hot, i grated nutmeg, i 
pound of dark brown sugar, 6 eg^s, i teaspoonful of 
salt, I cup of milk. Boil from 7 to 8 hours. Make 
a bag of cheese cloth doubled about 8 inches wide 
and 16 inches long. Before putting the pudding in 
bag, dip the bag in boiling water. Tie near the end 
to give ample room for swelling. When done rip 
the bag open and place pudding in the oven of the 
stove to dry off. Keep water boiling all the time. 
Eat with hard or brandy sauce. 

MRS. S. E. CRITCHLOW. 



Puddings mid Desserts. 87 

PUFF PUDDING. 

Two cups of milk, put in boiler and let come to 
boil, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 4 tablespoonfuls 
flour, not heaping. Beat with butter, then stir into 
boiling milk 2 tablespoonfuls suarar, beaten with yolks 
of 6 eggs. Beat the whites of 6 eggs and stir in just 
before you put in oven. Bake 30 minutes. Serve 
immediately, with the following sauce. 

MRS. HENRY A. HUTCHINSON. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

One-half cup butter, i cup powdered sugar, J4 cup 
cream, 4 tablespoonfuls wine. Beat butter to a cream, 
add sugar gradually, beating all the while. When 
light and creamy add the wine and then the cream, 
a little at a time. When all beaten smooth, place the 
bowl in a basin of hot water and stir until the sauct 
is smooth and creamv, no longer. 

MRS. HENRY A. HUTCHINSON. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Boil two cups of milk and pour, while hot upon 
the yolks of 3 beaten eggs and 3 tablespoonfuls su» 
gar, pinch of salt and little vanilla, stir in the .beaten 
whites of eggs last. 

Set dish with custard in pan of water and bake 
until stifT. Try with a knife ; when it comes out clean 
it is done. AMELIA TOW'NSEND WILDE. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

One and one-half pints milk, 2 heaping table- 
spoonfuls farina, 3 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 
eggs, vanilla and pinch of salt. Heat milk in double 
boiler. Add farina and boil half an hour, beat eggs 
and sugar together, add when farina is cool and stir 
in an extra pint of milk. Put all in a pudding dish to 
bake. AMELIA TOWNSEND WILDE. 



88 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



CREAM PUFFS (VERY NICE). 

Two cups boiling water, i cup butter put in the 
boiling water, stir in 2 cups of flour, cook until thor- 
oughly done, stirring all the time. Then let it cool 
so it will not cook the eggs, and stir in lo, 2 at a- 
time, stirring thoroughly, add J4 teaspoonful baking 
powder. Drop a tablespoonful at a time, 3 or 4 
inches apart in a large baking pan and bake 20 min- 
utes in a quick oven. They will be hollow when done. 

FILLING. 

One cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, 
2 eggs and 3 cups of milk, boiled together and fla- 
vored. When both are cool or just before using, 
slice ofif the top of the puff, leaving an inch for a 
hinge, put in as much filling as you like. 

MRS. ALVERSON. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, i cud of bread crumbs, >4 cup 
flour, J4 pound of beef suet, i egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sweet milk, J4 pound chopped fis:^s, i teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder, a pinch of salt. Steam three hours. 
CHARLOTTE WEBER SEIPLE. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-half pound figs, J4 pound bread crumbs, J^ 
cup flour, I cup milk, 2j4 ounces sugar, 3 ounces 
butter and 2 eggs. Chop the figs fine and put in the 
butter, sugar and eggs. Butter a mold and sprinkle 
with flour. Steam 3 hours. L. A. M. B. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Soak a cupful of bread crumbs in half pint of milk, 
beat into them 3 eggs beaten together, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered beef suet and 5 tablespoonfuls of su- 
gar. Last of all, beat in half pint of chopped figs 
thoroughly dredged with flour, turn in double boiler 
well greased and steam 3 hours. Turn out and serve 
with hot sauce. MRS. McCULLOUGH. 



Pudding's and Desserts. 89 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-half pound chopped figs, i cup chopped suet, 
I large cup bread crumbs, i cup sugar, 2 eggs, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, scant cup of milk, nutmeg 
or cinnamon. Steam three hours. 

I 
LEMON SAUCE. 

Two cups granulated sugar, butter size of an egg, 
I tablespoonful cornstarch wet in a little cold water, 
juice of I lemon, J/^ the peel grated, i cup of boiling 
water. Cream the butter and sugar together until 
thoroughly mixed. Pour cornstarch into the boihng 
water and stir over the fire until it thickens. Then 
mix with the creamed butter and sugar and serve hot. 

S. A. PUGH. 

CHARLOTTE CREAM. 

Three-fourths quart rich cream, 2 tablespoonfuls 
gelatine, J^ pint boiling milk (small measure), 2 table- 
spoonfuls pulverized sugar, i teaspoonful vanilla. 
Put gelatine to soak in a little cold milk, then pour 
over it the boiling milk. To the cream add sugar and 
vanilla and whip till stiff. Strain the milk containing 
gelatine, and when cold mix with whipped cream, 
beating while mixing. Take slices of sponge cake, 
dip edges in wine, put into a mould, pour sauce and 
the cream mixture over them, put slices of cake on 
this, put more cream, then cake and so on. Set 
away to cool until stiff. 

MRS. E. P. TOWNSEND. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Whites of six eggs, i cup sugar, J^ box gelatine 
(Cox's), I pint cream, i teaspoonful vanilla. Make 
a clear jelly without lemon ; beat the whites very stiff 
and when the jelly is about to congeal pour into the 
beaten whites, whipping all the time, then whip the 
cream light and add to the above, beating constantly, 
adding the vanilla to the whole. 

A. D. McKIBBEN. 



90 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Whites of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, ^ box 
gelatine dissolved in Y^. pint boilinp" water, i quart 
cream, whipped, ^ gill wine, i tablespoonful vanilla. 

MRS. JOS. MAYER. 

CHARLOTTE. 

One cup sugar, i cup of milk, i &%%. Mix all to- 
gether and boil until thick. Dissolve Yi box of gela- 
tine in half a cup of water, and when dissolved add to 
mixture while warm. Whip one pint of cream and 
add to the above mixture as soon as cool. Flavor 
with vanilla. MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 

MISS CORNELIUS' PRUNE PUDDING. 

Whites of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls sugar, 
half cup prunes, stewed and sweetened. Beat the 
ep'Pfs to a stifif froth, add sugar and prunes, stirring 
them lightly together. Pour into a baking dish and 
brown lightly in a hot oven. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One pint milk, yolks of four eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla. Put milk 
in double boiler, beat sugar and eggs together, pour 
a little of the hot milk upon the eggs and sugar and 
then return all to the double boiler and cook till it 
slightly thickens. Add vanilla and pour over the 
pudding. 

COCOARUT PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch, small half cup of sugar, half cup of cocoanut, 
half teaspoonful of vanilla, the whites of three or four 
eggs. Put the milk in a double boiler and when at 
boiling point add the cornstarch (mixed with a little 
cold milk), cocoanut, sugar and vanilla. Cook about 
ten minutes and just as it is taken from the stove add 



Puddings and Desserts. 91 



the whites of eggs which have been beaten very stiff 
and pour into a mold. For the custard take one and 
one-quarter pints of m\lk, yolks of three or four eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, half teaspoonful of 
corn starch, half teaspoonful of vanilla. 

MRS. STANTON. 



FRIED CREAM. 

Ingredients : One pint milk, five ounces sugar, 
butter the size of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls corn starch and one of flour, 
mixed with a little cold milk. Put the milk and sugar 
into a double boiler and when about to boil stir in 
the corn starch and flour, stirring for fully two min- 
utes to thoroughly cook the starch and flour. Remove 
and stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and return 
to the fire to set them. Stir in the butter and vanilla 
and pour on a buttered pan until one-third of an inch 
thick. When cold and stiff cut into parallelograms 
about two by three inches. Roll these carefully in 
sifted brea,d crumbs, then in beaten egg, slightly 
sweetened, and again in bread crumbs. Dip these in 
toiling lard and when of a fine color take out and 
place in the oven four or five minute$, sprinkle with 
pulverized sugar and serve immediately. 

A. D. McKIBBEN. 



CHERRY TAPIOCA. 

Soak four small tablespoonfuls of tapioca over 
night in a pint of water. Take a pint of stoned cher- 
ries and add the juice to the tapioca. Add enough 
sugar to make quite sweet. Cook in a double boiler 
until very soft. Add fruit and cook until fruit is soft. 
If the fruit is not verv iuicy add a little more water. 
Serve cold with either whipped or plain cream. 
Canned or fresh cherries are equally good. 

MRS. STANTON. 



'^2 Preshyfcriail Cook Book. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Into one quart of boiling water put two large 
apples, pared and sliced very thin ; boil until tender, 
then add butter size of a walnut and one cup of sugar, 
let cook a short time. Make a soft dough with one 
pint of flour, half teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, one heaping teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der and a cup of milk. Flour hands well and press 
dough out thin. Put on top of sauce, let boil up, 
then put in oven and bake until crust is done. Serve 
with cream. M. READ. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of tapioca soaked in cold 
water until it is swelled enough ; then add one quart 
of milk and put it in a double kettle or in a pitcher 
;:ii:l set into boiling water; when the tapioca is suffi- 
ciently tender add the yolks of three eggs, a small 
teacup of sugar, a little salt. Stir this into the boil- 
ing milk : flavor with vanilla, then pour half in a dish; • 
add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth ; then 
pour this on the top. You can make it in the morn- 
ing, as it is good eaten cold and is very nice. 

MRS. J. F. MINER. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

()ne and one-half pints of milk, small half cup of 
tapioca, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, half 
teaspoonful of vanilla, one teaspoonful of butter. 
Soak the tapioca in part of the milk, then cook in the 
rest of the milk, in a double boiler, until soft. Beat 
yolks of eggs and sugar together and add to milk. 
Then butter and flavorin"- and lastlv, as it is taken 
from the fire, the whites of egg which have been 
beaten very light. MRS. STANTON. 

CRANBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one of butter rubbed 
together, add one egg beaten well, add a small cup 
of milk, two cups of flour with two heaping teaspoon- 



Puddings and Desserts. 93 



fills of baking powder sifted with it. Bake in two 
pie pans. When you put your shortcakes into the 
oven put one quart of cranberries, one teacup of 
water and one teacup of sugar on to cook, boil for 
seven minutes. Your cakes will be baked in twenty 
minutes or less. Put one on a large platter, butter 
lightly. Spread thickly with cranberries. Put the 
other cake, also buttered, on top and cover with the 
rest of your berries. Send to the table immediately 
with either plain hard sauce or a foamy sauce made 
from one cup of powdered sugar and one heaping 
sooonful of butter rubbed well together. Add the 
white of one egg, beat well, then add two tablespoon- 
fuls of the boiling juice from the cranberries ; beat up 
and serve. ^.IRS. T. L. KENNEDY. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Three pints of milk, one scant teacupful of rice, 
one teacupful of sugar, one teasDOonful of vanilla; 
bake slowlv until done, about three hours. 

MRS. EMMA SCHEITERLEIN. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One tablespoonful of corn starch in three cups of 
milk, add the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and 
three-quarters of a cupful of sugar; put the mixture 
over the fire and when hot add one cupful of boiled 
rice, stir this until it thickens, then take off the fire 
and add flavoring. Put in pudding dish and cover 
with meringue made of the whites of the two eggs and 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put in oven and brown. 

MYRTILLA READ. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

One cup tapioca soaked over night. Put in 
double boiler one quart milk and tapioca and boil 
until clear. Very little sugar. Add yolks of three 
eggs beaten light and boil onlv a minute. When you 
take it ofif the stove stir in the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff and flavoring. MRS. JOHN READ MINER. 



94 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



SAGO PUDDING. 

Five tablespoontuls of sago cooked in double 
boiler in one quart new milk with a few pieces of nice 
stick cinnamon till soft. Stir into the hot sago two 
small cupfuls sugar and butter the size of large &^g. 
When cool stir in the beaten yokes of five or six eggs 
and bake in a buttered dish three-quarters of an hour. 
Make a meringue of the whites,, drop over the pud- 
ding and brown lightly. Eat with cream. 

S. M. KENNEDY. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Crust, one quart of flour, two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, one-quarter pound of butter cut 
into the flour. Moisten with milk or water, making 
a soft dough. Roll and cut into squares half an inch 
thick, or not so thick if preferred. Add apples whole, 
to which add teaspoonful of butter and add a little 
sugar. Fold over the covers, place in a pan half full 
of water, to which add on^-third of a cup of butter 
and one cup of sugar. Bake, or put in a greased pan 
and bake without the water. M. READ. 



ESTELL PUDDING. 

Three eggs well beaten, two and one-half table- 
spoonfuls sugar, two tablespoontuls butter, three- 
quarters of a cup sweet milk, one coffeecup raisins 
chopped fine and one cup currants, one tablespoonful 
baking powder, two cups flour. Steam about 35 
minutes. To be eaten with cream or any sauce. 

IRENE PUGH. 



FAIRY PUDDING. 

Six tablespoonfuls of flour, filled but not heaping -, 
one-quarter teaspoonful of baking powder, half tea- 
sooonful of salt, two eggs, one pint milk, put in little 
at a time and mix to smooth batter, the yolks of eggs 



Puddings and Desserts. ' 95 



added, the baking powder dissolved in a teaspoonful 
of milk, the whites of eggs beaten stiff and added just 
before putting in oven. Bake half hour. Eat with 
hard or soft sauce. MR'S. S. M. CLARKE. 

NEW ENGLAND INDIAN MEAL PUDDING. 

Four quarts of milk, one and one-half cups of suet 
shredded, nearly two cups of molasses, one pound of 
raisins, one heaping teaspoonful of cinnamon, one- 
half of each cloves and allspice. Put two Quarts of 
milk on to scald and add to it sufficient yellow corn 
meal to make it as thick as mush. Add all the other 
ingredients and bake very slowly for five or six hours. 
This makes a large pudding, but in cold weather it 
will keep a long time. In New England it is warmed 
and eaten for breakfast but we prefer it for dessert 
served with a hard sauce. MRS. F. W. WALKER. 

HARD SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of powdered 
sugar, cream the butter, add the sugar slowly until 
well mixed. Flavor with vanilla or sherry wine. 

AIRS. L. S. OLIVER. 

PRINTER'S PUDDING. 

Yolk of three eggs beaten light, three tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, one cup sweet milk, one cup suet, one cup 
chopped raisins, one cup currants, a little nutmeg and 
salt, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, flour enough 
to make a stiff batter. Steam two hours. 

MRS. WM. P. TOWNSEND. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Half cup molasses, half cup sweet milk, one cu^i 
graham flour, one egg, half cup raisins, half cup 
currants, one teaspoonful salt. Steam two hours. 

MRS. R. L. KENAH. 

SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, half cup milk, one 
egg, flavor. MRS. R. L. KENAH. 



96 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of fine bread crumbs, one quart milk, 
one cup sugar, yolks of four eggs, a little butter ; bake 
until it sets. Spread on the pudding a layer of jelly 
or preserves. Over this pour the whites of the eggs 
which have been beaten stiff and sweetened. Return 
to the oven until slightly browned. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Two and one-half cups graham flour, one cup milk, 
one cup molasses, one cup seeded raisins, two small 
teaspoonfuls soda, a little butter. Steam two hours. 
Serve with lemon sauce. MRS. RICHEY. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Three cups flour, one and one-half cups raisins, half 
cup currants, small piece of citron; beat together one 
cup molasses, one cup water and half cup butter ; one 
teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice, one teaspoon- 
ful soda sifted in flour. Steam three hours. Sauce 
for pudding, one cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one 
tablespoonful flour, one egg, one pint boiling water 
and one tablespoonful vinegar. Nutmeg to flavor. 

MRS. HURST. 

LEMON ROLL. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful of 
milk, one cup flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. 
Bake quickl)'- in a small drippino- pan, turn out and 
spread on the cream as soon as possible after baking. 
Cream for lemon rolls, one cup sugar, one lemon cut 
fine, one ^g% well beaten ; cook all togetlier until done 
and set it to cool while vou mix the rolls. 

MRS. FISHER. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One pint of flour, one egg. a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, one cup milk, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 



Puddings and Desserts. 97 



Sauce, one cup sugar, half cup butter, one egg, all 
beaten well ; add a cup of water and heat to a scald. 
Flavor with vanilla. ■ S. A. PUGH. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

One quart flour, half cup butter, half cup sugar, 
three teaspoonfuls baking powder, three teaspoonfuls 
salt ; moisten the dough with water, roll out in four 
layers and spread butter between each layer and 
sprinkle with flour. When cold have berries mashed 
and sweetened ; put on according to taste. 

}vIRS. C. X. GROSCOST. 

WINE JELLY WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Soak one-half of a box of gelatine in one-half of a 
cup of cold water until soft, boil together for one min- 
ute one cupful of water and one cupful of sugar, take 
from the fire, add the soaked gelatine and stir until 
dissolved. Add the juice of one lemon and strain. 
Add one cupful of cold water and one cupful of any 
wine preferred, if used, or instead of wine use orange 
juice, and let stand until cold. Mold either in border 
mold and fill center with whipped cream to serve, or 
mold in sherbet cups and serve with whipped cream 
and bits of candied fruit. L. H. SCHWEPPE. 

BOILED PUDDING. 

Three-fourths pound of suet, chopped and free 
from strings, one pound of raisins, one-half a loaf of 
bread grated, one-half pound of brown sugar, 3 eggs, 
one-half cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 2 
teaspoonfuls cinnamon, i teaspoonful each of ginger, 
cloves and nutmeg, should be as stiff as soft dough, 
boil four hours. MRS. G. E. APPLETON. 

GUERNSEY PUDDING. 

Suet, one-half pound, chopped fine, flour, one- 
fourth pound, bread crumbs three-fourths pound, 
French currants ■ one-half pound, raisins one-half 



98 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

pound, stoned, eggs, 6, well beaten, salt one-half tea- 
spoonful, milk enough to make a stiff batter, baking 
powder, one teaspoonful. To be eaten with a sauce 
flavored to suit taste. MRS. S. M. CLARK. 

MARMALADE PUDDING. 

Two eggs, one-half cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, one and one-fourth cups flour, warm flour and 
put in one teaspoonful baking powder and a pinch of 
salt, and two large tablespoonfuls orange marmalade. 
Steam one and one-half hours. 

EMILY O. T. MAYER. 

GINGER PUDDING. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of molasses, one- 
half cup of raisins and currants, one-half cup of hot 
water, one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the hot 
water, one-half tablespoonful of ginger, one egg. Stir 
quite stiff with flour and pour in double boiler and 
steam one hour. Eat with hot sauce. 

MRS. E. McCULLOUGH. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Two eggs, a ninch of salt, a cup of sugar, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of wliter, one cup of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder. Ffll a pudding pan two-thirds 
full of sour applep chopped fine, pour batter over and 
bake one-half hour. MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cup bread crumbs, one cup suet chopped fine, 
one cup flour, one cup sweet milk, one large cup rais- 
ins, currants and citron, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one cup of sugar, three eggs, one dessert- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one-half dessert spoonful of 
allspice, one-half dessert spoonful of cloves,- one nut- 
meg grated. Steam three hours. 

MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 



Puddings and Desse%s. 99 



PRUNE PUDDING. 

\Miites of five eggs, one-half pint granulated su- 
gar, twelve large prunes. Boil prunes tmtil tender 
enough to remove seeds, then chop fine. Beat whites 
of egg stiff, add prunes and stir until smooth. *Sift 
sugar twice, the last time adding a small pinch of 
cream of tartar, then beat into prunes and eggs. 
Have ready a greased mould set in a pan of boiling 
water : pour the pudding into it and bake 20 minutes 
in a warm oven. After the first five minutes look at 
pudding and if brown on top, cover with paper for re- 
mainder of time. Serve cold with a custard made of 
yolks of three eggs. MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

POOR MAN'S CAKE, NICE FOR COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups sugar, butter size of an 
^SS' three cups flour, one cup sweet milk, two eggs, 
three rounded teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake 
in cake pans, two layers, flavor with a half teaspoon- 
ful vanilla and a little nutmeg. 

For sauce, take one cup sugar, either white or 
nice brown, I have used both, and into it rub a 
rounded-up tablespoonful of cornstarch and a little 
more than a pinch of salt, pour on this a pint and a 
half of boiling water and stir till it thicken's, then fla- 
vor with nutmeg and vanilla, and last stir in a piece 
of butter size of an egg. Do not boil after the but- 
ter goes in. Xice for hastv dessert. 

:\IRS. E. C. KENNEDY. 

EVERY DAY PUDDING. 

One pound best beef suet, shaved fine with knife, 
one pound brown sugar, one pound currants, one 
pound raisins, three eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon ground, one-half table- 
spoonful of cloves, grotmd, two teaspoonfuls of Royal 
baking powder, flour to. make a stiff batter. Steam 
three or four hours. 



1 100 Pieshylcrian Cook Book. _ 

' FOR DRESSING. 

One pint boiling water, one cup granulated sugar, 
one piece of butter size of a walnut, grated rind and 
juice of one orange, one tablespoonful of cornstarch, 
stir in after melting with water, one egg beaten well, 
boil for ID minutes after all the ingredients have been 
added. MRS. MARY TEA. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, two ta- 
blespoonfuls melted butter, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, flour to make a moderately stiff batter, one 
cup stewed cherries, drained, steam in cups. Make 
a sauce with the juice of the cherries. 

AMELIA TOWNSEND WILDE. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Two teacups of flour sifted three or four times, 
two round teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Wet flour 
with milk or water for stifif batter. Butter individ- 
ual cups, put in a little batter, a few cherries (fresh 
or canned) then more batter. Steam half an hour, 
serve with sugar and cream. 

EMMA C. WINANS. 

CUP PUDDINGS. 

One tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful 
melted butter, one t%%, small cup of milk, a pinch of 
salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder in flour 
enough to make a thick batter. Put a small table- 
spoonful in a cup, then a tablespoonful of preserved 
fruit, then another small spoonful of batter on top 
and steam about three-quarters of an hour. Serve 
with cream or a sauce made with juice of fruit. 

MRS. STANTON. 

YANKEE SUET PUDDING. 

Three and one-half cups of flour, one cup suet 
chopped very fine, one cup molasses, one cup sweet 
milk, one egg, if cup is small, two if large, one tea- 



Puddings and Desserts. 101 

spoonful soda, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one very 
full cup of raisins, one very full cup of currants, two 
ounces of citron. Mix well flour and suet, add molas- 
ses, the milk with the soda dissolved in it, the well- 
beaten eggs and lastly the spice and well floured fruit. 
Beat well and tie loosely in a pudding cloth and 
steam three or four hours. Eat with j^udding sauce. 

E. HOOPES. 

SIX-CUP PUDDING. 

One cup brown sufar, one cup raisins, one cup 
bread crumbs, one cup milk, one cup flour, three- 
fourths cup chopped suet, scant teaspoonful baking 
soda. Mix well and steam until a rich brown (from 
three to four hours). Serve with brandy sauce. 

MRS. S. F JACKSON. 

POOR MAN'S PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup of suet, one cup raisins, one cup currants, 
one cup milk, one cup molasses, one cup flour, three 
cups bread crumbs, one teaspoonful soda, one tea- 
spoonful salt. Steam two or three hours. 

MRS. JOS. MAYER. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cold water, 
four eggs, beat the yolks of the eggs, add the lemon, 
sugar and water. Let thicken on the stove, stirring 
all the time, then stir in the beaten whites of the eggs, 
to which have been added two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Serve in sherbet glasses. 

ELIZABETH MINER. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

Chop fine one can of pineapple and boil with half 
pound of sugar. Strain and add half an ounce of 



102 Presbyterian Cook Booh. 



Knox's gelatine. When cool, stir in the beaten whites 
of three eggs and half pint of whipped cream, pour 
into a mold and set on ice. 

MRS. FREDERIC S. MERRICK. 

PINK DELIGHT. 

Into the whites of two eggs beaten stiff, beat two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and one cup of strawberry 
jam. If very sweet the sugar may be omitted. Set on 
ice until chilled. Serve in glasses. This simple dessert 
will delight the eye as well as the palate. 

MRS. R. S. EBERHARDT. 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

A cupful of milk, three tablespoonfuls of flour, two 
ounces of butter, half a cupful of sugar, an even tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, grated rind of half a lemon and 
three eggs, heat the milk to boiling, add butter, flour, 
sugar, cinnamon and boil until it falls away from the 
sides, stirring all the time; then remove from the 
stove. When cool add the yolks of the eges, one at a 
time, and lastly the stiffly beaten whites. Grease a 
two-quart baking dish, pour into it a quart of black- 
berries, stewed and sweetened ; cover with the above 
mixture and bake in a moderate oven three-quarters 
of an hour. Any other fruit may be substituted for 
the blackberries. J. E. McHATTIE. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Boil tart apples after they are pared and cored, rub 
the pulp through a colander, and sweeten it to taste. 
To a pint of pulp stir in lightlv the whites of three 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor with grated rind 
and juice of lemon, or with lemon or vanilla extract. 
Put this into a pudding dish and cover with the beaten 
whites of two or three eggs, sweetened and flavored. 
Color it in the oven. Serve with tream or a custard. 

MRS. F. S. READER. 



Puddings and Desserts. 103 



A GOOD PLAIN PUDDING. 

JNIelt half a cup of butter, add to it three-fourths 
of a cup of molasses. Beat in two well-whipped eggs, 
a cup of sour rriilk, a half teaspoonful of cinnamon and 
half a grated nutmeg. One teaspoonful of soda in 
two tablespoonfuls of boihng water. When thorough- 
ly mixed add three cups of flour. Turn into a greased 
pudding mould, fit on the too and steam for three 
hours. Eat hot, with any kind of sauce you like, 
either hard or liquid. ' L. M. WHITE. 



AMERICAN CREAM. 

Three pints of milk, four egers. one-half box of 
gelatine, sweeten and flavor to taste. Boil as custard. 
As it is taken from the fire stir in the whites beaten 
to a stiff froth. Pour into moulds and when cold eat 
with cream. MRS. R. S. KENNEDY. 



RAISIN PUDDING. 

, One-half cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, one egg, three-fourths cup of sweet milk, two 
cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
cup raisms. Steam one hour and a quarter. To be 
eaten with sauce. MRS. K. S. KENNEDY. 



GELATINE JELLY. 

One package Cox"s gelatine, one cup granulated 
sugar, one teaspoonful extract lemon, one teaspoon- 
ful pulverized citric acid, or juice of one lemon. Soak 
gelatine in cup of cold water until soft, then add su- 
gar, acid and lemon extract; pour on it three pints 
of boiling water. Stir till all is dissolved, then strain 
and put in a cold place to set. 

MRS. R. L. KENAH. 



104 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

PEACH SHORT CAKE. 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, two cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of bakino^ powder, two tablespoon- 
fuls of lard, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one cup of 
milk. Bake in flat pan and when done cut in squares 
and serve with peaches. 

MRS. E. AUTENREITH. 



PINEAPPLE SHORT CAKE. 

Take two cups of sifted flour with two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, mix well, rub in one cup of 
butter and mix with a cup of sweet milk, and roll it 
out into two layers to fit in one tin, butter between 
layers and bake. For filling grate one pineapple, add 
half its weight in pulverized sugar, stir together thor- 
oughly and put between layers. 

MRS. CLARENCE HALL CORBUS. 



PRUNE PUDDING. 

Stew prunes till tender, sweeten, take one cup of 
the seeded prunes, cut in rather small pieces, mix one 
well-beaten white of egg. Put in pudding pan, cover 
with white of one &%?,, sweetened and brown. Eat 
cold with cream. 

MRS. WM. W. WILSON. 



APPLE CUSTARD. 

Put a cup of milk into a double boiler. Mix to- 
gether the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and one tablespoonful of flour and add them to 
the milk when boiling. Stir over a fire until it 
thickens. Place four apples which have been cut in 
quarters and cooked until tender, in a pudding pan ; 
pour over them the custard. Make a meringue with 
the whites of two eggs and two' tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar. Place this in spoonfuls on the top 
and brown in the oven. M. B. McHATTIE. 



Puddiii-gs and Dessetts. 105 



GINGER PUDDING. 

One egg, one cup of molasses, one-half cup of 
butter, one-half cup of fruit, raisins, or currants, one- 
half cup of hot water, one-half tablespoonful of gin- 
ger, one teaspoonful of soda. Flotir to make it stiff 
and steam one hour. 

SAUCE. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, one-third cup of but- 
ter, one tablespoonful of flour. Pour boiling water 
in and make like thin starch and flavor. 

LUTA C. NANNAH. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Two large oranges pared and cut in pieces one 
inch square, put in bottom of pudding dish, pour over 
them one cup white sugar, then make a plain corn- 
starch pudding" without sugar, and pour it over the 
orange and sugar. Let stand and cool. 

MRS. JOHN BOYD. 

MAPLE SAUCE. 

Two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, one heap- 
ing tablespoonful of flour. Mix butter and flour to- 
gether until smooth, pour enough boiling water into 
this (stirring all the time) to make about the consist- 
ency of thick cream, then add one cup of maple su- 
gar. Beat one egg until light, pour the boiling mixt- 
ure over the egg gradually, beating constantly. 

HARRIET BOYD. 



106 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



Puddings and Desserts. 107 



108 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



PIES. 

" The eating of tarts is no inelegant pleasure. " 

—Sir Walter Scott. 

PIE CRUST. 

Two auarts of sifted flour, sift again with four 
level teaspoonfiils of baking powder, and a teaspoon- 
ful salt, weigh three-fourths of a pound lard and 
work into the flour, then cup through butter the size 
of a large egg, in small bits. Put this away, and 
when wanting to make a pie just wet enough with 
very cold water to make one or two pies as desired. 
I mix this quantity, because easier to proportion 
shortening, and nice to have ready to use in a hurrv. 

MRS. E. C. KENNEDY. ' 

PLAIN PASTE. 

Three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
cupful of shortening, one cupful of ice water. Put the 
flour in a bowl, add the salt and shortening. Cut the 
shortening in small pieces and distribute through the 
flour. Add the water gradually and carefully, so as 
not to make the paste too moist. Turn the paste out 
on the board and roll in a long sheet. Fold and roll 
again. Repeat the process until you have a smooth 
paste. It is then ready to use. 

MISS CORNELIUS. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

For a very nice custard pie, line a cake pan of 
inch depth with crust. Make hot a quart of new 
milk, beat in a dish that will hold the milk, five eggs, 
a cup of sugar, pinch of salt, vanilla and nutmeg for 



110 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

flavor. I like the blending of two flavors in many 
things. Pour on the eggs and sugar, the hot milk, 
stir well, and cut in four or five bits of butter. Pour 
in your crust and bake. 

MRS. E. C. KENNEDY. 

POTATO CUSTARD PIE. 

One pound of potato rubbed through a sieve, two 
cups granulated sugar, one-half pound butter, 
creamed with the sugar, six eggs, whites and yolks 
beaten separately, the juice of one lemon squeezed 
into the potato while hot one-fourth nutmeg grated. 
Line a pie pan with paste, dust with flour and bake 
Hke pumpkin pie. MRS. JOS. MAYER. 

POTATO CUSTARD PIE. 

Six potatoes boiled and beaten white, piece of 
butter the size of an egg, four eggs, one and one-half 
cups of sugar, one-half a nutmeg grated. Beat 
whites and volks separately. Bake in open crust. 
MRS. G. E. APPLETON. 

CREAM PIE. 

One pint milk, yolks of three eggs, one large ta- 
blespoonful of cornstarch, one-half cup sugar, tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Put milk and sugar on in double 
boiler. Mix cornstarch and eggs with little cold 
milk, then pour into hot milk, stirring all the time 
till thick. When done add vanilla, and pour into a 
crust which has been baked before. Put' beaten 
whites on top and brown. 

MRS. E. P. TOWNSEND. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One pint of pumpkin (Hubbard), one pint of milk, 
a pinch of salt, one pint of good cream, two eggs, cin- 
namon, ginger and sugar, cook the pumpkin until 
soft, then pour off and mash and cook a long-time. 



Pies. Ill 

stirring occasionally. Then add the other ingre- 
dients to the pint of pumpkin, strain and make with 
under crust only. Should be made an inch thick of 
the pumpkin custard. 

:\IRS. A. A. KENNEDY. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One-half pound sugar, one-fourth pound butter, 
yolks of four eggs, one cup sweet milk, one cup 
grated cocoanut. ^lix and pour into pan lined with 
pastry, then whip the whites of the four eggs, to 
which add two tablespoonfuls sugar, spread on top 
and brown lightlv. ' A. D. McKIBBEN. 



LEMON CREAM PIE. 

One large lemon, one cup sugar, yolks of two 
eggs, one pint milk, one tablespoonful butter. Add 
lemon juice and grated rind when cream is partly 
cooked. Bake crust separately pricking thickly with 
a fork, so they will not blister. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and add two-thirds of a cup sugar, spread 
over the pies and bake till light broWn in a very slow 
oven. MRS. ALVERSON. 



LEMON FILLING FOR TWO PIES. 

Two cups of sugar, a pinch of salt, three heaping 
tablespoonfuls cornstarch, stir these well together in 
their dry state ; then a piece of butter the size of an 
egg or a little more. Grate in the rind of a large 
lemon and squeeze in the juice. Add the yolks of two 
or three eggs and stir until smooth. Then add a quart 
of boiling water and cook in a double boiler until 
thoroughly cooked. Pour this into the baked shells 
and beat up the whites, to which add a tablespoonful 
of pulverized sugar, put this in the lemon filling and 
place in the oven to brown. 

MRS. V L. BRADFORD. 



112 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



LEMON PIE. 

For two pies take two cups of white sugar, one- 
half a cup of butter, three cups of sweet milk, the 
yolks of six eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, three 
soda crackers rolled ; grate the rind and squeeze the 
juice of three lemons, cream the butter and sugar, 
add the yolks, then flour and crackers alternately 
with the milk, lastly the lemons. Beat whites of eggs 
stiff and add last or mix with three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, spread over pies when baked, then brown 
lightly. MRS. T. SIDNEY WHITE. 

LEMON PIE. 

Bake a crust, and have ready for the following fill- 
ing : Two eggs, keep out white of one, one cup su- 
gar. Mix eggs and sugar well together, grated rind 
and juice of one large lemon, one cup boiling water. 
Stir this mixture until it boils, then add one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, mixed with water. 
Boil a few minutes, then fill in crust. Beat white to 
a froth, add a little sugar, spread on pie, and brown. 
Use same filling for tarts. 

MRS. S. P. JACKSON. 

LEMON PIE. 

Juice of two lemons, two cups boiling water, two 
tablespoonfuls cornstarch (good size), dissolved in 
cold water, two large cups sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, two eggs. Cook the constarch and add the 
other ingredients. Bake with under crust only and 
put a meringue on top lierhtly browned. 

MRS. A. A. KENNEDY. 

PEACH CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a pie plate with paste and bake it. Put one 
cupful of milk into a double boiler. Mix together the 
yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
one tablespoonful of flour and add them to the milk 
when boihng. Stir over a fire' until it thickens. When 



_ _ Pies. 113 

the paste is baked fill it with nice canned peaches. 
Pour over these the custard. Make a meringue with 
the whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of granu- 
lated sugar. Place this in spoonfuls on the pie and 
brown in the oven. 

MRS. F. S. READER. 



ORANGE CREAM PIE. 

Beat thoroughly the yolks of two eggs with one- 
half cup of sugar, add one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour, one even tablespoonful of cornstarch and a 
pinch of salt ; pour into one pint of boiling milk and 
let it cook about three minutes ; let cool and flavor 
with extract orange and put into a baked crust. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, add one-half cup of sugar, 
flavor with orange, spread on top and brown lightly. 
Can use any other flavor desired. 

IRENE PUGH. 



RAISIN TARTS. 

Make a good pie crust, roll out as for pie and cut 
into rounds as large as a saucer. Chop one cup rais- 
ins and one cup currants, and add one cup sugar, one 
egg and juice of one lemon. Spread mixture on one- 
half of the rounds, fold over the other and make 
edges stick by moistening and press edges together 
with a fork. MRS. HOLMES. 



RHUBARB MERINGUES. 

Line pan with pastry, stir together two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup of chop- 
ped rhubarb, beaten yOlks of two eggs and two table- 
spoonfuls water, fill pan with mixture and bake 20 
minutes in moderate oven. Make meringue of the 
whites of the eggs and spread over top and set in 
oven to brown. • MRS. McCULLOUGH. 



114 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



MINCE MEAT. 

Two pounds of meat, after chopping, one pound 
of suet after chopping, three pounds apples ready for 
chopping, one pound raisins, seeded and cut in two, 
one pound currants, one-fourth pound citron, two 
pounds white sugar, three pints of boiled down 
cider, three teaspoonfuls or more of cinna- 
mon if liked, one small teasnoonful of cloves and nut- 
meg, two teaspoonfuls ginger and salt to season, one- 
half pint of sherry wine one wine glass of brandy. 
Any fruit juices, such as cherries, or spiced peaches, 
are an addition. Mix well and thin when using with 
hot water. MRS. E. C. KENNEDY. 

"MOTHER'S" MINCE MEAT. 

Two pounds lean beef, boiled very tender, and 
chopped fine, one pound suet and five pounds (about 
five pints) apples, each chopped fine, three pounds 
rai&ins, a little citron, one grated nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful each ground cloves, allspice and salt, two 
and one-half pounds brown sugar, one pint (or more) 
boiled cider. If too sweet add a little vinegar. Keep 
in a cool place. .• MRS. SWAN. 



Pies. 



115 



116 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



CAKES. 

" The making of the cake, the heating of the o'ben, and the 
baking. Nay, you must stay the cooling, too, or you may chance 
to burn your mouth. " — Shakespeare. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Beat one cup of butter to a cream, add one and 
a half cups of flour, and stir very thoroughly to- 
gether, then add one cup of cornstarch and one cup 
of milk in which three teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
have been dissolved; last add the beaten whites of 
eight eggs and two cups of sugar well beaten to- 
gether. Flavor to taste, bake in sheets, and put to- 
gether with white icing. MRS. MYLER. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups granu- 
lated or powdered sugar, three-fourths of a cup milk, 
two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one- 
fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar, one teaspoonful 
vanilla. Cream the butter thoroughly, add sugar 
gradually, then alternately, the dry ingredients 
(which have been sifted together), and the milk and 
last the beaten whites and flavoring. Bake in shal- 
low pans, about 20 minutes, and put marshmallow 
cream between the layers and on top. Put your 
hand in the oven and count 15 as a test. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM. 

Three-fourths of a cup sup"ar, one-fourth of a cup 
milk, one-fourth pound marshmallows (about 23), two 
tablespoonfuls hot water, one-half teaspoonful vanilla. 
Place the sugar and milk in a sauce pan, heat slowly 



118 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

to the boiling point (without stirring) and boil exact- 
ly six minutes. Break the marshmallows in pieces- 
and place in the upper part of a double boiler. Add 
the hot water and cook until smooth, then add the 
syrup a few drops at a time, stirring constantly. 

Beat until cool enouarh to spread, then add the 
vanilla. MRS. T. E. MARSHELL. 

COCOANUT POUND CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup 
milk, five eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, one teaspoonful 
soda and two of cream of tartar stirred into four cups 
of sifted flour. Beat butter and sugar very light, then 
add the beaten yolks, then the milk the whites of eggs 
and flour by degrees. Add a small cocoanut grated. 
Line the cake pans with buttered paper and bake in a 
moderate oven. MRS. AIARY SLOANE. 

BISQUE CAKE. 

Cream together with hand two cups pulverized su- 
gar and one scant cup butter, add one full cup milk. 
Stir in slowly three cups flour sifted, froth whites of 5 
eggs. Put two teaspoonfuls of baking powder (Royal), 
in the dough in the lightest manner possible. Avoid 
stirring dough after putting , in the baking powder. 
Add the whites of the eggs last, chopping them into 
the dough lightly instead of stirring. Use very little 
vanilla flavoring. Bake in three layers. 

ICING. 

Beat the yolks of five eggs well, add pulverized 
sugar until you have a stiff frosting. Take one cup 
hickory nut kernels, roll fine and stir in icing. Flavor 
with little vanilla. Ice each layer and top. Put in 
©ven a few seconds to dry. MRS. SWAN. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One pound brown sugar, one pound flour, one cup 
butter, four eggs, one cup strong liquid coffee, with 



Cakes. ' 119 

one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in it, one pound 
raisins, one-half pound citron, two tablespoonfuls 
ground cloves, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 

MRS. E. P TOWNSEND. 

MARTHA'S CAKE. 

Six eggs, two cups of sugar, three-fourths of a 

cup of butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk, two cups of 

flour with which has been sifted two teaspoonfuls of 

baking powder. Bake in layers and use boiled icing 

, for the filling. 

MRS. CHARLES A. BARKER. 

PRINCE OF WALES CAKE. 

Dark Part — Three-fourths cup butter, one and one- 
half cups brown sugar, three-fourths cup milk, three 
cups flour, one and one-half cups chopped raisins, 
three tablespoonfuls molasses, yolks of five eggs, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls cinnamon, three-fourths 
teaspoonful cloves, two measures baking powder. 

White Part— Three-fourths cup butter, one and 
one-half cups pulverized sugar, three-fourths of a cup 
milk, three cups flour, whites of five eggs, two meas- 
ures baking powder, flavor to taste. This makes four 
layers. Put together with boiled icing in alternate 
layers, putting a white layer of cake on the top. 

MRS. JOHN P. SHERWOOD. 

COCOANUT LOAF CAKE. 

Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, 
add the yOlks of five eggs, beat thoroughly and add 
gradually, beating all the while, one pound of granu- 
lated sugar. When very light add slowly a half pint 
of sweet milk. Sift two and a half cups of pastry 
flour with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stifif froth. Now add to 
the mixture half a package of Dunham's Cocoanut, 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and the grated rind 



120 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



of half a lemon. Beat well and add alternately the 
flour and white of egg. Pour into two flat loread 
pans, dust the top thickly with powdered sugar and 
cocoanut and bake in a moderate oven three-quarters 
ot an hour. 'M. B. McHATTIE. 



MARBLE CAKE. 

Light Part- — One cup of white sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, one-half cup milk, whites of three eggs, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of McCaw's baking powder, 
two cups of flour. 

Dark Part — One-half cup brown sugar, one-fourth 
cup butter, one-half cup molasses, yolks three eggs, 
one-fourth cup milk, one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
McCaw's baking powder, one teaspoonful alspice, 
one-half nutmeg, two cups flour. 

MRS. J. W. HOLLAND. 



JASPER CAKE. 

Cream one cup butter and two cups sugar, add 
beaten yolks of five eggs, one cup sour milk, two and 
one-half cups flour, one-half cake chocolate melted, 
one level teaspoonful soda dissolved in tablespoonful 
hot water, then beaten whites of eggs, one teaspoonful 
vanilla. MRS. C. A. PENTZ. 



COFFEE CAKE. 

One quart of bread dough, three eggs, one-half 
cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar. Knead all to- 
gether, and set to rise. When raised very light turn 
out on bread board, and roll about one-half inch 
thick. Put in square layer cake pans, then spread 
with butter, and sift granulated sugar, and ground 
cinnamon on the butter. Allow to raise very light, 
then bake in a quick oven. Nice for breakfast or 
lunch with coffee. MRS. MYLER. 



Cakes. 121 

WALNUT CAKE. 

Three eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of 
butter, beaten to a cream, one cupful of milk, three 
cupfuls of sifted flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, add one pound of English walnuts, broken 
up, bake either in solid or layers. 

MRS. CLAREXCE HALL CORBUS. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups pow- 
dered sugar, one-half cup of milk, one-half cup of 
cornstarch, one and one-half cups of flour, two level 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-half teaspoonful 
of vanilla, the whites of six eggs. Beat the butter to 
a cream, add gradually the sugar, beating all the 
while. Then the milk alternately with the flour to 
keep from curdling. Stir in lightly the beaten whites 
of the egffs the last thing before putting into the 
pans. Bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. This 
makes enough batter for two layers. 

FILLING— BOILED ICING. 

Two cups granulated sugar, the whites of two 
eggs, citric acid the size of a pea, a few drops of va- 
nilla. Barely cover the sugar with water and boil un- 
til it hardens in water. Pour.it slowly into the beaten 
whites of &gg, beating hard all the time.' Add the cit- 
ric acid dissolved in a few drops of hot water and the 
vanilla. Beat until cool enough and of the proper 
consistency to spread on the cake. 

MRS. CHARLES A. BARKER. 

JAM CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, three eggs, two- 
thirds of a cup butter, two cups flour, one cup jam, 
one teaspoonful cinnamon- one-half teaspoonful 
cloves, one nutmeg, seven tablespoonfuls sour milk, 
one teaspoonful soda, bake in layers and frost. 

MRS. FISHER. 



122 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



CARAMEL CAKE. 

Three eggs, two scant cups .powdered sugar, one- 
half scant cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, three 
cups flour, three teaspooonfuls baking powder, two 
squares chocolate. Dissolve chocolate in a little hot 
water. Bake in layers. 



BOILED ICING. 

One scant cup of granulated sugar, five table- 
spoonfuls boiling water. Cook until it threads from 
the spoon. Beat the white of one egg very light and 
pour the hot svrup in gently, beating until stiff. 
MRS. R. L. KENAH, JR. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound 
flour, lo eggs, one-half large nutmeg, cream, butter 
and sugar, break two eggs at a time into your batter, 
until six are in, separate the other four and add the 
yolks to batter and beat hard then add flour, and 
lastly the four beaten whites and bake one and three- 
fourth hours. Cover your pan the first half hour. 

S. M. KENNEDY. 

NUT CAKE. 

t 

One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
brown sugar, two eggs, or yolks of four, one cup of 
buttermilk, three cups of flour, one even teaspoonful 
of soda, four tablespoonfuls of molasses, one cup of 
raisins, one cup of hickory nuts. Nutmeg and cinna- 
mon to taste. MRS. WM. W. WILSON. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

A cup of butter, two of suear, three of flour, one of 
sweet milk, whites of seven and yolks of two eggs, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder one pint of 
hickory nut meats, rolled and sprinkled with flour, 
beat the whites to a stiff froth. L. M. WHITE. 



Cakes. 123 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One egg, one-half cup butter, one-half cup brown 
sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup strong 
coflee, one-half pound of seeded raisins, one-half tea- 
spoonful cloves, one-half teaspoonful nutmeg, one- 
half teaspoonful soda, two cups of flour. 

MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

One cup butter Judges, 5:25; three and one-half 
cups flour, I. Kings, 4:22 ; three cups sugar, Jeremiah, 
6:20; two cups raisins, I. Samuel, 30:12; two cups 
figs, I. Samuel, 30:12 ; one cup water. Genesis, 24-17 : 
one cup almonds. Genesis, 43:11; six eggs, Isaiah, 
10:14; one tablespoonful honey, Exodus, 16:31; a 
pinch of salt, Leviticus, 2 :i3 ; spices to taste, I. Kings, 
10:10. Follow Solomon's advice in Proverbs, 23:14, 
for making good boys, and you will have a good cake. 
MRS. THOMAS W. SWAN. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Whites of eight fresh eggs, beaten about half, add 
one even teaspoonful cream of tartar, then beat until 
stiff, one and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of flour, 
flavor with one small tablespoonful of lemon juice. 
Bake in a slow oven. MRS. J. W. HOLLAND. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Eight eggs, the weight of seven eggs in sugar and 
of four in flour, juice and grated rind of small lemon. 
Beat the yolks very light and add sugar graduallv, 
beating all the time. Then, add the whites, which Jiave 
been beaten very light, then lemon, and lastly the 
flour, stirred in quickly and lightly. The flour should 
be sifted two or three times. MRS. STANTON. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, one goblet sugar, one goblet flour, one 
fresh lemon. Beat eggs separately until very Hght, 
then put them together and beat. Grate into this the 



124 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

rind of small lemon and use a little of the juice. Add 
gradually the sugar, beating all the time. After it is 
beaten very light add the flour, then only beating 
enough to mix it well. Bake from three quarters to 
an hour. JNIRS. E. P. TOWNSEND. 

BOILED SUGAR SPONGE CAKE. 

Seven eggs, one-half pound flour, three-fourths of 
a pound sugar, seven tablespoonfuls cold water. Boil 
sugar and water until clear. Pour on the eggs in a 
large bowl, beating hard for twenty minutes ; add the 
flour very lightly, but do not beat. Flavor to taste. 
Bake in loaf or bars from 30 to 40 minutes. 

MRS. THOMAS W. SWAN. 

HOT MILK SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar (scant), two cups flour, 
beaten together five minutes, to which add one-half 
cup hot milk and two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

A. D. McKIBBEN. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Yolks of five eggs, five tablespoonfuls of water, 
two cups sugar, two cups flour, one teaspoonful of 
' baking powder, whites of six eggs. 

MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

One and one-fourth cup granulated sugar, one 
and one-half cups flour, two small teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls boiling water 
and a pinch of salt. Cream yolks and sugar together, 
add beaten whites then flour and baking powder, add 
water and stir briskly. MRS. C. A. PENTZ. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, two scant cups granulated sugar, two 
scant cups sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls of g'ood bak- 
ing powder, and four tablespoonfuls of cold water. 



Cakes. 125 

Beat yolks slightly, add sugar and beat hard, add 
water, flour, bakhig powder and flavoring, mix well, 
add stiffly beaten whites, stirring lightly. Have ready 
a greased pan which has been well dusted with flour 
and thesurplus beaten out by tapping it upside down. 
Pour in the batter and bake in a quick oven till the 
cake leaves the side of the pan, that is a test I have 
never known to fail. MRS. WM. LLOYD. 

GRAND RAPIDS SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, beat three minutes, add three cupfuls of 
granulated sugar, beat five minutes, add two cupfuls 
of flour, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, and 
one cupful of cold water. Then add one and a half 
cupfuls of flour with which has been sifted two tea- 
sooonfuls of baking powder. 

MRS. CHARLES A. BARKER. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, three-fourths of a cup but- 
ter, three cups flour, mixed with three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, three-fourths of a cup sweet milk, 
whites of six eggs and one pint of nuts rolled fine. 

MRS. WM. LLOYD. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds currants, two pounds raisins, one 
pound citron, one and one-half pounds sugar', light 
weight, one pound butter, one dozen esfgs, one tea- 
spoonful clove;s, two of cinnamon, four nutmegs^ one 
cup molasses one-half glass wine, one-half glass 
brandy, one small teaspoonful soda, two pounds flour. 
Bake four hours. MRS. WM. LLOYD. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

To one cup of butter, two cups granulated sugar, 
beaten to a cream, add one cup of sweet milk, three 
and a half cups sifted flour, two and a half teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. To this add the whites of five 



126 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

eggs beaten stiff, stir into this batter one grated co- 
coanut, one-half pound English walnuts and one-half 
pound almonds blanched and chopped fine, one 
pound citron sliced thin and well dredged with flour. 
Bake in a moderate oven. JEAN McHATTIE, 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two cups butter, four cups sugar, two cups sour 
cream, eight cups flour, eight eggs, one tablespoon- 
fuls soda, two tablespoonfuls cloveS' two tablespoon- 
fuls cinnamon, four pounds raisins, four pounds cur- 
rants, two pounds almonds, two pouncls figs, one 
pound citron, two nutmegs, two lemons, cut fine, one 
gill brandy, bake four hours. 

, MRS. H. T. BARKER. 

RAISED FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter, one cup milk, one cup yeast or one 
yeast cake, two pounds fruit, two cups sugar, one 
pound nuts chopped fine, four eggs, four cups flour, 
teaspoonful soda, one nutmeg. Raise over night, bake 
in morning. ELLEN T. EDGAR. 

CHEAP FRUIT CAKE. 

One cupful of sour milk, it must be thick and the 
cream should be left in, one cupful of brown sugar, 
one cupful of raisins seeded and chopped, one-fourth 
cupful of butter, two cupfuls of flour, one level tea- 
spoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful each of ground 
cinnamon, cloves and alspice, and a little nutmeg. It 
must bake nearly an hour, slowlv. or it will burn. 

MRS. SCHWEPPE. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one 
pound citron, one and one-half pounds sugar, two 
pounds flour, one pound butter, 12 eggs, one tea- 



Cakes. \T1 

spoonful cloves two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, four 
teaspoonfuls nutmeg, one teacup molasses, one-half 
a glass of wine or brandy, one small teaspoonful soda. 

MRS. G. E. APPLETON. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound each of sup-ar, butter and flour, lo 
eggs, one pound raisins, two pound's currants, one- 
half pound citron, one teaspoonful cloves, nutmeg, 
mace and cinnamon, one lemon, peel and juice, one- 
half cup molasses two teasooonfuls baking powder. 
Bake in two pans from one and a half to two hours. 

S. M. HUNTER. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Whites of eleven eggs beaten stiff, one and one- 
half cups of granulated sugar, sifted, and one cup of 
flour, with a teaspoonful of cream of tartar sifted four 
times, then add one teaspoonful vanilla. 

MRS. E. AUTENREITH. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

One cup of white of egg, add one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar and beat until light, add one and one- 
half cups of granulated sugar and one cup of flour, 
sifted four times, stir in carefully, add one teaspoonful 
of almond extract. Put in ungreased pan and bake in 
a slow oven. MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Whites of nine large eggs, one heaping cup fine 
granulated sugar, one cup flour, beat flour and sugar 
five times before measuring, one-half teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, a pinch of salt, one-half teaspoonful 
each of lemon and vanilla, seoarate eggs, add salt 
and cream of tartar and whites and beat until stiff, add 
sugar and flavoring, beat thoroughly, fold in flour. 
Put in slow oven at once. Bake 40 to 50 rninutes. 
Invert pan and cool when cake is done. 

MRS. R. L. KENAH. 



128 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

One cup grated chocolate, one-half cup milk or 
cold coffee, one cup brown sugar, yolk of one ^%%, 
one teaspoonful vanilla, cook to a cream. Let cool, 
add to the following : One cup brown sugar, one-half 
cup butter, one-half cup milk or coffee, two eggs, two 
cups flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful soda. MRS. RICHEY. 



DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Beat two cupS' of granulated sugar and half a cup 
of butter to a cream. Beat three eggs, saving out the 
white of one for icing. One teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in half cup of sour milk, two' cups of flour (be- 
fore sifting), one-half teaspoonful baking powder', 
dissolve one-half cake Baker's chocolate in almost 
one cup boiling water, add last (when cool). Flavor 
with vanilla and bake in lavers. 

MRS. T. J. FIDDLER. 



DEVIL'S FOOD. 

One-half cake of chocolate, melted in steam, one 
cup of milk stirred into chocolate. Set this to one 
side. Then mix two scant cups of pulverized sugar, 
one-half cup of butter and cream them thoroughly. 
Then add the yolks of four eggs- and stir in the milk 
and chocolate, adding one teaspoonful of vanilla and 
two cupfuls of flour, which ha;s been thoroughly sifted 
through with two teasnoonfuls of baking powder. 
For the filling, or icing, take two cups of sugar moist- 
ened-thoroughly with one-half cUp of water. Let boil 
until 'it threads from the spoon, stirring often. Then 
add 'one-half pound of' figs arid one heaping cUpful of 
raisins chopped verv fine with the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a froth. 'Beat until it begins to whiten, then 
spread between the layers. MRS. WM. LLOYD. 



Cakes. 129 

BLACKBERRY CAKE. 

Six eggs, four of the whites for icing, one cup of 
butter, two cups of sugar, two cups of preserved 
blackberries or jam, two-thirds of a cup sour cream, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon nutmeg, two teas- 
poons allspice, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon 
cloves, flour to make good, stiff batter. Bake in lay- 
ers with icing between. 

MRS. A. W. GROSCOST. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter or lard, 
three eggs, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful 
soda. 

FOR THE FILLING. 

Use ,one grated cocoanut, add to half of it the 
whites of eggs well beaten and one cup of pulverized 
sugar, spread this between the layers. Mix with the 
other half of cocoanut four tablespoons of sugar and 
strew thickly on top of the cake. 

MRS. C. N. GROSCOST. 

^ WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup of butter 
beat to a cream, one cup of cold water, three cups of 
flour, three teaspoonfuls baking: powder, whites of 
four eggs. Flavor with lemon. 

MRS. C. N. GROSCOST. 

TAYLOR CAKES. 

One pint molasses, six ounces butter, six ounces 
sugar, melt together, four eggs, one-half pint milk, one 
and one-half pounds flour, one teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful soda, add soda last, two spoonfuls cinnamon, 
two spoonfuls allspice, two spoonfuls ginger. 

MRS. WM. LLOYD. 



130 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

TAYLOR CAKES. 

Four ee^s, one pint molasses, three-eiafhths of a 
pound of butter, one-eighth of a pound sugar, one- 
half pint milk, one and one-half pounds of flour, one 
ounce soda, two teaspoonfuls of ginger. 

MRS. STUCHFIELD. 



TAYLOR CAKES. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-half 
cup sour milk, two eggs, one tablespoonful butter, 
one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful cinnamon, 
two tablespoonfuls ginger, one heaping pint flour. 
Drop on buttered pans and bake. M. B. C. 



TAYLOR CAKES. 

Nearly one pint molasses, one cup sugar, one-half 
cup water, one cup lard, one teasooonful soda, four 
eggs, cinnamon and ginger. Mix stiff enough to 
drop. MRS. FISHER. 



GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of molasses, one cud of butter, two cups 
sugar, one cup sour cream, three cups flour, four 
eggs, one teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
soda. MRS. STUCHFIELD. 



IMPROVED GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, one and one-half cups brown 
sugar, one cup lard. Boil together and set away to 
cool, three eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 
one cup sour milk, one small tablespoonful of soda 
(dissolve soda in sour milk)- four cups flour, one 
tablespoonful of ginger and a little grated nutmeg. 
Bake in a large square pan about 45 minutes. 

MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 



Cakes. 131 

GINGER WAFERS. 

Boil one cup molasses, then cool and add two tea- 
spoonfuls of soda and two tablespoonfuls of water. 
INIix one cup butter, three-fourths cup sugar, and two 
eggs. Then add molasses, one tablespoonful of gin- 
ger, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon and half a nut- 
meg; stiffen with flour, roll verv thin and bake in a 
quick oven. MRS. F. ENGLEFIELD. 



GINGER CAKE. 

One coffee cup of butter, one coffee cup of granu- 
lated sugar, one coffee cup of Orleans molasses, one 
coffee cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful soda (scant), 
two teaspoonfuls ginger, two teaspoonfuls cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful cloves. A little grated nut- 
meg, three cups of flour, before sifting, four eggs. 
Bake in a moderate oven. Cream, butter and sugar 
then put all the other ingredients in and stir well. 

M. READ. 



GINGER DROP COOKIES. 

■Three eggs, one cup of lard, one cup of molasses, 
one and one-half cups of brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in a tea cup of boiling water, five and one-half 
cups of flour. ;\fix thoroughly and drop a table- 
spoonful in a greased pan and bake quickly. 

^IRS. C. N. GROSCOST. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

Mix together one tablespoonful of butter and two 
cups of pulverized sugar, break into that two eggs, 
then add one brimful cup of milk and a pinch of salt 
five cups of flour, and three heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Use a tin measuring cup. 

MRS. GRAHAM. 



132 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

GOOD DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sour milk (butter- 
milk is the best), four tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, three eggs. . Flour to 
make a soft dough. MRS. WM. W. WILSON. 



RISEN DOUGHNUTS. 

Scald one pint of milk, when lukewarm add six 
ounces of butter, melted- four eggs well beaten, one 
large, full cup of sugar, one-half cup of yeast, and suf- 
ficient flour to make a sponge. Beat well and stand 
in a warm place for about three hours. It is best to 
make this sponge early in the evening or late after- 
noon, so that it can be kneaded before going to bed. 
When the sponge is light add sufficient flour to make 
a soft dough, knead lightly, cover and stand in a warm 
place over night. In the morning roll out carefully 
without kneading, place carefully on a floured cloth. 
Let stand one hour and fry in smoking hot fat. Al- 
ways drop the doughnuts so that the side exposed to 
the air will be downward when in the fat. 

E. HOOPES. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs, beaten lierht, two cups of sugar, five 
heaping teaspoonfuls of sour cream or three of melted 
butter. One and one-half cups of sour milk, one 
heaping teaspoonful of soda and one of baking pow- 
der or cream of tartar. MRS. F. W. WALKER. 



CRULLERS. 

Two tea cups sugar, one pint milk, four table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, four eggs, a little salt, one 
teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, a 
little nutmeg, flour enourh to roll out. 

MRS. WM. P. TOWNSEND. 



Cakes. 133 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two little squares Baker s chocolate, yolk of one 
egg, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup milk, boil to- 
gether, let cool and stir into the cake. Cake part, 
two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
White icing between. MRS. ALVERSON. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs, 
saving white of one for icing, one teaspoonful soda 
dissolved in one-half cup sour milk three cups of flour, 
one-half teaspoonful baking powder. Dissolve one- 
half cake of sweet chocolate in almost a cup of boil- 
ing water, add when cold. Flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. J. W. HOLLAND. 

"LITTLE CAKES." 

One cup of butter, two cups of pulverized su- 
gar, four eggs (whites beaten light and put in last), 
one cup of milk, three and one-half cups of flour, 
three small teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a few 
drops of vanilla, the yolks only of eight eggs may be 
used or the yolks of five and the whites of three, us- 
ing the- two other whites for the icing. 

MRS. H. L. SCHWEPPE. 

GOLDEN JUMBLES. 

One-half pound butter, one-half pound sugar, one 
pound flour, two eggs, four teaspoonfuls of water, 
one 'and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, salt 
and flavoring. Handle lightly, roll thin and bake in a 
quick oven. Very good. 

MRS. EMMA SCHEITERLEIN. 

DOLLY VARDEN CAKt. 

One-half cup butter two cups sugar, one cup milk, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar, three cups of flour, divide batter in 



134 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



three parts bake- two pans, and to the one add one 
cup raisins, one cup currants one-half cup flour, 
three tablespoonfuls molasses, one teaspoonful cin- 
namon, one teaspoonful allspice, one teaspoonful cloves, 
one-half teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little hot water. 
Bake slowly till it leaves the pan around the edge. 

MRS. EMMA SCHEITERLEIN. 

CURRANT CAKES. 

One pound flour, one-half pound butter, three- 
fourths of a pound sugar, four eg-gs, one-half pound 
currants, well washed and dredsfed, one-half teaspoon- 
ful soda dissolved in hot water one-half lemon 
grated rind and juice, one teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Drop from a spoon on a well-buttered pan and bake 
in a moderate oven. E. HOOPES- 

COOKIES. 

Three eggs, two coffee cups of granulated sugar, 
one cup lard and one cup of butter, one-half nutmeg, 
one coffee cup sour milk, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
three teaspoonfuls baking powder, flour to make as 
stiff as pie dough, roll out very thin and sprinkle sugar 
over the dough, cut out and bake quickly. 

MRS. C. N. GROSCOST. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

One and orie-half cups chocolate (grated), one 
and one-half cups sugar, three eggs, one-half tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, one-half ground cloves. Beat 
very hard before using flour. Use enough flour to 
drop. MRS. T. E. MARSHELL. 

BOSTON COOKIES. 

Three-fourths of a cup of butter, three cups flour, 
one and one-half cups sugar, one cup chopped wal- 
nuts, one-half cup currants, one-half cup chopped 
raisins, three eggs, one-half teasooonful salt, one tea- 



Cakes. 135 

spoonful soda, one of cinnamon and one and one-half 
tablesp.oonfuls hot water. Cream the butter and su- 
gar and well beaten eggs. Dissolve the soda in the 
hot water. Mix the salt in half a cup of the flour and 
cinnamon, then add nuts and fruit and remainder of 
the flour. Bake in a thin sheet in a moderate oven 
and when cool cut in squares. MRS. HOLMES. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One egg, one-half cup brown sugar, one cup 
molasses one-half cup lard or butter, one-third cup 
sour milk, one and one-half teaspoonfuls soda, one 
teaspoonful ginger. Add other spices to suit the 
taste, mix soft, br-eak of? small piece of dough, roll 
and flatten with your hand, put on pan to bake. 

CHARLOTTA W. SEIPLE. 



CINNAMON CAKE. 

Take three-fourths cup butter, two cups white 
sugar, three eggs, beaten separately, one cup sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, three cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in 
large square pan one-half hour. Have ready mixture 
made of one-fourth cup melted butter, one-half cup 
powdered sugar, and one teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
put on cake as soon as taken from the oven. 

ANNIE. 

CINNAMON BUNS. 

One pint flour, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, one tablespoonful butter and suf- 
ficient milk to make a dough you can knead. Mix 
flour, salt and baking powder together, rub the butter 
into the flour and add milk. Turn out on the board 
and knead till smooth, roll into a sheet about one-half 
inch thick, spread with melted butter, one-half cup su- 
gar, cinnamon and currants or raisins, roll tightly and 



136 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

cut in pieces about two inches wide and stand them 
cut side up in a . deep baking pan that has been 
greased. Bake slowly about 4=5 minutes. 

MRS. W. C. McKINNEY. 

CINNAMON DROPS. 

One ^%^, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, 
one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk or water, two 
teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, 
one and one-half teaspoonfuls of ginger, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, three cups of flour. Mix well, put 
in muffin rings, and bake in a hot oven. 

MRS. MYLER. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup of molasses, iieated, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of butter and lard mixed, two teaspoonfuls of 
soda, ginger to taste, flour to make a stiff dough. 
Roll thin. . MRS. J. F. MINER. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Two quarts of flour, one large cup of butter, one 
pint of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, a little soda, 
spice to taste. MRS. R. S. KENNEDY. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses, one cup lard and one-half cup 
sugar, melted together, one tablespoonful ginger, one 
teaspoonful soda sifted with flour, sufficient to roll. 
Roll thin and bake in moderate oven. 

A. D. McKIBBEN. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one-half cup 
butter, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful gin- 
ger and any other spices desired, flour to make a stiff 
batter. Heat butter and molasses togrether, then mix 
other ingredients. A. D. McKIBBEN. 



Cakes. 137 

DROP CAKES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, 
one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, measured 
before sifting with two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. Cream butter and sugar and add eggs one at a 
time, beating thoroughly, then the milk and last the 
flour and baking powder. Drop in small spoonfuls 
in well greased pans, not too close together, and put 
two or three seeded raisins on the top of each. Bake 
a Hght brown. L. i\I. WHITE. ' 



ROCKS. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, one cup but- 
ter, three eggs, one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a 
little warm water, three cups flour, one and one-half 
cups chopped raisins, one cup chopped nuts, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, salt to taste. Drop about half 
teaspoonful of dough on parafine paper and bake 
like cookies. CHARLOTTA W. SEIPLE. 



SAND TARTS. 

Half a pound and half a quarter of butter, one 
pound granulated sugar, one pound sifted flour, two 
eggs, leaving out the whites of one, cream the butter, 
add the suear, then the eggs, well beaten, and then 
work in the flour so the dough is smooth and free 
from all appearance of flour. Set it in the cold to 
harden. Blanch half a pound of shelled almonds 
ahd slice them lengthwise of the almond. Take a 
small piece of dough and roll very, very thin, cut it 
into squares with a brass roll cutter, olace on pans. 
Beat the white of the ege stiff. Put a piece of the al- 
mond on top of the cake and with a brush put the egg 
over them, sprinkle with sugar and lastly with cinna- 
mon. They do not need a hot oven and must be 
watched closelv until they are a light brown. 

:n'Irs. henry a. Hutchinson. 



138 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 

Three cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of cream 
or milk, one-half cup of butter, boil ten minutes, then 
stir until thick enough to spread. 

MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 

Caramel icing. 

One pound of brown sugar, butter the size of a 
small egg, one-half cup of water. Boil until it will 
form a soft ball when dropped into cold water. Re- 
move from the fire and stir until it begins to grain,, 
then add a teaspoonful of vanilla and spread on cake. 

MRS. STANTON. 

SUGAR BISCUIT. 

Two cups sugar, one cup lard, two eggs, one cup 
buttermilk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, two 
small teaspoonfuls of soda. Add flour until stiff 
enough to roll. MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 

LOVE-IN-TANGLE. 

One egg, one tablespoonful sugar, one table- 
spoonful cream, flour to roll out very thin, cut with 
wheel and fry in hot lard a light brown. 

S. A. PUGH. 

LOVE ENTANGLE. 

Half a pound of flour, two teaspoonfuls of white 
suear, two teaspoonfuls of thick cream, three eggs. 
Beat well together, roll as thin as a wafer. Cut with 
a pastry wheel, tangle and frv in deep fat. 

E. R. MINER. 

VANITIES. 

Beat well three eggs and add one tablespoonful 
each of sugar and cold water and a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of salt stir in flour to make a rather stifif 
dough, knead well and divide into four or five por- 



Cakes. _ 139 

tions. Take one of these and roll very thin, the thin- 
ner the dough the nicer the vanities. Do not mind if 
it sticks to the board, keep on rolling, as thin as paper, 
then tear (not cut) off pieces no larger than half a 
hands size, the more irregular in shaoe the prettier 
they will look when done ; drop into a kettle of smok- 
ing hot lard and fry a delicate brown, turning once ; 
take out and sift powdered sugar over them. 

MRS. F. S. READER. 



140 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



Cakes, 141 



142 Presbvterian Cook Book. 



Coo^inff, 

Even with a cook book such as the Presbyterian Cook Book affords 
you, and careful attention to all details of preparation, there's danger 
of disappointment in many dishes from a poor flavor, an herb lacking, 
savor, or a spice deficient in strength. 
In Flavoring Extracts : 

Snfflish Currj/ iPowder, 
Jferbs and Spices, 

We'll not disappoint you. 

w/K jC, Schweppef 



OFFICE SUPPLIES AND 
STATIONERS' SUNDRIES 



KENAH BROS. 

BOOKSELLERS, 
STATIONERS 

AND 

JOB PRINTERS, 

WALL PAPER, 906 THIRD Avenue, 

WINDOW SHADES. NEW BRIGHTON. 

FIRST CLASS GOODS. FIRST CLASS GOODS. 

Blount's Grocery. 

Athena Wafers, Ralston Cocoa, 

Nabisco Wafers, ' Jordan Shelled Almonds, 

California Olive Oil, Stuffed Olives, 

Baldwin's Fancy Flour, Burnett Vanilla, 

Pin Money Pickles, Sweet Cecilia Peas. 



Our aim is t\\e best we can buy. 



Long Distance 'Phone, 80-3. 
1 121 THIRD AVENUE, NEW BRIGHTON, PA. 



ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS. 

" The most coldest thai e'ber turned up. " 

— Sha.kespea.re. 

ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of cream, four cups of sugar, four 
eeecs beaten separately, two tablespoonful^ of flour. 
Mix flour with a little of the cream and put it in half 
of the cream and cook. Take off the stove and add 
sugar and rest of cream and let cool. Put in the eggs 
just before freezing and flavor. If you don't use fruit 
in it, put only two and one-half cups of sugar. 

LUTU NANNAH. 

ICE CREAM. 

One pint milk heated boiling hot, with two ta- 
blespoonfuls cornstarch and one cup sugar stirred 
in. Boil up once, add one tablespoonful vanilla, then 
add cream enough to make two or three quarts, as 
needed. MRS. ERNEST MAYER. 

ICE CREAM. 

Beat one cup sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful 
flour, light, and add slowly one pint of crearn. Scald 
and add one tablespoonful gelatine. Strain and add 
one quart of cream and flavorin"^ and freeze. 

CHARLOTTA W. SEIPLE. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Grate one pineapple and mix with one quart of 
milk, one-half pint sugar. Add the juice of one lemon 
and the beaten whites of two eggrs. Freeze. 

MRS. W. C. McKINNEY. 



144 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

MAPLE PARFAIT. 

Four eggs, one pint cream, one cup maple syrup. 
Beat the yolks of eggs and stir in the syrup. Let 
come to boil, being careful not to burn. Beat whites, 
whip cream stiff. Mix all and freeze like ice cream. 
CHARLOTTA W. SEIPLE. 



APRICOT ICE. 

One quart apricots, nut through a colander, one- 
fourth box gelatine one pint of water, one pint sugar, 
Freeze till thick as custard then add one pint whip- 
ped cream. MRS. E. P. TOWNSEND. 



ORANGE ICE. 

Make a syrup of three pints of water and four cups 
of sugar. Boil and strain. When cold add the juice 
of eight oranges and two lemons and freeze. 

MRS. MYLER. 



MINT SHERBET. 

(To be eaten with roast lamb) : One quart water, 
one-half pound sugar, two lemons- lo good-sized 
stalks of mint. Boil water and sugar five minutes. 
Remove leaves of mint, wash and dry, chop fine- then 
pound to a pulp and add gradually to hot syruD. Add 
the lemon juice and let stand until cool. Strain and 
freeze. This amount fills eight sherbet glasses. 

AMELIA TOWNSEND WILDE. 



ORANGE SHERBET. 

One quart water, one pint sugar, six oranges, 
grated rind of one lemon. Boil water and sugar to- 
gether and add fruit and white of one egg, well 
beaten. AMELIA TOWNSEND WILDE. 



Ice Creams and Sherbets. 145 



RED RASPBERRY MOUSSE. 

Crush one box of raspberries and sprinkle with 
one cup of sugar, let stand an hour, then put through 
a cheese cloth. Soak one tablespoonful of gelatine in 
two tablespoonfuls cold water, then dissolve in one- 
fourth cup hot water and strain into raspberry juice. 
Whip one quart of cream and drain very carefully. 
When the raspberry mixture begins to thicken, fold 
the whip from the cream verv gently into it. Turn 
mixture into a mold, pack in ice and salt and let 
stand four hours. Other berries can be used the same 
way, also mellow peaches. 

MRS. W. C. McKINNEY. 

ANGEL PARFAIT. 

Put half a cup of sugar and a half cup of water 
over the fire to boil. Stir until the sugar is dissolved- 
then let it cook without stirring, until a little dropped 
into cold water will form a ball when rolled between 
the fingers. Whip the whites of three eggs till foamy, 
but not stif?; then pour the syrup in a fine stream 
over them, beating all the time. Beat until cold, fla- 
vor with a tatlespoonful of vanilla. Have ready a 
pint of thick cream beaten to a stiff froth, and fold the 
meringue into the cream. Turn the mixture into a 
mold and pack in ice and salt, set aside for four hours. 
MRS. W. C. McKINNEY. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

One quart and one-half pint of cream, six eggs, 
ten ounces sugar, one small vanilla bean, or one ta- 
blespoonful of pure extract. Make a custard with 
one pint of the cream and the eergs and sugar. When 
it is cold add the remainder of the cream and freeze. 
Turn slowly and evenly and when stiff pack down and 
set away for at least two hours. It ought to be very 
smooth and good. 

MRS. A. A. KENNEDY. 



146 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



LEMON SHERBET. 

Four large juicy lemons, one pound and six ounces 
sugar, one quart water, boil the sugar and water five 
minutes. When cold add the lemon juice and strain 
through a cloth. Freeze and when frozen add a mer- 
ingue, made with white of one egs; and one table- 
spoonful of pulverized sugar beaten until stiff. Stir 
.well and set away for at least two hours, well packed. 

MRS. A. A. KENNEDY. 

MAPLE WALNUTS. 

Beat the white of one eeg to a stiff froth, stir in 
enough powdered sugar to make it like hard frost- 
ing, dip the walnut meats in a syrup made by boiling 
for two or three minutes, two tablespoonfuls of maple 
sugar in one of water ; or in this proportion. Press 
some of the hard frosting between the two halves of 
the walnut, -and let it harden. Dates, green grapes 
and almonds, may be used in the same way. The 
paste may be made stiffer, flavored and colored and 
used as any other fondant. 

MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Take one-third of the ball of fondant, add a quar- 
ter teaspoonful of flavor to it and blend them thor- 
oughly together, then form the mixture into balls, lay 
them on oiled paper and let them stand for two or 
three hours in a cool place, put the rest of the fon- 
dant into a double boiler, add two tablespoonfuls of 
cocoa and stir the mixture constantly until it is 
melted, take it from the fire and put the balls in one at 
a time and drop them on oiled paper. 

ESTELLA HOLLAND. 

FONDANT CANDY. 

Put two cupfuls of granulated sugar in a sauce 
pan with one cupful of water, stir it just enough to 
prevent the sugar from cakine in the bottom of the 



Ice Creams mid Sherbets. 147 



pan. Bring it quickly to boiling point, let it boil rap- 
idly until it will form a. soft ball between vour fingers, 
turn it out on a marble slab and stir constantly until 
it becomes white and loses its stickiness, scrape it free 
from the marble and mold it on your hands until it is 
free from lumps. It should be about the consistency 
of putty, not stickv, but forming readily into shapes. 

ESTELLA HOLLAND. 

HOT CHOCOLATE. 

!Melt together three small squares of Baker's 
chocolate, two tablespoonfuls of hot water, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Then add to this one pint 
of hot water, then one quart of boiled milk. Serve 
vith whipped cream. 

MRS. S. E. CRITCHLOW. 

NECTAR. 

Three quarts of tea (Oolong), one pint of Apolli- 
naris water, juice of three oranges, juice of three lemons, 
one-half can of shredded pineapple. Sweeten to taste. 



148 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



Ice Creams and Sherbets. 149 



ISO Presbyterian Cook Book. 



PICKLES, JELLIES, ETC. 

" Don't hit thai ja.r of cucumbers 

Standing on the broad stair. 
They ha'be not Ivaked from their slumbers. 

Since they stood there." 

—J. G. Holland. 



SMALL CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Two hundred small cucumber pickles, one small 
gallon good cider vinegar, one-half ounce of cloves 
(whole), two ounces of allspice (whole), two ounces of 
mustard seed (whole), three-quarters of an ounce of alum, 
one small teacup of salt, one teacup of sugar. Boil all to- 
gether and turn over the pickles. Before pickling 
pour boiling hot water over them and allow them to 
stand twenty-four hours. Then wipe them dry and 
pack into your jars with a few small pieces of horse- 
radish on the top to keep them from molding. If 
pickles are very small I find this quantity will cover 
300. MRS. FRED. S. MERRICK. 



PICCALILLI. 

To one peck of green tomatoes take one-half 
dozen onions, one cup brown sugar, two ounces yel- 
low mustard seed, and two tablespoonfuls salt and a 
green pepper or two, if you wish it hot. Cut the mid- 
dle slices out of the tomatoes, rejecting the seeds, 
and lay the sliced onions and peppers in layers. 
Sprinkle the salt through as you proceed and then let 



152 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

the whole stand all night to drain through a colander. 
Then add enough cider vinegar to cover pickle, add 
cinnamon bark and whole cloves. Place the preserv- 
ing kettle on the back of the stove to simmer very 
slowly for several hours, until the tomatoes are as 
soft as you like. MRS. S. E. CRITCHLOW. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Select six large green peppers, cut off stem end 
and take out the seeds. Soak in salt water over night. 
Mix together one cup cooked chicken or veal chopped 
fine, one large tomato peeled and chopped fine ; one- 
half of a small onion, chopped fine, one teaspoonful 
salt, one tablespoonful butter and one raw egg. Fill 
peppers, put in baking dish, pour over and around 
them a little stock. Bake twentv-five minutes. 

EMMA C. WINANS. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Three large heads- cabbage, six stalks celery, three 
pints green tomatoes, one pint onions, one-half pint 
horseradish, two green peppers, two red peppers. 
Chop all together, stir in two heaping tablespoonfuls 
salt and let stand one hour, then press out the water 
and mix with the following spices : Two tablespoon- 
fuis each celery seed and mustard seed, one table- 
spoonful each of cloves and allspice, one teaspoonful 
mace, and one-half teaspoonful pepper. Put on the 
stove with two quarts vinegar and seven pints brown 
sugar, let simmer one hour and seal in glass jars. 

JEAN McHATTIE. 

PEPPER SAUCE, NICE WITH FRIED OYSTERS. 

Chop a medium-sized head of cabbage, about six 
green peppers, and a couple of onions, if liked. Salt 
with a couple of tablespoonfuls of salt, let stand two 
hours and drain, then add a teaspoonful of celery 
seed, two tablespoonfuls of mustard seed, and cover 
with cold vinegar, ready for use in a few hours. 

MRS. E. C. KENNEDY. 



Pickles, Jellies, Etc. 153 



PICKLE CABBAGE. 

One gallon finely cut cabbaee, one pound sugar, 
two green peppers cut fine, one-half cup mustard seed, 
two tablespoonfuls celer->' seed, one and one-half ta- 
blespoonfuls of salt, one cup grated horseradish, small 
piece of alum. Pack in a crock, cover over with 
heavv muslin, then cover with cider vinesjar. 

S. M. hI'XTER. 

COLD TOMATO CATSUP. 

One peck tomatoes, three green peppers, one red 
pepper, one-half cup salt, one teacup black mustard 
seed, one cup white mustard seed, one tablespoonful 
black pepper, cloves and celery seed to taste, three 
pints of vinegar. Pare and chop tomatoes, drain over 
night, then add the other insrredients and bottle for 
use. MRS. STUCHFIELD. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

To one peck of green tomatoes, add four small 
heads of cabbage, one dozen onions, one dozen cu- 
cumbers and one-half dozen green peppers. Chop 
all fine and salt well, let the mixture stand over night, 
then drain ofif the water and season with four ounces 
of yellow mustard, one ounce of turmeric powder, one 
ounce of celery seed, two and one-half pounds brown 
sugar, one gallon vinegar. Boil all together for 30 
minutes, when it is ready to bottle. 

MRS. CLARENCE HALL CORBUS. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Boil, one peck of tomatoes one hour, one cup of 
salt, one quart of vinecrar, one ounce of cloves, one 
ounce of allspice, one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce 
white mustard seed, one cup horseradish, one quart 
of onion cut fine, one tablespoonful of celery seed, 
one-half pound of brown sugar, six red peppers cut 
fine. Stir all in together on the stove after the to- 
matoes have boiled one hour. MRS. FISHER. 



154 Prcsbvtcriau Cook Bdok. 



MIXED PICKLES. 

One quart green tomatoes, chopped, one quart 
green beans and cabbage chopped, one pint of very 
small onions, one hundred small cucumber pickles, 
two heads cauliflower, pulled to pieces, six large pep- 
pers chopped, three bunches celerA- chopped, three 
quarts cider vinegar, one cup sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of salt. INIi.x with water, one cup flour, six table- 
spoonfuls of mustard, two tablespoonfuls of turmeric 
and stir into the whole after it has been put into a 
vessel to cook. Boil 30 minutes. 

MRS. IMARY TEA. 



CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Pick cranberries over carefully (do not use any 
soft ones), put them in a preservinsr kettle, sprinkle a 
little soda over them and cover them with cold wa- 
ter. Cook until berries begin to pop, then drain 
this water off and cover with hot water so they will 
swim. Cook until soft, press through a sieve. For 
each pint of marmalade add one cup of sugar. Cook 
until it jellies. Takes but a few moments. Pour into 
wet mould. 

MRS. JOHN READ MINER. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

One quart berries, one small pint of water, stew 
quickly until soft, stirring often, strain them, add one 
and one-half cups sugar and cook until they begin 
to thicken. Pour in mold. It takes usually about 
twenty minutes cooking to thicken them. 

MRS. E. P. TOWNSEND. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Use three or four lemons to each dozen oranges. 
Weigh the fruit and allow three-fourths of a pound 
of sugar to each pound of fruit. Pare ofif the yellow 
rind and boil untir tender, chano-ing the water once. 



Pickles, Jellies, Etc. 155 

Throw away the white rind, cut the fruit in small 
pieces, add ttie yellow rind and boil until it is clear 
and thick, using more or less water according to the 
juiciness of the fruit. When thoroughly cooked, 
which will take about two hours, add sugar and boil 
imtil it will jelly slightly. MRS. STANTON. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Twenty large oranares, three lemons. Pare the 
oranges, but not the lemons. Slice them, put four 
quarts water on them and let them stand over night. 
In the morning boil them one and a half hours, then 
add ten pounds of granulated sugar, and boil one hour 
longer. MRS. H. T. BARKER. 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Three quinces, three pints sugar, one pint water. 
Cook twenty minutes. Grate the fruit. 

MRS. R. S. EBERHART. 

QUINCE H6NEY. 

Two small or one large quince, three pounds of 
sugar, one pint of water. Put sugar and water on the 
stove, and when dissolved, add the fruit grated. Boil 
fifteen minutes. MRS. T. S. WHITE. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Two quarts of blackberry juice, one-half ounce of 
powdered nutmeg, one-half ounce of powdered cin- 
namon, one-half ounce of allspice, one-half ounce of 
cloves. Boil them together, and while hot add one 
quart of four degree proof brandy and one pound of 
loaf sugar. Dose, from two to five teaspoonfuls. 

MRS. H. T. BARKER. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Seven pounds peaches, three pounds sugar 
(brown), two-thirds of a quart vinegar, one ounce 
cinnamon (stick), one-half ounce cloves (whole). Boil 



156 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

the vinegar, sugar and spice together (the spice 
should be tied up in a thin mushn bag), drop the 
peaches into the syrup, and when cooked sufhcientlv 
seal up in glass jars. H. M. READ. 

AUNT FANNIE MERRICK'S SPICED PLUMS. 

Three quarts plums, one cantaloup (not very ripe), 
one pint vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful cloves, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon. Make 
the syrup and cook the plums and cantaloup (which 
you have previously cut in thin slices). Pour into a 
jar and in a few days pour off the syrup, let it come 
to a boil, and pour over them again. 

H. M. READ. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Ten quarts of ripe grapes, measured after picking 
from the stems. Cook in two quarts of water till soft. 
Strain first through a colander, and then a thin jelly 
bag. Add two pounds of granulated sugar, bring to 
the boil, skim and bottle. Makes about eight quarts 
of juice, and very nice with cake while chatting with 
a friend. MRS. E. C. KENNEDY. 



Pickles, Jellies, Etc. 157 



158 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



INVALID'S DISHES. 

They [ive upo' spoon-meat mostly. 



-George Eliot. 



BEEF TEA. 



Into a quart jar put one pint of cold water and 
one pound of lean beef chopped fine. After standing 
for one hour, cover and put it on the fire and bring to 
the boiling point and cook so for two hours without 
boiling. Then strain and season. 

MRS. E. L. DAWES. 

ARROWROOT GRUEL. 

Mix one teaspoonful of arrowroot with two ta- 
blespoonfuls of milk. Then stir this into one-half 
pint of boiling milk ; cook for ten minutes. Season 
with a little salt. MRS. E. L. DAWES. 

OYSTERS FOR THE SICK. 

Bring one-half pint of oysters to the boiling point, 
in their own liquor. Skim and season with butter, 
salt and pepper. Serve on toast. 

MRS. E. L. DAWES. 

EGG NOGG. 

Beat one egg very light, add two tablespoonfuls 
granulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls of wine, a little 
nutmeg, add gradually one cup boiling water, beat all 
together. HENRIETTA M. READ. 

PANADA. 

One slice of bread cut thin toasted very brown, 
break into a bowl, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
two of wine, some nutmeg, add about a pint of boiling 
water. A few raisins may be added if desired. 

HENRIETTA M. READ. 



160 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

CORNMEAL GRUEL. 

Into one quart of boiling water put two table- 
spoonfuls of yellow cornmeal, previously mixed with 
a little cold water. Boil slowly one hour, stirring oc- 
casionally. Then salt to taste and add one-half pint 
each of milk and cream. Stir until it boils again. 
Then set into cold water bath and stir until cool 
enough to drink. M. READ. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Wash one ounce of barley in two waters, then put 
into one quart of cold water and cook slowly until re- 
duced one-half. Strain. M. READ. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

One and one-half pints of boiling water, salt to 
taste. To this add three tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, 
boil hard for a few minutes, stir constantly, then pour 
into a double boiler and let cook slowly for two hours. 
To a half cup of this add half a cup of cream and take 
when desired. M. READ. 

EGG NOGG. 

Put the yolk of one ^%% in a tumbler, and the 
white on a plate, beat the white until stifif, then beat 
the yolk until light, add two teaspoonfuls (or less) of 
sugar, mix well, then add milk, leaving room to mix 
in the white. Flavor with nutmeg or one or two tea- 
spoonfuls of wine or brandy as needed. 

M. D. READER. 



Invalid'' s Dishes. 161 



162 



Preshvfcn'aii Cook Book. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

" A snapper up of unconsidered trifles." 

— Shakespeare. 

TO KEEP EGGS IN LIME WATER. 

Pour two gallons of hot water on a pint of lime 
and half pint salt, put perfectly fresh eggs in a stone 
jar and when cold pour the lime and salt water over 
them, and put in cellar to keep, be sure there are no 
cracked ones. I have kept them a year and they 
would beat up perfectly fresh. 

S. M. CLARKE. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS. * 

Take one scant pint of unslacked lime, one pint of 
salt, add three gallons of water, let stand over night 
covered. Pack the eggs in earthen crocks and pour 
the solution over them, stirring as you pour. Are as 
good as fresh ones for cookin^^ but on account of 
thinness of shell will not boil for table use. 

MRS. T. SIDNEY WHITE. 

CORROSIVE SUBLIMATE (FOR MOTHS). 

In a wide mouthed earthen jar dissolve one ta- 
blespoonful powdered corrosive sublimate in two 
quarts boiling water, cover and let stand over night. 
Wear gloves when using, as it is a deadly poison. 
.After brushing clothes, brush lightly with a whist dip- 
ped in the solution, dry thoroughlv before packing 
away. Brush closets and packing: boxes freely, es- 
pecially in the crevices. 

MRS. T. S. WHITE. 



164 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

SURE CURE FOR EARACHE. 

Roast an onion in its skin in the blaze of the fire. 
Take out the center, squeeze a httle and put into the 
ear, using the rest of the hot onion as a poultice 
bound around the ear. Relief is very speedy. 

A. C. KENNEDY. 

WHOOPING COUGH. 

Excellent for whooping cough and the cough 
which sometimes follow it. One lemon sliced, half a 
pint of flaxseed, two ounces honey or rock candy and 
one quart of water. Simmer, not boil, for four hours. 
Strain, g.nd if there is less than a pint add more wa- 
ter. Dose, one tablespoonful four times a day and 
after each fit of severe coughinfr. A. C. K. 

MOTHER'S SALVE. 

One ounce lard, one ounce rosin, one ounce bees- 
wax. Melt together over the fire, remove, and when 
almost cold stir in one ounce of oil of spiknard. This 
is excellent for cuts, burns, bruises, boils and chil- 
blains. A. C. K. 

SACHET POWDER. 

Florentine orris root four ounces, violet sachel 
two ounces, musk one-fourth ounce. 

MRS. L. S. OLIVER. 

Camphor is a good all-round agent for restoring 
varnish, and when rubbed over blistered or whitened 
spots will bring back much of the original lustre. 
Stained brass may be cleaned with whiting and am- 
monia. M. D. R. 



Miscellaneous. 165 



166 Presbyterian Cook book. 



Advertisements. 167 



Strangers marvel at there being two such large stores 
in Beaver County. Success and growth so far overshadow- 
ing any other stores is naturally surprising. 

This question of progress is not hard to solve. We 
have gained the supremacy not only because we have the 
price, but because we have the assortments and the styles 
the people want. 

We would like, if it were possible, to extend a 
personal invitation to every one within a radius of fifteen 
miles, to come and see our pleasing assortment of 

./'urniture. Carpets, Stoves, VJishes 
and everi/thtnff for the home. 

The most distant visitors will be well repaid. 



9?^c 



Wfartsolfi^ui^Hure Co. 
*eaver J'alls ./'umi'ture Co. 



An Acre of Goods. Every piece a bargain. 

JNO, A, RENSHAW & CO, 

LIBERTY AND NINTH STREETTS, 
PITTSBURGH. 



RENSHAW, CARSON & CO, 

415 FEDERAL STREET, 
ALLEGHENY. 



Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 



Fine Family Groceries 
and Pure Food Products* 



168 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

jffiffh Srade Soods 

at Cheap (Prices, 

We give Trading Stamps . G WlTl^^ , t/jrOSt 

^^ochesier and Cloihierj, Jfatiers 

9^eiu i^rtffhton, SPa. and furnishers. 

Geo. W. Martsolf, 

dealer in 

Hardware 
and Builders' Supplies, 

829 Third Avenue, New Brighton, Pa. 

*'Don't ask for your size^ 

Ask to be fitted.** 



Soros is. 

The perfected American shoe. 

75 styles, every material for 
every occasion. 



$3.5 

always. 



FIFTH AND PENN, PITTSBURGH, PA. 



Advertisements. 169 



WM. H, BENSON, 

Dry Goods, Cloaks, Suits 
and Millinery, 

1 104 and 1 106 Seventh Avenue, Beaver Falls, Pa. 



In buying goods you'll find that 
very cheap and very good don't 
really often go together in spite 
of advertising. This store's rep- 
utation rests on something more 
than cheapness. 



WE SELL AT LOW PRICES, 
but we know the quality of our goods is above criticism. 

A RECEIPT FOR KEEPING 

YOUR FEET COMFORTABLE. 



Wear 

Our Shoes. 

Let Us Fit You. 



W. B. LOVELESS CO. 

SIXTH STREET AND PENN AVENUE, PITTSBURQ. 



170 Presbyterian Cook Book. 

'Phone 132-2. Open Day and Night. 

Baltimore Oysters, Wholesale and Retail. 

Lodging, 25 cents. 

B. G. LINDSAY, 

RESTAURANT AND LUNCH ROOM, 

1117 THIRD AVENUE, HEW BRIGHTON, PA. 

Knowing how essential it is to have a range which 
bakes perfectly, I have secured the agency for the Dockash — 
ventilated oven — coal range and the Reliable gas ranges. 

Both are sold on their merits and are guaranteed to 
please. Yours very truly, 

FRANK R, BRIERLY, 

52^ AND 525 SEVENTH AVENUE, 

BEAVER FALLS, PA. 

PURE MILK AND CREAM 

AT 

J.W.Holland's, 

CORNER OF NINTH AVENUE AND NINTH STREET. 

TELEPHONE J 29-4. 

If we please you, tell others ; 
If we don' t, tell us. 

We give Green Trading Stamps. 



Ewing Bros. 



Beaver Falls' Leading Grocers, 

Telephone 256. 1212 Seventh Avenue. 



Adverttsetnents. 171 



FUNKHOUSER BROS. '^--^'■'■ 

TIN AND SLATE ROOFERS. 
FURNACES. 



Sixth Avenue, 
Near Eighth Street, NEW BRIGHTON, PA. 

Geo. W. Martsolf, 

dealer in ... . 

Hardware 
and Builders' Supplies, 

829 Third Avenue, New Brighton, Pa. 

A call from the ladies of the Valley to view our fine 
imported and domestic Hats and Bonnets, t/ie latest — as 
ihetf come out — will be appreciated; also the latest in art 
material. 

^o trouble to shoiv yoods or yive suffffesti'ons 6j/ 
/3/5 Seventh jivenuej leaver ^alls. 



172 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



A RECIPE 

for 

Tired, Aching Feet. 

Sorosis. 

The best shoes for women. 

75 styles, d» -j 5; rv 

Sizes and Widths %PO»Ov/ 

not found elsewhere. ALWAYS. 



WM. J. SLOAN, 

PENN AND FIFTH, PITTSBURG, PA. 

Ladies Hair Dressing Parlors 

* . . and Fancy Work, 

Exchange all kind of fancy 'work. 
Supplies ivill be kept in stock at 
most reasonable prices. 

„„„ „ ^^^^^^^„ 808 Seventh Avenue, 

MRS. E. GIBBONS, Beaver Falls. 



Advertisements. 173 



J. L. MIKSCH, 

DEALER IN 

Fresh and Salt Meats, Poultry, Etc. 

TELEPHONE 175-1. 

814 SEVENTH AVE., BEAVER FALLS, PA. 



Mtytr Jonasson <2 Co. 



H0RNE=5TEWART CO. 

Nos. 233-235 FIFTH AVENUE, 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 



Dry Goods, Women's and Children's Cloaks and Suits, 

Millinery, Hosiery, Gloves, 

Trimmings, Laces, Embroideries, 

Men's and Boys' Clothing and Furnishings. 



YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED. 



17'74 Presbyterian Cook Book. 



Long Distance 'Phone J 32. BEAVER FALLS, PA. 

SPECIALTIES : 

Mt. Air Elgin Creamery Butter, 

Alum Rock Elgin Creamery Butter, 

Alum Rock Goshen Cheese. 

WE USE MEMBERS OF 

ECONOMY AND REVISED NATIONAL APPLE SHIPPERS' 
CITRUS CODES. ASSOCIATION. 

McHATTIE BROS. 

Wholesale Fruits 
and Produce* 

Long Experienced Handlers of 
Oranges, Apples, Potatoes, 

Lemons, Cranberries, Sw^eet Potatoes, 

Pineapples, Grapes, Cabbage. 

BUTTER, EGGS AND CHEESE. 

New York State Navy Beans, 
California Lima Beans, 
California Dried Fruits. 

DIRECT RECEIVERS OF SOUTHERN FRUITS 
AND VEGETABLES. 

Colorado Honey, Wisconsin Swiss Cheese, 

Malaga Grapes, Wisconsin Limberger Cheese, 

Smyrna Figs, French Brick Cheese. 

RECEIVERS AND SHIPPERS OF CAR LOTS. 



Advertisements. 175 

3. &B. 



this is a dry goods store 
with a purpose 

— one that aims to be, and is to many, not merely a Dry 
Goods store — but the one and o/z/v store when you've any 
Dry Goods to buy — and to be that by being the store where 
you can buy best. 

You'll always find us ready with choice-goods-and- 
lower-price, proof that this purpose is lived up to in superior 
manner — Silks, Dress Goods, Ready-to-wear styles. 
Oriental Rugs — all of the store's 64 different departments. 



BOGGS & BVHL, ALLEGHENY, PA. 



