WHAT'S WHAT 

AT HOME ® ABROAD 




Class _TXLi53 
Book. 



'A T" ^ 



COPVRIGHT DEPOSrr. 



WHAT'S WHAT? 

AT HOME A:SD ABEOAD 



BT / 

y 

F. STURGES ALLEN 






c 



^7 



)JJ9 >j- JJ jj- }J 

J> ^ t i J J > >> J 



3)5 
> ) ) 3 



THE BRADLEY-WHITE CO. 

NEW YORK CITY 

1902 



THE L)B:>ARY of 
CONGRESS, 

"^■"o Copies Received 

iV^AY. 25^ 1902 

OOPVRIOHT ENTRY 

Ci-ASS CC' XXc. No. 
COPY B. 



> > 



A 



•v; 



^i»^ 



K 



COPTRIGHT, 1903 
BY 

Annie W. Allen 




PREFATORY NOTE 

The vocabulary of bill-of-fare terms and names of 
dishes includes those most used in the better class of 
restaurants and hotels in America, Most of them are 
in use in England, also, and many of them in France, and 
elsewhere on the Continent. I have been assisted both 
in choice of terms and definitions, by various chefs of 
New York City, and especially by Mr, Augustus Wagner, 
The definitions are not intended to be full, but to give 
such information as will enable a person to know what 
kind of a dish is meant by the term. Each particular 
chef has names of his own for dishes that he has in- 
vented, but unless these have become extended in their 
use beyond one restaurant, they are not included. It is 
remarkable how widespread many terms are that at 
first seemed unusual, and how the dishes, if at all com- 
plex, vary in their details and yet retain their general 
make-up and identity. 

The information given on gems, plants, etc., I have 
gathered together from various sources, assisted by ex- 
perts, F. S, A. 

May, 1902. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Bill of Fare Vocabulary 11 

Poisonous Plants and Remedies 63 

What to do in Case of Accidents 87 

Precious and Other Stones Used in Jewelry . 109 



KEY TO PRONUNCIATION. 

The special symbols used in respelling words for pro- 
nunciation are as given in key- words below. These 
symbols are essentially the same as those given in Web- 
ster's International Dictionary: 

ale; senate; care; am; arm; final; aw(l)=a in all. 
eve; event; end; her (see urn); recent, 
ice; idea; ill. 

old; obey; 6rb; odd; (f)oo(d); ou(t); oi(l). 
use; unite; fiill, and=oo in foot; up; Urn, and=e in 
her, fern, etc. 

N = n in French bon; zh = z in azure. 

It must be borne in mind that the vowels in French 
are spoken quickly, so that they do not have the glide 
(or vanishing sound) at the end that is given to accented 
vowels in English. 

French eu, and oeu are much like e in the English word 
"her"; French u is much like u in the English word 
"pull." The French nasal n (indicated in this book by 
n) can easily be pronounced by trying to pronounce 
" onion," without touching the tongue to the roof of the 
mouth; that is, leaving the mouth passage continuously 
open while pronouncing it. 



WHAT'S WHAT 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 



abaisse (a-bas'). Thin undercrust of pastry. 

agneau (a-nyo'). Lamb. 

aillolis (a-yo-le'). A Provengale sauce of olive oil 
with garlic pounded in it. 

a la (a la), au (o), aux (o). With; according to; after 
the manner of; as, huitres aux champignons, oysters with 
mushrooms. 

If a dish is cooked, or served, or made, with anything 
as an ingredient or garnish, the dish may be said to be 
" d la " that substance. So it may be possible to ascer- 
tain the meaning of phrases not given below by look- 
ing elsewhere in the vocabulary under the word used 
with the words '" a la." 

a la bearnaise (a la ba-ar-naz'). With a sauce of tar- 
ragon vinegar in which shallots have been boiled till it 
is reduced, then combined with egg yolks and butter, and 
beaten in a bain marie, then seasoned with red pepper 
and lemon Juice. 

a la bechamel (a la ba-sha-mel'). After the fashion of 
Bechamel (a French gastronomer); said of a sauce (see 
Bechamel) ; also prepared or served with this sauce. 

a la Bercy (a la bar-se'). Served with bearnaise 
sauce, "stuffed green pepper and stuffed tomato. 

a la bigarade (a la be-ga-rad'). Flavored with 
(Seville) orange juice or peel. 

a la bonne femme (a la bun fem). Of, or in the style 
of, the housewife; specifically said of a kind of maigre 
soup made \Wth fish, bouillon, legumes, and an assort- 
ment of vegetables. 

a la bordelaise (a la bor-de-laz'). With Bordeaux 
wine; said of various preparations containing it; as of 
a sauce, with garlic, shallots, or onions, chopped mush- 



13 BILL OF FAIR VOCABULARY 

rooms, and a piece of marrow; also with sauce k la 
bordelaise. 

a la bourguignotte (a la boor-ge-nyot). Generally, 
prepared with the addition of red wine of Burgundy, 
or of Bordeaux, or of the Midi (i.e. meridional provinces 
of France). At Bordeaux, or when made elsewhere with 
Gironde wine, the dish would be d la bordelaise. 

a la caledo'nian (a la). Boiled slowly in plain water 
and then baked with dressing of butter, chopped 
parsley, and a little lemon juice; said of finnan haddie 
when so cooked. 

a la Camerani (a la ka-ma-ra'ne). After the fashion 
of Camerani; said of a kind of rich chicken-liver soup. 

a la Chateaubriand (a la sha-to-bre-aN'). With maitre 
d'hotel butter. See Maitee d'hotel buttek. 

a la chevreuil (a la she-vrti'y'). Served with a savory 
sauce; said of fillets of beef. 

a la chipolata (a la che-po-lii'ta). Containing an addi- 
tion of the strongly flavored Italian sausages, or the 
mince with which they are filled. 

a la chiffonade (a la she-fo-nad'). See Chiffonade. 

a la cocotte (a IS, ko-kot'). Baked (as eggs) in a 
cocotte, with butter and cream, or with cheese, or the 
like, and served in the cocotte. 

a la crapaudine (a la krii-po-den'). Like a crapaudine 
(the flat piece of iron on which a grate pivot rests) ; said 
of grilled chicken, pigeon, etc., when prepared by bon- 
ing, removing the legs and wings, and pressing flat. 

a la Crecy (a la kra-se'). Same as A la Cboissy. 

a la Creole (a la kra-ol'). With tomatoes. 

a la Croissy (a la krwa-se')- Containing carrots in 
quantity, or at least strongly flavored with them; said 
specifically of a purge of onions, carrots, turnips, and 
parsnips stewed in coulis. According to others, contain- 
ing turnips in quantity, or strongly flavored with them. 

a la daube (a la dob). Stewed in daube; said specific- 
ally of dishes cooked with small square pieces of salt 
pork, the round slices of carrots, glaced onions, and 
turnips. See Daube. 

a la Dauphine (a la do-fen'). With atelets sauce. 

a la Dauphine (a la do-fe-na'). With various vege- 
tables, spinach, lettuce, leek, onions, sorrel, beets etc.; 
said of a kind of soup. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 13 

a la Dauphinoise (a la do-fe-nwaz'). Generally, sauced 
over with a thick sauce (or with egg yolk), bread- 
crumbed, and then fried. 

a la diable (a la de-a'bl'). Devilled. 

a la Duchatelet (a la du-sha-tla'). See Blond de 

VEAU. 

a la financiere (a IS. fe-naN-syar'). With extract of 
truffles (lit. after the style of a financier); said of a 
variety of espagnole sauce, and of dishes served with 
it; also served with truffles, mushrooms, bits of sweet- 
bread, and, often, also sliced olives and chicken livers. 

a la Flamande (a la fla-maNd'). Containing cabbage, 
but more particularly Brussels sprouts, and, usually, 
turnips and carrots cut in big slices. ^ 

a la Florentine (a la flo-raN-ten'). See A l'Ital- 

lENNE. 

a la Frangaise (a la fraN-saz'). After the French 
style; a term applied to various preparations, none of 
which are really typical, and some of which are merely 
fanciful dishes. 

a la Genevoise (a la zha-ne-vwaz'). Cooked with 
champagne; said of certain dishes of fish. 

a la Gerard (a la zha-rUr'). Muddled, or miscarried, 
or hit upon by chance; sarcastically so termed, as a dish 
not turning out as intended. See Manchons de veau 
A LA. Gerard. 

a la godiveau (a la go-de-vo'). With balls made of 
mincemeat, usually of veal. 

a la Holstein (a la hol'stin). Fried, and served with a 
fried egg, sardelles, capers, pickled beets, and pickles, 
and sometimes scraped horseradish. 

a la jardiniere (a la zhiir-de-nyar'). Made with a 
typical collection of cooked vegetables, as soups, ragoQts, 
and removes. See Jardinere. 

a la julienne (a la zhii-lyen'). With various vege- 
tables sliced in strips, as carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, 
celery, lettuce, tarragon, sorrel; said especially of a kind 
of rich stock soup. Also: Said of potatoes cut in very 
slender strips and fried crisp floating in hot fat. 

a I'Algerienne (a lill zha-re-en'). Cobked with slices 
of ra\v ham; said of a preparation of fow^l. 

a la Languedoc (a la laNg-dok'). Cooked with or in 
olive oil; with olive oil. 



14 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

a I'Allemande (a lal-maNd'). Having a German pro- 
vincial peculiarity of preparation, as a garnish of 
sauerkraut, prunes stewed in wine, quenelles of pota- 
tatoes, etc. Specifically said of fillets of hare served 
with a sauce of tomato, poivrade, cinnamon, and cherry 
sauce. 

a la Loren'zo (a la). Made of minced crab meat, put 
on toast spread with anchovy paste, then all covered 
with parmesan cheese and bread crumbs, buttered, 
browned in the oven, and served; said of a canape of crab 
meat. 

a I'Alsacienne (a lal-sa-syen). With pork and frank- 
furters; also with onions and pork. 

a la lyonnaise (a la le-o-naz')- With flaked or sliced 
fried onions; as, potatoes a la li/onnalsc, or lyonnaise 
potatoes; sauce a la lyonnaise, or Lyons sauce, that is, 
espagnole sauce with flaked onions fried in oil. Any- 
thing cooked or served in this sauce, as ox palates, may 
be said to be a la lyonnaise. 

a la macedoine (a la ma-sa-dwan'). Made with or of 
a typical collection of green vegetables, mostly in white 
sauce; also applied to collections of ripe fruit imbedded 
in jellies, etc. A dish prepared d la macedoine may be 
called a macedoine simply. 

a la Maintenon (a la niaN-te-noN'). A term vari- 
ously used to designate a mode of cooking mutton or 
lamb chops; as, (a) wrapped in caul; (6) garnished with 
cockscombs and truffles; (c) served with a soubise; 
(d) served with financiSre sauce; (e) served with 
d'Uxelles sauce, etc. 

a la maitre d'hotel (a la ma'tr' do-tel'). Prepared by 
a substantial, but homely, modest sort of cooking. Also 
served with maitre d'hotel butter. 

a la Marengo (a la ma-ren'go). With some garlic and 
oil. 

a la Marseillaise (a la mar-se-laz'). With Marsala 
wine. 

a la Ma'ryland (a la). With a sauce of butter and 
cream, with or without wine. It is like a la Newburgh, 
but less rich. 

a la Meyerbeer (a la mi-tlr-bar'). Shirred and served 
with broiled kidney and truffle sauce; said of eggs. 

a la Milanaise (a la me-la-naz'). See A l'Italienne. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 15 

a la Napolitaine (a la na-po-le-tan'). See A l' Ital- 

lENNE. 

a la mode (a la mod). A term used to designate 
various preparations of beef in which the meat is cut 
into pieces of three or four ounces each, and slowly 
stewed, and the gravy is thickened and flavored, as with 
bay leaves and allspice. 

a la mode de Caen (a la mod de kaN). A term used 
to designate tripe prepared with vegetables, leeks, wine, 
cognac, etc. 

a la neige (a la nazh'). In some form that suggests 
snow, as Avith white-of-egg froth, or in balls of white 
boiled rice, or the like. 

a la New'burgh (a la). With a sauce made of cream, 
egg yolks, Madeira or sherry wine, and butter shaken 
in a dish over a slow fire until they thicken. Said also 
of this sauce. 

a r Anglaise {'A laN-glaz'). After the English fashion; 
generally roasted or boiled in the plainest manner, or 
prepared in a manner peculiar to the English without 
necessarily being plain; as, sauce beurre a V Anglaise, 
melted butter sauce, made by combining melted butter, 
flour, and broth or water, and flavoring with nutmeg and 
pepper. Dishes served with this sauce are said to be 
« r Anglaise, 

a la Nivernaise (a la ne-var-naz'). Containing a 
nivernaise; said of a kind of soup a la julienne. See 
Nivernaise. 

a la Normande (a lii nor-maNd'). Generally, with 
apples in the composition of the dish in some shape or 
other. To this rule the only exception is the matelote, 
which is a fish ragout of which a particular modification 
is popular in Normandy. 

a la Parisienne (a la pa-re-syen'). Applied loosely to 
dishes which are generally luxuriously prepared, and 
overladen with expensive garnishes. Specifically said; 
(a) of fillets of beef garnished with green peas and cray- 
fish tails; (6) of potatoes stewed in bouillon, esp. when 
cut into small balls. Potatoes so cut are often called 
a la Parisienne, however cooked. Compare A la Fran- 

CAISE. 

a la Perigord (a la pa-re-gor'). Flavored with, or con- 
sisting of, truffles, — alluding to the circumstance that 



16 BILL OF FARE VOCABULART 

these mushrooms grow of excellent size and quality in 
the province of Perigord. 

a la Polonaise {'& la po-lo-naz'). Having red beets or 
red cabbage, so as to have their juice, color, and taste; as 
Polish ragout, or borsh, which is the type of dishes 
a la Polonaise. Also said of; (a) A kind of puff paste 
tart with drops of jelly at the corners; (6) espagnole 
sauce with small onions, raisins, and sliced almonds 
added, and made sweet and sour with sugar and vinegar. 

a la poulette (a la poo-let'). With white velout^ 
sauce (which is especially adapted for use with fowl's 
meat). 

a la printaniere (a lapraN-ta-nyar'). Made with a 
typical collection of cooked early or spring vegetables; 
of a somewhat wider application than a la jardiniere. 

a la Provengale (a la pro-vaN-sal'). Generally, pre- 
pared with more or less of olive oil, and flavored with 
garlic; not rarely with a mixture (aillolis) of both in- 
gredients, and sometimes (as capilotade of chicken, 
fillets of beef, etc.) with onions and tomatoes added. 

a la Reine (a la ran). Of, or after the style of, the 
queen; said specifically of a kind of chicken soup (potage 
d la reine, po-tazh' a la ran) containing white meat of 
chicken pounded and rubbed to a powder. 

a la Roland (a la). Made of minced lobster meat 
in the same manner as a la Lorenzo dishes of crab meat. 
See A LA Lorenzo. 

a la Saint Cloud (a la saN kloo). With sliced truffles; 
said of a kind of veloute sauce. 

a la Saint Pardoux (a la saN piir-doo'). With morels, 
herbs, and a binding of egg yolk; said of a variety of 
white or veloute sauce. 

a la serviette (a la ser-vyet'). Served in or on a nap- 
kin, as braised truffles. 

a la Soubise (a la soo-bez'). Generally containing 
onions in quantity; or, at least, strongly garnished and 
flavored with them; esp. served with a white onion sauce 
used with lamb or mutton. 

a la tartare (a la tar-tar'). With tartare sauce, or a 
sauce of similar ingredients. Also, said of a steak 
chopped and garnished with onions, pickles, pickled beets, 
sardelles, and yolk of egg, to be eaten raw. 

a la turque (a la tiirk). Shirred and served with 



BILL OF FAKE VOCABULARY 17 

chicken livers and mushrooms; said of eggs. Also boiled 
with rice and saffron; said of chicken. 

a I'Aurore (a lo-ror'). With a pink sauce made by 
coloring veloute sauce with lobster coral or Armenian 
bole. Also, said of sliced hard-boiled eggs put in a 
dish, covered with veloute, sprinkled with grated egg 
yolk, and baked. 

a la vert pre (a la var pra). Colored green with vege- 
tables, as with a puree of spinach. 

a la Viennoise (a la vya-nwaz'). Applied to dishes 
usually and typically prepared in the Austrian capital, 
such as the dumplings termed nuckerln, quenelles of 
potatoes, and others. 

a la Villeroi (a la vel-rwa'). With atelets sauce. 
Also, said of a poached egg put in a thick white sauce, 
then covered with egg yolk and bread crumbs, and fried. 

a la vinaigrette (a la ve-na-gret'). With vinaigrette 
sauce. 

Al'bert bis'cuit. A kind of dariole, 

a r espagnole (a la-spa-nyol'). Made savory with 
espagnole sauce; specifically, served with a garnish of 
onions, garlic, green peppers, mushrooms, tomatoes, and 
minced ham cooked together, and bound with espagnole 
sauce. 

a I'estragon (a la-stra-goN'). With tarragon. 

a I'huile (a-lwel). In olive oil; with olive oil dress- 
ing. 

Alici (a-le'che). Anchovies, or a similar small fish 
preserved in oil according to the Italian fashion. 

a I'imperatrice (a laN-pa-re-tres'). Said of shirred 
eggs served with a slice of pate de fois gi-as upon each 

a I'Irlandaise (a ler-ian-daz'). Containing potatoes 
in some form, and often cabbage, etc., in mass or as a 
prevailing garnish. 

a I'ltalienne (a le-ta-le-en'). Generally made of, or 
garnished with, savory macaroni, or paste of that kind, 
or with ravioli; or made savory with Parma cheese. The 
phrases derived from Italian towns, such as a la Milan- 
fl/.sf, a la Florentine a la Napolitaine, etc., denote mere 
subordinate variations of this general mode, of no partic- 
ular significance. By some, macaroni with cream sauce, 
sliced mushrooms, ham and chicken slit in strips, and 



18 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

Parma cheese is called a la napolitaine; and macaroni 
with tomato sauce and cheese, d la Italienne. 

Allemande sauce (al-maNd'). Veloute sauce, with the 
addition of essence of mushrooms, cream, and a leason, 
or binding, of yolk of eggs. It is essentially bechamel 
with yolk of eggs. It is often flavored with nutmeg and 
lemon juice. 

almond (a'mund). A nut or fruit of any one of sev- 
eral varieties of the one species Amygdalus communis; 
as the bitter, sweet, thin-shelled, thick-shelled, and 
Jordan almonds. 

alose (a-los'). Shad. 

aloyau (a-lwa-yo'). Loin of beef; short rib of 
beef. 

amer (a-mar'). Bitters; as amer d^ Allemande (dal- 
maNd'), bitters of Holland gin. 

Amontillado (a-mon-tel-ya'do). A cheaper variety of 
wine classed as sherry, but in reality a wine from 
Sicily or other Mediterranean or Atlantic Islands, mixed 
with a little real sherry. 

ananas (a-na-na'). Pineapple, 

anchois (an-shwa'). Anchovies. 

anchovy (an-cho'vi). A small fish of the herring 
family, caught in the Mediterranean, and pickled for ex- 
portation. 

andouille (an-doo'y'). Tripe. 

Angel'ica. The green, aromatic stalks of the plant 
Archangclica officinalis, dried and candied. They retain 
their green color. They are used in puddings and in 
pastry, and, with the seeds, are used to make a liqueur 
called angelica. 

anguilles (an-ge'y^). Eels. 

anguilles grillee (an-ge'y' gre-ya'). Spitch-cocked, 
or grilled, eels.. 

anisette'. A cordial or liqueur flavored with anise 
seeds. 

apricot (a'pri-kot). A fruit allied to the plum, of an 
orange color, oval shape, and high flavor. 

Are'na rarebit. Same as Long Island rarebit. 

armer ritter (ar'mer rit'ter). Slices of bread dipped 
in egg and milk, sweetened, Ibread- crumbed, and fried; 
a variety of French toast. 

ar'rack. A spirituous drink made from fermented 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 19 

rice, molasses, and palm wine; any spirituous liquor; an 
East Indian term. 

arroz a la Valencia'na (iir-ro' a la). Valencia rice, a 
farinaceous substance in grains like rice. 

artichaut (ar-te-slio'). Artichoke. 

ar'tichoke. A plant somewhat resembling a thistle. 
It bears a kind of flowerhead which, with the receptacle, 
is esteemed for food. 

asperge (a-sparzh'). Asparagus. 

aspic (as-pek'). A savory jelly made of calves' feet, 
etc., or with extract of meat, flavored to suit the fancy, 
and stiffened with gelatine. The name is also given to 
various entrees made by imbedding different meats, etc., 
in the jelly. 

aspiquee (as-pe-ka'). Made sour with vinegar or 
lemon juice. 

atelets sauce (at-la') or sauce aux hatelets (sos o 
zat-la'). A sauce (such as egg^ and bread crumbs) used 
for covering bits of meat, small birds, or fish, strung on 
skewers (called hatelets) for frying. 

attereau (a-tro). A kind of ragout. 

au (o). See A la. 

Aubergine (o-bar-zhen'). The fruit of Solanum escu- 
lent um, a plant related to the potato and tomato. It is 
cooked like squash. 

au beurre roux (o bur roo). With browned butter. 

au chingaras (o shaN-ga-rii'). Sandwiched with ham 
and grilled; said of ox palates. 

au four (o foor). Baked in the oven, as a stuffed 
fish. 

au fromage (o fro-mazh'). With cheese. 

au gras (o gra). Containing meat; said of soups so 
made. 

au gratin (o gra-taN'). With a crust made by brown- 
ing in the oven; as spaghetti is often served au gratin. 

au jus (o zhii). In juice; in broth. 

au kirsch (o kersh). With kirschwasser; as an ome- 
lette or a punch containing this liqueur is termed au 
Jcirsch. 

aumelette (om-lef). Omelette. 

au naturel (o na-tii-rel'). In the natural condition; 
as, anchovies an nature], i.e., without oil or seasoning. 

au rhum (o riim). With rum. 
• 



20 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

auro'ra sauce. Sauce a 1' aurore. See A l' Aueore. 

au supreme (o sii-pram'). With supreme sauce. 

au vert pre (o var pra). With sweet or fresh herbs, 
esp., when they give a green color to the dish. 

au vin blanc (o vaN blaN'). With white- wine sauce, 
as fillets of fish. 

aux (o). See A la. 

aux cressons (o kres-soN'). With watercresses. 

aux rognons (o ro-nyoN'). With kidneys. 

baba (ba'ba). A kind of rich brioche cake, generally 
served with rum sauce. 

baignet (ba-nya'). A kind of fritter. 

bain Marie (baN ma- re'). A waterbath used in cook- 
ing. 

ballotine (ba-lo-ten'). A shoulder of lamb, boned, 
stuffed, larded, and braised. 

barbue (bar-bii'). A kind of fish. 

bard (bar). Barbel, a kind of fish. 

bardes de lard (bard de lar). Fat slices of bacon for 
covering meat to be braised. 

bar le due (bar le diik). A kind of jam of white goose- 
berries. 

bar'on of beef. The two sirloins not cut down the 
back, but left together. 

bar'on of hare. A dish consisting of the two loins of 
a hare braised. 

bar'on of lamb. The entire two loins of the lamb, with 
the upper part of both legs. 

barszcze (borsch). See Borsch. 

batvin'ia. A kind of Russian soup containing slices 
of salmon. 

Bava'rian cream. A cream jelly thickened with gela- 
tine and set in a mold, and variously flavored and en- 
riched; a Bavaroise; a kind of flummery. 

Bava'rian dumplings. Boiled pudding, consisting of 
bread fried in fat, breadcrumbs soaked in cream or milk, 
eggs, butter, flour, salt, and spice; or some other similar 
composition. 

Bava'rian sauce. A modified Dutch sauce of vinegar, 
eggs, and butter fiavored with crayfish butter. 

Bavaroise (ba-va-rwaz'). Bavarian. See Bavarian 

CREAM. 

becasse (ba-kas'). Woodcock. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 21 

beccafica (bek-kii-fe'ka). A kind of small Italian 
bird prized for its flesh in the fall. 

Bechamel (ba-shii-mel'), or, more properly, Bechamelle. 
Veloute white sauce mixed with cream; named after 
Louis de Bechamel, a French gastronomer. 

beche de mer (bash de mar). The trepang. 

beignet (ba-nya'). A fritter. 

benedictine (ben-e-dik'tin). A cordial resembling 
chartreuse. 

beurre (bur). Butter. 

beurre frais (bur fra). Fresh (unsalted) butter. 

beurre lie (bur le-a'). Dutch sauce with less butter 
than usual. 

beurre noir (bilr nwar). Butter browned without 
flour. 

beurre roux (bilr roo). Butter browned with flour. 

bigarade sauce (be-ga-rad'). Espagnole sauce flavored 
with orange juice and peel. 

bigarreaux (be-gii-ro'). Hard white or red cher- 
ries. 

binger schoppen (bing'ilr shop'pen). See Schoppen. 

biscottes (be-scof). Thin slices of brioche, dried, 
buttered, and sugared. 

biscuit (be-skwe'), French sponge cake. 

bis'cuit a c&uper (a koo-pa'). A form of sponge cake 
to be sliced and glaced with flavored sugar or sugar 
mixed with fruit juice. 

bis'cuit a la Genoise (a la zha-nwaz'). Sponge cake 
with aniseed flavor, to be cut and toasted. 

bis'cuit a 1' Ursuline (a liir-sii-len'). A sponge cake 
with rice and apple or apricot jam mixed into the paste, 
and grilled orange flower. 

bis'cuit de niauffes (df nyof). Piskinioff's. 

bisque (bisk or besk). A soup of crayfish, made by 
cooking them in broth with herbs, sliced roots, and 
seasoning; other similarly prepared shellfish soups or 
sauces are also called bisques. 

black pud'ding. A kind of sausage made of blood, 
suet, etc., and thickened with meal. 

blancmanger(blaN-max-zha') or blamange (bla-manj'). 
A jelly made with calf's foot, or gelatine, and milk of 
almonds; also, a jelly made of milk and starch, isinglass, 
or sea moss, with or without added chocolate, grenetine. 



22 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

or the like. This latter dish is more properly called 
flummery. 

blanquette (blaN-kef). A mince of white meat, as of 
chicken, warmed in veloute sauce, and pointed with 
butter and lemon juice. It often has added to it mush- 
rooms, morels, or truffles. 

blend. A liquor made by blending or mixing together 
different liquors. Blending does not necessarily imply 
inferiority. Most wines are blended. 

bloat'er. A herring steeped for a short time, slightly 
salted, and partially smoke-dried. The better kinds are 
often called Yarmouth bloaters. 

blond (bloN), Concentrated juice or extract of some 
viand, used to add to certain sauces to give them body; 
as blond de veau {de vo), a rich broth of veal made by 
slowly stewing veal with accessories of ham, rabbit, or 
the like, with standard broth, shallots, cloves, etc. When 
prepared according to a certain elaborate old receipt it 
is called blond de veau a la Duchatelet. 

bockwurst (bokVoorst). Sausage of goatmeat; veal 
sausages are often so called. 

boeuf de chasse (bfif de shiis). The sportsman's round 
of beef, — the biggest joint of the animal. 

bombe glace (boNb glii-sa'). A confection consisting 
of an ice casing frozen in the form of a truncated cone 
with cream of some kind, as Bavarian cream, inside. 

Bordeaux (bor-do'). Any wine produced in, or in the 
neighborhood of, Bordeaux, France. The Bordeaux wines 
are of the class usually called claret in English. 

Bordelaise sauce (bor-de-laz'). Espagnole sauce with 
garlic, aromatic herbs, and Bordeaux wine. 

borsch (borsh). A Polish ragout of many ingredients, 
colored with fermented and fresh juice of red beets. 

Bos'ton baked beans. Beans baked slowly for a long 
time and without stirring so as to leave the beans whole, 
and flavored with molasses and English mustard. 

bouchee (boo-sha'). A meat pie of puff paste and force- 
meat, big enough for one mouthful (literally, a mouth- 
ful of food). 

boudin (boo-daN'). A kind of entree prepared with 
delicate force meat. 

boudin ordinaire (boo-daN' 6r-de-nar') or boudin noir 
(nwiir). Black pudding. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULART 23 

bouillabasse (boo-ya-bas'). A soup made of fish 
broiled and seasoned with onion, orange peel, saffron, oil, 
and other seasoning to suit the taste. 

bouilli (boo-ye'). Beef stewed, generally in one piece, 
and served with sauce. 

boulettes de hachis (boo-l6t' de ha-she')." Forcemeat 
balls. 

bouquet' or fag'ot, of herbs. A bouquet garni. 

bouquet garni (gar-ne'). A tied bunch of parsley, 
onions, bay leaf, and thyme, used to boil in soup to 
flavor it. 

bourguigiLDnnes (boor-ge-nyon'). Snails baked with a 
dressing of shallots, garlic, lemon juice, and butter. 

box oysters. Oysters that have deep roundish shells, 
generally large. 

box stew. A stew of box oysters. 

braise (braz) or braise (bra-za'). A piece of braised 
meat, or a dish prepared by braising; also a preparation 
mixed and prepared of various ingredients in or with 
which dishes are braised. 

braise de Boulanger (bra-za' de boo-laN-zha'). A com- 
pound sauce in which meat is smothered when being 
braised. 

brasiere (bra-zyAr). A kind of kettle with a tight- 
fitting cover, w^hich has a place on top to hold burning 
coals, so that the contents of the kettle are subjected to 
radiant heat from above as well as to the heat from 
below. 

brandade de morue (bran-dad' de mo-rii') or brandade. 
A ragout of salt codfish a la mode de Montpellier), or of 
fresh codfish (a la mode de cabillaud). 

bra'sier. A pan for holding burning coals. 

bratwurst (brat'voorst). [German.] A kind of 
sausage. 

brawn. Headcheese. 

bren'ten. Cakes made of a roasted paste of pounded 
almonds and sugar, to which are added flour, milk, cinna- 
mon, and rosewater, before baking. 

bresolles (bra-zol). Stewed slices of meat, veal, or 
rabbit. 

bretonne sauce (bra-ton'). Espagnole sauce character- 
ized by juice of fried onions or puree of onions. 

Brie cheese or Brie (bre). See Cheese. 



24 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

brinjar. The fruit of a solonaceous plant eaten in 
India. 

brioche (bre-osh'). A kind of rich, flaky cake, espe- 
cially used to eat hot with coffee for breakfast. It is 
made of fermented dough and a butter-and-egg stirred 
dough, mixed and repeatedly doubled or folded. 

briochine verte (bre-o-shen' vert). A kind of dump- 
ling. 

bris'ket or brisquet (bre-ska'). The breast; the part 
of the breast next to the ribs. 

broccoli (brok'ko-li). A kind of cabbage resembling 
the cauliflower. 

broche (brosh). A spit. 

brochet (bro-sha'). Pike; luce, — a kind of fish. 

brocheton (bro-she-toN'). Pickerel. 

brochette (bro-shef). A skewer. 

broil. To cook by direct exposure to the heat of a 
fire, esp. upon a gridiron or on hot coals. 

broth. See Stock. 

Brussels biscuits. Same as Zwieback. 

Brus'sels sprouts (French pron. brii-ser). The tiny 
heads that grow in numbers upon the stalk of a kind of 
cabbage. 

brut (brii). See Champagne. 

biickling (biik'ling). Red herring. 

buisson (bwe-soN'). A dish disposed in a pyramid, 
and having a prickly appearance. 

bun or bunn. A slightly raised cake or biscuit slightly 
sweetened, and having a glazing of sugar and milk on the 
top cmst. 

bur'goo. Oatmeal porridge. 

Burgun'dian sauce. Espagnole sauce flavored with 
shallots and red Burgundy wine. 

Bur'gundy. A large class of wines, both white 
and red, made in and near Burgundy, in France. 
They are characterized by their rich flavor and ex- 
cellence, and with Bordeaux are the most esteemed 
wines. 

buffer sauce. A kind of blond sauce made of butter 
and sifted flour, nutmeg and pepper, kneaded together, 
melted and mixed with water or broth. The butter 
sauces are essentially emulsions of butter containing 
a watery solution of dextrine. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 25 

cabeach (ka-bech'). To preserve in oil; said of sar- 
dines and other similarly cured fish. 

cabillaud (ka-be-yo'). A fresh cod. 

cab'inet pud'ding. A composition of sponge cake, 
macaroons, lemon custard, with dried cherries, candied 
citron, etc., with a custard poured over it, and then 
baked. 

cafe (ka-fa). CoflFee. 

cafe au lait (kii-fa' o la). Coffee with (hot) milk; 
coffee to which milk is added during the process of infu- 
sion or boiling. 

cafe bavaroise (ka-fa' ba-va-rwaz'). Coffee with 
whipped cream. 

cafe noir (ka-fa' nwar). Black coffee; that is, coffee 
without milk. 

cafe parfait (ka-fa' par- fa'). A form of coffee ice 
cream. 

cafe Turc (tiirk). Turkish coffee; that is, coffee pre- 
pared by pouring boiling water on very finely ground 
coffee in the cup. 

caille (kal). Quail. 

calipash'. A part of turtle next to the upper shell, 
containing a dull greenish gelatinous substance, esteemed 
as a delicacy. 

calipee. A part of a turtle attached to the lower 
shell. It contains a fatty, gelatinous substance of a 
light yellowish color, esteemed as a delicacy. 

Cam'bridge sauce. Same as Remoulade. 

Camembert cheese (ka-maN-bar'). A rich, sweet, 
cream cheese, of a yellowish color, made in the neigh- 
borhood of Camembert, in Normandy, France. 

canard (ka-nar'). A duck. 

canellons (ka-ne-loN'). Hollow sticks or rolls of baked 
puff paste. 

canelons (ka-ne-loN'). Rugosities of ox palate, or 
preparations of them, covered with farce, rolled, and 
gratinated. 

caneton (ka-ne-toN). Young duck; duckling. 

cannelon of meat (ka-ne-lfiN'). A baked roll of highly 
seasoned mincemeat. 

ca'pers. The pungent, grayish green flower buds of a 
trailing shrub {Capparis spinosa) of Southern Europe. 

capilotade of chick'en (ka-pe-lo-tad'). A kind of 



26 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

ragoflt made of remains of fowl or game and some simple 
brown sauce. 

ca'pon. A castrated cock. It fattens better and is 
tenderer than the uncastrated ones. 

car'amel. Sirup of burnt sugar. 

carbonade (kar-bo-nad'). Meat grilled over a char- 
coal fire, especially veal, pork, or mutton. 

car'dinal sauce. Veloute variously flavored and colored 
red, as with cochineal. 

cardon (kar-doN') or cardoon'. x\ plant related to the 
artichoke. Its blanched leaf stalks, also called cardons 
(kar-doN') are eaten cooked or in salads. 

cane (ka-ra'). Breast. 

carrelet (kar-la'). A fish, the sole or flounder. 

cassareep'. A brown, slightly sweet, aromatic thick 
extract made from the juice of the manioc. 

cas'sava. A starch made from the manioc. 

casserole (kas'se-rol; French pron. kas-rol'). Stewpan. 

cas'serole of rice. An ornamental pie case made of 
paste of prepared rice. 

cassis (ka-ses'). Black currants; also, a kind of jelly, 
and a kind of liqueur or cordial, flavored with black 
currants. 

cau'dle. Spiced warm ale with groats. 

caviar or caviare (kav'i-iir or ka-ve-ar'). Roe of 
sturgeon, and other large fish, prepared and salted, and 
used as a relish. They often resemble morning-glory 
seeds in appearance. 

cele'riac. A form of celery with a large globular root 
which is eaten as food. 

cepes (sap) or ceps (sa). An edible kind of mush- 
room. 

champagne (sham-pan'). Properly: the eff'ervescent 
or so-called sparkling wine made in the former province 
of Champagne, in northeastern France. The efferves- 
cence 5s artificially produced by fermentation. The 
champagnes are classed as sec (dry), doux (sweet), or 
Irut. Brut w^as originally used to designate the new or 
unmanipulated wine, but is now used to designate man- 
ufactured champagnes with from 1 to 3 per cent, of 
liquor added. TJie greater or less sweetness is produced 
by the addition of a liqueur of sugar dissolved in old 
wine. The sweeter champagnes are usually the more 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 27 

effervescent. Hence, any effervescent wine; as California 
champagnes. Vintage wine or champagne is the finest 
wine of a particuhirly good year, kept separate and sold 
as the product of that year. 

champignons (shiiN-pe-nyoN'). Mushrooms. 

chapon (sha-poN'). Capon. 

chapon au gros sel (sha-poN o gro sel). Plain boiled 
capon; literally, capon served with a big lump of salt 
(placed upon it). 

charlotte russe (shiir-lof riis) or charlotte a la russe 
(shar-lof a la riis). A dish of custard or whipped cream 
inclosed in a cup of sponge cake. 

chartreuse (shilr-truz'). 1. A tonic cordial obtained by 
distilling various aromatic plants, especially nettles 
growing on the Alps. 

2. Originally, a preparation of fancy vegetables only in 
a plain mold; later, also, such a dish garnished with 
game, small birds, kebobs, tendrons, etc. 

chartreuse a la Parisienne (shilr-truz' a la pa-re-syen'). 
A showy entree, consisting chiefly of quenelles of force- 
meat, containing ragout and kebobs; an entree de force; 
an entree a surprise. 

chasse cafe (shas ka-fa'). A drink of liqueur sei-ved 
after the coffee at dinner. 

Chateaubriand sauce (sha-to-bre-aN'). See Maitre 
d'hotel butter. 

chaufxoid sauce (sho-frwa'). A white or brown jelly 
containing some sauce; a sauced jelly, or a gelatinized 
sauce. 

cheese. 1. The most important cheeses are: Brie cheese 
(bre), a soft white cream cheese. — Camemhert cheese (ka- 
maN-bar'), a rich sweet cream cheese, of a yellowish 
color. — Ched'dar cheese, a fine flavored English cheese. — 
Cot'tage cheese, a cheese made of light-pressed curds, 
made without rennet. — Dutch cheese, a small hard cheese 
made of skimmed milk, in molds. The outside is colored 
red. Also, cottage cheese. Gruyere cheese (grii-yar'), a 
kind of cheese in thin cakes, intermediate between the 
hard and soft cheeses. It is salted; there are many air 
bubbles and passages in it. — Lim'burger cheese, a kind of 
cheese eaten in a state of putrefaction. — Parmesan , or Par- 
ma, cheese, a hard, dry, grainy and highly flavored Italian 
cheese. It is often served grated with soups, spaghetti. 



28 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

etc. — Pont I'eveque cheese (poN la-vek'), a French soft 
cream cheese, much like Neufchatel cheese. — Neufchdtel 
cheese (nvlf-sha-ter), a cheese made by thickening cream 
by heat and pressing it in a small mold. — Pot cheese, cot- 
tage cheese. — Roquefort cheese (rok-fOr'), a French cheese 
made from milk of ewes. The cheeses are placed to cure 
in a cavern in the limestone rock at Roquefort, France, 
where the temperature is always about 40 degrees F., 
and there they are salted, and in about forty days a mold 
of reddish tint has formed, penetrating the substance 
of the cheese. It is then ready for consumption. — StiVton 
cheese, a solid, rich, white English cheese. Schweitzcr- 
kase (shvit'ser kaze) or Siviss cheese, Gruyere cheese. 

2. In England, also, a fruit jam. 

cher'vil. A plant (Anthriscus cerefolium) with finely 
divided leaves. Two curly varieties are used in soups 
and salads. 

chiffonade (she-/o-nad'). A salad preparation of let- 
tuce, chervil, sorrel, and scallions, with fresh butter, 
and some bouillon poured over it. When milk or fresh 
cream is added, it is called potage a la chiffonade; other- 
wise potage de sante (po-tiizh' de saN-ta'). The term 
chiffonade is also applied to a kind of mince-chicken 
soup. 

chiri. A kind or red pepper or Capsicum. 

chil'i sauce. A sauce condiment made A\'itli chilis, 
tomatoes, etc. 

Chinese' stur'geon soup. A soup of beef and veal, con- 
taining pieces of cartilage from the sturgeon's head 
boiled tender. 

chive. A plant allied to the onion, of which the young 
leaves are used in omelettes, etc. 

choc'olate eclair (a-klar'). An eclair with chocolate 
frosting. 

choucroute (shoo-kroof). French sauerkraut, or 
sauerkraut in general. 

choufleur (shoo-flur'). Cauliflower. ^ 

choux (shoo), (a) Cabbages, (b) See Choux patis- 

SIEBE. 

choux de Bruxelles (shoo de brii-sel'). Bnissels 
sprouts. 

choux de mer (shoo de mar). Sea kale, a kind of cruci- 
ferous pottage root. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 29 

choux patissieres (shoo pa-te-syar'). Souffles in small 
lya'vi''), deer civet de chevreuU, de (she-vru'y'), or other 
game, into which wine and onions enter as ingredients. 
The civet of hare is a dish of hare, jointed, and cooked 
with fried bacon or ham, mushrooms, onions, carrots, 
cloves, nutmeg, parsley, etc., with an addition of port 
wine. 

chow'chow. A kind of mixed pickles well spiced. 

chut'ney. A warm or spicy pickle or condiment con- 
sisting of a compound of sweet or acid fruit, and season- 
ing, such as currants or raisins, ginger, red pepper or 
chilis, garlic, mustard seed, and vinegar. 

ciboules (se-bool')- Scallions; a small variety of 
onions, of which the tops are eaten. 

civet (se-va'). A ragout of hare {civet de lievre, de* 
molds; small cakes of baked batter. 

clare'mont sauce. Butter sauce flavored by frying 
onions in it. The onions are removed after frying. 

club sand'wich. A sandwich of toast, chicken, lettuce, 
bacon or ham. Some use turkey instead of chicken. 

cock'-a-lee'kie. Capon soup, boiled with leeks and 
prunes, — a favorite Scotch dish. 

cock tail. A kind of mixed drink. See Martini, and 
Manhattan. 

cock'tail. of oysters or clams. A dish containing 
oysters or clams seasoned with ketchup, pepper, etc., and 
served in a tumbler or glass. 

cocotte (ko-kef). A kind of iron casserole with two 
loop handles and a cover. 

coeurs d'artichauts (kur dar-te-sho'). Artichoke heads. 

Cognac (ko-nyak'). A brandy distilled at Cognac, in 
France; hence, loosely, any French brandy. 

coing (kwaN). Quince. A liqueur, or ratafia, is made 
flavored with quince; and a jelly of quinces is called. 
coing de tranches (de transh). 

col'lared. This term is loosely used w ith no apparent 
definite meaning in the names of various dishes. 

col'lared beef. A thin piece of beef, usually from the 
flank, rolled into a round form. 

colbert (kol-bar'). See Sauce Colbert. 

col'lops. Small pieces or slices. 

com'fit. A dry sweetmeat; fruit, seed, or the like, pre- 
served in sugar and dried. 



30 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

compiegne cake (koN-pyan'). A kind of cake intended 
to be drenched with liqueur, sliced, and sandwiched with 
apricot jam. 

com'pote [French pron. koN-pot'). Cooked fruit; fruit 
preserved with sugar so as to preserve its form. Also, 
a savory dish of pigeons, quails or larks, mixed with 
peas or mushrooms. 

confit (koN-fe'). A dry sweetmeat; fruit preserved in 
sugar and dried; a comfit. 

confiture (koN-fe-tiir'). Preserves. 

consomme (koN-so-ma'). Strong broth of meat and 
vegetables, concentrated till slightly browned; in restau- 
rants applied to thin soups such as would be made by 
this broth diluted. 

carnichons (kar-ne-shoN'). Gherkins. 

cor'dial. A sweet and aromatic liquor. A liqueur is an 
alcoholic cordial. 

cote (kot). A rib. 

cotelette (kot-lef). A small rib; part of a rib; a piece 
of meat with the rib attached; a cutlet. 

cougloff (koo-glof). Corruption of Kugelhopf. 

coulis blanc (koo-le' blaN). Veloute finished by the 
addition of consomme of veal or fowls, white essence of 
mushrooms, and other white accessories. 

coulis brun (koo-le' brGN). Espagnole sauce combined 
with blond de veau and flavored with essence of mush- 
rooms. 

court bouillon (boo-y5N'). A very rich bouillon made 
by braising bouillon vegetables in butter, evaporating 
down, and then boiling in wine. It is added to sauces. 

cram'bambu'li. A punch made from fired whiskey and 
sugar melted in the flame. 

crapaudine. See A la crapaudine. ^ 

cream. As the name of a liqueur, see Creme. 

cream snow. Whipped cream. 

creme (kram or kram). A cordial of the relatively 
thick or viscid kind, such as creme de la menth (cream of 
minth), creme de la moka (cream of mocha coffee), 
creme de cocoa (cream of cocoa), etc. Cordials of this 
class are usually served with finely cracked ice, which 
cools and dilutes them. They take their names from 
the ingredient which gives ithem their characteristic 
flavors. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 31 

creme bachique (kram ba-shek'). A custard jelly with 
wine and egg- froth. 

creme brulee (kram brii-la'). Browned sugar, or cara- 
mel, with cream. 

creme fouettee a la paysanne (foo-et-ta' a la pa-zSn'). 
Whipped cream. ^ 

Creole (kra-ol'). See A la Creole, 

crepes (krap). Small fried cakes; a form of French 
pancake. 

crepine (kra-pen'). Caul. 

crepinettes (kra-pe-nef). A ragotlt made with hashed 
meat placed in pieces of crepine, or caul. 

cressons (kra-soN'). Cresses, 

crevette (kra-vef). Shrimp. 

cromes'kys. Same as Kromeskys. 

croquants (kro-kaN'), A piece of crisp pastry or con- 
fection which makes a crunching sound between the 
teeth, as a macaroon or a nougat. 

croute au pot (kroot o po). See Potage croOte au 

POT. 

crouton (kroo-toN'). Small pieces of bread fried in 
butter or oil, for use as a garnish to salmis, fricassees, 
etc., or to serve with soups. 

croquembouches (kro-kiiN-boosh'), Small mounted 
pieces of crisp pastry, such as macaroons, nougats, 
gimblettes, etc. 

croquettes (kro-kef). Balls of mincemeat coated 
with egg and breadcrumbs and fried crisp, — almost the 
same as rissoles, these latter being named from the rice 
which they contain, or are supposed to. 

croquignoUes (kro-ke-nyol'). Almond rock, the prin- 
cipal ingredient of croquembouches. 

croustade (kroo-stad'). A kind of crisp bread or rice 
patty. 

crum'pet. A kind of large, thin, light cake or muffin 
cooked on a griddle, 

cuissot (kwe-so'). Haunch. 

cup. A drink made of an alcoholic beverage, as ale, 
wine, champagne, etc., SAveetened and flavored according 
to various receipts, as (in the case of claret cup) by the 
addition of strawberries, pineapple, cherries, cucumber 
peel, lemon or orange peel, etc. 

cu'pid cake, or cupid. A love-well. 



32 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

curagao (koo-ra-so')- A cordial made of spirit 
sweetened and flavored with the rind of the bitter 
orange. 

cur'ry. A stew of meat or fish seasoned with curry 
powder and served with rice. The most noted curries are 
the Malay or Ceylon curry, made with cocoanut; the 
Moli curry, made about the same; the kubab (kebob) 
curry, made with kebobs of meat; and the quoorma 
curry, made like the preceding with turmeric (quoorma) 
and sugar, and pointed, or zested, with lemon juice or 
lime juice. 

cur'ry pow'der. A condiment for making curry, made 
of strong spices, as ginger, pepper, coriander seed, and 
various other materials, as garlic, etc. 

cyg'net. A young swan. 

dantesques (daN-tesk'). Frozen custards. 

dariole (da-re-ol'). A piece of pastry consisting of a 
shallow cup of short paste, filled with a rich compound 
of cream or custard with macaroons, fruit, or the like. 

darne (darn). Slice; cut. 

daube (dob). A seasoning of meat such as is used in 
making stews of mutton, birds, or veal. See A la 

DAUBE. 

daubiere (do-byar'). A vessel in which to stew joints 
or birds in daube. 

daurade (do-rad'). A kind of sparoid fish. 

de (de). Of. 

demi-tasse (da-me'tas'). A small cup for black coffee. 

desossee (da-so-sa'). Boned. 

dev'illed. Minced and finely spiced. 

dev'il's sauce. Espagnole sauce flavored with shallots, 
vinegar, and hot spices. 

Dev'onshire. This word is used adject ively to denote 
apples as an ingredient; as Devonshire squab pie, that is, 
a squab pie with apples. 

diablotins (de-ab-lo-taN'). (a) Frozen custards. (&) 
Neapolitan dragees. (c) Chocolate bonbons in paper. 

dijon (de-zhoN'). Wine made in France, mostly vin 
ordinaire. 

dinde (daNd). Turkey. 

dindonneau (daN-do-no'). Young turkey; turkey pout. 

di zara (de za'ra). A less common name for Maras- 
chino. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 33 

dun'elm of mut'ton. A kind of pudding of minced 
mutton, suet, breadcrumbs, eggs, anchovies, spices, 
mushrooms, and red wine, inclosed in a caul and baked. 

Dutch sauce. Butter emulged with yolk of e^^, or a 
sauce with this as a basis; HoUondaise sauce. 

d'uxelles sauce (diik-sel'). A stiff mince of mush- 
rooms, truffles, herbs, and scraped lean bacon or ham 
with veloute and eg^ yolk, used especiall}^ to cover 
entrees previous to their being crumbed and fried. 

echaudees (a-sho-da'). Cakes made of parboiled or 
baked paste. 

eclanche (a-klaNsh'), Shoulder of mutton. 

ecrevisse (a-kr'-ves'). Crayfish. 

empotage (aN-po-tiizh'). Consomme or gravy broth. 

en ballon (aN bii-loN')- Boned and stuffed with force- 
meat, etc.; — said of fowls' legs so cooked. 

en brochette (aN bro-shet'). On wooden skewers. 

en caneton (aN ka-ne-toN'). A term used to designate 
fowls' legs boned and stuffed with forcemeat, etc. 

en casserole (Sn ka-s'-rol')- In a casserole. 

en coquille (aN ko-ke'y'). (Served) in shells, as oysters 
prepared as if to be escalloped and then baked in shells 
and served. 

en cracovie (aN kra-ko-ve'). With salpicon wrapped 
in calf's udder or pig's caul; — said of ox palates. 

escal'oped. Baked in scallop shells or dishes; prepared 
with crumbs of bread or crackers and baked. 

escal'opes. Scollops; hence, lumps or small slices or 
dice of meat of any kind. 

escargots (as-kar-go'). Snails. 

escarole (es-ka-rol'). A species of chicory used for 
salads; also, a variety of lettuce resembling this. 

espagnole sauce (es-pa-nyol'). Brown sauce made by 
boiling meat and flavoring vegetables and spices in nor- 
mal broth to a glace, browning with roux, and removing 
the fat. This sauce is the basis of most other brown 
sauces. 

espagnole travaille (tra-va-yfi')- Coulis bnm. 

esturgeon (es-tiir-zhoN'). Sturgeon. 

faisan (fa-zJiN'). Pheasant. 

fanchonettes (faN-sho-n^f). Small cakes, like tart- 
lets, covered with meringue froth, with jam, currants, 
etc. 



34 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

farce. Finely minced meat; forcemeat. 

farcie (far-se')- Stuffing of forcemeat. 

farine de riz (fa-ren' de re'). Rice flour. 

fausse tortue (fos tor-tii'). Mock turtle. 

fecule de pommes de terre (fa-klir de pum de tar'). 
Potato starch, used especially in making Savoy cakes, 
and other gateaux. 

feuilletage (fu-ye-tazh'). Puff paste. 

filet (fe-la'). Eng. fil'let. (a) The under cut of the loin 
of beef and vension. (h) Breast of fowl or game when 
cut out (the inner muscles near the bone being the filet 
mignons; fe-la' me-nyoN'). (c) Any longish strips of 
meat or vegetables. 

filet du dedans (fe-la' dii da-daN'). The under cut of 
the loin of beef; a filet. 

fil'let. See Filet. Fillet is the usual spelling in Eng- 
lish culinary books. 

Fin'nan had'die. Haddock cured in peat smoke, origi- 
nally coming from Findon (pronounced fin'an) in Scot- 
land; also, haddock smoked in other ways. 

flageolets (fla-zho-la'). Beans. 

flamms. Pancakes. 

flan (flaN). A kind of French cake, resembling a cheese 
cake when small and a raised pie when large. The crust 
is filled with cream or swiss cheese, or with fruit pre- 
pared so as to have a thick, simpy sauce and then 
baked. A cheese flan is essentiall}^ a cheese souffle. 

flemish sauce. A sauce resembling bechamel sauce. 

fleurons (flfi-roN'). Punched-out ornaments of bread 
(crusted or fried), or of paste (baked), or of other ma- 
terials. 

flip. A warm drink of ale, eggs, and moist sugar, 
flavored with ginger, and with iiim or cognac brandy. 

Flor'ence cakes or Flor'entines. A kind of cake con- 
sisting of a thin shell of puff paste containing a com- 
position of curds, butter, yolks, flour, bitter almonds, 
and lemon, or a very similar composition. 

flum'mery. A cold, sweet dish chiefly of cereals, often 
with fruit in it, molded and to be eaten with wine, milk, 
or sauce. 

foie (fwa). Liver. 

fond (foN). The broth or juice from braised flesh or 
fish, usually served as a sauce. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 35 

fondue (foN-dii'). A preparation of cheese, eggs, and 
butter melted together. 

f raise (fraz). Strawberry. 

framboise (fraN-bwaz'). Raspberries. 

frangipane {French pron. friiN-zhe-piln'). A kind of 
compound pastry cream flavored with almonds, with 
which pastry is garnished. 

Frank'fort bren'ten. Same as Brenten. 

frank'furter. A kind of highly seasoned sausage; — 
usually rather slender and of a reddish color when boiled 
or stewed. 

frankfurt sausage. Same as Frankforter. 

French beans or peas. Beans or peas canned and 
colored so as to be of a bright green color. 

French chops. Rib chops of which the meat has been 
trimmed from the end of the bone and the bone scraped. 
This end is wrapped in paper when the chop is served 
at the table. 

French fried potatoes. Raw potatoes cut into strips 
and fried floating in hot grease. 

French pan'cakes. Pancakes of a batter of milk, flour, 
and eggs, fried thin and rolled up, often with some aro- 
matic, as gooseberry or apricot jam in the roll. They are 
sugared, and the sugar burnt with a hot iron when 
served. 

French toast. Bread dipped in e^g and milk and 
fried. 

friandise (fre-aN-dez'). A dainty. 

fricandeau (fre-kaN-do'). A piece of prime veal, a 
fillet of poultry, or the like, trimmed, larded and 
browned, and then stewed in soup stock, or baked and 
glaced with a concentrated jelly, — usually sensed as a 
side dish, n 

fricassee (fre-ka-sa'; Eng. pron. frik-as-se'). Chicken, 
veal, etc., cut in pieces, or ^n}'^ other meat or fish, pre- 
pared in a white sauce with such accessories as truffles 
or mushrooms. 

friture (fre-tiir'). A fried fish. 

fromage (fro-miizh'). Cheese. 

fromage a la Chantilly (Jl^ii shax-te-ye'). Apricot 
jam. 

fromage de Chantilly (de shJiN-te-ye'). Apricot jam. 

fru'menty. A fooc\ prepared by boiling wheat in milk 



36 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

to a jelly, usually with the addition of currants, sugar. 
egg yolk, and spice. 

fumet (fii-ma'). A high-flavored substance, such as 
extract of game, for flavoring dishes of food; also, less 
properly, a ragotit of partridge and rabbits braised in 
wine. 

gal'atine. Boned fowl, veal, or the like, stuffed with 
pieces of meat and force, boiled, and served cold, with a 
garnished of jelly or aspic. 

garimaufry; or galimafree (ga-le-ma-fra'). A kind 
of ragout of various kinds of meat highly flavored. 

garbangas (gar-ban-sas'). Chick-peas. 

garbure (gar-biir'). A soup of bacon and cabbage or 
other vegetables sometimes with cheese added. 

gar'nish. A thing added to a cooked dish to give it 
an attractive or tasty appearance; also something, such 
as vegetables, sippets of toast, etc., added to prepara- 
tions in cooking to give flavor or relish. 

Gas'cony sauce. Veloute with capers, truffles, and egg 
yolk. 

gaspacho (gas-pa'cho). A bread-and- vegetable salad, 
made by the Spanish, containing pimentoes, tomatoes, 
oil, and vinegar, and (in the richer form) fish, crayfish, 
piquant preserves, etc. 

gastron'omers sauce. See Sauce de gourmets. 

gateaux (ga-to')- Cakes of flour, butter, and eggs. 

gateaux de puits d'amour (de pwe da- moor'). Love- 
wells. 

gauffres (go'fr'). Waffles. 

gelee (zhe-la'). Jelly. 

Gene'va sauce. A coulis of fried onions with meat 
essence or espagnole, with anchory butter, and usually 
port or claret wine. It is used especially with fresh 
water fish. 

genoise sauce (zha-nwaz'). Espagnole sauce flavored 
with fumet and red wine. 

genoises (zha-nwaz'). Glazed cakes of sugar, eggs, 
flour, and almonds. 

Ger'man pan'cake. A pancake like the French pan- 
cake, but of a stift'er batter and fried thicker. When 
nearly done it is whipped into a hot oven where it 
becomes light and puli'y. It must be eaten at once. 
Fruit jam may be served on it. Also, a German puff. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 37 

Ger'man puff. A kind of dough cake cooked floating in 
hot fat, and often containing jam or fruit jelly inside; 
a Berlin pancake. Sometimes it is baked. 

Ger'man sweet sauce. Sauce made of a puree of cher- 
ries and prunes. 

Ger'man wine sauce. Allemande with wine, spices, and 
lemon zest. 

gher'kin. A kind of small nutmeg-shaped, prickly 
cucumber, used for pickles. 

gibier (zhe-bya'). Game, as hare, deer, etc. 

gigot (zhe-go'). Leg of mutton. 

gilka kiimmel (gel'ka kiim'mel). A brand of kiimmel. 

gimblettes (zhaN-blef). Small pastry preparations, 
such as croquignoles and croquembouches. 

gimblettes (zhaN-blef). Small pastry, or pates de 
petit four. They are used as ingredients of croquem- 
bouches. 

gibelotte (zhe-blof). Stewed rabbit; sometimes, 
stewed chicken or other white meat. 

gin. Corn spirits flavored with juniper. 

glace (glas). A glaze, or broth reduced by boiling to 
a gelatinous paste, so that when poured over meats it 
will give them a shiny appearance. 

glace (gla-sa'). Covered with glace. 

glaced (gliist). Iced; having a shiny appearance pro- 
duced by a coating of sugar, gelatine, or glace. 

glaize (glaz). A glace. 

glase (glaz). A ghtce. 

godiveau (go-de-vo'). A kind of mincemeat, usually 
of veal, made into balls, to garnish the interior of hot 
pat^s and vol an vents. 

gol'den buck. A Welsh rarebit served with a poached 
egg on it. 

goujon (goo-zhoN'). Gudgeon, a rather coarse fish. 

goulash (goo-lash'). See Gulash. 

gratin (gra-taN'). The brown crust formed upon a 
gratinated dish; also, the dish itself. 

grat'inate. To cook, as macaroni, in a savory sauce or 
broth until the juice is absorbed and a brown crust 
forms. 

gren'adine. A kind of fricandeau, with a basis of force- 
meat. 

grenouille (gre-noo'y'). Frog. 



38 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

grill. To broil. 

grondin (groN-daN'). The gurnard, a fish. 

grenadin (gra-na-daN'). A small fricandeau, or dish 
made with a basis of forcemeat. 

groseille a maquereau (gro-za'y' a ma-k'ro'). Goose- 
berry. 

gros roti (gro ro-te'). A large joint of roast meat. 

Gruyere cheese (grii-yar'). See Cheese. 

guava jel'ly (gwa'va). An excellent jelly made from 
the slightly astringent fruit of either of two tropical 
trees. 

gulash (goo-lash'), or Hunga'rian gulash. A ragout of 
rump steak flavored with paprica. 

gum'bo. A soup thickened with the mucilaginous pods 
of the okra; also, the okra pods themseh^es. 

Ham'burg steak. Beef from the round chopped fine 
and cooked in cakes, usually about the size of fish- 
cakes. 

hareng (ii-raN'). Herring. 

haricots verts (a-re-ko' var). Green string beans. 

haricot (a-re-ko'). A stew or ragout of meat. Also, 
the common string bean. 

hatelet (il-tla'). A metal skewer stuck through 
roots, truffles, crayfish, etc., fixed on large dishes. 

hatier (a-tya'). A spit rack. 

hedge'hog. A kind of confection made of sections of 
apple dipped in melted sugar and formed into a raised 
case which is filled with a pastry custard. The surface 
of the apples is left prickly all over with sharply sliced 
almonds, which are stuck into the apples. 

HoUandaise sauce (o-lliN-daz'; Eng. pron. hol'lan-djiz'). 
See Dutch sauce. 

homard (o-mar'). The European lobster, — larger than 
the American lobster, called homard americaine (o-mar' 
da-ma-re-kan'). 

hon'eycomb tripe. Tripe obtained from the reticulum, 
or second stomach, of the ox; — so called in allusion to 
the pitted appearance due to the folds of the mucous 
membrane. This is the best tripe. 

hors d'oeuvres (orduv'r'). Relishes; dishes which, while 
not sufficient to constitute a substantial meal, are served 
by themselves; as patties, rissoles, and other hot, light 
entrees, and cold entrees, such as sardines, oysters, 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 39 

anchovies, etc. The latter (cold hors d'oeuvres) are 
eaten directly after the soup. 

huitres (we'tr'). Oysters. 

huitres au lit (o le). Same as Pigs in blankets. 

hure de sanglier (iir de saN-glya'). Head of wild boar. 

Impe'rial tokay'. A sweet tokay, with little or no 
alcohol in it. See Tokay. 

Italian paste. The mixture of wheat flour and water 
of which macaroni is made. 

Italian sauce. A sauce of espagnole (then called 
sauce Italienne rousse), or of veloute, varied and flavored 
with shallots, mushrooms, and olive oil. 

jambon (zhiin-boN'). Leg. 

jardiniere (zhar-de-nyar'). A dish cooked a la jardi- 
niere. See A LA JARDINIERE. Jardiniere soup has as 
many roots and green vegetables as can be; it differs 
from julienne soup by the prevalence of green vegetables 
in it. 

Jeru'salem ar'tichoke. A species of sunflower, the 
tubers of which are sometimes used for food. 

jugged hare. Hare cut up and cooked in a jug or stone 
jar with ham, veal, and the ingredients of a ragout. The 
pot is tied over with a bladder and kept in boiling water 
for at least three hoursv 

Julienne soup (zhii-lyen'). Soup a la julienne. See A 

LA JULIENNE. 

jus (zhii). Broth; soup juice; gravy. 

kadgiori (kii'jo-re). Same as Kegeree. 

kari (kal'e or kii're). Curry. 

kebobs (ke-bobz'). Small slices or chunks of meat, as 
of mutton, run on a skewer, and grilled or otherwise 
cooked. 

kegeree (kej'tir-e). An East Indian preparation of 
fish, as a dish composed of boiled rice, chopped hard 
boiled eggs, cooked minced fish, and fresh butter. 

ker'neis of veal. Lymphatic glands cut out of joints 
and mesentery and braised or fried. 

kerse beer (kers). Cherry brandy, that is, brandy in 
which cherries have been kept. 

kholod'noy. A Russian fish soup containing caviare. 

khubabs'. Same as Kebobs. 

kieler sprotten (ke'lfir sprot'ten). Sprats canned in oil, 
and sold for less expensive sardines. 



40 BILL OF FARE YOCABULART 

kip'pered her'ring. A herring split, salted, and smoked. 

kirshwasser (kersh-vas'tir). A cordial distilled from 
the juice of the small black cherry. 

klose (klii'ze). Dumplings. 

knodel (kntl'del). Same as Bavarian dumpling. 

kromes'kys or kromes'kys a la russe (a la riis). Force- 
meat balls wrapped in cowl, thin bacon, or in braised 
calf's udder and fried. 

kugelhopfe (koo'gd-hop'fe). A rich German cake, 
corresponding to brioche. 

kumiss (koo'mis) or kumys. A beverage consisting of 
a liquor made by fermenting milk, originally mare's or 
camel's milk. 

kummel (koom'mel). A liqueur made in Germany and 
Russia flavored with cumin, caraway, or fennel. 

laitue (la-tii'). Lettuce. 

lal'la rook. Water ice with rum. 

lam'prey. A kind of eel-like sea fish. 

lamprillons (lilN-pre-yCN'). Young lampreys. 

lamproi (laN-prwa'). Lamprey. 

langostino (lan-go-ste'no). A peculiar prawn from the 
Atlantic near Cadiz. 

langouste (laN-goosf). The crawfish. 

langue (liiNg). Tongue. 

lapereau (la-p'-ro'). Young rabbit; cony. 

lapins en accolade (la paN a nii-ko-lad'). A brace of 
rabbits on a dish. 

lasagne (la-saN'y'). Ribbonlike strips of macaroni 
paste; also noodles. 

la'ver. The fronds of an edible seaweed, eaten with 
roast meat, also used to make a sauce. 

leason (le'son). Thickening, as flour, starch, egg yolk, 
etc. 

lebkuchen (lap'koo'-ken). A cake of flour and honey, 
variously flavored; also, a similar cake of flour and 
sugar. 

legumes (le-gumz'). Peas, lentils, or beans; im- 
properly, fruit or green vegetables. 

lev'eret. A young hare. 

levreau (la-vro'). A young hare. Levereau au sang 
(o saN), is a dish of young hares cooked with added 
pigeon blood. 

lit'tle pigs in blan'kets. Same as Pigs in blankets. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 41 

liaison (le-a-zoN'). Thickening; leason. 

liqueur (le-kur'). A sweet alcoholic preparation flavored 
with vegetable essences or distilled from an aromatic or 
flavoring substance; an aromatic, alcoholic cordial. 
Liqueurs are not beverages, properly speaking; but are 
to give a pleasant taste to the mouth after eating or 
drinking other things more substantial. 

London broil. A false fillet (piece under the kidney) 
rare broiled. 

longe (loNzh). Loin. 

Long Is'land rare'bit. A Welsh rarebit with an egg 
put into it while cooking, to stiffen it. 

love-well. A kind of little jam tart. 

lyonnaise pota'toes (ll-o-naz'). Potatoes sauteed or 
fried in thin slices with a little onion and parsley. 

Ly'ons sauce. Espagnole with flaked onions fried in 
oil. 

macarons (ma-ka-roN'). Macaroons. 

macaro'ni. A paste of wheat flour and water dried in 
the form of long slender tubes. When prepared in still 
smaller tubes it is called spaghetti and vermicelli. 

macaroon. A small cake composed chiefly of whites of 
eggs and sugar (meringue) with pounded almonds, or 
sometimes filberts, cocoanut, or the like. 

macedoine of fruit (ma-sa-dwRN'). A sweet jelly with 
whole fniit in its substance. 

__ macedoine of veg'etables. A mixture of several vege- 
tables, cooked, with some white sauce added. 

macedoine sal'ad. A salad of mixed vegetables. 

macroon'. A macaroon. 

Mad'eline or Madeleine (ma-d'lan'). A kind of small 
rich butter cake (of the pound cake variety) plain or 
variously ornamented, as with frosting, nuts, fruit, etc. 

madere (ma-dar'). Madeira wine. 

maigre (ma'gr'). Lean meat; also, any food other 
than meat. Also, a kind of fish. Maigre soups are those 
without meat, such as those used in Lent. 

manchon de morue (maN-shoN' de mo-rii'). The thick 
middle part of a codfish. 

maitre d'hotel but'ter (ma'tr' do-tel'). Butter mixed 
with parsley, lemon juice, salt, and nutmeg, — cold maitre 
d'hotel sauce. When gently warmed and stirred to a 
cream it forms maitre d'hotel sauce. If bechamel is added 



42 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

over the fire it forms compound mattre dliotel sauce; if 
veloute is added it forms maitre d' hotel sauce liee (le-a') j 
if espagnole sauce is added, it forms sauce Chateaubriand 
(shJi-to-bre-aN'). Thick tenderloin steaks are ofter 
served with this sauce and a jardiniere of vegetable*,, 
and called steak a la Chateaubriand. 

manchons de veau a la Gerard (maN-shoN' de vo a la 
zha-rar'). A dish of slices of veal rolled and stuffed. 

Manhat'tan cock'tail. A drink containing vermouth 
and whiskey (\), and angostura bitters (^). 

man'nakroup'. A kind of semolina prepared for use 
in puddings, etc., as of rice flour, wheat flour, and eggs. 

maraschino (ma-ra-ske'no). A cherry cordial made in 
Dalmatia from a sour cherry called marasca-, hence, a 
similar liqueur prepared elsewhere. 

marasquin (ma-ra-skaN'). French for Maeaschino. 

marchand de vin (mar-shilN' de vaN'). Stewed with 
shallots, espagnole, and claret wine; — said especially of 
kidneys. 

march'pane. A cake of pounded almonds or pistachio 
nuts and sugar. 

mar'igolds. Little cakes of puff paste with almonds 
arranged like petals about them. 

marinade'. A brine or pickle spiced and flavored, often 
with wine added. 

marinate. To dress or preserve with a marmade. 

mar'joram. A mint-like plant used to season dishes. 

mar'malade. A preserve or confection made of fruit 
pulp, originally quince, boiled with sugar to a jam-like 
consistence. 

marsala (mar'sa-la). A class of white Sicilian wines, 
of which the best kinds resemble Madeira, but are 
lighter. 

martini cock'tail (mar-te'ne). A drink containing gin, 
orange bitters, and vermouth, and gum arable. It is 
called dry when the gum arable is omitted. 

matelot (ma-tlof). Espagnole sauce flavored with 
onions, fish broth, and mushrooms. Also a rich fish stew, 
flavored with wine. 

mauviette. (mo-v'-yef). A kind of lark. 

mayonnaise sauce (ma-yo-naz'). A sauce of egg yolk 
and oil worked together, less properly with vinegar. 

May wine. See Wine, May. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABUL'ARY 43 

mazarines (maz-a-renz'). Ornamental entrees made of 
forcemeat, with fillets of meat. 

mec'ca cake. A kind of baked cake of soft flour paste 
or batter filled with cream. 

melt'ed but'ter. Butter sauce. 

menniere (me-nyar'). With brown butter, lemon juice, 
and parsley. 

meringue (ma-raNg'). Icing of white of egg and sugar 
thoroughly beaten together, sometimes with starch 
added. Pure meringues are called baisers (ba-sa') or 
Spanish foam. 

meringue glacee (gla-sa'). A glazed meringue. 

merlan (mar-laN'). The whiting, a fish. 

merluche (mar-liish'). The haddock. 

mignonette pepper (min-yim-et'). Pepper coarsely 
broken so that it resembles mignonette seed. 

milk punch. A beverage of milk and spirits, but 
mostly milk. 

mirabelles (me-ra-bel'). Plums of a certain superior 
variety. 

mirepois or Mirepoix (me-r^-pwa'). A kind of rich 
sauce for braising. It is prepared from various meats 
(ham, veal, etc.) and vegetables. 

mirliton (mur-li-ton; French pron. mer-le-toN'). A kind 
of tartlet with puff paste as the basis, constructed like 
cheese cakes, but with the cheese left out. 

miroton (me-ro-toN'). Boiled beef smothered in onions. 
Inaccurately, a dish of cotelettes, fish fillets, or the like, 
arranged overlapping each other in a circle with the 
center filled with a sauce or ragofit. A dish so pre- 
pared is called en miroton. 

mitonnee (me-to-na'). Simmered; soaked; stewed. 

mock crab toast. A plain form of Welsh rarebit. 

mock hare. A fillet of beef a la Milanaise. 

mock tur'tle soup. An imitation of turtle soup made 
of calf's head, instead of turtle. Sometimes parts of 
pig's feet, pig's ears, etc., are used. 

moka (mo-ka'). Mocha coff'ee. 

morceau des clerc (mor-so' da klerk). The back of a 
loin of beef. 

mo'rel. A kind of mushroom with a reticulated and 
pitted hymen. 

morue (mo-rii'). Codfish. 



44 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

mou de veau (moo de vo). Calf's lights. 

moules (mool). Mussels. 

moules a la bordelaise (a la bor-de-laz'). Mussels in 
forcemeat. 

mousseline (moo-slen'). A kind of brioche. 

mousseron (moo-sroN'). Mushroom (the edible 
kind). 

mouton (moo-toN'). Mutton. 

mulled (muld). Properly, heated and spiced; but often 
used to mean, made mild by sugar (acid wines), or by 
dilution (alcoholized wine). 

mul'ligatawny or Mul'ligatunny. A spiced or curried 
soup of hashed chicken and rice. 

mum'bled hare. Minced hare's meat stewed with other 
ingredients, as eggs, butter, spice, etc. 

Murae'na. The sea eel. 

Napo'leon. A sweet consisting of crusts of rich paste 
with cream between. 

Na'ples biscuit. Lady fingers. 

Na'ples ice, Na'ples ice cream. Same as Neapolitan 
ICE; Neapolitan ice cream. 

Neapolitan ice, Neapolitan ice cream. Ice or ice 
cream prepared in layers, especially when colored, as 
in white, red, and yellow. 

Neapolitan sauce. Espagnole flavored with grated 
horseraddish, and a sweet and savory wine fumet. 

nec'tarine. A smooth skinned variety of peach. The 
Spanish nectarine is a plum-like West Indian fruit, which 
is made into a sweet conserve. 

nesselrode pudding (nes'sel-ro-dc). Iced or frozen 
chestnut-and-fruit pudding. 

Neufchatel cheese (niif-sha-tel'). See Cheese. 

New York baked beans. Beans boiled and then baked, 
and stirred so that the beans are mashed. 

nivernaise (ne-var-naz'). A ragout-like dish of carrots 
stewed in consomme. 

nock'erlin. Dumplings consisting of a stirred dough 
containing spices and Parma cheese. 

noix (nwa). Knuckles. 

noo'dles. Very thin strips of dried dough made of 
flour (i lb.), eggs (4), and a little butter or sweet cream ^ 
worked by repeated rolling and folding. It is variously 
used, as in soups. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 45 

Nor'man, Normande (nOr-mUNd'). See A la Nor- 
man de. 

nougat (noo-gii'). A mixture of almonds, pistachios, 
filberts, or the like, and honey or sugar baked to- 
gether. 

nouilles (noo'y'). Same as Noodles. 

noyau (nwii-yo'). A kind of cordial made from bitter 
almonds directly, or with pounded apricot or peach ker- 
nels, or cheriy laurel, or young peach leaves. 

nudeln (noo'deln). Noodles. 

oeufs (uf). Eggs. 

oeufs broulles. Scrambled eggs. 

oeufs a la farce (uf a la fiirs). Hard boiled eggs with 
stewed sorrel. 

oeufs a la tripe (a la trep). Hard boiled eggs with 
onion sauce. 

ognon (o-nyoN'). Onion. 

ognon d'Egypte (da-zhepf). The rocambole, a mild, 
sweet onion. 

o'kra. A plant the long green, mucilaginous pods of 
which are used in soups, stews, etc. 

olla (ol'la). Ragout. 

omelette au thon (om-lef o toN'). Omelette with 
tunny, a kind of fish. 

omelette aux confitures (o kON-fe-tiir'). An omelette 
served with fruit jelly. Jams do not go well with ome- 
lettes. 

oreilles (o-ra'y'). Ears; as, oreiUcs dc veaii {de vo), 
calf's ears. 

orgeade (or-zhad')- Milk of almonds, made by stirring 
sirup of almonds in water; also, orgeat. 

orgeat (or-zha'). Sirup of almonds; also, orgeade. - 

Or'leans sauce. A mince of carrots, anchovies, hard- 
boiled eggs, and gherkins, with peppersauce. 

or'tolan. The bobolink. 

oseille (o-sfil'). Sorrel. 

oys'ter plant, (a) Salsify, (h) A plant the edible 
green leaves of which have an oyster-like flavor. 

pabrica (pa'bre-ka). Paprica. 

pain (paN). Bread. 

panachee (pa-na-sha'). Set or made in varied colors. 

panada (pa-na'da), panade (pa-nad'). Bread soaked 
in water, milk, cream, or broth, and pressed; also, less 



46 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

usually a paste of flour, butter, and water, stirred with 
eggs, to be mixed with forcemeat. 

panais (pa-na'). Parsnips. 

panee (pa-na'). Bread-crumbed (over egg yolk, sauce, 
butter, or fat) previous to frying. 

paniere (pa-nyar'). A basket, as that for holding a 
wine bottle. Also, an entree panee. 

pannequets (piin-ka'). French pancakes. See French 

PANCAKE. 

panure (pa-niir'). A bread-crumbed entree, 
paprica (pa'pre-ka). A mild kind of red-pepper condi- 
ment obtained from Capsicum annmim. 
parfait amour (par-fa'ta-moor'). A kind of cordial, 
parfait au cafe (par-fa'to ka-fa'). Same as Cafe 

PARFAIT. 

Pari'sian loaves. Finger cakes ornamented ^vith strips 
of currant jelly, green-gage jam, or the like. 

Pari'sian sauce. Allemande flavored with truffles and 
tinted. 

pas'caline. White mushroom sauce. 

pas'ty (pas'ti). A pie consisting, usually, of meat 
inclosed in a crust and baked, often on a flat dish. 

pate (pS-ta'). A pasty. 

xnoqo xnB 8:^Fd (pa-ta' o shoo'). Cream-oake paste, 
which resembfes a cabbage head when baked. 

pate de foie gras (pa-ta' de fwiigrji). Pie of fat livers. 

pate mollette (pa-ta' mo-let'). A Mecca cake. 

pates (pa-ta'). Pasties. 

pates chauds (sho). Hot pasties. 

pates de petit four (de pe-te' foor). Small pasties; — 
literally, pasties of the little oven. 

pates froids (frwa). Cold pasties. • 

pat'ty. A pasty. See Pasty. 

paupiettes (po-pyef). Slices of meat, usually of veal, 
covered with slices of bacon, spread with forcemeat, 
rolled, wrapped in paper, and roasted. 

peach bowl. A beverage of wine with peaches in it. 

pepper pot. A stew or soup of cassareep, vegetables, 
and pieces of flesh or fish. 

perdreux (par-drfi'). Partridges. 

perdrix (pfir-dre'). A partridge. 

per'ry. Pear wine. 

persillade offish (pjlr-se-lad'). Fish with parsley. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 47 

petit roti (pe-te' ro-te'). A ro<ast fowl. 

petit sale (sa-la'). Pickled pork in small pieces. 

petits choux. Same as Choux patissiere. 

petits fois (pe-te' fwii). Pease. 

petits pieds ipe-te'pya). Came and small quadrupeds 
for roasts. 

pheasant (fezV/nt). A kind of large game bird, origi- 
nally from Asia, but now found in most of Europe. 

pigeonnaux (pe-zlio-no'). Squabs. 

pigeons innocents (pe-zhoN' e-no-saN'). Squabs. 

pigs in blankets. Oysters wrapped in thin slices of 
bacon, fastened with skewers, and cooked till the bacon 
is crisp. 

pilaff (pi-laf). Same as Pilau. 

pilau (pi -law') or pillau. An oriental dish of rice 
stewed with mutton, lamb, or fowl, almonds, raisins, as 
saffron and other spices, etc. 

pimen'to. Alspice, or Jamaica pepper. 

pim'-o'la. An olive stuffed with sweet peppers. 

pine'apple bowl. A beverage of wine with pineapples 
in it. 

pintade (paN-tiid'). Kind of fowl. 

piquante sauce (pe-kaNt'). Espagnole with pickles 
added and flavored with shallots. 

piskinioffs (pes'ke-nyofs). Polish cakes. See^ Baba. 

pistachio (pis-ta'sho). A pale greenish nut resembling 
the almond. 

pithiviers cakes (pe-te-vya'). A kind of cake with a 
sweet paste of almond on a basis of puff paste. 

placouse (pla-kooz'). A dariole with apricot jam and 
nuts, such as almonds, pistachios, or filberts. 

plombiere (ploN-byar'). A kind of frozen fruit pud- 
ding. 

pluche (pliish). A chopped or finely cut mixture of 
parsley, chervil, tarragon, and lettuce or sorrel. 

poached. Cooked by being broken into hot water; — 
said of an egg. 

poche (po-slia'). Poached. 

poele (pwal). A frying pan; a fry; also, a general 
sauce, essentially the same as stock. 

poisson (pwa-soN'). Fish. 

poivrade (pwa-vrad'). Peppersauce. 

polen'ta. Porridge. 



48 BILL OF FARE VOGABULART 

Po'lish ragout (la-goo'). Same as Borsch. 

Polish sauce. Allemande flavored with horseradish 
and spices. 

polonaise cakes (po-lo-naz'). A kind of tart made of 
puff paste with jelly at the corners. 

polo'ny. A dry sausage of partly cooked meat. 

pomme (piim). Apple. 

pomme d'Api (pimi da-pe'). Small rosy apple. 

pomme de terre (de tar). Common Irish potatoes. 

pompa'no. A highly esteemed marine food fish. 

poor man's sauce. Sauce of chopped onions, pepper, 
and salt, with a little water. 

popiettes (po-pyef). Same as Paupiettes. 

Portugese' sauce. Espagnole flavored with sherry, 

pos'set. Hot milk curdled with wine. 

potage (po-tiizh'). Soup; pottage; broth. 

potage a la Camerani (a lii ka-ma-ra'ne). A rich kind 
of chicken-liver soup. 

potage croute au pot (kroot o po). Plain broth with 
vegetables and crusts browned in gravy. 

potage de sante (de silN-ta'). See Chiffonade. 

pot au feu (po to fu'). A dish of broth, meat, and 
vegetables, prepared by boiling them in a pot. 

poupeton (poop-toN'). A dish consisting of a border of 
boiled rice with a fricassee of fowl or fish in the center; 
also, a ragout of meat covered with rice, bread crumbs, 
Parma cheese, and butter, and then baked. 

poupetonniere (poop-to-nyar'). A vessel to make a 
poupeton in. 

port. A wine taking its name from Oporto, in Portu- 
gal. Real port is sometimes pale, but usually purplish 
or dark red. Practically no pure port is now sold under 
that name, the stuff sold as port being a sweetened 
blend, often of indifferent quality, and excessive alco- 
holicity. 

por'ter. A dark brown, moderately bitter, malt liquor 
or beer, of English origin. 

pot pourri (po poo- re'). A ragotit of various meats 
and vegetables cooked together. 

pousse cafe (poos kii-fa'). A drink of liquor served at 
dinner after the coffee; especially, a drink of cordials 
of different colors poured so as to be in layers in the 
glass. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 49 

praline (pra-len'). A burnt almond. 

presale (pra-sa-la'). A kind of especially good mutton. 

printaniere (praN-ta-nyar'). A dish cooked a la prin- 
taniere. See A la printanieke. Printaniere soup is 
the same as jardiniere soup, essentially. 

profiterolles (pro-fe-trol'). Sweet entremets, a kind 
of cake filled with custard. 

provengale gar'lic but'ter (pro-vaN-sal'). Butter with 
garlic and olive oil stirred in. 

provengale sauce. A name by some given to remou- 
lade; also, to a sauce of espagnole flavored with oil and 
garlic. 

puchero (poo-cha'ro). A simple ragofit of meat and 
vegetables. 

pumpernickel (poom'per-nik'l). Black bread made in 
Westphalia of unbolted rye. It is of an acic taste. 

punch. An alcoholic drink m^de of any of the princi- 
pal distilled spirits, with the juice and zest of lemon 
and sugar. 

puree (pii-ra'). A pulpy maceration of meat, vege- 
tables, fiiiit, or the like, passed through a sieve. 

quail. An}^ one of several plump-gTowing game birds 
of the Old World and of America. The American quails, 
as the bobwhite, belong to the partridges. 

quartier (kiir-tya'). Quarter; especially forequar- 
ter. 

quasi de veau (ka-ze' de vo). The thick end of a loin 
of veal. 

quenelle (ke-nel'). A kind of delicate forcemeat ball 
or dumpling. 

radan cake (ra-daN'). Same as Rat an cake. 

radis (ra-de'). Radish. 

ragout (ra-goo'). A rich compound consisting of 
quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, etc., mixed with a rich 
sauce, and used to garnish rich dishes; also, a dish gar- 
nished with this. 

ramequin (ram'e-kin; French pron. ra-me-kaN'). A 
pastry consisting of a preparation of cheese inclosed in 
or mixed with puff paste, and baked or browned. Cheese 
straws are thin ramequins of cheese mixed with puff 
paste. 

ratafia (ra-ta-fe-ii'). {(i) Noyau, curacao, or other 
liqueur containing kernels of fruit, as of peaches, cher- 



50 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

ries, etc. (&) A small macaroon made mainly of bitter 
almonds. 

ratan cake (ra-taN'). A kind of butter- and -egg dough 
cake resembling brioche. It usually contains fruits, 
nuts, or spices, or all of these. 

ravigote (ra-ve-gof). Any sauce made of refreshing 
green fine herbs, including chervil, parsley, chives, garden 
cress, celery, balm, and (for green ravigote) spinach, — 
all pounded together. Veloute flavored with spiced 
vinegar and harvey sauce is called white ravigote. 

ravioli (ra-vyo'le). Little shells or cases of thin 
nouilles dough, containing a savory forcemeat, boiled 
in broth. They are served either in soup or, with brown 
gravy, as an entree. 

rechauffe (ra-sho-fa') or rechauffee. Warmed or 
heated over a second time. 

reedbird. The bobolink. 

re'gency sauce, or brown re'gency sauce. Espagnole 
flavored by a fumet of eels and herbs. 

re'gent's punch. A complex and rich punch made by 
stewing muscatel raisins (4 lbs.), filtering it, condensing 
and adding sugar, and then dissolving in strong green 
tea (1 pt.); and adding to this rum (J pt.), cognac 
(1 pt.), madeira (1 qt.), curagao (1 pt.), pineapple sirup 
(i pt.), seltzer water (1 qt.), and champagne (2 qts.). 
To this are added lemon and orange and sugar to suit 
the taste. 

releves (ra-l'-va')- Same as Eemove. 

remoulade (ra-moo-lad'). A puree of anchovies, 
capers, parsley, shallots, and hard boiled eggs, dressed 
with spices, oil, and vinegar. 

remoulade a la provengale (a la pro-vaN-sal"). Remou- 
lade not sieved and with more oil. 

remove. A dish removed from the table to make room 
for another; — applied generally to the roasts, joints, 
turkeys, fillets, etc., which follow the soup and fish at 
an ordinary dinner of several courses. 

Rhine wine. Any wine made in the region of the 
Rhine, especially a light, still wine produced there, 

ricebird. The bobolink. 

lis de veau (re de vo). The sweetbread; pancreas. 

rissole (re-sol'). A kind of pastry made of minced and 
spiced meat or vegetables, or fruit, wrapped in paste, 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 51 

and fried in fat, — originally one containing rice as an 
ingredient. 

rissole (re-so-la'). Browned by baking or frying. 

rissolette (re-so-lef). A croutade, or bit of fried 
bread containing or holding a little portion of force- 
meat. 

roc'ambole. A kind of onion having very sweet, mild, 
small bulbs. It is used in the place of stronger garlic. 

rognons (ro-nyoN'). Kidneys; fries. 

romaine salad (ro-man'), A kind of mixed vegetable 
salad. 

roL'pens. A brawn made by the Dutch from tripe 
mixed with minced beef and other ingredients. It is 
fried for a hot dish. 

Ro'man punch. A water ice flavored, as with lemon, and 
mixed with rum or other spirits. Also, a complicated 
punch, similar in preparation to regency punch, with 
added frozen white of egg froth. 

roquefort (rok-for'). See Cheese. 

rosolio (ro-zo'lyo) or {less properly) rosoglio (ro- 
zo'lyo). A kind of sweet cordial made of brandy, sugar, 
raisins, etc. 

rothe griitze (ro'te groot'se). A flummery of rice grits 
and fruit juice. 

roulette (roo-lef). A dish consisting of a slice of 
meat spread with stuffing, rolled, and stewed or braised. 

roux (roo). Browned by frying in butter or other 
grease. 

roux blanc (blRN). Starch or flour fried in fat so as to 
be hardly colored. 

roux brun (briiN'). Fried a dark brown. 

royal buck. A Welsh rarebit served w' ith two poached 
eggs on it. 

royal hag'gis. A dunelm of mutton. 

rum punch. A punch in which rum is used to give the 
characteristic flavor. It is usually colored dark amber 
by French cooks. 

rumsteck (riiN-stek'). Rumpsteak. 

Rus'sian cab'bage soup. A soup of onions, cabbage, 
and quenelles. 

Rus'sian sauce. A velout6 with egg yolks and strong 
herbs. 

Rus'sian soup. A gravy soup of veal, fowl, etc., with 



52 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

souchets of salmon, eel, perch, mullet, quenelles of whit- 
ing, lobster coral, and mushroom puree. 

sabayon (sa-ba-yoN'). Wine (madeira or malvoise) 
mulled with egg yolks, sugar, and cinnamon. 

saindoux (saN-doo'). Hog's grease; lard. 

salad russe (sa-lad'riis). A dish of chicken meat, ham, 
veal, etc., diced, arranged separately and served with 
truffles, and tartar sauce, or caviar and sardelles, 
etc. 

Sal'ly Lunn. An English tea cake. 

salmagun'dy. A salad of cold chicken, veal, eggs, beet, 
anchovies, etc., finely minced and spiced. 

salmis (sal-me'), A ragout of roast game or fowl in 
rich gravy or sauce. 

sarpicon {French pron. sal-pe-koN'). A ragout or rich 
compound of chopped meat or fish and vegetables with 
savory sauce, used as a separate dish, as a garnish, to 
stuff meats, etc. 

salsifis (sJll-se-fe')- Salsify. 

salsify. A kind of plant the root of which is eaten 
boiled or fried. It has the flavor of oysters, whence it 
is called oyster plant. Black salsify is the related 
corzonera, similarly eaten. 

sangaree'. A West Indian brandy punch with maderia 
wine and lime juice added. 

sanglier (saN-glya'). Wild boar. 

sap'sago. A kind of Swiss cheese flavored with blue 
melilot, or sweet cloves, having a vanilla- like odor. 

Sa'rah Bern'hard pota'toes. Potatoes cut raw into 
a double spiral form and fried in hot fat. 

Sarato'ga pota'toes. Raw potatoes cut into thin slices 
and quickly fried crisp in hot lard and then salted. 

sarcelle (saf-sel'). Teal duck. 

sardel'len. Anchovies. They are prepared, like sar- 
dines, in oil, in salt, and in the form of a paste. 

sauce au pauvre homme (o pov rom). Poor man's 
sauce. 

sauce aux hatelets (o za-tla'). Atelets sauce. 

sauce beurree a la TAnglaise (bti-ra' a laN-glaz'). 
Butter sauce. 

sauce blanche (blaNsh). Butter sauce, 

sauce Colbert (kol-bar'). Brown sauce with meat 
glace, lemon juice, parsley, and butter stirred in. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 53 

sauce de gourmets (de goor-ma'). A coulia with a 
puree of tomatoes and crayfish butter. 

sauce en tortue (^n tor-tii'). Espagnole sauce, a 
kind of sauce used for calf's head. 

sauce Italienne rousse (e-ta-lyen' rocs). See Italian 

SAUCE. 

sauce piquante (pe-kaNf). An acid or sour sauce. 

sauce Robert {French pron. sos ro-bar'). A full-flavored 
espagnole sauce, strongly flavored with onions, mustard, 
and zested with lemon juice or vinegar. 

sauce rousse (roos). Brown sauce. 

saucisson (so-se-soN'). A kind of short, thick sausage. 

sauerkraut (sou'iir-krout). A dish of cabbage cut fine 
and fermented in a liquid of its own juice and salt. It 
is washed and stewed, as in butter, and served with 
meats, etc. An imitation of this is produced of fresh 
white cabbage steeped in sugar and vinegar, and is often 
called French sauerkraut (choucroute) or Bavarian sauer- 
kraut. 

saumon (so-moN'). Salmon. 

saur (sor). Smoked heiTing. 

saute (so-ta')- Lightly and quickly fried in little 
grease. 

sauterne (so-tarn'). Any of a certain white wines 
produced in, or coming from, Sautp'-ne or its neighbor- 
hood in France; as: (a) Literally, a white wine produced 
at the village of Sauterne, some distance above Bordeaux. 
(b) Any white wine of similar character and flavor ex- 
ported from Bordeaux. 

All these wines are sweet, losing the excess of sweet- 
ness with age; but some of them as Chateau Yquem and 
Chateau Suduiraut are much superior to those in class 
(a), which latter are often called haut sauternes (o so- 
tam). 

savoy' cakes. Lady fingers or other fancy cakes of 
sponge-cake paste. 

schmarn. A kind of pancake. 

schnitzel (shnits'el). See Wiener schnitzel. 

schoppen (shop'pen). A pint glass or cup, such as the 
tall glass used to serve wine in German restaurants. 

scones (skonz). Scotch cakes of oat meal or flour. 

scorzonera (skor-tso-na'ra). Black salsify. See Sal- 
sify. 



54 BILL OF FARE YOCABZILARY 

Scotch style. See A la Caledonian, 

Scotch whiskey. Whiskey impregnated with the taste 
of smoke. 

Scotch woodcock. A preparation of scrambled eggs, 
served upon toast that has been buttered and spread 
with anchovy paste. 

sec (sek). See Champagne. 

selle (sel). Saddle. 

semoli'na. Properly, the large hard grains retained in 
the bolting machine after the fine flour has passed 
through. Also, and more generally, in cookery, finely 
broken nouilles paste. 

semo'na. Semolina. 

semoule (se-mool')- Semolina; grout. 

shal'lot. A small kind of onion; a scallion. 

shan'dygaff. A beverage consisting of a mixture of 
hops and malt beer with ginger beer. 

sharp sauce. Same as Remoulade. 

sher'ry. Originally, wine of Xeres; hence, any of the 
strong, dry, whit wines of Andalusia and other regions 
in the south of Spain. They are usually tinted an 
amber color, and also adulterated with spirits and 
often with plaster of Paris. Formerly they were 
colored much darker than at present. See Amontil- 
lado. 

sher'ry cob'ler. A mixture of sherry, water, ice, and 
sugar, flavored with lemon or orange, or both. 

shirred eggs. Eggs broken into an earthen dish and 
baked over the fire. 

shrub. A liquor composed of acid fruit juice and spirit 
to preserve it, as orange juice and rum punch. 

Sibe'rian punch. An ice flavored with yellow char- 
treuse and vanilla. 

Sicil'ian sauce. Allemande with truffles, mushrooms, 
garlic, spices, and, especially aromatic herbs. 

siriabub. A soft curd made by mixing any wine or 
cider with milk; also, a dish of sweetened cream flavored 
with wine and beaten to a stiff froth. 

sil'ver duck. A Welsh rarebit served with boiled or 
steeped smoked herring on it. 

snipe. A shore bird with a long, nearly straight bill. 
It is esteemed for game. 

sorbet (sor-ba'). Sherbet. 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 55 

soubise sauce (soo-bez'). A puree of white onions or 
souchie. 

souchet (soo-sha') or souchie (soo-she')- A stew of 
fish in a soup-like savory broth. 

souffle (soo-fla'). A dish consisting of batter of starch 
or flour, eggs, milk or cream, and butter, beaten light and 
baked and serv^ed hot while light and spongy. Souffles 
may be variously flavored, as with ginger, vanilla, 
chocolate, etc. 

South'ern style. Baked with molasses poured over 
them; — said of sweet potatoes. 

soy. A Japanese, Chinese, or East Indian sauce made 
from a kind of bean. It is salty, aromatic, and in the 
East Indian variety, sirupy or thick. 

spaghetti (spa-get'te). Hollow tubes of dried Italian 
paste, in size between macaroni and vermicelli. 

Spanish cream. Gelatine pudding containing custard, 
gelatine, and beaten white of eggs, set in a mold. 

Span'ish puffs. ]\Ieringues. 

Span'ish sal'ad. Same as Gaspacho. 
• spitch'cock. To grill. 

spongada (spon-gii'da). An ice cream to which white 
of egg has been added so that it forms a heavy froth. 

spongada di Toledo (de to-la'do). A spongada of 
almonds and cream. 

sport'man's round. The biggest joint of a beeve. 

sprot'teu. Sprats which are canned in oil and sold as 
a less expensive variety of sardines. 

squab. A young pigeon. 

stand'ard broth. See Stock. 

stock. The broth used as the basis of soups, sauces, 
etc. The ordinary stock (which should contain the solu- 
ble parts of one pound of meat to each pint of stock, or 
thereabouts) is called common, grand, general, or stan- 
dard stock or broth. 

supreme sauce (soo-pram). Veloute flavored with 
mushrooms and consomme of fowls. 

talmouse (tal-mooz'). A dariole having cheese in the 
custard. 

tam'my, tam'is. A fine sieve or strainer of cloth. 

tanche (taNsh). Tench, a fish allied lo the carp. 

tanger ne (tan-jur-en'). A kind of dark-colored, highly 
flavored orange, with a thin, highly aromatic rind. 



56 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

tar'ragon. A plant of the same genus as the worm- 
wood, used for flavoring vinegar. It has a sharp essen- 
tial oil. 

tart. Any one of various cakes with filling in them. 

tar'tare sauce. Mayonnaise sauce with vinegar and 
chopped gi'een herbs, pickles, and capers. 

tarte. A tart. 

tendrons de veau (tiiN-droN' de vo). The gristles from 
the breast of veal. They are stewed in stock and served 
as an entree. 

terrine (ter-ren'). Formerly a kind of ragout made 
and served in a terrine (a kind of earthen dish) ; now, a 
dish of several varieties of meats braised together and 
served in a terrine or in a similar dish of metal. 

tete (tat). Head. 

thon (toN), The tunny, a kind of fish. 

timbale [French pron. taN-bal'). A drum-like case of 
macaroni or rice filled with some composition, as with 
forcemeat or ragoilt. 

toad in the hole. Cold meat baked in a batter of milk, 
eggs, and flour. * 

toddy. Whiskey punch. American toddy is cold rum 
punch in which fruits are steeped. In India, toddy is 
wine from the sap of the palm. 

Tokay'. A rich heavy wine, more or less sweet and 
very aromatic, and made, primarily, of tokay grapes in 
the neighborhood of Tokay in the northern part of Hun- 
gary. It is chiefly used as a liqueur. Sweet tokay, such 
as Imperial tokay, is very sweet and fermented but 
little if at all, and so contains little or no alcohol. 

topinambur (to-pe-nam-boor'). The Jerusalem arti- 
choke. 

top sirToin. A good cut of the beef next to the sirloin. 

tosse (tos-sa'). Fried while being tossed or shaken 
quickly so as to turn from side to side. 

tourte (toort). A flake dough case in which ragolits 
are served as entrees. 

trepang'. A large holothurian (a kind of echinoderm) 
dried and eaten, when well cooked, in soups, etc.; a sea 
cucumber. 

tri'fle. A second-course sweet dish composed of sponge 
cake soaked in wine or liqueur, macaroons, fruit jams, 
and whipped cream. 



BILL OF FARE TOCABVLARY 57 

truffes (triif). Truffles. 

truffle. A kind of edible mushroom that grows under- 
ground. TiTiffles have a form somewhat like that of a 
big, longish blackberry. There are nearly black varie- 
ties (chiefly from Perigord) and light- colored varieties, 
as the whitish ones from Burgundy, and those with a 
garlicy ordor from Piedmont. 

truite (trwet). Trout. 

tur'ban. An ornamental drum-shaped case for entries, 
forcemeat, fillets, etc. 

Turk'ish coffee. Cafe au Turc. 

Turk'ish pilaff . Same as Pilau. 

tutti-frutti (toot'te-froot'te). A confection consist- 
ing of preserved fruits of various kinds. 

valen'cia rice. Rice boiled till the grains are soft and 
then mixed with oil and tomatoes. 

veau (vo). Veal. 

veloute (ve-loo-ta'). A white sauce or stock made by 

boiling down ham, veal, beef, fowl, bouillon, etc., then 

adding soup stock, with seasoning vegetables, and again 

* boiling and straining. Some put in ham to give it more 

flavor. 

Vene'tian sauce. Allemande sauce flavored with tar- 
ragon. 

ver'mouth or ver'muth. A cordial of white wine 
flavored with absinthe and other aromatics, often con- 
taining cognac. 

Victo'ria bis'cuit. A kind of dariole. 

Vien'na dUmpTings. Same as Nockerln. 

vin (vaN). Wine. 

vinaigre (ve-na'gr'). Vinegar. Tinaigre a Vestragon (a 
las trii-goN') is vinegar flavored with tarragon. 

vinaigrette (ve-na-gref). A sauce made sour by 
acid wine or vinegar. 

vin ordinaire (vaN 6r-de-nar'). Ordinary table wine; 
claret. 

vint'age wine. A fine wine made from selected grapes 
of a good year, kept separate and sold as wine of that 
year. 

volaille (vo-lal'). Poultry. 

vol-au-vent (vo-lo-vaN'). A light puff"-paste case 
baked and then filled with a ragout, fricassee, or the 
like. 



68 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

was'sail bowl. Hot ale spiced and poured over roast 
apples; — an English Christmas-Eve beverage. 

waffle. A kind of soft, thin pancake cooked in in- 
dented (honeycomb) irons which meet against each other 
so as to hold the batter or dough inside. Waffles are 
usually richer in composition than ordinary pancakes. 

Welsh rare'bit or rab'bit. A dish consisting essentially 
of toasted bread on which is served toasted or melted 
cheese. The cheese is variously prepared, as with the 
admixture of ale, or other flavoring material. 

Welsh soup. Pig's- head soup. 

white sauce. Same as Veloute, or similar sauce. 

wiener schnitzel (ve'ner shnits'd). A cut of veal from 
the leg fried in batter, and seasoned with paprika, etc., 
after a style attributed to the Viennese. 

wine. The fermented juice of the grape; also, loosely, 
the fermented juice of other fruits; as pear wine, or 
perry. 

Wines are distinguished by their color, their hardness 
or softness on the palate, their flavor, and their being 
still or effervescing. When the fermentation and sugar 
in a wine have neutralized each other so that no sweet- 
ness is perceptible it is called a dry wine. Modern wines 
which belong to, or are used as types of, a particular 
kind of wines are port, sherry, Bordeaux, Burgundy, 
champagne, Maderia, Rhine, Moselle, Tokay, Sauterne, 
Marsala, Amontillado. See these above in the Vocabu- 
lary. 

Sekving of Wines. — Wines are best when served 
according to the following suggestions : 

White wines, such as Sauterne, Moselle, Rhine wine 
and sherry, should be served moderately cold. 

Champagne should never be allowed to lie in the ice 
box for any length of time, but instead should be chilled 
quickly and served at once, very cold. If allowed to lie 
in the ice box two or three days its flavor will be injured. 

Burgundy and all clarets should be served at a 
temperature of about 70 degrees, also all sweet wines, 
such as Port, Angelica, Maderia, Tokay, etc. 

Where wine has been bottled for one or two years, the 
bottles should be handled very carefully to avoid shak- 
ing or turning or in any way agitating the contents, 
especial care being taken in drawing the cork and 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 69 

decanting to keep the bottle in a horizontal position, 
for the reason that most wines after standing the above- 
mentioned length of time will deposit a little sediment. 
This same precaution also applies to white wines bottled 
for a similar length of time. 

In extremely hot weather if a '' long drink "is desired, 
iced water may be added to Burgundy, claret and white 
wines to advantage, but never put cracked ice into any 
wine or Champagne, as it destroys the delicate bouquet. 

Dry wines should be served from a decanter only when 
all of the wine contained in the decanter is to be used 
at once, as, where wine is decanted and left to stand for 
any length of time, it becomes flat and loses its flavor. 

Pronunciation of those Names of Wines, etc., 

which would not naturally be pronounced with approxi- 
mate correctness. 

Anheuser-Busch (iln'hoi-zur biish). 

Assmannshauser (as'mrtns-hou-zur). 

Aszu (6'soo). 

Barsac (bar-sak'). 

Beaujolais (bo-zho-la'). 

Beaune (bon). 

Beychevelle (bash-ver). 

Blanche (blaNsh). White. 

Bordeaux (bor-do'). 

Braunberger (broun'berK-iir). 

Buadi (boo'6-di). 

Chahlis (sha-ble'). 

Chamhertin (shaN-bar-taN'). 

Chateau (sha-to'). Wines made on private estates are 
called chateau wines. The names beginning with 
chateau will be found alphabetized in this list as if 
the word chateau were not used in the name; thus, 
for chateau Lafite, see Lafite, below. 

Chianti (ke-an'te). 

Glos Blanc de Vougeot (klo blaN de voo-zho'). 

Clos de Vougeot (klo de voo-zhC'). 

Cognac (ko-nyjlk'). 

Conti (kON-te'). 

Cordon Rouge (kor-doN' roozh). 

Corton (kor-toN'). 

Cos d'Estournel (ko des-toor-ner). 



60 BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 

Creme (krilm). Ihis is disregarded in alphabetizing, 
when it is the first name of a cordial or liqueur; 
thus for creme de menthe (kram de ment), see 
Menthe, below. 

Curasao ( kii - r a - so' ) . 

Cuseniers (kii-za-nya/). 

Deidesheimer (di'des-hi-mfir) . 

Deutz & GeVdermann (doits). 

Ducru Beaucailiou (dii-krii' bo-ka-lyoo'). 

Echau Kummel (ek'ou klim'mel). 

Garniers (gar-nya'). 

Geisenheimer (gl'zpn-hl-mfir) . 

Giscours (zhe-koor'). 

Grand iUarmer (griiN mar-nya'). 

Grand Vin (graN vaN). In names beginning with these 
words they are ignored in this table; thus for Lafite 
inGrand vin chateau Lafite, see Lafite, below. 

Graves (gr^v). 

Greves (grav). 

Grillet (gre-ya'). 

Gruaud Ijarose (grii-o' lii-roz'). 

Haut Sauterne (o so- tarn'). 

Hunjadi Janos (hiin'yo-di yo'nos). 

Irroy (e-rwa'). 

Johannisherger (yo-han'nis-berK-fir) . 

Kissingen ( kis'sing-en ) . 

Lagrange (la-graNzli'). 

La Tache Romanee (la tash ro-mji-na'). 

Latour (la-toor'). 

Laubenheimer (lou'ben-hi-mtir). 

Leoville Poyfcrre (lyo-vel' pwa-fa-ra'). 

Liehfraumilch (lep'frou-milK). 

Macon (ma-koN'). 

Maraschino ( ma-ra- ske'no) . 

Margaux (mar-go'), 

Medoc (ma-dok'). 

Moet & Chandon (mo-a' and shaN-d6N'). 

Montrachet (moN-tra-sha') . 

Montrachet, la Guiche (moN-tra-sha', la gesh). 

Mouton Rothschild (moo-toN' rot'shilt). 

Musigny (mii-se-nye'). 

Niersteiner (ner'sti-ntir). 

Noyau (nwa-yo'). 



BILL OF FARE VOCABULARY 61 

^uits (nwe). 

Ofner Auslesc (of'niir oiis'la-ze). 

Parfait Amour (par-fa' ta-moor'). 

Pekoe (pa-ko'). 

Perrier Jouet (pa-iya' zlioo-a'). 

Pommard (po-mar'). 

Pontet Canet (poN-ta' ka-na'). 

Pousse Cafe (poos ka-fa'). 

Richehourg (resh-boor). 

Rudesheimer (rii'des-hi-mur) . 

Rudesheimer Engerweg (rii'des-hi-mur eng'Hr-vaK). 

Ruinart (rwe-nar'). 

Saarhach (zar'baK). 

St. Emilion (saN ta-me-lyoN'). 

Sauterne (so- tarn'). 

Szegzardi (seg'z6r-di). 

Veuve Cliquot (vfiv kle-ko'). 

Vin Ordinaire {van or-de-nfir'). See main Vocabulary. 

Volnay (vol-ni'). 

Wurzhurger Hofbrau (voorts' boorK-tir hof'brou). 

Y quern (e-kaN'). 

wine, May. A mixed wine served about Maytime, 
because that is the season of the year when the woodruff 
leaves, with which it is flavored, are sufficiently aromatic. 
The preparation is one bottle of champagne, five bottles 
of moselle or rhine wine (preferably moselle), one- 
quarter bottle of claret, two ounces of sugar, and a good 
bunch of woodruff leaves. The leaves should be removed 
after they have been in the wine for an hour or so. 
Some add strawberries, pineapple, and orange, after 
removing the woodruff leaves. The mixture has a fine 
aromatic flavor. After the woodruff has blossomed its 
leaves lose their highly aromatic flavor. 

wood'cock. A kind of long-billed, gallinaceous game 
bird. They fly and feed at night. 

wood- cock of the sea. The mullet, a kind of sea fish. 

wurst ( Voorst). Sausage. 

yard of flan'nel. Ale flip. See Flip. 

York'shire buck. A Welsh rarebit served with two 
slices of bacon and a poached egg. 

York'shire pie. A meat pie baked in a raised crust. 

York'shire punch. A hot punch to which some calf's 
foot jelly has been added. 



62 



BILL OF FARE TOCABULART 



zwiebach (tsve'bak). A kind of biscuit or rusk first 
baked in a loaf and then sliced and toasted. 

zwetschenwasser (tsvet'shen-va-sur). A kind of 
cordial distilled from the juice of damson plums. 




POISONOUS PLANTS 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND 
EEMEDIES 



Most of the very many eases of poisoning by plants 
result from ignorance of the nature of our poisonous 
plants, or from a notion that they are not dangerously 
poisonous. Those who live or are visiting in the eountiy 
where children run at large in the fields and roads should 
explain to them the danger of handling certain plants 
and of eating certain plants, and if this were done most 
of the fatal cases of plant poisoning would be prevented. 

In all cases of internal poisoning, remedies should be 
applied at once, and plant poisoning should be suspected 
in cases of unexplained retching, unconsciousness, or 
convulsions. If there is any possibility of the trouble 
being occasioned by the fata^lly poisonous plants de- 
scribed below, not a moment should be lost in getting a 
physician. For cases of skin poisoning, generally, a 
weak alcoholic solution of sugar of lead is the best 
remedy, and affords great and immediate relief. It 
should not be used on broken surfaces. 

Poisoning from plants may result either from con« 
tact with the surface of the skin (internally or exter- 
nally), or from this combined with the effect produced by 
absorption of the poison into the blood through the 
stomach. The plants from which poisoning commonly 
result are the following: 

Ac'onite. Same as Monkshood. 

Bit'tersweet. A climbing shrubby plant with purple 
or blue flowers and an orange-colored center. The lower 
leaves are ovate or heart-shaped, the upper ones more or 
less spear-shaped. It is conspicuous for its bright red, 
oval berries, which are poisonous. It belongs to the 
same family as the white potato. It is mostly found 



66 POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 

in damp ground. It is entirely distinct from the culti- 
vated plant also called bittersweet. 




Bittersweet (Solanum dulcamara), a flowering spray ; 6 fruit. Both 

4 natural size. 



The antidotes are the same as for the deadly night- 
shade. 

Black cher'ry. The wild black cherry, a tree from 60 
to 80 feet high. The kernels of the seed, or the whole 
fruit, and the leaves when merely wilted, if eaten, usually 



POIISONOUS PLANTiS AND REMEDlEti 



G7 



cause death. The fresh leaves and old dry leaves are 
considered harmless. 

There is no effective remedy. Emetics and enemas 
may be used. Call a physician at once. 




Black Cherry {Frimiis {<eroii?ia), twig and fruit. J natural size. 



Ca'per spurge, Gar'den spurge, Mole'weed. A common 
garden plant with smooth leaves and stem, growing from 
two to three feet high. The flowers are greenish yellow 
and rather small. The fresh milky juice of the plant 
is very acrid, and the fruit is very purgative and poison- 
ous. The plant is poisonous to handle. 

For internal treatment use emetics, and give milk, 
white of egg with water, or flaxseed tea, to drink. Call 



68 POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 

a physician. For skin poisoning use weak alcoholic 
solution of sugar of lead. 




Caper Spurge {Euphorbia lathy ris). a plant, J natural size ; b seed cap- 
sule, natural size. 



Cow'bane. Same as Water hemlock. 
Deadly, or Black, night'shade. This is a plant with 
large and quite pointed leaves on downy stems. It bears 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 69 




Deadly Nighthshade {Solarium nigrum)., § natural size. 

drooping clusters of somewhat beet- shaped flowers and 
roundish juicy berries which turn from green to black, 
and are marked with a deep furrow. 

The antidotes are emetics, carthartics and stimulants, 
such as coffee and liquors. 



70 POLWNOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 

Fool's pars'ley {Mtlmsa Cynapium). This plant looks 
like parsley. It has dark green, feathery leaves, like 
common parsley, and white tlowers that grow in umbels, 
and have a delicate, lacy appearance. The plant grows 
about two feet high. It occurs chiefly in the North- 
eastern States. 

Use emetics and give stimulants. 

Fox'glove, or Digitalis [Digitalis purpurea). This is 
a commonly cultivated plant which has dull green, 
downy leaves and bell-shaped purple and crimson flowers 
Avith spots within. The flowers are arranged in a spike. 
It is not poisonous to most people to handle. 

In case of internal poisoning call a physician. 

Hem'lock. — Ground hemlock or Dwarf yew {Taxus 
Canadensis). This is an evergreen tree or shrub bearing 
small, red, juicy berries, or drupes, which are hollow on 
the end opposite the stem. The slender rigid leaves 
and black seeds are very poisonous. The tree resembles a 
small spruce tree, and usually grows, as an undershrub, 
under evergreens. 

Poison hemlocl: This is a shrub growing from three 
to six feet high, with numerous smooth hollow 
stems, spotted with large, purple, parsley-like leaves, 
and showy white flowers in umbels. It flowers in July 
and August. The plant .has a disagreeable odor; and 
the fresh leaves are very sickening in taste. The seed 
resembles an anise-seed; and the root somewhat re- 
sembles a parsnip. 

The best treatment is emetics, tannin (tea or oak 
bark), stimulants, warmth at extremities, and artificial 
respiration.' 

Water hemlocl-, or Spotted cowhane. This plant which 
grows in damp ground, has slender indented leaves, a 
smooth hollow stem, and small white flowers in umbels, 
the root is very poisonous, and the stems less so. 

Call a doctor if poisoning by this plant or the next 
mentioned plant is suspected. 

The Oregon water hemlock has a similar flower and leaf, 
and a peculiar hollow rootstock, which is the most 
poisonous part. 

Hen'bane (Hyoscijamus). This plant grows about two 
feet high, has large, soft, clammy, hairy, pale green 
leaves, with a disagreeable odor. The flowers are cup- 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 71 




Poison Hemlock (Conium maculatnm), § natural size. 



72 POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 

shaped, with a purple rim and streaks of a straw- 
colored or yellowish-brown center. 




Water Hemlock (Cicuta maculata). Plant and root J natural size ; seed 
and cross section enlarged x 5. 



The remedies to be used in case of poisoning are the 
same as for Jamestown weed. 

In'dian tobac'co [Lobelia inflata). This plant has a 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 73 




Oregon Water Hemlock {Cicuta vagans); a plant, | natural size ; ft, & 
rootstock and horizontal roots, ^ natural size ; c terminal leaflets, nat- 
ural size ; d flowering spray, | natural size. 



74 POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 

N. 




Jamestown "Weed (Datura stramonium), a flowering spray ; h fruit 
capsule. Both § natural size. 

straight stem; hairy, pointed, mottled leaves; and small, 
pale blue flowers, which spring from the junction of a 
leaf with the stem. 

In'dian tur'nip, or Jack-in-the-pul'pit {Arum). This 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 75 

plant grows a foot high; and bears scarlet berries. The 
root is turnip-shaped, it has an intense burning taste, 
and when taken into the mouth causes intense pain and 




Broad-Leaf Laurel {Kalmia laitfiUa). a flowering Bpray, i natural size. 
b section of flower , c fruit capsule ; both natural size. 

swelling of the tongue. If serious poisoning occurs get 
a wash from a physician. 

James'town, or Jim'son, weed; Thorn'apple; Datu'ra, 
or Stramo'nium. This plant grows to a height of four 
feet or more. Its skin is tough; the flowers are white 
or tinted and are vase-shaped; the green seed pod, when 



76 POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 

dried, becomes gray-browii, and is very rough and 
thorny; the seeds are soft when young, but become hard 
and black when old. It is very poisonous and dangerous. 




Narrow-Leaf Laurel {Kalmia angustifolia). \ natural size. 



Use emetics at once, then give strong tea, tannic acid, 
or infusion of oak bark, then emetics and then stimu- 
lants. Full respiration should be kept up artificially. 

Lau'rel. The hroad-leaf laurel, also called mountain 
laurel, sheep laurel, poison ivy, calico hush, etc., is usually 
from three to eight feet high, but sometimes thirty to 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 77 

forty feet high; has shiny dark green leaves, and nearly 
odorless flowers. It is deadly poison if eaten. Children 




Great La,\ire\ (Rhododendron maximum), a flowering branch; 6 fruit 
capsule. Both § natural size. 



mistake the young shoots for wintergreen; and thou- 
sands of cattle are poisoned by it. Call a physician in 



78 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 



ease of poisoning, using emetics, enemas, and stimulants 
pending his arrival. 

Other plants of the heath family are equally poisonous 
with the broad-leaf laurel; as the narrow-leaf laurel 




Monkshood {Acotiitum Columbianum) of Western United States. 
a flowering plant ; b seed capsule. Both | natural size. 



(also called lamhkiU dwarf laurel, etc.); and the Great 
laurel (also called rosebay, mountain laurel, rhododendron, 
etc.). 

Monks'hood, Ac'onite, or Wolfs'bane. A plant growing 
about four feet high with leaves deeply cleft into five 
parts, and with dark blue flowers. The separate flowers 



POISONOUS FLAX T IS AND REMEDIES 



79 



are arranged along a common stem in the form of a 
spike. 

Use the ordinary emetics, stimulants, and artificial 
respiration until the physician can be called. 




Fly Amanita {Amanita muscaria). Mature plant, and top view showing 
corky patches, \ natural size. 



Mush'quash root. Same as TTaier hemlock, under 
Hemlock. 

Mush'rooms. Only a person skilled and acquainted in 
distinguishing between the poisonous mushrooms (toad- 
stools) and the edible ones can safely pick them. No 
one should eat a mushroom not selected by such a 
person; children should never put them in their mouths 



80 POISONOU,"^ PLANTS AND REMEDIES 

in the fields. Two of the most poisonous species are the 
fly anianita and the death cup. 

In case of poisoning, use mustard or other emetics, 
an enema of warm water and turpentine. Give recently 
burned powdered charcoal internally. Call a physician 
at once. 




Death Cup (Amattita phalloides), J natural size. 



Nightshade. See Deadly Nightshade, above. 

Olean'der. This beautiful evergreen shrub, which is 
everywhere cultivated for ornament, is harmless to the 
touch, as ordinarily handled; but every part of the plant 
is dangerously poisonous if taken internally. Death has 
resulted from the use of its wood as skewers in roast 
meat. Children should not put the leaves, wood, or 
flowers into their mouths. The plant is dangerous to 
have within the reach of infants. 

Poi'son, or Three-leaved, ivy, or poison oak. A climb- 
ing shrub (also called mercury, black mercury, etc.) with 
leaves arranged in clusters of three, and dull white 
berries, or drupes. This plant is poisonous to the touch 
to most people, and to some the fumes from the growing 
plant are poisonous. This plant differs from the Yir- 
ginia creeper, or five-leaved ivy, in having its leaves ar- 



POhSONOU^S PLANTti AND REMEDIED 81 

ranged in clusters of three instead of five, and by the 
whitish color of its berries, those of the Virginia creeper 
being dark blue. It grows nearly everywhere, especially 
on the borders of woods, fields, roadsides, etc. 

For treatment apply a saturated solution of sugar of 




Poison Ivy (Rhus toxicodendron)-, a leaves; b fruit. Both abon 
J natural size. 



lead (lead acetate) in 50 per cent, alcohol to the poisoned 
parts; or, if this cannot be had apply a solution in water 
of salt or baking soda. 

Poi'son oak; or Poi'son i'vy. This is a species of Rhus 
differing from the poison ivy Rhus toxicodendron chiefly 
in the character of its leaflets. It is quite generally 
spread along the Pacific coast. 



82 POISONOUS PLANTS AND REMEDIES 

For remedies use the same as for poison ivy above. 
Poi'son su'mac. This plant grows in swamps and 
damp woods, from six to fifteen feet high, with wide- 




Poison Oak {Rhus diversiloba), leaves, flowers, and fruit. 
§ natural size. 

spreading branches. The leaves, which turn bright red 
in the autumn, are about three inches long and one and 
a half inches wide, with long, slender red stems; the 



POII^ONOUIS FLANTi:^ AND REMEDlEt^ 83 

flowers are whitish with the fruit about the size of a pea. 

The whole plant has a very disagreeable odor, and is 

more poisonous to the touch than poison ivy, or mercury. 

The other species, Rhus glabra, v.hich has more greenish 




Poison Sumac (Rhus vernix or venenatM), showing leaves and fruit. 
J natural size. 

flowers and very dark red or purplish hairy berries, is 
not poisonous at all. 

Poke'root; In'dian poke; False Hel'lebore; or White 
Hel'lebore. This plant grows from three to six feet 
high; it has large, oval, pointed leaves of a coarse tex- 



84 



POIi^ONOUS PLANTiS AND REMEDIES 




Pokeroot (Veretrum viride). § natural size. 

ture, and numerous small, green flowers, growing in a 
panniele at the top of the stem. It is dangerously 
poisonous. 

For treatment use emetics at once, and then give 
stimulants. Keep the patient lying flat on his back. 



POh'^OXOUS PLANTS AXD REMEDIES 83 

The name polcroot is also given to the root of the 
pokeweed. See the next Title. 

Poke'weed. A plant of the genus Phytolacca; especially 
Phytolacca decandra, which is a strong-growing, branching- 
herb, racemes (clusters like those of the currant) of 
white flowers which are followed by deep-purple, juicy 
berries about the size of small currants. The young 
shoots, are cooked and eaten, but the roots and berries 
are emetic and poisonous. This plant is entirely dis- 
tinct from the preceding. 

For treatment give strong tea, infusion of oak bark 
or tannin, then emetics, and stimulants. Use artificial 
respiration to keep up respiration. 

Su'mac. See Poison sumac. 

Toad'stool. See Mush'room. 

Wild pars'nip (Pastinata sativa). This a small plant, 
sometimes three feet in height, with dark green leaves, 
downy on the underside, made up of small leaflets ar- 
ranged on a grooved stem. It has yellow flowers in 
small cluster, and the root is like that of the cultivated 
variety in appearance, but has a harsh bitter taste. It 
is not ordinarily dangerously poisonous. 

Wolfs'bane. See Monkshood. 



«>H3' 




EMERGENCY 

DIRECTIONS 



WHAT TO DO m CASE OF 
ACCIDENTS 



The knowledge of a few simple facts which every one 
ought to know, or have a ready means of knowing, often 
enables such help to be given in case of accident as to 
prevent any serious consequences from an injury which 
would otherwise be dangerous or perhaps fatal. 

The first thing to be understood is that the body con- 
sists of a framework of bone supporting a very complex 



KN6EJ0 




HUZECAP 



^^l>i BOT^I^ 



system of muscles, by which the bones are moved like 
levers upon their joints. Thus, at the knee there is a 
joint where the ends of the two bones play upon each 
other, this being made possible by the smooth ends of 
the bones and the lubricated sheath in which they rest. 
In front, a small bone, called the knee cap, protects 
the ends of the leg bones from the injuries which their 
position exposes them to. The bones and attached 



90 WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 

muscles at this joint are indicated in the illustration. 
The arm joint at the shoulder is a different kind of 
joint. In order to adapt it for motion in any direction, 
instead of merely in two directions as with the knee 
joint, the joint is a " ball-and-socket joint," as it is 
called. This joint is especially liable to get dislocated, 
and the accompanying illustration will help to make the 
relation of the parts clear, so that the directions given 
under Dislocations, below, may be intelligently fol- 
lowed. 

The skull is formed of an assemblage of bones which 
at birth are incompletely joined, but which finally be- 
come more or less completely united along certain ragged 



^jrrcoOARa^^^ 




^n bbue 



lines called sutures (indicated by s, s, s, in the illustra- 
tion below). The bones are thickest where they are 
ordinarily most likely to receive severe blows, as at the 
back and front of the head. On top the bone is very 
thin, and also in the temples at the sides. The teeth 
fit into sockets in the jaw bones, and the eyes rest in 
cavities about which the bones project for the protection 
of the eyeballs. The nose is partly bone and partly 
cartilage, the cartilage being here indicated by the 
dotted line c. 

Through the muscles there are various channels or 
tubes through w^hich the blood is forced, by the action 
of the heart, to keep the system nourished. The chan- 
nels in which the blood flows away from the heart are 
called " arteries," and the blood contained in them is of 
a bright red color. These channels have firm walls, and 



WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 91 

are larger than those called " veins," through which the 
blood slowly oozes back again to the heart and lungs. 
The circulation of the blood is assisted by helping this 
flow of the blood through the veins, which, of course, is 
always from the extremities toward the heart; so that 




when rubbing is resorted to for that purpose, it should 
always be in that direction. 

When the veins are cut, the blood that oozes out is of 
a darker hue than tlie arterial blood, and it comes less 
rapidly and the flow will ordinarily stop itself without 




Main Arter}' of Leg. Black Portions are in Front, near Surface. Dotted 
Part is Behind the Knee. 



assistance, partly because the channels are minute and 
their walls collapsible. When an atery is cut, if it be 
one of any size, the person cut will bleed to death if 
the flow of the blood is not artificially checked. 

Some of the arteries, as the jugular artery in the neck, 



92 WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 

are so large that if they are cut, there is ordinarily no 
hope of saving the life. In any such case, however, act 




Arm, show ing course of Artery from Shoulder down. 

at once; and if no other better thing is at hand that 
can be used instantly, thrust the finger forcibly into 
the hole from which the blood spurts. 



v'^vxA'-s^^^v-:. 




Inside of Wrist, with the Arteries Indicated by Heavy Black lines. 



The arteries can be felt in many parts of the body 
by the pulsation of the heart, which can be detected by 
more or less gently resting the fingers upon the surface. 



WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 93 




Compression of Brachial Artery by Thumb. 



There is a large artery upon the front of the leg as in- 
dicated in the illustration, another in the inside front 




Method of 'Compression of Artery at Base of Neck. 



part of the arm, which are more exposed to injury than 
others by reason of their positions. Bleeding from these 
arteries and from those of the wrist (indicated by the 



94 WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 

heavy black lines in the illustrations) may be cheeked 
by strong pressure on the artery on the side toward the 
heart from the cut. 

Compression of the arteries by the hand is often 
necessary to be made temporarily, and the method of 
doing this is here indicated for the artery of the arm, 
the artery at the base of the neck, and for the artery in 
the shoulder, where the pressure should be behind the 
collar bone, about at its middle. The bandaging of a 




Method of Compression of Artery in Shoulder. 

part requires some pains, and care should be taken never 
to bandage so tightly as to cause pain, nor to bandage 
more tightly above than below. Ordinarily put a band- 
age on by making circular overlapping turns. Where 
the bandage comes full on one edge when this is done, 
neatly turn the bandage inside out at some place with 
each turn so that it comes right. About the knee, or 
other joint, pass the cloth in a figure 8 form. A band- 
age does the most good when it feels the most com- 
fortable, and sometimes an uncomfortable bandage is 
worse than none. 

A square yard of cloth cut diagonally into two pieces 
will make two bandages which can be adapted for tying 



WHAT TO DO IN CAISE OF ACCIDENTi^ 95 

up almost any part of the body by using two or all 
three of the corners to tie. The illustration below shows 
a good way of using this bandage upon the head, the 
bandage being folded in its longest direction and the 
ends tied on the side away from view. 




One Method of Bandaging Head. 



The knot used in tying a bandage should be a square 
or reef knot, as in the illustration here given, in which 
successive portions of the same end of the bandage are 
indicated by the letters A B and the loop of the other 




end by C. Unless care is taken, the ends will be passed 
through so as to make a knot which will slip when any 
pull is exerted upon the ends. The next illustration 
shows the arrangement in this knot, called a " granny 



96 WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 

knot," the end parts of one end being marked A B, and 
the loop of the other, C. 

If forcible constriction or local pressure is desired, it 
may be obtained by making a tourniquet, or " Spanish 
windlass "; that is, making a somewhat loose bandage. 




KWOT. 



and passing a stick through it and twisting till it is as 
tight as desired. This is often of great service in check- 
ing hemorrhage from cuts of the arteries. If still more 
local pressure, as upon an artery at some point, is 
desired, a pad may be placed over the spot and under the 
bandage, or when the spot is on the inside of a limb 
the pad may be made large and then the limb bent 




Four-handed Seat. 



together and bound so as to cause the desired pressure. 

If it is desired to carry a person who is injured but 
able to assist himself by holding on with his arms, a 
four-handed seat may be made, as indicated in the illus- 
tration above. 

In every case of injury resulting in a scratch, cut, or 
abrasion of the skin, the wound should be immediately 



WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 97 

cleansed, and treated with some antiseptic, such as 
boracic acid, so as to destroy any germs that may be 
present. By doing this, the soreness will be taken out 
and inflammation prevented. 

In any case of accident keep cool, and do all you can 
to keep others cool. Stop all screaming and wailing; 
prevent the gathering of a crowd; fix the sufferer in a 
comfortable position, quiet him down, and then try to 
find out what the trouble is. 

Bites. — Bites of dogs, cats, rats, etc., are best treated 
by sucking them or squeezing them. Cauterizing the 
wounds with lunar caustic or nitrate of silver is injuri- 
ous. Do not alarm the patient, hj^drophobia seldom 
results except when the patient is terrified. 

Bleeding. — See Hemorrhage. 

Bleeding of the Nose. — Find the artery, on both sides, 
of the face where it crosses the jaw, some two or three 
inches above the point of the chin; press it closely 
against the bone with the thumb and forefinger; observe 
which nostril bleeds most freely, and press harder on 
that side. This gives speedy relief and is far more 
agreeable than rolls of paper pressed above the front 
teeth, or cold keys and cold water applied to the back 
of the neck. 

Burns. — If the person is on fire wrap something 
around him, but not cotton or linen. Use force to do 
this if necessary. In cases of severe burns do not pull 
off the clothing, but cut away as much as possible with- 
out disturbing the blisters. Then use a dressing of 
pure sweet oil or any oily substance free from salt, 
applying it on strips of soft linen, and disturb as little 
as possible. Moderate stimulants may be given or 
laudanum (thirty drops for an adult, fifteen for chil- 
dren). The carron oil which is used in hospitals con- 
sists of equal parts of linseed oil and lime water. In 
cases of slight scalds or burns, use a cloth soaked in 
a solution of baking soda. This is usually the most 
effective in allaying pain. Other useful lotions in such 
cases are sweet oil, white of an egg, salt water, damp 
earth, white- lead paint, carbolized vaseline, or any- 
thing that will prevent friction and exclude the air. 
One of the very best remedies is cool water, in which 



98 WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 

the burned part can be immersed and left for a long 
time. Burns with acids should be freely washed with 
water and then treated like other burns. Burns with 
alkalies should be treated by first applying vinegar, to 
neutralize the alkali, and then oil. 

Choking. — If the foreign body cannot be reached by 
the finger, use some instiiiment, such as a blunt pair of 
scissors, or a hairpin straightened out and bent into a 
loop at the end, or two spoon handles used like tongs. 
When the obstruction is in the throat, blowing into the 
ear will sometimes produce a reaction strong enough 
to expel the foreign substance. In all cases of choking 
keep the patient as quiet as possible. If the obstruc- 
tion be small and smooth, such as a button or coin, it 
may be expelled by vomiting, if this can be produced. 
If the foreign body is in the windpipe, it must be 
coughed out, or it will require a surgeon to extract it. 
Coughing may be assisted by a moderate blow on the 
back with the flat of the hand, or a quick hard squeeze 
of the throat. In any case, unless breathing is seri- 
ously interfered with, the best plan is to keep the 
patient quiet until medical aid can be had. If small 
objects are' swallowed, do not give a purgative, but have 
the patient eat heartily of soft food, such as corn meal 
mush or pancakes, so that the foreign substance will 
be carried off without injuring the tissues. 

Concussion of the Brain, — Do not give a stimulant. 
Lay the patient flat on his back, loosening the clothing 
about the neck and w^aist. Give him plenty of fresh 
air, and apply heat to the body and limbs if he becomes 
cold and clammy. 

Convulsions. — These are generally preceded by rest- 
lessness and frefulness, generally due to imtation of 
the digestive apparatus or teething. Apply cold to the 
head and heat to the body. Inject hot soapsuds, give 
an emetic, and then a dose of castor oil. 

Dislocations, — In dislocations of the jaw seize the 
jaw between the thumbs and fingers, with the thumbs 
on the teeth and the fingers below the jaw, and press 
firmly downward and then backward. Keep the thumbs 
well without, and remove them quickly or they will be 
caught between the teeth when the jaw slips back. 



WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 99 

When the jaw is open just a little and cannot be opened 
or closed, pry the jaw open a little with a strong spoon 
handle or dull knife blade and the jaw will slip back 
into place. In dislocations of the shoulder lay the 
patient down; then sit down beside him, place the bare 
heel in the armpit of the dislocated arm, pull the arm 
and swing it over toward the sound side. If the opera- 
tion is successful the bone will go back with a snap, 
and the arm should then be bound to the side with the 
forearm across the chest, so that the hand rests on the 
opposite shoulder. 

Drowning. — First take the body from the ^^1ater. 
There is no law which forbids the removing of a body 
for restoration. If the natural breathing has stopped, 
free the body from any clothing that binds the neck, 
chest, and waist. 

Turn the body face downward with the head lower 
than the body. Thrust the finger into the mouth and 
carry it gently around so as to bring up any foreign 
substance in the mouth. To restore the natural breath- 
ing, place the body face upwards with something under 
the shoulders to raise them a few inches (a bundle of 
clothes, a stick of wood, or anything). Lift the tongue 
well out of the mouth and hold there, but do it gently. 
While this is being done, press strongly forward on 
the jaws just in front of the lobes of the ear. Let 
some one then kneel at the head, seize the arms near 
(forward of) the elbows; draw the arms out hori- 
zontally from the body and swing them around until 
they meet above the head; then pull well upon them for 
a few seconds. (This process fills the lungs with air.) 
Then swing the amis back to their former position, 
doubling the elbow up, and press strongly against the 
ribs so as to expel the air from the lungs. This should 
be done quickly, but do not let the pressure be so great 
as to break the ribs. Repeat this process so as to 
make 16 or 18 respirations in a minute, and keep it 
up for a long time. 

It is not a sign of death that the w^rist pulse cannot 
de detected; life is often present and resuscitation pos- 
sible when only the most practised ear can detect the 
heart beat and when the limbs are cold and all outward 

L.ofC. 



100 WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS . 

signs of life have departed. Artificial respiration may be 
necessary for an hour or even much longer, and after 
natural breathing has begun. 

Keep the body warm in some way. First remove the 
wet clothing; nothing should be allowed to interfere 
with this. For warmth, boards that have lain in the 
sunshine or hot sand may be used. Gentle rubbing of 
the limbs toward the heart will aid the blood in its 
circulation, and, however hopeless the case may seem, 
it should not be interrupted. 

Give a stimulant as soon as it can be swallowed. A 
teaspoonful of whiskey or brandy and a tablespoonful 
of hot water may be given every few minutes till the 
danger is over. When natural respiration begins, smel- 
ling salts may be held near the nose and the skin 
slapped or hot water dashed upon the chest. 

It is supremely important not to remove the body 
from one place to another during this process, and only 
the most urgent reason, such as cold, justifies this being 
done. 

If natural breathing has not stopped, carry out all 
these instructions except that of artificial respiration, 
and have recourse to that if there i« any evidence at 
all that the natural breathing is failing. It is well if 
the body can be laid so that the head is lower than feet, 
and the head may be allowed to hang down over the 
edge of a table, if one is used. In any event, do not 
give vp; sometimes it is hours before any visible signs 
of life reward the efforts to revive the patient. 

Ear, Foreign Substance in the. — ^Vlien a foreign sub- 
stance gets into the ear there is generally no danger in 
letting it remain till a physician can be called. Any- 
thing but the most gentle effort to remove it is likely 
to do more injury than the substance itself. Don't for- 
get that the outer passage of the ear is only about an 
inch deep, and that it is very delicate. When insects 
get into the ear, oil or glycerine or salt and water 
should be freely poured into the ear. 

In any case syringing out the ear may be useful. 
Pull the ear gently upward and backward; place the 
point of the syringe in the upper part of the external 
opening, and inject warm water. The water can then 



WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 101 

get back of the object, so as to carry it out below the 
syringe. 

Epileptic Fits. — Put something soft in the mouth to 
prevent biting of the tongue, care being taken to pre- 
vent the finger from being bitten. Quiet is the best 
restorative. 

Eye, Foreign Substance in the. — The simplest method 
of removing substances from the eye is to take the 
upper lid of the eye by the lash, pull it away from the 
eyeball and down over the lower lid, and then let go 
so that the inside of the upper lid draws over the lower 
lid. A loop of horsehair or human hair may be passed 
under the lid and swept from the outer side toward the 
nose and down. It is easy to turn the lower lid inside 
out, .but not the upper one. A good method of turning 
the upper lid inside out is to lay a slender pencil or 
knitting needle across the lid, and then pull the edge 
of the lid up over it. The disagreeable sensation caused 
by a foreign body in the eye will remain sometimes 
after the body has been removed from the eye; but care 
should be taken to make sure that the substance has 
been removed. If the sensation persists, the only safe 
way is to call a physician. Irritation may be removed 
by pouring a thin mucilage of clean gum arable and 
water into the eye. A little laudanum may be poured 
into a heated cup, evaporated to a thin syrup (to remove 
the alcohol, which irritates the eye), and thinned with 
water. This may be poured into the eye. Use a loose 
bandage to keep the light from the eye. A drop of 
olive oil or castor oil is often soothing in different cases. 
When li77i€ gets into the eye, deluge it at once with 
water and then put a teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon 
juice in a teacupful of. water, and pour this into the 
eye. 

Fainting. — In cases of fainting, the only treatment 
required is that the patient should be kept lying down 
with the head as low as the body, heavy wraps or tight 
clothing removed, and sprinkling of water on the face 
or the holding of smelling salts or spirits of camphor 
to the nose. Care must be taken not to use salts which 
are too strong. Nothing should be allowed to prevent 
keeping the person fiat on his back. If the case is 



103 WHAT TO DO TN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 

unusually slow in recovering, heat may be applied to the 
pit of the stomach. 

Fracture. — In cases of fracture keep the parts as 
natural as possible until a surgeon can be called. For 
temporary treatment; — in case of fracture of the upper 
arm, draw the elbow down against the side of the chest, 
placing a layer of muslin or linen between the arm and 
the chest. Bind the whole upper arm gently but 
firmly to the body, and place the forearm in a sling 
so that the hand is slightly higher than the elbow. In 
fracture of the forearm place it at a right angle to the 
elbow across the front of the body, in as nearly a 
natural position as may be, with the thumb of the 
hand up. The broad, well-padded splints should be 
applied in front and back, reaching from elbow to 
finger tips. Between these the arm should be bound 
snugly, but not too tight, and the arm then carried in 
a sling so that the hand is slightly higher than the 
elbow. 

Frostbite. — The proper treatment is to gradually 
raise the temperature of all the frozen parts to the nat- 
ural temperature of the body, and keep it there. 
Warmth is what is needed, and friction or moderately 
hot water is better than ice-water or snow. When the 
body is frozen, immersion in a warm bath is the best 
treatmtent, or surrounding the patient with heated 
blankets. 

Gun-shot wounds. — Note the position of the body and 
the course of the bullet, and then apply to the wound 
cold wet cloths upon which laudanum has been poured, 
to prevent inflammation. In cases of depression with 
cold (shock) give a stimulant, and apply heat to the 
body. If the part is much shattered, the local treat- 
ment should be the same, except that cold applications 
should not be used if there is great depression. Leave 
the rest to the surgeon. 

Hemorrhage. — Hemorrhage always follows every cut. 
That following the ordinary cut is from the capillary 
vessels and so not dangerous, and it usually stops itself. 
The color of this blood is dark red. Where hemorrhage 
from the capillaries does not stop of itself the part may 
be elevated and treated with an application of cold or 



WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 103 

vinegar if necessary. If the hemorrhage is from a large 
raw surface, dip a towel in water as hot as the hand 
can possibly bear it, squeeze it, and then press firmly 
against the bleeding surface. When repeated once or 
twice this treatment seldom fails to check the hemor- 
rhage. Hemorrhage from the veins seldom requires any 
treatment, but when severe, an application of cold and 
firm pressure continued below the wound may be used. 
The blood in the veins flows toward the heart and the 
ligature above the wound increases the trouble. Hem- 
on-hage from the jugular vein on the side of the neck 
should be treated with a pad and pressure. Pressure is 
best made by the fingers, one above and one below the 
wound. 

In hemorrhage of the arteries the blood is bright red 
and spurts out in jets. In case of hemoiThage from a 
large artery, such as those in the root of the neck or 
in 'the armpit or the inside of the thigh in the groin, 
the only suggestion is to thrust the finger or some other 
foiTii of plug into the wound and attempt to stop the 
bleeding by firm pressure. These cases are usually 
quickly fatal. In case of wounds of the smaller 
arteries, pressure of the main artery may be useful, as 
of the artery at the base of the neck, near the collar 
bone just outside of the windpipe, pressing the artery 
(carotid) back against the spinal column. If the artery 
is not struck at first shift along sideways. 

For cuts of the arteries in the fingers press on the 
sides of the finger, in the thumb on the front, in the 
hand, raise it above the head and press where it bleeds, 
or pack the wound with lint or cotton and bind it 
firmly. For wounds in the forearm seize the upper arm 
and squeeze as hard as possible on the artery there; 
then, while so doing have a piece of cloth, as a hand- 
kerchief, tied into a large knot in the middle; place the 
knot inside the arm above the elbow, tie the handker- 
chief tight around the arm, and bring the hand up 
toward the shoulder so that the knot is pressed into 
the hollow of the elbow. This should obstruct the 
artery through which the blood comes. 

In any case of hemorrhage do not remove clots of 
blood, as they are nature's plugs to the bleeding vessels. 



104 WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 

Sometimes fainting and bloodclots will stop, or greatly 
assist in stopping, hemorrhage. Do not be frightened 
because the wounded person faints unless from great 
exhaustion. If other means are not successful at once 
use the tourniquet or " Spanish windlass." Do not be 
afraid of pressing too hard. It may be a choice of hurt- 
ing or allowing to bleed to death. 

Hysterics. — The only treatment necessary is calmness 
and quiet on the part of the bystanders. Dashing water 
in the face is not a good plan. When drugs are needed, 
valerian may be used, a teaspoonful to a dose, or an 
emetic may be used. 

Insect Stings. — Stings of insects are rarely dangerous 
to life. For all cases of stings of tarantulas, wasps, 
centipedes, spiders, etc., the treatment is the applica- 
tion of cold, wet substances, preceded by the application 
of hartshorn or wet salt to the wound. These often 
give great relief. Wet earth is also very good to use. 
In all cases the sting should be removed if possible. 

Nose, Foreign body in the. — If a foreign body gets 
into the nose and cannot be removed by blowing the 
nose, sneezing, or the irritation given by a full breath, 
closing the mouth, and a smart blow on the back, leave 
it alone till a physician can be obtained. 

Snake bites. — In eases of bites of venomous serpents, 
cauterize instantly and cut away the flesh immediately 
surrounding the sting, and encircle the wound with a 
tight ligature. Suck the wound hard. For cauterizing, 
hartshorn is useful, and a red-hot iron knitting needle 
may be thrust into it. The serious results from snake 
bites are most often produced by the fear caused by 
them, and whiskey given in doses large enough to pro- 
duce drunkenness will remove this source of danger. 

Sprains. — Keep the part quiet until a physician can 
be called. Moist heat, such as a towel soaked in hot 
water, may be used in the meantime. 

Strangulation. — In cases of strangulation remove the 
obstruction to the breathing; and then begin artificial 
respiration if necessary. 

Suffocation. — Remove the patient to fresh air and em- 
ploy artificial respiration. 

Sunburns, and Sunstroke, or Heatstroke. — Sunburns 
are alleviated by the application of " baking soda," 



WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 105 

which may be mixed with vaseline, eosmoline, or lard, 
in which there is no salt. 

Sunstroke is usually due rather to excessive heat than 
to the direct rays of the sun; it is usually preceded by 
a pain in the head and a sense of oppression. Remove 
the clothing as soon as possible, keep the patient in a 
cool and airy place, apply cold water to the head, chest, 
and armpits. Do not dash cold water over the body; 
but the patient may be placed in a cold bath or wrapped 
in sheets kept wet and cold. When consciousness re- 
turns, the cold application should be stopped; but it 
should be renewed if the surface of the skin becomes 
very hot, or consciousness should be lost. In cases of 
heat exhaustion the skin is moist instead of hot or dry 
as in sunstroke. The best treatment is rest and fresh 
air. Small doses of spirits much diluted may be given. 

Swimming. — Every one should know how to swim. 
When learning, remember that the only object you 
should have in mind is to push all the water back and 
down from you that you can, for doing that is what 
keeps you afloat and drives you ahead. 

Lie on the floor face down, draw up your legs after 
the manner of a frog, put your hands straight out 
above your head and then straighten out your legs and 
at the same time swing your hands down to your sides, 
keeping the fingers together, so that the water (which 
is supposed to be on the floor) will be pushed toward 
your feet. When you straighten out your legs, have 
the feet at right angles, as when ordinarily standing; 
when you draw up your legs, point the toes down, 
as if you were standing on your toes like a ballet 
dancer; and then, in straightening out the legs, push 
down all the water that you can. This is all there is to 
do to swim; and, if you do this in the water, you will 
swim. 

You can learn to swim in two days or perhaps one, 
if you will follow these directions carefully. 

Wounds. — Wounds are of two kinds. Contused 
wounds are those accompanied with bruising of the 
tissues and incised v:oiinds are clean cuts. In all cases 
of wounds, washing with clean water is advisable. If 
the part be cut entirely off it may be replaced and 
the surgeon can sometimes succeed in saving it. To 



106 WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 

wash delicate parts with water dip a sponge or the like 
in water and squeeze it, holding the hand with the 
thumb up so that a single stream of water will flow 
upon the part. Very small punctured wounds should 
be squeezed well, and held in water or vigorously sucked 
until there is no danger of poisonous matter being left 
in the wound. Nail wounds are seldom dangerous if 
kept open for a few days and well washed. 
See Gun-shot Wounds, and Hemorrhage. 



ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS. 

First. — Send for a physician. 

Second. — Induce vomiting, by tickling throat with 
feather or finger; drink hot water or strong mustard and 
water. Swallow sweet oil or whites of eggs. This treat- 
ment is generally suitable for any case. 

Acids are antidotes for alkalis; and alkalis are anti- 
dotes for acids. 

Special Poisons and Antidotes. 

Acids. — Muriatic, Oxalic, Acetic, Sulphuric (Oil of 
Vitriol), Nitric (Aqua Fortis). Antidotes: Soapsuds, 
magnesia, lime-water. 

Prussic Acid. — Antidote: Ammonia in water. Dash 
water in face. 

Carbolic Acid. — Antidotes: Flour and water, mucil- 
aginous drinks. 

Alkalies. — Potash, Lye, Hartshorn, Ammonia. Anti- 
dotes: Vinegar or lemon juice in water. 

Arsenic. — Rat poison, Paris Green. Antidotes: Milk, 
raw eggs, sweet oil, lime-water, flour and water. 

Bug Poison. — Lead, Saltpetre, Corrosive Sublimate, 
Sugar of Lead, Blue Vitriol. Antidotes: Whites of eggs, 
or milk in large doses. 

Chloroform. — Chloral, Ether. Antidotes: Dash cold 
w^ater on head and chest. Artificial respiration. 

Carbonate of Soda. — Copperas, Cobalt. Antidotes: 
Soapsuds and mucilaginous drinks. 

Iodine. — Antimony, Tartar Emetic. Antidotes: Starch 
and water, astringent infusions, strong tea. 



WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS 107 

Mercury and its salts. Antidotes: Whites of eggs, milk, 
mucilages. 

Opium. — Morphine, Laudanum, Paregoric, Soothing 
Powders or Syrups. Antidotes: Strong cotiee; hot batli. 
Keep awake and moving at any cost. 

Strychnine.— Tincture of Nux Vomica. Antidotes: 
Mustard and water. Sulphate of zinc. Absolute quiet. 
Plug the ears. 




PRECIOUS AND 

NATAJL STONES 



PRECIOUS AND OTHER STONES 
USED IN JEWELRY 



The precious stones are those which, because of their 
beauty, harduess and rarity, are prized for use in orna- 
mentation, especially in jewelry. The diamond, ruby, 
sapphire, and emerald are the only stones which are, 
strictly speaking, entitled to be called " precious " in 
this sense; but the opal, on account of its beauty, is 
often classed with the precious stones; as is also the 




Top and Side View of Brilliant-cut Diamond, with Outline of Original 
Stone, i Table; a Bizet; b Collet; c Girdle; d Pavilion. 

pearl, which is really not a stone, but a secretion of a 
shell fish. 

The common forms in which the precious stones are 
cut are the brilliant, rose, and briolette, or double rose. 

The hriUiant is the form used whenever the size and 
shape of the stone will permit without too great loss of 
the substance of the stone. 



112 PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 

The rose form is flat below, and is used when the 
shape of the stone is such that the waste would be too 
great if it were cut in brilliant form. When the number 
of facets is 24, as is usually the case, it is a Dutch rose; 
when 36, a rose recoupee. The Brabant rose has 24 facets, 
but the top is flatter than in the Dutch rose. Rose 
diamonds are usually cut from the large pieces cleaved 
off in cutting brilliants. 

The hriolette form is a double rose form, with facets 
above and below. 

Besides the strictly precious stones, there are many 
others of more or less beauty which are used in rings, 
brooches, and other jewelry, and for seals, etc. 




Top and Side View of Briolette, or Double Rose, with 24 Facets above 

and below. 

Some of these show to the best advantage when cut 
en cahochon (aN ka-bo-shoN), as it is called; that is, 
with a smooth rounded 'surface on top, and a flat, 
rounded, or concave surface below; as is often done 
with cat's- eyes, carbuncles, opals, etc. 

The values of stones depend upon so many circum- 
stances that it is impossible to give exact figures for 
them. When a particular stone is in vogue, as the 
opal is now, for instance, its price rises because of the 
increased demand; and so the opal is worth to-day up- 
wards of seventy-five per cent, more than it was some 
few years ago. Such a rise in price may be due to other 
causes, and so the present prosperity and the South- 
African war combined raised the price of diamonds. 

The true precious stones are sold by carat weight (a 
carat being equal to three and one- fifth grains troy, 
and being itself divided into four grains, often called 
carat grains), and the pearl by carat grains. Prac- 
tically all the precious stones are easy to obtain in very 



PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 113 

small size, and the price per carat of these small ones 
is much less than for the larger, perfect stones, or 
stones as nearly perfect as occur commercially. The 
stones that are imperfect by reason of cracks, flaws, 
shape unsuitable for being brilliant cut, discoloration, 
poor color, or other blemish, greatly exceed in number 
the perfect stones, and their price per carat is about the 
same for any size from one carat up. Thus, off- color or 
otherwise imperfect diamonds are worth from sixty to 
eighty dollars per carat, irrespective of size. 

The diamond may be taken as the type of value in 
this respect, though only in a general way. The weight 
of the true precious stones per carat is nearly the same; 
but some stones, as the opal, which are very valuable, 
are much lighter than the diamond, and therefore larger 
than diamonds of the same weight. See Pearl, below. 

The approximate prices (at present) and sizes of 
perfect, white, hrilJiant-cut diamonds weighing from 
one-half a carat up to four carats is shown in the table 
below. 1 



Weight. 


Greatest Diameter. 


Price. 


■J carat. 


.175 in. 


$58 


1 


.219 in. 


$160 


n " 


.236 in. 


$210 


n " 


.251 in. 


$270 


ii - 


.263 in. 


$350 


2 " 


.272 in. 


$400 


3 " 


.313 in. 


$1,000-$1,200 


4 


.350 in. 


$l,700-$2,000 



Here, it will be noticed, the price increases enormously 
as the stone increases in weight. This is the case with 
all the true precious stones when perfect. The figures 
given are for unmounted stones, as are all those given 
under the various headings below. The cost of mounting 
will vary from a few dollars up, according to the 
amount of gold used and the elaborateness of the design 
into which it is worked. 



114 PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 

A great variety of stones which occur massive in 
nature are of such beauty, that when properly cut and 
polished they are appropriate for use in rings, seals, 
etc. Most of these have no considerable value in pieces 
of such size as are so used, except that which arises 
from the labor expended in cutting and polishing them. 
The expense of this is ordinarily about two dollars. 
A stone can be cut into a special design for a seal for 
from ten dollars up. Larger specimens of such stones 
which are unusually fine or otherwise remarkable often 
have value for cabinets greater than their value for 
jewelry. When no values are given to the stones in the 
list below, they belong to this class. 

Many stones of very different values so much resemble 
each other that only an expert can tell them apart by 
their looks, and the expert is sometimes compelled to 
resort to acid and scratching to determine with cer- 
tainty what a given stone is. The diamond, v/hen per- 
fect, is clear; but commercially perfect rubies, emer- 
alds, etc., are more or less cloudy or wavy in their 
transmitted light effects, because of inequalities in 
density, etc. Glass, or paste, imitations of these are 
apt to be too clear; glass, or paste, imitations of dia- 
mands are more dull and lifeless and can be seen 
through from the top more easily than the diamond, as 
they lack the high refractive power which causes the 
sparkle of the diamond. 

Ag'ate. A semipellucid, uncrystallized variety of 
quartz, presenting various tints in the same specimen. 
Its colors are delicately arranged in stripes or bands, 
or blended in clouds. 

Alexan'drite. A variety of chrysoberyl found in the 
mica slate of the Ural Mountains. It is of a rich garnet 
color by artificial light; by daylight of a dark moss 
green. It is the only stone that so changes. The 
finest specimens of alexandrite are nearly as valuable as 
diamonds. 

Alman'dine. A common maroon-red variety of 
garnet. 

Am'ethyst. A variety of crystallized quartz, of a 
purple or bluish violet color, of different shades. It 
is much used as a jeweler's stone. The lighter colored 
ones come from Brazil; the deep purple ones come from 



PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 115 

Siberia. In value they are about the same as the 
garnet. 

Aquamarine (a-kwa-ma-ren'). A transparent, sea- 
green variety of beryl, used as a gem. 

Aven'turine. A variety of translucent quartz 
spangled throughout with scales of yellow mica. 

Ber'yl. A very hard mineral of much beauty when 
transparent. It occurs in hexagonal prisms, commonly 
of a green or bluish green color, but also yellow, pink, 
and white. It is a silicate of aluminum and glucinum. 
Beryls are very rich in colors. Their value is about 
four dollars per carat. 

Cam'eo. A figure cut in stone or shell that is com- 
posed of different colored layers. The value depends on 
the artistic merit of the engraved figure. 

Blood'stone. A green siliceous stone sprinkled with 
red jasper, whence the name. 

Car'buncle. A beautiful gem of a deep red color 
(with a mixture of scarlet), found in the East Indies. 
When held up to the sun, it loses its deep tinge, and be- 
comes of the color of a burning coal. The carbuncle of 
the ancients is believed to have been a garnet. The 
name is now given also to the ruby sapphire and the 
red spinel. The ordinary carbuncle is a garnet cut en 
cahochon, and is worth about one dollar a carat. 

Carne'lian. A varietj^ of chalcedony, of a clear deep 
red, flesh-red, or reddish white color. It is moderately 
hard, capable of a good polish, and often used for seals. 
It is now used but little. 

Cat's-eye. A variety of quartz or chalcedony exhibit- 
ing opalescent reflections from within, like the eye of 
a cat. The name is given to other gems affording like 
effects, especially the chrysoberyl. A fine specimen 
about three- eighths of an inch across would be worth 
from two to three hundred dollars. 

Chalced'ony. A crytocrystalline, translucent variety 
of quartz, having usually a whitish color, and a luster 
nearly like wax. 

Chrys'olite. A mineral, composed of silica, magnesia, 
and iron, of a yellow to green color. It is little used. 

Chrys'oprase. An apple-green variety of chalcedony. 
Its color is due to nickel contained in its composition. 

Den'drite. A stone or mineral in which are branch- 



116 PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 

ing figures, resembling shrubs or trees, produced by a 
foreign mineral, usually by an oxide of manganese; as 
in the moss agate. 

Di'amond. A precious stone or gem excelling in bril- 
liancy and beautiful play of prismatic colors, and re- 
markable for extreme hardness. It is found in many 
hues — green, rose, straw, yellow, etc.; but the straw- 
colored ones are the most common. The diamond is a 
native carbon occurring in isometric crystals, often octa- 
hedrons, with rounded edges. It is the hardest sub- 
stance known. Diamonds are said to be of the first 
water when very transparent, and of the second and 
third water as the transparency decreases For the 
values of diamonds see table above (p. 113). 

Diop'side. A crystallized variety of pyroxene (a s'li- 
cate of lime and magnesia), of a clear, grayish green 
color; also called mussite. 

Em'erald. A precious stone of a rich green color; it 
is the most valuable variety of beryl. See Beryl. 

Ep'idote. A mineral, commonly of a yellowish green 
color, occuring granular, massive, columnar, and in 
crystals. It is a silicate of alumnia, lime, and oxide of 
iron, or manganese. 

Es'sonite. Cinnamon stone. A variety of garnet. 
It is not much used. 

Fire o'pal. See Opal. 

Flu'orite. Calcium fluoride, a mineral of many differ- 
ent colors, white, yellow, purple, red, etc., often very 
beautiful. When crystalized it is commonly in cubes 
with perfect octahedral cleavage. Some varieties are 
used for ornamental vessels. Also called fluorspar, or 
simply fluor. The colored varieties are often called 
false ruhy, false emerald, false topaz, false sapphire, and 
false amethyst. For jewelry purposes the chief value of 
the stone is the expense of cutting and mounting. 

Flint. A massive, somewhat impure variety of 
quartz, in color usually of a gray to brown or nearly 
black, breaking with a conchoidal fracture and a sharp 
edge. See Quartz. 

Flu'orspar. Same as Fluorite. 

Gar'net. A mineral having many varieties differing 
in color and in their constituents, but with the same 
general chemical formula. The commonest color is red; 



PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 117 

the lustre is vitreous, or glassy; and the hardness is 
greater than that of quartz, about half as hard as the 
diamond. 

The common crystal forms are the dodecahedron and 
trapezohedron. Besides the red varieties there are also 
white, green, yellow, brown, and black ones. 

The garnet is a silicate with various bases such as 
alumina-lime (grossularite essonite or cinnamonstone), 
alumina-magnesia (pyrope), alumina-manganese (spes- 
sartite), and chromium-lime (ouvarovite, color emerald 
green). The transparent red varieties are used as 
gems. The garnet was the carbuncle of the ancients. 
Garnet is a very common mineral in gneiss and mica 
slate. 

The finest specimens of red garnets come from Ari- 
zona; and a single carat stone is worth about two 
dollars. A green variety that comes from Russia is 
worth about half as much as the diamond. 

Gorden beryl. See Beryl, 

He'liotrope or Blood'stone. A green siliceous stone 
sprinkled with jasper, as if with blood, whence the 
name. 

Hem'atite. An important ore of iron, the sesquioxide, 
so called because of its red color when in the form of 
powder. It occurs in splendent rhombohedral crystals, 
and in massive and earthy forms, the last being called 
red ochre. It is now seldom used in jewelry, 

Hy'acinth. A red variety of zircon, sometimes used 
as a gem. It resembles closely a dark Spanish topaz, 
and is worth a little more than the garnet. 

Id'iocrase. A mineral occurring in tetragonal crys- 
tals and also massive, of a brown to green color, rarely 
sulphur yellow, or blue. It is a silicate of alumina 
and lime, with some iron and magnesia. It is common 
at Mt. Vesuvius. It is little used. 

Indic'olite. A variety of tourmaline of an indigo-blue 
color. 

lolite. A silicate of alumina, iron, and magnesia, 
having a bright blue color and a vitreous or glassy 
lustre. It is remarkable for its dichroism, and is also 
called dichroite. 

Ja'cinth. Same as Hyacinth. 

Jade. — A stone commonly of a pale to dark green 



118 PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 

color, but sometimes whitish. It is hard and very- 
tough, capable of a fine polish, and is used for orna- 
mental purposes and for implements, especially in East- 
ern countries and among many primitive peoples. 

Jas'per. An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of 
red, yellow, and other du!i colors, breaking with a 
smooth surface. See Quartz. 

Ky'anite. A mineral occurring in thin-bladed crys- 
tals and crj^stalline aggregates, of a sky-blue color. It 
is a silicate of aluminum. It is little used for jewelry. 
Lab'radorite. A kind of felspar, commonly showing 
a beautiful play of bluish-gray colors, and, hence, much 
used for ornamental purposes. The finest specimens 
come from Labrador. 

La'pis-laz'uli or Laz'uli. A mineral of a fine azure- 
blue color, usually occuiTing in small rounded masses. 
It is essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, 
with some sodium sulphide. It is often marked by 
yellow spots or veins of sulphide of iron, and is much 
valued for ornamental work. 

Moon'stone. A nearly pellucid variety of felspar, 
shoAving pearly or opaline reflections from within. The 
best specimens come from Ceylon. Their value is not 
much more than the expense of cutting. 

Nephrite. A hard, compact mineral, of a dark green 
color, formerly worn as remedy for diseases of the kid- 
neys, whence its name kidneystone. 

Obsid'ian. A kind of glass produced by volcanoes, 
it is usually of a black color and opaque, except in thin 
splinters. 

Orivine. A common name of the yellowish green 
mineral chrysolite, especially of the variety occurring in 
eruptive rocks. See Chrysolite. 

On'yx. Chalcedony in parallel layers of different 
shades of color. It is used for making cameos, the 
figure being cut in one layer with the next layer as a 
background (see Cameo). It is stained black and used 
to make mourning jewelry. 

O'pal. A mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, 
but inferior to quartz in hardness and specific gravity. 
The precious opal shows a peculiar play of colors of 
delicate tints and it is highly esteemed as a gem. One 
kind, with a varied play of color in a reddish ground, is 



PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 119 

called harlequin opal. The fire opal (which comes from 
Mexico) has colors like the red and yellow of flame. 
This is not the cheap variety commonly called " Mexican 
opal." A spherical op'al about three eighths of an inch 
in diameter, or an oval flat opal about half an inch long, 
would be worth about sixty dollars. A " Mexican opal " 
of the same size would be worth about fifteen dollars. 

Pearl. A shelly concretion, usually rounded, having 
a brilliant lustre, with varying tints, formed in the 
mantle, or between the mantle and shell, of certain 
bivalve mollusks (especially in the pearl oysters and 
river mussels) and sometimes in certain univalves. Its 
substance is the same as nacre, or mother-of-pearl. 
Pearls which are round, or nearly round, and of fine 
lustre, are highly prized as jewels. They are sold by 
carat grains, instead of carats. 

A fair, round pearl weighing one grain is about one- 
eighth of an inch in diameter, and is worth about $3; 
a pearl of two grains is worth about $11; one of three 
grains, about $40; one of four grains or one carat, 
about $65. A pearl of the diameter of a carat diamond 
weighs about six grains, and is worth from $300 to 
$400; one the size of a two- carat diamond weighs about 
twelve grains, and if fairly good, is worth about $1,200, 
and if very fine, from $1,800 to $2,000. These prices 
are those of the present time (1902). The price is con- 
stantly changing as they become more or less fashion- 
able, and varies at any time with the degree of perfec- 
tion in shape, color, etc. So the larger pearls are more 
valuable than diamonds of the same size across. (See 
the table on p. 113.) 

Py'rope. A variety of garnet of a poppy-red or 
blood-red color, frequently with a tinge of orange. It is 
used as a gem. 

Rho'donite. Manganese spar, or silicate of mangan- 
ese, a mineral occurring crystallized and in rose-red 
masses. It is almost entirely used for ornamental 
purposes, in slabs, blocks, etc. 

Rock crys'tal or Moun'tain crystal. Any transparent 
crystal of quartz, particularly of limpid or colorless 
quartz. A sphere of rock crystal of absolutely perfect 
clearness, about five inches in diameter, is worth at 
least twenty thousand dollars. 



120 PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 

Rose quartz. A variety of quartz which is pinkish 
red. 

Rubel'lite. A variety of tourmaline varying in color 
from a pale rose red, to a deep .ruby, and containing 
lithium. It is a little more valuable than the garnet. 

Ru'by. A precious stone of a carmine- red color, some- 
times verging to violet, or intermediate between carmine 
and hyacinth red. It is a crystalized variety of corun- 
dum. The ruby from Siam is of a dark color and is 
called ox-blood ruby. It has about the same value as 
the diamond. The ruby from Burmah, called the pigeon- 
blood ruby, is of a lighter color and several times more 
valuable than the ox-blood ruby. A fine pigeon-blood 
ruby of two carats would be worth upwards of six 
thousand dollars. 

Ru'tile. A mineral, usually of a reddish-brown color 
and brilliant, metallic, adamantine lustre, occuiTing in 
tetragonal crystals. 

Sap'phire. A variety of native corundum or alum- 
inum sesquioxide. As the name of a gem the term is 
restricted to the transparent varieties of blue, pink, 
yellow, and other colors. The best specimens of the 
blue variety are neaily as valuable as the diamond. 
The sapphire is next to the diamond in hardness. 

Sard. A variety of carnelian, of a reddish-yellow or 
brownish color. 

Sardon'yx. A variety of onyx consisting of sard 
and white chalcedony in alternate layers. See Onyx. 

Spi'nel. A mineral occurring in octahedrons of great 
hardness and various colors, as red, green, blue, brown, 
and black, the red variety being the gem spinel ruhy. 
It consists essentially of aluminum magnesium, but 
commonly contains iron and sometimes also chromium. 
The fine specimens of spinel ruby are worth rather more 
than half as much as the diamond. 

Sun'stone. Aventurine felspar; aventurine. 

To'paz. A mineral occurring in rhombic prisms, gen- 
erally yellowish and pellucid, also colorless, and of green- 
ish, bluish, or brownish shades. It sometimes occurs 
massive and opaque. It is fluosilicate of aluminum, and 
is used as a gem. It is but little more valuable than 
the garnet, except occasional unusually fine specimens. 

Tour'maline. A mineral occurring in three- sided 



PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY lai 

prisms. Black tourmaline is the most common variety, 
but there are also other varieties, as the blue {indi- 
colite), red {rubcUitc), also green, brown, and white. The 
red and green varieties, when transparent, are valued 
as jewels. The finest ones come from Maine, and are 
worth four or five times as much as garnets. 

Tur'quoise. A hj'drous phosphate of alumina con- 
taining a little copper. It has a blue, or bluish-green 
color, and usually occurs in kidney-shaped masses with 
a nodular surface, like that of a bunch of grapes. The 
fine specimens are worth nearly half as much as dia- 
monds. 

U'nio-pearl. A single large pearl. 

Ura'lian em'erald. A precious stone of a rich green 
color, a variety of beryl. 

Verd antique (an-tck'). A mottled-green, sei-jientine 
marble. Also a green porphyry, which is called oriental 
verd antique. 

Zir'con. A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, 
usually of a brown or gray color. It consists of silicon 
and zirconium, and is harder than the garnet. The 
transparent varieties are used as gems. The red variety 
is called hyacinth; a colorless, pale yellow, or smoky- 
brown variety from Ceylon is called jargon. 



SENTEMENTS OF GEMS, AND MONTHS FOR WHICH 
GEMS ARE ^"ATAL STONES. 

Agate. Health, wealth and long life. June, May. 

Alexandrite. Undjdng devotion. August. 

Amethyst. Deep love; also a preventive of intoxica- 
tion. February, INIarch. 

Aquamarine. October. 

Bloodstone. Courage and wisdom. March, December. 

Carnelian. Prevents misfortune. May, July, August. 

Cat's-eye. Warns of dangers and troubles. June. 

Chalcedony. Gladdens the heart. September, De- 
cember. 

Chrysoprase. Eloquence. December. 

Diamond. Purity; preserves peace; prevents storms. 
April, September. 



122 PRECIOUS STONES USED IN JEWELRY 

Emerald. Immortality; conquers sin and trial. May, 
June. 

Garnet. Insures power, grace, and victory to the 
wearer. January. 

Hyacinth. Gives second sight. March. 

Jacinth. Modesty. January. 

Jasper. Courage and wisdom. March. 

Moonstone. Good luck. It is the sacred stone of the 
Orient. August. 

Onyx. Conjugal felicity. July. 

Opal. Hope; innocence; purity. October. 

Pearl. Charity, dignity, and divine power. July, 
December. 

Sapphire. Constancy, truth, and virtue. April Sep- 
tember, October. 

Sardonyx. Felicity; prevents misfortune. August, 
July, September. 

Topaz. Friendship and fidelity. August. 

Turquoise. Prosperity; cheers the heart. December, 
June. 







MAY 2 9 x902 



^9 1902 

1 COPY DEL. TO CAT. DiV. 
MAY 29 1902 



m 



