Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



I 



JRADCUFFE COIXEGE UBRAtY( 

WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Truufened from 

HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

1960 



SatbatB dCalleit Itttati 

RECEn/BD ay BEQUEST 



r~i 






\ 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



PRACTICAL COOKING 
* AND SERVING 



A COMPLETE MANUAL OF HOW TO 
SELECT, PREPARE, AND SERVE FOOD 



BY 



JANET McKENZIE HILL 

EDITOR OF **THE BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL MAGAZINE" 
-AUTHOR OF "SALADS, SANDWICHES, AND 
CHAFING-DISH DAINTIES'^ 



WITH MANr ILLUSTRATIONS 




NEW YORK 
DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY 

1902 



^juu ^n'^.b%.s 



HAIIVAfID COllEGi LIBRARY 

BtQUtST Of 

MRS. CHtSUK V. QREENOUeH 

KPTtMBLK 20, 1926 



Copjr^t, tqpi, by 

Doobleday, Page & Companf 

Published October, 190a 






"Certainly," replied the oracle, ''study the art of pleasing by dress 
and manner as long as you are of an age to interest us; and, above all, 
let all women, pretty and plain, married and single, study the art of 
cookery. If you are an artist in the kitchen, you will always be 
esteemed. Only be careful, in studying both arts, never to forget the 
great truth that dinner precedes blandishments, and not blandishments 
dinner. '' 

Elizabeth and Her German Garden 

I REGARD the discovery of a dish a far more interesting event than the 
discovery of a star, for we have already stars enough, but we can never 
have too many dishes ; and I shall not regard the services as sufficiently 
honored or adequately represented among us until I see a cook in the 
first dass of the [French] Institute. 

HouRiON D£ Pbnesey (a learned French judge). 



PREFACE 

This book is designed to be something more than a com- 
pilation of recipes — though recipes make up a large portion 
of its contents. Cookery is a necessary art, and an art that 
is worthy the attention of the most intelligent and cultivated 
women of the land. How far women realize that the warp 
and woof of our muscular and nervous systems are woven 
out of the food we eat, or that food even more than environ- 
ment makes or mars the individual. 

In the arrangement of subject matter into chapters, the 
time-honored divisions into bread, soups, eggs, fish, etc., 
have been retained, though this plan is not strictly scien- 
tific. In the secondary grouping of topics in the various 
chapters, an attempt has been made, as far as possible, to 
classify the matter in a systematic and scientific manner. 
The relation between the various subdivisions, and their 
interdependence not only upon each other, but also upon 
divisions made in other parts of the volume, is shown. In 
this and other respects we claim that the book is a step in 
advance on all preceding works on cookery — from which 
we hereby acknowledge we have drawn inspiration and aid. 

The remark has been made recently by an authority od 
the subject that **a good cook does not need recipes. " This 
is, perhaps, in accordance with the idea that cooks, like poets, 
are born and not made. But while a grain of truth may lie 
hidden in this statement, still there is room for misunder- 
standing and a well-founded difference of opinion. In the 
science and art of cookery we are dealing with materials 
that cannot be said to have a fixed value; yet the effects of 
heat and moisture, at varying degrees of temperature, and 
the several combinations necessary to secure definite results 
under ordinary circumstances, may become as thoroughly 
fixed in mind as the multiplication table or the declension 



viii PREFACE 

of nouns. A cook with this fundamental knowledge under- 
stands the relation between a sauce thickened with roux, a 
custard souffle, an ice cream thickened with starchy material, 
and many an entree. She knows the probable value, or 
•jellying quality, of a certain quantity of starch or gelatine, 
and with no fear of failure she adds whipped white of egg, 
or cream, to the remnants of a fruit jelly to produce, respect- 
ively, a charlotte or a Bavarian cream, and thus formulates 
recipes to.make use of the materials she has on hand. 

But while the majority of girls in America become pro- 
ficient in mathematics before the age of fifteen, as yet it is 
only the favored few who receive any systematic training in 
the principles of cookery ; -and hence there still seems to be 
a demand for reliable formulas in accordance with which 
food materials may be successfully combined. Then, again, 
progress is made in cookery as in other arts, and what is 
considered a good method of procedure to-day may be much 
improved upon to-morrow. For these and other excellent 
reasons we have endeavored to note and to illustrate the 
latest and best in manipulation and appliance that pertaineth 
to the culinary art. 

Recipes are given for simple every-day dishes and also for 
such as are in demand on the most formal occasions. To 
insure accuracy, it is to be noted that in all recipes where 
flour is used, unless otherwise stated, the flour is measured 
after sifting once. When flour is measured by cups, the 
cup is filled with a spoon, and a level cupful is meant. A 
tablespoonful or a teaspoonful of any designated material is 
a level spoonful of such material. 

The recipes are of dishes prepared by the author during 
an experience of twenty years in housekeeping; these are 
supplemented by dishes prepared to illustrate demonstra- 
tions in cookery given before classes of housekeepers in 
New England, the Middle West and the South. 

A few formulae are favorite recipes donated by cooking 
teachers, cooks and housekeepers of note in various sections 
of the country. A part of these have been tried by the 
author and found excellent; others have not been so tested^ 



PREFACE ix 

but in all cases the name accompanying the recipe is guar- 
anty of the quality of the dish. Many of these recipes appear 
now for the first time in print; others have been published 
in the Boston Cooking School Magazine, and still others have 
accompanied illustrations by the author in The Ladies' Home 
Journal. As the main idea in The Journal was pictorial 
rather than literary, the details of combination were not 
dwelt upon in that publication; these are here, together 
with the illustrations, now made complete. 

Recognizing the fact that names were originally given 
to food combinations for specific reasons, which still have 
meaning to the initiated, an attempt has been made to pre- 
serve the original names of dishes, and to avoid designating 
at random other combinations, which are founded upon the 
original or derivative idea. 

In respect to the illustrations, the fact that a dish presents 
an attractive appearance does not argue necessarily that it 
is expensive. A simple mold of pink rhubarb jelly, sur- 
rounded with whipped cream, presents an elegant or showy 
appearance, yet with rhubarb at two cents per pound and 
sugar at six the dish could not be considered too elaborate 
or expensive for occasional use. The difference in cost of 
materials and time expended is not so great that it should 
be considered burdensome to present a dish finished with a 
sprig of parsley, a curl of bacon, one or two toast points, or, 
occasionally, as in the case of a sweet, with half a cup of 
whipped cream. If the habit of making all dishes attractive 
be once acquired, the extra time will not be noted or the 
effort given a thought. 

Of the illustrations, some are given to make plain the 
different processes in cooking, or to show the utensils 
used in the several operations. Others are given as a 
guide in serving — ^i. e., to show how the finished dish should 
appear. 

Dainty serving is intimately connected with dainty cook- 
ing. In fact, it is the climax of the art of cookery. Though 
hints on serving will be found scattered throughout the 
volume, a special chapter is devoted to garnishing and serv- 



X PREFACE 

ing, and another to the art of hospitality and the etiquette 
of entertaining. 

Taking into consideration the present large and rapidly 
increasing number of women who are interested in providing 
a well-balanced dietary for their famihes, the chemical 
composition of the various food products, as given in the 
bulletin prepared by Professor Atwater for the United States 
Department of Agriculture, has been presented at the head of 
the respective chapters. To follow the laboratory standards 
accurately, as these are given for different classes and ages 
of individuals, calls for more time and appliances than the 
average housekeeper has at her command. Indeed, this will 
not be attempted in daily life, except occasionally, unless by 
specialists; nor is this in any sense a necessity. But a study 
of these tables, in connection with the matter in Chapter I., 
Part I., and in Chapters II. and IV., in Part III., will enable 
the thoughtful housekeeper, in planning her weekly bills of 
fare, to secure, approximately, the right proportions of the 
various food pr'nciples, or, if she wills to do so, as accu- 
rately as in the work of the specialist. 

But we believe that a woman's duty does not end in the 
selection of food containing the proper proportions of the 
various food principles. What does it avail to select wisely 
if in cooking we lose the nutritive value originally found in 
the product, or if, through monotony in manner of prepara- 
tion, the food fail to be assimilated 1 

That the careful use of this book may enable the thought- 
ful mistress or maid to take the most common and inexpen- 
sive food products and so prepare them as to bring out and 
conserve their latent and nutritive qualities of juiciness and 
flavor, and at the same time render them pleasing to the 
eye and acceptable to the palate, is the earnest desire of 
the author. 



CONTENTS 



PART I 



" Tutor'd in the rudiments. " 

I will tell you the beginning, and if it please your ladyships, you 
may see the end. — As You Like It, i, 2. 



CHAPTER 

I. 

II. 
III. 
IV. 

V. 



Definition of Food. Object in Cooking Food. The 
Kitchen Range. Food Principles .... 
Cooking of Starch and Albumin .... 
Elementary Processes of Cooking .... 
Processes and Terms used in Cooking 
Cook's Time Table. Tables of Proportions, Weights 
and Measures 



PAGE 

I 

6 

10 

19 
36 



PART II 

If a man or a woman has not the soul of a cook, the most 
minute recipe will only end in failtire. — Kettner. 

I. Beverages ....... 

II. Eggs ........ 

III. Fish and Its Cookery. Frogs and Terrapin 

IV. Beef, Mutton, Veal, Lamb, Pork 

V. Poultry and Game ...... 

VI. Soups and Soup Making ..... 

VII. Sauces ........ 

VIII. ComplexMeatandFish Dishes, Entries, Rechauffes, etc 

IX. Vegetables and Their Cookery .... 

X. Com Plants used as Breakfast Food and Vegetables 

XL Chafing Dish Cookery and Service 

XII . Salads, Sandwiches and Hors-d'CEuvres 

XII I Che: se and What Can be Done With It 

XIV. Batters and Doughs 

xi 



43 
61 

80 

122 

163 

188 

220 

244 

284 

326 

339 
350 

375 
384 



Xll 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER 

XV. 

XVI. 

XVI I. 

XVIII. 

XIX. 

XX. 

XXI. 

XXII. 

XXIII. 

XXIV. 

XXV. 

XXVI. 

XXVII. 



Bread and Bread Making .... 
Cake and Cake Making .... 
Cake Icings and Decorations 
Pastry and Pies ..... 

Puddings and Dessert Dishes . , 

Cold Dessert Dishes ..... 

Hot Puddings, etc 

Sweet Sauces ...... 

Fruit, Fresh and Cooked, for Immediate Use 

The Preservation of Fruit 

Frozen Desserts ..... 

Boiling Sugar. Candy Making 
Food for the Sick and Convalescent 



PAGE 

391 

421 

458 

470 

493 
498 
529 
548 
557 
578 
596 
627 

640 



PART III 

The pleasure of the table is peculiar to the human species; it sup- 
poses antecedent attention to the preparation of the repast. 

— Hay WARD. 



I. Marketing. Care of Food and Cooking Utensils 

II. Office of Food in the Body . ' . 

III. Referring to a Well-balanced Dietary 

IV. The Physiology of Digestion 
V. Suggestions on Garnishing and Serving 

VI. Hospitality and the Etiquette of Entertaining 

VII. Menus for Occasions ..... 



656 
664 
668 
674 
679 
6S4 
709 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Apple Charlotte 

Apples, Duchess Style 

Apple with Gluten, Cherries, etc., Baked 

Apple with Junket, etc. 

Apples with Sauce, Blushing 

Asparagus Salad in Jelly • . 

Banana Shortcake .... 

Bavarian Cream, Apricot with Snow Eggs 

Bavarian Cream, Pineapple 

Bavarian Cream with Prunes, Rice . 

Beans, Boston Baked .... 

Bsans, Boston Baked, Ready for Baking 

Beef, Cannelon of, with Macaroni 

Beef Cutlets, Ragout of Macaroni with 

Beef au Gratin, Creamed Corned 

Beef, Rib Roast of 

Beefsteak, Sirloin 

Biscuit, Oatmeal . 

Blackberry Sponge 

Bonbons 

Boned and Stuffed Fowl, Larded 

Bread and Moulds, Brown 

Bread, Entire Wheat 

Bread Making, Utensils for 

Bread with Raisins, Boston Brown 

Breadstick Pan and Breadsticks . 

Cabbage Salad .... 

Cabinet Pudding with Jelly, Hot 

Cake, Birthday, with Candles 

Cake Covered with Almond Icing 

Cake Decorated with Fruit and Lady Fingers 

Cake Making, Utensils for 

Cakes, Small Chocolate, Marshmallow Frosting 

Cake Tins 



PACING PAGB 

328 
644 
570 

522 

162 
162 
126 
262 

254 
126 

130 

408 

572 

630 

22 

398 

398 

398 
416 

408 

364 
540 
436 
452 
436 
424 

456 
424 



3UU 



XIV 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Casserole, French . 

Casserole, Japanese 

Celery with Cheese au Gratin 

Celery and Orange Salad 

Chafing Dish Fork and Spoon 

Charlotte Moulds and Double Moulding 

Charlotte Russe, Individual Strawberry 

Charlotte Russe with Salpicon of Fruit 

Chaudrfoid of Mutton Chops 

Chaudfroid of Tongue with Aspic Jelly 

Cheese Balls ..... 

Cheese Cakes with Cherries 

Cheese Croquettes with Paper Aigrettes 

Cheese Service, Suggestions for 

Cheese Straws and Rings 

Cherries with Crusts .... 

Chicken Aspic, Timbales of Ham in . 

Chicken Cutlets, Cress Salad and Mayonnaise 

Chicken Cutlets, Parker House Style 

Chicken Dressed for Broiling 

Chicken Forcemeat with Quenelles, Shells of 

Chicken, Fillets of, with Mushrooms . 

Chicken Glac^ with Cress Salad, Cream of 

Chicken, Pressed ..... 

Chicken Salad in Rolls 

Chicken Saut^ with Cauliflower . 

Chicken Soup with Breadsticks 

Chicken, Stewed, with Asparagus 

Chicken, Timbales .... 

Chocolate Eclairs, Horseshoe Shape 

Chocolate Puffs 

Chops, Rib, Frenched, Loin 
Chops with Spinach, Broiled Mutton 
Chopper, Enterprise .... 
Cocoa Frappd, Whipped Cream . 
Codfish Baked with Forcemeat, Boned 
Codfish Balls, Salt .... 
Com Custard with Broiled Tomatoes . 

Cranberry Pie 

Cream Beaten Solid with Egg Beater . 
Cream Ice in Muskmelon . 
Cream, Whip Chum with Frothed 



PACING PAGB 
I 80 
184 

342 
496 

522 

278 
278 
380 
380 
382 

376 
380 

574 
282 

282 

254 
168 

262 

272 

282 

358 
176 

644 
184 
262 
462 
462 

1-30 

138 
246 

624 

90 

90 

318 
476 

30 
628 

30 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



XV 



Cress and Egg Salad .... 
Croquettes, Egg or Easter 
Croquettes, Shaping .... 
Crown of Lamb, Roast 
Custards Renvers^e, Individual . 
Cutters for Balls, French Vegetable . 
Desserts, Materials for .... 
Double Boiler . . • . 
Duck, Wild, Trussed for Roasting 

Easter Pudding 

Eggs, Stuffed au Gratin . 

Eggs, Stuffed, for Picnics . 

Eggs, Poached, with Spinach 

Egg, Poached, with Anchovy Paste . 

Egg, ^Shirred, in Cocotte 

Egg, Shirred, in China Case 

Eggs Shirred with Mashed Potato 

Eggs, Salpicon of, in Patty Shells 

Eggs, Soft Boiled, with Stuffed Tomatoes 

^gg^j Soft Boiled, Sicilian Fashion 

Egg, Souffl^d 

Egg and Tomato Jelly Salad 
Eggs, Utensils for Beating 

Endive Salad 

Fillet of Flounder Served in Silver Casserole 
Fillets of Flounder with Green Peas 
Finger Biscuit with Pistachio Nuts 
Fish k la Cr^ipe in Paper Cases . 

Fondant Making 

Fowl, Steamed, on Mound of Rice with Mushrooms 

Fruit Cup 

Frying, Scotch Bowl for . 

Galantine of Turkey, Sliced . 

Gnocchi k la Romaine 

Haddock, Stuffed and Baked 

Halibut, Baked, Garnish of Oyster Croquettes 

Halibut Steaks Baked with Oysters . 

Halibut, Turbans of, with Potato Balls 

Ham Baked with Cider 

Ham, Cold Boiled, Sliced 

Ham Croutons 

Ham Timbales with Chicken Aspic 



FACING 



PAGB 

68 

130 
508 
294 
496 
23 
176 

73 

68 
68 

78 
78 
78 

78 
73 

73 

73 

644 

354 

30 

364 

84 

94 

436 

104 

630 

180 

616 

394 
176 

383 

104 

84 
104 

84 
158 
158 

X63 

983 



xvi PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Handy Slicer 

Hors d'Oeuvres, Materials for 

Invalid's Tray 

Lace Papers for Sweet Dishes 

Lemon Fanchonettes 

Lemon Queens 

Lobster Cutlets 

Lobster Sandwiches 

Macaroni in Cheese Shell, Creamed 

Macaroni and Cheese with Welsh Rabbit 

Macaroon Souffle . 

Macedoine of Fruit and Nuts 

Measuring Cup 

Meringues, Mushroom . 

Meringues with Cream and Strawberri< 

Moulds for Entrees and Sweets 

Mould, Individual Basket 

Moulds, Melon, Brick and Bombe 

Moulds, Strawberry 

Muffins, Twin Mountain 

Muffins and Waffles with Utensils 

Mushrooms Cooked Under Glass 

Oatmeal with Figs and Cream 

Omelet with Macaroni and Tomato Sauce 

Orange Sections in Orange Jelly . 

Orange Sherbet in Orange Shells 

Oranges, Ways to Serve 

Othellos 

Oysters in Green Peppers, Creamed 
Oyster Salad in Ice Bowl . 
Oysters, Scalloped 
Pastry Bag and Tubes 
Pastry Baked on Inverted Tin . 
Pastry, Utensils for Making 
Patty Cutter, French Fluted 
Patties Filled with Asparagus Tips 
Peach Mousse .... 
Peach and Rice Meringue . 
Peaches, Pyramid of . . . 
Pears with Rice, Compote of, Stuffed 
Pigeons Stewed in Broth . 
Pineapple Omelet 



FACING PAGE 



640 
496 
480 
462 
118 
366 

342 
508 

22 

456 

456 
246 

596 
416 
416 

318 
328 

508 

596 
560 

436 
366 

362 

90 

30 
472 

472 

472 

476 

628 

574 
572 
572 
184 
540 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



xvu 



Pineapple and Strawberries in Pineapple Shell 

Plum Pudding k la David Hariim 

Potatoes, Baked, in the Half Shell 

Potato Garnishes ... 

Potato Nests, Filled . 

Potato Nests,. Utensils for Making 

Pumpkin Pie .... 

Pur^e Sieve and Pestle 

Quail, Boned, with Pur6e of Peas 

Quick-cut Chopping Knife . 

Raspberries with Rice Croquettes 

Rhubarb Jelly and Banana Cream 

Saddle of Mutton, Roasted . 

Salad, Bird's Nest 

Salad Plants and Salad Making 

Salmon, Boiled, Potato Balls and Cress 

Salmon, Chartreusse 

Salmon and Eggs in Curry Sauce 

Salmon Salad 

Salpicon of Fruit in Grape Fruit Basket 

Sardines with Spinach and Eggs 

Sauces, Utensils for Making 

Sausage with Apple Sauce . 

Savarin ..... 

Scallop Salad .... 

Scandinavian Rosettes, Prying of 

Shad, Planked .... 

Shad Roe-and-Cucumber Salad 

Spatula, Perforated Spoon, etc. . 

Spinach in Crown of Eggs . 

Springerlie and Springerlie Mould 

Squash, Steamed and Served in Shell 

Strawberry Bombe Glac^ . 

Strawberry Cannelon Glacd 

Strawberry Charlotte Glac^ 

Strawberry Shortcake . 

Strawberry Souffle, Frappd 

Strawberry Sponge 

Strawberry Vol-au-Vent 

''Strawberries, Sugar and Cream" 

Sugar Spinning 

Sultana Roll, Claret Sauce 



PACING PAGE 

544 

294 
308 
294 

294 
480 
246 
272 
246 

574 
512 

138 

358 
Frontispiece 

94 
90 

342 

354 

564 
118 

22 

158 
424 

362 

544 

94 
362 

328 

308 

452 
308 

616 

624 

596 
540 
624 

512 
480 
560 
628 
606 



xviii PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Swedish Rolls 

Swedish Timbale Cases .... 

Swedish Timbale Iron .... 

Sweetbreads, Baked, Totiraine Style . 

Syrup Gauge in Test Tube of Syrup 

Table, Christmas Dinner for Children . 

Table, Christmas Dinner, Evergreen Decorations 

Table, Dinner, first course .... 

Table, Family Breakfast .... 

Table, Family Luncheon. No Maid in Attendance 

Table Laid for Sunday Night Tea 

Table Laid for Reception or Tea 

Table, Ltmcheon, Centrepiece of Sweet Peas 

Table, Limcheon, Served from the Side 

Table, Luncheon, with Fringed Doilies 

Tongue Moulded in Aspic Jelly 

Tray for Five O'clock Tea . 

Ttirkey Garnished with Sausage and Celery 

Turkey Trussed for Roasting, Showing Tendons 

Turkey Trussed for Roasting, Back of . 

Veal Loaf Ready for Baking 

Vol-au-Vent Baked Over a Form 

Watermelon in Wedge Slices 



PACING PAGB 



408 

472 

628 

710 

710 

692 

656 

656 

704 

704 

672 

692 

672 

278 

706 

180 

168 

168 

126 

476 

564 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND 

SERVING 



PART I 

CHAPTER I . 

Definition of Food- Object in Cooking Food. 
Tlie Kitclien Range. Food Principles. 

"Three things are essential to life: air, water and food; and the 
order in which these are named expresses their relative importance to 
life. " — Hoy. 

Without air we stiffocate at once, without water we may- 
live from two to seven days, and without food from seven 
to forty days. Oftentimes the term " food " is made to include 
both air and water, but a true food by its oxidation in the 
body liberates force and produces heat; air and water are in 
reality simply a means to this end, but of themselves undergo 
no chemical alteration in digestion, liberate no force and 
produce no heat. Water acts as a solvent and a carrier of 
nutritive and waste materials, and by its evaporation on the 
sxirface of the body controls the heat produced by the oxida- 
tion of true food. Some knowledge of the part that both air 
and water play in the economy of nature is essential to a 
propter understanding of the subject of food, and the study of 
chemistry should precede and accompany the study of 
cookery. In short, there is scarcely any branch of learning 
from which the art of cookery does not demand tribute. 

Food is that (liquid or solid) which satisfies hunger and replaces 
the solid waste of the body. — Hoy. 

Water is that which slakes thirst and replaces the fluid loss of the 
body. — Hoy. 

I 



a PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Food, in order to replace the waste of the body, needs contain 
such elements, in combination, as are found in the body sub- 
stance; these complex substances are found in the material 
world around us. There are various ways in which changes 
in the natural condition of these material substances may 
be brought about so as to make them better adapted to 
Satisfy hunger and replace waste. The principal of these 
is by cooking. In cooking we apply heat and often moisture 
to food products in such manner that they are made more 
digestible (soluble and diffusible) either directly, as when 
starch is changed to dextrine, or tough and fibrous substances 
are softened and thus rendered easily divisible; or, indirectly, 
through the development of new and pleasing odors and 
flavors that excite the flow of the digestive fluids. Cooking 
also sterilizes food. 

THE KITCHEN RANGE 

Fire is one of the first essentials in cooking food. Fire 
for this purpose is usually confined in a cooking stove or. 
range. Outside the modem accessories of warming oven, 
water tank, front or coil, the common cooking range consists 
of a rectangular iron box divided into three compartments, 
viz., fire-box, ash-box and oven. The fire-box is lined with 
fire-brick and is separated from the receptacle below, which 
holds a pan for waste products, by a grate. The oven occupies 
the rest of the box, and with the lids or covers on the top 
is the principal feature of the range. Means are provided 
to convey hot air entirely around the oven before it enters the 
flue or chimney. The fire is regulated and controlled by 
dampers; these admit air to the burning fuel, check the 
strength of the draft (of air) and control the circulation of 
heat about the oven. 

HOW TO BUILD A FIRE 

The ash-pan is empty; the flue about the oven clean — the 
ash-pan needs be emptied each day and the flue cleaned 
each month — the draft below the fire-box is open, the damper 
that opens or closes the flue is drawn, affording free draft 



BUILDING A FIRE 3 

to the chimney, and the covers over the •fire-box are lifted. 
Everything being in readiness, the fire may be built. First 
put into the fire-box a generous layer of shavings, or wisps 
of paper twisted in the middle so that they may lie loosely 
in the box; above these put in, crosswise, short pieces of soft 
wood that lights readily, and then, in the same way, pieces 
of hard wood that burns more slowly ; above these put one or 
two shovelfuls of coal. Cover the top of the range, and apply 
a lighted match between the bars of the grate to the shavings 
or paper: when the wood is fairly ignited, add coal to fill the 
fire-box nearly even to the top of the bricks. The coal will 
settle down as the kindling burns. The fire-box should not 
be kept more than three-fourths full ; much less coal even will 
do the work in a family of ordinary size. When the blue flame 
disappears, close the stove door, leaving the damper in the 
door open. Adjust the damper in flue to send the current of 
hot air round the oven, instead of directly up the chim- 
ney. To check the fire still further, close the damper in the 
door, and open check-draft above; this lets in a current of 
cold air above the burning coal, and thus gently diminishes 
the strength of the draft. To keep a steady fire, add a few 
pieces of coal, occasionally, as the top coals begin to glow. 
After coal has once become glowing red in colour it begins 
to part with its strength. Keep in mind that air below a 
fire causes it to bum briskly; air above cools and deadens a 
fire; also the fact that most food is subjected to too much 
rather than too littleyheat. 

THE FIVE FOOD PRINCIPLES 

Now, there are in every food product certain compounds 
upon which its food value almost entirely depends, and there 
is danger that the full nutritive value of these may not be 
retained in the process of cooking. Then, too, we have 
become accustomed to combine, in cooking, materials that are 
widely different in chemical composition. All this tends to 
make the process of cookery very complex. As, for instance, 
in making an English cream, in which cornstarch, or flour, 
and eggs are used. Starchy substances are made more soluble 



4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

(digestible) by lorfg cooking at a moderate temperature, or 
by shorter cooking at a high temperature, while albumen is 
made less soluble by heat. If the eggs be added with the 
starch, one constituent of the cream will be sacrificed, and 
the chances are that it will be the most valuable of the two, 
including also the vegetable albumen of the vegetable com- 
pound. Hence, if cooking is to be conducted successfully, 
the composition of the product in hand must be accurately 
known, and the effects of the heat, at different temperatures, 
and of moisture, upon the various constituents must be clearly 
understood. 

The several compounds that enter into the composition 
of our food products may be grouped under five heads, 
as follows : 



The Five Food 

Principles 
or Compounds. 



Protein or r Albuminoids. • 

Nitrogenous ^ r P 1 f * 

Compounds. J Gelatinoids. \ ^^atme. 

Carbohydrates. ^ Collagen. 

Fats. 

Mineral matter. 

Water. 



Relating to cookery, the distinction between albuminoids 
and gelatinoids is worthy of attention, in that the former 
are made less soluble by heat and the latter, of which 
gelatine and collagen are the most important, more soluble. 

WHERE THESE COMPOUNDS^ ARE FOUND 

Water is found in all kinds of food, but largely in fruits and 
vegetables; in cooking these the water, which has been lost 
by evaporation (as in dried beans, etc.), needs be restored. 

Under the head of mineral matter are grouped iron, sulphur, 
lime, potash, magnesia, chloride of sodium, etc. Some one 
or more of these are found in all natural products, especially 
in vegetables, milk, and meat. When vegetables are cooked 
in water and the water is thrown away, these, oftentimes the 
most valuable constituents present, and other soluble elements, 
are lodt. 



FOOD COMPOUNDS 5 

Butter, cream, vegetable oils, and the fat of meat, visible 
and invisible, represent the fats. 

The carbohydrates are known principally as starch and 
sugar. Discarding the woody fibre, which envelops and 
forms the framework of vegetables and which is in reality 
a form of starch, starch is their most important constituent. 

The cereals contain from sixty to seventy percent, of starch. 
It is also present in the leaves and stems of plants. In rice 
seventy-six pounds in one hundred ^re pure starch. 

Common sugar is a chief constituent of sugar-cane and a 
few other grasses; it is found also in the juices of some roots, 
as beet, and occasionally in the juices of trees; milk sugar 
is found in the milk of cows and other mammalia and grapo 
sugar in ripened fruit. 

The nitrogenous food compounds, protein, are the most 
important, because they are the only compounds that con- 
tain nitrogen. Of these the albuminoids have precedence in 
point of value. White of egg, which is nearly pure albumen, 
is the type of this group ; to this same group belong the casein 
of milk, the musculin of animal flesh, the gluten of wheat and 
the legumin of peas, beans, and lentils. From bones, car- 
tilage, and connective tissue, boiled in water, are set free 
nitrogenous compounds that form with the water a jelly- 
like mass. These are the gelatines. 

The chief constituent of connective tissues is collagen, 
which is soluble in hot water and yields gelatine. It is partly 
due to collagen that a steak puffs up while cooking, and this 
is the substance in the steak that is made tender by soaking 
iu vinegar; when meat is kept, bacterial action gives rise 
also to acid secretions that soften the collagen. 



CHAPTER II 

The Cooking of Starch and Albumen 

The nitrogenous and carbohydrate principles are the two 
with which in cooking we have most to do. Albumen and 
starch represent these. An egg is almost pure albumen, 
while a potato is largely starch. When the conditions in- 
volved in the cooking of these two articles are well under- 
stood, a firm foundation upon which to build the future 
structure of cookery has been laid. 

THE COOKING OF STARCH 

If potatoes be pared and allowed to stand in cold water, 
some of the starch granules of the potato will settle to the 
bottom of the dish. These granules will remain to all outward 
appearance unchanged, -even if they stand hours in the water. 
That is, starch is not soluble in cold water. Solubility and 
digestibility are practically synonymous terms, for all solid 
food material needs to become soluble before it can pass 
through the walls of the digestive system and be assimilated. 

Prehistoric man was undoubtedly endowed with strong 
digestive powers, and was able, to some extent at least, to 
digest uncooked starch, but civilized man needs all the aid 
that cookery can devise, to render the starch in his food 
soluble. 

Upon the application of heat the wrinkled exterior of the 
hydrated, or water-soaked starch granules becomes distended 
and bursts, and if the granules be stirred during this process 
their delicate walls are broken down and a pasty mass results, 
which, when dry, is soluble in either cold or hot water. Such 
starch is readily digestible. 

But starch to be assimilated, must not only be soluble, 
it must be changed by the ptyalin of the saliva and the gastric 

6 



COOKING STARCH AND ALBUMEN 7 

juice into sugar, which, as soon as formed, may be absorbed 
into the circulatory system. This change may be partially 
brought about outside of the digestive apparatus and at a 
saving of energy on the part of the digestive organs. Of 
course, any approximation to this result would be of gain to 
the individual. This change is produced outside of the 
human body by subjecting starch to a high degree of heat. 
If ordinary dry starch granules be heated to a temperature 
of about 400° and kept there some ten minutes, they become 
brown in color, and, if mixed with water, they form a gummy 
solution, which does not change color, as does starch, when 
subjected to the iodine test. These granules are no longer 
starch, but dextrine; they are now in a condition to be easily 
changed into sugar and assimilated by the system. 

We see, at once, why baked, rather than boiled, potatoes 
are given to a child or an invalid. A potato boiled in water 
can attain a temperature no higher than the water in which 
it is cooked, viz. 212°. So that, though the starch be made 
soluble, it is not changed, as it is in a potato that is baked 
in an oven at a temperature of nearly 400° Fahr. The same 
is true in the baking of bread, and this is one reason why 
bread should be baked in small loaves. The intense heat 
of the oven changes the starch upon the outside to dextrine, 
but fails to change the starch throughout the loaf, on account 
of the large amount of moisture contained in it, which reduces 
the temperature somewhat. 

Then, in cooking starch, long cooking at a moderate tem- 
perature, or cooking at a sufficiently high temperature to 
change a portion of the starch to dextrine is desirable. 

THE COOKING OF ALBUMEN 

Let us ever keep in mind that digestibility and solubility 
are nearly synonymous terms in cookery. The albumen of 
egg is soluble in cold water. In water at 134° Fahr. white 
fibres appear throughout, and at 160° Fahr. the albumen 
has coagulated throughout the egg, but is still tender and 
jelly-like, and, being soluble, has lost little in digestibility. 
Now, when the hard state of an egg that has been cooked in 



' 



8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

boiling water (212° Fahr.) and the horny and still harder 
state of the egg that has been fried at 300° Fahr. is con- 
sidered, it must be plain that albumen in eggs loses in solubility 
(digestibility) as the temperature to which it is subjected 
is raised. Whatever is true in respect to the cooking of 
albumen in eggs, is equally true in respect to the cooking of 
albumen in meat and fish, and the corresponding substance 
in the gluten of grains and the casein of milk and cheese. 
In general, sentiment, or taste, demands, at least, a slight 
coagulation of the albuminous juices in articles of food, but 
any cookery that carries this coagulation beyond the jellying 
stage is wasteful of product and of digestive energy. The 
"cooking point'* of albumen, then, does net correspond to the 
boiling point of water; it is below this point. In actual 
practice it is a temperature between 160° and 180° Fahr. 
This point can be approximately secured and maintained, 
when substances are cooked in water kept at the simmering 
point, 185° Fahr., or when they are cooked in a double boiler. 
Albumen, as stated above, is found in the juices of flesh; 
these jtiices are stored up in hollow fibres bound together by 
connective tissues. When these fibres are cut through the 
juices are exposed, and if the meat be put into cold water, 
or into water or an oven below a temperature of about 134° 
Fahr., the juices containing the albumen are drawn out and 
dissolved in the water, or evaporated in the oven. They are 
withdrawn from the meat, which thus becomes poorer in 
quality and less nutritious. 

But if the meat be put ijito boiling water or a hot oven, 
the albumen in the fibres hardens or coagulates at once and 
closes the pores, or mouths, through which the juices must 
pass out; from five to fifteen minutes* cooking at this temper- 
ature suffices to form a thick coating over the cut surface 
and to keep the nutritious juices within the meat. This is 
the key to the proper method of cooking meat or fish. 

When these are to be cooked, as for soups or stews, and the 
nutritive juices are to be drawn out into the water, they 
should be set to cook in cold water. When these are to be 
served as boiled meats, or roasts, and the nutritious juices 



- SIMMERING AND BOILING 9 

are to be retained, the meat should be subjected, at the 
outset, to a high temperature, viz. that of boiling water, a 
very hot oven, or to the direct rays of the fire. But when once 
the initial process has been accomplished, the cooking of 
both must be completed at such a temperature as will insure 
a tender, jelly-like consistency throughout ; that is, the tem- 
perature of the soup kettle should be raised, while that of 
the boiling or roasting meat should be lowered to the simmer- 
ing point of water. 

The cooking of albumen or starch, when each is cooked 
separately, is a simple matter; the difficulty arises when the 
two are combined in the same dish. 

SIMMERING AND BOILING WATER 

When water is heated the air in it expands (bubbles seen 
on the bottom of the dish) rises and passes off. The heat now 
begins to change the water into an invisible gas, forming 
bubbles which are larger than the air bubbles. As they come 
near the surface they are cooled and burst, changing back 
into water. This bubbling below the surface is called simmer- 
ing. The temperature of such water is about 185** Fahr. 
As the water grows hotter, part of the bubbles reach the 
surface, and there give off puffs of steam. The temperature 
is now 212° Fahr. By increasing the heat the water may 
be made to boil furiously, but the temperature will not rise . 
higher; the extra heat is all used in turning the water into 
steam. 

One of the first essentials to proper cookery is the ability 
to distinguish between simmering and boiling water. 



CHAPTER III 



Elementary Processes of Cooking 



Roasting or Baking of Meat or Fish 
(Suitable for tender meat.) 



^ Broiling. 



Over Coals. 
Pan Broiling. 



*s. 



Saut^ing. 
Frying. 

Boiling. (Suitable for either tender or j °' 

tough meat. ) -j ^^^.^.^^ 

ROASTING AND BAKING 

Roasting and boiling are the most primitive ways in 
which heat is applied in cooking; other methods are derived 
from these. Of these roasting and its derivatives are the most 
esteemed. This is on account of the appetizing flavors 
analogous to that of caramel, which are brought out by the 
high temperature to which the article is subjected. In 
roasting, flesh is exposed to the direct rays of an open fire, 
but similar results can be obtained by heat reflected from the 
hot sides of a well-ventilated oven. As the latter method 
is the one in common use in this country, the words roasting 
and baking are herein used as synonymous. As roasted and 
broiled meats, save poultry, are usually served at least a 
little underdone, this method of cooking is admissible only 
for tender meats, time being a necessary factor when tough 
connective tissues are to be made soluble. 

First wipe the outside of the joint, or the inside of 
poultry, with a damp cloth ; then set on the rack in a dripping- 
pan of ample size. Have the rack smaller than the pan that 
the drippings for basting the joint may be gotten at easily. 
Let the pan stand in a very hot oven (a little hotter than for 
bread) about fifteen minutes to sear over the outside and 

lO 



ROASTING AND BROILING ii 

imprison the nutritious juices, then close the drafts, move 
the pan to a cooler part of the oven, and, if necessary to 
avoid burning, add a little hot water to the fat that has 
already dripped from the joint. To keep the meat from 
drying, spread over it every ten or fifteen minutes, the smaller 
the joint or article the oftener, the fat in the pan. Poultry 
and game, deficient in fat, must have this supplied in some 
forai. A small roast may be seared over in a frying-pan; 
if this be done, less heat is required in the oven. 

BROILING 

In broiling or grilling, as in roasting proper, the article to 
be cooked is exposed to the direct rays of the fire, but in 
broiling we are dealing with thin pieces of meat, or viands, 
dressed to present as much surface as possible to the heat; 
when properly cooked, the outside is slightly crusted over, 
while the inside is but delicately cooked. To secure this 
result the article is set about' three inches from the coals, or 
fuel at first, and is turned every ten seconds. The strong 
heat hardens the albumen in the ends of the hollow fibres 
and confines the juices ; by frequent turning burning is avoided, 
and both sides are cooked evenly. After the surface of the 
meat is well seared over, it should be withdrawn to a greater 
distance from the fire to finish the cooking. A hinged broiler, 
which does away with handling the article in turning, is the 
desirable utensil. Before using, heat this gently, and oil 
well the bars with fat from the meat. 

In broiling, gas and electricity give fairly good results, 
but broiling by electricity more nearly resembles pan-broiling, 
to be noted later. Gas is better adapted to broiling fish 
than steaks and chops. When a clear bed of coals is not at 
hand, a broiler, in which charcoal is the fuel, may be used 
with almost any stove, provided the stove be connected with 
the chimney. In broiling by any fuel, let the dampers be 
turned to carry the flame, caused by the dripping fat, away 
from the meat up the flue. As long as the meat contains 
uncoagulated juice, it will have a puffy appearance and 
rebound under pressure. One experienced in broiling can 



15 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

judge quite accurately of the condition of the meat by appear- 
ance and sense of touch; others will do well to regulate the 
time of cooking by the clock. Birds, sweetbreads, and other 
delicacies are often wrapped in oiled paper before broiling. 
(Consult Time-table of Cooking, page 38.) 

PAN BROILING 

Rub over the surface of a very hot cast-iron frying-pan with 
a bit of fat; put in the meat, and turn constantly, keeping 
the pan very hot. A cast-iron pan holds heat longer than a 
sheet-iron pan. Pour off melted fat that collects in the pan 
lest the meat be sautdd rather than broiled. 

SAUTEING 

It is but a step from pan-boiling to saut^ing; let the fat 
remain upon the chops and melt into the pan, and in this 
cook the chops, first on one side and then on the other, and, 
in reality, they are sauted. In practice, the fat to be used 
needs to be made hot in the pan, and then the article to be 
cooked is browned in the fat, first upon one side and then on 
the other. After the first side is cooked and the article is 
turned over, to cook the other side, the first side, being 
exposed to the air, cools very quickly, and the condensing 
steam leaves a vacuum into which the fat upon the outside 
settles, there being no opportunity to drain it off. Fat 
raised to a high temperature undergoes changes by which 
fatty acids are evolved, and these are not wholesome, so this 
form of cooking is not to be commended. When indulged 
in, the article to be cooked should be dried by rolling in 
flour, meal, or fine crumbs; then have the fat smoking hot, 
to sear over the outside and keep in the juices. 

FRYING 

Prying is a method of cooking in which heat is communi- 
cated to the article to be cooked by immersion in smoking 
hot fat, that is, in fat at a temperature between 345° and 
400° Fahr. Two important things are to be noted in frying: 
the article to be cooked is to be immersed in the fat, and the 



FRYING 13 

fat is to be smoking hot; also the preparation of the articles 
themselves should receive attention. In order that the 
articles to be fried may be immersed, use a deep kettle (a 
round, iron, Scotch bowl is needed), this must be filled with 
fat to nearly two-thirds its height, vegetable oil, cottolene, 
lard, clarified drippings, or with a mixture of these, according 
to one's means or taste. 

SMOKING HOT PAT 

Cooking fats do not boil, the bubbles rising in a kettle of 
hot fat and the spluttering noises are caused by water in the 
fat. If the temperature of spluttering fat be tested, the 
themiometer would register about a 12° Fahr., and as long 
as any water remains in the fat the temperature cannot be 
raised above this point; but when the water has evaporated 
the fat becomes still, and in a short time a faint blue smoke, 
or, more properly, vapor, becomes visible. This indicates 
a temperature of about 380° Fahr., and is the proper tem- 
perature for frying small articles; those, for instance, that 
are protected by a covering of egg and bread crumbs, especially 
if they have been previously cooked, as croquettes. Potatoes 
sliced thin, or tiny white-bait, the one on account of being 
cold and containing a large quantity of moisture, the other 
on account of size, and both because they are to be thoroughly 
crisped, require fat at a higher temperature, that is, about 
400° Fahr., while doughnuts and fritters are cooked at a 
temperature of about 345°. Vegetable oils reach the proper 
temperature for frying before smoke is visible, and, in any 
case, if one fails to detect smoke, the temperature may be 
tested by throwing in a piece of bread. 

TESTS FOR HOT PAT 

If the fat bubbles vigorously around the crumb, throwing 
out large bubbles of steam, and the bread browns while one 
is counting forty or fifty, the smoking point has been reached. 
If only small bubbles appear around the crumb and it does 
not brown quickly, the cooking point has not been reached. 
As articles that are to be cooked in fat contain water, which 



14 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

will be turned, in the hot fat, into steam and cause a "splut- 
tering, " it is well to make the surface of these dry before 
they are lowered into the fat. Sometimes flour, or flour 
mixed with liquid to form a batter, is used for this purpose, 
but egg and bread crumbs are used more frequently. When 
the article inclosed in a coating of egg and crumbs is plunged 
into the hot fat, the albumen in the egg coagulates at once, 
forming a fat-proof covering about the article. There is 
always some moisture, even in dry crumbs, as well as in the 
object itself; this keeps down the temperature inside the 
coating; also the coating not only keeps out the fat, but keeps 
in the flavor and savor in a remarkable manner, and the 
result is, if the article be but removed from the fat at the 
proper time, a most juicy and delicious plat. 

UTENSILS FOR FRYING 

A deep iron bowl with a bail, known as a Scotch bowl, a 
wire basket that fits loosely into the bowl, a long-handled 
fork or spoon, to hold the basket during frying and while 
the cooked articles are draining, a tin pan to set the basket 
on, and soft paper in a second pan for the final draining are 
the utensils that render frying a simple process. When a 
frying-basket is not accessible, a long-handled skimmer will 
do fairly well. 

TIME OF COOKING 

The articles should not be crowded in the basket, or they 
will lower the temperature too much, nor should they touch 
each other. The color when cooked should be fresh, bright 
yellow, or delicate brown. Fat in which chops or fillets of fish 
are to be cooked (these require about five minutes* cooking) 
should be drawn to a cooler part of the range after the first 
minute of cooking, lest the articles become too brown before 
they are thoroughly cooked. As the fat is not, or should 
not be, as hot when the frying is completed as at the beginning, 
it should be reheated until the smoke rises before a second 
lot is fried. Do not let the articles touch each other while 
draining on the paper at the mouth of the oven, else they 



CARE OF FAT 15 

lose their crispness ; remove from the basket and also arrange 
oa the serving-dish with the tips of the fingers. 

CARE OF FAT 

When the frying is completed and the fat has stood a few 
moments, to cool and settle, strain through a sieve, an old one 
will do, over which a piece of cheesecloth has been spread, 
into a clean receptacle ; wipe out the bowl with cloth or papers 
and return the fat, cover and set aside. When needed again, 
let stand on the back of the range and heat very slowly, 
then drop in some thin slices of potato; potato being very 
porous will absorb the impurities from the fat and thus clarify 
it. Particles of flour, etc. left in the fat after cooking will, 
when the fat is reheated, turn to charcoal, or become car- 
bonized and cause the fat to become dark in color; for this 
reason, or because the fat has been overheated and undergone 
chemical changes, fat that has been used only a few times 
often becomes unfit for frying, as it will not brown the food 
properly. When this is the case, set it aside for soap-mak- 
ing; with proper care, however, fat may be used for frying 
many times. 

Olive oil does not burn as readily as animal fats, and for 
this reason it may be used more repeatedly than lard or 
drippings. But in careless hands any fat is liable to become 
overheated and burned. The same kettle of fat may be 
used for frying all articles, if the fish or anything that imparts 
flavor be carefully protected with egg and bread-crumbs; 
but, in practice, where much frying is done it is more econom- 
ical to keep two bowls, one for fritters, and flour mixtures, 
the other for fish and meat preparations, renewing the fat 
in the latter from the former and adding fresh fat to the 
first kettle as it is needed. The fat from mutton, turkeys, 
and smoked meats is not good for the fat "bath"; bacon 
fat is used for saut^ing. When properly conducted, frying 
in deep fat has been found by careful experiments to be more 
economical than saut^ing; it is also more wholesome, as 
articles thus cooked properly and drained absorb very little 
fat. 



i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BOILING 

Boiling as applied to cooking is the application of heat to 
food products through the medium of boiling, or simmering 
water. At sea-level water boils at 212°, and simmers at 
185° Fahr. Rapid-boiling water, unless the steam be con- 
fined, attains no higher temperature and so cooks food no 
more quickly than water boiling less rapidly. When rapid- 
boiling water is advisable, as in boiling macaroni, rice, or 
peas, the object is not to cook more quickly, but to separate 
the contents by violence of motion and keep them from 
clinging to the receptacle in which they are cooked. The 
boiling point of stock and milk is slightly higher than that 
of water. Milk boils at 214° Fahr.; as this temperature 
hardens the casein, thus making it less digestible, milk should 
not be allowed to reach the boiling point; it should be cooked 
over hot water. When bead-like bubbles appear on the 
edge of milk next to the dish the milk is scalded. Scalded 
milk reaches a temperature of 196°. As we wish to retain 
all the juices in boiled meat, we plunge it, first of all, into 
boiling water, and after searing over the outside reduce the 
temperature to the simmering point. Water does not simmer 
when it is perfectly still, the surface of the liquid should stir 
gently. When bubbles are formed that break upon the 
surface, the water boils. While rapid boiling softens the 
connecting tissues between the little bundles of fibres and 
causes meat to appear tender, the fibre itself is made 
soluble only by long slow cooking; also the flavors of meats 
(and vegetables as well) are volatile, and much of these is 
carried off in the steam from rapidly boiling water. Thus, 
it would seem that, save for the hardening of the albumen, 
reason suffices for cooking meat, after the juices are im- 
prisoned, at the simmering point. Closed vessels aid in 
retaining flavor. 

STEWING 

Stewing is done by gentle simmering in a small quantity 
of liquid ; by this means the juices and gelatinous substances 



STEWING AND BRAISING 17 

in the products are partially softened and dissolved in the 
liquid; the saver and juices of the contents are divided 
between the article thus cooked and the liquid. Chef 
Meyer notices three varieties of stews : the brown stew, known 
as the ragout, or haricot; the white stew, as blanquette, or 
fricassee, and miscellaneous, or mixed stews, as the Irish 
stews and Hungarian goulash. The color of the brown 
stew is secured by browning, or saut^ing, the meat before 
the water is added. The meat for a white stew is put over 
a fire with cold water to cover, and the cooking proceeds 
very slowly until the boiling point is reached; when this 
has been well established, the cooking is completed at the 
simmering point. When the meat is tender, the vegetables 
used for flavoring are removed, and the sauce is thickened 
with a roux, or with flour mixed smoothly with water to 
pour. Oftentimes stews* are thickened by the addition of 
barley, rice, oatmeal, and potatoes, and a garnish of vegetables 
as small boiled onions, green peas, potato balls, or slices, 
or mushrooms are added. A close-covered sauce-pan, or 
a fire-proof casserole, are the best utensils for making stews. 
The cooking may be done in the oven, or on the top of the 
range. 

BRAISING 

Braising is a more elaborate process of stewing. This 
form of cooking is suited to small pieces of meat ; it provides 
a dish of rather more pretension than a stew, and yet one that, 
while it may supply the place of a roast, would not be con- 
sidered quite as elegant. Pans are made for braising, with 
lid sunk so as to hold hot coals, or burning charcoal, and thus 
providing heat above and below. Such pans are expensive; 
an ordinary pan, or plain earthen casserole with a cover 
answers every purpose. The article to be braised should not 
be very much smaller than the dish itself; a two-inch space 
on all sides of the article is ample. 

Melt in the dish an ounce of butter, or drippings, and then 
put in a layer of mixed vegetables, carrot, onion, celery, 
turnip, etc, cleaned and cut into small cubes; add also a 



i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

piece of bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, and a sprig of th5nne, if 
at hand. On this bed lay the articles to be braised, trimmed 
and fastened in compact shape, also larded, if desired. Put 
the cover over the meat and let cook, shaking occasionally 
for about fifteen minutes; then add water, or stock, to touch 
the bottom of the meat. Spread a layer of vegetables over 
the top of the meat and cut a piece of white paper a little 
larger than the top of the pan; brush this over with oil, 
butter, or dripping, and lay closely down over the meat 
and vegetables, so as to keep in all the steam. Put the cover 
in place and let simmer very gently until done; then remove 
the cover and paper, and brown the top of the meat in a 
hot oven. The time of cooking varies with the kind and 
quality of the meat. 



CHAPTER IV 

Processes and Terms Used in Cooking 

MEASURING 

In the careful cook's outfit scales are a necessity, but, as 
this item in so many households is considered non-essential, 
measures by cups and spoonfuls are as a rule indicated in the 
recipes. The cup referred to is invariably the "cooking- 
school" measuring cup, upon the side of which divisions in 
thirds and fourths are indicated. The cup is of proper size 
when it holds exactly half a pint, two gills, of liquid, or 
half a pound of granulated sugar, or butter. (See also Table 
of Weights and Measures, page 41.) A tablespoon holding 
half an ounce of sugar or butter, level measure, and a tea- 
spoon holding sixty drops of water are of proper size for the 
respective measurements. 

In all recipes where flour is used, unless otherwise stated, 
the flour is measured after sifting once. When flour is 
measured by cups, the cup is filled with a spoon and a level 
cup is meant. A tablespoonful, or a teaspoonful, of any 
designated material is a level spoonful of such material. 

Half a tablespoonful, or teaspoonful, is obtained by dividing 
a spoonful lengthwise of the spoon ; divide the half-spoonful 
crosswise, for quarters. A cup of liquid cannot be safely 
carried,as it is all the cup will hold; the same is true of a 
spoonful of liquid. 

WAYS OF COMBINING INGREDIENTS 

Stirring is done by moving a spoon or knife round and 
round, in ever widening circles, until the ingredients are 
thoroughly blended. 

Beating is done by cutting down with a spoon (or other 
utensil) from the top to the bottom of a ^ixtiu^e and bringing 

J9 



20 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the spoon up to the surface, then passing over and down again 
and thus turning the mixture over and over. The object 
is to combine air with the mixture and make it light. 

CUTTING AND FOLDING 

This term is usually applied to the process by which the 
whites of eggs, or cream, beaten stiff, may be incorporated 
into another mixture without the destruction and loss of air 
bubbles that have already been formed. Put the mixture, 
or ingredients, to be combined into a dish. With spoon 
or knife cut down to the bottom of the dish, turn, bring to 
the top and fold over the mixture thus brought to the sur- 
face. Repeat the process until the ingredients are completely 
blended. 

WHAT IS MEANT BY "TOSSING." "COOKING OVER HOT 

WATER," ETC. 

To "toss" is to move small articles about in the frying-pan, 
in which there is melted butter, or seasonings, that the 
articles may be uniformly covered with the butter, or season- 
ings. To secure this, shake the pan as in popping corn, or 
rapidly turn the articles over and over with a spoon or fork. 

COOKING OVER HOT WATER, OR DRY STEAMING 

The vessel in which food is thus cooked does not come in 
direct contact with the source of heat; boiling water inter- 
venes. The double-boiler is the proper utensil. 

To "poach" is "to cook, as eggs, by breaking them into 
a vessel of boiling water." 

SERVING AU GRATIN 

To serve au gratin is to serve a dish covered with cracker 
crumbs, buttered and browned in the oven. To prepare, 
with a silver fork mix one cup of cracker crumbs with one- 
fourth, or one-third a cup of melted butter; spread over the 
hot preparation, usually some cooked article mixed with a 
sauce — and set in a hot oven long enough to brown the 
crumbs. 



r 



LARDING, DAUBING, ETC. 21 

SERVING A LA JARDINIERE 

To serve h. la jardiniere is to serve with a mixture of several 
cooked vegetables usually cut small. 

A SALPICON 

A salpicon is a mixture of fruits in a flavored syrup, or 
of cooked fish, game, or meats, of one or more kinds, cut in 
cubes and mixed with bits of truffles, or mushrooms, in a rich 
creamy sauce. The latter may be served in patties, Swedish 
timbale cases, in tiny casseroles, or from a vol-au-vent. Or 
it may be used as the filling or centre of timbales, or inside a 
rice, or potato, border. A fruit salpicon is served in individual 
glasses, in a pineapple, or muskmelon shell, or in the peel of 
oranges, or grape-fruit. 

LARDING 

Cut the rind from a piece of fat salt pork two inches wide 
and four ifiches long ; cut slices one-fourth an inch, thick the 
same way as the rind down to the little bunch of fibres that 
separate the upper firm layer of pork from the softer layer 
below; cut each slice, crosswise, into match-like strips one- 
fourth an inch thick (lardoons). As soon as the lardoons 
are cut, put them where they will keep cool until ready to 
use.  Insert one end of the lardoon into the larding-needle and 
use this like any needle, taking stitches about three-eighths 
an inch deep and three- fourths an inch wide. When the 
needle and pork have been drawn through the flesh, cut off 
the pork, leaving a part in the meat with ends of equal length 
outside. In the same way take up as many stitches as are 
desired, about three-fourths an inch apart, inserting fresh 
lardoons into the needle as often as they are needed. 

DAUBING 

The flavour of a thick, dry piece of lean meat is often im- 
proved by making cuts through it from one side to the other 
and pressing into these cuts thick lardoons of fat salt pork 



22 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

(half an inch thick). This proc'ess is called daubing, and 
is used for beef k la mode, etc. 

BONING 

Boning is the removing of all bones from fish, fowl, or 
joint, leaving the flesh entire. Fish, fowl, a leg of mutton, 
a fore-quarter, or shoulder of mutton, lamb, or veal, and 
chops, are the pieces usually boned. Often fish are much 
more appetizing and sightly when boned. It is also an 
economical method of serving fish, as the bones, with such 
particles of flesh as adhere to them, seasoned with vegetables, 
produce good stock for basting, or for a sauce. In boning 
a bird or fowl, the flesh is removed from the frame, or bones 
in one piece. In boning birds and poultry, one of two objects 
is in view: either to retain the natural shape of the bird 
or to prepare the flesh for inclosing stuffing, to form a galantine. 

ROUX 

Roux (French for red) is a cooked preparation of butter 
and flour used for thickening gravy, sauces, and soups. The 
proportions of butter and flour are one ounce of butter and 
half an ounce of flour to one cup of liquid, for sauces, and 
one pint of liquid for soups ; by measure two level tablespoon- 
fuls, each, of butter and flour to one cup, or one pint of liquid. 
While these are the ordinary proportions, more flour, even 
a full ounce, for an ounce of butter is occasionally required, 
as when making sauce for croquettes and similar mixtures. 
And also when making a brown roux, or roux proper, as the 
flour in browning loses some of its thickening qualities. To 
prepare, melt the butter; when bubbling add the flour, mix 
well and leave on a slow fire, stirring occasionally until it 
becomes of a reddish brown, or mahogany color. 

This is roux, but in cookery we speak of it as brown roux. 
When the flour has cooked in the bubbling butter just long 
enough to burst the starch cells, rather less than five minutes, 
and without taking color, the preparation is called blonde 
roux. When a more highly flavoured roux is desired, cook 
a "faggot" with a slice of onion in the butter before adding 



SHAPING CROQUETTES. (See p 



iNED AND STUFFED F 



UTEN'SILS FOR MAKING SAUCES. (Ste pas.: i, 

led strainer,saucepan.d<mblc-lj..iliT,cup hnl.linii half a i 

whisk, wooder. spoon, tablL>sp,K,n tilled nith buuer. 



KITCHEN BOUQUET, ETC. 23 

the flour. Cool the roux before adding a hot liquid; a cold 
liquid may be added at once. Roux may be prepared and 
set aside for future use. This may be of advantage in the 
case of brown roux, but certainly it is not called for in the 
case of the blonde, as it is but five minutes' work to prepare 
the latter. 

COOKED FINE HERBS. (USED FOR PAUPIETTES, CHOPS, 

SAUCES, ETC.) 

I oz. of butter. (Stalks and other trimmings, or 

1 clove of garlic, fine chopped. whole mushrooms) 

2 oz. of shallot, fine chopped. 1-4 a cup, each, of glaze and white 
4 oz.of parsley, fine chopped. or brown sauce. 

4 oz. of mushrooms. 

Melt the butter, add the garlic and shallot, and cook with- 
out coloring two or three minutes; add the mushrooms, 
chopped fine, and stir and cook until the moisture has evap- 
orated, then add the parsley, and, if not to be used at once, 
also one-fourth a cup, each, of glaze and white, or brown, 
sauce, and simmer until quite consistent. 

FAGGOT OR KITCHEN BOUQUET 

For flavoring soups and sauces what is known as a faggot, 
or kitchen bouquet, is used. This commonly consists 
of a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, or sweet marjoram, and two 
or three cloves wrapped and tied within two or three* small 
sprigs of parsley. Yellow rind of lemon may be added. 
When seeds, as celery and pepper-corns, are used, the whole 
may be tied in a bit of cheesecloth. The object is to secure 
easy removal from the hot liquid. 

HOW TO ADD YOLKS OF EGGS TO SOUPS OR SAUCES 

In adding yolks of eggs to soups and sauces to secure 
richness or thickening (liaison), remove the sauce or soup 
from the fire, then mix a spoonful or two of the liquid with 
the yolks, previously beaten, and, when well-blended, add 
a little more of the liquid, mix and pour into the saucepan. 



24 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

If the egg does not look cooked, return to the fire a moment 
and stir without letting boil. 

SEASONING AND FLAVORING 

The use of onions in culinary preparations has ever been a 
much-mooted question. Though the more refined members of 
society have always placed a sweeping interdict upon them, 
their use to the extent, at least, that is indicated by the 
French soupcon, or suspicion, is of decided advantage. And 
really, there is no question that, even in larger measure, the 
flavor of onions is of genuine value in rendering fish, 
veal, and the cheaper cuts of beef savory. It is the savor 
of all savors beloved of the artisan, and oft and again renders 
some homely dish acceptable day after day. Parsley, when- 
ever it is possible, should be used in connection with onion. 
It is thought to counteract a tendency in some to the flat- 
ulency caused by the onion. It also sweetens the breath. 
Dried mushrooms, when the fresh are not to be had, mush- 
room or tomato catsup, the outer stalks and green leaves 
of celery, or celery seeds, sweet peppers, green or red, a bit of 
bay leaf, aromatic herbs, or a drop or two of tabasco sauce 
used judiciously, now and then, will lend savor or 
piquancy to many an otherwise plain dish. It is often the 
little pleasing surprise in flavor that starts the flow of the 
digestive fluids and puts the tired workman (whether of 
hand or brain) in genial mood. The simple art of judicious 
flavoring is one that every woman with a family to feed 
would do well to cultivate. 

The German housewife adds a sprig of mint to green peas 
while they are cooking, also mace or nutmeg to many a meat 
and vegetable dish. A little mace in the custard used as a 
garnish for soups, and in such delicately flavored dishes 
as chicken, or sweetbread timbales, often changes flat and 
insipid productions into most acceptable plats. Delicate 
meats and fish for salads are much improved by being allowed 
to stand some time before serving in a French dressing — a 
mixture of oil and acid. (See Salads, page 353). Tough, 
dry, or tasteless meat can be improved by letting stand some 



EGGING AND CRUMBING. 25 

time before cooking in a marinade. Mustard should be used 
with care. It bites too soon. 

HOW TO EXTRACT ONION JUICE 

Cut a thin slice from one end of the onion, then press against 
a lemon grater, giving a slight rotary motion ; turn the grater, 
and the juice will flow from one comer. A lemon squeezer 
kept on purpose for onions is also useful. 

TO EGQ*AND-BREAD-CRUMB FOR FRYING 

THE CRUMBS 

Separate the crust of bread from the crumb and dry each 
separately in the warming-oven, without letting the crumb 
take color; pass through a meat-chopper and a sieve. Use the 
brown crumbs for the first coating, and the white for the 
outside. If a very delicate color be desired, use pieces of 
undried bread, and pass through a colander; the larger quan- 
tity of moisture in the fresh crumbs causes the article thus 
covered to assume a more delicate hue. Season the crumbs 
before using with salt and pepper, or with powdered sugar, 
as required. Cracker crumbs are not often desirable, as 
they give a pasty crust. Lady-finger crumbs, or powdered 
macaroons are often used for crumbing sweet dishes. 

THE EGG 

The whole egg is preferable; but the white or yolk alone 
may be used. The white, being almost pure albumen, gives 
a tough crust, and the yolk alone, which contains consider- 
able fat, a more tender crust. When for convenience the 
white is used alone, add to each portion of two eggs half 
a tablespoonful, each, of oil and water, beat together 
thoroughly, but not to a foam, and pass through a sieve. 
When whole eggs, or yolks alone, are used, omit the oil, 
adding water equal to the volume of egg. 

THE ARTICLE 

Have the seasoned crumbs upon the meat-board; roll the 
articles to be coated in the crumbs, then hold them, one at 



26 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

a time, on a broad-bladed knife over the egg, and with a very- 
soft brush dipped into the egg brush every part of the object. 
Or, if preferred, for croquette mixtures use a spoon and pour 
the egg over the article, moistening every part; then drop 
from the knife into the crumbs and roll on the board until 
completely and evenly covered with crumbs; let stand a 
little before, frying. Fine-chopped parsley may be added 
to the crumbs, in case of savory articles. 

TO BREAD-CRUMB A LA MILANAISE 

Dip the article to be breaded in melted butter, then in 
equal parts of grated Parmesan cheese and white crumbs; 
finish with egg and crumbs. 

TO BREAD-CRUMB A LA DIABLE 

Season with salt, pepper, and mustard, or spread with 
"made" mustard; dip in crumbs, then in egg and again in 
crumbs. Used for mutton chops, either for broiling or frying, 
also for cooked chicken, or turkey legs, to be reheated by 
broiling and frying. 

TO BREAD FOR BROILING 

Brush or coat the article with oil or melted butter, then 
roll in white crumbs. 

r 

TO BREAD FISH WITH FLOUR FOR FRYING 

Dip the fish in milk, then in flour, seasoned with salt and 
pepper. 

TO SHAPE CROQUETTE MIXTURE 

When the croquette mixture is cold and firm, roll with the 
hands into balls, then gently roll each ball in turn in crumbs, 
carefully covering each part with crumbs and giving to the 
ball such shape as is desired. The easiest shape for a be- 
ginner to attempt is that of a cylinder. To secure this shape, 
lightly roll the ball back and forth upon the crumbs, press- 
ing upon it gently to lengthen, then take up lightly and drop 
the end gently on the board, turn and drop the other end 



MARINADE FOR VENISON, ETC. 27 

upon the board, repeating the process. Let stand to stiffen 
a little, then cover with the egg. Roll at once in the crumbs 
a second time, rolling and shaping as before, to insure per- 
fection in shape and smoothness of crust. Let stand an hour 
before frying. Croquette mixtures made of fish or lobster 
are usually given a half-heart or cutlet shape. To secure 
this flatten the ball with a broad-bladed knife, or the hand, 
making one end pointed and the other round; round out one 
side and curve the other by pressing with the fingers. Insert 
a short piece of macaroni into the pointed end of a fish chop 
before cooking. After cooking cover with a paper frill; 
or, omit the macaroni and insert a sprig of parsley after the 
chop is fried. The small claws of the lobster are inserted 
in lobster chops, or cutlets, after frying. A tiny, paper aigrette 
is used for croquettes made cork-shaped. 

FAT FOR FRYING, ETC. 

Cut cooked or uncooked fat in small pieces ; if it be uncooked 
let stand twenty-four hours in cold water, changing the 
watei* once in the period ; [this will reduce the flavor. When 
ready to cook drain and add a cup of milk for each two 
pounds of fat, and cook very slowly, until the fat is clear, 
the pieces are light-brown in color, andj^there is no sound 
of cooking. With a wooden spoon loosen, but do not stir, 
the fat from the bottom of the kettle; strain through a cloth, 
then press the remaining fat from the piecJes for use as fat 
of second quality. 

COOKED MARINADE FOR VENISON, MUTTON, ETC. 

I quart of water. a tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I pint of vinegar. 6 sprigs of parsley. 

21-3 tablespoonfuls of salt. i tablespoonful of mixed herbs. 

I tablespoonf ul of pepper-coms. 2 onions, sliced. 

A blade of mace. i carrot, sliced. 

Put all the ingredients over the fire; let boil up once, then 
simmer gently half an hour. Use at once, or strain, and 
store in fruit jars for future use. In practice let the meat 



28 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

stand in the marinade one to four days, according to the 
season of the year, turning the same in the liquid occasionally, 

MARINADE FOR CHOPS, FILLETS OF FISH, ETC 

Brush over the articles with olive oil, sprinkle with lemon 
juice, then pile in twos, with a sliced onion and strips of green 
or red pepper between. Let stand over night, or several 
hours. If the meat be tough, use the oil more generously, 
and substitute vinegar for lemon juice. Cooked meats, or- 
fish to be served in a sauce, are often much improved, if let 
stand an hour or two in a mixture of equal parts of oil, lemon 
juice, half a teaspoonful of salt to a pint of material, a dash 
of paprika, and a little onion juice, if the latter be agreeable. 
Drain before adding to the sauce. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUPS 

Cut the bread in slices from one-fourth to three-eighths 
an inch thick; remove the crusts, and cut in small cubes, 
or in finger-lengths ; then saut^ in hot butter, or spread with 
butter and brown in the oven, turning frequently that all 
sides may be evenly browned. 

CROUTONS FOR A GARNISH 

Croutons may be used as a garnish for scalloped oysters, 
or spinach for meat, or fish, in a sauce ; triangular pieces, acute 
angled, or those with a broad base, are the choice; after shap* 
ing prepare as other croutons. 

BREAD CROUSTADES 

Bread croustades are croutons fashioned to hold a pur^e. 
of some kind, or some cooked article, cut small and mixed 
with a sauce. These may be stamped in rounds, diamonds, 
or other shapes, with cutters made for the purpose. The 
slice of bread varies in thickness, according to the service. 
After the bread is in the required shape, with a pointed knife 
cut a line around the top of the slice about half an inch from 
the edge and carefully remove the crumb to form a receptacle. 



CROUSTADES 29 

The walls should be half an inch thick. Brown as croutons 
for soup, or by frying in deep fat» 

PASTRY CROUSTADES 

Roll trimmings from puff paste into a sheet one-fourth 
an inch thick ; then with a cutter dipped in hot water stamp 
out pieces of paste; heart, diamond, and round shapes are 
generally used. With a small round cutter dipped in hot 
water, score the centre quite deeply, but do not cut through 
the paste. Bake as any puff-paste; then remove the centres 
and fill. Small patty cases are often used for this purpose. 

POTATO CROUSTADES 

Use plain mashed potato, or Duchess potato mixture. 
(See page 291.) Spread the potato evenly to the depth of half 
an inch on a buttered baking-sheet; brush over with yolk 
of egg> beaten and diluted with a little milk. When cold 
cut the potato diagonally in two directions, to make diamond- 
shaped pieces about three inches in length, or cut out with 
a cutter. Score these diagonally, to present small diamond 
shapes, then reheat by browning in a hot oven. To serve, 
remove a bit from the centre of each and place in and above 
this a teaspoonful of peas, asparagus, or fine-chopped meat, 
in a thick sauce. This provides a suitable way of serving 
potato and peas in a fish course. 

RICE CROUSTADES 

1 cup of rice. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a cup of tomato pur^e. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

3 cups of chicken broth. Egg and bread crumbs. 

Parboil and rinse the rice. Return to the saucepan with 
the pur^, broth, salt and butter, and when boiling cook 
over hot water, until the rice is tender and the liquid is ab- 
sorbed. Then pack into one large mould, into small dariole 
moulds, or muffin rings placed on a baking-sheet, all well 
buttered. Set aside to cool. When cold, egg-and-bread- 
crumb ; then with a sharp-pointed knife or small cutter make 
an incision around each croustade, leaving a rim about one- 



30 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

fourth an inch wide. Fry to a golden brown in deep fat; 
then remove the piece in the centre of the tops, scoop out the 
centres and fill with cooked material, cut in cubes and heated 
in a sauce. 

BLANCHED RICE 

To a cup of rice add a quart of cold water, let boil five 
minutes after the boiling point is reached, then wash and 
drain on a sieve. 

BLANCHING FRESH VEGETABLES 

.Many vegetables are improved in appearance and made 
more delicate in flavor if they be blanched (parboiled and 
drained) before the cooking proper is begun. Set; the vege- 
tables, properly cleaned, to cook in plenty of boiling water; 
let cook from five to fifteen or more minutes, according to 
size, etc., drain and rinse with cold water. Then cook to finish 
as desired. 

BEATING EGGS 

Without taking into consideration the fact that eggs enrich 
mixtures, they are added either to thicken a mixture, or to 
thicken and render a mixture light. Lightness is not always 
desirable. When eggs are added simply to thicken a mixture, 
they should be beaten only until the whites and yolks are 
well mixed, i.e., without separating the whites from the yolks, 
and until a spoonful of the mixture can be taken up and held in 
the spoon. A spoon, fork, whisk, or Dover egg-beater may 
be used. When the eggs are added to insure lightness the 
yolks and whites should be beaten separately, — the yolks until 
thick and lemon-coloured, and the whites until dry. 

Various textures may be given to the whites of eggs in 
beating, by a judicious selection of the utensil used. If a 
close texture be desired, choose the Dover egg-beater; a 
looser texture is insured by the confectioner's whisk, and a 
still looser texture, by the flat-beater. The reason for this 
lies in the fact that the whisk and flat-beater carry into the 
mixture more air, half the utensil at each motion being first 



UTENSILS FOR BEATING EGGS. (See p 



DOUBLE CREAM BEATEN SOLID WITH KGO BEATER, 



BEATING EGGS AND CkEAM 31 

in the air and then in the egg, while the Dover beater is 
immersed in the egg until the egg is beaten. 

In using the Dover egg-beater, let it rest lightly in the bowl, 
l)eating slowly at first, then increasing in rapidity. To beat 
well eggs should be cold and fresh ; a few grains of salt may 
be added to the whites to hasten the process. 

BEATING CREAM 

Cream from milk that has stood twelve hours is called 
single, thin, or strawberry cream. This cream, as a rule, 
cannot be beaten stiff with Dover egg-beater, or whisk. Single 
cream, after being chilled, is frothed with a cream, or whip- 
chum. This is a tin cylinder, with perforations in and near 
the bottom, in which a perforated dasher is worked up and 
down. The first froth is stirred down, as the bubbles are 
large; the froth is now removed, as it rises, and drained on a 
sieve. The cream that drips through may be whipped a 
second time. Set the frothed cream aside to chill and stiffen. 
When this cream is to be used as garnish for a dish, it should 
be sweetened and flavoured before beating. When it is 
used to give lightness, as in Bavarian cream, etc., it should 
be folded, not stirred, into the other ingredients. 

Cream from milk that has stood twenty-four hours is known 
as double cream. This cream, when chilled, may be beaten 
stiff with the Dover egg-beater in a very few seconds; if 
beaten a second too long, it turns to butter. This gives a 
firm, fine-grained cream, and is used whenever a rich, stiff 
cream is reqtiired, as an addition to a salad dressing, for the 
filling of cream cakes and eclairs, for the filling of a bomb 
glac^ (when no gelatine mixture is to be added), or to force 
through a pastry-bag and tube for a garnish. Double cream 
may be diluted with milk and frothed with the whip-chum, 
as single cream. As cream varies so much in quality, it 
cannot always be diluted with the same quantity of milk. It 
could, however, scarcely be called double cream, if it would 
not stand the addition of an equal quantity of milk; and, 
oftentimes, before the whip that rises is of a sufficiently light 
and fitiffy texture, two and a half cups of milk to each cup 



32 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of cream will be required. A good way is to begin by diluting 
in the proportion of one cup of milk to one cup of cream, and 
then add milk until the texture is right. 

THE PASTRY BAG AND TUBES 

In filling moulds evenly and disposing soft materials, 
as chou paste, lady-finger mixture, purees, mayonnaise dressing 
and whipped cream, in small shapely portions, the best results 
can be obtained by the use of the pastry-bag and tubes. 
Bags of duck or rubber cloth are purchasable, but they can 
be easily made at home and at less than one-fourth the ex- 
pense of boughten goods. Tubes of different shapes and sizes 
can be bought singly or in sets. A threaded ring, which fits 
into the smaller end of the bag, and to which the several 
tubes can be attached, accompanies the sets. Single tubes 
are not provided with thread or groove. The bag is made to 
fit the tubes. 

THE BAG 

Fold a square of ticking, duck, or rubber cloth, to form a 
triangle; stitch and fell one of the open sides; cut off the 
small end of tlie bag thus formed, to make an opening, into 
which the shank, or tube, inserted at the larger end may be 
fitted closely; hem this end, also the top of the bag. 

USE OF BAG AND TUBE 

Fix the tube in place; roll outward the upper part of the 
bag so as to put the mixture just above the tube without 
smearing the sides of the bag. Fill the bag about one-third 
full. With the right hand carefully twist the bag above the 
mixture, guide the tube with the left hand, and force out the 
mixture by continuing tlic twisting, at the same time using 
pressure, with the right hand. To form a star, hold the bag 
in vertical position and press out a sufficient quantity of the 
mixture. Separate the tube from the material by pressing 
the tube downwards slightly and raising it quickly. For 
other designs hold the bag at other angles, between the vertical 
and a horizontal position. 



CARAMEL, BLANCHING NUTS 33 

CARAMEL FOR FLAVORING CU8TARDS, ETC. 

Stir the quantity of sugar needed in a small saucepan 
over the fire until the sugar melts. Stir constantly and pour 
as soon as melted into the liquid to be flavored. The hand 
must be* protected while the liquids are combined, as on 
account of the intense heat of the caramel much steam will 
be generated. Remove the pan from the stove often, while the 
sugar 'is melting, to avoid overheating. The caramel may 
also be poured on to an oiled marble slab, or a platter; when 
cooled a little remove, and when quite cold pound fine in a 
mortar, then add to the hot liquid to be flavored. 

LINING A MOULD WITH CARAMEL 

Turn the liquid caramel into a charlotte russe, or other 
mould, then, using a holder, turn the mould round and round 
letting the caramel run all over the inside of the mould. The 
mould must be handled quickly, as the caramel soon hardens 

CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUPS, ETC. 

Let the melted sugar cook until it is quite dark, then add 
an equal quantity of boiling water and let simmer a minute 
or two. Store in fruit-jar or bottle. It will keep indefinitely 
and without sealing. 

BLANCHING ALMONDS, PISTACHIOS OR ENGLISH 

WALNUTS 

Cover the nuts with boiling water and let stand over the fire 
five or ten minutes, until the skin easily slips from the meat 
under the pressure of the fingers; then drain and keep covered 
With cold water, while the skins are being removed. Dry 
in the heater or open air. A small pointed knife will be 
needed to detach the skin from walnuts. The water about 
pistachio nuts needs to boil a moment or two, as the nuts do 
not blanch easily. 

CHOPPED ALMONDS 

Chop when partly dry, and sift through a sieve; chop again 
what remains on the sieve and sift as before. 



34 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



SHREDDED ALMONDS 

Dry freshly-peeled almonds in a cloth and cut at once into 
shreds, lengthwise. 

ALMOND MILK, FOR CURRIES, BLANC-MANGE, ETC. 

Pound in a mortar half a pound of almonds, with a few 
spoonfuls of cold water, until the meats are reduced to 
a fine paste; dilute with a pint of milk, or water, and 
strain through a cheese-cloth, pressing out all that will pass 
through. 

POUNDING ALMONDS 

Mix the almonds with white of egg, or liquid, and pound 
in the mortar. Or mix with sugar and put through a meat- 
cutter three or four times. After forcing the nuts through 
the chopper the first time, adjust the machine to cut, or 
crush as fine as possible. 

SHELLING AND BLANCHING CHESTNUTS 

With a sharp-pointed knife slit each shell across one side. 
Cook one minute in boiling water, drain and let dry. Add a 
teaspoonful of butter for each pint of nuts, and stir and shake 
over the fire, or in the oven three or four minutes; then remove 
the shell and skin together. Keep the nuts covered with a 
cloth, in the meantime, as they shell more easily when hot. 

PREPARING LEMONS FOR USE 

Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth without rubbing. If 
only the flavor or zest is called for, pare off the thin yellpw 
rind, remove every trace of white, and chop very fine. If 
a lemon grater be used, carefully avoid the bitter white skin. 
To keep lemons, wipe carefully, wrap each, separately, in clean, 
drv tissue paper and let stand in a draft of air. 

WASHING CURRANTS 

Set the currants in a sieve in a deep pan of lukewarm 
water, and rub them between the hands. This loosens the 



GLAZING BREAD AND ROLLS 3$ 

stems, which sink in the water. Renew the water several 
times. Dry the currants before using them. 

PREPARING ANCHOVIES 

Rinse the anchovies in several waters (cold) to remove the 
salt, then let stand in cold water ten minutes or longer. Ancho- 
vies of inferior quality need to remain several hours in water. 
Milk may be used instead of water. With the fingers remove 
the fins from the back, and, holding the fish by the tail, pull 
into halves, discarding the backbone and rear fin. Then 
wipe or drain carefully, and use according to recipes. 

FRINGING CELERY FOR A GARNISH 

Cut the stalks into pieces two inches long. Beginning 
on the round side and at one end, cut down half an inch, mak- 
ing as many thin slices as possible. Turn the stalk, and cut 
these slices, in thp opposite direction, as thin as possible. Cut 
the opposite end in the same way. Set the pieces aside in 
very cold, acidulated water, and, in a short time, many of the 
shreds will curl ov^r and meet in the centre of the stalk. 

TO GLAZE BREAD AND ROLLS . 

1-2 an oz. of cornstarch. i pint of boiling water. 

Mix the cornstarch with cold water and when smooth pour 
on the boiling water. Apply with a brush, when the bread is 
nearly baked, then return to the oven, to finish the baking, 
repeating the process once or twice. 

SPICED PEPPER FOR STUFFING 

1-4 an ounce of thyme. 1-2 an ounce of cloves. 

1-4 an ouflce of summer savory. 1-4 an ounce of black-pepper 

berries 
1-4 an ounce of sweet marjoram 1-8 an ounce of Nepaul pepper 

berries. 
1-2 an ounce of nutmeg, or mace, if desired. 

Pound together in a mortar until reduced to a powder, 
pass through a fine sieve, bottle and cork securely. 



CHAPTER V 

Cook's Time-Table. Tables of Proportions, 

Weights and Measures 

In preparing a meal it is quite essential to know accurately 
the time required for cooking the different viands, otherwise 
one dish may become cold, while the cook is waiting for the 
completion of another that is to accompany it. With the 
aid of an oven thermometer, or heat-indicator, one can by 
actual experience soon learn almost to a certainty the length 
of time required to bake most articles. This is especially 
true in case of bread, pastry, cake, puddings and custards, 
the ingredients of which may be considered as known quanti- 
ties. More or less doubt exists in regard to the length of time re- 
quired for the cooking of animal and vegetable substances; 
for with these tenderness, one of the mo§t important things 
aimed at in the cooking, will depend upon variable conditions, 
as, in animal substances, age and habits of life, and in vegetables 
upon age, soil, and season in which they are grown, and upon 
the length of time passed since they were gathered. 

In the tables given below, the minimum and maximum 
times are given in which the article is to be cooked at a suitable 
temperature. When articles of same weight vary in thick- 
ness, the thicker will require the longer period. The time 
depends not so much upon weight as upon the extent of 
surface presented to the heat. For instance, a long thin 
fish will require ten or fifteen minutes less time in baking than 
a short, thick middle cut of salmon of the same weight. As 
an aid to best results in baking, an oven thermometer, or 
'*heat indicator," is of great value. The heat indicator 
shows the temperature of the oven, but to secure and keep 
this temperature, the condition of the fire-box, when coal or 
wood is used, must be studied with care. The matter is 

36 



HEAT INDICATOR 



37 



much more simple when gas or electricity is the fuel. When 
a dish is ready for the oven, though the index points to the 
proper temperature for the cooking of that dish, if the fire 
be spent, — the coal showing by a white line near the edges 
that it has lost its vitality, — the temperature will fall rapidly, 
and the addition of coal will not help the matter before the 
article, be it cake, or some delicate confection, is utterly 
mined. Then, too, if the fire be new and fierce, unless it 
be regulated with the nicest care, the heat is apt to become 
too severe. The indicator does not regulate the fire, but 
shows the condition of the oven as far as heat is concerned. 
But by judgment and experience the exact temperature for 
the baking of each dish can be determined, and the regulation 
of the fire to maintain this temperature be secured. The 
figure gives a general idea of 
an oven thermometer, or heat- 
indicator. 

For instance, when there is 
no fire in the range the hand 
points to 6'. 

At the temperature suitable 
for putting bread into the oven 
the hand points to 12. After 
the first fifteen minutes the 
hand should move gradually 
backward half-way to three, 
where it should remain until 
the bread is baked. To sear over the outside of meat, 
or to cook wild ducks and small birds the hand should 
point to about 9. After the first half-hour roasts like 
beef and mutton should cook with the index in the 
vicinity of 12, back of it rather than beyond it. Custards 
and articles poached in water below the boiling point need 
a temperature indicated at about 2. With a little experience 
one can bake different varieties of cake in succession in an 
oven whose heat is gauged to fit each case to a nicety. 

In this connection it may be noted that a coal fire is kept 
in good condition when it is so kept that it can be quickly 




38 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

regulated to meet the demands made upon it. Oftentimes, 
however, it is more economical, when a hot fire is wanted 
for a short time only, to keep the fire dormant, as it were, and 
use for the time being a gas or oil-range, and then transfer 
the article to the coal-range that has been kept at a moderate 
heat. But this is not always practicable. 

COOK'S TIME-TABLE 

ROASTING OR BAKING MEATS AND FISH 

Beef, ribs or loin rare, per pound 8 to lo minutes. 

Beef, ribs, or loin well done, per pound 12 to 1 6 minutes. 

Beef, ribs, rolled, rare, per pound 12 to 15 minutes. 

Beef, ribs, rolled, well done, per pound 12 to 15 minutes. 

Beef, fillet, rare 20 to 30 minutes. 

Mutton, leg, rare, per pound 10 minutes. 

Mutton, leg, well done, per pound 14 minutes. 

Mutton, saddle, rare, without flank, per pound 9 minutes. 

Mutton, loin, rare, per pound 9 minutes. 

Mutton, forequarter, stuffed, per pound 15 to 25 minutes. 

Lamb, well done, per pound 15 to 18 minutes. 

Veal, well done, per pound 18 to 20 minutes. 

Pork, well done, per poimd 20 minutes. 

Venison, rare, per pound 10 minutes. 

Chicken, per pound 15 or more minutes. 

Turkey, 8 to 10 pounds 3 hours. 

Goose, 8 to 10 pounds 2 hours, or more 

Duck (domestic) i hoiu*, or more. 

Duck (wild) 15 to 30 minutes. 

Grouse About 30 minutes. 

Small Birds 1 5 to 20 minutes 

Pigeons (potted, or en casserole) 2 to 4 hours. 

Ham 4 to 6 hours. 

Fish, whole, as blue-fish, salmon, etc i hour, or more. 

Small fish and fillets 20 to 30 minutes. 

Baked beans with pork 6 to 8 hours. 

BROILING 

Steak, I inch thick 4 to 10 minutes. 

Steak, I 1-2 inches thick 8 to 15 minutes. 

Lamb, or Mutton Chops. 6 to lo minutes. 



COOK'S TIME TABLE 39 

Quails 8 to 10 minutes. 

Quails in paper cases 10 to 12 minutes. 

Squabs 10 to 1 2 minutes. 

Spring Chicken 20 minutes. 

Shad, blue-fish, etc 15 to 30 minutes. 

Slices of fish 1 2 to 1 5 minutes. 

Small Fish, trout, etc 5 to 1 2 minutes. 

FRYING 

Whitebait, croquettes, fish-balls i minute. 

Muffins, fritters and doughnuts 3 to 5 minutes. 

Breaded Chops . 5 to 8 minutes. 

Fillets of Fish 4 to 6 minutes. 

Smelts, brook trout, etc 3 to 5 minutes. 

BOILING MEAT AND FISH 

Fresh Beef 4 to 6 hours. 

Corned Beef (rib, or flank) 4 to 7 hours. 

Corned Beef, fancy brisket 5 to 8 hours. 

Corned Tongue 3 to 4 hours. 

Leg, or Shoulder of Mutton 3 1-2 to 5 hours. 

Leg, or Shoulder of Lamb 2to3 hours. 

Turkey, per pound 15 to 18 minutes. 

Fowl, 4 to 5 pounds 2 to 4 hours. 

Chicken, 3 poimds itoii-2 hours. 

Ham 4 to 6 hours. 

Lobster 25 to 30 minutes. 

Codfish and haddock, per pound 6 minutes. 

Halibut, whole, or thick piece, per poimd 15 minutes. 

Blue-fish, bass, etc., per pound 10 minutes. 

Salmon, whole, or thick cut 10 to 1 5 minutes. 

Small fish 6 to 8 minutes. 

Clams and oysters 3 to 5 minutes. 

Braised Meats 3 to 5 hours. 

BOILING OF VEGETABLES, COFFEE, ETC. 

Asparagus 20 to 25 minutes. 

Beans, string, or shell i to 2 hours. 

Beets, new 45 minutes to 1 hour. 

Beets, old 4 to 6 hours. 

Beet Greens i hour, or longer. 

Brussels Sprouts 1 5 to 20 minutes. 



40 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cabbage 30 to 80 minutes. 

Carrots i hour, or longer. 

Caidiflower 20 to 30 minutes. 

Celery 2 hours, or longer. 

Com ., 10 to 20 minutes. 

Macaroni 20 to 60 minutes. 

Onions 45 minutes to 2 hours. 

Oyster Plant 45 to 60 minutes. 

Parsnips 30 to 45 minutes. 

Peas 20 to 60 minutes. 

Potatoes, white 20 to 30 minutes. 

Potatoes, sweet 15 to 25 minutes. 

Rice 20 to 30 minutes. 

Squash 20 to 30 minutes. 

Spinach 15 to 20 minutes. 

Tomatoes, stewed .' 15 to 20 minutes. 

Turnips 30 to 45 minutes. 

Coffee 3 to 5 minutes. 

BAKING OF BREAD, CAKE, CUSTARDS AND PUDDINGS 

Loaf Bread 40 to 60 minutes. 

Rolls, biscuit 10 to 30 minutes. 

Muffins, yeast about 30 minutes. 

Muffins, baking powder 20 to 25 minutes. 

Sponge Cake, loaf 45 to 60 minutes. 

Plain Loaf Cake 30 to 90 minutes. 

Layer Cake 15 to 20 minutes. 

Fruit Cake 2, or 3 hours. 

Small Cakes 1 5 to 25 minutes. 

Custards 20 minutes to 1 hour. 

Steamed Brown-Bread 3 hour%. 

Steamed Puddings i to 3 hours. 

Pie Crust 30 to 45 minutes. 

Potatoes 30 to 45 minutes. 

Scalloped and au Gratin Dishes 10 to 20 minutes. 

Timbales About 20 minutes. 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS 

I measure of liquid to i meastire of flour for pour batters. 
I measure of liquid to 2 measures of flour for drop batters. 
I measure of liquid to 3 measxu'es of flotu* for dough. 



TABLE OF PROPORTIONS, ETC. 41 

1-3 to 2 or more cakes of compressed yeast softened in i^a cup of 

water to i pint of liquid. 
1-2 a cup of liquid yeast to i pint of liquid. 

1 teaspoonful of soda and 4 teUfliiifittiMB of cream of tartar to i quart 
of flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder to i cup of floiu*. 
I teaspoonful of soda to i pint of thick sotu- milk. 
I teaspoonful of soda to i cup of molasses. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt to i quart of milk for custards. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt to i cup, or i teaspoonful to i quart of sauce, 

or soup. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of salt to i pint of flour. 
I teaspoonful of flavoring extract for a plain cake. 
I teaspoonful of flavoring extract to i quart of custard, or cream. 
I tablespoonful of flavoring extract to i quart of mixture to be 

frozen. 
?-3 a cup, or less of sugar to a quart of milk for custards, etc. 
I cup of sugar to i quart of milk or cream for cream ice. 
I cup of sugar for each dozen of yolks used in cream ice. 
4 eggs to I quart of milk for plain cup custard. 
6 to 8 eggs to I quart of milk for moulded custards. 
1-4 a package, or half an oimce of gelatine to scant pint of liquid. 

3 cups of water, more of milk, or stock, to i cup of rice. 

I ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of butter, 1-2 oimce (2 tablespoonfuls) of 

flour to I cup of liquid for sauce. 
I ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of butter, 1-2 ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of 

flour to I pint of liquid for soups. 

1 cup of cooked meat, or fish cut in cubes to 3-4, or i whole cup of 
sauce. 

Meat from 3 1-2-pound chicken equals about i pint, or i potmd. 

TABLES OP WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

4 teaspoonfuls of liquid equal i tablespoonful. 

4 tablespoonfuls of liquid •' 1-2 gill, or 1-4 a cup 

1-2 a cup equals i gill. 

2 gills equal i cup. 

2 cups ** I pint. 

2 pints (4 cups) " I quart. 

4 cups of liquid '* i quart. 

4 cups of flotu" " I poimd, or i quart. 

2 cups of butter, solid " x pound. 



4^ 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



1-2 a cup of butter, solid equals 1-4 a pound, 4 oz. 

2 cups of granulated sugar equal i pound. 

2 1-2 cups of powdered sugar " i pound. 

I pint of milk, or water equals i pound. 

1 pint of chopped meat (solid) " i pound. 

10 eggs (without shells) equal i |>ound. 

8 eggs, with shells 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. . 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour 

4 tablespoonfuls of coffee 

I tablespoonful of liquid 



I pound. 

I ounce. 

,2 ounces, or 1-4 a cup. 

I oiuice. 

I ounce. 

I ounce. 

1-2 ounce. 



PART II 

CHAPTER I 

Beverages 

" Water, water eveiywhere, nor any drop to drink." 

— Ancient Mariner, Coleridge. 

" O Mirth and Innocence ! O Milk and Water f 
Ye happy mixture of more happy days !" 

— Byron 

WATER 

'^ATER is that which slakes thirst and replaces the fluid loss 
of the body (Hoy); while food is that which replaces the solid 
loss of the body. While water and food would seem to be 
two separate and distinct compounds, water, in reality, is 
one of the largest (in amount) components in food and is 
rightfully classed as one of the Five Food Principles. The 
primal office of water is the slaking of thirst: thirst is the 
outward and visible sign that water is needed to carry on the 
functions of the body, to eliminate waste and to carry nutritive 
material where it is needed. By its evaporation on the surface 
water also regulates the temperature of the body. It is 
often said that those who drink water freely take on flesh. 
Water is not a nutrient, though it enters into the composition 
of every bodily tissue, but when water is imbibed freely and 
at the proper time the functions of elimination and nutrition 
are generally well carried out, and a condition of health is 
noted. Those who drink little water are liable to the for- 
mation of waste products faster than they are removed. 
Four pints of water are required daily by the average adult, 
less than one-third of which is supplied in food. Many an 
individual who rises in a languid state in the morning need 
seek for no other relief than in a glass of water on retiring 

43 



^ I 



44 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

at night. This washes the waste products into the proper 
eliminating channels and insures a fresh and vigorous con- 
dition of body in the morning. The remedial effects of hot 
water are well known. Water, either hot or cold, preferably 
hot, is also of advantage, if it be taken upon rising, or at least 
an hour before eating; thus taken it washes out the stomach, 
and prepares it to receive food. Taken just at the meal 
time, before the lining of the stomach has time to absorb it, 
digestion is impeded by the weakening of the digestive fltiids. 

PURE DRINKING WATER ESSENTIAL 

Water is a solvent as well as a carrier, and in this fact much 
danger lies. In its passage over or through the earth water 
may take up organic and inorganic matter that is detrimental 
to health, as when it comes in contact with sewage, which 
is liable to contain germs of disease. Often then this question 
of drinking-water is the hinge on which the whole subject 
of health turns. Whatever a family, or an institution, has 
become habituated to is taken for granted to be all right; 
but in the country, where sewers are unknown, the nearness 
of a cesspool or the stable-yard is a constant menace to 
health. Indeed, in some soils, contiguity plays but a small 
part in the matter, for a well often drains a larger surface 
than is generally realized. 

A deep well, properly situated, where the rainfall, carrying 
organic matter, must be filtered through earth and stone to 
reach its level, would seem to offer a water that one might 
drink with safety; but this is a subject that must be given 
more than passing attention. Who would willingly take 
the chances of a water-borne typhoid case, or the listless 
inertia of malarial poisoning, as the result of a summer's outing. 
City water taken from pure sources and filtered through 
sand-beds should be reasonably pure. When doubt as to 
its purity exists, boiling is the remedy, since almost all germs 
of disease that are likely to be found in water are killed by 
the application of heat at the boiling point. Filters for 
home use need the most exact and painstaking attention 
daily, or the water passing through them is made more impure. 



TEA AND TEA MAKING 4S 

Water from the hot- water faucet, be it needless to add, is not 
suitable for drinking or cooking purposes. 

TEA 

" Indeed, Madam, your ladyship is very sparing of your tea: I pro- 
test the last I took was no more than water bewitched." — Swift. 

COMPOSITION OP AVERAGE BLACK TEA, (CHURCH) 

In loo parts there are: water 8.0, albuminoids 17.5, theine 3.2, 
tannin 17.5, chlorophyl and resin 4.5, essential oil 0.4, minor extrac- 
tives 8.6, cellulose, etc. 34.0, mineral matter 6.3. 

A cup of tea infusion has little or no nutritive value, but 
it increases respiratory action and incites the brain to greater 
activity. The stimulating effects of tea upon the nervous 
system are due to the essential oil and theine : the tannin pro- 
duces astringency. Tea was at first used medicinally, and 
was not indulged in as a beverage until the close of the seven- 
teenth century. "The first brewers of tea sat down to eat 
the leaves with butter and salt. " The only tea-gardens in 
the United States are at Pinehurst, S. C. Here tea culture 
is successfully carried on. The tea is shipped in closely 
sealed gilt-colored tin boxes containing pounds, or fractions 
thereof. Black and green teas are made from the same plants, 
but each is cured by a different process. Gunpowder is 
the name given to the finest green tea, pekoe to the finest 
black, both being made from the "first pickings." In pick- 
ing tea for these varieties only the tips of the short and tender 
leaves are taken. Flowery pekoe is made entirely from the 
unexpanded leaf bud, so young as to be entirely covered with 
down. If the first expanded leaf be included, it makes first 
and second "Souchong." 

Tea is for those who have passed the boundary line of 
youth; stimulants are not needed by the young, and are 
positively harmful to them. Rightfully prepared and used, 
both tea and coffee, on account of the sense of comfort and 
the mildly exhilarating influence, which they impart, may be 
considered beneficial to the race. Improperly made and 



46 PPIACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

drank to excess, they are one of the chief sources of many of 
the minor atid chronic ills of mankind. 

The essential oil and theine of tea are the desirable elements ; 
the tannin which by hardening albumen interferes with the 
process of digestion, and which is also an astringent, is to 
be avoided. The one is avoided and the other secured by 
the manner in which tea is made. 

MAKING TEA 

Fresh-drawn filtered water, just at the boiling point, is the 
first item needful when a cup of tea is desired ; the second item 
is a clean, dry heated teapot, preferably of china-ware. 
Never leave the tea leaves attd tlie liquid left over in the teapot 
for a cup of tea midway between meals. Never drink liquid 
that has stood longer than five or six minutes upon tea leaves. 
At the first bubbling of the water rinse the teapot, already 
clean, and let stand a moment on the hot stove to dry; put 
in the tea leaves and pour over the now furiously bubbling 
water; put on the cover and let stand five minutes on the hot 
range without boiling. If made at the table, cover the pot 
with the "cosey. " After standing five minutes the flavor 
of the tea is impaired. 

PROPORTIONS OF TEA 

A teaspoonful of tea to a cup of water is considered a fair 
proportion ; this gives too strong a cup for some and not strong 
enough for others. When strength is desired, secure it by 
adding tea, and not by longer steeping. 

ACCOMPANIMENTS TO TEA 

If one be fond of the genuine flavor of tea nothing will 
be added to the infusion. The addition of cream and sugar 
is an English custom; that of slices of lemon, or lemon juice 
is a Russian usage, while candied cherries in tea is an 
American innovation. 



TEA AND TEA MAKING 47 



TEA FOR LARGE COMPANIES 

Put the tea leaves, inclosed in a sheer muslin bag, into the 
clean and scalded pot and add boiling water to make a strong 
infusion. .Let stand five minutes, then remove the bag. 
Dilute to taste with water at the boiling point. 

ICED TEA 

Make the tea of rather more strength than ordinary, that 
is, use a larger proportion of tea to water than when the tea 
is to be served hot; pour from the leaves, after standing the 
usual five minutes, directly upon the cracked ice in the glasses. 
Or, make the tea of the usual strength and turn from the 
leaves into a fruit jar and let stand on the ice until thoroughly 
chilled. 

THE TEA BALL 

When tea is to be made for the afternoon caller a cup or 
two at a time, the silver tea-ball, or the later teaspoon, which 
is used in the same manner as the " ball, " is very convenient. 
The ball, or spoon, holding the tea is placed in the cup ; freshly 
boiling water is poured in and the ball or spoon is removed 
when the color indicates that the infusion is sufficiently 
strong. 

A DELICIOUS CUP OF TEA (DR. SHEPARD, PINEHURST, S.C.) 

Select a porcelain cup that is white inside, so as to show the 
color of the tea liquor. Warm the dry cup and saucer 
until rather uncomfortable to hold. Put in the cup a half to 
one teaspoonful (according to taste) of '*Pinehurst" green 
tea, and cover it with a saucer and a cosey, if handy, for 
a few minutes. Having quickly brought freshly drawn 
water to boiling, fill the cup and cover it with the saucer 
and cosey for three minutes. 

Then, without stirring or adding anything, drink only 
the upper half, or two-thirds of the tea liquor. 



48 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



COFFEE 

Sabean odours from the spicy shore 
Of Arabic the blest." 

COMPOSITION OF ROASTED COFFEE (cHURCH) 

In IOC parts there are: water 2.0, albuminoids 12.5, caffeine i.o, fat 
or oil 12.5, tannin 5.0, minor extractives 14.4, cellulose, etc., 48.0, 
mineral matter 4.6 

The coffee plant, it is said, was introduced into Arabia 
in the fifteenth century, but it was not until 1652 that the 
first coffee-shop was opened in London. Napoleon, like 
Voltaire, was as excessively fond of coffee as Boswell informs 
us the great Dr. Johnson was of Mrs. Thrale's cup of tea. 

Drunk in moderation, without cream and sugar, coffee is 
a mild stimulant to gastric digestion, hence after-dinner, or 
black coffee. Coffee also possesses a distinctly laxative 
effect. 

In most households a cup of coffee is considered the one 
thing needful at the breakfast hour. But how often this 
exhilarating beverage, that *'comforteth the brain and heart 
and helpeth digestion' ' is made muddy and ill-flavoured ! To- 
day, although we re'ally have less to do than our foremothers, 
the individual housekeeper scarcely ever takes the time to 
roast her own coffee. The operation is a rather nice one, 
simply because it requires attention. 

The object in roasting is to bring out the naturally delicate 
aroma of the coffee-bean; and the aroma, once developed, 
is to be retained. The French are said to accomplish this 
perfectly by adding to every three pounds of roasting berries 
a tablespoonful, each, of butter and powdered sugar. These, 
in melting, spread over the beans in a thin coating, and so 
confine the volatile aroma. The browned sugar also gives 
to the coffee a slight flavor of caramel, which is much prized 
by the French. 

In the absence of a revolving drum, a thick iron frying-pan 
is probably the best utensil for roasting coffee berries. In 
wholesale stores, where the coffee-berry is roasted, ground^ 



COFFEE AND COFFEE MAKING 49 

and transformed into amber-coloured liquid to be tested by the 
buyer, a small quantity is quickly roasted in an ordinary corn- 
popper. After roasting, the berries, whether ground, or 
unground, must be set aside in an air-tight receptacle. This 
is essential, for two reasons : to hold within the aroma of the 
coffee, and to keep out the exhalations from other substances. 
Indeed, on account of the facility with which coffee appro- 
priates undesirable flavors, the whole process, from the 
roasting to the serving, must be guarded. 

You may roast the berries "to the queen's taste," and 
grind them fresh every morning, and yet, if the golden liquid ' 
be not prepared in the most immaculate of coffee-pots, with 
each return of morning a new disappointment awaits you. 

Now, it is not meant that one need possess a shining 
silver, or even a nickel-plated, coffee-pot, but the vessel that 
does serve as a coffee-pot must be kept nearly, if not quite, 
as clean as the "plates" for a "pure culture of germs." In 
cleaning a coffee-pot, only fresh water and a cloth kept 
specially for the purpose should be used. Never set the 
coffee-pot aside with coffee in it. Occasionally cleanse by 
boiling in it a solution of sal-soda. 

There is another point upon which at least one author 
lays much stress. Brillat-Savarin, in his "Physiology of 
Taste," says: **The Turks do not use a mill to grind the 
coffee. They break it up in mortars with wooden pestles. " 
He also adds that, after carefully experimenting with the 
ground and the powdered coffee, and soliciting experts to test 
the two decoctions, the unanimous opinion of himself and 
friends was that "the coffee made with the pounded berry 
was evidently superior to that made with the ground powder. " 

BOILED COFFEE 

In a coffee-pot that has been well-aired and well-scalded 
put twice as many level tablespoonfuls of ground coffee as 
there are cups to be served; add as many egg-shells, washed 
before the eggs were broken, as there are cups to be served; 
or the white of an egg may be used, that of one egg being 
sufficient to clear about seven tablespoonfuls of ground 



50 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

coffee. Add a tablespoonful of cold water for each cup of 
. liquid desired, and mix thoroughly ; add the requisite number 
of cups of freshly boiling water and let boil five minutes after 
boiling begins. Pour a little cold water — from a quarter 
to half a cup — down the spout, stir in one tablespoonful of 
fresh coffee, and set the pot where it will keep hot, without 
simmering, for ten minutes. The aroma is thought to be 
retained by filling the nozzle with tissue paper, before the 
boiling water is poured over the coffee. If, at the end of 
ten minutes, any member of the family be not ready for coffee, 
■pour the decoction off the grounds, cleanse the pot, return 
the coffee and keep it hot until wanted, then stir in a teaspoon- 
ful or more of fresh coffee for sake of the aroma. In the 
best hotels, coffee is made every fifteen minutes during the 
hours of serving meals, and none is served that has stood 
on the grounds for a longer period. 

FILTERED COFFEE 

After-dinner, or black coffee, is usually made in a *'drip" 
coffee-pot, in which the boiling water drips through the fine- 
ground coffee that is held in a filter. To prepare : put a cup 
of fine-ground coffee in the filter, or strainer, of the coffee- 
pot, and set the pot in a dish of boiling water, if the means 
of keeping the liquid hot be not otherwise provided; pour 
into the strainer a quart of water, freshly drawn and heated 
just to the boiling point; after the water filters through the 
coffee into the lower receptacle, pour off and return a second, 
and, sometimes, a third time to the filter. When the in- 
fusion is of the required strength, pour from the receptacle 
into a hot coffee-pot, and serve without delay, preferably 
without cream, or sugar. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF COCOA AND CHOCOLATE AS 

PURCHASED (aTWATER) 

Water. Protein. Fat. Carbohydrates. Ash. Food Value 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Ccnt.perlb.Calories 

Cocoa 4.6 21.6 28.9 37-3 7-2 2.320 

Chocolate.... 5. 9 12.9 48.7 30.3 2.2 2.860 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 51 

In dealing with tea and coffee we are considering articles 
that in themselves, as we use them, have absolutely no food 
value, articles that are prized by us simply on account of 
their stimulating qualities, but in all preparations made 
from cocoa-beans, or seeds, the beans themselves, in a pre- 
pared state, are consumed with the beverage, and analysis 
shows that the liquid is not only a beverage, but also a food 
of high nutritive value. It is on this account that a cup of 
cocoa or chocolate is a substantial addition to a light meal, 
as is the breakfast or luncheon quite often. 

Cocoa is classed with tea and coffee because of its alkaloid 
principle, bromine, which, though milder and less stimulating, 
corresponds to the caffeine of coffee and the theine of tea. 
Cocoa-beans, like those of the coffee-shrub, are roasted before 
being ground or broken, and the process, as i.a roasting 
coffee, changes the starch in the seeds to dextrine. 

In the process of transforn-iing the cocoa-beans into the 
cocoa of commerce, other changes are also made: the woody 
fibre and other insoluble matters, and a portion of the fat 
are removed, and starch and sugar are added, to change 
still more the proportion of fat to the other ingredients. 
Chocolate differs from many preparations of cocoa, in that 
less of the cocoa butter is removed, which necessitates the 
addition of a greater proportion of starch. And this in turn 
calls for cooking. When the excess of butter is obviated 
by some other means than the use of starch, then simply 
adding boiling water or milk to the preparation will suffice. 
Chocolate differs still further from cocoa, in that, crushed by 
heated rollers, the ingredients form a paste which may be 
pressed into moulds. Chocolate is often flavored ; cinnamon, 
cloves, musk, and vanilla are used for this purpose. 

CRACKED COCOA, OR COCOA NIBS 

2-3 a cup of cracked cocoa beans. 3 pints of boiling water. 

Pour the boiling water over the "nibs" and let boil gently 
three hours, or more. Serve with cream and sugar. This 
decoction is weak, and might fitly be called "cambric" cocoa. 
Taken in small quantity it is good in cases of weak digestion, 



52 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

or when a hot beverage is needed to raise the temperature 
of the stomach to the proper degree for digestion. On suc- 
ceeding days add more nibs and boiling water to those first 
used, and boil again. Repeated cooking improves the bev- 
erage. Cocoa shells are prepared in the same way. 

BREAKFAST COCOA 

2 cups of scalded milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of cocoa powder. 

2 cups of boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Scald the milk in a double boHer; mix the sugar and cocoa, 
stir in the boiling water, gradually, and let boil five or six 
minutes; turn the liquid into the hot milk, and beat with a 
whisk, or egg-beater, five minutes. Serve with additional 
sugar and cream, if desired. 

CHOCOLATE 

^ ounces of chocolate. i cup of boiling water. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 3 cups of scalded milk. 

Break the chocolate into pieces and melt over hot water; 
add the sugar and boiling water, and stir until smooth and 
glossy; let cook five or six minutes; add part of the milk, 
and when well mixed pour into the rest of the milk ; let stand 
over the fire five or six minutes, beating meanwhile with 
a whisk or egg-beater, to make frothy and prevent a skin from 
forming on the surface. 

CREAM AND FLAVORING 

On occasion a flavoring of vanilla, or cinnamon, one or 
both, is a pleasing addition to a pot of cocoa, or chocolate. 
If cinnamon-bark be used, let it steep in the milk while scald- 
ing, the latter. Add ground cinnamon to the sugar and 
cocoa-powder,or to the melted chocolate. Whipped or frothed 
cream may be added to the liquid just before removing from 
the fire, and also to each cup as it is served. 

MILK 

CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF WHOLE MILK (ATWATER) 
Water 87.0, protein 3.3, fat 4.0, carbohydrates .5, ash .7, calories 325. 
Milk, though classed as a beverage, is in reality a food; 



MILK S3 

and when it is used as a part of a meal the quantity of food 
ingested should be diminished accordingly. Milk is a perfect 
food for the young of all milk-giving animals, but on account 
of the large proportion of water in composition it is not so 
well adapted to the needs of the adult. Too much liquid 
would be taken in the effort to secure a proper amount of the 
needful food elements. Or, in other words, taken alone, 
milk is not a well-balanced food. The protein is represented 
by albumen and casein, the carbohydrates by milk sugar. 
When milk is taken into the stomach, rennin, a digestive 
ferment found in the gastric juice, coagulates the albumen 
and casein, thus forming what is called curds. If cow's milk 
be taken into the stomach, a glassful at a time, these curds 
will be large and not easily acted upon by the digestive fluids. 
To remedy this, milk should be "eaten" — that is, swallowed 
.a teaspoonful at a time, or it may be diluted with lime-water, 
though barley-water is preferable. (See page 645.) Lime- 
water by its alkalinity partly neutralizes the acid of the gastric 
juice, and thus weakened the curdling process goes on more 
slowly. But such interference with the natural process of 
digestion cannot be recommended. Eat the milk, or dilute 
it with barley-water, or, in the case of adults, sip the milk 
slowly, eating between the sips bread or some other form of 
farinaceous food. Adults living on milk have no color, 
the milk being without iron in composition. Infants have 
iron stored in the liver that supplies the system for a tiihe. 

CREAM AND SKIMMED MILK 

Ftmdamentally, in structure, milk is an emulsion consisting 
of fine oil globules swimming in a colorless fluid. These 
oil globules are called cream, milk fat, or butter, and are 
the most easily digested of all fats. Cream skimmed by 
hand from milk contains almost all the fat present in the 
milk — for, being lighter than the other constituents, it rises 
to the surface — and also a small proportion of the casein. 
The skimmed milk contains most of the casein, albumen, and 
milk-sugar, with the water, and though it contains a large 
proportion of water, it is still nutritious. In large institutions, 



54 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

hospitals, schools, etc, whole milk rather than cream should 
be purchased, since the skimmed milk can be used to increase 
the nutritive value of many a dish. In buying cream, the 
cost of the milk from which the cream was taken is included. 

CARE OF MILK 

Milk readily absorbs odors, flavors and impurities; 
it is one of the best of soils for the growth and multi- 
plication of certain disease germs. Bacteria are intro- 
duced from dust arising from the cow*s body, from the cloth- 
ing or hands of the milker, from the milk vessels, or from the 
water in which these have been washed. The bacteria of 
typhoid fever, diphtheria and tuberculosis may be transmitted 
in this way. Once admitted to the milk, they begin to 
multiply: warmth is favorable to their growth, hence it is 
desirable to cool milk soon after it is drawn and to keep . 
it at as low a temperature as possible. The souring of milk 
in a thunder-storm is due, not to the storm, but to the warm 
sultry weather preceding, which is favorable to the growth 
of bacteria. If kept thoroughly chilled milk is not affected 
by storms. Besides being kept cool, milk that is delivered 
in bottles and stored in refrigerators with other food should 
be tightly sealed. If the bottles are to be opened several 
times and the caps cannot be replaced, close the neck of the 
bottle with cotton. Since most disease germs are destroyed 
by heat, at the temperature of boiling water, milk may be 
made free from all living organisms — such milk is said to be 
sterile. 

SCALDING MILK 

The digestibility of albumen in rnilk, as in all other sub- 
stances, is diminished, when it is heated to the boiling point ; 
on this account in cookery milk is scalded rather than boiled. 
This is done best in a double-boiler. The milk is scalded, 
when small bubbles appear on the surface next to the vessel. 
The temperature is about i6o° Fahr. If put directly over 
the fire and left, milk is liable to boil over. Milk contains 
so much solid matter that, in boiling, the bubbles below are 



PASTEURIZED MILK 55 

of such consistency that they hold up those above, or bubbles 
are pile! up on bubbles until the dish overflows. 

STERILIZED MILK 

Milk is sterilized by heating to a temperature of 212® Fahr., 
and keeping at that temperature about thirty minutes, some 
say an hour and a half. To remain either pasteurized or 
sterilized, milk must be kept secure from convact with outside 
genns. 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

Sterilized milk does not nourish or agree with those who 
take it as does fresh milk; the albumen is made indigestible 
by the high degree of heat, hence pasteurization (from the 
bacteriologist Pasteur) is regarded as preferable. Pasteurized 
milk has been freed from all harmful bacteria temporarily. 
Milk is pasteurized by heating it to a temperature between 
140° and 167° Fahr., and keeping it at that temperature 
for about thirty minutes. At this comparatively low 
degree of temperature milk remains practically fresh and 
uncooked. 

TO PASTEURIZE MILK 

Put the milk into glass fruit-jars, adjust the covers, but 
do not turn them down; set the jars on the rack in a steam 
kettle (aluminum- ware is good for this purpose, because it 
holds the heat), and fill the kettle with water to the height 
of the milk in the jar. Heat the water until the thermometer 
in the water-bath registers 171° Fahr. The temperature of 
the milk will be several degrees lower. Keep the kettle 
covered. Now remove the kettle to a place where the water 
will remain at this temperature. Put two stove-lids under 
the kettle, or remove to a table and throw over it a heav}' 
comfortable, — cotton wadding is a non-conductor of heat, — 
and allow it to stand thus for half an hour. Now cool as 
quickly as possible, but gradually at first, or the bottles will 
break; then set away the jars in a cool place. The double 
boiler may be used, but the steam kettle is more convenient 



56 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

for the use of the thermometer, and the glass jars are proper 
vessels in which to store milk. If a double-boiler be used, 
let it be a large one, so that the water in the bath may rise 
to the level of the milk. 

TO PASTEURIZE MILK WITHOUT A THERMOMETER 

For this is needed some sort of a utensil having a rack to 
hold the cans, or bottles up out of the water. The ordinary 
steam-kettle answers this purpose, but any saucepan of 
sufficient height, in which a rack can be fitted, is satisfactory. 
Pour water into the bottom of the pan below the rack of 
bottles and let boil twenty minutes after boiling begins. The 
steam surrounding the bottles, or jars of milk, heats them. 
Cool as quickly as possible; after a little while they may be 
set into a pail of cold water. Cover the jars, or close the 
bottles with cotton wadding, before heating the milk. 

KOUMISS 

I quart of fresh milk. i tablcspoonful of brewer's yeast 

I 1-2 tabk'spoonfuls of sugar, or (fresh), or 

better r-3 a cake of compressed 

I tablcspoonful of syrup at 35° S. yeast softened in i tablespoonful 

gauge. of lukewarm water. 

Heat the milk to a temperature of 100° Fahr. ; add the 
sweetening and yeast, and stir until thoroughly mixed, then 
turn into bottles that can be tightly corked. Let the bottles 
be filled to within about two inches of their full height. Cork 
and tie in the corks securely. Let stand at a temperature be- 
tween 60° and 70° Fahr. ten hours. Chill before using. A 
tap for drawing the koumiss insures against the loss of much 
of the contents of each bottle. 

EGG-NOGO 

12 eggs. I quart of milk. 

24 (level) tablespoon fuls of pow- 6 wine-glasses of Jamaica Rum. 
dered sugar. 6 wine-glasses of brandy. 

Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately. When 
the yolks are light add the sugar by spoonftils, continuing to 



FRUIT BEVERAGES S7 

beat until the mixture is very light. Then add the liquor, 
the brandy first, the first two glasses, drop by drop, and the 
rest gently; then add the milk and turn into a punch-bowl; 
stir in part of the stiff-beaten whites of the eggs and let the 
rest look like a white foam on the top of the liquid. This 
is improved by standing a few hours in a cool place. 

EGG-NOGG, BALTIMORE STYLE (ADOLPHE MEYER) 

Beat the yolks of three eggs and one-fourth a nutmeg 
grated, with two ounces of powdered sugar, to the consistency 
of cream; add, pouring in quietly the while, half a gill of brandy 
or rum and one glass of Marsala or brown sherry; add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and, when well 
incorporated, a gill of cream and a pint of milk. 

FRUIT DRINKS 
LEMONADE (ONE GLASS) 

Mix the juice of half a lemon and two or three teaspoonfuls 
of sugar (sugar-syrup is better if at hand) ; mix until the sugar 
is dissolved, then fill with cold water. 

LEMONADE 

I quart of syrup at 35®. 2 quarts of water. 

6 lemons, juice and yellow rind. 

Pour the hot syrup over the yellow rinds of the lemon, from 
which every particle of the white portion has been removed, 
and let stand until cold. If the flavor be desired less strong, 
use the syrup cold, or less of the yellow rind. Add the juice 
to the water and mix with the cold syrup. All fruit juice, ex- 
cept, perhaps, pineapple, currant, and grape, is more agreeable, 
if uncooked. Let the lemonade stand on the ice in a closed 

t 

jar two hours before serving. 

ORANGEADE 

I quart of syrup at 35°. 3 lemons, juice only. 

6 oranges, juice and yellow rind. 2 quarts of water. 

Prepare as lemonade. 



58 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CURRANTADE 

1 quart of red currants. i quart of syrup at 35**. 
1-2 pint of raspberries. 2 quarts of water. 

I lemon, juice only. 

Crush the currants and raspberries, add the water and 
filter the whole through a jelly bag. Add the syrup, cold, 
to the filtered juice, turn into jars, close tightly, and let stand 
on the ice two hours before serving. Gouff^ recommends 
filtering the fruit juice for all jellies and beverages through 
a jelly bag with paper reduced to a pulp by washing it in 
plenty of water. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

2 cups of sugar. The juice of 3 or 4 lemons. 
I pint of water. A grated pineapple. 

I quart of water (about) . 

Boil the sugar and pint of water ten minutes ; let cool, and 
add the lemon juice and the pineapple; let stand two hours, 
add the quart of water (charged water preferred) and serve 
at once. 

STRAWBERRYADE 

I quart of syrup at 35° (Syrup gauge) Juice of 5 lemons. 
I pint of strawberry juice. 2 quarts of water. 

Mash the berries, add the lemon juice, and strain into the 
cold syrup; add to the water, and proceed as in lemonade. 
Additional water will be needed in this and the other similar 
beverages. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

I pineapple, or i pint of strawberry, currant, or 

I can of grated pineapple. grape juice. 

3 cups of boiling water. i bottle of charged Apollinaris 
I cup of tea freshly made. water. 

The juice of 5 lemons. i quart of sugar, or better 3 cups of 

The juice of 6 oranges. syrup at 35°. 

5 quarts of water. 

Grate the pineapple, and boil with the water twenty min- 
utes, or longer, then strain through a jelly-bag, pressing out 



FRUIT BEVERAGES 59 

all the juice; let cool and add the rest of the fruit juice, the 
tea and the syrup. If sugar be used, add a pint of water to 
the sugar and let boil six or eight minutes ; cool before using. 
Add the ApoUinaris water just before serving.. It is better 
to make the punch a few hours before the time of serving, 
then let stand, closely covered, on ice to chill and ripen. Then, 
when ready to serve, add the water and the ApoUinaris. 
Strawberries, mint leaves, or slices of banana are often added 
as a garnish. 

RASPBBRRY SHRUB 

I quart of cider vinegar. 6 quarts of red raspberries 

I pint of sugar to each pint of juice. 

Put three quarts of the berries into an earthen jar, and 
pour over them the vinegar; let stand about twenty-four 
hours, then strain through a jelly bag, pressing out all the 
liquid; pour this liquid over a second three quarts of fresh 
berries and let stand again twenty-four hours; again 
strain through a jelly bag expressing the juice. Add the 
sugar as above and let boil twenty minutes. Store as canned 
fniit, or in bottles. To serve, use one-fourth a cup of the 
shrub to three-fourths a cup of water. 

GRAPE WINE (MARGARET WELLS, OHIO) 

Wash and stem the grapes and squeeze through a coarse 
cloth. Allow one quart of soft water to each three quarts of 
juice, and three pounds of brown sugar to four quarts of 
juice. Let stand six weeks in an open vessel, covered with 
a light cloth, to exclude the dust, and then bottle. 

CLARET CUP 

I quart of claret wine. 1-2 a cup of brandy. 
1 quart of charged ApoUinaris 

water. Sugar syrup to sweeten. 

1 pint of water, or tea. Mint leaves, if liked. 

The juice of 6 lemons. Strawberries, or pieces of pineapple 

Mix all the ingredients, save the ApoUinaris, the mint, 



6o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and the fruit; chill on ice. At serving add the other ingred- 
ients. 

HOT CLARET PUNCH 

Heat a bottle of claret with half a cup of sugar, a piece of 
stick cinnamon, half a dozen cloves, and the juice of two 
lemons ; stir while the sugar dissolves, strain and serve. 



CHAPTER II 



"To make an omelette it is necessary to break eggs." 

— French Proverb. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION (aTWATER) 

Protein 

Refuse Water (by difference) Fat Ash Fuel Value 

Per Per Per Per Per Per Pound 

Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Calories 

Whole egg 11.2 65.5 13. i 9.3 .9 635 

Boiled whites 86.2 13.0 .2 .6 250 

Boiled yolks 49-5 16. i 33 S i-i '~7o5 

It was our own Emerson, who said: "There is a best way 
of doing everything, even if it be to boil an egg. " And yet 
with eggs the best way is not *'to boil" at all, but to cook 
at a temperature below the boiling point of water, or, to be 
exact, not above 180° Fahr. An egg possesses its highest 
nutritive value in a raw state, and the higher the temperature 
to which it is subjected and the longer it is exposed to heat 
the more .indigestible the albumen becomes. The white of 
an egg is nearly pure albumen, the yolk, though rich in albu- 
men, contains about 30 per cent, of fat, and is also rich in 
sulphur. There are no uric acid derivatives in eggs. 

No other than fresh-laid eggs can be served at the break- 
fast table with full satisfaction. As the quality of the yolk, 
on account of its composition, is soon impaired, it should 
not be retained in the stomach longer than the time of normal 
digestion. If the egg, when eaten, be no longer fresh, or if, 
for any other cause, its digestion be impeded, derangement 
of the stomach and intestines is liable to follow. 

Eggs are digested more readily, when the whites and yolks 
have been mixed thoroughly before cooking, as in scrambled 
eggs and omelettes; for, in this case, the white is not taken into 
the stomach in a separate hard mass. 

61 



62 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Bilious people are accustomed to discard eggs in any form; 
but doubtless such may eat the whites of fresh eggs, especially 
when they are served in the form of a delicately baked custard, 
since, in this case, the white, which is used alone, is broken 
up by beating and then is diluted by the other ingredients. 
It is the richness of the yolks that occasions disturbance; 
thirty parts of yolk in one hundred are fat, or oil, while the 
white contains but two parts of fat in one hundred. 

An egg is probably at its best when about twelve hours 
old. The shell of a fresh egg is full, but as the egg grows 
older, the water in composition evaporates through the 
porous shell, leaving a space, and the air penetrating causes 
the contents to deteriorate. When first laid the yolk is sur- 
rounded by the white, but evaporation leaves it nearer the 
shell, and, if the egg be not left with the small end downwards, 
the yolk from its weight will soon touch the shell, and con- 
tact with the air quickly spoils it. 

HOW TO TELL FRESH EGGS 

A fresh egg feels heavy and sinks in water; the dark spot 
that represents the yolk should be in the centre of the mass. 
No audible sound is made, when a fresh egg is shaken; shake 
one less fresh, and the beating against the shell is perceptible. 

HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS 

To preserve eggs for any length of time, exclude the air 
by covering them with fat, wax, strong brine, or lime-water; 
or pack them in sawdust, or meal. 

Eggs may be kept fresh in a cool, dry place for months by 
packing them, small ends down, in a bed of ordinary coarse 
salt. The shells should not come in contact, and each egg 
should stand upright. The salt holds the egg firm in position 
and excludes the air. Fine coarse-salt, such as is often used 
in freezing, is adapted to this purpose. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS FOR USE IN WINTER. (MRS. 

KIMBALL, STOCKBRIDGE) 

Into each three gallons of water mix one pint of fresh- 



EGGS 63 

slacked lime and one-half pint of common salt; put in the 
eggs and cover with a board sprinkled with lime and salt. 



TO KEEP WHITES AND YOLKS AS "LEFT OVER 



»i 



In recipes where only yolks are called for, the whites may 
be kept, if carefully covered, in a cool place, for some days. 
When yolks are left over, they cannot be kept as long as the 
whites. The yolks should be beaten in a bowl, or cup and 
carefully covered with a saucer. When they are required, 
they will be found in much better condition than when 
they are set away without beating (covered with cold 
water). When a recipe calls fo? whites of eggs, and one is 
to have no immediate use for yolks, drop the yolks very care- 
fully, as the shells are broken, into hot water, "just ofiE the 
boil," and, after they are cooked throughout, set aside to 
serve in soup, one in each plate. Or, the cooked yolks may 
be rubbed through a sieve as a garnish for a salad, or for the 
top of a dish of cream-toast, or meat warmed in a sauce. 

CURIOUS WAYS OF COOKING EGGS 

Chef Adolphe Meyer in his little book on eggs, among other 
methods of cooking, aludes to two that might be tried by 
"campers. " 

EGGS COOKED IN HOT ASHES 

"In countries where wood fire is constantly used, the cot- 
tager half buries his eggs in an upright position in hot ashes, 
upon the hearth, and when a clear drop oozes on the top of 
the shell the eggs are fit to be eaten. " 

EGGS COOKED WITHOUT FIRE 

"The most singular method of cooking eggs is that attri- 
buted to the Egyptian shepherds, who, it is said, were able 
to cook eggs without fire, by placing them in -a sling, and 
whirling them around so rapidly that the friction of the air 
heated them to the exact degree required. " 

Aside from the above and other singular exceptions, and 



64 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

discarding combinations of egg, milk, starchy ingredients, 
etc., eggs are cooked in one of the following ways: 

I Boiled (in the shell) 

{In water, stock, etc. 
Shirred (in cocottes, or cases) 
Moulded (in timbale cups) 

3 Fried. 

C Omelet. 

4 Yolk and White mixed. < 

( Scrambled. 

BOILED EGGS 

The albumen of an egg cooked in boiling water three min- 
utes, the time usually indicated to secure the regulation 
"soft-boiled" egg, becomes tough near the shell, while the* 
yolk has scarcely felt the heat; eggs thus cooked cannot be 
called palatable, ' and, in part, are not readily digested. 
When cooked five minutes, the period considered necessary 
for "hard-boiled eggs," a hard, leathery mass results that is 
utterly unfit for other than the strongest stomach. The 
albumen of an egg begins to coagulate at 134° Fahr. ; at 160° 
Fahr. it is white throughout, but tender and jelly-like; this 
consistency it loses at 200° Fahr., while at 212° Fahr. it be- 
comes tough and indigestible. 

In actual practice the white of an egg cooked by standing 
half an hour in a vessel containing one pint of water kept at 
160° is firm yet delicate and jelly-like, while the yolk is thick 
and almost firm. Then, if the water about the eggs could 
be kept at 160° Fahr., while the various degrees of consistency 
desired by the different members of the family were secured, 
the breakfast problem, as far as satisfactorily cooked eggs 
are concerned, would be solved. But this involves too close 
attention for the general cooking of eggs. It may be carried 
out to perfection only in the occasional family; it may, how- 
ever, be approximated very accurately as follows: For each 
egg put one pint of boiling water into a hot saucepan (less 
will do where several eggs are to be cooked), gently lower the 
eggs into the water and let stand, uncovered, on the back of 
the range, where the heat will neither be increased nor dimin- 



BOILED EGGS ,65 

ished, eight or ten minutes. If wished very firm, let stand 
forty or forty-five minutes, covering the saucepan after the 
first five minutes. 

BOILED EGGS NO. a 

Allow one quart of boiling water to four eggs. Pour the 
water into an earthen jar that has been previously heated, 
put in the eggs, cover the dish and wrap in a heavy flannel 
cloth. The eggs will be soft-boiled in six minutes, more solid 
in ten minutes. 

BOILED EGGS NO. 3 

Place the eggs covered with cold water over the fire and 
remove at the first boil. 

EGGS FOR GARNISHING 

Let the eggs stand in water at 160° forty minutes; let stand 
in cold water ten or fifteen minutes, then remove the shell 
and cut with a sharp knife as desired. Soft-cooked eggs, 
removed whole from the shells, are often served with purees 
and sauces in the place of poached eggs. 

STUFFED TOMATOES WITH SOFT-BOILED EGGS 

Rather more than half-fill tomatoes, from which the centres 
have been taken, with equal parts of cooked, chopped mush- 
room-trimmings and ham, moistened slightly with mushroom 
liquor, or the tomato taken from the centre. Season the 
mixture with salt and pepper and bind with the yolk of an 
egg, if desired, before putting in place. Bake the tomatoes,,- 
until tender, but retain the shape, if possible. When ready 
to serve, dispose in each tomato a soft-boiled egg, shelled 
and reheated in hot water. Garnish the dish with the mush- 
room caps, from which the trimmings were taken, broiled 
«ad placed on rounds of toast. Serve with cream sauce 
apart, or poured over each egg. 



66 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

HARD-BOILED EGGS WITH VARIATIONS 
HARD-BOILED EGGS A LA BECHAMEL 

Have ready finger-length strips of toast to make a square; 
place these side by side and pour over them a cup of Bechamel 
sauce; pass the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs through a sieve 
upon the top of the square and surround the sides with the 
whites of the eggs, cut in eighths lengthwise. 

BEAUREGARD EGGS 

Prepare a cup of white, or cream sauce, and stir into this 
the whites of four "hard-boiled eggs," chopped fine. Toast 
and arrange in a serving-dish bits of bread, cut to liken the 
petals of a daisy, having the petals about three inches in 
length. Spread the sauce on the buttered toast and press the 
yolks, seasoned with salt and pepper, in the centre to form 
the centre of the daisy. Garnish with parsley between the 
petals. 

EGG VERMICELLI 

Spread rounds of moistened, or buttered, toast with the above 
white mixture and sift the yolks over the top. Mix chopped 
chicken, ham, or mushrooms into the sauce, if convenient. 

EGG LOAF WITH ASPARAGUS 

Cooked asparagus tips. Onion juice. 

I cup of white-sauce. Salt and pepper. 

4 "hard-boiled eggs. " Cooked asparagus. 

Yolks of 6 eggs and i whole egg. White-sauce. 

Use cream, or chicken stock and cream, in preparing the 
white sauce; add the hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, one cup 
of cooked asparagus tips, the yolks and whole egg, beaten 
light, (four well-beaten eggs may be substituted) and salt and 
pepper to taste ; turn into a pint charlotte mould, or a bowl, 
thickly buttered and lined with cooked asparagus tips. Cook, 
standing in a dish of hot water, until the centre is firm. Let 
stand a few moments, then turn from the mould. Serve 



EGGS. STUFFED, ETC. 



67 



with drawn butter, or HoUandaise sauce, to which a few 
asparagus tips may be added. If a charlotte mould be 
used, fit a buttered paper into the bottom ; arrange the aspar- 
agus tips in contact, or at intervals one with another. 

EGG, OR EASTER CROQUETTES 



1-4 a cup of butter. 
1-2 a cup of flour. 
I cup of chicken stock. 
1-4 a cup of cream. 



I egg uncooked. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
8 or 10 "hard-boiled" egg$. 
Mushrooms, or oysters. 



Prepare a sauce with the butter, flour, stock and cream; 
add salt and pepper, the uncooked egg, beaten light, and the 
cooked whites, chopped, and yolks passed through a sieve; 
chill thoroughly, then form into egg-shaped croquettes with 
a bit of cooked mushroom, or a parboiled oyster in the centre 
of each. Egg-and-bread-ctumb and fry in deep fat. (See 
Croquettes, pages 25-26.) Serve in a nest of parsley. Four eggs, 
with an equal bulk of fresh mushrooms, broken in pieces and 
sauted five minutes in butter, are preferable as far as savor 
is concerned. 

STUFFED EGGS AU GRATIN 

Cut six hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise; remove and 
sift the yolks, then add an equal quantity of cold boiled ham, 
with chicken, or tongue pounded to a paste, half a teaspoonful, 
each, of paprika and mixed mustard, a few drops of onion- 
juice, and uncooked yolk of egg, or sauce, as needed to shape. 
With this fill the whites and press together corresponding 
halves. Put three-fourths a cup of bread, cream, or tomato- 
sauce in a buttered gratin dish, and arrange the eggs in the 
sauce, pouring three-fourths a cup over them ; sprinkle over 
the top half a cup of coarse bread-crumbs sautdd in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and set the dish in the oven to reheat. 

STUFFED EGGS WITH SALAD 

12 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

2 teaspoonfuls of French mustard. 1-2 a cup of cold-boiled ham, or 
X tablespoonful of lemon juice. tongue. 

Salt and Cayenne. 



68 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cook the eggs as for garnishing, page 65, then cut in halves 
lengthwise; remove the yolks and rub to a smooth paste with 
the oil and seasonings; add the ham or tongue, fine-chopped, 
and mix thoroughly. Fill the space in the whites with this 
mixture, rounding it to resemble a whole yolk. Serve on a 
bed of water-cress dressed with French dressing. 

STUFFED EGGS FOR PICNICS 

Prepare the eggs as for stuffed eggs with salad, but cut 
the eggs in halves, crosswise, instead of lengthwise; make the 
mixture level with the edge of the halves of egg; brush over 
the edge of one white with uncooked white of egg and press 
the corresponding half closely upon it ; let stand to dry. Cut 
white tissue paper into pieces six inches square, fringe the 
opposite sides, and roll an egg in each paper, adding with the 
egg a sentiment or quotation within on a bit of paper; twist 
the fringed ends in the same manner as *' candy secrets/* 
Serve in a small basket lined with ferns. 

STUFFED EGGS, FRIED 

Have eggs cooked and shelled as "Eggs for Garnishing," 
on page 65. With a tin tube, half an inch in diameter, remove 
a cylindrical piece of white from the pointed end of each 
egg: then with a small vegetable spoon fempty the whites 
of yolks. Pound the yolks with Bernaise, or HoUandaise 
sauce, adding cooked mushrooms, chopped fine; fill the eggs 
with this mixture and put the pieces of white back in place; 
egg-and-bread crumb and fry, to a pale straw color, in deep 
fat. Serve with Soubise, or tomato-sauce. 

HARD-BOILED EGGS WITH NOODLES AND MUSHROOMS 

Arrange layers of cooked-and-blanched noodles, mush- 
room caps, broken in pieces and simmered in milk or broth, 
and hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices, in a gratin dish. Cover 
each layer with Bechamel sauce, reduced with the mushroom 
liquor. Sprinkle the whole with melted butter and grated 
Parmesan cheese, and reheat in a hot oven. Garnish with 
whole mushrooms and slices of "egg. 



STUFFED EGGS FOR PICNICS (See page 6 



CROQUETTES. (See w 



EGGS, POACHED 69 



POACHED EGGS 

Eggs are poached by cooking in water after they have 
been taken from the shells. Without doubt, the idea of 
"poaching," as used in cookery, applies primarily to the 
direct application of heated water without the intervention, 
as in the case of eggs, of the shell, or an intermediate vessel; 
thus we poach eggs, quennelles, or meringue, directly in the 
water. But the term poaching has come to be applied to the 
cooking of all articles containing eggs, either in the oven or on 
the top of the range, in dishes that are surrounded with hot 
water. Two things are essential to the perfection of dishes 
cooked by poaching; first, the dish containing the food should 
be set on a trivet — several folds of paper answer admirably — 
that it may not come in contact with the vessel containing the 
heated water. Secondly, the water in which the cooking 
is to be done should be at the boiling point when it is poured 
about the dish containing the food, but it should not be 
allowed to boil thereafter. 

But to return to poached eggs. Kitchiner says that "the 
cook who wishes to display her skill in poaching must en- 
deavor to procure eggs that have been laid a couple of days. " 
The white of new-laid eggs is milky, easily dissolved and 
separated in water, but, on the other hand, if too stale, the 
cell-walls do not remain firm, and the eggs flatten out. Kitch- 
iner probably is about right. When poached to perfection 
the egg throughout is jelly-like, the golden yolk just showing 
through a "transparent veil" of white. To secure this con- 
dition brush over the bottom of an iron frying-pan with 
butter, or oil, then partly fill with boiling water, adding salt, or 
a. little lemon juice, or vinegar; break the eggs one after 
another into a cup and turn them into the water, which should 
not be let boll, or even simmer. The top of the yolk should 
slightly emerge from the water; if the yolk be covered, care- 
fully dip out some of the water; if too much is visible, add 
more water very carefully, so as not to disturb the eggs; let 
stand until the egg is cooked to the consistency desired, then 
remove with a skimmer and arrange on slices of bread toasted. 



70 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

after removing the crusts, and buttered. If the eggs be of 
proper age and poached carefully, they will not need trimming. 
It is an open question whether trimming ever improves their 
appearance. Add a few bits of water-cress, or parsley, to 
complete the dish. 

POACHED EGGS, FRENCH STYLE 

Eggs poached, French style resemble in appearance and 
shape a soft-boiled egg removed whole from the shell. They 
are used principally to garnish a crust, or crouton, filled with 
pur^e. For success the eggs must be just about twenty-four 
hours old and cooked one at a time. Have about a quart of 
water, to which a teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar has been added, boiling violently. Break the shell 
and turn the contents, at once, on to the water at a point where 
there is the greatest agitation. The high temperature of 
the water and the acid harden the albumen upon the outside 
and keep the egg whole. The egg should be kept in motion 
either by the boiling water, or the use of a skimmer; this 
tends to keep the mass, oval in shape. Remove with a 
skimmer and drain before setting in place. 

POACHED EGG, HYGIENIC FASHION 

Add a few grains of salt to the white of an egg, beat until dry 
and turn into a buttered glass, or a china bowl; form a nest 
on the top for the yolk. Set the glass on a trivet, in a covered 
dish of lukewarm water, and let cook until the egg is set and 
rises in the glass. Do not let the water boil around the glass. 

WITH TOAST 

Pile the beaten white of an egg on a round slice of toast, 
giving it the form of a nest; drop in the yolk and let cook in 
a moderate oven until set. In this case the toast takes the 
place of the water. At discretion the toast may first be 
spread with anchovy paste, fine-chopped ham, or chicken, 
stirred into a white sauce. 

POACHED EGGS VSTITH SPINACH A LA CREME 

Cook half a peck of spinach (see page 309) drain and chop. 
Cook two tablespoonfuls of flour in two of butter; add half a 



r 



EGGS, POACHED 71 

cup of cream, and when well blended and smooth add the 
spinach with salt and pepper as needed; cook and stir until 
well mixed, then spread on rounds of toast, or fried bread 
and place a poached egg on top; sprinkle the yolk with fine- 
chopped parsley if desired. 

POACHBD EGGS WITH CREAMED SALMON 

Brush the cases (see Bread Croustades, page 28) with melted 
butter and brown in the oven; fill with fresh salmon cooked, 
(canned salmon may be used), flaked and heated in a cup of 
hot cream-sauce. Dispose a poached egg above the salmon. 
Serve garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CREAMED CELERY 

Arrange poached eggs in a circle on rounds of hot buttered 
toast; fill in the centre of the circle with a pint of celery, cut 
into inch lengths and cooked in boiling water until tender 
(about two hours), then stirred into a cup and a half of cream- 
sauce. In making the sauce use half water in which the 
celery was cooked and half cream. 

POACHED EGGS WITH ANCHOVY TOAST 

Toast rounds of bread, spread with anchovy paste and 
place a poached egg on top of each round. 

EGGS POACHED IN CONSOMME 

Use consomme instead of water, poaching one or two eggs 
at a time; thicken the consomme, add a few spoonfuls of 
cream and pour around or over the eggs, arranged on slices 
of toast. 

POACHED EGGS, COUNTESS STYLE 

Fill ptiff -paste patties, with asparagus tips, cooked and 
well-buttered; coyer with a poached egg and surrotmd with 
cream, velout^, or Hollandaise sauce. If the cream-sauce 
made thick with pur^e of asparagus, be used in the patties 
with the egg above, the dish becomes poached eggs with 
cream of asparagus. 



^2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



POACHED EGGS, SICILIAN FASHION 

Fill bread croustades, or puff-paste cases with cooked and 
sifted chicken livers, mixed with cream or velout^ sauce to 
form a thick pur^e; place a poached egg above. Pour 
tomato-sauce over, or around the croutons. 

POACHED EGGS, CREOLE STYLE 

1 can of tomatoes. 2 tablespoonfttls of butter. 

I green pepper, shredded. Salt and pepper. 

Toast. I tablespoonful of lemon juice, or 

5 eggs. vinegar. 

Stew the tomatoes and pepper until the tomato is reduced 
one-half; turn on to a serving-dish, arrange on the tomato 
five rounds of toast, and upon each of these a poached egg. 
Melt and brown the butter, add the vinegar, or lemon juice, 
and, when the liquid boils, pour the sauce over the eggs; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve at once. 

SALPICON OF EGGS IN CASSEROLES, PATTY-SHELLS, ETC. 

The whites of 6 eggs. The yolks of 6 eggs. 

6 tablespoonfuls of thin cream. 6 tablespoonfuls of consomm^, or 
Salt and pepper. chicken broth. 

Beat the whites and yolks separately, and only until well 
broken up; add the liquid and seasonings and strain into 
two well-buttered moulds, the yolks in one, the whites in 
the other. Poach in a moderate oven imtil the centres are 
firm. Unmould when cold, cut in thin slices and stamp out 
into figures. Reheat with truffles and smoked tongue, also 
cut out in figures, in Bechamel, velout^, or supreme sauce. 
Serve in patty-shells, Swedish timbale cases, cocottes, cliina, 
or paper cases. If paper cases be the choice, brush them 
over with oil, or melted butter and dry them in the oven 
before using. 

SHIRRED EGGS (CEUF8 SUR LE PLAT.) AU MIROIR. EQQ 

IN COCOTTES 

Eggs poached in a dish are said to be shirred; when the 
eggs are basted with melted butter during the cooking, to 



1 them 



'm 



EGGS, SHIRRED 73 

(ve them a glossy, shiny appearance, the dish is called au 
iroir. Often the eggs are served in the dish in which they 
re cooked ; at other times, especially where several are cooked 
the same dish, they are cut with a round paste-cutter and 
ed on croutons, or on a garnish. Eggs are shirred in 
t dishes, in cases of china, or paper, or in cocottes. A 
otte is a small earthen saucepan with a handle, standing 
three feet. These are usually of Sarreguemines ware, 
e china cases are in various styles; some are provided with 
saucer upon which the case rests for serving. When paper 
s are used, a second larger case receives the case in which 
e egg is cooked. 

I 

Mix two tablespoonfuls, each, of bread-crumbs and chopped 
chicken, or ham (or use bread alone) with cream to make a 
batter ; season with salt and pepper. Line a buttered cocotte, 
or case (china, or paper) with the batter, break an egg into 
the dish, and, if desired, cover with batter; bake on a folded 
paper in a dish containing hot water, until the egg is set. 
Serve from the dish. 

II 

Saut^ a handful of chopped mushrooms with a Lttle onion 
juice in butter five minutes; add a little chopped parsley, 
sprinkle the same on the bottom and sides of a buttered 
shirrer or cocotte, and break the egg into the dish; sprinkle 
with the fine herbs and cook as above, basting two or three 
times with melted butter. 

EGGS SHIRRED IN TOMATOES (AU MIROIR) 

Cut circular pieces from the stem ends of the tomatoes 
and remove part of the pulp; season with salt and pepper, 
also with onion juice and parsley, if desired; break an egg 
into each tomato and cook in a slow oven until the egg is set, 
basting with melted butter. Serve on rounds of buttered 
toast; or, put the tomatoes into the oven on rounds of bread 
brushed over on all sides with melted butter; remove the 
tomatoes on the bread to the serving-dish. Garnish with 



74 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

curled celery. Serve with cream-sauce apart, or poured 
around the toast. 

EGGS SHIRRED WITH CHICKEN FORCEMEAT 

Line buttered china cups with chicken forcemeat (see page 
257); break an egg into the centre of each cup, cover with 
buttered paper and let poach, standing on a folded paper in 
a dish of hot water, about ten minutes. Serve with or with- 
out a spoonful of Bechamel sauce poured over the top of 
each egg. 

EGGS WITH MASHED POTATO 

Pipe a Duchess potato mixture (see page 291), or a well 
seasoned mashed-potato mixture as a border around the 
inside of an individual egg-dish; spread cooked fine herbs 
(see page 23), or bits of meat, or fish in a sauce over the open 
space on the bottom of the dish; above this break two eggs. 
Cook in the oven until the eggs are set. Sprinkle the yolks 
with pepper and serve at once. 

EGGS A LA PARISIENNE (MOULDED EGGS) 

Sprinkle the inside of buttered dariole moulds with fine- 
chopped parsley. Break an egg into each mould, dust with 
salt and pepper, set on a folded paper in a pan of hot water, 
and let poach, covered, on the top of the range, or in the oven, 
as convenient, until the eggs are firm, then turn from the 
moulds onto a hot serving-dish. Have ready a can of tomatoes 
that have been cooked fifteen minutes with a slice of onion 
and passed through a sieve ; season with salt and pepper and 
reheat with a cup of canned mushrooms, or let simmer ten 
minutes with a cup of fresh mushrooms, peeled and sauted 
in two tablespoonfuls of butter. Pour the tomatoes and 
mushrooms about the eggs and serve at once. 

EGGS MOULDED IN PIMENTOS 

Line buttered timbale, or dariole moulds with canned 
pimentos (a can costing eighteen cents contains a dozen 
pimentos); break an egg into each mould, and poach until 



EGGS, FRIED, ETC. 75 

the egg is set; then turn from the moulds on to. rounds of 
buttered toast and serve with cream-sauce. 

FRIED EGGS 

Have plenty of fat, not too hot, in a frying-pan; break the 
eggs, one by one, into a cup and turn them into the fat (don't 
crowd the pan) ; if the fat bubbles and spatters it is too hot ; 
with a spoon dip the fat and pour it over the eggs. When the 
yolks are covered with a transparent film, remove to sHces of 
broiled ham cut a little larger than the eggs. Eggs may be 
fried and present an appearance as delicate as when they are 
poached. An egg fried brown is most indigestible and no 
additional flavour is gained thereby. 

EGGS WITH BROWN BUTTER 

8 eggs. 1-2 a cup of butter. 

Salt and pepper. i tablespoon ful of vinegar. 

Heat half the butter in a frying-pan over a strong fire ; when 
it is turning brown remove to a cooler place. Have ready the 
rest of the butter in a second frying-pan and into this carefully 
break the eggs without injuring the yolks ; sprinkle with salt 
and pepper ; pour the browned butter carefully over the surface 
of the eggs and put the vinegar on to heat in this frying-pan. 
When the whites become set, or firm, remove to a serving- 
dish and pour the vinegar over them. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Butter a saut^-pan generously; add the eggs, beaten and 
seasoned as for a French omelet, also, if desired, half as many 
tablespoonfuls of cream, or water, as eggs — the liquid will 
give a more custard-like appearance to the dish. Stir the 
eggs, continually, until they are of a soft, creamy consistency 
throughout; the last of the cooking should be done by the 
heat of the pan. Serve at once. Scrambled eggs may be 
varied by the addition of any of the articles usually added 
to omelets. These materials may be chopped fine, or cut 
in small distinct cubes: they should be mixed with the eggs 
just before the pan is taken from the fire. Scrambled eggs 



76 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

may be served simply with a sprig of parsley, or on toast, or 
in cases with or without a sauce. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS AND TOMATOES, SPINACH BORDER 

Cook half a peck of spinach in broth. Chop fine. Season 
and form into a ring on a dish. Beat six eggs; add salt, 
pepper, and half a cup of canned tomatoes; mix thoroughly. 
Turn into a hot omelet-pan over two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter; stir until the mixture is lightly set, then turn into 
the centre of the spinach-dish, garnish and serve hot. 

BOGS A LA BUCKINGHAM 

5 slices of toast. 1-2 a teaspoon fiil of salt. 

I cup of cream sauce. Pepper. 

5 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, or 

5 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. water, if desired. 

Dip the edges of the toast in boiling salted water, then in 
the sauce; pour the sauce over the' toast, and above this the 
eggs scrambled with the seasonings and liquid. Sprinkle 
the top with the cheese and set the dish in the oven just long 
enough to melt the cheese; then serve at once. 

EQQS, LOWELL, STYLE 

Cut tomatoes in halves crosswise; dip in oil, or melted 
butter, then in fine bread, or cracker crumbs, and broil over 
a rather slow fire. Set aside to keep hot. Melt three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, pour in half a dozen eggs, — beaten until 
whites and volks are well mixed, — season with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and dilute with five table- 
spoonfuls of water; stir a moment, then add five table- 
spoonfuls of grated cheese and stir until the cheese is melted 
and the eggs arc set. Put the mixture on buttered rounds 
of toast with half a tomato above. 

OMELETS 

All omelets may be grouped under one or the other of t^vo 
classes: the French, or the puffy. There are many varieties 
and modifications of these two classes; but in reality, if these 



OMELETS 77 

be examined cafefully, they will be found to belong to the 
one or the other group. 

THE EGG 

In most of the recipes given below the whole of the egg 
is used, but by preference the number of yolks should exceed 
that of the whites, as an omelet more tender and of looser 
texture results. Thudicum asserts, that all cookery books, 
up to 1840, omit a number, up to half, of all the whites, and 
Kitchiner says that no art can prevent an omelet being hard, 
if too much of the white be left in it. 

THE PAN 

The pan should be thin, as quick cooking is of importance ; 
it should not be large, as one of the first requisites in a perfect 
omelet is thickness. The greatest care and skill are needed 
to secure an omelet in which the eggs are not liquid, but barely 
set. 

UTENSIL FOR SERVING 

A spoon, or fork is the proper utensil for serving. If a 
knife needs be used the omelet is a failure. 

FRENCH OMELET 

To make a French omelet, break the eggs into a bowl; add 
as many tablespoonfuls of water as there are eggs, counting 
two yolks as a whole egg, and for each three eggs, a dash of 
pepper and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt; beat the eggs 
with a spoon, or fork, until a spoonful can be taken up; then 
strain into another bowl. If a mild flavor of garlic be agree- 
able, rub the inside of the bowl into which the eggs are to be 
broken with a clove of garlic. Have ready in the cleanest, 
smoothest, and thinnest of frying-pans, a tablespoonful of 
melted butter; into this pour the egg mixture, set on a hot 
part of the range for a moment, then, with a thin knife, or 
spatula, separate the cooked portion from the side of the 
frying-pan, and gently rock the pan back and forth, the 
side next the handle raised as the pan is pushed forward 



^ I 



78 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and the opposite side raised as it is brought back, that the 
uncooked part may run down next the pan. When creamy 
throughout, begin at the side of the pan next the handle and 
roll the omelet, letting the pan rest on the stove a moment, 
until the omelet is browned slightly, then add a little butter, 
if needed, and turn on to a hot platter. 

FORMULA FOR A THREE-EGG OMELET 

2 whole eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonftil of salt. 

2 yolks of eggs. Dash of pepper. 

3 tablespoonftils of water. i tablespoonful of butter. 

PUFFY OMELET 

To make a puffy omelet, beat the whites of the eggs until 
dry; beat the yolks until light-colored and thick; add to the 
yolks a tablespoonful of water for each yolk, and one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper for each three 
yolks; mix together thoroughly, and turn Over the beaten 
whites, then cut and fold the whites into the yolk mixture. 
Have the pan buttered and hot as before, turn in the mixture, 
spreading it evenly over the pan. Let stand for about two 
minutes, where there is a moderate heat, then set in the oven 
to cook the top slightly. Just as soon as a knife — thrust into 
the centre of the omelet — comes out nearly clean, remove from 
the oven, cut across the centre of the top, at right angles to 
the handle, fold the part nearest the handle over the other 
part, and turn onto a hot platter. 

Either the plain French omelet, or the puffy omelet may 
be varied by the use of a filling, or a garnish, or both. The 
filling, if fine chopped, as parsley, or other herbs, may be 
mixed with the body of the omelet; though by ** filling" we 
usually mean a little of the desired article chopped fine or 
cut in small cubes, perhaps mixed with a sauce, sprinkled on 
to the surface of the omelet before it is folded. When used 
as a garnish the article is mixed with a sauce and poured 
about the omelet. Green, or canned peas in white sauce, 
mushrooms, fresh or canned, macaroni in tomato-sauce, 
oysters in cream-sauce, fine-chopped ham, or chicken, aspar- 



1= 
II 
^1 



OMELETS 79 

agus-tips, and tomatoes are among the favorite fillings and 
garnishes. 

OMELETS WITH A STARCHY FOUNDATION 

• 

Oftentimes an omelet is desired that will keep in good con- 
dition a short interval after it has been made. In this case, 
a thickening ingredient is added to help hold up the eggs. 
In order to be either wholesome, or palatable, this foundation 
must be thoroughly cooked before the eggs are added. While 
dishes of this class are called omelets, they belong more pro- 
perly to the group of pancakes. 

MRS. GRANT'S OMELET 

1 cup of sweet milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Dash of pepper. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 5 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

With the first five ingredients make a white sauce ; stir this 
gradually into the beaten yolks of the eggs, then fold in the 
whites of the eggs beaten dry. Melt the last two tablespoon- 
ftils of butter in the omelet-pan, pour in the mixture and 
x^ook as a puffy omelet. Fine-chopped ham, chicken, oysters 
parboiled and cut in pieces, mushrooms cut in pieces, etc., 
etc. may be added to the sauce with the yolks of eggs. 

RICE OMELET 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. I cup of warm, boiled rice. 

Beat the eggs, and add the salt and rice ; the grains of rice 
should be whole and each held separately in the egg mixture ; 
if the rice be very dry, add two tablespoonfuls of milk. Cook 
as a puffy omelet. 



CHAPTER III 



Fish and Its Cookery. Frogs and Terrapin 



II f 



Fish. 



Tis very fresh and sweet, Sir — 
The fish was taken but this night." 

— Beaumont and Fletcher. 



' Fish with scales. 



I Shell Fish. 



Bivalves. 



Crustaceans. 



V 



Oysters. 
Clams. 
Scallops . 

Lobsters. 

Crabs. 

Shrimps. 



FROGS. TURTLE. TERRAPIN 

CHEMICAL COMPOSITIONS OF FISH (ATWATER) 

AS PURCHASED 

Protein. 
Refuse. Water, by diff'ence. Fat. 

Bass 51.2 37.4 8.7 2.2 

Bluefish 48.6 40 . 3 9.8 6.3 

Cod, whole ... .29.9 58.5 10.6 .2 

Cod steaks ....9.2 72.4 16.9 .5 

Flounder 61.5 32.6 5.1 .3 

Haddock 5^ -^ 40. o 8.2 .2 

Halibut 17.7 61.9 15. 1 4.4 

Mackerel 44-7 40 -4 10,0 4.2 

Salmon 29.5 48. i 13.5 8.1 

Shad 50.11 35.2 9.2 4.8 

Shad roe 71.2 20.9 3.8 

Smelt 41-9 46.1 10. o i.o 

Spanish 346 44-5 i3-7 6.2 

Brook Trout . .48 . i 40 • 4 9-8 i . i 

80 



Carbohy- 
drates. 


Ash. 


Fuel Value 
per pound. 






•5 


255 






•7 


210 






.8 


215 






1.0 


335 






•5 
.6 


"5 
16s 






.9 

7 

.8 


470 

36s 
600 


2 


6 


•7 
1.5 


380 
600 






1 .0 


230 






1.0 


525 






.6 


230 



FISH AND ITS COOKERY 



8i 



*^^^^'-^V • '.vr>^OC\y '^^^ PRESBRVED AND CANNED 

Protdn. Carbohy- Fuel Value 

Refuse. Water, by diif'ence. Fat. drates. Ash. per pound. 

Salt Cod 24.9 40.2 16.0 .4 .... 18.5 315 

Boneless Salt 

Cod 1.6 54.8 28.6 .3 14.7 545 

Smoked 

Halibut 7.0 46.0 19. 1 14.0 .... 13.9 950 

Salt Mackerel. .19. 7 34.8 13. 9 21.2 .... 10.4 i-iS5 

Canned Salmon. I/* 2 56.8 19.5 7.5 .... 2.0 680 

Canned 

Sardines 23.6 23.7 12.1 .... 5.3 950 

SHELLFISH. FRESH 

Protein. Carbohy- Fuel Value 

Refuse. Water, by diff 'ence. Fat. drates. -Ash. per pound. 

Long Clams 

in shell 4i-9 49 >9 5-o -^ i-i i-5 140 

Round Clams. . .67 . 5 28.0 2.1 .1 1.4 .9 70 

Lobsters in Shell .61.7 30. 7 5.9 .7 .2 .8 140 

Oysters in shell. .81.4 16. i 1.2 .2 .7 .4 45 

Oysters, solid 88.3 6.0 1.3 3.3 i.i 230 

Fish contains all the elements of meat in an easily digested 
form; on this account it is adapted to the needs of old and 
young alike, and especially to sedentary people. In primitive 
times, when each man supplied his own larder at first hand, 
fish-abounding streams were chosen for the abodes of men. 
As peoples grew in culture and refinement their written his- 
tory, both sacred and profane, contains frequent allusions 
to the capture, cooking, and eating of fish. 

It is said that the Emperor Charles V. visited the grave 
of the man who systematically introduced into the Nether- 
lands the preservation of herring by salting, smoking, and 
drying them, as a benefactor of mankind. Lucullus, at great 
expense, connected a lake near Naples with the sea, in which 
he might keep sea-fish alive. We catch a glimpse of the life of 
the age in the passage of sacred history where Simon Peter 
^ys, ** I go a-fishing, " and we marvel at the great draught of 
fishes after the long night of discouragement. What reader 
does not experience a thrill of the satisfaction that must 



82 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

have been felt by those weary men on landing, at sight of 
the "fire of coals and fish laid thereon and bread." 

On account of abundance, many varieties of fish are inex- 
pensive. The price even of the choicest species, barring 
mollusks and crustaceans, in season, is not high, when it is 
compared with the cost of the best cuts of meat. 

Though fish has been a staple in food since the earliest 
times, yet the serving of fish in such form that it can be eaten 
with pleasure by people of delicate and aesthetic tendencies 
is of more recent date. This only affords additional proof 
that the cultivation of a people is determined by the manner 
in which they cook and serve their meals. 

Notwithstanding all the shippers tell us of the conveniences 
of transportation, and of flavor preserved by keeping fish 
packed in ice for some days, we are inclined to be sceptical, 
and fear that housekeepers who dwell far inland, will not find 
in their markets sea-food in prime condition. In the vicinity 
of the Great Lakes, however, excellent white-fish and lake 
trout make up, in part, for this deficiency. Brook trout, 
than which few fish are more highly prized, are plentiful 
in many a mountain stream, and fresh- water lakes are destined 
to be stocked with the black-bass and other edible fishes. In- 
deed, since cultivated trout can be sold at a profit, and the 
supply is said never to equal the demand, there would 
seem to be an opportunity here for a paying business 
venture. 

Of salt-water fish, cod, haddock, and halibut, are the staples. 
Common mackerel appear about the first of April, the Spanish 
about the fifteenth of the same month. Spanish mackerel 
is sold at twenty-five cents per pound, the common, at so 
much a fish, the price depending upon the season and size 
of the fish. Both are very handsome. They are easily dis- 
tinguished by their color and marking. Indeed, from its 
marking the fish takes its name, this being derived from the 
Latin word macula y meaning a spot. The common mackerel 
is usually smaller in size than the Spanish, and the dark blue 
above is covered with many wavy, blackish cross-streaks. 
The Spanish mackerel is bluish and silvery above, with bright 



FISH AND ITS COOKERY 83 

reflections, and upon the sides are many roundish bronze 
spots. 

The huge sword-fish, from which firm slices may be cut, 
is in season from July to September. Bluefish abound in 
May, when deep-sea fishing becomes possible. Frozen salmon 
may be found, in the Eastern markets, during the winter and 
spring, but the season begins in June. Salted salmon is 
especially deserving of mention, for even after the salting 
and freshening processes have been completed, the fish is 
very rich, both in nitrogenous elements and in fat ; it is good 
either boiled, or broiled. 

Salt codfish may be so cooked as to make a most palatable 
and wholesome breakfast or luncheon dish. It is com- 
paratively easy of digestion, and is said to be particularly 
good for children, troubled with complaints incident to hot 
weather. It also acts as a sedative, in cases of dyspepsia 
caused by fermentation. 

Shad are taken at Charleston in January, at Norfolk in 
February, at New York near the last of March, or the first 
of April, and at Boston by the end of April. The fish come 
from the south, running up the rivers from the sea to deposit 
their spawn in fresh water. 

The season for brook- trout begins April first. They come 
just in time to take the place of smelts, which are then no 
longer seasonable. The fishery of white-bait begins in April. 
This delicacy in fish, served at the popular clubs, is made 
fashionable on account of the Ministerial white-bait dinner 
given at Greenwich just before the prorogation of Parliament. 
The labor involved in preparing and cooking this tiny fish 
is a drawback against its large consumption. 

TO DETERMINE THE FRESHNESS OF FISH 

Of fresh fish there is no odor; the flesh is firm, bright, and 
crisp-looking; the eyes are bright, not dull and lustreless, 
and the gills are of a bright red color. 



84 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PREPARATION OF FISH FOR COOKERY 

TO CLEAN FISH 

Fish, either salt or fresh, is the better if it be cleaned and 
drawn immediately on being taken from the water. This 
is emphatically true in the case of fresh- water fish. Fish 
cleaned at the market will need additional attention. Begin 
at the tail and scrape the fish to remove scales. See that 
the flesh be clean close to the backbone. Wash quickly, 
inside and out, but do not let the fish stand in the water, 
drain and dry. 

Let stand, skin side down, upon the ice until time of cooking. 
This, according to Izaak Walton, should be speedy. Mackerel 
and bluefish, in particular, after transportation, even on ice, 
scarcely resemble the same fish, when it is eaten within a 
few hours after it has been taken from the salt water. 

SERVING FISH 

If the fish is to be served whole, leave head and tail intact, 
but remove the eyes and cut off the fins. In whatever way 
the fish be cooked, it should be carefully drained and mounted; 
use parsley or cress most lavishly in its garnishing. 

TO REMOVE THE SKIN 

It is a very simple matter to remove the bones also the 
skin from some kinds of fish, thus leaving the flesh clear an4 
intact. Cut off the fins along the back, and then a strip of 
skin less than half an inch wide down the full length of the 
back; also cut the skin around the head. Dip the fingers 
in salt that they may not slip, then, after loosening the skin 
below the head, draw it off from one side of the fish, by pulling 
gently with one hand and pushing with the back of a knife 
held in the other hand, so as to keep the flesh whole; repeat the 
process on the other side of the fish. 

TO BONE A FISH 

Beginning at the tail, on one side, slip the knife in between 
the flesh and the bone and cleave the flesh from the bone its 



FIU.ET OF FLOUNDER SERVED I^ SILVER CASSEROLE. (See, 



GENERAL WAYS OF COOKING FISH 85 

entire length; this gives one fillet; remove the other in the 
same manner. These fillets may be cooked whole, or cut 
in such pieces as are desired. Halibut cut in transverse 
slices, half an inch thick, is filleted by removing the skin on 
the edge and the single piece of bone from the centre. Each 
slice thus gives four fillets. Fillets of halibut and flounders 
are often sold as "fillets of sole." The sole is not found in 
our waters. The inexpensive flounder, dear to memory 
through the fairy tales of Grimm, will be found when 
filleted and served with tomato, or other piquant sauce, a 
most appetizing tid-bit ; but it is not quite the equal of the 
English sole. The more expensive chicken halibut is con- 
sidered by many superior to sole. Large fillets from cod 
or haddock may be baked on an oiled fish-sheet with an oyster 
or bread-stuffing between and buttered crumbs above. If 
small, they may be marinated, rolled and fastened in shape 
with a small skewer or wooden toothpick. Butter the 
skewers that they may be easily withdrawn after the fish 
is cooked. These fillets may be braised, baked, or, after 
egging and bread-crumbing, fried. 

Frozen fish need to be thawed out in cold water, then 
cooked at once. 

GENERAL WAYS OF COOKING FISH 

Fish may be boiled, braised, baked, broiled, or fried, accord- 
ing to individual fancy, but a certain way is more suitable 
for some varieties than it is for another. Red-blooded fish, 
as salmon, bluefish, and mackerel, in which the fat is dis- 
tributed throughout the fish, being rich and moist, should 
be cooked by other methods than sautding and frying. Any 
white-blooded fish, as cod, haddock, and halibut, in which the 
fat is concentrated in the liver, will bear cooking by these latter 
methods. 

Salmon, which possesses a higher nutritive value than 
meat, chiefly on account of the large proportion of fat in com- 
position, may be cooked in boiling water, which, as a general 
rule, tmless the water be used as stock, is a wasteful way of 
cooking fish. When the white varieties are cooked in water 



"*•.■; 



86 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

they need be supplemented by rich sauces ; and when baked 
they must be basted often, or they will be dry and tasteless. 
All fish, like veal and pork, must be thoroughly cooked, lest 
they be worse than unpalatable, that is, positively inimical to 
health. If cooked too long, however, fish loses flavor 
and is "woolly." 

COOKING FISH IN BOILING LIQUID 

In cooking fish in boiling liquid, two things must be kept 
in view: appearance and nutritive effect. Cold liquid draws 
out the juices, while plunging a fish in boiling water causes 
the skin to contract and crack. 

In consequence, a medium course must be pursued. Lower 
the fish, fastened in an upright position, if whole, on a fish- 
rack, or sheet, or, in the absence of this useful utensil, coiled 
in a frying basket or tied in a piece of cheesecloth, into warm 
liquid and bring quickly to the boiling point ; then let simmer 
until the flesh separates readily from the bones, and no longer. 
After simmering begins cooking will take from five to eight 
minutes a pound, according to the thickness of the fish. 

Let the liquid just cover the fish; add a generous teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice to 
each two quarts of water, or milk and water, or court bouillon. 
When the fish is cooked, let drain over the kettle; dress with 
care on a folded napkin, to absorb any liquid from the fish. 
Garnish plentifully with fresh parsley or cress. Serve with 
Hollandaise, Bechamel, or drawn-butter-sauce. Lobster or 
pickles m ly be added to any of these sauces. Boiled potato 
balls are often served on the dish with the fish. A fish-kettle 
with rack or sheet is of great convenience in draining and 
removing a fish whole and shapely to the platter. 

BROILING FISH 

Fish that when dressed presents a thin flat surface, par- 
ticularly those varieties in which the oil is distributed through- 
out the flesh, as shad, bluefish and mackerel, are usually 
broiled. Without doubt the best results in broiling are 



^ 



BROILING FISH 87 

obtained with the charcoal fire; but electricity, or gas, which 
may be extinguished as soon as the cooking is done, is often 
most convenient. The lower oven of a gas-range furnishes a 
most excellent place for broiling a live lobster or "planking" 
a fish. Before broiling a fish, brush well with butter or oil, 
and be very careful that the fire be not too hot. After the 
first few seconds, the fish should be drawn away from the 
fire and cooked even more slowly. Many varieties of fish, 
if they be subjected to a fierce heat, become hard and indigest- 
ible. Mackerel and bluefish of fair size require fifteen or 
twenty minutes' slow cooking. Baste with butter once or 
twice. The latter part of the cooking, particularly when the 
fish is thick, will be most successfully carried on in the oven. 
The broiler needs be placed in the oven over a dripping- 
pan. Have the broiler hot and well oiled before the fish 
is put in it, and turn every ten seconds in cooking the flesh 
side, oftener in cooking the skin side, to avoid burning. 
Brush halibut or other dry fish generously with oil or butter, 
roll in soft bread-crumbs and broil. With* a sharp knife 
carefully separate the fish from the broiler (double- wire broiler) 
on both sides, then slide onto the dish. Spread with maitre 
d'hotel butter. A planked fish is broiled or roasted without 
! turning; after the first ten seconds, it should be withdrawn 
I some distance from the fire. The plank should be heated 
I and oiled before the fish is fastened to it. 

COURT BOUILLON 

I stalk of celery cut fine. 3 or 4 cloves. 

I carrot cut fine. 1-4 a small pepper without seeds. 

I onion cut fine. 1-2 a bay leaf. 

j 2 quarts of water. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of cider vinegar. Fish trimmings if at hand. 

I 3 tablespoonfuls of butter or 2 sprigs of parsley. 
' drippings. 

! Saut6 the vegetables in the butter ; add the other ingredients, 
let boil and skim, then cool a little and proceed as above. 
This liquid may be used in making the sauce, or it may be 
strained and kept for future use like any stock. 



f^.-, s 



w 



88 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BAKING FISH 

Fish may be baked whole, in large, thick slices, or in fillets. 
The natural dryness of white-blooded fish must be obviated 
as much as possible by basting. Shad, halibut, salmon, 
bluefish, whitefish, and bass are among those commonly 
baked. A fish to be served whole is usually trussed in an 
upright position. A fish-sheet is of great assistance in remov- 
ing the fish in perfect shape to the platter. A very good sheet 
may be made by any tinner and sold for twenty-five cents, 
each, at fifty per cent, profit. Select a piece of tin smaller 
than the baking-pan, to facilitate basting; perforate with a 
dozen, or more round holes, half an inch in diameter, in alter- 
nate rows opposite each other; finish with or without a wired 
edge; wire handles at the ends are a necessity. 

STUFFING 

A baked fish is usually stuffed ; after the body is filled with 
the stuffing, but not too full, as the material will swell, sew 
up the opening with a trussing needle. Usually gashes are 
cut in the sides of the fish into which strips of fat pork are laid. 

TRUSSING 

The fish may be trussed in a circle, or in the shape of the 
letter S. To truss in a circle, pass the tail through the sockets 
of the eyes, then run a steel skewer dipped in melted butter 
through the tail, letting the point rest on the baking-dish; 
the head will hold it in place. To skewer in the shape of an 
S, run the trussing-needle, threaded with a double cord, 
through the head, middle of the body, and the tail, shorten 
the cord until the shape desired is secured, then tie securely. 
Brush over the fish-sheet or bottom of the pan with oil, or 
butter before the fish is set in place; or slices of fat pork may 
be used. Dredge the fish with salt, pepper, and flour. Put 
slices of pork on the top. Baste with the drippings from the 
pork, adding a little hot water if needed. Salmon is often 
enveloped in an oiled paper before baking, as thereby the 
tempering of the heat preserves the color. 



FRYING AND SAUTEING FISH 89 

FRIED FISH 

Most fish are very delicate in savor, and this is conserved 
by cooking in no way as in frying; that is, if the frying be 
properly done. Small fish and fillets are most suitable for 
frying. After the fish are properly cleaned, washed, and 
dried, season with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then egg-and- 
breadcrumb. However, if one has not mastered the art of 
frying, and fear lest she send fat-soaked fish to the table, do 
not, on any account, attempt to cook fish in this way; for the 
disorganized products evolved from fat raised to a high tem- 
perature are neither appetizing nor wholesome. 

In fr3ring fish, attention must be given to three points: 
every part should be covered with the egg and crumbs, that 
a fat-proof covering be formed ; at the moment of immersion, 
the fat should be smoking hot, and this heat should be well 
maintained until the fish is cooked ; and, lastly, the fish should 
be thoroughly drained after the frying has been completed. 
»Serve on a folded napkin, or dish-paper. 

SAUTED FISH 

Small fish, as brook-trout, or fish cut in pieces, as halibut, 
aresaut6d. Dry fish, like halibut, needs stand in a marinade 
some time before cooking; wipe the fish dry, season with salt 
and pepper, then roll in flour, qt in sifted dry breadcrumbs; 
cook in hot fat, tried out of salt pork, until of a golden brown, 
then turn with a broad-bladed knife and cook on the other 
side. There should be little fat in the pan, just enough to 
cover well the pan and keep the fish from clinging. Garnish 
with parsley and slices of lemon. 

SPECIAL DISHES OF FISH COOKED ACCORDING TO THE 
PREVIOUS DIRECTIONS, WITH VARIATIONS 

BOILED HALIBUT 

Cook a three-pound slice, thick rather than long, of halibut, 
according to directions previously given, about twenty-five 
minutes ; drain and remove the skin and bone from the centre. 
Place on a napkin; garnish with potato croquettes and par- 



90 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

boiled oysters. Serve with Hollandaise, Bechamel, or drawn- 
butter sauce. Boiled halibut presents a good appearance, 
as it does not fall to pieces readily. 

BOILED SALMON 

Surround a middle cut of salmon, boiled according to prev- 
ious directions, with potato-balls; fill the open space in the 
fish with parsley or cress, and sprinkle the potatoes with a 
little of the same, chopped fine. Serve with Bernaise, Hol- 
landaise, or other sauce. For a grand occasion, serve with 
nonpariel sauce, i.e., a Hollandaise sauce to which have been 
added lobster-butter, white of egg in cubes, and mushrooms, 
cut in pieces. When fresh salmon is not in the market, occa- 
sionally frozen salmon, which sells for eighteen or twenty 
cents per pound, is very acceptable. Thaw in cold water 
and cook as soon as it is thawed. 

BOILED COD 

The head and shoulders of cod are considered the best part 
for boiling; the tail of the fish is thin and apt to become over- 
cooked before the thicker part is cooked. 

When fish is boiled in milk and water, the acid needs be 
omitted. When cod, in particular, is properly "boiled," 
the juices, in jelly-like consistency, may be seen between the 
easily flaked fish. 

SMELTS COOKED IN BOILING LIQUID 

Smelts are often boiled. Cook only few at a time from 
five to eight minutes, after the water begins to boil, according 
to size. Arrange in a pyramid, the largest at the base, on a 
folded napkin. Garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve 
with Tartare sauce. 

STEAMED BROOK-TROUT, OR OTHER PISH 

• Prepare as for boiling; steam fifteen minutes to the povtnd. 
Serve with Hollandaise, Tartare, or horse-radish sauce. 



CHARTREUSE OF SALMON. 



BONED CODFISH BAKED WITH FORCEMEAT. (See pBge g 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. (See 



BAKED FISH 91 



MATELOT OP HADDOCK AND OYSTERS 

3 or 4 pounds of haddock. 4 yolks of eggs. 

I pint of oysters. Salt and pepper. 

4 large mild onions. i lemon. 

Remove the fillets from the haddock; cut into pieces three 
inches by two. Cover the head,- tail, and trimmings with 
the liquor from the oysters and water; add a slice or two of 
onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of carrot; let simmer to form 
a broth. Boil the onions, separately, until nearly tender, 
then cut in even slices. Put a layer of onion in a saucepan ; 
upon this arrange the fillets of fish and the oysters, and dust 
with salt and pepper; add the jtdce of the lemon and the rest 
of the onion slices; strain the broth over the whole and close 
the pan tightly; let simmer very gently until the fillets are 
tender, then strain off the broth. Arrange the fillets on a 
hot dish, and pour over them the broth, thickened with the 
yolks of four eggs. Do not let the broth boil after the yolks, 
carefully diluted with a little of the broth, have been added. 
Fresh-water fish or sea-fish, other than haddock, prepared 
in this way are excellent. The oysters may be omitted. 

BAKED HALIBUT 

Select a solid piece of halibut weighing about three pounds; 
let stand in a marinade about an hour, (see page 28) drain, 
brush over with butter, or cover the top with slices of salt 
pork. Bake about forty minutes, until the flesh separates 
readily from the bone, basting every ten minutes. Remove 
the sldn and after sliding the fish onto the serving-dish garnish 
with a pur^e of peas. (Dried peas, or peas too old for other 
cooking may be used.) Serve with any of the sauces for 
baked fish. 

SALMON BAKED IN PAPER 

Wrap a middle cut of salmon, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and lemon juice, in a large sheet of buttered paper, and pin 
the ends together firmly. Melt one-fourth a cup of butter 
ia one-fourth a cup of hot water, and pour over the fish in a 



92 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

baking pan. Cover and bake one hour in a slow oven, basting 
every ten minutes. Remove skin and serve with Bemaise 
sauce. Garnish with parsley and shrimps. 

BAKED HALIBUT STEAKS 

Have two halibut steaks cut an inch and a half in thickness. 
Let stand in a marinade an hour or more. Lay thin slices 
of salt-pork upon a fish-sheet. Place one of the steaks upon 
the pork. Dip oysters, — about half a pint will be required, — 
in melted butter, then in cracker-crumbs, and place upon 
the fish to cover the entire surface. Place the second steak 
upon the oysters, season, and lay slices of pork on the top. 
Bake thirty-five or forty minutes, basting three or four 
times with the juice in the pan, or with butter melted in hot 
water. A few minutes before the fish is to be taken from 
the oven, remove the pork and cover the top with a cup of 
cracker-crumbs that have been stirred into one-third a cup 
of melted butter. Serve, when the crumbs are browned, 
with oysters, or HoUandaise sauce and potato-balls. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH 

(black-bass, pickerel, bluefish, haddock, etc.) 

5 oz. (i-4 a loaOof bread crumbs. 2 egg yolks. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 1-4 a teaspoonful, each of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped onion or and pepper. 

I teaspoonful of onion juice. 1-4 a cup of melted butter. 

Soak the bread from which the crust has been taken in 
cold water fifteen minutes; put in a bit of cheesecloth and 
wring as dry as possible; add the other ingredients and use. 
If a moist stuffing be desired, omit the tgg yolks. A tea- 
spoonful; each, of chopped capers and pickles are often used, 
especially in stuffing a bluefish. 

BAKED HADDOCK, COD, ETC. 

Haddock, which is very dry, is of ten, basted, at last, with a 
cup of white or tomato-sauce ; after the last basting sprinkle 
the fish with fine soft bread-crumbs, moistened with melted 



BAKED FISH 93 

butter. Bake until the crumbs are browned. For further 
particulars, see general directions for baking fish. 

OYSTBR STUFFING 

(for cod, haddock, bass, pickerel, or slices of 

halibut) 

1-2 a cup qf breadcrumbs. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

r-2 a cup of cracker-crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-2 a tablespoonful of chopped 

x-2 a pint of oysters. parsley if desired. 

Oyster liquor to moisten. 

Stir the crumbs into the melted butter; add the seasonings, 
the oysters, bearded or not, and liquor to moisten. 

BONED CODFISH BAKED WITH FORCEMEAT 

Clean a codfish. Split the fish down the side opposite the 
backbone. Slip a thin sharp knife under the backbone at 
the tail and separate the bone from the flesh the entire length 
of the fish and pick out any small bones that appear. Have 
Heady a forcemeat, made of one cup and a half of pounded 
fish (another cod, piece of halibut, flounder, or salmon if 
a "pink" dish is desired), the whites of two eggs, salt and 
pepper, and two thirds a cup of cream. (See Fish and Chicken 
Forcemeats, page 257.) Lay the fish, skin side down, on a 
buttered fish-sheet, and skewer the head and tail standing 
upwards. Season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. With 
kmng-haig and tube, fill in the space thus formed with the 
forcemeat, making several parallel rows close to one another. 
Bake, basting with fish-stock, or butter melted in hot water, 
about twenty-five minutes. Slide from the sheet to the serv- 
ing-dish, and sprinkle with sifted yolk of egg. Fill the mouth 
and eyes with parsley. To serve, cut through the centre 
and entire length of the fish, then, beginning at the head, 
cut out square pieces upon one side and then on the other. 
Serve with any fish-sauce. 



94 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



FILLETS OP FLOUNDER WITH GREEN PEAS 

Dress and cut three flounders into a dozen fillets; dip the 
fillets in melted butter, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon 
juice; or let stand in a marinade an hour or more. Fold 
each fillet around a bit of raw pared potato (this will keep 
the fillet in the desired shape) and arrange in a baking-dish; 
half cover with hot fish-stock, made of the trimmings, and 
cook in the oven about ten minutes. Dress the fillets, one 
overlapping another in a circle, with green peas, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and butter, in the centre. Sift a cooked 
egg-yolk between the fillets. Thicken the stock with roux 
for sauce. Remove the potato before serving. 

TURBANS OP HALIBUT WITH POTATO BALLS 

Have two slices of halibut cut half an inch thick; remove the 
skin and bone, thus securing eight fillets. Dip in melted 
butter; squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon, a little 
onion juice and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Commencing 
with the widest end, roll each fillet into a " turban " and fasten 
by running through each a buttered wooden toothpick. Bake 
about twenty minutes, basting with hot stock, or butter 
melted in hot water. Arrange crown shape on a serving-dish. 
Fill the centre with boiled potato-balls, dressed with salt, 
butter, and chopped parsley. Serve with HoUandaise or 
other fish-sauce. 

TURBANS OP HALIBUT BAKED VS^ITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Prepare as above; baste during cooking with tomato-sauce 
and serve with additional tomato-sauce. 

TURBANS OF HALIBUT WITH OYSTER PORCEMBAT 

Prepare a cup of oyster forcemeat, quennelle, or cream, as 
desired. Spread the fillets with the forcemeat, then roll 
and bake as before. Or roll each fillet aroimd a plump oyster, 
and then bake as usual. Let the fillets stand in a marinade 
an hour before rolling. 



Gamish: Mashed p 



FILLETS OF FLOUNDER AND GREEN PEAS. (See js 



BOILED SALMON, POTATO BALLS AND CRESS, (See 



BROILED FISH 95 



PLANKED SHAD, OR LAKE WHITE PISH 

Fasten the fish, cleaned and split down the back, on a 
heated oak or other hardwood plank. Planks are made for 
the purpose one inch thick and of various sizes; the medium 
size for a three-pound fish costs about fifty cents. Brush 
over the fish with oil or melted butter and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Bake about twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 
Baste frequently with melted butter. Square planks with 
a support on the back that admits of standing before an open 
fire are prepared. In this case the fish needs be fastened 
to the plank with a few tacks and set in a dripping-pan. This 
style is designed for camp cookery. The planks need be 
well seasoned and heated before using. The lower oven of 
a gas-range affords an admirable place for cooking a planked 
fish. When the fish is cooked, fill the space between the 
fish and the edge of the board with duchess potatoes. Shape 
the potato by means of a forcing-bag and star-tube; brush 
over with beaten yolk of egg, diluted with milk, and let brown 
in the oven. Set the plank on a serving-dish, concealing the 
edge with parsley and radishes. Serve with maitre d'hotel 
butter. Spread this upon the fish, or melt over hot water 
and serve in a dish apart. 

BROILED MACKEREL 

Cut off the fins, split, dress and, if convenient, remove the 
backbone; broil in the usual manner; dish on a hot platter, 
or on a platform of mashed potato shaped to the fish. Spread 
over the fish a partly melted maitre d'hotel, anchovy, or 
green butter, or Livoumaise sauce. Garnish with slices of 
lemon and serve with sliced cucumbers. 

BROILED SHAD, OR OTHER PISH ROE 

Let the roe stand in marinade an hour; broil very slowly 
about ten minutes, basting several times with melted butter. 
Serve with maitre d*hotel butter. Garnish with lemon quar- 
ters. 



96 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BROILED BROOK-TROUT 

Cut off the fins, draw by the gills, push the handle of a 
wooden spoon along the backbone of each fish on the inside, 
to loosen the blood-vessel that lies along the spine; wash and 
wipe dry; cut small incisions on both sides, season with salt 
and pepper, baste with oil, and broil in a double-broiler from 
ten to fifteen minutes, according to size of the fish. Turn 
every few seconds while broiling, to avoid burning the skin. 
Hold the broiler farther from the fire after the first few seconds. 

FRIED SMELTS 

To clean the smelts, spread open the outer gills, then, with 
the thumb and forefinger, take hold of the inner gills and pull 
gently; the parts unfit for food are all attached to these inner 
gills, and come away together, leaving the smelt in perfect 
shape. Rinse thoroughly and wipe dry. If the smelts are 
smadi, dip in milk, then roll in flour, or in egg and bread- 
crumbs; string through the gills on silver skewers, three on 
a skewer, and fry in deep fat, a skewerful at a time. Serve 
on a folded napkin with sauce Tartare. If the smelts be large, 
or are to be used as garnish for a baked fash, fasten tails in 
mouths with a wooden toothpick, egg-and-breadcrumb and 
fry in deep fat, three, or four at a time. (See Directions for 
Frying Fish, page 89.) 

FRIED BASS WITH BACON 

Scale and wash the fish thoroughly and cut into pieoes; 
season with pepper and salt, roll in flour, then in beaten eggs, 
and, lastly, in fine breadcrumbs. Fry to a golden brown 
in deep fat, smoking hot. Fry in a separate pan, or cook 
in the oven, in a double-broiler over a dripping-paa, a slice of 
bacon for each piece of fish; lay the bacon on the fish, and 
garnish with parsley. Serve with mashed potatoes and 
sliced tomatoes, or with cucumbers. 

FRESH CODFISH, PRIED 

Select middle cuts of fish in slices about an inch thick; 
shape in discs by fastening the ends securely with wooden 



FRIED FISH 97 

toothpicks dipped in melted butter. Season with salt, pepper, 
onion and lemon juice, and set aside in a cool place to become 
thoroughly seasoned. Cover with breadcrumbs, then with 
beaten egg, and, lastly, with crumbs and fry in deep fat, smok- 
ing hot, five, or six minutes. Drain on soft paper. Serve 
with Tartare or tomato-sauce. 

STUFFED FILLETS OF FLOUNDERS 

Take fillets from a flounder weighing two pounds and a 
half and let stand in marinade an hour. Spread on one-half 
of each fillet a tablespoonful of mashed potato (about one cup 
should be prepared) mixed with the beaten yolk of an egg 
and seasoned with one tablespoonful of butter, one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. Fold the other 
half of each fillet over the potato, cover with crumbs, dip in 
the white of the egg beaten with two tablespoonfuls of water, 
and again cover with crumbs ; insert a short piece of macaroni 
in the pointed end of each fillet and fry in deep fat. Dram 
on soft paper, and cover the macaroni with a paper frill. 
Garnish with lemon and parsley and serve with onion pur6e, or 
tomato sauce. 

FILLETS OF FLOUNDER STUFFED WITH FORCEMEAT 

Make a cream, or quennelle foicemeat, using half a pound 
(one cup) of fish, weighed or measured after passing through 
the wire sieve. Use in the preceding recipe in the place of 
the potato. Serve as above, or with sauce Tartare. Or, 
instead of frying the fillets, put them in a baking-dish with 
a little fish-stock, or salted and acidulated water, and bake 
about fifteen minutes. If stock be used, thicken as for a 
sauce, or use any sauce served with baked fish. 

SHAD-ROE CROQUETTES 

Cook the roe in boiling salted and acidulated water fifteen 
minutes, drain and mash. For each pint of roe, beat together 
one-fourth a cup, each, of cornstarch and butter, and cook 
in a cup and a half of hot cream ten minutes; add the 
juice of half a lemon, half a teaspoonful, each, of salt and 



98 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

paprika, a few drops of onion juice, one egg, beaten, the roe, 
and, if at hand, a few mushrooms, sauted and chopped; cool 
in a shallow dish, shape into croquettes, egg-and-breadcrumb 
and fry in deep fat. 

SHAD ROE, MARYLAND STYLE 

Put two or three roes in a well-buttered baking-dish ; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and half cover with broth; add two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, cut in pieces; cover the pan and cook 
in the oven fifteen minutes. Keep hot on the range until 
the stock is reduced to one cup, or less. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs, add one cup of thin cream and stir into the hot 
sauce very slowly; cook over hot water, until thickened 
" slightly, adding, meanwhile, two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
also add salt and pepper, if required, and pour over the roes. 
Garnish with thin slices of broiled bacon. Other roe than 
shad may be cooked in the same manner. 

BROOK-TROUT IN PAPER CASES 

Dress half a dozen brook-trout, weighing about four ounces 
each, without destroying shape. Fill with forcemeat and 
secure the slit made in dressing. Brush over with melted 
butter, or olive-oil, pieces of paper and put a very thin shav- 
ing of salt-pork in the centre of each, with a trout above; 
dust with salt and pepper, then fold the paper and fasten 
closely with a string. Bake about twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. Remove the string and serve in the papers. Pass 
at the same time Hollandaise, Bechamel, or tomato-sauce. 

BASS FORCEMEAT FOR BROOK TROUT 

Pound in a mortar half a pound of bass from which the 
skin and bones have been taken ; add to the fish while potind- 
ing the whites of two eggs, a little at a time, and pass through 
the sieve; add gradually half a cup of cream. Season with 
salt and pepper. Use a forcing-bag and plain tube in filling 
the fish. 



FRIED FISH 99 

SALMON MOUSSES 

1-2 a pound of uncooked salmon. 3 yolks of eggs. 

1-2 a cup of thick tomato, or Velout6 

sauce. 4 whites of eggs. 

12 raw oysters, bearded. Salt and pepper. 

Weigh the fish after the skin and bones have been removed. 
Pound the salmon in a mortar to a smooth pulp; add while 
pounding the other ingredients, except the white of the eggs. 
Beard the oysters and remove the button-shaped muscle 
before adding to the mixture. Pass the mixture through a 
pur6e sieve, and add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Turn into small bomb moulds well buttered and 
decorated with truffles if desired. Put the mixture into the 
moulds very carefully, that the moulds may be filled perfectly. 
Set the moulds into timbale moulds, that they may stand 
upright; surround with hot water and let poach in the oven, 
or on top of the stove, about fifteen minutes, or until firm to the 
touch. Unmould and pour around them a cup and a half 
of white-sauce, made of stock prepared with the trimmings 
of the fish and oysters, a little cream, lemon juice, and white 
roux. Just before serving beat into the sauce the remaining 
e^ yolk. 

TURBAN OF HALIBUT WITH LOBSTER 

1-2 a pound (i cup) of halibut freed 

from skin and bone. Whites of 3 eggs. 

1-4 a pound of panada (1-2 a cup.) j cup of double cream. 

1-3 a cup of butter. i lobster. 

Salt and pepper. i 1-2 cups of Velout^ sauce. 

Pound the halibut, which should weigh a full half-poimd after 
it has been freed from skin and bone, to a smooth paste, addirig 
meanwhile, the white of an egg, gradually, then press through 
a pur^ sieve. Cook bread, soaked in water and squeezed 
dry, with milk to a paste; stir and cook until the mixture 
forms a ball, then take out half a cup and add to this the 
butter, salt and paprika, the halibut and whites of eggs ; then 
pass again through a pur^e-sieve. Beat in gradually the 
cream. Poach in a buttered border-mould, sprinkled with 
lobster coral, about fifteen minutes, or until firm. Turn from 



160 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the mould and fill in the centre with the meat of a small lobster, 
cut in cubes and heated in the velout^ sauce. 

RECIPES FOR SERVING CURED FISH 
BOILED FINNAN-HADDIE 

(mild smoked, dried haddock) 

Wash the fish thoroughly; let soak half an hour in cold 
water, skin side up; cover with water "just off the boil," 
let stand fifteen minutes, then drain carefully and wipe 
dry; brush over with butter or olive -oil and broil over a 
rather dull fire about fifteen minutes. Turn on to a hot 
platter, dot with bits of butter, here and there, sprinkle with 
the juice of half a lemon and serve at once. 

FINNAN-HADDIE, A LA DELMONICO 

Prepare as before^ then, when dry, remove skin a-^d bones 
and separate into flakes. Put the flaked fish into a buttered 
serving-dish and pour over it a thin white-sauce equal in 
quantity to the fish; cover with buttered crumbs and bake 
in a hot oven long enough to brown the crumbs. 

PICKED-UP CODFISH 

Let one pint of salt codfish, picked in tiny pieces, stand 
covered with cold water several hours, then drain, pressing 
out the water. Add a pint of rich cfeamy milk, and when 
scalded stir in one-fourth a cup of flour mixed to a smooth 
paste with one-fourth a cup of milk; stir constantly until the 
boiling point is reached, then let cook over hot water ten 
minutes; just before serving stir in two eggs slightly beaten. 

SARDINES WITH SPINACH 

I cup of fresh grated breadcrumbs. Sardines. 
1-4 a cup of butter. 4 "hard-boiled" eggs. 

I peck of spinach. Salt and pepper. 

Broth if needed. 

Heat the crumbs in the melted butter; add the cooked 
spinach, chopped fine, and the flesh (skin and bones rejected) 



RECIPES FOR CURED FISH loi 

of a dozen sardines; season to taste with salt and pepper; 
add hot broth if needed and thoroughly reheat. Form into 
an oblong on a serving-dish. Put sardines, from which the 
oil has been carefully wiped, over the top and hard-boiled 
eggs, cut into slices, around the mound. Serve as a luncheon 
dish. Lemon slices are a fitting accompaniment. 

SALT CODFISH BALLS 

6 medium-sized potatoes. i ctip of raw salt-codfish. 

I ^g. Salt and pepper. 

Fat for Frying. 

Cut the pared potatoes into quarters; put the codfish, 
picked into tiny bits, above the potatoes in a saucepan and 
pour boiling water about (not over) the potatoes. Do 
not quite cover them with the water. Cook until 
tender. Drain off the water, set the saucepan, covered 
with a cloth, on the back of the range, to dry the potatoes. 
Mash thoroughly — a potato-ricer is the best utensil for this 
purpose. 

The fish should be shaken from the potatoes, as it will not 
readily pass through the ricer. Add salt, if needed, and pepper 
to taste. 

Beat an egg until white and yolk are well mixed; add 
gradually a little of the fishball mixture, and, when blended, 
return to that in the saucepan and beat thoroughly. Shape 
the mixture with the hands into smooth balls, pressing lightly 
into shape. Fry in deep fat, smoking hot, to an amber color. 
Use a frying-basket and cook not more than five at a time. 
Reheat the fat after each frying. Avoid the use of fat that 
has been heated many times. Serve with mustard, or with 
horseradish, tomato, or Tartare sauce. 

PLAIN ANCHOVIES 

, Let the anchovies soak in cold water about two hours; 
dry on a cloth, and split open, using the hands, or a silver- 
plated knife. Discarding the bones, arrange the halves 
on a dish, and surround with fine-chopped white of egg and 
parsley. Serve with oil and lemon juice. 



I02 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



STUFFED ANCHOVIES 

Prepare the anchovies as above ; pound a little cooked fish 
of any kind at hand to a paste, add an equal bulk of fine, soft 
bread-crumbs, and stir in yolks of eggs to form a paste; put 
a little of this mixture, seasoned to taste, between the halves 
of a fish; egg-and-breadcrumb, or dip into batter, and fry 
to a delicate color in deep fat. Garnish with parsley. 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL 

Let soak in cold water twelve hours skin side up. Drain 
and wipe dry. Brush over with oil or butter. Broil in a 
well-oiled broiler, principally on the flesh side, basting with 
oil or butter once or twice. Remove carefully to the serving- 
dish and pour over half or three-fourths a cup of hot cream. 
Sprinkle with fine-chopped parsley. 

SALTED SALMON BROILED 

Let stand in cold water at least twenty-four hours, thirty- 
six hours is better. Cook as broiled salt mackerel. Salted 
salmon is particularly good when boiled and served with an 
egg-sauce and plain-boiled potatoes. 

RECIPES FOR FISH RECHAUFFES 

CHARTREUSE OF SALMON 

I cup of rice.' 1-4 a cup of butter. 

3 cups of milk, or stock, or equal 

parts of each or water. i pound of cooked salmon. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. Salt and pepper. * 

I tablespoonful of curry powder. i teaspoonful of onion jtiice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

Parboil the rice in plenty of water five minutes; drain and 
add the salt and liquid; let steam until nearly tender, theij 
lightly stir in the butter, creamed with the curry-powder and 
onion juice, and steam until tender; line a two-quart mould, 
buttered, with the rice; fill the centre with the salmon, flaked 
and seasoned with the salt, pepper, and lemon juice; cover 



FISH RECHAUFFES 103 

the fish with rice and let steam half an hour. Serve with 
drawn-butter sauce. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
eighths, or add the eggs to the sauce. 

FISH CAKES 

(remnants of any fresh fish) 

Pass hot boiled potatoes through a ricer, or vegetable- 
press; season with salt and pepper, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and one egg, beaten, to each pint of potatoes and, beat 
thoroughly ; a perforated wooden spoon is good for the purpose. 
Add an equal amount of cooked fish, flaked, either hot or cold, 
two or three tablespoonfuls of egg-sauce, if any remain, 
or a little more butter, and, when thoroughly mixed, shape 
into flat cakes. Put slices of bacon into a hot frying-pan 
and turn each slice in a spiral fashion while cooking. Saut^ 
the fish-cakes in the hot fat, after removing the bacon to soft 
paper to drain, first on one side and then on the other; place 
a well-poached egg on the top of each cake, curls of bacon 
between and parsley with a radish in the centre. 

FISH CHOPS 

(canned salmon, or any remnants op cooked fish) 

If canned salmon be used, drain the oil from the can, remove 
the skin and bones and pick the fish fine with a silver fork; 
add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and a dash of paprika. 
Make a cup of white-sauce, using two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and one-fourth a cup of flour — (double the usual quantity of 
flour); add the fish and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
When the mixture is thoroughly cold, form into chops. Egg- 
and-breadcrumb them, adding a little chopped parsley to the 
crumbs. Put a piece of macaroni into the end of the chop, to 
represent the chop-bone, and fry in deep fat. Arrange a 
crouton of bread in the centre of a serving-dish; upon this 
place a dish filled with sauce Tartare, and set the chops against 
and aroimd the bread. 



I04 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PISH A LA CRBME 

Prepare a duchess potato mixture, or use plain mashed 
potatoes, well-seasoned and beaten; shape the potato into an 
oval or circular wall on a serving-dish that will bear the heat 
of the oven; roll part of the potato into small balls and set 
these close together on the top of the wall, brush over the 
potato with the yolk of an egg, beaten slightly and diluted 
with a tablespoonful of milk. Have ready an equal bulk of 
cold cooked fish, flaked, and white-sauce. In making the 
sauce use fish-stock, or milk, or half and half; add any egg 
left after brushing over the potato. Put alternate layers of 
sauce and fish inside the wall. Cover the top with half a cup 
of cracker-crumbs, mixed with one-fourth a cup of melted 
butter. Set the dish in the oven over hot water about fifteen 
minutes, oi unti! the crumbs and potatoes are delicately 
browned. 

FISH IN CURRY SAUCE 

Almost any variety of cold cooked fish separated into flakes, 
makes a very appetizing dish, if it be allowed to stand (over 
hot water) while it is slowly heated in a hot curry-sauce. 
White-stock from fish or fowl, or milk, is needed in the sauce. 
A slice of onion may or may not be sautdd in the butter; a 
very little lemon juice supples the mild acid so acceptable in 
curries. 

FISH TURBOT (MRS. WILLIAM B. SEWALL, BOSTON) 

Four pounds of codfish. i slice of onion. 

Salt and pepper. i sprig of parsley. 

1-4 a pound of flour ( I cup). 1-2 a pound of butter. 

I quart of milk. 2 eggs. 

A sprig of thyme. Grated cheese. 

Cook the fish in boiling, salted acidulated water until the 
flesh separates easily from the bone; drain, remove the skin 
and bones and separate into flakes while hot. Stir the flour 
mixed with milk to pour into a quart of milk, scalded with the 
thyme, onion, and parsley; cook in a double-boiler to a smooth 
paste, stirring meanwhile, then strain, and add the butter and 



HADDOCK. STUFFED AND BAKED (Set pages 



SHELL-FISH 105 

the beaten eggs. Put a layer of fish into a buttered gratin- 
dish, then a layer of sauce, and so continue until fish and sauce 
are used. Have sauce for the last layer; cover with grated 
cheese and brown in the oven. 

SHELL-FISH 

BIVALVES 

"We search the ocean's clear blue depths, 
We tempt with bait and hook; 
And close-lipped bivalves force to speak 
In measures for our book. '* 

OYSTERS 

Shell-fish, like fish unprotected by shells, are classed 
as white, or red fleshed. When fresh, white-fleshed shell-fis^, 
of which oysters are the principal variety, are comparatively 
easy of digestion, while the red-fleshed lobsters and shrimps 
are even more difficult of digestion than ^re salmon and blue- 
fish. 

Oysters are in season from September to May, They ^re 
sold in the shell by the dozen or peck, or, after removal 
from the shell, by the quart. There are about fifty oysters 
in a quart. The freshness of an oyster is of first consideration, 
and, when possible, it is well to buy them in the sheljs. For 
transportation in bulk, after removal from the shell, pre- 
servatives are used. On this account the value of oysters, 
as usually purchased, for the use of those convalescent after 
sickness is doubtful. 

The two valves of the oyster's shell are somewhat dissimilar ; 
the left, or lower valve, is deeper and more capacious; this is 
the half of the shell from which raw oysters are served; by 
a calcareous growth from this valve, the oyster is attached to 
foreign bodies. The two halves are held together by an adduc- 
tor muscle, each end of which rests in a slight depression in 
the valve. This muscle is the white button-shaped part of 
the oyster; it is tough and indigestible, as are also the edges, 
or gills, of the oyster, and both are often removed before 
cooking. When so treated the oyster is said to be bearded. 



to6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Ovsters are found in all seas at a short distance from shore. 
The favourite habitat is the tranquil waters of a bay formed 
by the mouth of a large river. Oysters from Chesapeake 
Bay are most esteemed in this country. Those taken from 
the coast of New Jersey and Long Island Sound are also in 
favor. 

In the New York markets, the small blue points, taken 
from the southern shores of Long Island, are in demand for 
service on the half-shell. In the Boston markets, Providence 
River and Cape Cod oysters are quite generally used. At the 
present day we have very few natural oysters; nearly all are 
the result of cultivation, — the resulting stock, it is said, being 
superior to the natural oyster. 

Oysters are not very nutritious; they are eaten more as a 
** provocative to appetite" than for their food value. 

TO OPEN OYSTERS 

Push a thin flat knife under the right, or upper valve of 
the oyster, and cut the adductor muscle. Then the right 
valve may be lifted up and separated from the lower valve 
that contains the oyster. Put the oysters into a coUander 
over a bowl; pour over each quart a generous half-cup of 
water; inspect the oysters, one by one, to see that no bit of 
shell still adheres. Save the liquor to use with the oysters, 
or in making fish-stock, or sauce. Pour off the liquor carefully, 
as sand is liable to be found at the bottom. 

CLAMS 

Clams are dug with a rake when the tide is out, in the 
gravelly mud of river mouths, the beds being exposed at low 
water. They are found about a foot below the surface. When 
cooked, the harder part of the clam is quite indigestible. When 
this part is used in cookery it needs to be chopped, or, better 
still, discarded entirely, after it has yielded its juices to a 
dish. The variety known as Little Neck clams is served raw 
in place of oysters, when these are out of season and clams 
can be procured. 



RECIPES FOR SHELL-FISH 107 



SCALLOPS 

The only portion of this bivalve (scallops) that is eaten is 
the muscle of the shell. This corresponds to the adductor 
muscle of the oyster, differing, however, in point of tenderness. 
Scallops are in season from October to April. They have a 
delicate sweetish taste, and are considered a delicious morsel. 
On the Atlantic coast they are found from Newfoundland 
southward. The shell is beautifully ribbed and zoned in 
varying shades of red and purple. This is made use of as a 
receptacle in cooking oysters; whence the name scalloped 
oysters, fish, etc. 

RECIPES FOR SHELL-FISH 
OYSTER COCKTAIL FOR ONE 

9 or 10 oysters. 2 drops of tabasco sauce. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of grated horse- 10 drops of Worcestershire sauce, 
radish. Juice of 1-4 a lemon. 

I teaspoonful of tomato catsup. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS FOR TWELVE PERSONS 

Clean and chill sixty small oysters; mix with three tea- 
spoonfuls of fine-grated horseradish, half a teaspoonful of 
tabasco-sauce, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, five tablespoon- 
fuJs of lemon juice, three tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire 
sauce, three tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup, and one tea- 
spoonful and a fourth of salt. Serve in sherry glasses, in 
grape-fruit, or lemon shells, or in tomato-cups. If fresh 
tomatoes are not at hand, cups may be shaped from tomato- 
jelly. 

COCKTAIL OF LITTLE-NECK CLAMS IN TOMATO CUPS 

Peel and scoop out the centres of small round tomatoes; 
chill thoroughly on ice together with half a dozen Little- Neck 
clams for each tomato. Mix one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, five or six 
drops of tabasco-sauce, a dash of paprika, and one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of salt, and pour one tablespoonful and a half of 



io8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the mixture over the clams in each tomato. Omit the catsup, 
if desired. 

OYSTERS ON THE DEEP SHELL 

Open the chilled oysters as directed on page io6. Serve 
from the deeper half of the shell, on a bed of broken ice, on a 
plate. From three to six oysters, no more than can be well 
arranged on the ice, make one service. Pass with these salt 
and pepper and small thin brown bread-and-butter sand- 
wiches. Pass a lengthwise quarter of lemon with the oysters 
on each plate. 

BROILED OYSTERS WITH CELERY 

Marinate two dozen large oysters, cleaned and dried; drain, 
then dip in melted butter and very fine soft bread-crumbs; 
broil in a well-oiled oyster broiler until the gills curl, then 
lay on slices of buttered toast and pour over a cup of hot 
cream, or of thin white-sauce made of milk. Sprinkle the 
whole with fine-chopped celery and garnish the dish with 
bits of curled celery. If celery be not at hand, season the 
cream or sauce with celery-salt, or pepper. 

OYSTERS IN C^EAM SAUCE 

I pint of solid oysters i pint of cream, or three-fourths 

(about 30 oysters.) of a pint of milk. 

1-4 a cup of butter. Salt and pepper. 

1-4 a cup of flour. 1-2 a cup or more of mushrooms. 

I tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor. Make the sauce 
in the usual manner and to this ^idd the ovsters, strained from 
their liquor. If a full pint of milk be used, add an exti^a 
level tablespoonful of flour to that stipulated for the sauce. 
Cream makes proportionately a thicker sauce than milk. 
Oysters thus prepared may be served in Swedish timbale 
cases, patty-shells, bread croustades, green peppers, vol- 
au-vent, or on toast. If canned button mushrooms be used, 
cut in halves and reheat in the sauce with the oysters. If 
the mushrooms be fresh, prepare as usual: rub over with the 



OYSTERS 109 

cut side of a lemon, simmer in water until tender, then add 
with the oysters. 

OYSTER STEW 

I quart of oysters. i - 2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I quart of milk. 1-4 a teaspoonful of white pepper. 

1-4 a cup of butter. . 1-2 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

Pour half a cup of cold water over the oysters; examine, 
one by one, and remove any bits of shell, but retain all the 
oyster crabs, which are considered a delicacy. Heat the 
liquor to the boiling point, strain through a piece of cheese- 
cloth and return to the fire with the oysters; let heat quickly. 
When the oysters look plump and the gills begin to curl, skim 
out and put into the tureen with the scalded milk, butter, 
pepper, salt, and cracker-crumbs; strain in the oyster liquor, 
mix thoroughly and serve with a plate of crackers. 

. OYSTERS IN BROWN SAUCE 

< 

I slice of onion. i cup of oyster liquor. 

4 slices of carrot. i - 2 a cup pi cream . 

I sprig of parsley. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-4 a cup of butter. A few graifis of cayenne. 

I '3 a cup of flour. i solid pint of oysters. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor and drain. Sautd 
the onion, carrot, and parsley in the butter, add the flour 
with the salt and cayenne and cook until well browned. Add 
the oyster liquor gradually; strain over the oysters, reheat, 
and, just before serving, add the cream, scalded. The yolks 
of one or two eggs may be added, also a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Mushrooms are often cooked with the oysters. Serye 
as oysters in cream-sauce. 

OYSTERS AND MACARONI 

I pint of oysters. Salt and paprika. 

3-4 a ctip of macaroni broken in 1-4 a cup of butter. 

inch pieces. 1-2 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

3-4 a cup of grated cheese. i -4 a cup of melted butter. 

Cook the macaroni until tender (see page 335); drain 
and rinse with cold water. Put a layer in the bottom of a 



no PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

buttered gratin dish, cover with oysters, and sprinkle with 
cheese, salt and' paprika; add half the butter in bits, and cover 
with a layer of macaroni, then with oysters, and seasoning. 
Cover the top with the cracker-crumbs mixed with the melted 
butter. Bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Serve at once. 

OYSTERS AND MACARONI, NO. a 

I pint of oysters, parboiled. Salt and paprika. 

3-4 a cup of macaroni broken in i i- 2 cups of white sauce. 

inch pieces. i - 2 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

3-4 a cup of grated cheese. i -4 a cup of melted butter. 

Drain the oysters carefully after parboiling; add to the 
dish, alternately, with the macaroni, covering with sauce and 
cheese. Finish the tops with the cracker-crumbs, stirred 
into the melted butter. Cook ten minutes in a hot oven. 

OYSTER PIE 

Cover an inverted shallow baking-dish, holding about a 
quart, with chilled puff-paste rolled to the thickness of one- 
fourth an inch; prick with a fork, that it may rise evenly in 
baking. Slide onto a baking-sheet, to keep the edge from the 
bottom of the oven, and bake about twenty-five minutes. 
(See Puff-paste, page 484.) Cut out a cover one-fourth an 
inch thick, a little larger than the top of the dish, as it will 
shrink in baking, prick, and ornament with pieces of pastry 
if desired. Place on a baking-sheet, chill, then bake about 
twenty-five minutes. Remove the paste from the baking- 
dish and set in place on the serving-dish. Fill with a quart 
of drained oysters that have been cut in halves, stirred into a 
cup of hot cream-sauce and simmered five minutes, or until 
thoroughly heated, but no longer. The sauce will not season 
the oysters sufficiently, and additional salt and pepper will 
be needed. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

I quart of oysters. i cup of breadcrumbs, 

I- 2 a cup of melted butter. (centre of the loaf) , 

J cup of cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper, 



FRIED OYSTERS iii 

Stir the bread and cracker-crumbs into the butter; sprinkle 
the bottom of a buttered baking-dish with crumbs, then 
place on these a layer of cleaned oysters and dust with salt 
and pepper. Add, alternately, two more layers of oysters 
and crumbs and bake in a hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Garnish with toast-points and parsley, and serve at once. 
Select a shallow dish for scalloped oysters, as long cooking 
injures an oyster. 

OYSTERS BROILED WITH BACON 

Broil six slices of bacon by letting stand in a double-broiler 
over a dripping-pan in a hot oven. Wash and dry a pint of 
large oysters; dip, one by one. in the bacon fat and arrange 
in an oyster^broiler ; cook over glowing coals, first on one side 
and then on the other, until they look plump and the edges 
are curled. Serve on slices of toast or fried croutons. Gar- 
nish with the bacon. 

BROILED OYSTERS WITH MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

Drain large oysters, wipe dry, season with salt and pepper, 
dip in oil or melted butter, and arrange in an oyster-broiler: 
broil over a quick fire without coloring; dress on pieces of 
toast, and pour over maitre d' hotel butter, partly melted. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Wash and drain the oysters and dry between two cloths; 
let stand in a marinade ten or more minutes, then drain again. 
Roll in cracker crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper. For 
one pint of oysters beat two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water until the whites and yolks are well mixed; dip the 
oysters, crumbed, into the egg and roll again in crumbs. 
Fry one minute in deep fat, smoking hot. Use a frying-basket 
and cook only five or six oysters at a time. Drain on soft 
paper and serve at once. Serve at the same time pickles, 
olives, celery salad, or cold slaw. When served as a luncheon 
dish the centre may be removed from a small head of 
cabbage; let chill and fill the open space with crisp cab- 
bage cut fine and mixed with dressing. Let the cabbagje 



112 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

rest on a folded napkin and around the cabbage on the napkin 
arrange the fried oysters. 

OYSTERS FRIED IN BATTER 

Wash and dry the oysters, which should be of large size. 
Dip in batter (each oyster needs be perfectly covered with 
the batter) and fry in deep fat; drain and serve on a folded 
napkin; garnish with lemon and parsley. Let the same 
articles accompany the dish as are served with oysters, 
crumbed and fried. 

BATTER FOR OYSTERS 

2 eggs. A few grains of paprika. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. i cup of flour. 

2-3 a cup of strained oyster liquor. 

Let the batter stand an hour or two before using. 

FRIED SCALLOPS 

Cover the scallops with boiling water and keep hot five 
minutes without boiling; drain and dry on a cloth. Let 
stand in a marinade one hour, drain and dry a second time, 
roll in seasoned cracker-dust, dip in egg and roll again in 
cracker-dust; fry in deep fat until well colored, dress on a 
folded napkin and serve with quartered lemons, or with 
tomato-sauce. 

SCALLOPS ON THE DEEP SHELL 

Cut the scallops into squares; put these back into the deep 
shells, season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with fine- 
chopped fresh mushrooms, parsley, and buttered bread- 
crumbs. Cook in a hot oven ten or twelve minutes; remove 
and squeeze upon each a little lemon juice and dress on a folded 
napkin, garnishing with a few sprigs of parsley. 

SCALLOPS IN SHELLS 

Parboil the scallops five minutes; drain and cut in cubes; 
measure the cubes, and for a pint saut^ a slice of onion in one- 
fourth a cup of butter; add half a cup of mushrooms peeled 



LOBSTERS 113 

• 

and cut in squares, and let cook five minutes; add one-fourth 
a cup of flour, and, when blended with the butter, add the 
scallops and a cup, each, of scallop broth and cream; let boil 
once, then simmer six, or eight minutes ; add a dash of paprika 
and a teaspoonful of butter. Put the mixture into buttered 
scallop-shells, cover with cracker-crumbs, mixed with butter, 
and let brown in the oven. 

CLAM BROTH AND CLAMS IN CREAM-SAUCE 

Scrub and rinse half a peck of clams; put over the fire in 
a cup of cold water. Cover and steam until the shells are well 
opened. When the clams are cooked, drain off the broth, 
strain, season with pepper, reheat without boiling and serve 
at once. A spoonful of whipped cream is often served on the 
top of a cup of clam broth, but the broth needs be very hot 
or the cream will cool it too much. Serve the steamed clams, 
after removing the hard parts in a cream-sauce. Or these may 
be chopped and added with the soft portions to the sauce. 
Use rich milk or cream in making the sauce. A cup of sauce 
will suffice for a cup of clams. Serve on toast. Garnish with 
toast-points. 

CRUSTACEANS 
LOBSTERS 

The American lobster is found in the northern sections of 
both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. On the Pacific coast 
the lobster is large and without claws. The natural cplor 
of the lobster is usually a dark bluish green and mottled, but 
in sandy regions they are slightly reddish.' When boiled the 
color changes to red. Lobsters are caught in nets or traps 
and shipped to market alive. In March the lobster begins his 
yearly migration from deep water to the coast; in autumn 
those that are left to tell the tale of their wanderings return 
again to the deep sea. During April and May the largest num- 
bers are in motion. Then the fish-markets are resplendent 
with the vivid color of the lobster's shell, and the adjacent 
country for miles around is resonant with the "buy-lobe, 



114 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

buy-lobe" of the hawkers of this popular crustacean. That 
the lobster's annual trip is accomplished in safety but a few 
times is attested by the average size of these creatures when 
they are caught. They have been known to reach a weight 
of fifteen pounds, but a five-pound lobster is rarely seen. 
As the lobster grows at the rate of about a quarter of a pound 
a year, it is a simple matter to determine his age, and the num- 
ber of times he has missed the tempting bait in the lobster- 
trap. 

Probably the largest lobster ever seen was captured off 
Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, in 1898, and sent to Boston. It 
measured nearly seven feet from tip to tip of its colossal 
body claws; the body itself was three feet long. The legs 
were about an inch in diameter. The average weight of a 
lobster to-day is about two pounds. 

As a general thing lobsters are boiled when taken from the 
trap ; but few are seen in the markets alive. Near the coast, 
on order, 'usually for the hotel trade, the flesh is removed from 
the shell without preliminary boiling. Such flesh is served 
after one cooking, a gain on the side of digestibility. 

TO DETERMINE THE FRESHNESS OF LOBSTERS 

A lobster heavy in proportion to its size is the choice ; such 
a lobster is either plump and in good condition, or fresh- 
boiled and heavy from lack of evaporation. A lobster in 
good condition when boiled has its tail curled, and when this 
is straightened out it will fly back into place. 

TO BOIL A LOBSTER 

Sometimes a lobster is brought from market alive ; it should 
be cooked at once. Have in the kettle enough boiling "water 
to cover the lobster. Take by the back and put into the 
water head first and as quickly as possible. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of salt and let boil five minutes, then simmer half an hour. 

TO DRESS A LOBSTER 

Pull off the two large claws, and the four pairs of small 
claws; break apart the tail and the body; cut the bony mem- 



CRABS 



115 



brane on the inside of the tail shell with a pair of scissors, 
or sardine can-opener, then spread the tail slightly and pull 
out the flesh in a single piece ; open this in the crease on the 
under side and carefully remove the intestinal vein, which 
runs the entire length. This vein is always visible, but it 
differs in color, being white, or red, or sometimes, from the 
contents, black. Take- the body from the shell, leaving 
within the shell the stomach or '*lady. " If the coral and 
green substance remain in the shell, shake them out and 
set aside for use. Pull off the woolly gills found on the body, 
then break open the body shell and remove all the bits of 
flesh found between the bones ; this is the sweetest and tender- 
est portion of the lobster. Disjoint the large claws and cut the 
shell, if thin, to remove the flesh as whole as possible. Take 
the meat from the small claws with a skewer and leave these 
whole for garnishing. 

CRABS 

The species of crabs are very numerous. The blue crab 
is the one used as an article of food. On the Atlantic and 
Gulf coasts it is found in estuaries and brackish water. Other 
species of the same genus extensively used for food are found 
in the West Indies and on both coasts of Central and South 
America. The common, or rock crabs, a large, mottled, 
reddish-brown species, are sometimes sold in the markets of 
New England; similar species are common in San Francisco, 
and still another species is used on the European coast. Upon 
the coast of the Southern States a very large species, five or 
six inches across, is caught in great numbers for the market. 
On account of the scarcity of beef and mutton in the South, 
crabs are eaten there more largely than in the North. Crabs, 
as well as lobsters, shed their shells. Soft-shell crabs, or 
crabs up)on which the new shell has not hardened, are con- 
sidered a g^at delicacy. Oyster crabs found inside the shell 
of the oyster are another delicacy. As they are not found 
in large numbers and are very tiny, they are used in few dishes 
other than as a garnish. 



n6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



SHRIMPS 

In this country shrimps are not in general use as an article 
of food, but they are in common use in England and France. 
The best shrimps in this country are found in Southern waters; 
these are from an inch and a half to two inches and a half 
long. Shrimps are of a grayish color, turning to pink in 
boiling. In the Northern markets shrimps are seen only 
after boiling. They are seasonable from May to October. 
Canned shrimps are more generally used than any other 
canned shell-fish. Shrimps are used in salads or sauces; 
they are also served, heated in a cream-sauce, from the chafing- 
dish. To prepare for cooking, pick off the shgU and take out 
the intestinal vein. 

CURRY OF LOBSTER IN RICE CUPS 

Press boiled rice into cups. (See Rice Croustades, page 29.) 
When cold turn from the cups and remove the centres ; brush 
over with yolk of eggy roll in bread-crumbs and fry in deep 
fat; drain on soft paper, then fill with the following curry: 
Cook half an onion in butter; add one-fourth a cup of flour, 
one tablespoonful of curry-powder and one pint of cocoanut- 
milk. Strain over one pint of lobster, cut in cubes and sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, and lemon juice and reheat before 
serving. 

STUFFED LOBSTER, NARRAQANSETT PIER STYLE 

2 pounds of lobster. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

2 tablespoon fuls of chopped 1-2 a cup of chicken stock. 

shallots. Yolks of two eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-4 a cup of brea<J crumbs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 1-2 a cup of cracker crumbB 

A grating of nutmeg. 1-4 a cup of melted butter. 

Saut^ the shallot (mild onion) in the butter without brcwn- 
ing it; add the flour and seasonings, the cream and chicken- 
stock (or stock made from the body bones of the lobster). 



LOBSTER RECIPES 117 

When this boils, add the breadcrumbs (soft, not dry crumbs), 
the meat from the lobster, chopped fine, and the parsley. 
When this is heated, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and 
the lemon juice. Place the cleaned shell of the lobster on the 
semng-dish, letting it take the natural shape of the lobster, 
pour the mixture into it and cover with the cracker-crumbs, 
mixed with the melted butter. Set in the oven to brown the 
crumbs. Garnish the dish with parsley, fans from the tail 
of the lobster, and the feelers. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS 

1 cup of thick white sauce or i egg. 
' 2 tablespoonsfuls of butter. i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

1-4 a cup of flour. 2 cups of chopped lobster meat. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

Add the beaten eggs to the sauce, the lobster-meat and the 
lemon juice, turn into a shallow dish, cover and set aside to 
become thoroughly cold. Shape into cutlets, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry in deep fat ; drain on soft paper in the warming- 
oven. Insert the end of a small claw in the small end of 
each cutlet. Arrange the cutlets in a circle, overlapping one 
another, around the large claws, standing in a rice croustade, 
or in a nest of parsley. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS NO. a 

8 ounces of lobster meat (meat from a two-pound lobster) . 
2-3 a cup of panada. 3 eggs. 

2 tabiespoonfuls of butter. i tablespoonful tomato sauce. 
Salt and paprika. i tablespoonful of double cream. 

Pound the lobster-meat to a smooth pulp ; add the panada 
(see Entries, page 258) and butter and pound again; add the 
other ingredients, save the cream, and when well blended 
pass through the pur6e sieve and mix in the cream. Butter 
cutlet moulds, sprinkle with sifted coral, cooked yolk of egg^ 
or chopped parsley, then carefully fill the moulds with the 
mixture. With a wet knife smooth the top of the mixture. 
Set the moulds on a folded paper and surround with hot water; 



ii8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

let poach in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. Serve 
around a rice socle. Pass with the cutlets Hollandaise, or 
other fish-sauce. 

LOBSTER A LA RUSHMORE 

Cook a shallot and four mushroom stalks, chopped fine, in a 
tablespoonful of butter. Add salt and pepper, the meat of 
a two-pound lobster, cut in cubes, and about a cup of hot 
tomato-sauce ; let stand over hot water until thoroughly heated, 
then turn into the clean lobster-shell. Into the top of the 
mixture press four mushroom caps, peeled and sauted five 
minutes in butter; pour a little tomato-sauce over these and 
set in the oven about ten minutes. Serve on a folded napkin, 
or surround with parsley. 

LOBSTER IN CREAM-SAUCE 

Lobster-meat, cut in dice, may be mixed with an equal 
bulk of cream-sauce and served in patty cases, shells, etc. 
In making the sauce, chicken, fish, or lobster stock and milk, 
or cream, m.ay be used, either alone, or half and half. 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTER 

With a strong, pointed knife make a deep, sharp cut at the 
mouth, then draw the knife firmly but quickly through the 
body and entire length of tail ; open the lobster and take out 
the stomach, or lady, and the intestinal vein, which runs from 
the stomach to the extreme tip of the tail. Pull off the small 
claws, wash carefully, and spread in a well-oiled broiler. 
Broil over clear coals about ten minutes on the flesh side, bast- 
ing once with melted butter; turn and broil a few minutes 
less on the shell side; crack open the large claws and serve 
at once on a hot serving-dish. Pass at the same time melted 
butter. If more convenient, the lobster may be cooked in a 
hot oven about fifteen minutes. Serve half a lobster, or a 
whole one of small size, as a portion. Spread with butter 
before baking. 



LOBSTER CUTLETS. (See page . 



TURTLE 119 I 

CRAB RECIPES 
SOFT-SHELLED CRABS, BROILED 

Dress carefully, season with salt, baste with oil or melted 
butter and broil over a slow fire ; dress on a hot dish and cover , 
with ravigotte butter. a ^' .'^ ' -^ - '^ "^ 

SOFT-SHELLED CRABS, FRifeD cf -'-l ' - /. 



Dip the dried crabs into milk, then roll in flour and fry to 
a golden color in deep fat ;. dress on a folded napkin. 

SOFT-SHELLED CRABS SAUTED 

Roll the crabs in flour and sautd in hot clarified butter; 
dress on a hot dish; add a little lemon juice to the butter in 
which the crabs were cooked, strain this over the crabs and 
sprinkle the top with fine-chopped parsley. 

FROGS, TURTLE AND TERRAPIN 
FROGS' LEGS 

In the animal kingdom frogs, turtle, and terrapin rank a 
scale lower than shell-fish. Of frogs, only the hind legs are 
eaten. To prepare these for cooking, the skin is removed, 
after which the legs are parboiled five or six minutes in boiling 
salted, acidulated water. They are quite frequently served 
in a rich sauce with puff-paste, either as a filling for a vol- 
au-vent, or simply surrounded with diamonds or triangles of 
the cooked paste. 

TURTLE 

The name turtle is popularly (not scientifically) applied 
to certain marine reptiles, which, as does also the tortoise, 
resemble in many respects aquatic birds. Those species 
that are exclusively herbivorous are wholesome as food and 
much sought after by epicures. The eggs are considered a 
great delicacy. The calipee, or under part of the breast and 
abdomen, the liver, and fat are the choicest parts. The 
green turtle, so named from the delicate green color of its 
fat, is found in the tropical waters of America and near the 



I20 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

West Indies. It feeds on succulent turtle grass and supplies 
food to thousands in the West Indies. This turtle is often 
five or six feet in length and weighs five or six hundred pounds. 
Green turtle soup is a favourite dish with epicures. Dried 
green turtle from South America is also used in soups. Half 
a poimd of turtle- will make soup for eight persons. 

TERRAPIN 

Diamond-back or salt-water terrapin are found all along 
the Atlantic coast, but more especially in Chesapeake Bay 
and its tributaries. Other species are numerous from Mass- 
achusetts to Texas. For those who buy and sell terrapin the 
standard length is six inches. They are captured during 
their season of hibernation, that is from November to May; 
they are at their best from December to April. The sijc- 
inch terrapin cost $1.25 per pound. Those of larger size 
are sold at a higher rate. Terrapin is always cooked alive 
by plunging, after being carefully washed, head first into boil- 
ing water. Remove from the water in about five minutes, or 
as soon as the thin white skin can be removed from the head 
and feet, then cook without salt or seasoning from thirty to 
thirty-five minutes. 

After dressing, the meat is cut into small squares or cubes. 
These may be served h. la Newburgh, that is, cooked in cream 
thickened with butter and yolks of eggs, or made into cro- 
quettes, or cutlets. Fresh terrapin is also served in soups. 
To dress, cool, draw the nails, break the shell on the fiat 
side, at both edges and near the top of the shell, detach the 
flat shell from the meat, discarding everything but the flesh 
and the liver, after carefully cutting away the gall-bladder 
and the eggs. 

GREEN TURTLE RAGOUT 

Cut the meat into about an inch-and-a-quarter squares; 
saut^ each pint of squares in one-fourth a cup of butter; 
sprinkle over one-fourth a cup of flour and stir until incor- 
porated with the butter, then add, gradually, three cups of 
broth, (chicken preferred) also a sprig of parsley and thyme 



FROG LEGS IN BECHAMEL SAUCE 121 

tied together with a bay leaf, a dozen parboiled button onions, 
a slice of bacon, cut into tiny squares, and half a dozen small 
mushrooms, peeled and broken into bits. Season with salt 
and a piece of red pepper. Let simmer until the flesh is 
tender; remove the pepper and bxmch of sweet herbs before 
serving. 

SCALLOPED QREBN TURTLE 

Cut the meat from a small braised green turtle into quarter- 
inch squares. For one quart of squares fry two onions, chopped 
fine, in one-fourth a cup of butter; sift over one-third a cup 
of flour and moisten with three cups of stock ; add the turtle- 
meat and stir until boiling, then add the sifted yolks of two 
or three Jiard-boiled eggs, mixed with one-fourth a cup of 
butter; press through a sieve and add a tablespoonful of fine- 
chopped parsley and several fine-chopped mushrooms, if at 
hand. Fill the carapace, or deep under-shell, with the mix- 
ture. Cover with cracker-crumbs, mixed with melted butter 
and brown in the oven. 

FRIED FROGS' LEGS 

Dress the hind legs of frogs by removing the skin and feet; 
parboil five minutes in salted water, acidulated with a little 
lemon juice, or vinegar. Drain, wipe dry, egg-and-bread, 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve on a folded napkin. Gar- 
nish with lemon and parsley. 

SAUTED FROGS* LEGS (CAMP STYLE) 

Prepare the legs as above. Roll in flour or Indian meal 
and saut^ to a golden brown in fat tried out of salt-pork. 

FROGS' LEGS IN BECHAMEL SAUCE 

Prepare a Bechamel sauce and pour over the sauted legs. 
Surroimd with toast-points. 



CHAPTER IV 

Beef, Mutton, Veal, Lamb, Pork 

BEEF 

"Let beeves and home-bred kine partake 
The sweets of Bum-Mill meadow. *' 

— Wordsworth. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF BEEF AS PURCHASED (ATWATER) 

Protein. By dif- Fuel va! 

Refuse. Water. N.X6.as. ference. Fat. Ash. per lb. 

I>er cent, percent, percent, per cent, per cent, per cent, calories 

Loin 

(medium fat)... 1 3. 3 52.5 16. i 15.8 17.5 .9 1.040 
Porterhouse 

Steak 12.7 52.4 19. 1 16.2 17.9 .8 i.iio 

Sirloin Steak 12.8 54.0 16.5 16.2 16.1 .9 985 

Tenderloin 0.0 59.2 16.2 15.6 24.4 .8 i. 330 

Ribs 

(medium fat) ... 20 . 8 43.8 13.9 13.5 21.2 .7 i.155 

Ribs, Rolled 0.0 63.9 19.3 18.5 16.7 .9 1.065 

Round 7.2 60.7 19.0 18.3 12.8 i.o 895 

Hind Shank 53.9 31.3 9.6 9.1 5.3 .4 405 




122 



^1 i^i!i I - I ill ^^ 
Ii|ll1 sfUl |il1ll|l|||s 



1 t jU iE^'^^ 



?.e§ 



2|^ I |.s 



124 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Tongue, fresh or corned Boiled, Braised. 

Heart Stuffed and Braised* 

Liver Boiled or Fried. 

Kidneys Stewed (Ragout). 

Tail Soup, Braised. 

Tripe Broiled, fried in batter, etc 

Beef dressed for the market is divided at the backbone 
into two parts, each of which is termed a side of beef. The 
weight of a side is from three to five hundred pounds. Of 
this much less than one hundred pounds is tender meat, suit- 
able for quick cooking, as roasted, or broiled meat. But 
while ttieat thus cooked is better relished and, oftentimes 
better adapted to our physical condition, it is less nutritious 
than those parts that are nourished by muscular use and 
v/hich, in consequence, secrete juice and flavour. For these 
cuts long slow cooking, with moisture, is needed to soften the 
collagen, so that the little bundles of fibres may fall apart 
easily, when they come in contact with the teeth. 

The lean in beef of good quality is of a dark purple color 
when first cut, but soon it turns to bright red. It should be 
. coated and, especially the tenderer cuts, well mottled with fat. 
The fat in beef of prime quality is firm, of a light yellowish 
color, and crumbles easily. What is fat in a good quality of 
meat is water in a less desirable article. The neck and fore- 
quarter of an ox, or sheep contain more nutritive value than 
the juiceless tenderloin and other more tender and more 
expensive cuts. Broth from the neck of mutton has more 
flavor than that made of a cut from the ribs. So, also, in 
making chicken broth the first choice would be the legs and 
wings of the fowl. 

In all markets a side of beef is divided into hind and fore- 
quarter, but the point of this division, as also for other smaller 
divisions, varies in different sections of the country, and at 
different markets in the same section. In New York city 
markets the division into hind and fore-quarter is so made 
that the thirteen ribs are included in the fore-quarter. In 
Boston markets three ribs are included in the hind-quarter. 
In a few Boston markets the rump, separated from the loin. 



ROAST BEEF 12$ 

is cut into roasts and stews, the uppey part, or back of the 
rump, giving a large and choice roast. This custom is not 
general and is usually frowned upon by marketmen who cater 
to family trade. When meat comes from the market, remove 
it at once from the paper in which it is wrapped, wipe 
the outside with a damp cloth — do not wash — cut off 
any imsightly bits and set aside in a cool place — ^but not 
directly upon the ice — until the time for cooking. 

ROAST BEEF 

The choicest pieces for roasting are from the rump and the 
loin. The first five ribs in the fore-quarter are also roasted ; 
the first two ribs make a very good roast, particularly when 
the beef is of first quality. The chuck ribs are often roasted, 
but unless the meat is much better than the average, it is 
likely to prove unsatisfactory. The tenderloin is often 
removed whole (or divided, when the rump is separated from 
the loin) and cooked as a roast. Being dry and without 
flavor, it is usually larded and served with a rich, high- 
flavored sauce. 

Let the meat to be roasted, skewered, or tied in a compact 

form, rest on a rack in a dripping-pan skin side down ; dredge 

with flour and sear over the outside in a hot oven, then add 

salt and pepper and drippings and cook at a low temperature 

until done, basting, i.e., dipping the melted fat in the pan 

over the meat, everv ten minutes. After a time turn the 

foast, to brown the skin side. When properly cooked 

the outside fat is crisp and brown, the lean beneath is 

browned to the depth of one-fourth an inch and the whole 

interior is evenly red and juicy. Ribs are roasted just as 

they are cut, as a '* standing roast," or boned and rolled. 

To serve a standing roast, let it rest on the ribs and cut in 

slices parallel to the bones. Before cooking tie a boned roast 

rolled into cylindrical shape, securely. To serve, remove 

the cords (skewers may be used), place the meat, resting on 

one of the ends, on the serving-dish, and cut in horizontal 

slices. Serve Franconia potatoes around the roast. 



126 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RIB ROAST. FORE-QUARTER 

Only the first five ribs of the fore-quarter are suitable for 
roasting. Remove the "eye" of tender meat, separate the 
outside layer of fat from the strip of tough lean meat under- 
neath, and tie the fat about the eye securely, passing the cord 
around several times. Cook and serve as a rolled roast. 
Pass the tough meat through a chopper several times, season, 
and shape into 

TENDERLOIN CUTLETS 

Season the chopped meat with salt, two, or three drops of 
tabasco-sauce, onion juice, and a little Worcestershire sauce. 
Form into cutlet shapes about three-fourths an inch thick; egg- 
and-breadcrumb and fry in deep fat about five minutes; set 
the fat in a cooler pUce after the cutlets are immersed, to 
avoid coloring too brown before the meat is cooked. Serve 
around a support, or a socle, of rice or hominy. Surround 
with slices of potato, cut lattice or other fashion and fried 
in deep fat. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

I 1-2 cups of pastry flour. Scant half a teaspoonful of salt. 

I 1-2 cups of milk. 3 eggs. 

Sift together the flour and salt; add the milk, gradually, bo 
as to form a smooth batter, then add the eggs, beaten until 
thick and light: turn into a very hot gem-pan, the inside of 
which has been brushed over with roast-beef dripping; when 
well risen in the pan baste with the hot roast-beef dripping. 
Bake about twenty minutes. Serve around the roast. Set 
the gem-pan into a dripping-pan before basting. The 
pudding may also be baked in a small dripping-pan and cut 
into squares for serving. 

BEEF A LA MODE 

With strips of cloth bind six or eight pounds of beef from 
the top of the round into circular shape. Make incisions 
with a sharp knife, and into these press lardoons of s^lt-pork 



RIB ROAST OF BEEF. TWO RIBS FROM FORE QUARTER. 



VEAL LOAF READY FOR BAKING (Soe pajre ijo.) 



CANNELON OF BEEF WITH MACARONI A LA ITALIENNE. 



BRAISED BEEF 127 

half an inch thick; make other incisions, and press into these 
bread-stuffing. Heat drippings or trimmings from the salt- 
pork, and in this brown the outside of the meat; add a sprig 
or two of parsley, two onions and half a carrot, sliced, then 
half cover with boiling water and let simmer until tender. 
Five to seven hours will be required; replenishing with hot 
water as needed. An iron pot with tight-fitting cover is 
the best utensil to use for this dish. If the meat rests on a 
trivet, turning may be avoided. Garnish with boiled onions, 
seasoned, basted with butter and browned in a hot oven. 
Skim the fat from the liquid in which the meat was cooked; 
thicken the latter with flour and water, strain and serve as 
a sauce with the meat. If there be considerable liquid, 
thicken a part, and set the meat aside. to cool in the rest. 

BRAISED BEEF 

In the absence of a braising-pan a large earthenware cas- 
serole is desirable. Brown five or six pounds of beef from 
the rump or round, on all sides in a hot frying-pan (using 
fat from the top of the soup-kettle, or that tried out from 
salt-pork). Sprinkle half a cup, each, of small cubes of salt- 
pork, carrot, onion, and celery into the casserole and place 
the meat on these; add about a pint of stock or water, a 
bay leaf, a piece of red pepper or six peppercorns, and three 
cloves tied in a sprig of parsley. Spread a few more cubes 
of vegetables on the top of the meat and add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, if water be used, with seasoned stock it may be 
omitted. Put on the cover, bind a strip of cloth spread with 
fJour-paste over the joining of the dish and cover and let 
cook in a very slow oven about six hours. Thoroughly rinse 
the pan, in which the meat was browned, with the stock or 
water, to retain the browned juices from the meat. The 
meat may be dredged with flour while browning, or a brown- 
sauce may supplant the stock or water. Strain the sauce 
and serve poured over the meat, or in a sauce-boat. Thicken 
with roux, if not already of the desired consistency. This 
kind of a casserole is not intended for table use. For a change 
serve some of the vegetables with the meat. When a dish 



128 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

is used from which the cover can be easily taken, vegetables, 
cut in match-like pieces, or fanciful shapes, and blanched 
may be added to the dish just in time to become tender. 
Serve these around the meat ; celery, carrot, and, occasionally, 
turnip are suitable for this purpose. A cup of tomato pur^, 
added when the meat is half cooked, is often an improvement; 
so also is a little grated horseradish. 

FILLET OF BEEF ROASTED 

The fillet of beef is taken from underneath that part of the 
backbone, which is included in the lower part of the sirloin 
and the rump. Ordinarily it is cut as a part of the steaks or 
roasts in these joints, and when removed whole for a fillet 
these steaks or roasts are less desirable by so much. The part 
under the rump is called the short fillet, that under the sirloin 
the long fillet. When the whole fillet is needed it should be 
cut out before the division into loin and rump has been made. 
If this is not done, the two pieces need be skewered together. 
The whole fillet sells for seventy-five cents to one dollar per 
pound; the short fillet (from the rump) at about thirty-five 
cents per pound. The rump steaks are large, and the loss 
of the tenderloin is not so apparent as it is in the smaller 
sirloin .steaks, hence the difference in price. The rump fillet 
weighs about two pounds and a half and is an economical cut 
for occasional use. In dressing a fillet the sinewy covering 
on one side and the superfluous fat on the other are removed. 
It is then trimmed into shape and the thin end folded under. 
This leaves nothing but fine-grained tender meat. Being 
destitute of flavor, this must be added in the cooking. 
Lard the whole upper surface with salt-pork, dredge with flour 
and bake half an hour. Baste frequently with fat from the 
stock-kettle, or salt-pork, the first, on account of the flavor 
of the vegetables used in the stock, being preferred. Season 
with salt and pepper when half cooked. The oven needs be 
very hot at first. Serve with a brown mushroom sauce (see 
page 229). The sauce may be poured upon the serving-dish 
and the fillet placed in the centre with the mushrooms around 
it. Or the fillet may be surrounded with potato, mashed, and 



BEEF STEW 129 

pressed through a ricer, and the sauce served from the saujce- 
boat. To serve, cut obUquely, rather than straight across. 
Serve a Httle gravy and three or four mushrooms (canned 
button) in the centre of each slice. For a change, it may be 
served with Soubise, Bemaise, or tomato-sauce. Mushrooms 
may be added to the tomato-sauce. A fillet is also particularly 
good, served surrounded with tomatoes stuffed with mush- 
rooms (see page 323). Serve brown sauce, made from the 
liquid in both pans, brown roux and rich brown stock as 
needed. 

CANNBLON OF BEEF 

2 pounds of lean beef from top of i teaspoonful of onion juice. 

round. 1-4 a teaspoonful of mace. 

I tablespoonful of fine-chopped i egg, beaten. 

parsley. 1-3 a cup of soft bread crumbs. 

I teaspoonful of salt 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 

Pass the meat through a chopper several times ; add the other 
ingredients, the egg, beaten, and the bread crumbs, wrung dry, 
after standing some time in cold water; mix thoroughly and 
shape in a roll. Bake on a rack in a small pan between thirty 
and forty minutes. Baste frequently with fat from salt- 
pork and hot water. Serve with tomato, or mushroom- 
sauce, or with macaroni h la Italienne. Sauted mushroom 
trimmings, added to the cannelon with the other seasonings, 
give a pleasing variety to this dish. 

BEEF STEW 

The best tuts for a stew are those containing both lean and 
fat meat and some bone. The flank end of a large roast, 
a few pounds from the middle of the hind shin, or a cut from 
the chuck ribs, are all good selections. Remove such portion 
of the meat from the bones as is convenient and cut into small 
pieces. Saw the bones into pieces of convenient size for the 
saucepan. These are to be removed before the dish is served. 
Wipe the bones carefully to avoid any bits of bone. Saut^ 
the meat — ^all, or a part — ^in the marrow from the shin-bone, 
or, lacking this, in drippings, or salt-pork fat. For two 



I30 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pounds of meat sautd to a delicate color one onion, cut in 
rings, one carrot (small) cut in cubes, and a small white turnip, 
also cut small; add three pints of light stock or water, and 
half a red or green pepper ; let simmer very gently three hours 
or more, until the meat is tender; remove the bones, skim 
off the fat and add about two pounds of sliced potatoes, par- 
boiled five minutes and drained. Season with salt. When 
the potatoes are tender, remove the meat to the centre of the 
serving-dish; surround with the potatoes and broth. The 
meat while browning may be dredged with flour, thus giving 
a thicker broth. Half a cup of blanched rice may be added 
ten minutes before the potatoes. A pint of tomato pur^e 
(cooked tomatoes strained to exclude skin and seeds) may 
take the place of a part of the stock or water. In making 
a stew from the remnants of roast beef, prepare a stock of 
the bones, browned fat, and unsightly portions of the roast, 
strain, remove the fat, and use with the vegetables bits of 
good meat and any platter gravy, or brown-sauce remaining. 
The bones are included for the sake of the juices and flavor 
of flesh that may adhere to them. 

CORNED BEEF 

The ** fancy brisket" is considered the best cut of corned- 
beef. It may be known by the "selvage" on the lower side 
and the absence of bones. It is close, fine-grained meat and 
requires longer cooking than other pieces that are corned. 
The second cut of the rattle rand (see chart, page 122) con- 
tains three distinct layers of lean and fat of salted beef. To 
cook, rinse the meat in cold water, tie, or skewer in shape, 
and put over the fire, covered with cold. water; heat slowly to 
the boiling point. After boiling five minutes remove the 
scum and let simmer gently until tender. Five to eight hours 
will be' required. Remove from the water, cover and keep 
hot, while pared potatoes and turnips are cooked in the liquid. 
Cook other vegetables, as beets, cabbage, and carrots, apart. 
If the meat is to be served cold, let partly cool in the liquid 
in which it is cooked. In this case do not cook the vegetables 
in the meat liquor. 



BEEFSTEAK 131 



BOILED BEEF TONGUE 

Cook a corned or pickled tongue in the same manner as 
corned beef. Let cook ifntil very tender, four hours or 
more, then parttally cool in the liquid, but remove to peel off 
the skin before the tongue becomes cold. Serve cold, sliced 
thin. Garnish with a macedoine of vegetables, as peas, aspar- 
agus tips, carrots, and turnip, cut in cubes and moulded in aspic 
jelly. Pass mayonnaise or Tartare sauce, at the same time, 
or use jelly and mayonnaise in moulding. (See also Tongue 
Moulded in Aspic Jelly and Tongue in Chaudfroid Sauce 
on pages 278 and 282). Salt the boiling water in which a 
fresh tongue is put to cook; it will cook in about two hours; 
i^egetables added to the water are an improvement, the liquid 
may be used for soup. A boiled tongue, fresh or salt, is often 
glazed and served on a bed of spinach k la cr^me, or of plain 
cooked spinach; with the latter serve sauce piquante. A 
fresh tongue may be braised (see page 17). 

BEEFSTEAK 

DESCRIPTION AND NAMES GIVEN TO BEEFSTEAK 

Steaks are cut from the round — those from the top, known 
by the thick ridge of fat, being the best round-steaks — from 
the loin, and the rump. Steaks from the loin nearest the 
fore-quarter are known as short, club, or Delmonico steaks; 
they are without tenderloin, and the flank end is small; three 
of them contain a rib-bone each. Steaks from the rump end 
of the sirloin are called hip or fiat-bone sirloin ; they contain 
quite a large fiat bone, fiank and tenderloin. Steaks between 
the short and hip-bone sirloin contain the best part of the 
tenderloin. These are the true sirloin steaks. They are 
often called tenderloin, and, sometimes, porterhouse steaks. 
A steak may be flattened, or batted into uniform thickness 
with a cleaver, or cutlet-bat, wet in cold water. If tough, 
brush over with a mixture of one tablespoonful of Vinegar to 
two tablespoonfuls of oil. The acetic acid in the vinegar 
softens the collagen, and the oil, by excluding the air, keeps 
the meat in good condition while bacteria are softening the 



134 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

collagen in the fibres. After being thus treated a steak may 
stand several hours, or, by repeating the process, several 
days, according to the season, etc. 

TO BROIL A STEAK 

Wipe, trim off superfluous fat and flank end, bat into shape; 
heat the broiler very hot, — a heavy wire double-broiler is 
the most convenient — rub it over with a bit of the fat and 
put in the meat with the ridge of fat towards the handle of 
the broiler, to insure the basting of the meat during cooking. 
At first hold the broiler close to the clear coals, count ten 
and turn ; count ten again, then, the juices being imprisoned 
by the strong heat, remove to a greater distance from the 
fire, and continue cooking and turning the meat every ten 
seconds, to insure slow and even cooking. Have the dampers 
in the range open as in building the fire, to carry the smoke 
from the fat up the chimney. 

Steaks may be cut an inch thick, but are better an inch 
and a half thick. From five to eight minutes* cooking is 
needed for the first, and eight to ten minutes for the latter. 
When properly broiled the steak is puffy from the expansion 
of the collagen and the moisture imprisoned within; it is 
well browned to the depth of one-eighth an inch, juicy and 
uniformly red in appearance within. If the length of cooking 
and the general appearance of the steak do not indicate its 
condition to satisfaction, place the broiler over a dripping- 
pan and make a small clean cut at one end. This will indicate 
its condition conclusively. When done, remove to the serv- 
ing-dish, which should be warm; sprinkle with salt, (o 
pepper, unless without doubt it be agreeable to all), spre 
with cold maitre d'hotel butter (see page 241) the heat 
the steak should melt the butter — or with hot Bemaise sau 
Mushroom, or tomato-sauce is also admissible. Garni 
with slices of lemon, with water-cress, pepper-grass, or parsle 
Serve with potatoes in some form. French fried, Saratoga 
mashed, baked (white, or sweet), and escalloped potatoe 
are all in favor with steak. In Virginia a steak spread wii 






CHATEAUBRIAND A LA PIERCE 133 

m^tre d'hotel butter is accompanied by Baltimore samp, 
in cream-sauce, with parsley. 

HAMBURG STEAK 

I pound of round steak. 1-2 a tcaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of onion juice or i egg and a dash of pepper, if 
grated onion. desired. 

Chop the steak very fine and mix thoroughly with the- 
other ingredients; the egg may be used, or not, it helps hold 
the meat together during cooking. With hands, or knife and 
spoon, wet in cold water, shape the mixture into a steak, or 
small flat cakes. Have the edges of the meat of the same 
thickness as the centre. Broil in a deep double-broiler with 
wires running at right angles, or saut^ first one side and then 
on the other in hot drippings or fat from salt-pork. Serve 
with brown or tomato sauce. 

HUNGARIAN STEW (MRS. T. B. WHEELOCK, MINNESOTA) 

2 pounds of lean beef, shoulder 1-2 a cup of cream, sweet or sour. 

steak. I teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 1-4 a teaspoonful of caraway seed 

2 tablespoonfuls of fine-cut onion. 1-4 a teaspoonful of sweet mar- 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter or suet. joram . 

I level tablespoonful of flour. Paprika to ta.ste. 

I -2 a cup of hot water or broth. 

Cut the meat in half-inch cubes, put in a granite dish (not 
tin), add vinegar and salt, and let stand an hour or two. 
Heat the butter in a porcelain-lined iron kettle; add the onions 
and cook until tender, not brown ; add meat and spices, and 
cover closely so the steam will not escape ; let simmer slowly 
imtil the moisture is absorbed and brown, stirring often. Add 
half a cup of hot broth or water and the flour mixed in cold 
water. Just before serving, add the cream and shake in 
paprika to taste. 

CHATEAUBRIAND A LA PIERCE 

Chateaubriand, so called from a certain famous French 
gourmet, is a thick steak cut from the centre of a fillet of beef. 



134 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

When a large steak is desired, two steaks are cut from the 
centre of a fillet, but are not quite severed and when trimmed 
and spread open they appear like one steak. Often a tender- 
loin steak,cut between two and three inches thick and skewered 
into a roimd shape, is used. Remove fat, flank end and 
bone, and press the meat into a circular shape; flatten with 
a wet bat or cleaver and broil in a well-oiled broiler from 
eighteen to twenty-five minutes, turning every ten seconds. 
Turn about a cup and a half of brown mushroom-sauce upon 
a hot serving-dish and dispose the steak upon it and the 
mushrooms above the steak. Surroimd with stuffed tomatoes 
and green peppers. A Chateaubriand is often spread simply 
with maitre d' hotel butter. When cut thicker than three 
inches it is better roasted, or braised. It may be roasted, 
then scored with the wires of a very hot broiler. 

FLANK STEAK 

Embedded in fat, below the sirloin, is a thin strip of lean 
meat weighing about two pounds, called flank steak. This 
sells for about twenty-five cents. It is comparatively juicy, 
but lacking in flavor. The dealer pulls off the fat and thin 
skin imderneath, and then scores the outside upon both sides 
diagonally. Broil about six minutes. Serve with a brown, 
or tomato-sauce. This steak is often spread with highly 
seasoned bread dressing, then rolled up tightly and braised 
with vegetables and a small quantity of liquid in a casserole. 

TO PICKLE TRIPE FOR OCCASIONAL USE 

Wash tripe from creature freshly dressed, changing the water 
several times; dust the dark inside coat with quicklime and 
scrape at once. Cut in four pieces, dip in boiling water, and 
scrape until perfectly white. Wash in water slightly salted; 
then soak five or six days in water, slightly salted, changing 
the water daily. For immediate use, simmer in water until 
tender; if it is to be kept, boil eight or ten minutes, then 
drain and cover with hot vinegar. 

To prepare pickled tripe for serving in any manner: wash 
thoroughly in cold water, then simmer until tender in equal 
parts of milk and water, or in water alone. 



ox TAIL, BRAISED 135 



BROILED TRIPE 

Simmer a pound of pickled tripe (the honeycomb tripe 
is best) about half an hour, or until tender, in sufficient milk 
and water to cover. Drain, wipe dry, and cut into pieces 
for serving. Dip each piece in melted butter or. oil, season 
with salt and pepper, and boil over a clear fire until well 
colored. Serve with tomato or Tartare sauce. 

CURRIED TRIPE 

Brown an onion, cut into rings, in one-fourth a cup of 
butter; to this add one pound of tripe, prepared as before, 
and cut in small pieces, also broth to cover nearly and simmer 
until tender. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with two table- 
spoonfuls of curry-powder; dilute with half a cup^of cream, 
and, when smooth, stir into the tripe and cook about ten 
minutes, stirring often. Turn onto a hot dish and garnish 
with croutons of fried bread. 

TRIPE, POULETTE STYLE 

Saut6 an onion, chopped fine, in one-fourth a cup of butter. 
When well colored add one pound of tripe, cut in small 
squares, season with half a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pa- 
prika, and sautd until the mixture has evaporated; add one- 
fourth a cup of flour, and, when this is absorbed by the butter, 
gradually a scant pint of stock, with a sprig of parsley, or a 
grating of nutmeg. Boil three or four minutes, then simmer 
until the tripe is tender. Beat one tablespoonful of butter 
to a cream, add the yolks of two eggs and one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice and stir into the mixture without allowing it 
to come to a boil. Serve at once. 

OX TAIL, BRAISED 

Separate an ox-tail into pieces at the joints, having each 
piece about three inches in length; saut^ in hot butter or 
drippings with a sliced onion, a sliced carrot (half if the latter 
are large) and about an ounce of raw ham, fine chopped. 
When all are well browned, remove to a casserole and add a 



136 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



sprig of thyme, half a bay leaf, and also, if at hand, about 
half a chopped or shredded pepper. Brown one-fourth a 
cup of flour in the pan, add a pint, each, of tomatoes and stock, 
and, when boiling, pour over the joints in the casserole; let 
cook about three hours; add a glass of sherry wine, more 
seasoning if needed, and half a can of peas, if a cup of fresh 
cooked peas be not at hand. For variation omit the tomato, 
using stock in its place. The thickening may also be omitted. 
The joints may be egged-and-breadcrumbed and fried in deep 
fat. Thus cooked, serve with tomato sauce, or sauce Tartare. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

"Pray you, who does the wolf love?" — Cortolanus, 2, i. 

AVERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF MEDIUM FAT MUTTON 
AND LAMB AS PURCHASED (aTWATER) 

Protein Fuel Val. 

Refuse. Water. N X 6.»s. Fat Ash. per lb. 

Mutton. Per Per Per Per Per Cal- 

Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. ones. 

Leg, hind 18.4 512 15. i 14.7 .8 900 

Loin 16.0 42.0 13.5 2S.3 .7 1.445 

Shoulder 22.5 47.9 13.7 15.5 .7 910 

Lamb. 

Breast 19. i 45 5 15 -4 19- 1 8 1.090 

Lcg,hind 13.4 47.3 15.8 23.7 .8 1.295 

Loin 14.8 45-3 16.0 24.1 .8 1.315 

All kinds of meat when first slaughtered are tender, but 
soon stiffen owing to the clotting of certain proteids in com- 
position, which were liquid during life. After being kept, or, 
technically speaking, "hung" for some time, meat becomes 
more tender, due to the tearing-down processes of bacteria. 
Beef should hang in a dry cool place for at least three weeks, 
and mutton much longer. In England the Christmas "shoul- 
der of mutton*' is hung for six weeks, being rubbed over 
every few days with salt and vinegar. Mutton and lamb 
are often cut into "sides" in the same manner as beef, but 
occasionally, the first division is made to include the two fore- 
quarters in one piece and the hind-quarters m the other. 



CUTS OF MUTTON AND -LAMB 



137 



MUTTON 





r 

o 

c 
p 



Cuts. 



Shoulder. 



Scrag End. 



Weight. 

5 to 8 pounds. 
2 1-2 to 4 



Neck. 



Leg. 

a 

c ■{ Loin. 

ft 

Saddle. 



Cutlet End. 2 1-2 to 4 

8 to 9 
Best End. 3 to 4 

Chump End. 2 to 3 



10 to 14 



How Cooked. 
Braised, steamed, 

boiled. 
Stew, broth. 

Stew, steamed. 

Boiled, roasted. 

Cutlets or roafit. 

Cutlets or roast. 

Roast. 



This division gives means for the cutting of a "saddle" 
of mutton, or lamb. A sheep two or three years old, or 
even older, supplies the best mutton. Lamb is from a creature 
six to twelve weeks old. Mutton is a staple. Lamb appears in 
market as early as January, but is high in price even at Eastef , 
when spring lamb with mint-sauce and green peas are con- 
sidered, time out of mind, the most recherche of Easter 
dinners. But lamb two months old is dear at any time, 
and dearer still are peas in April, which are grown in a hot- 
house. The flavor of neither the lamb nor the peas will, in 
general, compensate for the price; so a roast of mutton, — 
saddle, crown, or leg, — and new string beans, grown more 
easily than peas, will more frequently appear in evidence on 
this day. 

CUTS OF MUTTON AND LAMB 

When mutton and lamb are divided into sides and then into 
fore and hind-quarters, eight ribs, instead of three, as in beef, 
are left on the hind quarter. These eight ribs, cut into chops, 
are the rib-chops; chops cut between these and the leg are 
the loin, kidney, or English chops. These chops correspond 
to the tenderloin steaks in beef and, though smaller, are iden- 
tical in shape and general make-up, having flank end, kidney 



138 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

fat, tenderloin, and lean tender meat above the tenderloin. 
Rib chops, which have the bone shortened and scraped clean 
of meat nearly to the "eye, " or kernel, are known as French 
chops. The hind leg, with what corresponds to the round of 
beef, is sold as leg of lamb, or mutton. It is roasted or boiled. 
Roasted or boiled mutton is served a little underdone; lamb, 
like veal, is preferable when thoroughly cooked. The fore- 
quarter is sold entire, or cut into shoulder and "scrag" (neck 
piece). This may be boiled or steamed, then browned in 
the oven. Before cooking it may be boned and rolled. It 
is also used for broth or stew. For a "saddle*' the loin is 
removed whole. "The crown" is fashioned from the ribs 
on corresponding sides. 

The fat of mutton of good quality is much whiter than that 
of beef. The bones of mutton are white, of lamb red. 

People who think they dislike mutton would be surprised 
at the difference in taste brought about by a little attention 
to simple details in cooking. The strong flavor attributable 
to mutton is largely centred in the pink outer skin. This, 
as also the caul, which is usually skewered about the leg 
and saddle, should be carefully removed before cooking. In 
roasting place the joint upon the rack (not upon the bottom 
of the dripping-pan in the melted fat) and baste with drip- 
pings from salt-pork, if preferred. The loin is rather more 
delicate in flavor than the leg, but the latter is the more 
economical piece to buy. 

LEG OF MUTTON, ROASTED 

Remove the caul, pink skin, and superfluous fat; cut the 
leg bone short, set into a hot oven for fifteen minutes, then 
reduce the heat, dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and 
baste with bacon or salt-pork drippings and hot water. 
Cook about an hour and a half, longer if liked well done. 
Dress the bone with a paper frill and surround on the serving- 
dish with buttered string-beans. Franconia potatoes, white 
turnips, parboiled and then cooked and basted with the 
meat, are also served acceptably with mutton or lamb. 
Currant jelly, spiced currants, bananas, baked or fried, or 



URDED SWEETBREAD, BAKED. TOURAINE STYLE, 



SADDLE OF M\JTT0N, ROASTED 139 

in fritters, are all appropriate with roast mutton. The loin 
being thinner — especially if the kidney and fat surrounding 
it be removed — ^may be roasted in less time. 

BONED-AND-STUFFED LEG OF MUTTON 

It is but the work of a very few minutes to remove the 
bone from a leg of mutton. Fill the open space with a bread 
dressing, highly flavored with sweet herbs or poultry season- 
ing, and salt and pepper. Sew the meat into a compact 
shape and roast about an hour and three quarters. Serve 
as above. What is "left over" is good cold. Add an egg 
to the dressing, if much of it is to be served cold. To bone, 
cut off the leg at the joint corresponding to the knee, loosen 
the flesh around this joint and with fingers and back of a 
small knife push the meat away from the bone at least as 
far as the next joint. Then reverse the leg and push and 
cut the meat from the hip-bone, and so on until the meat is 
detached from bone throughout, when it may be pulled out 
from above. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON, ROASTED 

The saddle may be cut either with or without the flank. 

The flank is more satisfactory, cooked some other way, but 

the saddle presents a better appearance, when the flank 

is retained; it is often rolled up on each side and kept in 

place by stitches in three or four places. If the flank be 

thus rolled, to insure thorough cooking, this side of the saddle 

should be placed uppermost — ^that is, to the greatest heat — 

when the joint is first put into the oven, or rather after the 

initial process of .searing over the outside has been completed. 

All superfluous fat should be removed. Dredge with salt, 

pepper, and flour; cook from one hour and three-fourths to 

.two hours and half. Garnish with rings of cooked carrot 

holding asparagus, or with turnip cups, glazed and filled 

with creamed peas, or asparagus tips. Carve in long slices 

parallel with the backbone, then turn the knife and cut down 

to the rib-bones. Turn the saddle and cut the tenderloin, 

also, in slices, parallel to the backbone. The tenderloin may 



140 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

be carefully removed, cut in slices, and returned to place, 
before the joint is sent to the table. Let currant jelly accom- 
pany the dish. 

CROWN ROAST OF MUTTON OR LAMB 

A crown roast is the most easily served and, at the same 
time, is the handsomest roast that has been devised. It may 
be fashioned from a full loin, but is of more perfect shape^ 
when cut from both loins and fastened together at the sides. 
Cut the same number of ribs from both sides of a rack of 
mutton, selecting ribs on one side that correspond to those 
on the other. Cut the ribs apart at the backbone, but separate 
the chops no farther. Trim the bones as for French 
chops, removing the trimmings to make the meat on the chops 
of uniform height. Or leave the trimmings on each side in 
one piece and roll this over and over backwards. When the 
ends are joined, a circle or crown of meat is formed. If 
necessary, trim the bones, to make all the same in length. 
Cover the ends of the bones securely with strips of salt-pork. 
Rub with salt, or add the salt when partly cooked. Set in 
a hot oven ten or fifteen minutes, then reduce the heat, and, 
if necessary to keep the dripping from burning, add hot water. 
Baste with the dripping, and cook from forty-five to sixty 
minutes, basting often. If convenient, press a cup into the 
centre of the circle of meat, to insure its shape. To serve, 
fill the centre from which the cup has been taken with green 
peas, blanched chestnuts, cooked tender in stock and glazed, 
Saratoga, Bernhardt, or French fried potatoes. A crown 
roast usually sells for twenty-five cents per pound, the flank 
being included in weighing the meat. Often the flank is not 
sent with the crown unless by special request. As the flank 
makes up nearly half the weight paid for, it should be claimed, 
being good for a stew. 

BOILED MUTTON 

The leg and shoulder are the pieces usually boiled. Put 
over the fire, barely covered with boiling water, and let boil 
about ten minutes, then simmer until tender; season with 



MUTTON CHOPS, BROILED 141 

salt when half cooked. A few slices of onion, carrot, and 
turnip, or two or three stalks of celery, may be added while 
cooking. When tender, brush over the meat with drawn- 
butter sauce and sprinkle with fine-chopped parsley. Serve 
with drawn butter-sauce, to a cup of which two tablespoonfuls 
of capers or chopped pickles have been added. The broth 
makes a particularly good tomato soup. 

MUTTON OR LAMB STEW 

3 or 3 pounds neck of mutton or A sprig of parsley with a bay 
lamb. * leaf .cloves and peppercorns. 

2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of dripping. Sal t . 

2 onions. 6 potatoes. 

I carrot. i pint of tomato pur^e 

Cut the meat into pieces two inches square, stir and brown 
in the hot dripping, add the onions,cut in pieces,with the spices 
and parsley and water to nearly cover the meat, and let simmer 
about two hours, then add the carrot, pared and sliced with a 
handy slicer (this gives a fluted edge), the salt, potatoes, cut in 
thick slices, and the tomato pur6e ; let simmer very slowly, 
until the meat and vegetables are tender. Wrap the bay 
leaf, cloves, and peppercorns in the parsley, to remove all 
together. A piece of red pepper is preferable to the pepper- 
corns. If more water be needed, add it cautiously, as a thin 
stew is not desirable. If lamb be used instead of mutton, 
the time of cooking should be shortened one-half or more. 
Green peas, about a pint, are a pleasing addition to a lamb 
stew. The tomato may be omitted er not. 

MUTTON CHOPS, BROILED 

Mutton chops should be cut at least an inch thick ; trim off 
superfluous fat; the small flank ends of loin chops may be cut 
off for the soup kettle, or skewered around the rest of the chop. 
The bones of rib chops should be trimmed to uniform length, 
then scraped clean down to the eye of tender meat. Or the 
meat, pushed from the bone, may be slit lengthwise a short 
distance, pulled over the rib-bone (the slit lets the bone 
through) and then around the chop and a tiny wooden skewer, 



142 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

dipped in melted butter, will hold it in place until it is cooked. 
Wipe the chops very carefully, to remove bits of crushed bone, 
and broil in the same manner as beef-steak, about eight 
minutes. When done, spread with butter and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Dress in a circle, one overlapping another, 
with potato-balls, straws, chips, or green peas, or string- 
beans, in the centre of the dish. Blanched chestnuts, cooked 
in broth, the broth then thickened with brown or white roux 
are good as an occasional accompaniment to chops. So also 
is a pur^e of onions. Or arrange the chops against a mound 
of mashed potato or chopped spinach. Rib chops are im- 
proved in appearance and may be handled (in eating) more 
conveniently, if the end of the bone be covered with a paper 
chop-frill. These cost about forty cents per hundred, or 
they may be fashioned at home. 

ROAST LAMB 

Either the fore or hind-quarter of a spring lamb may be 
roasted ; the hind-quarter is more easily carved, but the price 
is twice that of the fore-quarter. Eighteen minutes to the 
pound with frequent basting will be required for cooking. 
The accompaniments are mint-sauce, new string-beans, aspar- 
agus, or peas. 

MUTTON CHOPS, FRIED 

Prepare the chops as for broiling ; rub each side of the chops 
with the cut side of an onion, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
if desired, then egg- and-breadcrumb and fry in deep fat five 
or six minutes. Move the fat to the back of the range, after 
the chops are immersed in it, to complete the cooking. Serve 
as above. Pass tomato-sauce with the chops. "Frenched" 
chops are usually preferred for this dish. 

PAN-BROILED MUTTON CHOPS 

Prepare the chops as usual, but trim off the fat rather more 
closely. Put the chops in an iron frying-pan, heated very 
hot. Turn as soon as the under side is seared over and sear 
the other side; turn often and cook from six to ten miputes. 



MUTTON CHOPS A LA MARECHALE 143 

When all are cooked, arrange against the side of the pan and 
brown the fat on the edge. Spread with butter, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Tomato-sauce is usually acceptable 
with these chops. 

MUTTON CHOPS IN CASSEROLE 

For this dish six or eight chops from the fore-quarter may 
be used. Saute in butter or dripping until lightly browned, 
first on one side and then on the other. Put into the cas- 
serole on a bed of vegetables — an onion, one small carrot, 
and a turnip, cut into small pieces and sauted to a golden 
brown ; add broth or water just to touch the chops and also a 
little salt; cover tightly and let cook until tender. About 
two hours will suffice. A few mushrooms are an addition to 
the dish. Dried mushrooms, soaked over night in cold water, 
may be used. Serve from the dish. Sauce thickened with 
roux may be used instead of the stock or water ; or cornstarch 
diluted with water, may be added just before serving. The 
chops and vegetables may be cooked without browning, and 
cucumbers, cut in balls or olive shape, may be added instead 
of the mushrooms. In this case, when the cucumbers are 
tender, thicken the sauce and add a generous half-cup of 
cream. 

MUTTON CHOPS A LA MARB^CHALE 

Season French chops with salt and pepper and saut6 in 
clarified butter; let cool under a weight, then lightly spread 
both sides of the chops with a thin layer of crushed-and- 
chopped garlic, chopped shallot, mushrooms and parsley 
sauted in butter and simmered until the moisture has evap- 
orated, then added to a brown-sauce. The proportions for 
the fine herbs mixture are: one clove of garlic, four ounces of 
shallot, one pound of mushrooms and an ounce of parsley, to 
one cup of sauce. When cool, cover with a thin layer of chicken 
quenelle forcemeat (see page 257), then egg-and-bread- 
crumb, using equal parts of beaten yolk of egg and melted 
butter instead of whole eggs. Dispose on a baking-tin, pour 
over a little clarified butter, and reheat in the oven. Cover 



144 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the bones with frills and dress crown-shape on a rice croustade. 
Fill the centre with broiled mushroQin caps (two inches across). 
Serve the rest of the fine herb sauce, diluted with brown 
stock, as a sauce, adding seasoning and flavouring as needed. 

LAMB CHOPS A LA CATALANS 

12 lamb chops. 1-2 a cup of cooked lean 

1-2 a cup of thick Bechamel sauce. ham chopped. 
Paprika. Butter 

1-2 a cup of cooked mushrooms Tomato sauce, 
chopped. Red pepper, shredded and cooked 

Trim the chops rather close, paring the bones French fashion. 
Broil on one side only, having that side the same on all the 
chops. Sautd the mushrooms and cook in a little broth; 
use this broth with white stock in making the Bechamel 
sauce; use also twice the flour usually given for a pint of 
sauce. Season highly with paprika; add the mushrooms 
and ham and let become cold. Cover the cooked sides with a 
layer of the preparation, having it dome shaped. Arrange 
these in a buttered baking-pan, pour melted butter over the 
tops and finish cooking in a hot oven. The sauce needs be 
thick to avoid spreading too much. Cover the ends of the 
bones with frills and dress in two rows, one chop overlapping 
another, on a serving-dish, covered with a dish paper. Serve 
with tomato-sauce apart, to which half a red pepper, cooked 
and shredded, is added. 

LAMB CHOPS A LA BUSSY 

Use mushrooms, sweetbread, and chicken, or duck liver 
cut in quarter-inch cubes in AUemande sauce. Cover or 
not with chicken forcemeat and proceed as in the recipe 
above. Serve with cream, or Bechamel sauce. These dishes 
are often convenient, as they furnish a more substantial ser- 
vice than a plain lamb chop, and may be prepared, ready for 
the final cooking, sometime in advance. 

LAMB OR VEAL KIDNEY STEW 

Split a pair of fresh kidneys in halves. Take out the white 
fat and the sinew from the centre. Cover with cold water 



/ VEAL 1 45 

and let heat over a moderate fire. Just before the boiling 
point is reached, drain from the water and cut into small 
pieces. Cover again with cold water and heat again, being 
careful that the water does not boil, or the kidneys will harden. 
Brown two tablespoonfuls of butter in the frying-pan, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and brown, then stir in gradually 
one cup of stock, or water. Stir and cook several minutes, 
then add salt, pepper, kitchen bouquet, and one tablespoonful 
of mushroom catsup, and the slices of kidney. Stir until 
the slices are thoroughly heated, then remove from the fire. 
Add four tablespoonfuls of sherry, and serve with a table- 
spoonful of fine-chopped parsley, sprinkled over the top. If 
the water about the kidney boils, long cooking will be needed, 
to render them tender. 

VEAL 

"If you could be drawn to affect beef, venison, or fowl, it would be 
far better. "» — Beaumont and Fletcher. 

average chemical composition of veal as purchased 

(atwater) 

Protein Fuel Val. 

Refuse. Water. N X 6.35. Fat. Ash. per lb. 

Per Per Per Per Per Calo- 

Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. ries. 

Breast 21-3 52.0 iS-4 11. o .8 750 

Leg 14.2 60.1 15.5 7-9 -9 620 

Loin 16.5 57-6 16.6 9. .g 690 

Shank, hind 62.7 27.8 7.7 11. 7 .4 215 

Liver 730 19.0 5.3 1.3 575 

Veal and lamb, being immature, are not as nutritious as 
beef and mutton, nor are they as digestible. Like pork, veal 
needs be thoroughly cooked to be at all wholesome. The 
lean of good veal is of a pinkish color, the fat is white. Veal 
is lacking in flavor; its popularity, however, is due to this 
fact and to its delicacy of texture. Both of these facts render 
veal desirable as a foundation for "made" dishes. 

Veal is cut up in a manner similar to that in which mutton 
is cut. The hind-quarter is divided into loin and leg. From 
the leg is cut the "fillet," "fricandeau" and cutlets. The 



146 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 




"knuckle" of veal is that part of the leg just about the knee- 
bone; the shank is below, and cutlets or a fillet may be cut 
above. The loin is more delicate and less dry than the leg, 
but it is not as economical ; this can be seen by a glance at the 
chemical composition. It is used as a roast, or in chops. The 
breast is used for a roast, the knee and knuckle, for soups and 
stews. Veal is rich in gelatine, and a soup stock in which it 
is present usually jellies when cold. The flavour of pork 

Ways of Cooking. 

i Knuckle. Soup stock, stews 

Cutlets or fillet or I Q f^ 

Cutlets and fricandeau. J 

Loin. Chops and roasts. 

o. Head. Soup.made dishes. 

6. Breast. Stew, gelatine, 

js < 5. Ribs. Stew. 

^ 3. Shoulder. Stew. 

J? I I. Neck. Stew or stock. 

Brains. Made Dishes, Chafing Dish 

Liver Broiled, Sauted, Mock Pate Foie Gras. 

Heart Stuffed, Baked 

Tongue Boiled, Braised 

f Sauted 
Sweetbreads Parboiled i Fried. 

(Made Dishes. 
Kidneys. Boiled, Stew 

seems particularly well adapted to veal, and pork is usually 
chosen either alone, or with other flavors to make up for 
t'le deficiency of veal in this respect. When roasted or 
braised a fillet and a fricandeau are larded, or daubed with 
pork; sometimes a stuffing is used in the place of the pork, 
any cavity from which a bone can be taken affording a con- 
venient place for its entrance. The stuffing may be seasoned 
with sweet herbs, parsley, onion, mace, chopped mushrooms, 
and grated lemon. In England a fillet of veal is simmered 
in equal parts of milk and water, the liquid is thickened for 



VEAL, ROASTED 147 

a sauce, and to this parboiled oysters are added. The brains 
and sweetbreads are considered choice delicacies; both spoil 
quickly, and should be cooked without delay. Soaking in 
cold water is followed by parboiling in hot water, salted and 
acidulated, after which they may be kept for some little time. 
The points to be remembered in the cooking of veal are: 
flavor is to be added, and, to insure digestibility, long, slow 
cooking is required. 

VEAL ROASTED 

The fillet, a slice five or six inches thick from the heaviest 
part of the leg, — ^the part corresponding to the "round" in 
beef — ^is the most economical piece to buy for roasting, for 
cutlets, or made dishes. The fricandeau, or best part of the 
fillet, is sometimes served separately as a roast. Other roast- 
ing pieces are the "best end of neck," "loin," and chump, 
corresponding to ribs, sirloin, and the combined "aitch-bone" 
and rump in beef. To roast, remove bones, fill the sauce 
with bread stuffing (see previous paragraph) and with tape 
bind the meat into a compact shape. Lard the fricandeau, 
and spread thin slices of salt-pork over the other cuts ; dredge 
with salt, pepper, and flour. Put the meat into a hot oven, 
after fifteen minutes' cooking, lower the heat, baste frequently, 
and allow at least twenty minutes to the pound ; longer cook- 
ing will do no harm, if the heat be gentle and the joint be 
basted frequently. The fillet in particular is liable to be dry, 
unless it be freely basted. After the meat has been removed 
from the pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour to two table- 
spoonfuls of fat left in the pan, cook until frothy, then dilute, 
gradually, with one cup of water, or stock, let boil six or 
eight minutes, strain and serve as sauce. Green, French 
beans (flageolet) are particularly good to serve with roast 
veal, or mutton. The dried beans are always in the market, 
and sell for about thirty cents a quart. A cup of beans when 
cooked are sufficient for a family of five or six. They may 
be ptit to soak in cold water, or cooked without previous 
hydration. When tender and the water has evaporated, toss 
over the fire with butter and paprika. Add salt when per- 
fectly cooked. 



148 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



FILLET AND FRICANDEAU, BRAISED 

As the cutting of a fricandeau, which is the best part of the 
fillet, makes it impossible to cut a fillet from this quarter, 
the price is correspondingly high. This makes it a piece of 
distinction and, whether roasted or braised, it is usually 
larded on the best or smooth side. Put in the casserole 
(use cheap earthenware not designed for table service) on a 
bed of salt-pork, carrot, onion, turnip, and celery; add a 
"fagot" (see page 23) and stock, or water to one-third the 
height of the meat, and spread more vegetables over the top; 
cover closely and let cook very slowly about two hours, then, 
if the meat be nearly tender, remove the cover and brown 
the lardoons. Strain and thicken the gravy to serve with 
the meat. Spinach purde accompanies a fricandeau. When 
convenient, it is an improvement to glaze the meat with 
reduced stock. 

VEAL CUTLETS 

Speaking accurately, cutlets are what has been previously 
designated in speaking of mutton as chops; cote, from which 
cutlet is derived, means a rib, and properly a piece containing 
a rib is a cutlet. However, in cutting veal, a slice from the 
leg is quite generally termed a cutlet by marketmen and 
housekeepers. Veal cutlets, each containing a rib-bone, ' 
are cut so that when flattened with the wet cutlet-bat each 
will be half an inch thick. Brush over with olive oil, or 
melted butter, and broil eight minutes; if dipped in fresh 
white breadcrumbs broil nine minutes. Serve half a cup of 
tomato, or mushroom-sauce with each cutlet, or use a generous 
allowance of maitre d' hotel butter. 

VEAL CUTLETS, NO. 2, (PAPILLOTES) 

Trim the chops neatly and flatten as before. Saut^ in 
butter six minutes on each side. Remove from the frying'* 
pan and add one-fourth a cup of flour; when frotliy add a 
cup of broth gradually ; let boil five minutes, then strain over 
three tablespoonfuls of fine herbs (see Mutton Chops a la 



VEAL POT PIE 



149 




Veal Cutlet in Papillote 



Mardchale), and let simmer five minutes. For each cutlet 
cut a sheet of letter paper he^rt-shape (see diagram) large 
enough to leave of margin an inch and a half around the cutlet ; 
oil the paper, lay on it first a thin slice of bacon, add a table- 
spoonful of sauce, then a 
cutlet, another spoonful of 
sauce and above all a second 
slice of bacon. Fold the 
paper, and turn down the 
edges securely, as shown in 
the illustration. Broil the 
cutlets thus prepared over 
a slow fire about fifteen 
minutes, turning often, to 

avoid setting fire to the papers. To insure success, cut 
the papers large enough and fold them securely on the edges. 
If a double-broiler be used, let it be one having plenty of 
space between the hinges, to avoid crushing the papers. 
Serve in the papers. 

VEAL CUTLETS, NO. 3 

Cut a slice from the leg or fillet of veal, freed of bone, skin, 
and fat, into pieces for serving; flatten them with a wet bat, 
and dredge with salt, pepper, and flour; saut^ to a golden 
brown in bacon or salt-pork fat, then remove from the pan 
and add two tablespoonfuls of flour; stir and cook until brown, 
then add a cup and a half of broth or water; let boil, then 
add the cutlets, cover and let simmer three-quarters of an 
hour, or until the cutlets are tender. If preferred, egg-and- 
breadcrumb the cutlets instead of dredging them with flour. 

VEAL POT PIE 

Wipe a piece of veal from the shoulder and cut it into pieces 
for serving; add a half-inch strip of salt-pork or bacon for 
each piece of veal, cover with cold water, put over the fire 
and bring quickly to the boiling point, then, after boiling five 
minutes, skim and let simmer until the meat is tender. When 
nearly tender, add salt and pepper to season, and a biscuit 



ISO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

mixture cut into rounds. Cook ten minutes without lifting 
the cover. Serve the meat in the centre of the platter, the 
dumplings at the ends and the sauce, thickened, if needed, 
with flour and water, over the whole. Parboiled potatoes 
with other vegetables may be cooked in the stew. In this 
case the dumplings should not be added until the potatoes 
are half cooked. If there be a lack of broth, a cup of tomato 
pur^e may be added. The dumplings may be steamed fifteen 
minutes over a saucepan of boiling water. This is usually 
preferable, to avoid removing them from the fire until the 
instant of serving. The beaten yolks of two eggs, diluted 
with half a cup of cream and added to the sauce, give a 
richer dish. 

DUMPLINGS 

1 pint of flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda or 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. About i cup of sweet milk. 

The dough should be as soft as can be handled ; pat out 
half an inch thick and cut into small rounds. 

VEAL LOAF 

31-2 pounds of raw veal. 3 eggs, well beaten. 

1-4 a pound of fat salt pork. 3 tablespoon fuls of cream, milk. 
1-4 a pound of chicken or lean ham. white or tomato sauce. 

6 soda crackers. Juice of i lemon. 

6 mushrooms. i teaspoonful of sweet herbs or 

I tablcspoonful of salt. 1-2 a teaspoonful of mace. 

I teaspoonful of pepper. 

Pass the veal (that from the leg is best) and the pork through 
the meat-chopper together with the chicken, or ham, the 
mushrooms and the crackers The ham should have been 
cooked, and the mushrooms sautdd in butter. Add the other 
ingredients, mix thoroughly and shape into a compact loaf. 
Slide onto a tin baking-sheet, cover with scored slices of salt- 
pork and bake on a rack in the dripping-pan about two hours, 
basting every ten minutes. Serve hot, with a sauce made 
in the pan after the loaf has been removed; or, preferably, 
serve cold, sliced thin, with a vegetable salad. 



PRIED CALF'S LIVER 151 



CHICKEN LOAF 

Prepare as veal loaf, substituting the flesh from two un- 
cooked fowl, weighing about three and one-third pounds each, 
one pound of veal and a cup of blanched almonds for the 
chicken or ham and the veal given in the recipe. 

PRESSED CHICKEN OR VEAL 

Cover a young fowl, cut in joints, with boiling water, and 
let simmer until tender together with a few slices of carrot, 
half an onion, and a stalk of celery. Remove the skin and 
bones, and return them with broth to the fire, and let simmer 
until reduced to about one cup ; strain and set aside. When 
the flesh is nearly cold, cut into tiny cubes, or chop fine ; remove 
the fat from the broth, reheat, and stir the chicken into it, 
adding salt and pepper and other seasoning, if desired. Dec- 
orate a mould with "hard-boiled" eggs cut in slices; in this 
pack the hot chicken, cover with a buttered paper bearing 
a weight, and let stand until cold and set. Use a knuckle of 
veal in the same manner as the chicken. Serve, sliced thin, 
with salad. Good with potato or tomato salad. 

BROILED CALF'S LIVER AND BACON 

Cook the bacon as on page 160. Cut the liver in slices 
half an inch thick, cover with boiling water and let stand 
five minutes; wipe dry, then dip in the bacon fat, sprinkle 
lightly with pepper and broil five minutes, turning every ten 
seconds. Serve with the bacon. 

PRIED CALF'S LIVER (STEAMER PRISCILLA) 

Cut the liver in slices half an inch thick, cover with boiling 
water, and let stand five minutes; wipe dry, rub over with 
the cut side of an onion, season with pepper and salt, roll in 
flour or breadcrumbs, then in eggs and breadcrumbs. Fry 
in deep fat about five minutes. In the meantime put ten 
or twelve slices of bacon in a double-broiler over a dripping- 
pan into the oven and cook until crisp. Serve the liver and 
bacon with a garnish of parsley and lemons cut in quarters. 



15^ PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CALF'S LIVER LOAF 

Remove the skin from a calf's iiver, and cut the flesh into 
slices; cook in boiHng salted water five minutes, then drain 
and chop fine. Add one teaspoonful of onion juice, half a 
cup of fine breadcrumbs that have been soaked in cold water 
and then wrung dry in a cloth, a scant teaspoonful of salt, 
half a teaspoonful of poultry seasoning, two eggs, well beaten, 
and the juice of half a lemon, or one tablespoonful of vinegar; 
mix thoroughly. Line a brick-shaped baking-pan with thin 
slices of bacon, or salt-pork, press the mixture tightly into 
the pan, cover with pork and steam, or bake in the oven, two 
hours or more. Turn from the mould, remove the bacon, 
and serve with tomato-sauce. If it is to be served cold, leave 
in the pan until ready to slice. 

SWEETBREADS 

The price of sweetbreads varies with the season, in winter 
being about double what it is in the spring. In the country 
they are often thrown away, and when sold bring not more 
than twenty-five cents a pair. In the city the price varies 
from seventy-five cents to one dollar and a half a pair. Al- 
though we speak of sweetbreads as a pair, there is in reality 
but one sweetbread, consisting of two parts connected by a 
short membrane. The pancreas is sometimes sold for the 
sweetbread, but the sweetbread proper is found higher up 
in the throat and breast, and is not connected with the pan- 
creas. Only a vestige of the sweetbread remains after the 
calf begins to eat grass, while the pancreas is a permanent 
gland of the animal. 

As they spoil very quickly, sweetbreads should be attended 
to as soon as received from the market. After being soaked 
in cold water an hour or more, the water being renewed several 
times, let simmer for about twenty minutes in salted, acid- 
ulated water, then remove to cold water to harden. Remove 
all the tubes, outside skin, and fibres, but do not break the 
sweetbreads themselves. When cooled a little tie each piece 
in a bit of cheesecloth, drawing the cloth quite tightly, in some 



FRIED SWEETBREADS 153 

cases, to make the pieces of a nearly uniform surface and oval 
form, then cool under a weight. 

SWtt&TBREADS LARDED AND BAKED (HOTEL TOURAINE) 

2 pairs of sweetbreads. i can of peas or i pint of cooked 
Truffles. fresh peas. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter or cream 
2 slices of onion. 3 large mushroom caps. 

6 slices of carrot. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1-4 a cup of glaze (dark) . i tablespoonful of floiu*. 

I cup of cream. 

Lard the blanched sweetbreads with truffles, saut^ in the 
butter with the onion and carrot, drain off the butter, add the 
glaze and cook in a moderate oven, basting often, until the 
sweetbreads are well glazed; the cooking is simply to reheat 
and glaze them. Pass the peas through a sieve, season with 
salt and pepper and reheat with the butter, or cream. If 
the peas have been canned, add a teaspoonful of sugar. When 
the pea-pulp is reheated and quite dry, shape into nests, 
using a pastry-bag and tube. Dispose the sweetbreads in the 
nests and pour about them the mushrooms, cut in Julienne 
style, sauted in the butter, dredged with the flour, and then 
simmered in the cup of cream and the liquid left in the pan 
in which the sweetbreads were glazed. 

LARDED SWEETBREADS BAKED 

Lard two pairs of blanched sweetbreads, alternately, with 
small salt-pork lardoons, and lardoons cut from the yellow 
rind of a lemon. Set in a dish into the oven with a cup of 
brown stock, to which bits of , salt-pork and vegetables have 
been added and let cook twenty minutes basting frequently. 
Serve with a brown mushroom-sauce, or with the stock in the 
pan, thickened with roux and strained. 

FRIED SWEETBREADS 

Cut the parboiled and cooled sweetbreads in slices of uniform 
thickness, egg-and-breadcrumb and fry in deep fat. Dress 
on a hot folded serviette. Serve with Bemaise, or Tartare 



154 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sauce, or omit the sauce and serve with green peas. They 
may be sauted in butter instead of frying in deep fat. 

SWEETBREADS IN BROWN, CREAM, BECHAMEL, OR 

POULETTE SAUCES 

Parboiled and cooled sweetbreads cut into cubes, reheated 
in any one of the sauces mentioned above, mixed with coeked 
chicken, mushrooms, veal or oysters, also cut in cubes are 
served in patties, timbale cases, vol-au-vents, etc. They 
are also chopped coarsely and used in croquettes either alone, 
or in combination with other material. 

CALF'S HEAD, BRAINS AND TONGUE 

These, especially the brains, are considered great delicacies. 
The brains may be bought apart for about twenty cents a 
set; but the whole head, including the brains and tongue, is 
sold for Ihe same price. In buying the head have it dressed 
(split apart and unedible portions removed) before it is sent 
home, then soak and scrub in cold water. Put over 
the fire to cook in cold water; when the water boils, 
pour it ofiF and cover again with cold water, thus blanch- 
ing it. When the head becomes cold, rub over with the cut 
side of a lemon, and cover with boiling water; add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of white wine, vinegar, or lemon juice, 
a bay leaf, an onion, pierced with half a dozen cloves, a few 
slices of carrot and sprigs of parsley, cover and let simmer 
until tender. Take out the bones and use the meat in ** made " 
dishes and the broth for a soup. The meat may be packed 
in a mould and the broth seasoned with salt strained over it. 
When cold, the jellied head may be cut in slices. The tongue 
cooked with the head may be served without other prepara- 
tion than skinning. Soak the brains in cold water several 
hours, changing the water several times. Tie in a cheese- 
cloth and let simmer twenty minutes in highly seasoned stock. 
When cold use as sweetbreads. 



I 



PORK 155 



PORK 

"0 father, the pig, the pig ! Do come and taste how nice the burnt 
pig tastes. " 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OP PORK AS PURCHASED (aTWATER) 

Puel Val. 
Refuse Water Protein Fat Ash per lb. 

Percent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Calories. 

Loin 15.8 43.8 14. 1 25.6 .7 1.340 

Ham 14. 4 34.9 133 33-4 -4 1.655 

Salt Clear Fat 7.3 1.8 87.2 3.7 3.715 

Bacon, Smoked 8 i6.8 9.2 61.8 4.2 2.780 

In these latter days pork has come to be looked upon with 

distrust, and is rarely, save in the form of ham, or bacon, 

seen upon the best tables. There may be good reason for 

this; but, after all, if we know that the animal from which 

the roast is taken has been housed in a clean place and fed 

upon wholesome food, who will not be tempted, occasionally, 

to taste a savory and fragrant roast of well-crisped pork? 

Who can doubt that the "burnt pig, *' that had been fed upon 

mast by Loti, the swineherd, was as delectable as it was set 

forth in the Chinese manuscript transcribed for our edification 

by Charles Lamb ? Why should not young pigs, allowed to 

roam at will in the woods and fatten upon sweet acorns, be 

as wholesome as turkeys that are fed upon chestnuts, or com ; 

for does not the pith of the whole matter depend upon the 

feeding ? 

When we consider the high percentage of fat in pork and, 
consequently, its high fuel value, we understand why it was 
that, in the traditional days of old, when houses were ill- 
heated and the rigors of a long, cold winter had to be con- 
tended against by rich and poor alike, there was more need 
of the historic Christmas dish, the boar's head of merrie Eng- 
land, than is apparently the case to-day. 

The curing of salt-pork, bacon, and hams by salting and, 
in case of the two latter, by smoking, acts much as does pas- 
teurization in milk to render them more wholesome. The 
skin of well-fed pork is fine rather than coarse, is white and 
clear. The flank and the thick layer of fat over the flesh of 



iS6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the loin and ribs is cured for salt-pork and, when of good 
quality, is of a delicate pinkish opal tint. If the pigs be 
young, the sides or flanks are transformed by salting and 
smoking into bacon. The upper part of the hind legs, the 
hams, and the upper part of the fore legs (shoulders) are salted 
and smoked. The flesh of the loin (chine) and ribs (spare- 
ribs), denuded of fat, is cut into roasts, or chops. Fresh pork 
is most unwholesome unless it be thoroughly cooked. 

Contrary to the general rule for roasting meat, a roast of 
pork should not be put into a quick oven, lest the outside be 
seared over and the heat be prevented from penetrating the 
inmost centre. Twenty or twenty-five minutes to the pound 
in a slow oven is about the length of time required in cooking. 

Ham and bacon, if properly cured, need little cooking 
when broiled or fried. A high temperature, or long-con- 
tinued cooking — unless very much prolonged — toughens 
the fibres and impairs digestibility. The thin-sliced bacon 
of the epicure is served just as soon as heat renders it trans- 
parent. 

Apple-sauce, sweetened sparingly, is, on account of the 
fat splitting property of acids, a fitting accompaniment to all 
dishes of pork, ham, and bacon. 

TO CURB HAMS AND BACON (FOR FIFTY POUNDS) 

6 pounds of salt. i ounce of bicarbonate of soda. 

2 1-2 pounds of sugar or i ounce of saltpetre. 

I 1-2 quarts of molasses. 2 gallons or more of water. 

Cover the bottom of an oak barrel, or firkin, with a layer 
of salt; mix the rest of the salt and the sugar, or molasses, 
and with this rub thoroughly each ham or strip of bacon and 
put them skin side down in the barrel. Put any unused salt 
and sugar in the water, add the soda and saltpetre, dissolved 
in a little water, and pour this over the meat; there should 
be enough to cover well the meat; place a board bearing 
a weight on top of the meat; let remain from four to eight 
weeks, according to the size of the pieces; drain for two days, 
then smoke in a place from which the air is excluded, fotir 
weeks with corncobs, green hickory, or maplewood. Hang 



PORK TENDERLOIN, GERMAN STYLE 157 

the hams, hock downwards, as the skin will retain the juices of 
the meat; 

CROWN OP PORK WITH SMALL ONIONS 

Cut pieces containing six ribs from each side of a rack of 
pork, having the two pieces of the same length and height; 
remove the backbone and make an incision between the 
ribs; trim each rib above the eye as for French lamb chops; 
turn the rib-bones outside and the eyes of the chops inside 
and sew the two pieces together. Mix a cup of sausage-meat 
with a cup of stale breadcrumbs, softened in cold water and 
wrung dry; add an egg, beaten slightly, and additional sea- 
sonings, if needed. Put the crown in the baking-pan, and the 
sausage mixture in the open space inside the crown, cover the 
bones with buttered paper, dredge with salt, pepper, and 
flour and bake in a slow oven between two and three hours, 
basting every ten minutes with the dripping to which a little 
hot water is added. Saut^ to a delicate brown enough small 
peeled onions to fill the crown; add stock and let cook until 
tender, glazing the onions with the stock as it cooks away. 
Remove the crown carefully to a serving-dish, so as to avoid 
breaking the sausage filling, place the onions in the centre 
above the filling and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. 
Serve with this apple-sauce and tomatoes in some form. 

PORK CHOPS 

Have the chops cut about half an inch thick ; trim off super- 
fluous fat, saut^ slowly until well browned and thoroughly 
cooked, or set on the rack in the baking-pan into the oven 
and let cook until well browned. The oven needs to be hotter, 
cMi account of the small size, than for a large roast. It will 
take about twenty-five minutes to cook the chops in either 
way. Serve with apple-sauce. 

PORK TENDERLOIN, GERMAN STYLE 

Saut^ the tenderloin, cut in suitable pieces for serving, in 
melted butter until slightly browned on both sides, then cover 
and let simmer fifteen minutes, turning once. Add sweet 



158 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cream to cover the meat in part and cook fifteen minutes 
longer, or until the pieces are easily pierced with a fork. 
Remove to a serving-dish, add enough flour, stirred with 
water, or broth, to thicken the liquid, let simmer ten minutes, 
then add a little lemon juice and pour over the meat. Or, 
omit the lemon from the sauce and serve in a bowl; place a 
slice of lemon on each piece of pork. Season the meat with 
salt after the cream is scalded. 

PORK CROQUETTES, GERMAN STYLE 

I small onion. Ground pepper and nutmeg. 

I pound of tender uncooked pork. i ounces of grated bread. 
1 2 boned anchovies. 3 eggs. 

I tablespoonful of chopped capers 3 tablespoonfuls of thick sour 

cream. 

Cook the onion until tender in butter, then chop with the 
pork until fine; freshen the anchovies, remove the bones and 
chop fine ; add to the pork with the capers and other ingred- 
ients, and mix thoroughly. With the hands form into small 
cutlet shapes rather less than half an inch thick, sautd in hot 
butter, first on one side and then on the other, to a golden 
brown. Make a hole in the small ends of the cutlets and 
insert a sprig of parsley. Serve with fine vegetables, aspar- 
agus, peas, or string-beans buttered. 

SAUSAGE WITH APPLE SAUCE 

Cover the sausage pricked in every part with a fork with 
boiling water, let simmer fifteen minutes, then drain and 
brown in the oven, or on the top of the stove. Make a syrup 
of a cup, each, of sugar and water and in this cook very care- 
fully four or five tart apples, cored, pared and sliced in rings. 
Serve these, drained from the syrup, around the sausage 
arranged in the centre of the dish. 

SAUSAGE BAKED W^ITH BEANS 

Let one quart of pea-beans soak over night in soft water; 
wash, drain and cook until very tender, but not broken, in 
boiling water, changing the water at least twice. Put the 



SAUSAGE WITH APPLE SAUCE. (S« page is8.) 



> WITH CIDER. ON BED OF LETTUCE RIBBONS. 



HAM. SLICED THIN. 



SALT PORK, COUNTRY STYLE 159 

beans into a baking-dish with links of sausage, here and there, 
using in all about a pound of sausage. Dissolve two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt in a quart of boiling water and pour over 
the beans, adding more, if needed, to cover. Bake five or 
six hours. Serve hot with tomato catsup. Press the "left 
over" closely into an oval-shaped dish, taking no care to 
retain the shape of the beans. If needed, a plate bearing a 
weight may be placed on the top. When cold, turn from 
the dish and cut into slices. Garnish with celery leaves, or 
parsley. Serve with a beet or tomato salad. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS WITH PORK 

I pint of pea beans. i teaspoon ful of mustard 

I teaspoonful of soda. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1-4 td 1-2 a pound of salt pork, i tablespoonful of molasses or sugar. 

Soak the beans in cold water (soft water preferred) over 
night. In the morning wash and rinse thoroughly, then par- 
boil until they are soft enough to pierce with a pin and no 
longer. Change the water while parboiling; always using 
boiling water for cooking and rinsing. During the last boiling 
add soda. Rinse thoroughly in hot water. Put one-half 
of the beans into the bean-pot. Pour scalding hot water over 
the salt-pork and score the rind in half-inch strips. Put into 
the bean-pot above the beans and pour in the remainder of 
the beans. Mix the mustard, salt, and molasses, or sugar, 
with hot water and pour over the beans; add boiling water 
to cover. Bake about eight hours in a moderate oven. Keep 
the beans covered with water and, also, the cover on the pot 
until the last hour. The pork may be drawn to the surface 
and browned during the last hour. 

SALT PORK, COUNTRY STYLE 

Select clear, fat pork and cut in slices about one-third an 
inch in thickness; cover these with boiling water; then dip 
the slices, one at a time, in flour, first on one side and then 
on the other and put at once into a hot frying-pan; let cook 
slowly until well browned, then turn and brown on the other 
side and drain on soft paper. When well cooked but little 



i6o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

remains save a dry crispy shell. Drain off part of the fat, 
and into the rest put some apples, cored and sliced without 
paring ; stir with the fat, then cover and let cook slowly until 
tender, turning carefully now and then. Serve around the 
pork, or serve the pork upon the apple. 

BACON AS A BREAKFAST RELISH 

Cut the bacon in slices as thin as possible; this can be easily 
done, if the rind be first removed; or slice down to the rind, 
then run the knife under the slice close to the rind. Lay the 
slices in a hot frying-pan ; as soon as they begin to look clear, 
turn, and in a few seconds remove to a soft paper to drain. 
Or, in a double-broiler over a dripping-pan set into a hot oven 
and let cook until the slices look clear. 

BOILED HAM 

Let the ham soak several hours, or over night, after scraping 
and scrubbing thoroughly with a brush. To cook, cover 
with cold water, bring slowly to the boiling point, let boil a 
few moments, then skim and let simmer five hours or more. 
When tender set aside to partially cool in the liquid, then 
remove, draw off the skin, brush over with beaten yolk of 
egg diluted with milk, sprinkle with sugar and cracker-crumbs 
mixed together, and set in the oven to brown. Cover the 
bone with a paper frill. Garnish the dish with parsley. Also 
serve cold, thinly sliced. Nasturtium leaves and blossoms 
make a most appropriate garnish for a platter of thin-sliced 
cold-boiled ham. 

HAM BAKED WITH CIDER 

Soak and scrub the ham ; when ready to cook make a dough 
or thick paste of flour and water and spread over the ham, 
encasing it completely; set on the rack in a baking-pan into 
a hot oven to cook the paste, then lower the temperature and 
let cook about five hours. About an hour before cooking is 
done, make a hole in the paste and pour in a cup of hot cider; 
repeat this twice if needed, or use for liquid what drips into 
the pan. When tender, remove crust and skin from three- 



HAM CROUTONS i6i 

fourths of the ham, leaving one-fourth of the skin about the 
shank-bone. 

Brush the skinned portion with beaten yolk of egg and 
sprinkle with cracker-crumbs mixed with sugar and return 
to the oven to brown. Serve hot or cold. To serve cold, dip 
olives, cut in halves with stone removed, into a little dissolved 
gelatine and press them about the ham close to the skin ; con- 
ceal the bone with a paper frill and surround with a wreath of 
lettuce cut in narrow ribbons. Capers, chilies, and lard 
pipings also are used to decorate a . cold-boiled ham, served 
whole. 

HAM COOKED IN A CASSEROLE 

Scrub and soak the ham. Put in a large earthen casserole 
(these can be bought for a dollar) with a kitchen bouquet, 
a cup of soup vegetables, a quart of water, and a pint of cidet; 
cover closely, pasting a strip of cotton cloth around the joint 
where the dish and cover meet; let cook in the oven, or on 
top of the range, without boiling, about six hours. Finish 
as a boiled, or baked ham. Strain the liquid and use in mak- 
ing a sauce to serve with the ham when hot. 

BROILED HAM 

Cut the ham very thin. If mild cured, broil over bright 
coals three or four minutes; if very salt, let stand in boiling 
water five or ten minutes, then dry and broil. For fried 
ham proceed in the same way, using the hot frying-pan in 
place of the broiler. 

HAM CROUTONS 

Dip long kite-shaped pieces of bread in melted butter; 
brown in the oven, then let cool. Arrange these in a circle on 
a serving-dish, the narrow ends meeting in the centre. Pound 
a cup of lean, cooked ham, chopped fine, half a cup of butter, 
and four tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce to a paste; pass 
through a pur^e sieve, then pipe — using a bag with star tube 
attached — ^upon the pieces of bread. Garnish the piping 
with chopped white of egg. Place stoned olives or pimolas 



i62 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and sprig of parsley between the croutons. Use hard-boiled 
white of egg, or, better still, two or three uncooked whites 
and a tablespoonful of milk or cream to each white, beaten 
together; turn into a buttered dish and poach gently until 
firm in water *' just off the boil. '* Serve as a limcheon dish, 
or as a hors d 'cEUvre. 

JELLIED PICKLED PIGS' FEET (MRS. T. B. WHEELOCK, 

ST. PAUL) 

6 cleaned pigs* feet. Piece of red pepper pod. 

A bay leaf. Salt. 

6 cloves. A sprig of parsley. 

I large onion sliced. White wine Nanegar. 

Cook the feet in boiling water tmtil nearly tender, then add 
the bay leaf, onion, cloves, pepper-pod, parsley, and salt, 
and finish cooking. Take out the feet, skim off the fat and 
strain the liquid. Remove the large bones from the feet 
and place the latter in an earthen bowl; add vinegar to the 
liquid (half liquid and half broth, if the vinegar be not too 
strong) and pour over enough to cover the feet. If there be 
much more broth than is required, reduce by slow cooking 
before the vinegar is added, to insure a jellied condition when 
cold. 



[ CROUTOXS. (Sec | 



BOSTOM BAKED BEAVS, 



BOSTON' BAKED BEANS READY FOR BAKING, (Sect 



CHAPTER V 

Poultry and Game 

"Stuff it and roast it and baste it with care; 
Daintily then the gravy prepare, 
While 'round you the savory odors shall tell, 

Whate'er is worth doing is worth doing well. " — L. F. G. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OP POULTRY AND GAME AS 

PURCHASED (aTWATER) 

Fuel Val. 
Refuse Water Protein Fat Ash per lb. 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Calories. 

Chicken.. 34-8 48.5 14.8 i.i .8 500 

Fowl 30.0 45.6 13.4 10.2 .8 680 

Turkey. 22.7 42.4 17.7 18.4 .8 1.070 

Goose 22.2 33 I 10.3 33-8 .6 1.620 

The term poultry includes all domestic birds used as food. 

Game is a term applied to wild animals taken in hunting, 

trapping, fowling, and fishing. Pigeon and squab are included 

under game. In some localities game is lower in price than 

beef or mutton. Game is rich in phosphates and, on account 

of the natural manner in which wild creatures feed and live 

and, also, from absence of fat, it is more readily digested than 

most nitrogenous foods. When hung a proper length of time, 

the flesh of most game is tender. (Wild geese and ducks 

excepted.) The custom of allowing game to hang to induce 

" high " flavor is a menace to the health of the consumer and 

should be discouraged: particularly in case of game of dark 

color, w^hich is usually serv^ed quite rare. The best cuts of 

venison correspond to the best cuts of beef or mutton and 

are cooked in the same manner. Spring chickens hatched 

in incubators may be had for broiling at almost any season of 

the year, but from January to July the price is too high to 

163 



i64 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

admit of purchase save on rare occasions. From July 
to September the price is such that they may be con- 
sidered among the possibilities for a Sunday dinner, or a 
"little dinner" when guests are in attendance. Young tur- 
keys in August and September are delicacies purchasable 
by the few. All fowl are in their prime from November to 
March. When admissible all birds- should be dry-picked and 
** drawn" as soon as killed. This last precaution insures a 
wholesome and well-flavoured viand. Pin feathers indicate 
a young fowl; hairs an older one. If the end of the breast- 
bone be cartilaginous, bending easily, the fowl is not more 
than a year old ; after that age the cartilage hardens into bone. 
The legs and feet of a young fowl are soft and smooth to the 
touch; upon the legs of older fowl the scales are sharp and 
pronounced, and the spurs are strong and large. 

HOW TO CLEAN AND DRAW FOWL 

Many poulterers singe and draw fowl ; they also remove the 
tendons from the drumsticks, whereby that joint is very 
much improved. The dealer has all the conveniences for 
this work, and, if he attend to these matters, the time and 
strength of the housekeeper are saved. At the same time 
he will need looking after; the lungs and bean-shaped kidneys 
lie in small cavities, and only the careful, painstaking market- 
man takes trouble to remove them. 

If this work be done at home, the first thing, the fowl having 
been picked, is to remove pin-feathers and all feather stumps 
remaining in the skin; a strawberry-huUer is the best thing 
yet devised for this purpose. Singeing is next in order. One, 
or two tablespoonfuls of alcohol ignited on a tin dish affords 
the best means for doing this ; lighted paper may also be used. 
Take the bird by the head and feet and turn it constantly, that 
the flame may touch every part. To singe small birds run 
four or five at a time a little distance apart on a long skewer, 
then taking the skewer by the ends pass them over the flame, 
turning the skewer meanwhile. 

Cut off the head, — ^the heads of canvasback and other choice 
varieties of wild duck and those of small birds are often left 



HOW TO CLEAN AND DRAW FOWL 165 

on the body — and after loosening the crop by passing the 
finger around the same, draw out the gullet with crop attached 
and the windpipe ; if the crop be not very full — as it should not 
be— this may be done without making a slit in the skin of the 
neck. When necessary to cut the skin it should be done at the 
back. Cut off the neckbone even with the top of the breast, 
but do not cut off the skin. When the fowl is trussed, the 
skin may be brought down under the tips of the wings and 
fastened either with a skewer, or the thread that is used in 
trussing. 

Cut carefully just through the skin of the leg at the joint, 
or make a cut lengthwise through the skin below the joint; 
at either place the tendons running up into the drumstick 
will be exposed, and with a trussing-needle or skewer they 
may be drawn out one after another. At the market the 
poulterer, after slitting the skin to lay the tendons bare, hangs 
the fowl, first by the tendons in one leg and then by those in 
the other, upon a meat-hook and with a single pull the 
tendons are drawn. The Little Giant tendon puller has been 
devised lately; by its use all the tendons in one leg of a fowl 
may be drawn at once. When one sees how easily these are 
removed, it seems strange that this really marked improve- 
ment in the dressing of turkeys is so universally omitted. 
Cut a small opening just through the skin under the rtmip, 
near the vent, insert at first one and afterwards two fingers 
and pass them around close to the body, between the body 
and internal organs, at first close to the breast-bone, then 
reach in beyond the liver and heart and loosen on either side 
down close to the back. After all the internal organs are 
loosened, take hold of the gizzard, which lies at the base of 
the breast-bone, and draw this out gently and all that has 
been loosened will follow. In drawing a fowl avoid breaking 
the gall-bladder attached to the liver, the liquid from which 
will cause a bitter taste in whatever it comes in contact with. 
The lungs, lying in cavities under the breast, and the kidneys 
in cavities in the backbone, need to be taken out 
separately. 

Wipe out, or rinse if needed, and dry thoroughly. All 



i66 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

birds to be served whole are cleaned and drawn after this 
manner. 

DRESSING FOWL FOR BROILING 

When birds are to be broiled, they are cleaned and the ten- 
dons are drawn in the same manner, but they are drawn in a 
different way. Lay the bird upon the meat-board breast 
down, and with a sharp strong knife cut down through the 
flesh on each side of the backbone, from the neck to the rump, 
thus cutting out the rump, the backbone, and the neck; lift 
up the backbone slightly and with the fingers loosen the 
internal organs from the back, first on one side and then on 
the other, then loosen them from the breast; after this has 
been done, the neck, backbone, and nrnip, with all the internal 
organs attached, may be separated in one mass from the 
rest of the bird ; now carefully scrape and push the flesh from 
the breast-bone and remove that; remove the rib-bones; 
cut off the legs at the second joint; and cut through the sinews 
at other joints. 

DRESSING A FOWL FOR A FRICASSEE 

Singe, remove pin-feathers and tendons, then separate 
the fowl into pieces at the joints. Beginning with the legs, 
cut through the loose skin between the legs and the body, 
bend the leg and cut off at the joint; by moving the legs a 
little the joint between the "second joint" and drumstick 
can be ascertained; cut through the flesh at this place, then 
sever the ligaments. Cut through the skin and flesh on the 
under side where the wing joins the body, and disjoint the 
wing. Make an incision between the ends of the breast-bone 
and the tail, near the latter; carefully cut through the skin 
from the incision to the backbone on each side. Then remove 
all internal organs. Cut through the ribs, and the articu- 
lation at the top of the collar-bone, thus separating the 
breast and back ; divide the back by cutting through the middle 
crosswise. Often the wishbone and flesh attached to it are 
cut off and the rest of the breast chopped into two parts at 
the bone ; these, however, are not natural divisions, but con- 



BONING TO PRESERVE SHAPE 167 

venient for serving. Wipe the pieces with a damp cloth and 
wash the inside of those that need it ; do not soak in water. 
A fowl for broiling or for fricassee needs to be fresfcer than for 
roasting. If a fowl have an odor about it that indicates 
long keeping, wash on the inside with water in which a little 
soda has been dissolved and let stand until time of cooking 
with bits of charcoal inside. Chickens and turkeys one year 
old are best for roasting. When older steam for an hour or 
more, then finish cooking and brown in the oven. 

THE GIBLETS 

The gizzard, heart, and liver are known as the giblets. To 
clean, cut the gall-bag (small green appendage) from the 
liver to which it is attached; do not break this. Press the 
blood from the valves of the heart, remove the fat from the 
gizzard, cut through the thick part just to the inner lining 
and peel this from the inside, or second stomach; cut away 
the white gristle, retaining the thick fleshy portion. Wash 
all thoroughly and use with the neck and tips of the wings in 
soup, in giblet-sauce, in stuffing, or forcemeat. The liver 
is considered a delicacy ; the liver of game birds, roasted, or 
broiled, is mashed, highly seasoned and spread upon the 
toast upon which the bird is served. 

BONING POULTRY AND BIRDS 

Bones are a much more valuable acquisition to the soup 
kettle, if they be added uncooked. Poultry and birds, boned 
and filled with forcemeat, may be served either hot or cold, 
and have the advantage of being easily carved. They may 
be boned in either of two ways, according to the shape they 
are to assume; one is used when the skin and flesh is to be 
rolled around stuffing; the other when the natural shape is 
to be restored by stuffing. In either case it is desirable to 
keep the skin as whole as possible. 

BONING TO PRESERVE SHAPE 

In this process the skin with the flesh attached is to be 
separated intact from the bones which support it; the fingers 



i68 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and the back of a sharp, pointed knife are most serviceable in 
pushing and scraping the flesh from the bones, and the sharp 
edge of the knife when cutting is desirable. Singe, remove 
the pin-feathers, head, tendons, and, lastly, the feet, wipe 
carefully, but do not draw the bird, as a firm foundation upon 
which to work is desirable. 

Loosen the skin around the end of the leg-bone, and cut 
through the skin on the back from the neck to about the mid- 
dle of the back. Beginning on one side, scrape the flesh with 
the skin from the backbone to the free end of the shoulder- 
blade, push the flesh from this, and then follow the bone to the 
articulation of the wing, then down to the middle joint of the 
wing, free this and disjoint the bone at the tip-joint; free the 
flesh from the other shoulder-blade and wing in the same way, 
then push the flesh from each collar-bone down to the breast- 
bone, separating the crop from the flesh. The skin lies very 
close over the edge of the ridge of the breast-bone, and great 
care must be exercised to keep it whole ; use the fingers rather 
than the knife. Now separate the flesh from the ribs, taking 
care not to penetrate the lining into the inside ; push the flesh 
from the second joint, then from the leg, pulling the flesh 
down over the ends of the legs, where the skin was loosened 
at first, just as one often turns a glove wrong side out, when 
it does not come off easily; free the bones on the other side in 
the same way, then push the skin from the backbone until 
the rump is reached; cut through the bone, leaving a part of 
it in the rump. Now, when the skin on the under part is 
separated from the lining membrane, the edible portion of 
the bird (saving the giblets) is in one piece and the bony struc- 
ture with the internal organs in another. 

BONING FOR A GALANTINE 

Prepare the fowl as before, but cut the skin down the whole 
length of the backbone, then work the flesh from the bones 
on either side just as before, except that the skin upon the 
wings and legs need not be so carefully freed from the bones, 
as it is pulled inside to give a rectangular shaped piece. 



CHICKEN DRESSED F 



BACK OF TURKEY TRUSSED FOR ROASTING, 



TRUSSING POULTRY AND BIRDS 169 



STUFFING POULTRY AND SMALL BIRDS 

Poultry and birds that are to be baked or roasted are usually 
stuffed, as it gives them a plumper appearance, though occa- 
sionally some one suggests that the stuffing absorbs much of 
the flavor of the bird so dressed and recommends the dis- 
continuance of this practice. For a change omit the stuffing, 
but thrust an onion, or a piece of bread into the cavity to 
produce moisture. If the birds are small, so that they do not 
require long cooking, two, or three mushroom-caps, peeled 
and sauted in a little hot butter five minutes, may be pushed 
into the cavity. Thus cooked the mushrooms will flavor 
the birds and be in turn flavored by them. 

When the fowl or small birds are to be stuffed, fill the 
body with materials of such kind as is desired; put in a 
little at the slit in the skin of the neck to fill out the place 
left by the removal of the crop, and fold the skin down over 
the back; put in the rest of the stuffing at the cut made in 
drawing the fowl ; push the cushion of the "tail, after removing 
the oil-bag, into the same opening and sew securely. 

TRUSSING POULTRY AND BIRDS FOR ROASTING 

Steel skewers are quite generally used for trussing, but 
in most cases it is quite as easy and preferable to use the 
trussing-needle, which is similar to a long, large, packing- 
needle, except that it has a three-sided point. Turn the 
wings in, so that the three joints of each will form triangles on 
the back of the fowl, the tips being pushed over the first joint 
and meeting on the skin of the neck where it was turned over 
the back. Thread the trussing-needle with white cotton twine ; 
press it through the middle joint of the wing, then over the 
first joint, taking up a stitch through the skin of the neck, 
folded over, and the back, then out through the second joint 
of the second wing. The needle may now be returned in the 
same way to the first side and tied there, or it may be returned 
through the thighs and body at the bend of the thigh 
joint. Now press the legs down and close to the body; 
push the needle through the leg and body to the other 



I70 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

side, return through the flesh and body, or over the back- 
bone and through the flesh of the second leg; draw tightly 
and tie. When sending the^needle back to the first side, both 
at the side of the wing and the leg, make a stitch nearly three- 
eighths of an inch in length; when the bird is roasted cut 
this stitch and then draw out the threads by the knots made 
in tying. Truss small birds in the same fashion, the feet 
and legs, nicely cleaned, may be retained and in trussing are 
left standing in an upright position. 

TRUSSING POULTRY FOR BOILING OR BRAISING 

Singe, clean, remove the sinews and prepare otherwise as 
for roasting; truss the wings also as for roasting. Then with 
a sharp knife cut the skin round the leg half an inch above the 
joint. At the opening made for drawing the fowl insert the 
finger and pass between the flesh of the second joint and the 
skin so as to separate them completely. Now draw the 
loosened skin down over the ends of the bones and push the 
bones upwards into the interior, until the tops of the legs are ' 
in the usual position for trussing, the skin being drawn down 
smoothly. Truss as usual, letting the ends of the drumsticks 
rest just within the pelvis. Bend the rump forwards into the 
interior of the body, and draw the skin downwards so as to 
close the opening through which the bird was drawn. The 
feet, nicely cleaned, may be inserted in the place left vacant 
by the drumsticks. 

FILLETING POULTRY AND BIRDS 

A "fillet*' is usually spoken of as a thin slice of flesh freed 
from skin and bone. When this term is applied to fowl, 
though it may have this signification, the whole breast of 
the fowl, removed in two pieces and separated lengthwise 
into four cutlet-shaped pieces, is usually meant. - Each side 
of the breast of a fowl may be divided naturally, as it were, 
into two fillets. The two outer or upper portions are called 
the large fillets and the two smaller, mignon fillets. To 
fillet a fowl, slit the skin along the ridge of the breast-bone 
up to the neck, turn the skin back and press the knife-blade 



ROASTING POULTRY AND BIRDS 171 

along this ridge close to the "wish-bone,'* then lift up the 
flesh from the breast, ribs, and base of the wing, keeping close 
to the bone; repeat on the other side, and the flesh will be 
removed in two oval pieces thicker at one end. 

Separate each side into large and small fillets; remove the 
outer membrane from the large fillets and the tendon running 
the entire length of each small fillet. The membrane and 
tendons shrink in cooking and injure the shape of the fillets. 
Before cooking the fillets are neatly trimmed and often gar- 
nished with slices of truffle, or smoked beef-tongue. Fillets 
are also cut from each breast in lengthwise slices; four or 
five can be cut from each side of the chicken. When they 
are to be thus cut, the meat needs to be removed with care, to 
avoid separating the mignon from the large fillet. 

ROASTING POULTRY AND BIRDS 

When poultry, birds, etc. have been cleaned and trussed 
ready for cooking, cover the breast with thin slices of salt 
pork, or bacon, scored lightly; fasten these in place with 
skewers or strings and set on a rack in a baking-pan, a little 
larger than the object. The rack should be smaller than the 
pan, to admit of free use of a spoon in basting. The **heat 
indicator " should point to the centre of the dial. If necessary 
to avoid burning, let the pan rest on a grate. Turn the object 
often that it may be seared over uniformly. It will take 
from fifteen to thirty minutes to sear over a turkey, and other 
objects accordingly. When this is accomplished, close dam- 
per, add a little hot water and dripping to the pan and reduce 
the temperature as soon as possible to that of ordinary baking. 
Baste every ten minutes, dredging with flour after each bast- 
ing. When the joints separate easily, the cooking is com- 
pleted. (It will take three hours to roast a ten-pound tur- 
key.) Just before this condition is reached, remove the 
pork from the breast, baste with a little butter melted in hot 
water and return to the oven for the final browning; baste 
several times, or until the desired color is attained. 



172 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BREAD STUFFING FOR CHICKENS AND TURKEYS 

2 cups of soft breadcrumbs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 

1-2 a cup of butter, melted in 1-2 a teaspoonful of powdered 
1-3 a cup of hot milk or water. sweet herbs or spiced poultry 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. seasoning. 

I beaten egg. 

m 

Mix the ingredients together thoroughly. The bread 
should be twenty-four hours old and taken from the centre of 
the loaf. Exact quantities of seasoning are given, but this 
is a matter of individual taste. At least twice the amount of 
ingredients given in the recipe will be needed for a nine or 
ten-pound turkey. The egg may be omitted if the dressing 
is to be eaten hot; a cold dressing will slice better if the egg be 
used. Cracker-crumbs give a drier stuffing. 

OYSTER STUFFING 

To a highly seasoned bread-stufiing add an equal bulk of 
whole oysters. Or fill the fowl with oysters dipped in cracker- 
crumbs, then in melted butter and again in crumbs. As long 
cooking detracts from the goodness of oysters, the fowl may 
be roasted without stuffing and served with scalloped oysters. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING 

If desired 
I quart of blanched chestnuts. i pint of fine chopped chicken or 
1-4 a cup of butter. veal, or 

I teaspoonful of salt. i pint of bread crumbs moistened 

Pepper. with 1-4 a cup ot butter. 

Additional seasonings, as onion or lemon juice and chopped parsley. 

Blanch the chestnuts (see page 34), then cook until tender 
in boiling salted water, drain and pass through a ricer. Add 
the seasonings and mix with the veal ; moisten with hot cream 
or stock, if a moist dressing is preferred. 

POTATO STUFFING 

Mix together two cups of mashed potato, one cup of soft 
breadcrumbs and from one-fourth to one-half a cup of butter; 



/i 



GIBLET SAUCE 173 

season to taste with salt, pepper, sage, summer-savory, or 
poultry-seasoning as wished : add a beaten egg for a dressing 
to slice smoothly. 

TURKISH STUPPINQ 

I cup of rice. 2 ounces of almonds. 

I dozen French chestnuts. 1-4 a teaspoonful, each, of salt, 

1-4 a pound of well- washed currants paprika and ground cin- 
1-2 a cup of butter. namon. 

Wash the rice and cook until half-done in boiling salted 
water; drain and add the other ingredients, the chestnuts 
cooked and cut in small pieces, the almonds blanched and 
chopped. Use as any stuffing. 

BREAD STUFFING (QREEN) 

6 ounces of soft bread. 1-4 a teaspoonful of spiced pepper. 

I lemon rind, grated. 1-3 a cup of melted butter or 

I tablespoonful of green thyme, 1-4 a pound of beef suet, chopped. 

chopped. I egg. 

I tablespoonful of marjoram, 2 tablespoonfuls of parsley, 

chop|>ed. chopped. 

Mix as usual, use the suet only in a dressing to be served 
hot. If green herbs are not at hand, use the dried herbs for 
flavor and tint the dressing green with the pulp of cooked 
spinach pressed through a cloth. 

TURKEY STUPPINQ (ST. JAMES) 

Chop together the liver of the turkey and one small onion ; 
stir these in a saucepan over the fire, but do not brown, about 
ten minutes, then mix the contents into a pound of sausage- 
meat. When thoroughly mixed, add about two dozen of 
whole chestnuts. The chestnuts should be shelled, blanched, 
and cooked until tender in boiling salted water. 

QIBLET SAUCE 

Pour off the fat from the pan in which the fowl was cooked ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour to the pan and let brown, 
stirring constantly; add slowly one cup of the water, now 



L 



174 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

• 

cool, in which the giblets were cooked, let boil, then simmer 
about ten minutes, stirring occasionally; add more liquid, 
if the sauce becomes too thick, from the browned flou.' in the 
pan used in dredging the fowl; season as needed and strain 
over the giblets chopped rather coarse. 

YOUNG DOMESTIC GOOSE, ROASTED 

The goose should be considerably less than a year old, a 
"green" goose, four months old, is considered the choicest. 
Such a goose is usually roasted without stuffing. If it be 
bought in the open market, it will probably need to be thor- 
oughly scrubbed on the outside ; many reliable authorities advo- 
cate the use of soap to facilitate the cleansing process. Rinse 
outside and in. Rub the inside with an onion cut in halves, 
then season with powdered sage, salt, and pepper. (The 
onion and sage may be omitted.) Put the goose, after truss- 
ing neatly, on the rack in the pan and cook about an hour; 
then pour off the fat from the pan and dredge the goose with 
flour; season, also, with salt and pepper and lay slices of salt- 
pork over the breast. When the flour is browned, baste often 
with hot water, dredging with flour after each basting. If 
the goose be not too fat, the dripping in the pan may be used 
for basting; but usually boiling salted water is better. Cook 
until the joints separate easily, from one hour and a half to 
three hours. Serve with a carefully prepared dish of apple- 
sauce. The apples should be stewed very quickly to keep 
them white, and but little sugar should be added. 

A goose about one year old should be steamed, or braised 
until nearly tender and then dredged with flour and browned 
in the oven. 

POTATO AND WALNUT STUFFING FOR ROAST GOOSB 

2 cups of hot mashed potato. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I teaspoonful of onion juice or 4 tablcspoonfuls of thick cream. 

grated onion. i tablespoonful of butter. 

1-2 a cup of sliced walnut meats. Yolks of two eggs. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. i teaspoonful of sweet herbs if <ie- 

sired. 



vSTUFFING FOR GEESE, DUCKS AND PORK 175 



PRUNE STUFFING FOR ROAST GOOSE 

1-4 a pound of prunes. i dozen large chestnuts. 

I cup of rice. I - 2 a cup of melted butter. 

Salt, paprika and cinnamon. 

Soak the prunes over night in cold water; drain, cover with 
water and cook until nearly tender. Blanch one cup of rice 
(see page 30) ; add the prune juice and water to make about 
three cups in all, also salt as needed, and in this cook the rice 
until nearly tender and the liquid is absorbed; then add the 
prunes, stoned and cut in quarters, the chestnuts, blanched 
and cut in pieces, the butter with salt, paprika and cinnamon 
as desired. Mix thoroughly and handle as any stuffing. 
This may be used for turkeys. 

DOMESTIC DUCKS, ROASTED 

Domestic geese and ducks are trussed very much as tur- 
keys and roasted with or without stuffing; a well-cleaned 
head of celery may be thrust inside to create moisture and 
give flavor, though this is more practised with wild ducks. 
Roast in a hotter oven, after the outside is seared, than for 
fowl. Cook from half to a whole hour, or until the joints 
separate easily. Baste every ten minutes. Save upon the 
breast there is but little flesh on ducks. 

STUFFING FOR ROAST DUCKS 

Chop the liver fine, and saut^ in one tablespoonful of hot 
butter, with k tablespoonful of chopped onion; mix with four 
ounces of bread (one-fourth a loaf), one-fourth a cup of 
butter, melted in one-fourth a cup of hot water ; add one tattle- 
spoonful of parsley, chopped fine, and the beaten yolk of an 

STUFFING FOR DUCKS, GEESE AND PORK 

Parboil three small, mild-flavoured onions in two waters. 
Then boil until tender. In the meantime, scald eight or ten 
sage leaves in hot water, allowing them to stand five minutes. 
Dry thoroughly, and chop with the onions until the mixture 
is very fine ; add one cup and a quarter of fine breadcrumbs 



176 PRACTICAl COOKING AND SERVING 

(five ounces), one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of paprika (or 
spiced pepper) and salt. When well mixed, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and bind together with an egg, well beaten. 

BONED TURKEY, OR FOWL ROASTED 

If the age of the turkey or fowl be doubtful, the meat of 
the drumsticks may be passed through a meat-chopper with 
the pork and veal given in the recipe for sausage forcemeat. . 
Wipe the boned fowl with a damp cloth both inside and out- 
side and turn the legs and wings skin side out, put in place 
any bits of meat loosened in boning; fill the legs and wings 
with forcemeat, then sew up the slit in the skin at the back 
and fill the body full, as the forcemeat will shrink in cooking; 
truss or skewer the legs and wings in place, giving the object 
a natural shape. Lard the breast and legs, if desired, or 
fasten strips of pork over them, then roast as any fowl, basting 
often ; two and one-half to four hours will be required, as the 
pork as well as the fowl needs thorough cooking. The heat- 
indicator should never point beyond the centre of dial after 
the initial searing over is accomplished. Serve with giblet- 
sauce. 

SAUSAGE FORCEMEAT FOR STUFFING BONED FOWL 

Pass two pounds of fresh pork through a meat-chopper, sea- 
son with a teaspoonful and a half of salt, half a teaspoonful of 
black pepper and a teaspoonful of crushed and sifted sage; 
add one cup of fresh-made breadcrumbs, the liver of the tur- 
key, chopped fine, and stock to moisten; mix and use. This 
may be used with or without an equal quantity of veal, or the 
meat of a chicken seasoned accordingly. 

GALANTINE OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY, BRAISED 

Spread out the turkey or fowl, boned according to direc- 
tions for a galantine, skin side down, push the legs and wings 
inside and trim where needed to secure a rectangular shape. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper, onion juice, and fine-chopped 
parsley. Dispose lengthwise upon this cubical strips of cold, 
cooked tongue and large lardoons of cold, cooked salt- pork. 



WILD DUCK TRUSSED FOR ROASTING. (See pwje iSj.) 



CHICKEN SAUTE A 



GALANTINE OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY 177 

Fill the space between with raw chicken, or veal, scraped from 
the fibres, pounded in a mortar and seasoned with salt, pepper, 
chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley, and thyme moistened 
with stock, or milk; then, commencing at one end, roll up 
very tightly like a jelly-roll and sew through the skin securely. 
To be served moulded in jelly, rub the outside with the cut 
side of a lemon to keep it white. After the roll has been tied 
or sewed in shape, wrap in a piece of cheesecloth; tie at the 
ends, also at one or two other places. Put the bones and 
trimmings of the fowl, a knuckle of veal, and half a cup of fine- 
cut vegetables in a large casserole or stewpan, cover with 
cold water, and when the boiling point is reached, put the 
galantine on top of the bones and after boiling a few moments 
let simmer four to six hours. Let partly cool in the kettle, 
then unroll the cloth, which will be loose and wrinkled, and 
make it firm and smooth ; let the galantine cool under a weight. 
Remove the cloth and wipe off the fat with a cloth wrung 
out of hot water. It may now be finished in one of several 
ways: moulded in aspic- jelly ; glazed; covered with chaudfroid 
sauce and decorated ; or brushed over with beaten yolk of egg, 
sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs and browned in the oven 
(see illustration, page 176). To glaze, set the dish containing 
the glaze (see page 234) in a vessel of hot water, and when 
melted apply the glaze with a brush. If it is to be covered 
with chaudfroid sauce (see page 231) have the galantine 
thoroughly chilled, then fill any hollow places with chaudfroid 
sauce, and when firm pour sauce over the whole ; when nearly 
firm again, decorate with truffles, cooked white of egg, or 
sifted yolk of egg. When these are "set," brush over with 
liquid aspic jelly. Garnish the dish with blocks and triangles 
of aspic jelly, the blocks hollowed out a little to hold stuffed 
olives or pim-olas. A galantine may be moulded in aspic jelly 
(see pages 273 and 275). Use the stock in which the galantine 
was cooked for the aspic jelly. The galantine in the illus- 
tration (see page 176) when cold was brushed over with 
beaten yolk of egg, sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs and 
browned in the oven. An imboned fowl, or turkey, trussed 
as for roasting, but without stuffing, may be braised in the 



178 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

same manner as the galantine. A galantine may be made 
of a boned breast of veal, or lamb, or of a boned fish. Haddock 
with halibut forcemeat is particularly good with a green 
salad. Salmon may be introduced for color. 

BROILED CHICKEN WITH SWEET POTATOES 

Clean and draw a young chicken following the directions 
given on page i66, wipe carefully, brush over the inner side 
with oil or melted butter, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon, 
add sliced onions and bits of parsley, let stand an hour or 
more, then broil in a well-oiled broiler very slowly twenty 
minutes, or until the thickest part of the flesh seems cooked. 
Turn the chicken frequently; the skin browns very quickly 
and the cooking is principally done on the flesh side; baste 
frequently with the marinade. Remove to a hot platter, 
spread with two tablespoonfuls of creamed butter, to which 
a dash of paprika and a teaspoonful of fine-chopped cress 
has been added, adding also a few grains of salt. To shorten 
the time of cooking over the coals, and thus lessening the 
danger of burning, put the chicken in the broiler over a drip- 
ping-pan in a hot oven, basting frequently, and when nearly 
cooked brown over the coals. In the South a strip of bacon 
would be skewered upon each side of the breast. Have ready 
two sweet-potatoes, parboiled and cut in thin slices lengthwise, 
fasten the slices of each potato together at one end with a 
skewer, then spread them like a fan, brush over with butter, 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake in a hot oven,- 
basting occasionally with melted butter. 

CHICKEN SAUTE NO. z 

Disjoint a full-grown chicken. Marinate the pieces, i.e., 
pour over them three or four tablespoonfuls of oil, — dust 
with salt and pepper, strew with an onion sliced in rings, and 
add the juice of a lemon. Let stand several hours, or a day. 
Half an hour before serving cut a slice of salt-pork in hits 
and try out the fat ; remove the onions from the chicken and 
wipe the pieces on a cloth; dip them in milk and flour them 
well; then sautd in the hot fat until a golden brown on all 
sides. Serve piled on a napkin, with bread-sauce in a boat. 



CREOLE CHICKEN 179 



CHICKEN SAUTE, WITH COLBERT SAUCE 

Truss a chicken as for roasting, using a trussing-needle and 
twine rather than skewers. Cook in boiling water, or stock, 
six or eight minutes; drain, split through the back lengthwise, 
and place beneath a weight without breaking the bones. 
When cold brush over with beaten egg, dust with salt and 
pepper, and cover with breadcrumbs. In a large saut6-pan 
heat some clarified butter, or salt-pork fat, and in it sautd 
the chicken slowly to a delicate brown. Then put into the 
oven and cook about an hour longer, according to age, bast- 
ing every ten minutes. Drain and serve with Colbert sauce, 
see page 236. 

CHICKEN SAUTE WITH CAULIFLOWER 

Cut the chicken into ten pieces, and saut^ as No. i . To serve, 
place the drumsticks on a large chop-dish with small ends 
together and the other ends turned to the right and left; 
beyond these place the two body pieces with the second joints 
resting upon them. Dispose the breast in an upright position 
between the drumsticks with the ** merry thought" resting 
against the second joints; above the joints, the wings and 
the pinions at the ends of the two body pieces. If there are 
two chickens, repeat the arrangement on the other side. Sep- 
arate a hot boiled cauliflower into flowerets and arrange about 
the chicken. Pour a cream-sauce over the whole, or serve 
the sauce apart. A fowl a year old should be parboiled before 
sautding. 

CREOLE CHICKEN 

Joint a young fowl; season with salt and pepper and saut^ 
to a golden brown in hot salt-pork fat or butter, together with 
two onions sliced thin. When all are well browned, remove 
the fowl and cook one- fourth a cup of flour in the fat; then 
add one cup, each, of white stock and tomato pulp and in this 
simmer the fowl until tender, adding more stock if needed. 
Arrange the joints in a circle upon the serving-dish. To the 
sauce add a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar and other 



i8o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

seasonings as required, strain and reheat in it one-fourth a 
pound of macaroni, cooked and blanched. With this fill in 
the centre of the circle. Garnish with celery leaves or parsley. 

CASSEROLE OF CHICKEN 

Disjoint a young chicken. Heat three tablespoonfuls of 
butter in a, casserole and saut^ in it the chicken and a small 
onion and half a carrot, both cut in slices. Add a bay leaf, 
the chicken, and one cup and a half of white-stock; cover 
closely and let cook three-fourths an hour, or until nearly 
tender. Add, a dozen potato-balls, cut with French cutter 
and browned; half a dozen mushroom caps, peeled and sauted 
in butter; one-third a cup of sherry wine, and a piece of bay 
leaf. Season with salt and pepper, let cook ten minutes, 
remove the fat and serve in the casserole. A strip of brown 
paper, or cotton cloth is often spread with flour-paste and 
pressed over the joining of the cover and dish to keep in the 
flavor while cooking. Pigeons, birds, partridges, etc. are 
cooked in the same manner. Small button-onions after 
being parboiled are often added. 

The chicken and vegetables may be more quickly sautdd 
in a frying-pan and then removed to the casserole. Or this 
preliminary sauteing may be omitted. Fowl, birds, pigeons, 
partridges, Belgian hare, chops, beef, or venison steak may be 
cooked in the same manner. Green peas are often used in place 
of the potato-balls, especially with pigeons or chops. Bacon 
fat is often used in the preliminary sauteing and inch pieces 
of cooked sliced bacon is added with the meat to the cas- 
serole. Fowl and hare are cut in joints, pigeons and part- 
ridges are halved, and birds left whole. 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN 

Separate a chicken weighing about three pounds and a 
half into pieces at the joints, and wipe carefully with a damp 
cloth, washing any pieces that require it ; put into a saucepan 
with a quart of cold water, an onion with a clove pressed 
into it, a kitchen bouquet and half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Bring the water quickly to the boiling point, let boil ten 



CHICKEN A LA BONNE-FEMME i8i 

minutes, skim off the coagulated juices that rise to the top, 
lest they settle upon the chicken and cause it to look unsightly, 
then move to a cooler part of the range and let simmer until 
the chicken is tender. Drain the chicken from the broth. 
Melt one-third a cup of butter, add one-third a cup of flour, 
and salt and pepper as needed, and when blended add the 
chicken broth gradually, first straining out the vegetables; 
let simmer fifteen minutes ; beat two tablespoonf uls of butter 
to a cream, then beat in the yolks of four eggs, one at a time, 
dilute with a little of the hot sauce, return the mixture to the 
saucepan, put in the pieces of chicken and let heat over hot 
water. Arrange the pieces of chicken on the serving-dish as 
in "Chicken Sautd with Cauliflower" and pour over the sauce. 
A dozen small mushrooms, prepared in the usual manner, 
(see page 319) and added with the chicken to the sauce, are 
an improvement to this dish. Garnish the edge of the dish 
with toast-points. 

STEWED CHICKEN WITH ASPARAGUS 

Stew a fowl, cut in joints, and season when half cookea. 
When tender keep hot while a bunch of asparagus is cooked 
in the broth. Remove the asparagus to a slice of toast. 
Thicken the liquid with flour, let simmer ten minutes, then 
stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs with a cup of cream ; add 
seasoning, if needed, and a tablespoonf ul of lemon juice, and 
dispose the fowl about the asparagus. Pour the sauce over 
the asparagus and fowl. Garnish with toast-points and 
asparagus tips. 

CHICKEN A LA BONNE-FEMME 

Prepare a chicken a^ for a fricassee ; put half a cup of butter 
into a stewpan, add a sliced onion and carrot sliced, and saut6 
five minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon ; put in the pieces 
of chicken dusted with salt and pepper and saut6 five minutes ; 
add half a cup of flour and stir until blended, then add three 
cups of white-broth or water and enough tomatoes, skin 
removed and broken into pieces, to make a cup; stir until 
boiling, then simmer until tender. Add a dozen mushrooms 



i82 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

prepared as usual and a tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley, 
with additional salt and pepper if needed. 

BOILED CHICKEN WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Prepare and truss the chicken for boiling; rub it over on the 
outside with a lemon cut in halves and cover securely with 
a buttered papex to keep the meat white, cook in the usual 
manner, and serve with three cups of tomato sauce. Use the 
chicken broth in making the sauce. 

STEAMED FOVy^L ON A MOUND OF RICE WITH 

MUSHROOMS 

Truss a fowl for boiling; rub with the cut side of a lemon 
and lay on slices of salt-pork or bacon and steam with an 
onion and two or three stalks of celery until tender — three 
hours or longer. Have ready a mound of boiled rice, sea- 
soned with butter and salt, and dispose the fowl upon this. 
Arrange mushrooms cooked in the usual manner against the 
rice. Serve with the chicken liquor strained, thickened with 
a roux and enriched with two egg yolks, beaten with half a cup 
of cream. 

CURRY OF CHICKEN, BELGIAN HARE, ETC. 

Cut a cleaned chicken or hare into pieces at the joints 
and season with salt, paprika and ginger. Let stand while 
three onions and two sour apples, with a kitchen bouquet, 
are fried in half a cup of butter or dripping to a golden brown ; 
then put in the joints, cover the pan and let saut6 eight or 
ten minutes. Sprinkle in half a grated cocoanut, add the 
milk from the nut (or use a cup of almond milk, see page 34^) 
stirred gradually into three tablespoonfuls of flour, and one of 
curry-powder, two red pepper-pods, cut in shreds; a pint oi 
stock, or hot water, and the juice of a lemon, and let simmer 
one hour. Take up the joints of meat and keep them Viot; 
pass the sauce through a very fine sieve. Form a border of 
boiled rice on a serving-dish and within it dispose the meat 
with the sauce poured over. 



CANVAS-BACK AND RED-HEAD DUCKS 183 



GAME 
CANVAS-BACK AND RED-HEAD DUCKS 

Careftilly draw, pick, and singe the birds; wipe very clean, 
or wash, if preferred, using salted water. In dressing leave 
on thQ head— and the feet, if desired, — ^so that those familiar 
with ducks may know by the shape, etc. of the head what 
kind of a duck is presented. When drawing the birds, cut 
a lengthwise slit over the crop, and, after the wind-pipe and 
all other appendages have been removed and the duck care- 
fully cleaned, pass the head through this opening into the 
inside of the duck, then reach in and pull it through, letting 
emerge at the opening, made in drawing, between the drum- 
sticks. Run a threaded trussing-needle through the leg, 
the neck and out through the second leg, return to the first 
side in the same way, leaving a short stitch on the opposite 
side; tie tightly to keep the head in place. When the duck 
is roasted, cut this stitch and draw out the threads by the 
knot on the other side. Cut off the wings at the second joint. 
If the feet be left on, dip them into scalding water and rub off 
the thin outer layer of skin. Twist the legs out of joint at the 
point where the flesh begins and double them backwards on 
the upper part of the leg. Pass the tail through the vent. 
Authorities differ as to salting wild duck before cooking and 
basting while cooking, but all agree that the oven in which 
they are placed should be very hot. The time required for 
cooking is from eighteen minutes, for very rare, to forty 
minutes, for very well-done birds. Often wild duck are trussed 
in a manner similar to fowl. A bunch of celery is thrust 
inside the body, the neck is cut off close to the breast-bone, 
and the skin is turned over and fastened down on the back 
with a stitch that holds the wings in place. The head, from 
which the eyes have been removed, is placed in the opening 
made in drawing the duck and fastened there by a thread 
passing through the legs and eye-sockets, which is returned 
in the same manner to the first leg and tied. 



1 84 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PIGEONS STEWED IN BROTH 

Clean, singe, and truss the pigeons in the same manner as 
fowls. Cut as many slices of bacon as pigeons into bits; put 
into a saucepan with a sliced onion, brown slightly, then put 
in the pigeons, a sprig, or two of parsley, and a bay leaf; half 
cover with water or light stock and let simmer t ntil tender, 
turning once or twice and adding salt and pepper and more 
liquid if needed. When tender, cut and draw tne threads 
with which the birds were trussed, and dispose the pigeons 
in nests of hot spinach arranged on slices of toast. Garnish 
with stuffed olives. Remove the fat from the broth, thicken 
it with flour smoothed in water, strain and use as a sauce. 

PIGEONS IN A CASSEROLE 

See chicken in casserole, page i8o. 

BROILED SQUABS 

Split the squabs through the back and breast, brush with 
melted butter, or lay a slice of bacon on each half and set into 
a hot oven ten minutes. If not browned enough, finish the 
cooking over clear coals. Serve on slices of toast moistened 
with dripping in the pan. 

GROUSE ROASTED (DARK MEAT) 

Truss as chicken, put a piece of butter inside each bird and 
roast in a hot oven from twenty to thirty minutes, basting 
frequently with melted butter, or fat from salt-pork. When 
about cooked, — dark-meated game is served rare — ^season 
with salt and dredge with flour. Serve on moistened toast, 
spread with the liver cooked, mashed fine and seasoned with 
butter, salt, and pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Serve with apple-sauce. Bread-sauce, or clear gravy may 
be served in a dish apart. If bread-sauce accompany the roast, 
sprinkle the bird with breadcrumbs browned in butter. 

BROILED GROUSE 

Cut the grouse in halves through the breast and back, season 
and dip in oil, or melted butter and then in breadcrumbs, and 



STEWED CHICKEN AND ASPARAGUS. (See i 



PIGEONS STEWED IN BROTH. 



JAPANESE CASSEROLE. 



VENISON 185 

broil in a double-broiler over a moderate fire, turning when 
well done on the flesh side. When done spread with maitre 
d'hotel butter. 

QUAILS ROASTED (WHITE MEAT) 

Truss the quails with the legs standing upward, in other 
respects the same as a chicken. Lard the breast and draw 
two lardoons into each leg. Cover the legs and the feet, when 
these are retained, with salt-pork and bake fifteen to twenty 
minutes basting very often. If the breast be not larded, 
cover with a thin bit of bacon or pork. Serve on moistened 
toast with currant-jelly, or with bread-sauce. Quails are 
often , broiled. 

PARTRIDGE, ROASTED, BROILED AND BOILED (WHITE 

MEAT) 

Truss and roast the same* as a chicken, basting frequently. 
It will take about forty minutes to cook. Serve with bread, 
or Bechamel sauce. Prepare for broiling the same as chicken, 
brush over the inside with oil or melted butter and broil about 
twenty-five minutes on the flesh side, then brown on the skin 
side. The fire needs be moderate, and the broiling may be 
done to advantage in the oven, as partridge need basting very 
often, the meat being dry. Partridge boiled or served in a 
fricassee (white) are very good. 

VENISON 

Cuts of venison correspond to those of mutton. The 
haunch, or leg, and the saddle are roasted. In roasting the 
saddle, the flank may be removed or not. When retained, 
a few stalks of celery may be rolled in each flank ; these are 
then trussed or skewered close to the backbone. Thus 
treated the saddle presents a good appearance, — but the 
flank is much more edible when it is stewed, or made into a 
ragout — and the roast requires longer cooking. To serve, 
cut the meat in slices parallel to the backbone, then turn the 
knife and separate the slices from the bones below. Cut the 
tenderloin beneath in the same way, the roast being reversed 



^ I 



1 86 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

upon the serving-dish for the purpose. Or the tenderloin 
may be cut and put back in place before the roast is sent to the 
table. Serve with currant jelly and an endive, or escarole 
salad. Rings of tart apple cooked in syrup make an attrac- 
tive garnish for roast venison. The haunch is usually soaked 
in a marinade several days before cooking. 

VENISON STEAK AND CUTLETS 

. Venison steak and cutlets are broiled, or panbroiled as beef- 
steak. Being dry, they are usually served with a sauce. 
Currant-jelly and Bemaise sauces are suitable. 

QUAIL ROASTED IN GRAPE LEAVES (PICAYUNE'S 

CREOLE COOK BOOK) 

6 fine quail. The juice of i lemon. 

2 tablespoonsfuls of butter. J5 slices of buttered toast. 

I tablespoonful of water. 1 2 grape leaves. 

Green grape jelly. 

Butter the inside of the singed, cleaned, and wiped quail 
and sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, rub lightly on the 
outside with butter, then truss and wrap the birds in fresh 
grape leaves; set on the rack in a baking-pan, put the butter 
in the pan and roast the birds from twenty to thirty minutes. 
Have ready the slices of buttered toast, add the butter, water, 
and lemon juice to the gravy in the pan, let cook three or 
four minutes, strain and set on the fire two minutes longer. 
then pour over the breasts of the birds. "The grape leaves 
impart a very peculiar and grateful flavor to the quail." 
Serve the jelly with the quail. 

BELGIAN HARE 

Belgian hare are served roasted, braised in stews and en 
casserole. They are also particularly good, separated into 
joints and made into a cUrry, or cooked as chicken k la Maty- 
land. If the hare be stuffed (bread, or green herb stuffing) 
longer roasting is required. For roasting, the head may be 
retained and the legs cut off at the first joint, or the head may 



BELGIAN HARE EN CASSEROLE 187 

be removed. Cut the sinews beneath the legs, truss, or 
skewer the hind legs towards the head, and bring the fore-legs 
backwards towards the hind ones, holding them in position 
with a skewer, or trussing-needle passed through the legs and 
body. Brush over the outside with bacon fat or dripping, 
cover the back with slices of slitted bacon (see Veal Loaf, 
page 150) tying them in place, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; roast about half an hour, basting every five minutes. 
When done remove the skewers or strings and garnish with 
watercress alone, or with a slice or two of tomato. Serve 
with a thick brown-sauce, diluted with two tablespoonfuls of 
port wine and one tablespoonful of red-currant jelly to each 
cup of sauce. Add also the blanched liver cut in slices. The 
fillets and tops of the legs may be larded; in this case cover 
the larding with buttered paper until the last five minutes 
of cooking, then remove to crisp the lardoons. Green goose- 
berry-sauce may be served apart in the place of the brown 
sauce. 

BELGIAN HARE EN CASSEROLE 

Separate the dressed hare into pieces at the joints; season 

with paprika and salt and saut^ in one-fourth a cup of butter 

and two or three slices of bacon, cut in small square pieces, 

to a golden brown; put the meat into the casserole with a 

cup of port wine, or claret, and put on the cover. Let stand 

in the oven about half an hour, then add a pint of stock, hot 

water, or thickened sauce, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, half 

a sweet red-pepper pod, and a kitchen bouquet; spread a 

paper or cloth covered with paste over the joining of lid and 

cover and cook in a very moderate oven about three hours. 

Remove the bouquet before serving. Two dozen blanched 

button-onions, or sauted mushrooms may be added with the 

stock. 



CHAPTER VI 

Soups and Soup Making* 

"Muse, sing the man that did to Paris go, 
That he might taste their soups, and mushrooms know. " 

*' French cookery owes its superiority over that of other nations only 
to (the excellence of French) bomllon. " — Alexandre Dumas. 

" Ab nihilo, nihil fit.** 

It is written that the chefs of France in the time of Louis, 
Le Grand Monarque, devised bouillon and consomm^ because 
mastication was considered vulgar. In reality, the French 
use of broth in cookery was occasioned by necessity. For 
France at that time was lacking in oil, butter, and the animal 
fats, used with spices by other nations for the production of 
moist dishes of richness and flavor. The French learned 
many things in cookery from the Italians, but neither the 
ancients nor the Italians had ever made any application of 
the broth of meat in general cookery. 

The origin of soups in their simpler forms dates back to the 
childhood of the world. Tyler, in his "Early History of 
Mankind, " refers repeatedly to flesh cooked by the process of 
"stone-boiling," in the paunch or hide of the slaughtered 
beast; and he says, "For drink they have the broth of the 
meat. " According to the historians, those peoples who cooked 
their food in this way ranked a grade higher in civilization 
than they who simply broiled or roasted their meat over the 
fire, the earliest and simplest form of cookery. When we 
feel that the larger part of a day is too much time to be con- 
sumed in making soup stock, it may be com:^orting to consider 
for a moment the time and labor involved in "stone-boiling," 
Into the hide were put water and the flesh to be cooked, and 

1 88 



SOUPS AND SOUP MAKING 



189 



then the stones, made hot in the fire, were dropped in to re- 
main until they became cool, when others were put in their 
places. 

Soups are classified, first, in accordance with the presence 
or absence of "stock** as a foundation. By stock, in soup- 
making, is meant those juices and soluble portions of meat, 
or fish, together with soluble portions of bone and vegetables, 
which have been extracted by slow cooking and stored for 
future use. This material is more or less solid after it has 
become cold, according to the gelatinous nature of the ingred- 
ients and the proportions of meat, or fish and water it con- 
tains. Bouillon and consomm^ belong to this class of soups. 

Soups, made without stock as a basis, are called soups 
maigre, from a French word meaning lean, or poor. The 
pottage for which Esau sold his birthright was probably a 
soup of this kind, being made of the red lentils of Egypt. 
Many soups of this class, however, are often made with stock 
as a part of the liquid. 

The following outline may serve as a guide to the proper 
understanding of the subject: 



Soups. 



With stock. 



May be made 
without stock 

Fruit. 



Standard Broth. 

Bouillon. 

Consomm6. 

Miscellaneous. 

Unclassified. 

Pur^e. 

Chowder. 
Unclassified. 



Plain Pur^e. 

Bisque. 

Cream. 



Fruit soups are quite generally used on the continent of 
Europe, more particularly in Germany. In this country they 
are used chiefly as an appetizer, or at a luncheon. Beside 
the general names given above, soups receive special names 
from their color: as white, brown, or amber; or from the 
garnishing used, as macaroni, noodle, or Julienne. 



iQo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Soups are thin or thick according to the absence or presence 
of material that gives body, or consistence to the liquid. 
This material is either roux (see page 22), blonde or brown, 
according to the color of the soup, meuniere, i.e., flour, corn- 
starch, or arrowroot mixed with water, one tablespoonful of 
the former to four of the latter, egg yolks beaten and diluted 
with cream, or milk, two yolks to half a cup of the liquid, or 
starchy material, as barley, rice, sago, tapioca. 

'Roux 
Meunidre 
Thickenings for Soups. i Egg Yolks 

Grains, 

^ Tapioca, etc. 

Roux may be added to any soups that have not been clarified. 
It is usually added to soups made of the legumes, or potatoes. 
Stir a little of the hot soup gradually into the roux, and when 
smoothly diluted stir the mixture into the soup-kettle; stir 
continuously until the soup boils, then let simmer ten minutes. 
Add the meuniere in the same manner as the roux, but let 
cook at least twenty minutes in the soup. Arrowroot may be 
used in a clear soup — a level tablespoonful to a quart — flour, 
cornstarch, or arrowroot may be used in other soups. To 
beaten yolks of eggs diluted with liquid add gradually a little 
of the hot soup, then stir into the soup, which should not be 
let rise to boiling point, stir until the egg looks cooked, then 
turn at once into the tureen. If the soup boils after the egg 
is cooked, it will present a curdled appearance. Rice, or 
barley is often cooked in a chicken, or mutton soup: sago 
and tapioca may be used in almost any soups, excepting cream 
soups, purees and the like. These may be cooked in a little 
water and added to the soup, or cooked in the stock. 

A clear soup is a most fitting and agreeable prelude to a 
ceremonial dinner. It is a savor to health before any dinner, 
as it is quickly absorbed by the linings of the stomach and 
gently stimulates that organ to take care of the more sub- 
stantial nourishment that is to follow. A cream soup, pur^, 
bisque, or chowder is substantial in itself and may fittingly 
form the chief article of a meal for rich or poor alike. 



MATERIALS USED IN MAKING STOCK 191 



SOUPS WITH STOCK 

As cream soups are a means of utilizing whatever vegetables 
are left over from a previous meal, or day, so many a soup 
made from stock furnishes an opportunity to use up the 
"odds and ends'* of meat and bone that accumulate from 
day to day. Indeed, if we are to get all the nutriment pos- 
sible from our various food-supplies, it is absolutely necessary 
to take a part of our food in the form of soup. 

Now, by this we do not wish to imply that the stock-pot, 
or the soup-kettle should be steaming over the fire all the 
time. Except on some of the hottest summer days, the 
various odds and ends may be kept on hand for several days, 
until a sufficient amount is collected, then they may be cooked 
at once, and the liquor strained and set aside. On no account 
keep the kettle over the fire day after day. Soups in per- 
fection cannot be drawn from such a source. 

MATERIALS USED IN MAKING STOCK 

Every kind of meat, as beef, mutton, lamb, veal, poultry, 
game, etc., may be used in stock-making, either alone or in 
combination. 

In large families, where roasts of beef, mutton, or poultry 
are eaten weekly, but little fresh meat need be purchased 
for soups, unless it be for some formal occasion, when a hand- 
some clear soup is desired. Yet remember that ** ab nihilo, 
nihil fiV* 

As the individual or distinctive flavor of different kinds 
of meat is more highly developed in a cooked than in an un- 
cooked state, and as browned meats give a corresponding 
color to soup, it is well, particularly in making brown stock, 
to brown a portion of the meat used in making stock for clear 
soups. 

A small quantity of fat is a wholesome addition to any soup. 
A part of this will be absorbed by the stock during the cooking 
process, and the part that is not thus absorbed will rise to 
the top, forming a solid cake, which may be removed when 
the stock is cold. 



192 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

When uncooked meats are used for a soup, the marrow 
found in the shin of the hind-quarter is the best form of fat 
that can be obtained. In soups made from remnants, the 
browned fat of roasts gives a good flavor, and occasionally 
a bit of ham or bacon may be used ; only two or three ounces, 
however, for a large dish of soup, as in a perfectly flavored 
soup no one savor should predominate. 

Expensive cuts of beef are not so well adapted to soup- 
making as the cheaper pieces. The blood flows more freely 
to those parts of the creature that are in constant use, and, 
though this use toughens the muscles, the life-giving juices 
are there, and long, slow cooking will remove them. Select 
then, for stock, the under part of the round, the vein, neck, 
flank, cheek, and shin, tough and inexpensive pieces, but full 
of nutriment. 

In making fish stock for general use in fish soups or entries, 
select the white-blooded varieties. The head and trimmings 
are valuable, because they contain gelatinous material, often 
desirable, and also considerable flesh, but, -aside from this, 
solid pieces of fish containing the albuminous juices are needed. 
Salmon, lobster, and other red-blooded fish need be used with 
discretion. 

As a general rule, that which is extracted from bones is the 
least desirable element that enters into a soup; particularly 
is this the case with beef bones, and if there be no bits of meat 
upon the bones, there would seem to h't little reason for includ- 
ing them in soup-making. If bone Le used and the liquid be 
cooked at a high temperature, lime is dissolved into the soup, 
giving it a cloudy appearance. The bones of chicken and 
veal are rich in delicate gelatine, and this is often desirable 
to give body to a soup. Gelatine is also a preservative agent, 
as stock that jellies, air being excluded, keeps much better 
than stock in a liquid form. 

THE SOUP-KETTLE 

In making stock all the nutriment and flavors possible 
are to be drawn out from the various ingredients and retained 
in the stock; but when once the volatile odors of fowl, vege- 



TEMPERATURE AND TIME OP COOKING 193 

table and herb have escaped from the saucepan and permeated 
the house, we cannot bring them back again to the soup- 
plate and this appetizing aroma is lost. So often nothing 
is left for serving but a thin, watery liquid, in appearance gray 
and cloudy from the lime extracted from the bones. First of 
all, then, let the soup-kettle be furnished with a tight- fitting 
cover. And, moveover, let this utensil be of agate, or granite- 
ware and as nearly free from blemishes as possible. For 
acid, found in all flesh, attacks unprotected iron, and thus 
gives an inky colour to the soup. Scrupulous cleanliness is 
just as essential to the making of a fine-flavored soup as in 
the making of a fine cup of coffee. Both the coffee-pot and 
the soup-kettle must be scoured frequently and well aired 
after each use. 

TEMPERATURE AND TIME OF COOKING 

The first step in soup-making consists in drawing out the 
soluble juices and flavoring constituents into the water; 
the second step is in keeping that which has been drawn out 
in a wholesome and agreeable condition. Since cold water is 
b^t fitted to extract juices, cut the meat, after wiping the 
outside with a damp cloth, into small bits, in order that as 
much surface as possible may be brought into contact with 
the water. Break or saw the bones into small pieces, put 
into the kettle and add. cold water as it is required. After 
the meat has stood half an hour, or until the water is well 
colored, place the kettle over the fire and gradually heat the 
contents to the boiling pomt and skim; then, in accordance 
with what has been said before in regard to the coagulation 
I of albumen and other juices of flesh at a temperature below 
I 180° Fahr. and the loss of delicacy and digestibility when 
cooked at higher temperature, let the contents of soup-kettle 
gently simmer, or bubble slowly and constantly five or six 
hours. 

A celebrated cook once said: "Let the contents of the 
 soup-digester boil but once and the soup is ruined. '* To 
isome this may seem an extravagant statement; but it loses 
I all such significance, when one stops to consider the delicate 



194 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

flavor, the bright sparkle, and rich clearness of a consoinin6, 
or an amber soup that has been cooked at a low temperature, 
while all are familiar with the strong odor and the cloudy 
appearance of a soup that has been cooked at a temperature 
such that the lid of the kettle, when removed, was found 
covered with particles of coagulated albumen, deposited 
there by the furiously ** galloping" liquid. 

Cook, then, meat at a low temperature ; cook until it is in 
rags and colorless, the juice and flavor having been with- 
drawn. About one hour and a half before this stage is reached 
add the vegetables and seasonings. Strain off the liquor 
from the bones, meat, and vegetables, pressing out every 
drop of juice and set aside where it will cool quickly. 

If the fowl, or any portion of the meat used in soup-making, 
is to be served apart, wait until the contents of the kettle 
are heated to about 170° Fahr., then put in that which you 
wish to serve apart from the soup, and allow it to cook at 
this low temperature until it becomes tender, then remove at 
once. 

JELLYING STOCK 

Stock, whether made from fresh meat, or from odds and 
ends, solidifies when it becomes cold, if it contains a goodly 
amount of gelatine. This constituent of meat, in the flesh, 
tendons and bones of young animals, is more soluble than it is 
in those of more mature age. It is found largely in the bones 
and tendons, but there is also a considerable quantity in the 
connective tissues of the lean meat. It takes, moreover, a 
higher degree of heat to extract gelatine from meat than some 
other constituents. A bouillon, therefore, made entirely of 
lean meat, will jelly or become solid, if there be taken a pound 
of meat to a pint of water and the juices be extracted at a 
temperature between 180° and 200^ Fahr. 

Stock that jellies may be kept longer than that in a liquid 
state, as the air does not penetrate it readily. This is the 
case, more especially, if the stock be strained into bowls of a 
size convenient for future use and the covering of fat be kept 
intact. The addition of vegetables is not desirable, if the 



KINDS OF SOUP-STOCK 195 

stock is to be kept, for the juices of vegetables! sour more 
quickly than the juices of meat. 

PROPORTIONS OF VARIOUS INGREDIENTS 

In what is known as standard broth (bouillon) of beef, 
mutton, or fowl, etc., each pint of broth contains the soluble 
part (in simmering water) of one pound of fresh meat, with 
or without bones; this broth needs never be concentrated, 
but it may be diluted. To secure this broth requires not over 
three cups of water to each pound of meat, without bone. 
When bone is used, which takes up at least one- fourth the 
entire weight, one pint of water to each pound of meat and 
bone as sent from the market will allow for evaporation and 
keep the correct proportion. When the broth is finished, 
hot water may be added, if the quantity does not equal the 
standard. Add for each quart of broth one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of sweet herbs and one tablespoonful, 
each, of the vegetables desired, a sprig of parsley, a bay leaf, 
three or four pepper-corns, or a blade of mace may also be 
added at discretion. 

When the stock is made from * 'left-overs,'* the amount of 
seasonings should be the same per quart, but the quantity of 
water should be reduced to just enough to cover the ingred- 
ients: 

As the quantity of alkaline and acid salts is larger in the 
blood and juices of uncooked than of cooked flesh, it is well 
to add a small portion of raw, lean meat to stock made from 
the remnants of cooked food. On this account, it is advisable 
to remove the flank-ends of steaks and chops and add them, 
uncooked, to the soup- kettle. 

KINDS OP SOUP-STOCK 

Brown soup-stock is made from dark-colored meats and 
various vegetables. A part of the meat, or fish and vegetables, 
is browned before it is added to the water. White soup 
stock is made from light-colored meats, as veal and chicken; 
no vegetables that give color are used. Onion and celery 
are the vegetables most often used in making white soup- 



196 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

stock. The stock may be thickened, or served without thick- 
ening. In hot weather stock needs to be scalded each dav, 
but in winter it will keep several days. 

CLEARING STOCK 

Sometimes a soup is served that presents a clear, sparkling 
appearance, or stock is moulded into a clear jelly (aspic). 
To secure this condition, the stock is cleared. For this pur- 
pose a substance rich in albumen, as the whites of eggs, also 
the shells to which considerable white adheres, or raw meat, 
chopped fine, are used. In ordinary home cooking, the whites 
and shells of eggs are oftenest used. 

Suppose the stock has been made according to the direc- 
tion given above and is now cold. Remove the fat; if the 
stock has jellied, wring a cloth out of warm water and gently 
wipe over the surface ; the cloth will take up any particles of 
fat remaining upon the jelly. If the stock be liquid, lay a 
piece of tissue-paper upon it, press it lightly upon the liquid 
and the fat will adhere to it. Now very carefully take off 
the top of the stock, leaving the portion that is less clear and 
contains sediment in the bottom of the dish, for some other 
variety of soup. To each quart of stock add the crushed 
shell and the white of one eggy slightly beaten; mix together 
thoroughly and set over the fire to heat, stirring all the time 
until the liquid boils. As the liquid becomes heated, the egg 
coagulates, combining with itself any fine particles floating 
in the stock, these it either brings to the top of the liquid, or 
it sinks with them to the bottom. Let boil vigorously five 
minutes, then add half a cup of cold water and set the sauce- 
pan aside, or on the back of the range for about five minutes. 
Skim carefully, then strain through cheesecloth spread over 
a colander or sieve. Reheat and serve. 

If it be desired to use the stock before it has become thor- 
oughly cold and the fat "set, " with a spoon dip the fat from 
the top, then put a piece of ice wrapped in a cloth into the 
stock, holding it near the top, and the remaining fat will cling 
to the cloth and may be removed with the ice. 



FISH CONSOMME PRINTANIER 197 



VEGETABLE STOCK FOR SOUP MAIGRE 

2 pounds of onions 5 quarts of water. 

(six large onions) 2 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

2 pounds of carrots. 1-2 a red pepper or 

1-2 a head of celery. i teaspoonful of peppercorns. 

3 sprigs of parsley. 4 cloves. 

11-2 cups of dripping or butter, i quart of dried peas or beans. 

Saut^ the vegetables, cut in pieces, in the dripping to a deli- 
cate brown color; add the water, cloves, and the legumes 
that have been soaked over night, parboiled ten minutes, 
rinsed and drained. Let boil once, then simmer until tender. 
Strain, let cool, remove the fat and use as any stock. 

STANDARD BROTH (FISH) 

3 pounds of white fish. 1-2 a bay leaf. 

3 pints of water. 4 sprigs of parsley. 

1 sliced onion. 1-2 a red pepper pod. 
1-2 a sliced carrot. 3 cloves. 

2 stalks of celery. Salt. 

Cut the fish in pieces and add the other ingredients; let 
boil, then skim and simmer about an hour and a half; strain 
and use as any stock. The vegetables may be browned in 
butter, or drippings, thus giving a brown stock. In practice, 
the heads and trimmings of fish with a little solid flesh are 
used for soup-making. The broth may be clarified for con- 
somme, or thicke.ned with a roux and cream added for a cream 
soup, or the flesh may be passed through a sieve and added 
to make a fish purde. Fish soups are garnished with pieces 
of vegetable, or fish quenelles. 

FISH CONSOMME PRINTANIER 

Clarify standard fish broth with white and shells of eggs, 
or chopped fish, strain, reheat, and add as a garnish any early 
spring vegetables left whole, or cut in cubes, or juliennes and 
cooked. Peas, pieces of string-beans, asparagus-tips, carrot, 
or turnip slices are among the vegetables so used 4 



198 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FORMULA FOR THREE PINTS OF STANDARD BROTH 

(beef, veal, chicken, mutton or game) 

4 pounds of meat (one-fourth bone) 1-4 a sweet pepper. 
4 pints of cold water. i 1-2 teaspoonfuls of sweet herbs 

I 1-2 teaspoonfuls of salt. (marjoram, thyme, etc.) 

10 or 12 peppercorns or i sprig of parsley. 

4 cloves. ( carrot. 

I 1-2 tablespoonfuls, each, of "^ onion. 

L celery. 
1-2 a bay leaf. i 1-2 tablespoonfuls of turnip at dis- 

• cretion 

Prepare according to directions previously given: celery- 
seed, or root, may take the place of fresh celery; meat for 
stock needs be very fresh. Soups from broth may be varied 
indefinitely by changes in consistency and garnish, one or both. 

, BROWN SOUP-STOCK 

Brown soup-stock is standard broth made of beef with part 
of the beef and vegetables browned to give color. Saut^ 
the meat in marrow, or drippings (the best marrow is found 
in the hind shin) slowly and carefully, to avoid burning the 
meat. Meantime, let the rest of the meat, cut in small cubes, 
soak in cold water. 

After the sauted meat has been added to the soup-kettle, 
let the frying-pan stand in a warm place, partly filled with 
liquid from the soup-kettle and thus insure melting from the 
pan all the browned material that is to give color to the soup. 
Saut6 the vegetables about an hour and a half before the 
stock is cooked and add to the kettle with the other season- 
ings. Rinse out the pan and add as before to the soup-kettle. 
When cooked, strain and set aside to cool. If a large quajcitity 
of stock be prepared, strain into several dishes, holding the 
quantity needed for a meal, and narrow rather than flat, that 
there may be fat enough to form a covering for each. 

BOUILLON 

This is the same as standard beef-broth, omitting the bone 
from the meat. A cup of canned tomato, or two fresh toma- 



ENGLISH BEEF SOUP 



199 



toes are sometimes added with the vegetables. Bouillon is 
usually, though not always, clarified (see Clearing of Stock, 
page 196). 





CONSOMME 






r carrot. 
1-2 cup, each, of •{ onion. 


3 lbs. of beef from lower part of 


round. 




i celery. 


3 lbs. of knuckle veal. 




I bay leaf. 


Marro <v, if at hand. 




2 sprigs of parsley. 


3 or 4 lbs. of fowl. • 




3 teaspoonfuls of sweet herbs. 


I ounce of lean ham. 




I tablespoonful of salt. 


3 1-2 quarts of water. 




10 peppercorns. 



Saut^ part of the beef and all of the veal, cut in inch cubes 
in the marrow, or drippings (that from the top of the stock- 
kettle preferred) until a delicate amber color; add a quart 
of water and let simmer about an hour or until nearly evap- 
orated, forming a glaze on the bottom of the soup-kettle; 
then add the rest of the meat, the bone, if desired, the ham 
and the water, and heat slowly to the boiling pomt; skim, add 
the fowl and let simmer until the fowl is tender; remove the 
fowl for other use and add the seasonings with the vegetables 
sauted without coloring; let simmer about an hour, then 
strain and set aside to cool. When cold remove the fat, add 
additional seasoning, if desired, and clarify the stock. 

ENGLISH BEEP SOUP 



1-4 a pound of tender beef. 

1-2 an onion in rings. 

2 stalks of celery cut transversely. 

1 cup of boiling water. 

2 tablesi>oonfuls of flour. 

I tablespoonful of tomato catsup. 



I quart of standard beef broth. 
1-4 a cup of cooked carrot. 
1-4 a cup of cooked barley. 
1-2 a tablespoonful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce. 
Salt and pepper. 



Cut the beef in squares and brown with the onions and 
celery in butter, marrow, or drippings ; add the boiling water 
and braise until the meat is tender, then add the flour, mixed 
with water to pour; let cook ten or fifteen minutes; then add 
the hot broth, barley, and carrot, with the catsup, sauce, salt, 
and pepper. 



200 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CHICKEN SOUP 

I quart of standard chicken broth, 1-2 a cup of cream, 

(flavored with onion, celery. Salt and pepper, 

sweet herbs, etc.) Whites of two eggs. 

1 pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuis of fine, quick- 

2 yolks of eggs. cooking tapioca. 

Scald the broth, stir in the tapioca and let cook over hot 
water (double-boiler) until transparent ; ad4 the milk scalded, 
remove from the fire and stir in the beaten yolks diluted with 
the cream; let thicken without boiling, then turn into the 
tureen, adding salt and pepper; arrange on the top the whites 
of the eggs, beaten dry with a few grains of salt, and poached, 
by spoonfuls, in hot water, or milk; or serve in bouillon 
cups with a spoonful of the poached white on the top of each 
cup. 

WHITE ALMOND SOUP 

2 quarts of standard veal broth. 2 ounces of almonds. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 2 tablespoonfuis of com-starcb. 

I cup of cream. 

Cream together the butter and cornstarch and dilute with 
hot stock gradually; let boil five minutes, then stir into the 
rest of the stock; add the hot cream, more seasoning, if needed, 
and the almonds blanched and pounded fine in a mortar. 

OXTAIL SOUP 

2 oxtails. 2 stalks of celery. 
1-4 a cup of drippings. Red pepper. 

1-4 a cup of flour. i small onion. 

4 quarts of standard broth, or com- i cup of carrot, 

mon stock. i cup of turnip. 

Parsley, bay leaf. Salt. 

Worcestershire Sauce. 

Separate the tails at the joints into pieces; saut^ in the 
dripping to a brown color, add the flour and, when blended, 
the stock; let boil once, then simmer until the meat is tender, 
adding the parsley, bay leaf, and piece of red pepper wrapped 



LETTUCE SOUP 201 

in the celery stalks. Saut^ the onion cut in slices, these 
separated into rings, and the carrot and turnips, each, cut into 
balls, or fanciful shapes, in hot dripping, then add water and 
cook until tender. Remove the fat and the bouquet from 
the soup, thicken, if desired, with roux, or cornstarch mixed 
with cold water, add the drained vegetables and salt and 
Worcestershire sauce to taste. 

TOMATO SOUP 

I quart of standard beef broth or Onion juice. . 

I quart of stock made from left Celery salt, 

overs, or water in which mutton Fine-chopped parsley, 

has been cooked. 2 tablespoonfuls cf cornstarch. 

1 quart of tomatoes. Macaroni. 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Salt and pepper. 

Press the tomatoes through a sieve; bring the pulp to a 
boiHng point, add the cornstarch, diluted with cold water to 
pour, the sugar, onion juice, celery-salt, and parsley, if used ; 
let cook ten minutes and add the hot broth, season and serve. 
Garnish with inch-pieces of cooked macaroni, or with egg- 
balls, noodles, chicken quenelles, or yolks of egg poached in 
water just " off the boil. " 

LETTUCE SOUP 

1 large head of lettuce. i teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of sugar. 5 cups of broth or water. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of tarragon vine- Yolks of 2 eggs. 

gar.  1-2 a cup of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Chop the lettuce and saut^ in the butter with the sugar 
and vinegar; add the flour, and, when blended with the butter, 
the broth or water gradually ; when the lettuce is tender, add 
the yolks beaten and diluted with the cream; let thicken 
without boiling. Serve with croutons. 



202 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



TOMATO AND GREEN PEA SOUP (B. COOKING SCHOOL) 

I cup of green peas. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I cup of tomatoes. Salt and pepper. 

1 quart of seasoned stock. 1-2 a cup of cooked peas. 

2 tablespoonfuls of com starch. Crisped crackers. 

Cook the peas and tomatoes until tender in water to cover; 
press through a sieve and add to the stock; when boiling 
dilute the cornstarch with cold liquid to pour and stir into 
the hot soup; let simmer ten minutes; add the butter in bits, 
stirring well; add the salt, pepper, and cooked peas. Serve 
with crisped crackers. 

SOUP OFTEN MADE WITHOUT STOCK 

PUREES 

The word pur6e is used to include cream soups, bisques, and 
plain purees. The latter are thick soups, in which the puree 
predominates and milk or cream is not used as a rule. 
Plain purees are made of legumes, chestnuts, chicken, or 
game. They do not call for a roux or other binding agent, 
though flour and butter cooked together may be used. The 
thickness of the soup comes from the representative ingredient. 
All these soups are very nutritious ; consequently they should 
not be served at dinner as a first course and be followed by 
other and more substantial dishes, unless the soup be pre- 
sented for the same reason that Abigail Adams, the economical 
and thrifty wife of our second President, is said to have served 
the commeal pudding before the roast, i.e., to save the roast. 
They are appropriately served as luncheon soups and are 
particularly good for children and old people. 

PUREE OF CHICKEN 

1-4 a cup of pork lardoons. 21-2 quarts of cold water. 

1-4 a cup of chopped onion 1-2 a pound of white bread. 

1-4 a cup of chopped carrot. Salt. Mace. 

Parsley with thyme and bay leaf. i ounce of blanched almonds. 
I four-pound fowl. 1 pint of milk. 

S ounces of butter. 



SPLIT PEA, LENTIL OR BEAN PUREE 203 

Put the lardoons, onion, carrot, and the parsley, garnished, 
into the soup-kettle, with the fowl above them; add one pint 
of the water and let slowly reduce to a glaze, then add the 
rest of the water; let boil once, then simmer until the chicken 
is tender. Remove the chicken and pound the meat (without 
skin, fat, or bone) with the breadcrumb, moistening with 
the broth as needed. Season with salt and mace and press 
through a pur^e sieve ; reheat without boiling, add one pint of 
almond milk and, when ready to serve, stir in gradually the 
butter. Serve small chicken quenelles made from part of 
the breast in the soup. To make the almond milk, pound the 
freshly blanched almonds in the mortar, adding a little milk 
to moisten, then heat with the milk and press through a nap- 
kin. 

PUREE OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES • 

2 pounds of artichokes. i teaspoonful of salt. 

2 onions. 2 quarts of standard broth. 

1-4 a cup of flour. 3 j'olks of eggs. 

I teaspoonful of sugar. i cup of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Pare the artichokes and cook with the onions until tender; 
then mash and press through a sieve; add. with the water in 
which they were cooked to the broth ; dilute the flour, sugar, 
and salt with a little cold broth and stir into the hot soup and 
let simmer twenty minutes. When ready to serve, add the 
butter in little bits, then the beaten volks diluted with the 
cream. Do not let the soup boil after the addition of the 
eggs. 

SPLIT PEA, LENTIL OR BEAN PUREE 

(dried legumes) 

I pint of dried legumes. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

I onion. Salt and pepper. 

1-2 a head of celery. 1-2 a can of strained tomatoes, or 

A ham bone if at hand. i cup of cream if desired. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



204 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Soak the legumes over night in cold water; wash, drain, 
and simmer in three pints of water, stirring often with a 
wooden spoon and adding more water as evaporation neces- 
sitates. If a ham-bone be used, put on to cook at the same 
time as the legumes. When the vegetables are becoming 
tender, saut^ the onion and celery, cut fine, in a little dripping 
and add to the soup; when all are tender, press through a 
pur^e sieve, reheat and stir in the butter and flour creamed 
together, or if cream or tomato be used, make into a sauce 
with the liquid and then add to the soup. Serve hot with 
croutons. The flour may be omitted, if the settling of the 
pulp be thought unobjectionable. 

POTAGE PARMENTIER (POTATO PUREE) 

1 dozen potatoes. " 3 cloves. 

2 onions. • 2 quarts of veal broth. 

1 head of celery. Salt. Parsley. 
White part of 2 leeks. 3 yolks of eggs. 

4 ounces of butter. i - 2 a cup of cream. 

( I - 2 a cup) 2 ounces of butter. 

Fine chopped chervil. 

Sautd the potatoes, pared and sliced, with the onions, celery 
and leeks, also sliced, in the four ounces of butter ten minutes; 
add the cloves, broth, salt, and parsley and cook until the 
potatoes are tender; then press through a fine sieve. Return 
to the fire, add more broth, if too thick, and let simmer twentv 
minutes, skimming as needed. Just before serving add the 
beaten yolks, diluted with the cream, and the two ounces of 
butter in little bits. Sprinkle over the soup in the tureen a 
little fine-chopped chervil. Serve with croutons. 

BAKED BEAN AND TOMATO PUREE 

1-4 a bay leaf. i tablespoonful of butter. 

2 slices of onion. i tablespoonful of flour. 

2 stalks of celery. Croutons or buttered crackers 

I sprig of parsley. browned. 

I pint of Boston baked beans. F quart of water or light stock, 

I cup of thick tomato puree. Salt and paprika. 



CREAM SOUPS 205 

Sautd the onion, parsley, fine-cut celeiy and bay leaf in two 
tablespoonfuls of drippings; add the baked beans and the 
water, or stock (made from left-overs) and let simmer half 
an hour, then pass through the sieve and reheat. Melt the 
butter; in this cook the flour, add the tomato pur^e and, when 
boiling, season and stir into the bean puf^e. Serve with 
croutons, or browned crackers. 

CHESTNUT PUREE (SOUP) 

Boil sixty blanched chestnuts in a quart of water, or light 
stock, then press while hot through a fine purde sieve; add 
two quarts of broth, stir until the boiling point is reached, 
then simmer an hour; skim and pour the soup into a tureen. 
Serve with croutons of fried bread. 

CREAM SOUPS 

FORMULA FOR CREAM SOUPS 

2 cups of puree and liquid (cauliflower, asparagus, spinach, 
peas, etc.) 

'^1-4 a cup of flour. 
1-4 a cup of butter. 
2 cups of milk or part white stock. 
1-2 a tcaspoonful of salt. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 



2 cups of white sauce 



''1-2 an onion. 



Flavorinjr 



I sprig of parsley. 

I stalk of celer}', or tablespoonful of celery seed. 
^ I sprig of mint (with peas.) 

( Yolks of two eggs. 
Additional nutriment when desired -{ 

L 1-2 a cup of cream. 
Milk and white stock to make of desired consistency. 
Salt and pepper as required. 

Of these soups, cream and bisque consist in the main of a 
simple combination of a thin white sauce with vegetable, 
fish, or meat pulp, thinned to the proper consistency by the 
addition of milk, cream, or white stock. Almost any vege- 
table, fish, chicken, or game may be used in these soups; the 



2o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

vegetables, cut in pieces when it is necessary, with such as are 
used for flavoring, may be sauted, either with or without 
browning, in butter and drippings and then cooked in water 
until tender; or the preliminary saut^ing may be dispensed 
with. When tender, press through a purde sieve, using a 
wooden spoon or pestle. Moisten now and then with the 
liquid in which the vegetable was cooked, to facilitate the 
operation; dilute the meat or fish, cooked and pounded fine, 
with liquid and press through a pur^e sieve. If well-flavored 
stock be not at hand and milk or water is to be used, cook 
a part of an onion, a stalk of celery, or a sprig of parsley with 
the vegetables. A sprig of mint is often cooked with the peas 
that are to be used for a cream of pea soup, and a slice of 
onion, a stalk of celer3% or a handful of mushroom stalks and 
peelings, with the tomatoes for a tomato-soup. 

A handful of spinach, boiled with the lettuce, peas, or 
asparagus to be used in these soups, will help give the green 
tint desirable in a soup made of green vegetables. 

The vegetable pulp and the liquid do not unite, or form a 
''liaison," as the French cooks say, but the pulp settles to 
the bottom of the dish. To remedy this and give the soup a 
smooth, velvety consistency, a starchy material, as tapioca, 
cornstarch, or flour is added. Two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
or half that quantity of cornstarch or arrowroot for each 
quart of soup will suffice, especially if the yolks of the eggs 
are also used. Since the cream soups are in reality a com- 
bination of white-sauce and fish, meat, or vegetable pulp, the 
blending ingredient may be added in either of the three ways 
in which such material is added to a sauce (see Sauces, 
page 220), ist, by cooking the flour and butter or drippings 
to a roiix and then diluting with the cold liquid. 

2nd. Cream the butter and flour together, dilute with a 
little of the hot liquid and, when smooth, stir into the hot 
liquid. 

3d. Mix the flour with a little of the cold liquid and stir 
into the hot liquid. In the two latter methods, the soup 
needs simmer ten minutes after the starchy material is added. 

If milk or cream be added to the pulp of some vegetables. 



CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP 207 

I 

as asparagus, and the mixture be again heated to the boiling 
point, the soup is liable to assume a curdled appearance; 
hence, it is safer to add the hot milk or cream just before the 
soup is sent to the table. 

When stock is used for these soups, nothing is gained by 
cooking the vegetables in the stock; but by so doing much 
is lost in volume and flavor. Cook the vegetables in water, 
and add the stock afterwards. 

CREAM OP SORREL SOUP 

I cup of sorrel. 1-4 a tcaspoonful of pepper. 

1-2 a cup of water. 2 cups of standard broth. 

1-3 a cup of butter. (Veal and chicken together or one 

1-2 an onion. alone.) 

1-3 a cup of flour. i i - 2 cups of cream or milk. 

I teaspoonful of sugar. Yolks of two eggs. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

Boil the sorrel in the water ten minutes, drain and chop 
fine. Cook the onion, sliced, in the butter five minutes with- 
out browning; add the flour and, when smooth, the sorrel, 
sugar, salt, and pepper; when well mixed, add the stock; let 
boil once, then add the cream, scalded, and the yolks beaten 
and diluted with the half-cup of cream. 

CREAM OP CORN SOUP 

Score each row of kernels with a sharp knife and press out 
the piilp; now cook the ears in a little cold water, and add 
this water, well reduced, to the pulp; let simmer ten minutes, 
then pass through the sieve into the sauce ; add milk, or stock, 
salt, and pepper. When fresh com is not at hand, canned 
com or, better still, komlet may be used. The proportions are : 

I pint of com pulp. i slice of onion, 

ipint of white sauce. Salt and pepper. 

CREAM OP MUSHROOM SOUP 

I pint of dried Italian c^pes or Salt and pepper. 

I quart of fresh mushrooms. Milk, cream or white stock. 

1-2 an onion. Yolks of two eggs if desired. 

I pint of white sauce. 



2b8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Saut6 the fresh mushrooms with the onion, sliced, in a 
little butter without browning them. Then pound in a mor- 
tar, pass through the purde sieve, and proceed as usual. If 
cepcs be used, let soak in cold water, add the onion, and let 
simmer until tender. 

CREAM OP LIMA BEANS AND ONIONS 

Boil together one pint of lima beans, — if dry beans be used 
they need be soaked over night, — two onions, and two sprigs 
of parsley. To each pint of pulp and liquid allow a pint of 
white sauce and proceed as usual. A full pint of milk, or 
white stock will also be required. 

OYSTER SOUP 

I quart of oysters. 1-2 an onion. 

I quart of milk. 2 sprigs of parsley. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a tcaspoonful of pepper. 

1-4 a cup of flour. Salt as needed. 

I cup of celery leaves and stalks. 

Pour a cup of cold water oyer the oysters and look them 
over carefully, to remove any bits of shell. Strain the liquor 
through a cheesecloth, then boil and skim; add to this the 
oysters, and let simmer until they look plump and the edges 
curl, then stir them into the sauce made by cooking the flour 
and the butter creamed together in the milk scalded with the 
onion, celery, and parsley before adding the thickening to the 
milk. Part cream gives a much more delicious soup. If 
preferred, the oysters may be chopped, after parboiling, and 
pressed through a sieve. 

BISQUES 

Bisque is a soup of ancient origin, to which there are many 
allusions in old literary works. The old recipes for bisque 
begin with "Wash half a hundred crayfish;" for, in its first 
estate, the basis of a bisque was always crayfish, a small fresh- 
water crustacean resembling the lobster. At the present 
time we have come to use the word in a more general sense, 
applying it to a class of purees generally made of salt-water 



BISQUE OF OYSTER SOUP 209 

mollusks, or crustaceans, to which milk or cream is added, 
sometimes white stock, also tender bits of the fish cooked for 
the purde.- We also speak of "mock bisque soup," a soup 
having the general characteristics — particularly as regards 
color and consistency — of the original bisque, but wanting in 
anything corresponding to the tender bits of crayfish that are 
so conspicuous in the original soup. We might, also, regard- 
less of color, etc., have a bisque of mushrooms. Bisques were 
formerly thickened with boiled rice which was pounded with 
the flesh to a pulp and sifted into the hot milk. 

BISQUE OF LOBSTER 

2 pound lobster. i quart of milk. 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-4 a cup of flour. 

I pint of light stock 01; water (liquor in which a fowl has been 
cooked) . 

Cut the tender portions of the claws into small cubes and 
put them into the soup tureen with the bits of meat from the 
body bones and the green liver. Simmer the body-bones and 
tough meat of the lobster in the stock or water half an hour. 
Chop or pound the meat from the tail and scald in the milk. 
Cream together the butter, seasonings, flour and sifted coral 
and cook in the hot milk ten minutes, stirring constantly 
until the milk thickens; pass through the purde sieve, strain 
into this the water, or stock in which the bones were simmered, 
reheat and pour into the tureen. 

BISQUE OF OYSTER SOUP 

I quart of oysters. 1-2 an onion. 

I teaspoonful of curry powder. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of paprika. 3 tablespoonfuls of com starch. 

Hot milk or cream as desired. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Quickly heat the oysters to the boiling point in their own 
liquor, drain and strain the liquor; sautd in the butter without 
browning the onion cut fine, add the seasonings (the curry 
may be omitted) and the cornstarch ; when frothy dilute with 
the oyster liquor and let simmer ten minutes, then keep hot 
over hot Tvater ; pound the oysters, then pass them through the 



2IO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pur^e sieve, and reheat in the sauce. When ready to serve, 
dilute to the consistency desired with hot milk or cream 
and pass through a sieve. Serve in each plate four or five 

OYSTER FORCEMEAT BALLS 

1-2 a cup of cooked oysters. x-2 a cup of fresh mushrooms. 

I- 2 a cup of bread crumbs. Yolk of egg. 

Peel the mushrooms, saut6 five minutes in a little butter, 
chop fine, add to the oyster purde, or oysters, parboiled and 
chopped, with the sifted breadcrumbs, salt and pepper and 
uncooked yolk of egg to bind the whole ; roll into small balls, 
put on a buttered baking-sheet and cook five or six minutes 
in a hot oven, or poach in hot water. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

I can or quart of tomatoes. i - 2 a cup of flour. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. 1 quart of milk. 

I - 2 a cup of butter. Salt and pepper. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of soda, if desired. ' 

Cook the tomatoes and sugar fifteen minutes ; add the soda, 
if the tomatoes are very ripe, or have been long canned, other- 
wise omit, strain and reheat. Make a white-sauce of the 
other ingredients; add the tomato and serve at once with 
croutons. 

Okra is cultivated extensively in the South and West for 
its young pods, which are very mucilaginous. These are 
used principally in soups, but they are sometimes boiled and 
dressed like asparagus. In the South, the pods of some 
varieties grow from four to eight inches in length. The dwarf 
varieties, having shorter pods, are best suited to Northern 
gardens. The pods must be gathered when they are young 
and tender. They may be preserved, for winter use, by 
drying or canning; they are also "put down" in salt, in the 
same manner as cucumbers. In the South, a soup or stew, 
made of chicken, oysters, etc., and thickened with these 
mucilaginous pods, is called "gumbo," a word thought to be 
of negro origin. Canned okra retails for about fifteen cents 
per can, and the gumbo-powder for thirty cents per bottle. 
The powder is added just before serving the soup. 



BRUNSWICK STEW (VIRGINIA) 211 

GUMBO SOUP (PROM FRESH OKRA PODS) 

3 tablespoonfuls of lard. 1-2 a small pod of red pepper. 

3 or 4 ounces of ham. 1-2 a bay leaf. 

I fowl (about 4 pounds) 2 sprigs of thyme. 

I quart of green okra pods. Boiled rice. 

I onion sliced. Salt. 

1-3 a cup of flour. 3 or 4 tomatoes. 

Disjoint the fowl, cut the ham in pieces and saut^ them in 

the hot lard to a golden brown : remove the chicken to a stew- 

\ pan (iron must not be used with okra) and saut^ the onion 

i and the okra-pods cut in pieces ; then add the flour and, when 

well blended with the fat, of which more may be needed, add 

\ gradually a quart of water; when boiling add to the chicken 

with another quart of water, the tomatoes, skins removed, the 

red pepper, bay leaf, thyme, and salt; let simmer, covered, 

very slowly until the fowl is cooked, adding more water if 

needed, also salt. In serving add a spoonful of boiled rice 

to each plate. 

BRUNSWICK STEW (VIRGINIA) 

I gallon of hot water. 4 onions. 

1 large chicken or 8 ears of com. 

2 small chickens. i cup of butter. 

1 1-2 pints of tomato. i cup of bread crumbs. 

2 slices of fat bacon. Salt and pepper. 

Into a saucepan, or soup-kettle, put the onions chopped 
fine, the tomatoes, skin removed, cut into small pieces, the 
bacon, which is to be removed when it has seasoned the stew, 
and the fowl, disjointed. 

Pour over the water and let simmer until the fowl is tender. 
Take out the fowl, remove the bones, skin, and gristle, chop 
fine and return to the kettle with the corn. To prepare the 
com, cut each row of kernels down through the centre and 
press out all the pulp. Cook twenty minutes longer. Add 
the butter and breadcrumbs with salt and pepper. This 
recipe should make four quarts. Water may be added to 
^ make up what is lost by evaporation. 



aia PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CHOWDERS 

f 

Chowders belong to a class of soups or perhaps stews often 
designated "hodge-podge." They are supposed to have 
been first made by the fisher-folk of Brittany. Each brought 
his offering to the chandler c, or caldron, in which was cooked 
the fish, biscuits, and savory condiments, and received in 
return his share, when the dish was completed. 

The early colonists in this country had learned from the 
French how to make the dish, and a knowledge of the savory 
chowders made in those early days of the country, both in 
Newfoundland and on the coast farther south, is a matter of 
history. The basis of a good chowder is a fish stock of more or 
less richness. 

FISH CHOWDER (BOSTON STYLE) 

3 to 4 pounds of fish. 3 cups of milk. 

1-4 pound of salt pork (scant) . 1-4 a cup of butter. 

I small onion. Pepper. 

I quart of sliced potatoes. i o or 1 2 hard water-crackers. 

I tablespoonful of salt. 1-3 a cup of flour, if desired. 

The fish needs be very fresh; cod, haddock, or lake fish may 
be used. Skin the fish and remove the flesh in two long 
fillets; cut these in two-inch pieces and set aside; cover the 
head, body-bones and trimmings with cold water, let come 
slowly to the boiling point, then simmer half an hour. Cut 
the pork into bits and cook out the fat slowly, to avoid dis- 
coloring; in this saute the sliced onion without browning, add 
fat and onion to the saucepan in which the head is simmering 
and strain the whole over the fish. Add the potatoes, that 
have been parboiled five minutes and drained, the salt, and 
pepper, and simmer until the potatoes are tender, about ten 
minutes, then add the milk scalded, the crackers split and 
spread with butter, and the rest of the butter. Serve in soup- 
plates from the tureen. If a thicker consistency be desired, 
cream together the flour and an equal measure of butter 
and cook fifteen minutes in the scalded milk, then add to the 
pther ingredients. 



CORN CHOWDER 213 



FISH CHOWDER, CONEY ISLAND STYLE 

Use three or four cups of strained tomatoes in the place 
of the milk and two-thirds a cup of cracker-crumbs instead of 
the split crackers. Season with a teaspoonful of mixed 
thyme and summer savory, six cloves, half a bay leaf, and a 
sprig of parsley. 

FISH CHOWDER, ENGLISH STYLE 

Use a generous cup of rather coarse, soft breadcrumbs 
instead of the crackers, and sprinkle each plate of chowder 
before passing with a tablespoonful of small irregular-shaped 
croutons. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Substitute a solid quart of clams for the fish, the other 
ingredients being the same as for fish chowder. Add a cup 
of cold water to the clams, pick over carefully, to remove bits 
of shell, strain the water and clam liquor through two folds 
of cheesecloth and in it scald the clams ; strain out the clams 
and keep hot. Add the flour to the fat and onion, cook until 
frothy, then gradually add the clam liquor and, when the mix- 
ture boils, strain it over the parboiled potatoes, and cook until 
the potatoes are tender, adding no more water than is neces- 
sary. When ready to serve add the scalded milk (part cream 
is better), the clams, and the crackers. Many kinds of 
crackers need be soaked in cold milk before they are added 
to the chowder. 

Substitute oysters for clams for oyster chowder. 

CORN CHOWDER 

I quart of fresh com pulp or i cup, each, of cream and milk. 

I can of komlet or canned com. i sliced onion. 

1 quart of sliced potatoes. 2 tablespoon fuls of butter. 

1-4 a pound of fat salt pork. 6 crackers. 

1-2 a tablespoonful of salt or more. Pepper. 

Cook the sliced onion in the fat from the pork, add two cups 
of water and let simmer while the potatoes are parboiling; then 



#^ 



ai4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

I 

drain the potatoes and strain over them the water from the 
onions ; add the com and simmer until the potatoes are tender, 
then add the scalded cream, the butter and the seasonings, 
put the crackers, split and soaked in cold milk, in the tureeiv 
and pour over the chowder. 

SOUR CHERRY SOUP (NORTH GERMANY) 

Stone a cup of sour cherries and reserve to serve in the soup. 
Stew the juice with a pint of cherries in a quart of water and 
press through a fine sieve. Heat to the boiling point and 
thicken with a teaspoon ful of cornstarch, diluted with water 
to pour, or mixed with one-fourth a cup of sugar; let cook 
fifteen minutes. Meanwhile, pound the cherry-stones and 
heat them with a cup of red wine just to the boiling point 
and. strain the liquid into the soup; add the stoned cherries 
and serve with crackers or toast, sprinkled, if desired, with 
sugar. The soup may be served cold with sweet crackers 
soaked slightly on the edges with wine, then sprinkled with 
sugar. Macaroons and plain sweet crackers are also served. 
Fruit soups take the place of fruit as a first course at a luncheon 
or tea and may be made of almost any variety of fruit. The 
thickening is often omitted. 

WINE OF SAGO SOUP 

Dilute the desired amount of claret with an equal amount of 
cold water and sweeten to taste. Serve in cups, adding to 
each cup a few grains of sago, cooked in water and cooled, 
and two or three pieces of pineapple cut in fanciful shape with 
a French cutter. The claret may be diluted with cold con- 
somme (made from lean meat without bones, and cooked at 
a low temperature, so that it may not jelly), but the soup will 
not be quite as clear as when water is used. This -soup is 
appropriate as an appetizer, at a luncheon, *'tea, " or spread, 
where cold service is desired. 

GARNISHES FOR SOUPS 

In serving a soup with a garnish, have the soup in the tureen, 
and the garnish, covered with a few spoonfuls of soup, to keep 



EGG BALLS 215 

it moist, in a vegetable dish. Then when a ladle of soup — a 
cup of soup is allotted to each individual — has been placed 
in a soup-plate, add to it about a tablespoonful of garnish. 
Serve about a dozen peas, or other small article, and half a 
dozen quenelles, pieces of custard, or timbale cut with French 
cutter; or if, as is sometimes the case, timbales cut in three 
even slices are to be served, add to the small garnish two slices 
of timbale. 

WHITE CUSTARD FOR CONSOMME 

Add a tablespoonful of cream or milk to each white of egg 
and beat until well blended. Season with salt, white pepper, 
and a little celery-salt. Strain into a buttered mould and 
let ppach, standing on a trivet, until the centre is firm. When 
cold unmould, cut in thin slices and stamp out in fanciful 
figures. The addition of the liquid, particularly cream, gives 
a very tender garnish. 

YOLKS FOR MOCK TURTLE, CONSOMME. ETC. 

Drops the yolks into salted water, just below the boiling 
point, and let them lie until they are cooked throughout. 
Serve one in each plate of soup. 

ROYALE CUSTARD FOR CONSOMME A LA ROYALE 

3 yolks. 1-4 a teaspoonful of mace. 

I whole egg. A few grains of paprika. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of cream or consomme. 

.Beat the eggs until white and yolks are well mixed; add 
the seasonings and liquid and ctiam into a buttered mould of 
such size as to make the custard nearly half an inch thick. 
Poach in hot water in the oven, or on the top of the stove, 
until firm. When cold unmould and cut in squares, diamonds, 
or other shapes with a French cutter. 

EGG BALLs 

3 yolks of hard boiled eggs. A few grains of salt and pepper. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of melted butter. The uncooked yolk of an egg. 

Press the cooked yolks through a sieve; add the butter, 



2i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

salt and pepper, and enough of the raw yolk to make the 
mixture of a consistency to handle. Shape in small balls, 
roll in white of egg and then in flour, and saut^ in butter, or 
poach in hot water. Serve with brown soup, consommd, or 
mock turtle soup. 

NOODLES 

To three eggs, slightly beaten, add a few grains of salt and 
enough flour to make a stiff dough ; knead fifteen or twenty 
minutes, when it will be elastic; roll into a sheet as thin as 
paper; (a piece of duck, or sail-cloth is the best surface upon 
which to roll the paste). Let stand covered with a cloth 
about half an hour, then with a sharp knife cut as desired into 
threads or quarter-inch ribbons: or cut with a tube into 
rounds half an inch in diameter, or with French cutter into 
fanciful shapes. Cook the threads, ribbons, or fanciful shapes 
in boiling salted water fifteen minutes, then add to the hot 
soup. Fry the rounds in smoking hot fat; they will puff in 
cooking. To cut the threads and ribbons, roll the paste 
loosely like a jelly-roll, then cut off in pieces the width desired. 
To cut the rounds, etc., fold the paste so as to make two or 
more thicknesses; separate the pieces and let dry an hour 
before cooking. Serve in brown soup, or in consomm<$, or as 
a vegetable. 

TAPIOCA, SPAGHETTI, MACARONI, ETC. 

Tapioca, spaghetti, alphabet paste, macaroni, cut into rings, 
or broken in two-inch lengths, and vegetables, cut in fancy 
. shapes, are all used for garnishes. In all cases these should 
be cooked in boiling, salted water until tender, then drained 
and added to the soup. Macaroni is cut into rings after it 
is cooked, the others are cut into shapes either before or after 
cooking; all should be blanched before cooking. If quick 
cooking tapioca be used, it may be cooked in the soup. Serve 
in brown or white soup — that is, broths, or consomm6. 

CHESTNUT TIMBALE FOR CONSOMME 

1-2 a cup of chestnut puree. The yolk of six eggs. 

I - 2 a cup of cream. A few grains of mace and salt. 



PEARL BARLEY 217 

Beat the yolks slightly and add to the other ingredients ; 
poach until firm in a buttered mould. When cold unmould 
and cut in small pieces. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD FOR CONSOMME 

(green and red) 

1-4 a cup of cooked chicken. 3 tablespoonfuls of tomato puree. 

2 eggs. Salt and paprika. 

Pound the chicken in a mortar and with pestle press through 
the pur^e sieve; add the seasonings, beaten eggs and tomato 
and poach until firm in a buttered mould. When cold un- 
mould and cut as desired. Serve accompanied with half a 
cup of peas. 

TOMATO, CHICKEN, SHRIMP, ONION, GREEN PEA AND 

ASPARAGUS TIMBALES 

(served in consomme) 

1-2 a cup of puree as desired. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or con- 
Yolks of four eggs. somm^ . 
I whole egg. Salt and pepper. 

The cooked material is to be pounded in a mortar, when 
needed, then passed through a pur^e sieve, mixed with the 
other ingredients and poached and cut in the usual manner. 

VEGETABLES 

(served in consomme and also in certain broths, 

purees and cream soups) 

Flowerets of cauliflower, asparagus, peas, string-beans /Cut 
in diamond shapes, or Julienne style (strips two inches by one- 
fourth an inch), carrots cut in figures, in strips, or in balls, — 
these should be blanched and cooked before adding them to 
the soup. Cucumber pulp cut in shape of peas, diamonds, etc. 
cooked until tender in consomm^, are served with flageolets. 



PEARL BARLEY 



(served in broths, consomme, etc) 

Cook three hours or longer, until tender, in boiling water, 
then drain and add to the soup. 



2i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CHICKEN LIVER BALLS 

(served in puree of chicken or consomme) 

4 ounces of chicken livers. 1-2 teaspoonful of fine-chopped 

The yolksof four eggs. parsley or other sweet herbs. 

Salt and pepper. 

Sautd the livers ten minutes in melted butter, then pound 
and press through a sieve; add the seasoning and the yolks, 
form into small balls half an inch in diameter, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and saut^ in clarified butter, or fry in deep fat; drain on 
soft paper. 

PATE A CHOUX 

(served in broth or consomme) 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. A few grains of salt. 

1 -4 a cup of broth or consomme. i -4 a cup of floxir. 

I large egg. 

Melt the butter in the broth; let boil and stir in the flour 
and salt ; when the mixture separates from the pan (in stirring) 
remove from the fire and add the egg. Beat in thoroughly, 
then drop in round bits from a teaspoon into hot fat and fry 
to a delicate brown; drain and add to the soup when passed. 
They soften very quickly. Two tablespoonfuls of Parmesan 
cheese may be added before the egg, if desired. 

CELERY AND LETTUCE 

(for consomme with timbales or alone, in cream soups, 

chicken puree, etc.) 

Cut half a cup of the white leaves of celery in small squares, 
or lettuce in fine shreds; blanch, then cook in broth or water 
until tender; drain and add to the soup. Celery stalks may 
be cut in Julienne shreds, or in quarter-inch slices. 

QUENELLES FOR CONSOMME 

4 ounces of panada (1-2 a cup) . i egg. 

8 ounces of uncooked chicken , i tablespoon ful of cream or white 
veal or game pulp (1 cup) . sauce. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and pepper. 



PUFF •PASTE CROUTONS 219 

For the panada cook the crumb of bread with milk, stirring 
constantly xmtil it is smooth and forms a ball. Scrape the 
pulp from the fibre of the meat, weigh or measure, add the 
panada and pound in the mortar, moistening with the butter, 
eggy and sauce, or cream, then pass through a sieve. Poach 
in small buttered moulds, or shape in after-dinner coffee- 
spoons and poach directly in the water, or shape with forcing- 
bag and tube upon a buttered frying-pan; cover with hot 
water, and let stand until firm; drain carefully before adding 
to the soup. These are not as delicate quenelles as may be 
made when more cream is used, but they are easily made. 
For others, see Quenelle and Cream Forcemeat under 
Entries. 

RECIPE FOR FLOUR PANADA 

I tablespoonftil of butter. 1-2 a cup of stock or water. 

1-2 a cup of flour. 

Prepare as pat^ k choux. 

GARNISHES FOR CREAM SOUPS 

Besides the garnishes previously given for cream soups one 

or two others might be noted. At hotels and restaurants, 

these soups are often garnished with croutons or bits of bread 

browned in butter. At the home-table, quife as often, the 

croutons are passed with the soup; this gives an opportunity 

for cutting them in larger sizes. An attractive crouton, and 

one that can be eaten from the fingers, is cut three or four 

inches in length, and about three-eighths of an inch in width 

and thickness. Crackers split, the split side buttered and 

browned delicately in the oven, are also served with these 

soups. When croutons are served as a garnish, a spoonful 

should be sprinkled over the top of the soup after it is put 

into the individual plate, as their crispness is lost, if they be 

allowed to remain long in the soup. 

PUFF PASTE CROUTONS 

(for puree of chicken, or game) 

Cut trimmings of puff-paste into pieces half an inch square 
and bake a delicate brown. Serve separately. 



CHAPTER VII 

Sauces 

'* On dcvient cuisinicr, on devicnt rotisseur, on nait saucier." 

— Brillat-Savarin. 

This epigram of a famous French epicure, and our onetime 
Boston orchestra player, translated into English means: 
cooking and roasting can be taught, but it takes a genius to 
make a sauce. It is apt and to the point. Savarin in his 
"Meditations on Transcendent Gastronomy" wrote nothing 
more true. There is an indefinable daintiness and delicacy 
in the flavor and smoothness of a sauce when it is properly 
made, that only one endowed with fine sensibilities of taste 
can justly appreciate, and only such an one, save by some 
fortuitous accident, can hope to prepare a perfect sauce. En- 
trust the roasting of a carefully selected joint or fowl to an 
ordinary cook and, if she but understand and apply the sim- 
plest rules of cookery, your confidence will not have been 
misplaced and the most epicurean taste will be satisfied. 
But it is quite another matter when it comes to the prepara- 
tion of the sauce for the entrde. 

The saucier must of necessity be dextrous in extracting 
and retaining volatile flavors; she must be able to select those 
that will blend, one with the other, and produce a harmony of 
savors adapted to the particular dish for which it is designed. 
and this adaptation of sauce to plat consists not only in the 
harmony, but often in the contrast of savors. Moreover, 
in the proper adaptation of a sauce, too strong flavors are to 
be moderated, weak but agreeable ones are to be brought out 
and accentuated, and dry, plain dishes are to be made moist 
and enriched. A perfect sauce is a promoter of digestion 

220 



SAUCES 221 

and an aid to nutrition; when a contrary effect is produced 
something is wrong with the sauce. 

One of the nice points, in making a sauce, is that of the 
temperature of the liquid that is added to the roux. A sauce 
of perfect flavor cannot be made by adding a hot liquid to the 
hot roux. A cold liquid may be added at once, or, if the roux 
be cooled, a warm liquid may be used. In all cases it is safer 
to add the liquid gradually and with continuous stirring; 
an expert can add all the cold liquid at once. Then, too, 
entirely different results are secured by the manner in which 
the flavor of vegetables and the kitchen bouquet are added 
to the sauce. A higher and more pronounced, to some more 
agreeable, flavor is brought out, when these are cooked in the 
butter that is to be used in the roux, than when they are 
merely scalded in the liquid of the sauce. 

In menus we often see the dish Roast Beef au Jus. This 
French appellation is an inheritance from Roman times; jus 
was their word for sauce, but its meaning to-day is limited to 
the juice flowing from the roast or grill when it is cut. It 
corresponds to the English word gravy — platter gravy. The 
addition of hot water to beef gravy or jus gives bouillon. 

That the English formerly knew so little of sauces (com- 
pounds of juices, roux, Mirepoix, etc.) save that of melted 
butter, was occasioned, perhaps, by the fact that they did not 
feel the need of them. The essence extracted from joints of 
well-fed beef, mutton, and game was all sufficient. (Bread- 
sauce is, however, an English production.) 

The French, lacking rich, juicy provisions, were, in a meas- 
ure, compelled to increase the number of their ^auces and 
bring to a higher degree of perfection those that had been 
received as an inheritance. When one considers at random 
the six or seven hundred sauces described in French books of 
cookery and reads of glaze, mirepoix, blonde and brown roux, 
the subject seems quite intricate ; but this is not the case. All 
sauces (as distinguished from gravies) are made consistent 
or given body by the addition of a thickening, or binding agent, 
or in French a liaison. Making this thickening the basis of 
division, we may' consider 



222 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

r White 



I. Sauces thickened by roux 

Brown 



1 



fHot. 



2. Sauces thickened by egg emulsion 

Cold. 

3. Independent sauces, or sauces belonging to no 

general class, marinades, etc. 

Gouff6 reduces the matter of sauces thickened with roux to 
lowest terms, when he refers to four fundamental sauces from 
which all others are made — viz: 

1. Espagnole. (Brown) 

2. Velout6. (White) 

3. Allemande. (Yellow, velout6 and egg.) 

4. Bechamel. (White, velout6 and cream.) 

In noting Gouff^*s fundamental sauces we see that Alle- 
mande and Bechamel have veloutd as their basis, so that in 
reality the subject of sauces, when it is reduced to its *' lowest 
terms,*' would seem to centre round but two: Espagnole and 
veloutd, or casting aside all apparent superfluities of flavoring, 
simmering, and skimming, to the simple economical and easily 
made brown and white sauces most generally used in this 
country in family cookery. With these simple sauces as a 
foundation all the different varieties of French sauces may be 
made, and these may be considered first under the head of 

I. SAUCES THICKENED WITH ROUX 
SIMPLE SAUCES 

All simple sauces are produced from roux, white, or blonde, 
or brown, salt, and pepper, and liquid, either cream, milk, 
water or stock. 

ROUX FOR SAUCES 

Roux, used to give body to sauce, is made with equal weights 
of flour and butter, or with half the weight of butter in flour, 
cooked together, for a white sauce, until the flour has been 
changed to dextrine, and for a brown sauce to caramel. To 



THICK WHITE SAUCE 223 

change the flour to dextrine for a white sauce, melt the butter 
in a small, smooth and perfectly clean saucepan; when it 
bubbles add the flour with salt and pepper and cook and stir 
until the mixture takes on a yellow appearance, from three to 
five minutes. When a brown sauce is desired, and the flour 
is to be changed to dextrine and then to caramel, continue 
the cooking with constant stirring upon the top of the range — 
or it may be done with occasional stirring by setting the sauce- 
pan in the oven — until the mixture has acquired a russet brown 
or reddish color; this is roux proper, a white roux being one 
of the contradictions in cookery. When this has been done, 
let the roux cool by drawing it to another place on the range, 
add the liquid gradually and stir constantly. When all of 
the liquid has been added bring the sauce to boil vigorously, 
then remove to a cooler place and let simmer five minutes. 
Unless it be time to serve, let stand in hot water, covering it 
meanwhile to avoid the formation of film on the surface. If 
after standing »the butter separates from the sauce giving an 
oily appearance, add a tablespoonful of cold liquid and stir 
constantly, until the mixture boils again. If a sauce be 
thicker than desired, add more liquid, if too thin, make a roux, 
let cool, and gradually add the sauce to it. 

WHITE SAUCE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter (i ounce) i cup of milk or white stock. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour (1-2 ounce) 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

a teaspoonful of white pepper. 



'/. 



CREAM SAUCE 



Use cream instead of milk and from one to two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, according to the thickness of the cream; other- 
wise, the same as white sauce. 

THICK WHITE SAUCE 

(for croquettes and similar mixtures) 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter, one-third a cup of flour, 
one cup of milk, or white stock, or cream and white stock 
combined. Use the same quantity of condiments and prepare 
as white sauce. 



224 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

VELOUTE SAUCE 

Same as white sauce, with white stock, preferably chicken, 
flavored with onion, celery, carrot, and a bouquet, as the 
liquid. 

ALLEMANDE SAUCE 

To a pint of velout^ sauce add one-fourth a cup of mush- 
room liquor, reduced by simmering to about a tablespoonful, 
mushrooms cut in halves, or chopped if desired, and the yolks of 
two eggs, beaten and mixed with one tablespoonful of creamed 
butter. Before adding the yolks and butter, remove the 
saucepan from the fire, let cool a moment or two, then add a 
little of the sauce to the eggs ; mix thoroughly, add more sauce, 
mix and return to the saucepan and stir over the fire a few 
moments without boiling. 

BECHAMEL 

Make a velout^ sauce, using equal quantities of chicken 
stock and cream as the liquid. If the chicken stock has not 
been flavored with vegetables, etc., fry a generous tablespoon- 
ful of vegetables, carrot, onion, parsley, etc., in the butter, 
before adding the flour; do not, however, allow them to color: 
strain before serving. 

YELLOW BECHAMEL 

To a pint of sauce add, as in Allemande sauce, from two to 
four yolks of eggs, diluted with a tablespoonful of cream to 
each yolk. 

CHEESE SAUCE 

(for baked or boiled fish, or chicken, boiled cauxi- 

flower, macaroni, or rice with or without 

oysters, or by the omission op part 

of the cream a filling for 

CHEESE patties) 

Let half a cup of Bechamel sauce, three-fourths a cup of 
cream, a dash of paprika and one-fourth a pound of Gruyere 



CELERY SAUCE 225 

or Cheddar cheese, cut into thin shavings, stand over hot 
water, until the cheese is melted ; stir until smooth and serve 
at once. A Welsh rarebit, made rather thin, is often used as 
a sauce. 

WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE (CANNED MUSHROOMS) 

To a pint of velout6 sauce add a generous half-cup of mush- 
rooms, cut in halves or chopped. Do not let boil after the 
mushrooms are added. 

VELOUTE SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH 

Use the water in which the fish was cooked, fish-stock, in 
making the usual velout^ sauce; cook a bay leaf, a slice of 
onion, and part of a carrot with the fish, or fry the vegetables 
in the butter used for the roux. The ordinary velout^ sauce 
made with veal and chickei>-stock may, also, be used with the 
fish. For egg-sauce, add two hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. 

ASPARAGUS SAUCE (BROILED CHICKEN OR FISH) 

Pass a cup of cooked asparagus-tips through a sieve and 
add to a pint of velout6 sauce. Heat to the boiling point, 
add salt and pepper and, if desired, the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. 

SOUBISE SAUCE 

(for lamb, mutton or pork chops) 

Slice four onions, cover with cold water and drain after boil- 
ing five minutes ; let cook with two stalks of parsley in boiling 
water until very soft, pass through a sieve and add to a cup of 
white sauce made with cream, or milk, or add to a cup of 
veloutd sauce. 

CELERY SAUCE 

(for boiled fowl) 

Boil a cup of celery, cut in bits, in salted water until tender; 
drain and add to a cup of white sauce made with cream or 
milk scalded with celery leaves, or use half a cup of cream and 
half a cup of the water in which the celery was cooked. 



226 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CAULIFLOWER SAUCE 

(for boiled fowl) 

To a pint of white sauce made with milk or cream, or to a 
pint of velout^ sauce, add a generous cup of cooked catiliflower 
flowerets ; reheat and when ready to serve beat in a teaspoon- 
ful of butter and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

TOMATO SAUCE (WHITE) 

^ i To a pint of velout6 sauce add half a cup of tomato pur^e. 
For the pur^e, let simmer a generous cup of strained tomato 
pulp until reduced one-half. Or make a white sauce, using 
half a cup, each, of milk and tomato pur^e as the liquid. A 
few grains less than one-fourth a teaspoonful of soda may be 
added with the tomato. Scald the milk with a slice of onion, 
a stalk of celery, and a bit of bay leaf. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

• 

Cook a can of tomatoes, half an onion with a clove in it. 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a stalk of celery, a sprig of parsley, 
and a bay leaf twenty minutes: strain and cool. For each 
cup of pur6e make a white roux with two tablespoonfuls, 
each, of butter and flour; then when cool add the pur6e and 
half a teaspoonful of meat extract; or use part stock and part 
pur^e. A tomato sauce is usually made quite thick, almost a 
pur^e. If th^ tomato pulp be thin, use more flour in the roux. 

CURRY SAUCE 

1-4 a cup of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped onion . 

1-4 a cup of flour. 2 cups of milk or 

2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder, i cup of milk and 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. i cup of white stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Cook the onion in the butter without browning; add the 
flour, curry-powder, and salt mixed together; let cook three 
or four minutes, add the liquid, the currant-jelly, and thi 
lemon juice; strain and reheat. When convenient use cocoa- 
nut, or almond-milk. To prepare, let half a cup or more o 



HORSERADISH SAUCE 227 

blanched almonds, or cocoanut, chopped and pounded in a 
mortar, stand in a cup and a half of hot milk an hour or more. 
Keep the milk hot, tfhen strain through a cloth, pressing out 
the liquid from the nuts. 

CHEESE SAUCE 

(for halibut or other white fish, baked) 

I tablespoonful of butter. 3-4 a cup of milk. 

I tablespoonful of cornstarch. i- 2 a pound of grated cheese. 

I egg. Salt, mustard and cayenne to taste 

Make a sauce of the first three ingredients ; add the cheese 
and seasonings and stir until melted; add a beaten egg and 
serve as soon as the egg is blended with the sauce; do not let 
boil after the cheese is added. 

OYSTER SAUCE 

(for boiled fowl or fish, baked fish, fish timbales, etc.) 

Scald a dozen and a half of oysters in their own liquor; 
skim carefully, drain and keep hot. When ready to serve, 
add to a pint of white sauce made with a cup, each, of strained 
oyster broth and milk or cream. Or add to a pint of velout^ 
sauce. Onion, celery, and carrot, a bay leaf, etc., may be 
scalded in the milk. Also add a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
if desired. 

LOBSTER SAUCE, NO. i 

(for boiled fish, fish timbales, etc.) 

To a cup and a half of velout6 made with chicken or lobster 
stock, or of white sauce made with milk or cream, or part lobster 
or fish stock, add half a cup of lobster meat cut in cubes, and 
if convenient, beat in a tablespoonful of lobster butter, add 
also a dash of paprika and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
Shrimp sauce may be made in the same way. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

To a cup of velout^ sauce add one-fourth a cup of hot cream 
and one-third a cup of fresh-grated horseradish ; let heat with- 
out boiling. 



aa8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BUTTER SAUCE (DRAWN OR MELTED BUTTER) 

1-3 a cup of butter. 1-4 a teaspoon ful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper 

I cup of water. 

Use half the butter with the flour in making the roux: when 
ready to serve, beat in the rest of the butter, a small piece at 
a time. As in making all sauces thickened with roux, cook 
the flour thoroughly before adding any of the liquid. The 
feature of this sauce is the addition of the butter, little by 
little, after the completion of the cooking. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

(for fish) 

To a pint of butter sauce add from one-fourth to one-half 
a cup of chopped cucumber pickles. 

CAPER SAUCE 

(for boiled fish and mutton) 

To a pint of butter sauce add from one-fourth to half a cup 
of capers. 

EGG SAUCE 

(for boiled fish) 

To a pint of butter sauce add two or three hard-boiled eggs 
cut in one-fourth inch slices, or chopped rather coarsely. 

(for fish) 

Pound the flesh of four anchovies with two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a mortar; stir into a cup of butter-sauce, pass 
through a sieve, reheat and add the jtiice of half a lemon. 

GERMAN SAUCE 

(for baked fish, especially shad) 

To a pint of butter-sauce add the juice of half a lemon and 
, half a cup of fine-chopped cooked spinach; strain a part erf 



BROWN TOMATO SAUCE 229 

the sauce over the fish and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. 
Do not strain out the spinach ; use a sieve and pass the spinach 
through it. The beaten yolks of two eggs may be added with 
the last of the butter. 

BROWN SAUCE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonfiil of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 1-4 a teaspoonfiil of pepper. 

I cup of brown stock. 

Prepare a brown roux, being careful not to bum the butter 
and flour; add the stock gradually. 

BROWN SAUCE NO. 2 

I tablespoonful of fine bits of onion. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I tablespoonful of fine bits of carrot. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

I sprig of parsley. i -4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I sprig of thyme. i -4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 

Piece of bay leaf. i cup of brown stock. 

Cook the vegetables and herbs in the butter until a russet 
brown; add the flour (an extra tablespoonful is used, as flour 
loses its thickening quality to some extent when changed to 
caramel) and brown; then add the stock gradually. Strain 
before using. Flour already browned for sauces may be 
purchased at first-class groceries. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE 

(for beefsteaks, fillets of beef, etc.) 

To one cup of brown sauce add one-third a cup of canned 
button-mushrooms, whole or cut in halves. Fresh mush- 
rooms need be cleaned and peeled, then sautdd in butter, or 
simmered in water until tender, before they are added to the 
sauce. 

BROWN TOMATO SAUCE 

1 (for beefsteak, cannelon of beef, macaroni, etc.) 

 

Take either recipe for brown sauce, using half the liquid 
: of brown stock and half of tomato pulp, measured after stew- 
I ing and straining. 



230 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

OLIVE SAUCE 

(for roast duck) 

Cover a dozen olives with boiling water and let stand half 
an hour on the back of the range. Pare them round and 
round and remove the stone ; add to a pint of brown sauce, 
then let simmer five or six minutes. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE 

(for boiled beef) 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped shallot i -4 a cup of butter. 

or very mild onion. 1-3 a cup of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of fine-chopped 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

parsley. 2 cups of brown stock. 

Cayenne to taste. 

Cook the shallot with the butter and vinegar until the 
butter looks clear and brown, when the shallot will have 
absorbed the vinegar. Then add the flour and pepper, salt, 
if needed, and let cook until brown ; add the stock gradually 
and, just before serving, the parsley and gherkins. 

CURRANT-JELLY SAUCE 

(for rechauffes of venison, mutton and lamb) 

Add to a cup of brown sauce, made by the first recipe, one- 
fourth a cup of currant-jelly and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. 

SAUCE VILLEROI 

(for oysters, eggs VILLEROI, AND FOR COATING COLD 

FILLETS, OR OTHER MEATS THAT ARE TO 

BE HEATED BEFORE SERVING 

To a cup of white or brown sauce made in the usual manner 
add (after removing from the fire) the yolks of two eggs beaten 
with one-fourth a cup of cream or milk. Cook over hot 
water, stirring constantly, until the sauce is quite stiff. When 
the sauce begins to cool, pour it over the articles to be served 
villeroi style, . or the articles may be rolled in the sauce. 



REFERRING TO SAUCES 231 

Chopped mushrooms and parsley are often mixed with the 
sauce. 

CHAUDFROID SAUCE 

(for covering cold galantine op fowl, boiled or braised 

TONGUES, sweetbreads, ETC., THAT ARE TO 

BE SERVED COLD) 

To a pint of brown or white sauce made in the usual way 
and while still hot, add half a box, or one ounce of gelatine 
that has been soaked in cold water until soft. Stir until the 
gelatine has dissolved; then strain and use as soon as it begins 
to stiffen. Use a spoon and silver knife to spread the sauce, 
and fill uneven places on the surface of the article with sauce 
before beginning to cover the same, so that the dish when 
finished may present a smooth even surface. The article to 
be covered should be chilled on ice before the sauce is spread 
upon it. Use tomato sauce when a red color is desired. If 
a yellow color be the choice, add three or four beaten yolks of 
eggs, just as the sauce is removed from the fire. 

Flour has been used as the starchy ingredient of roux, but 
cornstarch or arrowroot may be used, keeping in mind that, 
as cornstarch has about twice the capacity of flour as a thicken- 
iiig agent and arrowroot even greater capacity, the quantity 
must be diminished accordingly. 

REFERRING TO SAUCES 

Butter and other fats when heated attain a high degree of 
temperature and in them starchy materials are cooked very 
quickly; but fats at a high temperature undergo certain 
changes that render them difficult of digestion, so that sauces 
prepared with roux are not suitable for children, or convales- 
cents. For these it is better to prepare a sauce by one of the 
following methods: heat the stock, or water, to the boiling 
point (if milk be used, scald it over hot water), then dilute 
the butter, flour, and seasonings creamed together with a 
little of the hot liquid, stir until smooth, then stir and cook 
in the rest of the hot liquid ten or fifteen minutes. Or dilute 
the floiir and seasonings with cold liquid to pour, and stir into 



333 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the boiling liquid, adding a little butter after the sauce is 
cooked, if desirable. 

FINE SAUCES 

Under the name of fine sauces, the two fundamental French 
sauces are to be noted. There are two points wherein these 
sauces differ from the simple wliite and brown sauces, that are 
the fundamental sauces in the ordinary family cuisine, viz.: 
the character of the liquid used, and the final removal of the 
butter used in the roux. In the recipes for simple sauces, 
stock is used. In families of ordinary size there is usually 
material enough in the fiank-ends of steak, the trimmings from 
chops, the bones from roasts of beef and fowl, the heads and 
trimmings from fish, and the body-bones from lobsters, to fur- 
nish all the stock needed for sauces. But the more carefully 
selected these materials are, the better the stock and, con- 
sequently, the sauce will be. Nor will bones and fat meat 
alone suffice, there must be the proper proportion of raw lean 
meat. The stock used in Espagnole sauce is not made of odds 
and ends, but of beef and veal, that in velout^, of veal and 
chicken. Espagnole and velout($ sauce maigre are made of 
any suitable white fish. 

ESPAGNOLE SAUCE 

Butter a stew-pan and put in two small onions, sliced; 
upon these place three pounds of veal from the fillet and one 
pound of beef from the neck, or round ; moisten with a cup of 
** general" stock made without fowl and let boil until the 
stock is half reduced. Now, do not neglect the meat, but 
let simmer gently, turning frequently until it is of an even. 
bright brown color. The caramel flavor produced by thus 
glazing the meat is one of the features of French sauces. The 
glazing must be arrested as soon as a bright brown color is 
attained; for, if the glaze becomes dark brown in color, the 
sauce will be bitter. When the meat is glazed, remove from 
the fire, and let stand, covered, five minutes; this will facilitate 
the dissolving of the glaze. Now pour in three quarts of 
general stock, bring to the boiling point and add a carrot, 
cut small, half a tablespoonful of salt, and half a bay- leaf. 



SAUCE SUPREME 233 

and a sprig of thyme tied in a sprig or two of parsley; let 
simmer until the meat is tender, then remove to serve as 
bouilli, or for use in *'made dishes.*' Strain and cool the 
stock. Make a brown roux with one cup of clarified butter 
and two cups of flour; add the stock in the usual manner. 
After all is added and the sauce is boiling, remove to the back 
of the range, and let simmer two hours with the saucepan 
partly covered. Skim oflf the fat twice during this period. 
At the end of two hours remove the fat a third time, strain 
the sauce and set aside for use. Butter loses its flavor in 
cooking, and it is used in all sauces thickened with roux §imply 
as a medium in which to cook starch to dextrine or caramel. 
The removal of this butter, which has served its purpose, gives 
the smooth velvety appearance that distinguishes the simple 
from the fine sauces. 

VELOUTE SAUCE 

3 pounds of fillet of veal. i carrot. 

I chicken (fillets of breast removed Salt and pepper, 

if desired.) i cup of butter. 

I onion. 2 cups of flour. 

4 quarts of general stock (white meat) . 

Prepare as Espagnole sauce, but without glazing the meat, 
or browning the flour. In large establishments, where a 
variety in sauces is called for, by simply adding to these funda- 
mental sauces the essence of mushrooms, game, or chicken, 
glaze of some particular kind and mirepoix, i.e., vegetable 
glaze, any kind of sauce desired is produced at short notice; 
as, for instance : 

SAUCE SUPREME 

I quart of fine velout6 sauce. 
1-2 a cup of essence of chicken. 
1-2 a cup of essence of mushrooms. 

Let the ingredients come to the boiling point and simmer 
half an hour, then skim. 



2 34 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



ESSENCE OF CHICKEN 

Essences are used to flavor and dilute the fundamental 
sauces; the various essences of fowl, game, etc. are all pre- 
pared in the same way. Remove the breasts and legs from 
three chickens and set aside for other use; disjoint the rest, 
add to the result a pound of veal, an onion with a clove in it, 
half a carrot, a kitchen bouquet and three pints of chicken 
consomm^; let simmer until the meat is done. Use the 
meat in made dishes ; strain the essence and set aside ; skim 
off the fat before using. 

ESSENCE OP MUSHROOMS 

In a closed sauce pan put a pound of cleaned mushrooms, 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and a teaspoonful of salt, 
over the fire ; let stand five minutes, then add a pint of chicken 
consomm^ ; let boil about eight minutes ; strain and set aside. 
The mushrooms may be added to a salpicon of chicken, or 
oysters. 

MIREPOIX 

Impound of veal. 2 onions. 

1-2 a pound of bacon. 2 bay leaves. • 

1 pound of ham. i sprig of thyme. 

2 carrots. 2 shallots. 

2 1-2 quarts of general stock. 

Put the meat and vegetables, all cut in small pieces, into 
a frying-pan and fry to a light brown color; add the stock, 
let boil up once, then simmer two hours; strain and set away 
for' use. 

GLAZE 

Meat, game, or fish glaze is added to certain fine sauces to 
finish them; glaze is also much used to give a glossy, shiny 
appearance to joints, baked fish and entries. A meat glaze 
is used for baked sweetbreads, and gives to them a 
very inviting appearance. For household use it may be 
prepared by reducing a strong, cleared stock, either white 
or brown, one-fourth. Simmer in an open saucepan until it 
has the consistency of a sauce. When cold it will be solid 



NONPAREIL SAUCE 235 

and somewhat elastic. When ready to use, heat over hot 
water and apply with a brush, or baste the article to be glazed 
with a spoon. 

SAUCES THICKENED WITH EGG EMULSION 

(hot sauces) 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

(POR BOILED OR BAKED FISH, FISH TIMBALES, ASPARAGUS, 

CAULIFLOWER, ETC.) 

1-2 a cup of butter. A few grains of cayenne. 

Yolks of two to four eggs. 1-2 a cup of boiling water. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. The juice of half a lemon. 

With a small wooden spoon cream the butter; add the 
yolks of the eggs, one at a time, and beat into the butter 
thoroughly; add the salt, cayenne, and water and cook in a 
double-boiler, stirring constantly, until the sauce thickens; 
then add the lemon juice and remove from the fire. The 
number of yolks depends upon the consistency desired in the 
sauce. Lift the saucepan from the water from time to time, 
lest the sauce be curdled by. overcooking. With two egg- 
yolks the sauce should be creamy, with four, about the con- 
sistency of mayonnaise sauce. 

LOBSTER OR SHRIMP SAUCE, NO. a 

To the recipe for Hollandaise sauce add half a cup of lobster 
meat cut in cubes, or shrimps picked in pieces and also, if at 
hand, a tablespoonful of lobster butter, (see page 242.) 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

Prepare a Hollandaise sauce according to recipe previously 
given; add a raw cucumber cut in dice. 

NONPAREIL SAUCE 

Tint a pint of Hollandaise sauce with lobster butter; then 
add the meat from the claws of a lobster, the poached white 
of an egg and six or eight canned or cooked mushrooms, all 
cut into cubes. 



256 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



COLBERT SAUCE 



1-3 a cup strong consomm^ or 

chicken stocfk. 
The yolks of two eggs. 
1-2 a cup of butter. 
The juice of haH a lemon. 



1-2 a tablespoonful of chopped 

parsley. 
1-2 a tablespoonful of chopped 

tarragon. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 



Melt the consommd; when heated add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs and stir and cook over hot water until the sauce is 
thickened slightly. Add the butter in small bits to the sauce 
while cooking. Before taking from the fire add the herbs and 
salt. 

MOUSSELINE SAUCE 

(for asparagus and cauliflower) 

I- 2 a cup of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

The yolks of four eggs. ' 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-4 a cup of thick cream. A few grains of cayenne. 

Make as Hollandaise sauce, using cream in place of water, 
but reserving half the butter to add in bits at the last. 

BERNAISE SAUCE 

(for broiled steak and fillets op beef) 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped shallot The yolks of three eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 1-2 a cup of butter. 

A few grains of cayenne. i tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Cook the shallot with the vinegar until nearly all the vinegar 
is absorbed : add the yolks and a small piece of the butter, and 
let cook over hot water, adding the butter in small pieces, 
then add the seasonings. This sauce has about the consistency 
of mayonnaise sauce. It may be used either hot or cold. 

FRENCH SAUCE 

Make a Bemaise sauce, using one cup of butter in all and 
additional salt and pepper : add to the sauce while mixing one- 
fourth a cup of thick tomato puree that has been passed 
through a very fine sieve ; finish the sauce with one tablespoon- 
ful of chicken glaze, one tablespoonful of fine-chopped pars- 
ley, and, if desired, a tablespoonful of reduced chili vinegar. 



MAKING OF MAYONNAISE DRESSING 237 

COLD &AUCBS 
MAYONNAISE SAUCE 

{for salads and cold meats) 

A few grains of cayenne or papdka. i pint of olive oil. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon jui<^. 

The yolks of two raw eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

I teaspoonful of powdered sugar and 1-2 a teaspoonful of mustard if 
desired. 

Mix the salt and paprika, and add the yolks of egg, which 
shotdd be fresh ; beat with a wooden spoon until the ingredients 
are well mixed and the yolks thickened slightly ; add a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice or vinegar and when well blended with the 
other ingredients add the oil drop by drop, beating constantly. 
When several teaspoonfuls of oil have been added, a small 
Dover egg-beater may be used in place of the wooden spoon, 
or silver' fork, and the oil may be added faster. When the 
mixture becomes too thick to beat well, add a little of the 
acid, then more oil and so on, alternately, until all the ingred- 
ients are used. Add more seasoning if needed. Tarragon 
vinegar is preferable to cider vinegar for some salads. 

SUGGESTIONS REGARDING THB MAKING OP MAYON- 
NAISE DRESSING 

If the yolks do not thicken when beaten with the condi- 
ments, but seem very thin, they will not thicken when the 
.oil is added, and it is better to discard these and try others. 
The teaspoonful of acid, added to the yolks before the addition 
of oil, lessens the liability of the mixture to curdle. This fact 
may be due simply to the increased quantity of material to 
which the oil is added. Experts think that the eggs, bowl, 
spoon and oil should be of the same temperature as the room 
in which the dressing is to be afterwards served. In practice, 
it is safer for a beginner to have the utensils and ingredients 
chilled slightly before beginning operations. Some few let 
the bowl in which the mixing is to be done stand in a dish 
of ice and water during the mixing. If the dressing becomes 
curdled, break a yolk of egg into another bowl, then add to 



238 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

this the curdled dressing, little by little, until all has been 
added, then continue with the oil. Only one yolk of egg need 
be used as the foundation of the sauce, but when two are 
used, there is less liability of the sauce separating. In mak- 
ing a large quantity of mayonnaise, cut down the number 
of yolks one-half or even less, but retain the same proportions 
of the other ingredients. 

WHITE MAYONNAISE SAUCE 

Prepare the mayonnaise with lemon juice instead of vine- 
gar, and when ready to serve fold into a dressing made of one 
pint of oil, a ctip of whipped cream, and a few grains of salt 
and pepper. Use double cream ; whip until solid and measure 
after whipping. 

GREEN MAYONNAISE 

(for fish and cold lamb) 

Cook together a cup of peas, two or three leaves, each, of 
mint and lettuce, a root of spinach, and a sprig of parsley, 
until the peas are tender. Drain and press through a fine 
sieve. If the pulp be moist, cook and stir until dry. When 
cold add to mayonnaise dressing, using such quantity as is 
needed to secure the tint desired. Omit the mint leaves, 
when the sauce is for fish. 

RED MAYONNAISE 

Cook a can of tomato pur^e — cooked tomatoes strained — 
until reduced to two tablespoonfuls. Add when cold to 
mayonnaise dressing, using such quantity as is needed to se- 
cure the desired tint. 

JELLY MAYONNAISE 

To a cup of mayonnaise dressing beat in gradually from 
two tablespoonfuls to one-third a cup of chilled but liquid 
aspic-jelly, (see page 273). 

SAUCE TARTARE 

To a pint of mayonnaise sauce, made with tarragon vinegar 
and mustard, add a shallot chopped fine, one-iourth a cup, 



BOILED SALAD DRESSING 239 

each, of fine-chopped capers, olives, and cucumber pickles, 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, and half a teaspoonftd 
of powdered tarragon. Half a teaspoonful of onion juice 
may take the place of the shallot. 

COOKED SAUCE FOR CHICKEN SALAD (MRS. ARMS, OHIO) 

1-2 a cup of well reduced chicken 1-2 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

stock. 

1-2 a cup of vinegar. Yolks of five eggs. 

1-4 a cup of mixed mustard. 1-2 a cup of oil. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of sweet cream. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the salt, pepper and mustard ; 
cook over hot water in the chicken stock and vinegar, until the 
mixture coats the spoon. When cold and ready to serve beat 
the oil into the sauce with a whisk and fold in the cream beaten 
stiff with a Dover egg-beater. Less mustard may be used. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY, BOSTON) 

I tablespoonful of mustard. i cup of vinegar. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. i cup of sweet or sour cream. 

1-4 a cup of butter. 3 beaten eggs. 

I tablespoonful of salt. A few grains of cayenne. 

Cream together the butter, sugar, and spices; add the 
beaten eggs and cook in the hot cream; when the mixture 
begins to thicken, add the vinegar, a few drops at a time, until 
all is used. Beat the mixture constantly and remove from 
the water, occasionally, to avoid overheating. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

(for tomatoes, cauliflower, meat or fish) 

Mix one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth a teaspoon- 
ftil of mustard, and a few grains of cayenne. Add the yolks 
of two eggs and the white of one ; beat until well mixed, then 
add four tablespoonfuls of butter and three-fourths a cup of 
sweet cream. Stir and cook over hot water until thickened 
slig^htly, then gradually add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 
set aside to become thoroughly chilled. 



340 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PRUSSIAN SAUCE (MRS. WHEELOCK, MINNEAPOLIS) 

(for hot and cold meats) 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a cup of German prepared 

I - 2 a cup of butter. mustard . 

1-2 a cup of white sour wine. 1-2 a cup of yolks of eggs. 

1-2 a cup of vinegar. 1-2 a cup of broth or water. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix and heat all the ingredients, except the eggs, in a double 
boiler, over the fire; beat the eggs, dilute with the hot mix- 
ture, and cook in the saucepan until like cream, beating the 
mixture constantly. 

UNCLASSIFIED SAUCES 

BREAD SAUCE 

1-2 a cup of fine, stale breadcrumbs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 
I onion stuck with six cloves. 1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cook the breadcrumbs with all the ingredients, except the 
butter, about an hour in a double boiler. When ready to 
serve, remove the onion and cloves, add the butter and beat 
thoroughly. Pour over roast birds or egg timbales, then 
sprinkle the whole with breadcrumbs browned in butter. The 
breadcrumbs may be prepared by pressing pieces of bread 
from the centre of the loaf through a colander. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE, COLD 

(for broiled fish) 

Pare and grate two cucumbers; drain, season with salt, 
cayenne, and vinegar or lemon juice. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE ^ 

(for roast and boiled beef, etc.) 

To the recipe for bread sauce add half a cup of Iresh- 
grated horseradish just before removing from the fire. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

Scald one pint of cream; add one-fourth a cup of fresh- 
grated horseradish and half a teaspoonful of salt; mix and 
serve. 



MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 241 

HORSERADISH SAUCE NO. 2 

(for fish-balls, fish, meat, btc.) 

Scald half a cup of fresh-grated horseradish in a cup of stock, 
or water; dilute three beaten egg yolks with a cup of cream 
and cook in the first mixture until the spoon becomes coated ; 
add half a teaspoonful of salt. 

CHERRY SAUCE 

(for lamb) 

Cook a pint of cherries in a pint of water with two cloves 
until soft ; pass through a sieve, return the pulp and juice to 
the fire, and, when boiling, pour little by little over two table- 
spoonfuls of flour beaten into two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
return to the fire and cook five or six minutes after boiling 
begins; add a few grains of salt and the juice of a lemon. 
Serve hot. 

MINT SAUCE 

(for lamb) 

1 bunch of mint. The juice of one lemon or 
1-4 a cup of boiling water. 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. A few grains of cayenne. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Chop the leaves from the bunch of mint very fine ; pour over 
the water, add the sugar, cover closely, and let stand in a cool 
place half an hour; then add the lemon juice or vinegar. If 
lemon juice be used, omit half of the sugar. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

(for boiled meats or fish) 

Cream one-fourth a cup of butter; add half a teaspoonful 
of salt, a dash of pepper, half a tablespoonful of fine-chopped 
parsley, and three-fourths a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
very slowly. The heat of the meat or fish will dissolve the 
butter. 



242 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ANCHOVY BUTTER 

(for mackerel or other fish broiled, or to add to a 

MELTED BUTTER SAUCE FOR FISH) 

Cream half a cup of butter; add to it, gradually, two table- 
spoonfuls of essence of anchovies and the juice of half a lemon. 
Remove the fish to a warm platter, spread the anchovy butter 
over the fish, and garnish with slices of lemon dipped in 
chopped parsley. 

LOBSTER BUTTER 

(for halibut or other white fish, broiled, or to add 
TO melted butter to serve with fish, or to mask 

A FISH TO be served COLD) 

Pound the spawn of a lobster with half a pound of butter 
and pass it through a very fine sieve; season with salt and 
pepper and set aside for use. 

GREEN BUTTER 

(same use as lobster butter) 

1-4 a pound of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of very fine- 

1-8 a peck of spinach. chopped parsley. 

2 teaspoonfuls of very fine-chopped capers. 

Press the spinach, boiled and drained thoroughly, through 
a cheesecloth. Beat the butter to a cream, gradually, add the 
spinach, parsley, and capers. 

BLACK BUTTER (BUERRE NOIR) 

(for FISH, POACHED EGGS, ETC.) 

Cook half a cup (four ounces) of fresh table butter in a fry- 
ing-pan until it assumes a deep golden color, skim, cook a 
moment or two longer, then pour off the top, discarding the 
dark sediment. This is also made with parsley, a tablespoon- 
ful of leaves, washed, dried, and divided into tiny bits, being 
added for each ounce of butter. Add the parsley when the 
butter begins to color; cook until the parsley is crisp. 



APPLE SAUCE WITH HORSERADISH 243 

CLARIFIED BUTTER 

(for boiled fish, asparagus, cauliflower, etc.) 

Put half a pound of butter in a saucepan over a slow fire, 
let boil very gently, skimming occasionally, for about half an 
hour without discoloring, then pour the clear liquid from the 
sediment. 

MARINADE (GOUFFE) 

(to marinate beep a la mode, breast op mutton, 

chops, etc.) 

I pound of raw ham, half lean, half fat, cut in pieces; put into a 

frying pan with — 
4 bay leaves. 6 ounces of carrots. 

I sprig of thyme. 2 ounces of parsley. 

6 ounces of onions (2 small onions) . 2 cloves of garlic. 
6 ounces of butter. (3-4 a cup of oil may be used) . 

Cook together, stirring, meanwhile, to prevent burning; then 
add two quarts, each, of water and vinegar; let boil about 
two minutes; add three ounces (about one-third a cup) of salt 
and one ounce (two tablespoonfuls) of pepper, and store in 
fruit jars. 

CHANTILLY APPLE SAUCE WITH HORSERADISH 

(for ducks and geese, particularly young ducks 

AND goslings) 

Cook a pound (five apples of medium size) of apples, cored 
and quartered, with a very little hot water (they need be quite 
dry when cooked) and pass through a fine sieve; add to the 
pulp two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one-fourth a cup 
of grated horseradish and, when mixed together, fold in an 
equal bulk of whipped cream. 

ENGLISH APPLE SAUCE WITH HORSERADISH 

(for salted and smoked meats) 

Prepare as before, having the apple-pulp very dry; omit 
the cream and add the juice of one or two oranges, then reheat 
without boiling. 



CHAPTER VIII 

Complex Meat and Fish Dishes: Entrees, 

Rechauffes, etc- 

" It was a rye loaf, or rather a pye made in the form of a loaf, for 
it enclosed some salmon highly seasoned with pepper." — Cook. 

An entree is a dish served at dinner or luncheon between 
the regular courses. Some entries are served hot and others, 
from preference, cold or iced. As entries are served from the 
side, they are often shaped in individual portions; if not so 
shaped, they are separated into portions before they are 
passed. Meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, and, occasionally, fruit 
may form the foundation of an entree. Uncooked meat or fish 
is often used in these dishes, but there is no place in cookery, 
where the cook has such an opportunity to display her skill, 
as in the preparation of entrees from materials left over from 
other dishes. As meats and fish lOvSe flavor in recooking, 
bioth or stock to heighten flavor is almost a sine qua non, 
both in the composition of the dish itself and in the sauce with 
which it is served. Standard broth gives the best results, 
but broth carefully made from odds and ends of well-selected 
material is not to be despised. As a means to this same end 
the appropriate use of celery-salt or pepper, curry-powder, 
tabasco-sauce, a "faggot," onion, and marinades are to be 
commended. But, in reality, success in this branch of the 
culinary art depends largely upon the manner in which the 
fundamental ingredients are handled, and especially is this 
the case in the composition of rechauffes. 

Meat or fish that has once been cooked must of necessity 
be treated therefore most delicately. As for these the process 
is one of reheating, further cooking needs be avoided. It is 
well to remember the following items: 

244 



COMPLEX DISHES, ETC. 245 

(ist) That whenever vegetable, sauce, etc., is to be added 
to cooked fish or meat, it must be thoroughly cooked before 
being combined with these ingredients for reheating. 

(2nd) That cooked proteid substance while reheating must 
be protected in some way from direct contact with the heat 
of the oven, fat or fire: as, for instance, with sauce, buttered . 
crumbs, egg and breadcrumbs, pastry cases, etc. 

(3rd) That the more finely these cooked substances be 
divided, the shorter the time needed in reheating and the 
more readily will they absorb sauce or whatever is to give 
them flavor. 

(4th) That all bone, gristle, unsightly or unedible portions 
need be carefully trimmed away before cooked fish or meat 
is chopped or otherwise divided. 

(5th) That, in chopping, the material is to be cut into tan- 
gible bits, not mashed, and, in slicing or cutting into cubes, the 
divisions are to be uniformlv and neatlv made. 

For convenience and to insure a better understanding of 
the subject, hot entries may be considered under four div- 
isions, and the various cold entries, such as chaudfroids, 
aspics, etc. in a class by themselves, as: 

1. Simple salpicon (ragout) mixtures, or chopped mixtures 
(either uncooked or rechauffd). Served in borders, etc. 

2. Salpicon or chopped mixtures, enclosed when cold in 
egg and breadcrumbs, pastry, batter, etc., and fried, as 
croquettes, rissoles, fritters, kromeskis. 

3. Pur6es of meat or fish mixed with different proportions 
of egg, cream or sauce, panard, etc., to form soufflds, creams, 
quenelles, mousses, etc. 

4- Dishes composed of small pieces of solid meat trimmed 
to uniform shapes and sizes, as fillets, cutlets, supremes, etc. 

5. Cold entries, as chaudfroids, aspics, etc. 

There are several utensils that simplify to a great extent 
the making of entries. The first in importance is a sharp 
knife of suitable size, then follows a chopping knife, a meat- 
chopper, a mortar and pestle, and a pur^e sieve and wooden 
spoon. But, in accordance with the bon-mot of Motley, one 
might be inclined to do without a sharp knife or a chopping- 



246 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

knife, to indulge in the luxury of a meat-chopper, if an)rthing 
so useful and saving of time and strength can be called a 
luxury. 

In selecting sharp knives of various sizes, the best French 
knives are the cheapest in the end. If a knife will not take 
and hold an edge, it is worthless. The "quick cut " chopping- 
knives made in Canton, Ohio, on account of their shape, are 
easily cleansed and have more cutting surface than those of 
other make. They are made of good steel. In meat-choppers, 
one that cuts clean rather than crushes the meat is the kind 
to purchase. Some machines are so made that with them 
meat may be cut in large or small pieces. The knife of the 
Enterprise chopper may be resharpened or an old knife re- 
placed by a new. Pur^e sieves come in different sizes; the 
size of mesh in the sieve cloth varies according to the use for 
which it is designed. A sieve with twenty-eight holes to the 
linear inch is needed for sifting icing sugar. A twelve-mesh 
sieve, or twelve-holes to the linear inch, is adapted to sifting 
purees and marmalades, and an eight-mesh for breadcrumbs. 



SALPICON OR CHOPPED MIXTURES SERVED PLAIN 

OR IN BORDERS, ETC. 

These mixtures (see Salpicon, Chapter IV) may be prepared 
of one or several kinds of meat. In addition, a few bits of 
cooked ham or bacon, also calves', lambs' or chickens' liver 
may be included at discretion. We may have also a brown 
or a white mixture. The proportions are one cup of sauce 
to each half-pound (one cup, solid measure) of meat or fish. 
In detail, for a brown mixture, peel and chop fine half a small 
onion (slice of larger size is enough) and a mushroom if con- 
venient; saut^ in two tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping 
(that from the top of the soup-kettle preferred), until lightly 
browned; sprinkle in two tablespoonfuls of flour and con- 
tinue cooking until of a hght brown color, then add gradually 
one cup of stock or water, beating the sauce smooth between 
each addition of liquid ; let boil five minutes, then, when the 



PUREE SIEVES AND PESTLE 




TURKEY RECHAUFFE 247 

sauce has cooled a little, add the meat chopped or divided 
according to the directions given at the beginning of the chap- 
ter, and reheat without boiling. If the meat be in slices, and 
particularly if it be lamb, mutton or venison, it may stand to 
advantage in a marinade (see Chapter IV, page 28) an hour 
or two before reheating. Then use the strained marinade as 
a part of the liquid of the sauce. 

When a curried dish is called for, saut^ with the onion half 
a sour apple, a few green gooseberries or a piece of rhubarb ; 
add th^ curry-powder (a. tablespoonful or less according to 
taste) with the flour and continue cooking eight or ten min- 
utes before adding the cup of stock. Half a cup of almond 
or cocoanut-milk is considered by many as an improvement 
to dishes of curry. To prepare the nut milk, scald the pounded 
nuts in milk, then strain forcibly through a cheesecloth. When 
other acids are not at hand, a little currant-jelly with lemon 
juice gives the sweetish-sour taste considered so essential in 
a properly concocted curry. Let the meat stand over hot 
water some little time in the curry-sauce, to take up the flavor 
of the sauce. Serve in a rice border (see Cooking of Rice, 
page 331). For white salpicon or chopped mixture, proceed 
in the same manner, without browning the vegetables or flour, 
and use milk or white stock as the liquid. Below are given 
recipes showing a few of the countless variations in serving 
these dishes. 

TURKEY RECHAUFFE 

With pastry-bag and rose-tube fashion potato roses around 
the inside of a dish that will stand the heat of the oven. Use 
hot potato, either duchess or plain mashed. Brush over the 
potato with an egg beaten with a spoonful of milk, add the 
rest of the egg to the sauce in which cold turkey, chopped or 
cut in cubes, is to be reheated. Have the sauce quite con- 
sistent, to avoid running out between the ** roses. " To secure 
this, cut down the quantity of liquid for the sauce, or use 
more flour. Pour the turkey mixture into the centre of the 
dish, cover the top with cracker-crumbs, stirred into melted 
butter, and set the dish into the oven to brown the crumbs. 



248 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

The r^chauff 6 may be brown or white. See preceding para- 
graph. 

MUTTON RECHAUFFE, CREOLE STYLE 

I tablespoonful of chopped green Salt. 

pepper. A grating of horseradish. 

I tablespoonful of chopped onion. i - 2 a teaspoonfvil of lemon juice. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i 1-2 cups of cooked mutton cut 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. in thin slices. 

1 cup of brown stock. i - 2 a cup of tomato pulp- 
Prepare according to previous directions ; reheat the mutton 

in the sauce over hot water and pour over cooked macaroni, 
blanched and drained. Let stand in the open oven long 
enough for the macaroni to become hot, then serve at once. 

CREAMED CORNED BEEF AU GRATIN 

2 cups of cold corned beef, cut in 1-4 a cup of flour. 

cubes. 2 cups of milk. 

2 slices of onion. Paprika to taste. 

I cup of celery leaves or coarse i-a a cup of cracker crumbs. 

stalks cut in pieces. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter 

1-4 a cup of butter. 

Scald the milk with the onion and celery and strain a little 
at a time over the butter, flour, and paprika creamed together; 
stir and cook until smooth and boiling, then cook over hot 
water ten minutes, and strain over the corned beef; turn into 
a buttered gratin dish, stir the cracker-crumbs into the melted 
butter, spread them over the top of the mixture and set the 
dish in the oven long enough to brown the crumbs. Garnish 
with curled celery or celery leaves. 

VICTORIA CHICKEN (BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL) 

1-4 a cup of butter. Salt and paprika. 

1-4 a cup of flour. 11-2 cups of cooked fowl, cut in 

(2 slices of onion) if convenient or cubes. 

(i mushroom) agreeable. i cup of cooked and drained 

I cup of chicken stock. peas, fresh or canned. 

1-2 a cup of tomato pur6e. 

Prepare as usual. Serve in pastry or china cases, tiny cas- 
seroles, bread croustades or on toast. 



MUTTON RECHAUFFE WITH MACARONI 249 

CALF'S HEAD OR MOCK TERRAPIN (ALLEN M. CHANDLER) 

Calf's head and brains. i cup of cream. 

Black and cayenne pepper. i - 2 a cup of butter. 

2 blades of mace. 4 tablespoonfuls of floto 

4 eggs (hard boiled) . i cup of sherry wine. 

I cup of broth. 

Steam or simmer the well-cleaned head and brains, tied in 
a cloth, of a calf until the meat is tender — the brains will cook 
in twenty minutes — it should then be set aside in a covered 
dish. Remove the head meat from the bones and when cold 
cut in small pieces, spread on a dish and season with the 
pepper. Melt the butter, add the flour and cook until frothy, 
then. gradually add the broth and cream and stir until the 
sauce boils; then add the pieces of meat, the brains, also sepa- 
rated into pieces, and the eggs (cooled in cold water and cut 
in slices). Let simmer until all are well heated, then remove 
from the fire, add the wine and serve in a hot dish. 

MEAT RECHAUFFE WITH CURRY AND TURKISH PILAF 

1-4 a cup of butter. 11-2 cups of stock. 

a slices of onion. i - 2 a cup of almond milk. 

1 clove of garlic. 2 tablespoonfuls of currant jelly. 
1-4 a cup of flour. i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder. 2 cups of thin sliced meat. 

Prepare as usual and reheat over hot water. Serve inside 
a border of plain boiled rice or of Turkish pilaf . The pilaf may 
be shaped with a spoon, or in a border mould. For the latter, 
press the cooked rice into a buttered mould, let stand ten 
minutes in the oven, then invert on the serving-dish. (For 
Rice and Turkish Pilaf see page 332.) 

MUTTON RECHAUFFE WITH MACARONI 

3-4 a cup of macaroni. i pint, generous measure, of to« 

I pint of cold lamb or mutton in mato sauce, 

slices. 1-3 a cup cf butter. 

I cup of cracker ci*umbs. 

Use the trimmings and bones in making stock for the tomato 
sauce. In a buttered au gratin dish alternate the layers of 



2SO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

macaroni and meat dressed with the sauce: mix the crumbs 
with the melted butter and spread over the last layer, which 
should have sauce above. Set into the oven long enough to 
brown the crumbs. 

HARICOT OR RAGOUT OF MUTTON (UNCOOKED MEAT) 

3 pounds of mutton (neck or breast) i sprig of thyme. 

2 ounces (1-4 a cup) of butter. A bay leaf. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i clove. 

I clove of garlic. Potatoes. 

I onion. Salt. 

4 sprigs of parsley. 

Cut the mutton in pieces two inches long and one inch wide 
and saut6 in the butter until well browned, then stir in the 
flour and, when blended with the butter, add cold water to 
cover; add also the seasonings, the onion whole, and the garlic 
chopped fine. Let simmer until nearly tender, stirring occas- 
sionally; add the potatoes, pared, quartered and cut in the 
shape of an orange carpel, having about as many pieces of 
potato as of meat, and let simmer until the potatoes are tender. 
Serve the pieces of meat in the middle of the dish, the potatoes 
around, and the liquid, from which the fat has been removed, 
over the whole. Prepare other meats, as veal, chicken, and 
rabbit, in the same manner. 

II 

SALPICON OR CHOPPED MIXTURES, COOLED THEN FRIBD. 
PROTECTED BY CRUMBS OR BATTER, ETC. 

CROQUETTIP.S 

The object to be desired in croquette mixtures, besides 
flavor, is a consistency of such firmness as will allow the shap- 
ing of the mixture easily when cold, and yet will insure a soft 
and creamy mass when heated. This condition may be best 
secured by using veal or chicken stock in the sauce which 
forms the foundation of all these dishes. Stock made from 
veal or chicken is rich in gelatine, and, thus, a liquid when hot, 
it becomes a firm jelly easy to handle when cold. The sauce 



CHICKEN AND SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES 251 

for these mixtures is to be prepared according to the directions 
given under division I. To the sauce is added the materials 
to be used, one or more in kind, chopped or cut small, not 
crushed. Yolks of eggs and cream are added for richness or 
additional nutriment, but most delicious croquettes may be 
made without either in the body of the mixture; eggs, how- 
ever, are needed to make a fat-proof covering. After the 
meat or vegetable has been stirred into the sauce, set aside in 
a shallow dish to become cold. To shape, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry, see Chapter IV, pages 25-27. 

RECIPES 

CHICKEN AND SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES 

1-4 a cup of butter. i egg. 

1-2 a cup of flour. Salt and paprika. 

I cup of milk or i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

I cup of chicken stock seasoned i pair of sweetbreads and chick - 
with vegetables and herbs. en to make one pint in all. 

1-3 a cup of cream. 

If a richer flavor than the stock gives be desired, cook a 
slice of onion and a mushroom or two in the butter to be used 
in making the sauce. Add the egg, two yolks are better than 
the whole egg, just before the meat, and do not boil the sauce 
after the egg is added. 

This same formula may be used with any kind of meat or 
combinations of meat, or with fish, shell-fish or vegetables, 
all having been previously cooked. 

Oysters need be carefully drained after parboiling, then 
when cold, cut in small pieces, and drained again. 

If the oyster liquor be used instead of chicken or veal stock, 
a teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in a little of the liquor, will 
be of help in shaping the croquettes. Add the last half-cup 
of meat at discretion. Each bit of meat should be surrounded 
by a creamy sauce, but often the full pint is not required. 
Serve wth vegetables, as green peas or asparagus-tips, or with 
a sauce, as Bechamel or mushroom. 



252 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



MACARONI, CELERY, ASPARAGUS-TIPS, CAULIFLOWER, 
MUSHROOM AND GREEN PEA CROQUETTES 

The above are among the vegetables most successfully 
served in croquettes; all should be perfectly cooked and 
drained. The macaroni, celery, mushrooms, and cauliflower 
are to be cut into small bits, then mixed with sauce. Tomato- 
sauce and cheese are admissible as the foundation of all cro- 
quettes save those made of green peas. Chicken stock is 
preferable with asparagus. Serve with tomato, white, Becha- 
mel or Hollandaise sauce. 

The formula is the same as that given for chicken-and- 
sweetbread croquettes. Add the cheese before the vegetable, 
that the heat of the sauce may melt it ; the quantity is largely 
a matter of taste ; one tablespoonful to half a cup when a pro- 
nounced flavor is called for. Parmesan cheese should be 
given preference, but American factory cheese will prove quite 
satisfactory. 

CUTLETS OF SWEETBREAD 

Cut in small cubes one or two pairs of parboiled-and-cooled 
sweetbreads, and add cubes of cooked red tongue and chopped 
cooked mushrooms to make a pint in all. Bind together with 
about a cup and a half of thick white sauce, to which have 
been added the yolk of an egg^ a grating of nutmeg, a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and a tablespoonful of fine-chopped 
parsley. When cold form into cutlet shapes, egg-and-bread 
crumb and fry in deep fat. 

VEAL CROQUETTES 

One set of calf's brains. Scant 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I sweetbread. A few grains of cayenne. 

Cold veal to make i pint in all. 1-2 a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

I cup of veal stock. 1-2 a teaspoonful of onion juice, 

1-2 a cup of cream. i egg. 

1-4 a cup of butter. Fine-chopped parsley. 

1-2 a cup of flour. Fgg and bread crumbs. 

Serve with white sauce, to which has been added the other 



KROMESKIS 253 

sweetbread cut in cubes; or with mushroom sauce or vege- 
tables k la jardiniere. 

CHICKEN CUTLETS, PARKER HOUSE STYLE 

Prepare a croquette mixture, using the formula given for 
chicken and sweetbread croquettes, but omitting the sweet- 
breads at choice. Form the chilled mixture into cutlet shapes, 
dip into a yolk of egg, beaten and diluted with one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter to each yolk of egg, then into fine bread- 
crumbs, dispose on a buttered baking-pan, agate preferred, 
and reheat in a hot oven. Pipe a duchess potato mixture onto 
the edge of the cutlets, brush with beaten yolk of egg and 
reheat in the oven; fill the open centres with buttered peas 
or asparagus-tips. The asparagus-tips may be mixed with 
Hollandaise sauce. Note that the yolks of eggs only are used 
in egging and that the cutlets are not double breaded. 

RISSOLES 

Rissoles are made by enclosing a croquette mixture in 
pastry and, after brushing the surface with beaten egg, frying 
in deep fat. Occasionally rissoles are baked instead of fried. 
The paste is preferably pufE-paste ; the trimmings of a vol-au- 
vent or patties are often so used. The pastry is rolled very 
thin, about one-eighth of an inch thick to insure thorough 
cooking. The croquette mixture needs be cold and the pastry 
chilled. Put a teaspoonful of the chilled mixture on the 
crust in several places in a line, near the edge, and fold the 
pastry over mixture. Cut out half-circles of paste with the 
mixture in the centre of each, using a fluted patty-cutter for 
the purpose ; lift the part of the paste folded over the mixture, 
brush the edge with water and press carefully in place again. 
Brush the entire surface with beaten egg, and let cook until 
delicately colored. Serve on a folded napkin. 

KROMESKIS 

Kromeskis are made by enclosing an oyster in a piece of 
bacon, or a croquette mixture, or even a solid piece of meat 
with a little forcemeat or stuffing, in pork caul, then dipping 



iS4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

in batter and frying in deep fat. When croquette mixture, or 
meat with stuffing is used, the outside protection needs be 
folded and secured most carefully. The ends of an oyster 
or mushroom wrapped in bacon may be left open. Several 
kromeskis may be strung on a skewer, and, when fried and 
drained, pushed from it on to a folded napkin ; or, if a silver 
skewer be used, they may be served on the skewer. Fritter 
batter, into which krorheskis are dipped before frying, is 
given on page 272. 

Ill 

SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, CREAM AND QUENELLE 

FORCEMEATS 

This division of made dishes has a counterpart in a similar 
division in sweet dishes, and, also, in vegetable dishes. The 
directions given here for the preparation of meat and fish 
dishes will suffice for both the others. The foundation for 
all meat and fish dishes of this class is a paste, or pur^e of 
meat or fish, either cooked or uncooked. The paste or pur^e 
is lightened to a greater or less degree, according as it is a 
souffld, cream or quenelle forcemeat mixture, by the addition 
of eggs, cream, and sauces, one or all. Of these preparations 
mousses and soufflds are the lightest, and quenelles the most 
compact. Creams form the connecting link between the two. 

SOUFFLES 

Souffles are the lightest form of made dishes: lightness is 
produced by the expansion of air when heated, the air being 
incorporated into eggs by beating. 

In a souffle, pure and simple, nothing is added to the eggs 
but salt or sugar and flavor, but, save in an omelet souffle, 
these are not found in savory dishes. Savory souffles are 
composed of: 

1. A sauce as foundation. 

2. A pur6e of fish, game or meat, etc. 

3. Flavoring, as onion juice, lemon juice, mushroom catsup or 

chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley, celery salt or pepper. 

4. Lightening ingredients as eggs alone or eggs with bread crumbs. 



CHICKEN CUTLETS. PARKER HOUSE STYLE. 



CHICKEN. (See p 



OYSTER SOUFFLE 255 

The number of eggs and the thickness of the foundation 
sauce may vary greatly, thus producing soufflfe of varying 
grades of consistency, as : two tablespoonf uls of flour and three 
eggs may be used with one-half a cup, one cup or one pint of 
liquid, and one-half a cup, one cup or one pint of meat or 
fish pur6e, respectively. In case of the pint of meat and 
liquid, half a cup of fine breadcrumbs needs be added to the 
sauce. 

As these mixtures in cooking rise to about double their 
bulk, the dish containing them should be half-filled, or a but- 
tered paper band may be securely fastened around the dish 
to add to its height. The paper is removed before sending the 
dish to the table. When served as an entr6e, souffles are baked 
in individual dishes, or in well-oiled and dried paper cases. 
We give below three recipes: an oyster, chicken, lobster or 
any other variety of souffle may be prepared by any one of 
these recipes, as preferred. Bake in a moderate oven or steam 
with water at a very gentle simmer. The time required in 
cooking is from twenty to thirty minutes, in individual cases, 
ten to fifteen minutes. The cooking is completed when the 
centre is firm. Prompt serving is necessary. Souffle are 
always served from the dish in which they are cooked. Serve 
with or without a sauce. Mushroom, Bechamel, tomato or 
w^hite-sauce are to be preferred. 

LOBSTER SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a cup of lobster meat cut 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. in cubes. 

I cup^f milk, lobstef or fish stock. Salt, cayenne, onion juice, pars- 

1 cup of very finely chopped lobster ley . 

meat. Lemon juice, 

3 eggs. 

OYSTER SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 10 drops of onion juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i - 2 a teaspoonful of parsley. 

J- 2 a cup of oyster liquor. Salt and paprika. 

1-2 a cup of oysters. 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms. 



256 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Parboil the oysters, drain and cut in small pieces when cold. 
Strain the liquor and use with the butter and flour in making 
the sauce; add the seasonings, the yolks of the eggs beaten 
until very thick, and when cooked a little add the oysters, and 
fold in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoon fuls of butter. Salt and paprika. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Onion juice. 

I pint of milk or chicken stock or Parsley. 

part of each. Celery salt. 

1-3 a cup of fine bread crumbs. 3 eggs. 

I pint ot fine chopped chicken (cold). 

Make a sauce of the first three ingredients; add the bread- 
crumbs, the chicken (cooked and chopped very fine), the 
yolks of eggs well beaten, and the seasonings; and lastly fold 
in the whites beaten until dry. 

For cheese soufBd see *' What May Be Done with Cheese," 
page 379. 

FORCEMEAT 

Forcemeat is used in many of the choicest entries. It is. 
used either alone or in combination with salpicon. When 
used alone it may be cooked in a border or cylindrical mould, 
in individual timbale moulds, or as quenelles. When com- 
bined in cooking with salpicon it may be used as the lining 
of a large mould, or of individual moulds, with a filling of 
salpicon. 

Of forcemeat there are two varieties, cream fSrcenteat. 
very delicate in composition, and quenelle forcemeat, in which 
a bread or flour panada adds firmness to the preparation. 
Raw pulp of meat, or fish scraped from the fibre, pounded 
smooth in a mortar and passed through a pur^e sieve, is the 
foundation of the cream forcemeat. The meat or fish pulp, 
prepared as before, mixed with panada, and passed a second 
time through the sieve, is the foundation of quenelle forcemeat. 
As the pulp must be forcibly pressed through the pur6e sieve, 
the sieve must stand very firmly. A sieve fitted tightly into 



FISH CREAM FORCEMEAT 357 

the lower part of a double-boiler has proved a good arrange- 
ment f(5r home use. The pur^e needs be scraped from time 
to time from the lower part of the sieve. 

CHICKEN Cream forcemeat (ranhofer) 

1-2 a pound of chicken (white meat) . i pint of whipped cream or 

5 ounces of butter (1-2 cup and 2 1-3 a pint of doubled cream 

tablespoonfuls) . whipped 

I whole egg and Salt. 

4 yolks of eggs or Nutmeg. 

4 whites of eggs. Pepper 

Scrape the flesh of the chicken from the fibre and pound it 
in a mortar to a smooth pulp, adding a little white of egg 
occasionally, to facilitate the process; return the pulp to the 
mortar and pound into it, gradually, the butter and the eggs ; 
add the seasonings and set the mixture onto the ice. When 
chilled beat thoroughly and add to it slowly the whipped 
cream. Shape a little of the forcemeat into a half-inch ball 
and poach nearly ten minutes in water just **off the boil." 
If too firm add more cream. If not sufficiently consistent, 
add a little more egg. ' Dark meat of chicken, game, firm fish, 
turkey, or veal, may be substituted for the chicken. 

CHICKEN FORCEMEAT WITH WHITE-SAUCE 

Same as above, using three-fourths a cup of cold white 
sauce made with thin cream in the place of the cream. 

FISH CREAM FORCEMEAT (RANHOFER) 

I pound of honed and skinned bass The whites of two eggs. 
or other firm fish. 6 to 8 gills (3 to 4 cups) 

Salt, nutmeg and red pepper. of cream. 

Pound the fish in a mortar, after running it through a meat- 
chopper several times, or scrape the pulp from the fibre and 
1^w[i6. it in a mortar; beat in gradually the whites of the 
eggs, pass through a sieve and add the cream, beaten stiff, 
gradually. Poach a small ball and rectify as needed with 
ereaxn or white of egg. 



2s8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

QUENELLE FORCEMEAT (MALLOCK) 

 

8 oz. (i cup) of meat or fish pur^e. i egg. 

4 oz. (i-2 a cup) of flour panada. i tablespoonful of cream. 

I oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) of butter. 

The pur6e is measured after pounding and sifting; add the 
panada and continue pounding, adding, meanwhile, the other 
ingredients. This gives a very firm forcemeat, 

QUENELLE FORCEMEAT, No. 2 (DELICATE) 

1 cup of raw meat or fish pur^e. 1-3 a cup of butter. 
1-2 a cup of panada The whites of 3 eggs or 

(flour or bread),. The yolks of 3 eggs 

I cup of cream whipped. 

Prepare in the same manner as aboVe, pressing through the 
sieve a second time, before adding the cream. 

FLOUR PANADA 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Few grains of salt. 
1-2 a cup of boiling water. i egg. 

1-2 a cup of flour. 

Melt the butter in the boiling water; when again boiling 
stir in the sifted flour and continue stirring until the mixture 
leaves the sides of the pan ; let cook a few moments, keeping it 
in motion to avoid burning; remove from the fire and beat 
into it one raw egg; cover and cool before using. 

BREAD PANADA 

Soak white bread, free from crust, in cold water to cover, 
until well softened. Then turn into a napkin and press oul 
the water. Add milk or white-stock. Cook and stir, until a 
paste is formed that clings together and leaves the sides of th 
pan. Cook a few moments, then beat in one egg. 

TO MOULD AND COOK FORCEMEATS 

Butter the mould very thoroughly, ornament, if desires 
with pieces of truffle, red beef tongue, half -cooked carro 
chopped ham, parsley, truffles, or sifted yolk of egg, or lobst 
coral, as is appropriate. Fill the mould by means of a. forcinj 



CHICKEN TIMBALES 259 

bag and plain tube held inside and close to the surface. If a 
spoon be used, hit the mould sharply against the table several 
times while filling, to cause the mixture to settle evenly in the 
vessel, otherwise creases will appear to mar the appearance 
of the dish when cooked. If the forcemeat is to be used as a 
lining and the centre filled with a salpicon, press the meat 
against the sides of the mould to a depth of about three- 
eighths an inch for individual timbales, to a full inch, for a 
large mould. Make the lining of a large mould considerably 
thicker near the top (which will be the bottom when inverted) 
to insure a firm foundation ; fill the centre with salpicon and 
cover the top with forcemeat, making very smooth and even, 
that the timbale may stand even. Set the mould on a trivet 
or fold of paper, in a dish filled to half the height of the mould 
with water just "off the boil." Cook in the oven until the 
centre feels firm, from ten to fifteen minutes for a small mould 
and twenty to thirty minutes for a large mould. On no 
account should the water reach the boiling point. Partially 
invert the mould on a cloth to drain off the liquid, then turn 
the contents onto a serving-dish. While inverting small 
moulds the timbale may be kept in place with a spatula. 
Large moulds need be handled very carefully; it is better to 
take up the liquid that drains from them onto the serving- 
dish than to run the risk of breaking the contents. 

VARIOUS STYLES OF MOULDING FORCEMEAT 

CHICKEN TIMBALES 

Fill the individual timbale moulds, decorated with diamond 
or crescent-shaped bits of truffle, with any of the chicken force- 
meats and poach as directed. Serve with mushroom. Becha- 
mel or AUemand sauce. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES, NO. a 

Line a charlotte russe mould, decorated with figures cut 
from carrot, white of hard-boiled egg and truffle, with 
iforceineat an inch thick, fill the centre with a thick sauce 
^(double the usual quantity of flour and use thick cream in 
part as the liquid) mixed with small quenelles, cooked mush- 






36o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

rooms, and dark meat of the chicken cut in cubes. An un- 
decorated melon mould makes a well shaped timbale. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES, NO. 3 

Cook the forcemeat in a round or oval border mould and 
fill the centre, when unmoulded, with the same salpicon as that 
used above in a thinner sauce, or with sweetbreads cut in 
cubes, chicken quenelles and chopped truffles mixed in a 
white or Bechamel sauce. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES, NO. 4, MOULDS LINED WITH 
/ SPAGHETTI 

Cook full-length pieces of spaghetti until tender, in boiling 
salted water. Have the salted water boiHng and carefully 
put one end of all the pieces into the water together; as the 
spaghetti becomes moist, it may be coiled around into the 
saucepan of water without breaking. Rinse carefully with 
cold water and dispose the pieces at full length on a cloth to 
cool. Thoroughly butter a mould. Moulds with slanting 
sides are more easily lined. Begin at the centre of the bottom 
and coil the spaghetti round and round, adding a little force- 
meat, as a second lining, to hold the spaghetti in place. Fill 
the centre with rings of cooked macaroni (macaroni cut in one- 
fourth inch pieces) or alphabet paste mixed with tomato- 
sauce and cheese, or with, cubes of sweetbread, chicken livers 
mushrooms, or red tongue in a Bechamel sauce. (Note "To 
Mould and Cook Forcemeat," page 258.) Serve with tomato 
or Bechamel sauce. 

FISH TIMBALES 

Same as chicken timbales Nos. 1,2, and 3, substituting fish 
forcemeat for the chicken, and fish quenelles and oysters, 
cubes of lobster meat or picked shrimps, broken in pieces 
and added to white sauce made of fish and oyster or lobster 
stock and cream, for the garnish used with chicken. 

SHELLS OF CHICKEN OR FISH FORCEMEAT 

Press the forcemeat into well-buttered shells sprinkled with 
fine-chopped parsley, ham or truffles, for chicken; -olives, 



CHICKEN'S LEGS AS CUTLETS WITH OLIVES 261 

pickles, capers or lobster coral, for fish forcemeats. Set the 
shells on several folds of paper, pour water around them and 
poach in the oven about twenty minutes. With pastry-bag 
and small plain tube press part of the forcemeat onto a but- 
tered paper forming fluted oblongs about an inch in length 
(quenelles), spread the paper, quetielle side down, in a sauce- 
pan of water just "off the boil" and let poach ten minutes. 
Skim from the water, and add, with small rounds cut from 
slices of cold boiled ham or dark meat of fowl, to a clip of 
yellow Bechamel sauce. Dress the shells, crown fashion, 
on a serving-dish, with the sauce, qUenelles, etc. in the centre. 

CHlCREN^d LfeQS AS CUTLfetS WITH OLIVES 

Remove the tendons and bones from the legs of six young 
chickens, retaining, however, an inch and a half of the drum- 
stick nearest the foot; season inside with salt, pepper, and 
fine herbs, then stuff with chicken quenelle forcemeat made of 
the breast of a part of the chicken. Sew with coarse thread 
leaving the legs in shape. Put them in a flat saucepan, season 
and let simmer until tender, barely covered with stock; let 
partly cool in the stock, then press under a weight. Remove 
the stitches and trim the legs neatly; egg-and-breadcrumb 
and fry in deep fat, or sautd, first on one side and then on the 
other, to a golden brown in melted butter. After draining on 
soft paper, put a frill on the end of each bone, dispose in a 
circle on a, hot dish and fill the centre with stoned olives, filled 
with chicken forcemeat and poached. The olives may be 
stoned, the forcemeat omitted, and the dish heated in water 
brought nearly to the boiling point. Serve with white sauce, 
seasoned with lemon juice and fine-chopped parsley. 

GAMK OR DARK FORCEMEAT WITH MUSHROOMS 

1-2 a pound of game meat or 1-3 a cup of Bechamel sauce. 

dark meat of fowl. i- 2 a cup of mushroom pur6e. 

The white of i egg. 

Chop a pound of fresh mushrooms, cook in butter, until the 
moisture has evaporated, and pound with one-third the quan- 
tity of thick Bechamel ; let cool and mix in gradually to the 



1 



262 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pulp in the mortar, pounding meanwhile: pass through the 
sieve and rectify if needed with cream or white of egg. 

The mixtures for the four following dishes, on account of 
their consistency and manner of preparation, do not belong to 
this class. They are much more easily prepared than force- 
meat preparations and, while they do not possess the smooth- 
ness and delicacy of these almost classical dishes, they are to 
be recommended. Any firm fish may take the place of the 
chicken. 

CUTLETS OF BEEF FORCEMEAT, MACARONI RAGOUT 

1-2 a lb. of raw lean fillet of beef. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1-4 a lb. of lean cooked ham or 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

pickled tongue. 1-2 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

4 ounces of panada. 3 raw eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of thick brown sauce. 

With a pestle pound the raw and cooked meat in a mortar; 
add the panada, sauce and butter, and pound again; then, 
when thoroughly blended, add the seasonings and eggs and 
pound and mix once more; then press through a pur^e sieve, 
scraping the mixture from the under side of the sieve. With 
pastry-bag and tube press the forcemeat into small well-but- 
tered cutlet tins (fifteen will be needed) and smooth the sur- 
face with a knife wet in boiling water. Set the moulds, on 
folds of paper or a trivet, in a shallow baking-pan, add water 
at the boiling point to cover the bottom of the moulds and 
poach in the oven about twenty minutes. Unmould and 
dispose on a border of hot mashed potato, first making alter- 
nate cutlets by dipping them in hot and well-reduced tomato- 
sauce. Fill the centre with macaroni ragout and sprinkle 
with fine-chopped parsley. 

MACARONI RAGOUT 

Reheat a cup of cooked macaroni, half a cup of cooked ham 
or tongue, cut in Juliennes, and a dozen cooked mushroom 
caps in a rich tomato-sauce 



CHICKEM TIMBALBS. ORNAMENTED WITH PAPER AIGRETTES. 



SHELLS OF CHICKEN FORCEMEAT WITH QUENELLES. 



P MACARONI WITH BEEF CUTLETS. 



CHICKEN TIMBALES 263 

SUPREME OF BEEP TENDERLOIN (ADOLPHE MEYER) 

I pound of beef tenderloin. i whole egg. 

1 1-4 cups of panada. Nutmeg, salt, paprika. 

1 1-4 cups of butter. i cup of brown sauce. 

I cup of well-reduced brown sauce. Marrow. Mushrooms. 

3 yolks of eggs. Sweet Red peppers. 

Scrape the beef from the fibres, then pound in a mortar, 
adding while pounding the panada, butter, and reduced 
brown sauce; add the seasonings and the eggs, then pass 
through a fine sieve ; set on ice and beat into it the second cup 
of sauce. With this forcemeat line buttered timbale mould3 
and fill the hollow centres with salpicon of marrow, mush- 
rooms and peppers, cut in small squares, after cooking, and 
mixed with thick brown sauce ; cover the top with a layer of 
the forcemeat, place the moulds on several folds of paper, in 
a dish of hot water, and cook in a slow oven about fifteen 
minutes. Unmould and serve with Spanish sauce. Poach the 
marrow, saut^ and cook the mushrooms, and parboil the 
peppers before cutting them for the sauce. Test the force- 
meat and rectify with sauce, or eggs, as needed before lining 
the moulds. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES (MRS. MCEWEN, OHIO) 

The breasts of 2 raw chickens. A grating of nutmeg. 

I teaspoonful of salt. The whites of three eggs. 

A dash of white pepper. .1 pint of cream. 

Pass the chicken breasts five or six times through a meat- 
chopper; add the seasonings and beat into the mixture, one 
at a time, the unbeaten whites of the eggs, and then very 
gradually the cream. Have small timbale moulds well 
buttered; then put in place round bits of paper, cut to fit the 
bottom of the mould, and butter again ; the moulds should be 
filled to two-thirds of their height, cook as all mixtures on a 
trivet or folded paper, to lift them from the bottom of the 
dish in which they stand surrounded by hot water. Serve, 
turned from the moulds and surrounded with a pint of white 
sauce, in which a cup of chopped or quartered mushrooms 
have been simmering. 



264 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SUPREME OP CHICKEN (MISS WILLIAMS, BOSTON) 

Breast of one raw chicken (i cup) . i pint of cream. 
4 eggs. Salt and pepper. 

Chop the chicken breast fine in a meat-chopper; add an egg 
and beat until smooth, then add the rest of the eggs one at a 
time, beating the mixture after each addition until smooth; 
season with nearly three-fourths a teaspoonful of salt and a 
dash of white pepper. Butter twelve small dariole moulds 
and ornament them with truffles ; fill with the mixture, cover 
with buttered paper and poach about twenty minutes. (See 
general directions for poaching forcemeat, page 258.) Serve 
with Bechamel sauce. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES (COOKED MEAT) (MRS. ELLIOTT 

RUSSELL, BOSTON) 

1 pint of cold cooked chicken i tablespoonful of chopped pars- 

chopped fine. ley 

2 tablespoon fuls of butter. Salt and pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 2 eggs, beaten without separat- 
1-2 a cup of chicken stock. ing 

Melt the butter, add the bread-crumbs, then the stock; let 
boil, then add the chicken, parsley, salt and pepper, and the 
eggs. Bake in buttered timbale moulds, filled to tWo-thirds 
their height, twenty minutes. Let the moulds stand while 
cooking on a trivet or thick fold of papef 4 Serve with the 
following: 

SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. i sprig of parsley. 

I tablespoonful , each of 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

chopped onion and carrot. 1 pint of stock. 

I bay leaf. Salt and pepper. 

Cook the onion, carrot, bay leaf and parsley in the butter 
ten minutes and add the flour, salt, and pepper; when frothy 
add the stock gradually, and let simmer ten minutes aftef 
all the stock is added ; strain around the timbales. 

ROMAN PUDDING 

Line a buttered mould with boiled macaroni. The large 
fluted macaroni, cut in rings and strips, gives an ornamental 



PALMETTES 265 

mould. Cook one-fourth a cup of breadcrumbs in three- 
fourths a cup of milk ; add two tablespoonf uls of butter, a cup 
of cold chicken chopped fine, two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
ham, and one tablespoonful of fine-chopped green pepper, 
salt, pepper, and onion juice to taste, and two well-beaten 
eggs; turn into the buttered mould and bake standing in a 
pan of water until firm. Serve with tomato or brown-sauce, 
flavored with a few gratings of horseradish and a teaspoonful 
of lemon juice. Serve a few bits of macaroni in the sauce. 

MOUSSE OR MOUSSELINE 

The form of forcemeat called mousse is made very delicate 
by the use of a large quantity of whipped cream. On account 
ot its delicacy it is usually cooked in small moulds called 
mousse and sometimes bomb moulds. The bottoms of these 
moulds are of such a shape that in use they need be set 
in timbale moulds. The mixture is also poached in buttered 
rings standing on heavy buttered paper, or in heart-shaped 
bottomless moulds, made of half-inch bands of tin about three 
inches long, standing on buttered paper. 

FORCEMEAT FOR MOUSSE OR MOUSSELINE 

1 pound of chicken, white meat. 1-2 a cup of cream forcemeat. 
The "white of one egg. 1 quart of whipped cream. 

I cup of Bechamel sauce. Salt, red pepper and mace. 

The cream is measured after whipping and draining. Pre- 
pare and rectify as other forcemeat. 

QUAIL MOUSSELINE 

Substitute quail for chicken in the recipe given above and 
cook in moulds decorated with pistachio nuts and truffles. 
Serve Tvith Bechamel or cream sauce, to which chopped truffles 
have been added. 

PALMETTES 

Poacb a chicken mousse preparation in buttered palmette 
moulds set on folded paper less than t^n minutes; drain, 
egg-and-breadcrumb and fry in deep fat. Drain on soft 



266 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

paper. Serve with green peas or asparagus-tips, or a delicate 
sauce. Quenelle forcemeat and cream forcemeat, half and 
half, may be used for this dish. Palmettes so made are more 
easily handled than those made from a mousse mixture. 

IV 

HOT DISHES COMPOSED OF SMALL PIECES OP SOLID 
MEAT, AS BONED CUTLETS AND SUPREMES 

This class of meat and fish dishes calls for neatness and 
accuracy in treatment. To insure success one should possess 
accuracy of eye and a steady hand combined with experience. 
The dealer is usually quite well satisfied, if he cuts chops of 
about the same thickness : and he could not be trusted to fillet 
the breast of a chicken. If this or similar work be required, it 
needs be done at home and time allotted to it. 

Dishes of this class are favored for entries or for luncheon 
dishes. When neatly fashioned, dressed crown shape or in 
straight rows, one overlapping another, with an appropriate 
accompaniment of purde, small vegetables, sauce or salpicon, 
they present a sightly appearance. Chops served unboned, 
though treated similarly, are not included in this division on 
account of the presence of bone. Among the materials thus 
used the most important are fillets of fish, which are fully 
treated in the chapter on fish, the fillet of beef, the **best 
end of the loin " of lamb, mutton or veal, a slice of veal from 
the fillet, the breast of fowl or birds, removed according to 
directions given on page 170, sweetbreads, calf's liver and 
brains. 

FILLET OF BEEF 

The fillet of beef is cut into individual fillets, crosswise the 
grain of the meat into grenadins, minions, noisettes, pau- 
piettes, etc. In trimming the fillet, before cutting into any 
of these shapes — everything but solid meat is removed — 
i.e., all skin and fat. 

FILLETS OF BEEF WITH MARROW 

Have eight or ten pieces nearly one inch thick cut from 
a fillet of beef; broil as any steak, or saut6 in a very little hot 



MINIONS OF BEEF TENDERLOIN 267 

butter six or eight minutes ; the fillets should be left quite rare. 
Split two marrow bones, take out the marrow whole and cut 
in as many slices as fillets; let stand an hour in cold water, 
then place in boiling salted water and let stand ten minutes 
without boiling. Pour a brown sauce, well flavored, on the 
serving-dish, arrange the fillets upon this, season with salt 
and pepper, and dispose a slice of marrow upon each fillet. , 

GRENADINS OF TENDERLOIN, BEAUMARCHAIS STYLE 

Cut lengthwise from a well-trimmed tenderloin of beef half- 
he;art-shaped pieces*, five by two and one-half inches, and half 
an inch thick. Beat these lightly with a wet cutlet bat, and 
with a sharp knife trim neatly to an exact pattern laid on the 
meat. Lard on one side with rows of fine lardoons, season 
with salt and pepper, and saut^ in oil or clarified butter four 
minutes on the larded side and the same length of time on the 
other. For plain grenadins, remove from the pan and serve 
with clear beef gravy (standard broth) poured over them. 
To serve Beaumarchais style, drain off or add to the butter in 
the pan as needed, add a teaspoonful or more of fine-chopped 
blanched-and-drained shallot arid saut^ without coloring; add 
fiour, stock, and seasonijig as needed, also egg yolks and lemon 
juice, and strain onto a serving-dish: sprinkle with fine- 
chopped parsley and arrange the grenadins above, one over- 
lapping another, straight down the dish, surround with crous- 
tades, equal to the number of grenadins, filled with mush- 
rooms stewed in cream. 

MINIONS OF BEEP TENDERLOIN 

Cut a well-trimmed fillet of beef into slices, each weighing 
about five ounces ; with a wet cutlet bat or bread knife beat 
them lig^htly to the same thickness, then lay a pattern on each 
and 'With a sharp knife' cut into perfect rounds ; dip these in 
oil or melted butter and broil over a moderate fire from six 
to ten minutes, as they are to be cooked rare or well done. 
Dress on a hot dish and pour clear gravy over them. 



?68 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



MINIONS OP BEEF A LA DUMAS 

Prepare and cook as above and lay each on a round slice 
of cooked beef tongue (unsmoked). Let the sHces of tongue 
be less than half an inch thick and of the same diameter as 
the minions. Heat an equal quantity of onion puree and 
white sauce made with stock and thicken with egg yolki 
diluted with cream. Cover the minions with the sauce— 
which should be thick, — spread with breadcrumbs and grated 
Parmesan cheese mixed with melted butter and brown in a 
very hot oven. Garnish the serving-dish, with tiny crescent- 
shaped, ham-and-mushroom croquettes (see Croquettes, 
page 251). In the croquettes use equal weights of ham and 
mushrooms and do not chop too fine. One-fourth a pound 
of each ingredient with sauce in proportion will be enough 
to garnish a large dish. 

MINIONS OF BEEF TENDERLOIN WITH CHESTNUTS 

Cook the minions as above; dress on a bread croustade. 
Surround the minions, or fill the centre, according as the 
minions are arranged, with shelled, blanched, and cooked 
whole chestnuts. To cook the chestnuts, let simmer until 
tender in broth with a stalk of celery. Reduce the broth to 
serve with the dish, thickening it if desired. 

NOISETTES OF BEEF TENDERLOIN 

Noisettes differ from minions of tenderloin simply in size, 
they should weigh about three ounces. Broiled or sauted, 
they are appropriately served with mushroom pur^e, sauted 
potato-balls sprinkled with parsley or with potatoes k la 
maitre d'hotel (see page 293), or with fritters or croquettes of 
beef marrow and mushrooms. 

PAUPIETTES OF BEEP TENDERLOIN 

From a well-trimmed tenderloin cut lengthwise slices five 
by two and one-fourth inches and less than one-fourth an inch 
in thickness; beat lightly and trim evenly; season with salt, 
pepper, and mace, and cover one side with a layer of cooked 



VEAL ROLLS A LA JARDINIERE 269 

fine herbs added to half-glaze and half-sauce and thickened 
by simmering, (see Cooked Fine Herbs, page 23). Roll the 
paupiettes into cylindrical forms; roll again in a shaving of 
fat salt-pork, tie in shape and lay side by side in a frying-pan ; 
add stock to half their height and let simmer until the liquid 
is evaporated ; add more stock and finish cooking in a moderate 
oven. When tender, remove the strings and pork, strain and 
skim the fat from the stock, thicken with a brown roux and 
serve, poured over the paupiettes or separately. Slices cut 
from a fillet of veal may be prepared in the same manner. 

BEST END OF THE LOIN OF LAMB, ETC. 

This piece of meat corresponds to that part of the sirloin of 
beef in which the tenderloin is found. When this cut is to 
be served, either in hot or cold dishes, separated into uniform 
pieces free from bone and fat, the pieces can be given a more 
exact and uniform size and shape, if the bones be removed 
first of all. The section of back or chine-bone and the bone 
connected with this and at right angles to it may be removed 
in one piece, then the meat can be sliced into cutlets, or chops, 
of the same thickness, then trimmed and skewered to the same 
shape. These boned cutlets may be broiled, or braised, and 
finished in accordance with any of the recipes given for fillets 
of beef. They may also be used for medallions on rounds 
of meat. 

VEAL ROLLS A LA JARDINIERE 

Cut veal from the leg in very thin slices. With a wooden 
mallet pound the slices to one-fourth an inch in thickness, 
cut in pieces three by five inches, and chop the trimmings 
with one-eighth as much of bacon or fat salt-pork. Add half 
as much, by measure, of fresh breadcrumbs as meat, season 
with onion juice, paprika, lemon juice, salt, and the stems of 
a dozen mushrooms, chopped and sauted in butter. Add a 
beaten egg and stock or water, to make the whole as moist as 
possible and still hold its shape. Spread each slice with the 
forcemeat nearly to the edge, roll tightly, and tie or fasten 
with small buttered skewers. Shape the remaining mixture 



270 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

into balls. Dredge both rolls and balls with salt, pepper, and 
flour, and saut^ to a light brown in hot bacon fat or butter. 
Half cover with stock, or thin cream, and let simmer about 
forty-five minutes, or until tender. Meanwhile boil a cauli- 
flower and peas; saut^ a dozen mushroom-caps, wiped and 
peeled, and cook them ten minutes in a little cream. Dispose 
the rolls upon a serving-dish, the vegetables and balls around. 
Mix the cream in which the mushrooms were cooked with 
the liquid in the pan, thicken if desired with roux or meuni^re, 
and strain into a sauce-boat. The yolk of beaten egg, diluted 
with one-fourth a cup of cream, or with a tablespoonful of 
butter and a little lemon juice, may be added if desired. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN OR GAME 

Directions for the removal of fillets of fowl or birds were 
given on page 1 70. The fowl from which fillets are to be taken 
needs be plump and full grown but young. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN, PLAIN 

Lay the fillets, all cut the size of the small fillet, side by 
side on a buttered baking-pan; pour in a very little stock, 
cover tightly with an oiled paper, and cook in a rather hot 
oven about ten minutes. Serve, one overlapping another, 
crown-shaped, or straight down the dish. Asparagus- tips 
make an appropriate garnish. Serve Bechamel sauce apart. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH TONGUE ESCALOPS 

Cut the large fillets of one or two plump chickens into fillets, 
the shape and size of the small fillet, and cook as above. 
Poach a ring of chicken quenelle forcemeat in a narrow bor- 
der mould, concave on the top. Cut some escalops of cooked 
red beef tongue, the size of the fillets, and heat them in a 
little broth. Dress the fillets, the pointed ends uppermost 
and covered with paper frills, and the escalops alternately on 
the crown of forcemeat. Fill the centre with green peas, held 
together in cream or Bechamel sauce. To make the dish 
more elaborate, cut slantwise five parallel incisions down the 
centre of each fillet, having the cuts equidistant from one 



J 



FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS 271 

another, and into each of these press a round slice of truffle ; 
cut the exposed edge of the truffle in points or leave plain. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH FORCEMEAT 

(an entree made from one chicken to serve eight) 

Remove the fillets with care, to avoid separating the mignon 
and large fillets. Cut each side lengthwise into- four fillets ; 
bat each to a uniform thickness with a broad knife wet in cold 
water, dispose in a buttered agate pan, sprinkle with lemon 
juice, salt, and pepper; cover with a buttered paper and cook 
about five minutes in a moderate oven, then press under a 
light weight until cold. Free the meat, taken from the first 
and second joints, of skin and sinew. To each half-pound of 
meat, add four ounces of panada, one ounce of butter, salt 
and white pepper, dnd pound in a mortar to a smooth paste, 
adding meanwhile two raw eggs. When well blended press 
through a sieve. Spread this to the depth of half an 
inch over the fillets, smooth the tops and edges with a knife 
wet in hot water, and trim the fillets into shape if needed: 
put into a buttered saut6 pan, add two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry wine and set into the oven for gibout fifteen minutes 
or until firm to the touch. Dispose the fillets on a border of 
forcemeat or potato and fill the centre with a ragout of button 
mushrooms and chicken quenelles, or of peas or asparagus in 
a rich sauce. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS 

Remove the fillets from two chickens, separating them into 

large and mignon fillets; remove the membrane from the 

large fillets and the tendons from the mignon or small fillets 

and trim neatly. Cut transverse slits in the upper side of each 

fillet and, in the larger, insert slices of truffle stamped into 

rotrnds with the lower edge fringed, and tiny strips of truffle, 

in the smaller fillets. Smoked and cooked beef tongue may be 

used in the place of the truffles. Brush the fillets with beaten 

white of egg and dispose in a buttered agate baking-pan; 

turn in a few spoonfuls Of rich broth or wine and cook about 

fifteen minutes covered closely with a buttered paper. Sprin- 



3 72 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

kle the fillets witli a little salt before brushing with the egg. 
Dispose around a socle of fried bread. Garnish the top with 
heart leaves of lettuce and surround the base with a velout6 
sauce to which the trimmings of the truffles, chopped fine, 
and eight medium-sized mushroom-caps sauted in butter 
have been added. 

For sweetbreads, calf's liver, and brains, which are included 
in this division, see the chapter on veal, page 151. 

COLD COOKED MEAT FRIED IN BATTER 

Tender, cold cooked meat of any kind may be trimmed into 
pieces of uniform shape and size, dipped in Villeroi sauce, 
and when cold egg-and-breadcrumbed and fried in deep fat. 
Fritter batter may take the place of the sauce and egg-and- 
breadcrumbing. "Cooked fine herbs," or a croquette mix- 
ture, is often spread upon one side after shaping. Cold roast 
turkey and chicken are excellent, prepared by this recipe. 

FRITTER BATTER 

The yolks of 2 eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a cup of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of olive oil. 

I cup of flour. The whites of 2 eggs. 

Beat the yolks, add the milk gradually and stir little by 
little into the flour and salt sifted together; add the oil and 
set aside several hours. When ready to use add the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff. 

BATTER FOR SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES 

3-4 a cup of flour. i egg. 

I - 2 a teaspoonful of salt. i - 2 a teaspoonful of olive oil. 

1-2 a cup of milk. 

Prepare as above, except beat the ^gg without separating. 
If the cases lack in crispness and are thick and soft, more milk 
is needed; when right the case is very thin, delicate, and crisp. 
For notes on fritter batter, see fritters under desserts. 

TO MAKE FRITTER CASES— SWEDISH TIMBALE CASKS^ 

FOR SALPICON MIXTURES 

Plain and fluted irons of various shapes, mounted on a long 
handle, are used for shaping Swedish timbale cases. To tise, 






nimbed and fried, then 



FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH ML'SHROUMS. (See i 



ASPIC-JELLY 373 

dip the iron into the hot fat, let stand two or three minutes, 
then drain and dip into the batter, — held in a small cup, — 
to half an inch of the top of the iron; return at once to the 
fat and hold there until the batter is crisp and lightly colored, 
then remove from the iron and turn upside down on soft paper 
to drain. If, on dipping the iron into the batter, the batter 
does not cling to it, the iron has not been heated enough. If 
the fat sizzles considerably, and the case spreads out and 
drops from the iron, the mould is too hot. If the iron be 
lowered too far into the batter, the case will spread over the 
top of the iron and be troublesome to remove. The finished 
cases should be very thin, delicate, and crisp. With exper- 
ience these are very easily made. They may be purchased at 
a caterer's, as also a pressed croustade or case made of a 
similar batter, but without frying. For salpicon to serve in 
these cases, see page 246. 

V 

COLD ENTREES, AS ASPICS, CHAUDFROIDS, 

MOUSSES, ETC. 

Probably the handsomest dishes, in all cookery, are those 
which come under the head of cold entrees. Especially is 
this the case when aspic-jelly enters into the ^composition of 
the dish and fresh vegetable salads lend their presence to the 
garniture of the same. 

ASPIC-JELLY 

Aspic is a transparent jelly made of stock or standard broth, 

clarified and variously flavored. Consomm6 made by the 

recipe given on page 199, gives a fotmdation for one of the 

best of aspic-jellies, but any of the standard broths, meat or 

fish, either alone or in suitable combinations, may be used. 

Chicken or veal stock alone gives a very delicately tinted 

aspic. To each five cups of any of these liquids needs be 

added two ounces of gelatine, softened in a cup of cold water 

and such additional flavoring as is desired. The whole is 

then clarified with white of eggs or raw meat, one or both. 

(^See clearing of soup stock, page 196.) Where transparency 

is no object, as when aspic is used in creams, or when it is 



2 74 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

added to mayonnaise or other sauce, any uncleared standard 
broth answers every purpose. In these, cases two ounces of 
gelatine should be allowed for each five cups of stock and 
cream or sauce used in the composition of the dish. The 
natural color of aspic jelly is often heightened, and for fish 
and salads it is tinted a delicate green. When the consomm^ 
has been already finished and cleared for the table, it may be 
transformed into aspic- jelly simply by the, addition of the 
gelatine. As: / 

RECIPE FOR ASPIC JELLY 

5 cups of cleared consomm^. i cup of cold water. 
2 ounces of gelatine. 

Let the gelatine stand in the cold water until thoroughly 
softened, (a granulated or pulverized gelatine dissolves in a 
very few minutes); heat the consomm^ and pour over the 
gelatine, strain and it is ready for use. 

ASPIC JELLY WITH BEEF EXTRACT 

1-4 a cup of chopped onion. 2 sprigs of parsley. 

1-4 a cup of chopped carrot. 3 tablespoonfuls of tarragon 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. vinegar. 

2 stalks of celery. i quart of water. 

I- 2 a cup of mushroom 3 teaspoon fuls of beef extract. 

trimmings. 2 cups of boiling water. 

I bay leaf. 2 ounces of gelatine. 

6 pepper corns or The yellow rind of a lemon. 
A piece of red pepper. i cup of cold water. 

3 cloves. The white and shell of i egg. 

Cook the onion, carrot, celery, mushroom trimmings, baj' 
leaf, and parsley in the butter; add the pepper, cloves, vinegar, 
lemon rind, and quart of water; let simmer very gently an 
hour and strain over the beef extract dissolved in the hat 
water, then add the gelatine softened in the cold water, 
and when cooled, the white of egg slightly beaten and 
the crushed shell (more shells are of advantage). Bring the 
liquid slowly to the boiling point, stirring constantly mean- 
while ; let boil three minutes, then remove to a cooler part of 
the range to simmer fifteen minutes; skim carefully, thea 



TO MOULD APSIC JELLY 275 

strain through double folds of cheesecloth laid inside a colander 

or strainer. 

WAYS OF USING ASPIC JELLY 

Aspic-jelly may be: 

1. Cut into separate or distinct pieces, either fine or coarse, 
called chopped aspic. These may be used to surround a dish 
of cold meat cut in slices, or piled like a rosette on slices of cold 
meat, or, if cut fine, put on to the article as ** piping. " 

2. It may be moulded in half-inch sheets and stamped out 
with fanciful-shaped cutters, dipped in hot water, or moulded 
in thicker sheets and cut with a knife, dipped in hot water, into 
pyramids, triangles, blocks, etc. Thus cut it is used to gar- 
nish large objects moulded in aspic. 

3. Aspic- jelly is moulded either plain or decorated with 
capers, bits of cooked white of egg and truffles, leaves of pars- 
ley or cress, in fanciful-shaped moulds, to garnish large objects 
moulded in aspic. 

4. It is used to line mouldy the centres of which are to be 
filled with salads, mousses, creams, etc., stiffened with gelatine 
or aspic. 

5. To hold up and surround pieces of fish, meat, etc., or 
whole objects, as boned and stuffed birds and fowl. 

6. To coat with a glossy surface objects, or pieces of fish, 
meat, etc., covered with a mixture of sauce and aspic, called 
chaudfroids. 

TO MOULD ASPIC JELLY 

For use in the first two ways, turn the liquid when cold, but 
before it begins to set, into perfectly clean and chilled pans 
of a size the required thickness demands. Always be careful 
that any dish containing aspic stands perfectly level. 

For use in the third way, simply pour the cooled aspic into 
the chilled moulds, unless the moulds are to be decorated. In 
this latter case, turn the chilled mould with a tablespoonful 
— less or more, according to the size of the mould — of chilled 
aspic round and round until the surface is lightly coated; 
set in ice and water until firm enough to keep in place, then 
arrange upon it the decorations, adding a drop of aspic to 



376 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

each, to hold it in place. Let the chilled but liquid aspic stand, 
meanwhile, in a saucepan of lukewarm water, in order to keep 
it in the right condition to use. After the decoration is 
firmly set, cover with more aspic, and when that is set, add a 
stoned or stuffed olive or any trifle that is desired; keep this 
in place with a drop or two of aspic and then gradually fill 
the mould. The same method is employed when the aspic 
is used for the fifth purpose. 

When the aspic is used to line a mould to the depth of half 
an inch or more, two moulds of the same shape, one larger than 
the other, are needed. Charlotte moulds are the style most 
often used. This is called double moulding. 

DOUBLE MOULDING 

Select two moulds similar in shape, one an inch or more 
larger than the other. Set the larger mould in a pan of ice 
and water, pour in liquid jelly to the depth of an inch and, 
when chilled and firm, place the smaller mould filled with ice 
upon the jelly and exactly in the centre; add water to the 
ice, then fill the outside mould with the liquid jelly; let stand 
until firm, then dip out the ice and water from the inner 
mould, replace with warm water and at once lift out the 
smaller mould ; fill the open space to within an inch of the top 
with the salad mixture, cream or mousse preparation, or what- 
ever is desired, and when this is firm cover with liquid aspic. 

TO UNMOULD ASPIC OR OTHER JELLIES, ETC. 

Immerse the mould to the height of the contents in warm — 
not hot — water; with a pointed knife loosen if necessary the 
jelly at the upper edge, turning the mould meanwhile from 
side to side, to make sure that the jelly has separated from the 
sides; then invert on the serving-dish and carefully lift the 
mould. 

A delicate jelly cannot be easily moved after it has fallen 
from the mould, and care should be exercised, at first, to 
place it evenly in the centre of the dish. If unmoulded on a 
lace or dish paper, the jelly may be moved on the paper. To 
change the position on a dish, when no paper has been used. 



CHICKEN CUTLETS WITH CRESS SALAD 277 



carefully replace the mould over the mixture, then invert both 
together and separate the jelly from the dish with a spatula. 

TO COAT CHAUDFROIDS WITH ASPIC JELI-Y 

If the object covered with chaudfroid sauce be small, hold 
it on a broad knife-blade and pour the liquid aspic over it. 
A large object may be set on a meat-rack over a large dish. 
The aspic may be put on with a brush; a spoon, however, is 
usually preferable. 

TOMATO JELLY 

Tomato jelly is not a clear, transparent, sparkling jelly 
like aspic; but it looks and tastes well and is easily made. 
Being opaque, it is used as a garnish rather than as a vehicle 
for holding other articles. 

RECIPE FOR TOMATO JELLY 



3 1-2 cups of cooked tomatoes. 

A slice of onion. 

A stalk of celery. 

A bay leaf. 

2 cloves. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 



A piece of red pepper pod or a 
few drops of tabasco sauce. 

1-2 a cup or more of mush- 
room parings. 

I tablespoonful of tarragon vin- 
egar. 

1-2 a box (i ounce) of gelatine. 



Cook the tomatoes (canned tomatoes are usually thus used), 
with all the ingredients, except the last three, fifteen minutes; 
add the vinegar and the gelatine, softened in cold water and 
stir until the gelatine is dissolved, then strain and mould. If 
bright-colored jelly be desired, strain through a sieve just 
fine enough to hold b^ck the seeds. A less dense and lighter- 
colored jelly results, when the mixture is strained slowly 
through a cheesecloth. 

RECIPES 
CHICKEN CUTLETS WITH CRESS SALAD 

Chill a thin layer of aspic jelly in cutlet moulds; decorate 
with figures, cut from cooked white of egg, and olives or pickles. 
Sprinkle with sifted yolk of egg and cover with aspic. When 
firm, put in a layer of cold cooked chicken and ham sliced 



278 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

very thin, and cover with more aspic. When cold turn from 
the moulds against a mound of watercress dressed with French 
dressing (see page 353). Garnish the top of the mound with 
mayonnaise and pass mayonnaise separately. 

TONGUE MOULDED IN ASPIC JELLY 

For this dish a fresh tongue may be used, but a pickled tongue 
is preferable. Boil or braise the tongue until very tender 
(see page 131). Remove the skin and return the tongue to the 
liquid in which it was cooked to cool partly, then cover and 
set aside until cold and ready to use. Trim off the unedible 
portion of the tongue, and remove any globules of fat that 
may have settled upon it, cut in slices of uniform thickness, 
and trim these into rounds. Select rounds of the same size, 
for lining the mould, and use the others for filling. Prepare 
enough aspic jelly to fill the mould without regard to the 
other articles to be used ; this is a safe plan to follow in nearly 
all cases. Wipe the slices of pickle dry before dipping them 
in the jelly. In filling the mould, do not use the aspic in 
which the tongue and pickle have been dipped, as it will be 
more or less cloudy after use. Avoid having one layer of 
material set too solid before another is added or the moulded 
form will separate at this place when turned out. If the 
jelly be in the right condition, the tongue and other materials 
chilled and the mould set in ice and water, the filling of the 
mould may be an almost continuous operation. Chill an 
eighth of an inch of jelly in the bottom of the mould and set 
in ice and water. When nearly firm dispose on this a ring 
of slices of *' hard-boiled" egg with a slice of the same in the 
centre of the ring, and add a few drops of jelly to each, which 
when set will hold the slice in place. Against the sides and 
close to the bottom of the mould dispose a ring of slices of 
cucumber-pickle, one overlapping another. Dip each slice in 
liquid aspic before pressing it against the side of the mould. 
When these are firmly fixed in place, fill the mould to nearly 
same height with slices of tongue and pour in jelly to fill up 
the space between the slices. Above the slices of pickle 
arrange a circle with slices of tongue, one slice overlapping 



TONGUE MOULDED IN ASPIC JELLY, {See p 



CUAUDPKOID OF MUTTON CHOPS. 



BONED QUAIL IN ASPIC JELLY 279 

another, in direction opposite to that in which the pickle slices 
overlap, and fill the centre with slices of tongue, pickles, and 
capers, if desired, covering each, as added, with jelly. Finish 
lining and filling the mould in the same manner. Let stand 
some hours on ice, if convenient. When turned from the 
mould garnish with cress and lengthwise quarters of hard- 
boiled eggs. 

TIMBALES OF HAM IN CHICKEN ASPIC 

Pound two cups of boiled ham, chopped fine in a meat- 
cutter, and four tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing to a 
smooth paste; gradually stir into this a cup and a quarter of 
chicken aspic, just on the point of " setting. " Chicken liquor 
flavored with vegetables, herbs, and spices, in which half 
an ounce of gelatine has been dissolved, answers every purpose 
in this case. Have ready standing in ice water timbale moulds, 
decorated with lengthwise slices of olives, and above either 
sifted yolk or fine-chopped white of ** hard-boiled" eggs, 
mixed with enough liquid jelly to hold the egg together. 
Pour this mixture into the moulds, to make an even layer of 
the same height in each, then fill the moulds with the liquid 
ham mixture. Serve turned from the moulds on a bed of 
heart leaves of lettuce, sprinkled with shreds of olives, red 
chilies, or shreds of cooked sweet pepper and tiny strips of 
cooked ham or bacon, dressed with French dressing. 

TIMBALES OF LOBSTER IN ASPIC 

Decorate the bottom and sides of individual timbale moulds 
with slices of cucumber-pickle and large capers, set in a little 
liquid aspic. When nearly, set fill the moulds with lobster, 
cut in cubes and mixed with liquid mayonnaise aspic (see 
page 274). Serve with lettuce leaves seasoned with French 
dressing. 

BONED QUAILS IN ASPIC JELLY 

6 boned quails. 2 ounces of foie gras. 

I cup of cooked chicken breast 1-2 a cup of tomato sauce. 

or meat from quails. i cup of liquid aspic. 
6 mushrooms. 



28o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Wipe the boned quails inside and out, and put into the body 
of each a cylindrical piece of taw carrot or potato, to keep it 
in shape. Pare'and dry and butter the vegetables before using 
them. Brush with melted butter and tie each in a folded 
paper, buttered. Roast about twenty minutes. When cold 
remove the papers, potatoes and trussing twine, and with a 
forcing-bag and tube fill the birds with a salpicon made by 
stirring the chicken breast, cooked mushrooms and foie-gras, 
all cut in tiny cubes, into the cold tomato sauce, mixed with 
the aspic. Add the aspic to the tomato sauce, while both are 
slightly warm, and stir while cooling in ice water, then add the 
solid ingredients and fill the birds with the mixture before it 
begins to set. Let the birds become chilled ^ then with a 
knife, wet in hot water, cut each in halves. Cover with chaud- 
froid sauce and then with liquid aspic. Dress for sen-^ng 
against a rice croustade. Pipe chopped jelly between the 
birds and on the lop of the croustade. 

COLD SOUFFLE OF CHICKEN AND TONGUE 



I cup of liquid aspic. i cup of double cream. 

1-2 a cup of tomato pur^^c. 1-2 a cup of chopped (cooked) 

I tablespoon ful of tarragon chicken. 

vinegar. 1-2 a cup of chopped (cooked) 



Salt and pepper. pickled tongue. 

3 or 4 chopped truffles. 

To make the tomato pur^e, cook the tomatoes until rome- 
what evaporated, then pass through a pur^e sieve and let 
chill. Beat the cold but still liquid aspic with the tomato 
pur6e and the vinegar until very foamy ; add gradually to the 
chopped meat, then add the cream b aten sol d, al o a part of 
the truffles, with salt and pepper to taste; turn into a souffle 
dish — a small-size dish is needed — with a band of paper, 
fastened about and extending above the dish about an inch. 
Sprinkle the top with the rest of the chopped t uffles and 
set aside in an ice "cave" — a pail that can be clo ed to keep 
out salt water will answer the purpose. Let stand an horn 
in crushed ice and salt. Remove the paper band before 
serving. Pass at the same time a green vegetable salad. 



J 



CHAUDFROIDS 281 

CREAM OF CHICKEN, QLACfe 

I cup of double cream. Salt, paprika and celery pep- 

1-3 a cup of chicken aspic. per. 

I cup of cooked chicken breast cut in cubes. 

Have the chicken breast cut into one-fourth an inch cubes. 
Add the seasonings to the cream and beat solid; pour over 
the cream the aspic, which should be cold but liquid, add the 
cliicken cubes and cut and fold the cubes and jelly into the 
cream. When beginning to set turn the mixture into a brick 
mould and chili thoroughly on ice. To serve, unmould as any 
jelly, cut into slices half an inch thick, and these in halves, as 
the mixture is rich. With forcing-bag and tube decorate each 
slice with chicken pur^e, tinted a delicate 'green with vegetable 
color paste, then chill again. The most satisfactory way of 
serving is on individual plates, each resting on a lettuce leaf 
dressed with French dressing, or on cress leaves and tips, or 
lettuce cut in ribbons and moistened with French dressing. 

CHICKteN PUREE FOR GARNISH OF ABOVE 

1-2 a cup of cooked chicken pulp. Pepper and salt. 

1-4 a cup of Bechamel Sauce. i cup of liquid aspic jelly. 

1-4 a cup of cream. 

Measure the chicken after it has been chopped, pounded 
and sifted; add the other ingredients gradually in the order 
given. 

CHAUDFROIDS 

The pleasing appearance of a chaudfroid depends entirely 
upon the perfect shape of the article selected and the smooth- 
ness which its surface is masked. In the recipe for chaud- 
froid sauce given on page 231, softened gelatine is added to 
an ordinary sauce made with roux. Oftentimes as aspic is 
used in these dishes, it is more convenient to substitute 
this in place of gelatine. Being more dilute than solid gelatine 
the foundation sauce needs be thicker. Use one-fourth a cup, 
each, of butter and flour (double the usual quantity) to one 
cup of brown or white stock, tomato purde or brown stock 
and tomato pur^e combined (terra-cotta color results from 
this latter combination). To this sauce add while hot from 



282 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

half to an equal quantity of aspic. The sauce is ready to 
apply when it coats a spoon smoothly, covering imperfections 
of color. When the sauce is of right temperature, set the 
saucepan containing it in a dish of lukewarm water, reheating 
the water as it cools. 

CHAUDFROID OF TONGUE WITH CUBES OF 

ASPIC JELLY 

Cut out the thick portion of a cold cooked and trimmed 
tongue, leaving a thin strip at the bottom to hold the rest in 
shape. Cut the portion in thin slices and return to its original 
place in the tongue ; brush the edges with aspic and the tongue 
to all appearance will be whole again. Dip the tip and oppos- 
ite end of the tongue into melted gelatine and hold in place 
on a meat-board or dish, until the gelatine is set and the tongue 
firmly adheres. Cover the tongue, which should be chilled 
by standing on ice, with brown chaudfroid sauce (see page 231) 
and, when set, decorate the surface with sprigs of parsley and 
bits of cooked white of egg, first dipping each piece on the end 
of a larding-needle into liquid aspic. When fixed in place 
cover with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and let stand to become 
firm. Have ready a large mound of aspic jelly cut in cubes; 
upon this dispose the tongue and surround the whole with 
triangles of pickled beet. 

CHAUDFROID OF SUPREME OF CHICKEN 

Prepare and cook a dozen "fillets of chicken, plain" (page 
270). Set to press under a weight and when cold trim them 
neatly and cover with tomato chaudfroid sauce; when the 
sauce has set, decorate one-half of the fillets with pieces of 
truffle, to form a star, and the other half with pieces of hard- 
boiled white of egg, to form the same design; pour over the 
fillets a little liquid aspic, to set the decoration and give a 
glossy surface. Chop a little aspic very fine, and with forcing- 
bag and plain tube dispose this around the edge of each fillet. 
Set aside to become thoroughly chilled. Mix a cup in all of 
cooked peas, asparagus-tips, tiny rounds of carrot, and cubes 
of turnip, half a cup of mayonnaise dressing, and a cup and 
one-half of liquid aspic. Stir these gently together on ice 



CREAM OF CHICKEN GLACE, WITH CRESS SALAD. 



TIMBALES OP HAM IK CHICKEN ASPIC. (See page > 



CBICKBN CUTLETS WITH CRESS SALAD ANU MAYONNAISE 



CHAUDFROID OF SWEETBREADS 283 

until beginning to set, then turn into a concave border mould 
and set aside to become firm. When ready to serve unmould 
the jellied macedoine on a serving-dish, arrange the fillets 
upon it, one overlapping another, and fill the centre with some 
of the vegetables used in the moulded macedoine, dressed 
with either French or mayonnaise dressing. Surround the 
whole with chopped aspic. Medallions of sweetbread, fillets 
of birds, etc. may be substituted for the chicken fillets. 

CHAUDFROID OF LAMB OR MUTTON CHOPS 

Have the chops cut of uniform thickness. If the chop bones 

are not to be retained, use the *' best end of the loin " dressed 

by the directions given on page 269. If the chop bone be 

retained, the chops will be too thick for this purpose unless a 

thin chop of varying thickness without bone be cut from 

between the chops with bones. Cut in the latter fashion, 

trim neatly, retaining only tender meat. Braise the chops, 

until tender, with fine-cut vegetables, partly cool in the liquid, 

then finish cooling under a weight. Pare the ice-cold chops 

very neatly and cover with brown or terra-cotta chaudfroid 

sauce (see page 281). When this is set, decorate with capers 

and figures cut from cooked white of egg. When these are 

firmly fixed in place, cover lightly with aspic jelly and sift 

cooked yolk of egg around the ed^e. Dress the chops, resting 

on heart leaves of lettuce, against a macedoine of. vegetable 

salad. Cover the ends of the bones with paper frills. 

CHAUDFROID OF SWEETBREADS 

Cut the parboiled-and-cooled sweetbreads into halves and 
cover with chaudfroid sauce (see page 281). Decorate the 
sauce with bits of truffle and white of hard-boiled egg. When 
the sauce with decoration is "set, " brush or pour over it some 
liquid aspic jelly and set aside to become thoroughly chilled. 
Serve with lettuce, celery, cress or tomato salad dressed with 
mayonnaise. Arrange half a tomato and a slice of sweet- 
bread, alternately, in two rows on a dish with heart leaves 
of lettuce between. Pass mayonnaise in a separate dish. 



CHAPTER IX 



VegretableB and Their Cookery 

'• How Inany things by season seasoned are 
To their right praise and true perfection ! " 

— Merchant op Venice. 



AVERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OP VEGETABLES 

PURCHASED (aTWATER) 



AS 



SO 



Refuse 
Per 
« cent. 

Asparagus 

Beans, Butter 

green 

Beans, dried 

Beans, Lima 

dried 

Beans, Limd 

fresh 

Beans, string 

fresh 7.0 

Beets, fresh ^0.0 

Cabbage, fresh ...15.0 

Carrots, fresh 20. 

Cauliflower, fresh . . . 

Celery 20.0 

Corn, green 61 , 

Cucumbers 15. 

Egg plant, edible 

portion 

Lentils, dried 

Lettuce 150 

Mushrooms 

Okra 1 2 . «: 



Water 
Per 

cent. 

94.0 



29 

12 



4 
6 



83.0 
70.0 

11 1 

92/3 

29.4 
81. 1 



92 

8 

80 

88 

78 



9 
4 

5 
I 

9 



Protein 

Per 

cent. 

1.8 



4.7 
22.5 



10.4 18.1 



55. o^^ 30.8 3.2 



2. I 

1-3 
1-4 

.9 
1.8 

.9 
1 . 2 

.7 



I 

I 

3 
I 

284 



2 

7 
o 

5 
4 



Pat 

Per 

cent. 



3 
8 



•3 
. I 

. 2 

.-2 

. I 

 4 
. 2 

■3 
.0 

. 2 

.4 
. 2 



Carbo- 
hydrates 
Per 
cent. 

3-3 



14 
59 



6 
6 



65 -9 
9.9 

6.9 

7-7 
4.8 

7-4 



4. 
2 

7 
2 

5 

59 
2 

6 

6 



7 
6 

7 
6 

I 

2 

5 
8 



Ash 

Per 

cent. 

-7 



I 
3 



o 
5 



8 

f 

9 
9 

7 

8 

3 
4 

5 

7 
6 

a 
5 



Fuel vat 

per-lb. 

Calories 

105 

37<> 
1.605 

1.625 

S55 

180 

170 

125 

160 

14c 

70 
180 

70 

130 
1 .620 

75 
210 

IS5 






VEGETABLES AND THEIR COOKERY 



28s 



Carbo- 

Refuse Water Protein Fat hydrates 

Per Per Per Per Per 

cent. cent. cent. cent. cent. 

Onions, fresh ....lo.o 78.9 1.4 .3 8.9 

Parsnips 20 . o 66 . 4 i - 3 . -4 io,» 8 

Peas, green 450 40.8 3.6 .2 9.8 

Potatoes, fresh. ..20.0 62.6 1.8 .1 14.7 
Potatoes, sweet, 

fresh 30. o 55.2 1.4 ,6 21.9 

Spinach 9^-3 ^-i -3 3-3 

Squash S° • <^ 44-2 .7 .2 4.5 

Tomatoes, fresh .... 94.3 .9 .4 3.9 

Turnips 30.0 62.7 .9 .1 5.7 



Ash 

Per 

cent. 

•5 
I . I 

.6 

.8 



3. 1 

•4 

.5 
.6 



Fuel val. 

per lb. 

Calories 

205 

240 

255 
310 

460 
lie 

105 
105 
"5 



The vegetarian society will not have existed in vain, if it 
does nothiijg more than teach a goodly number of housewives 
how to cook vegetables properly and in more ways than one, 
viz: simply boiled and buttered. For this branch of cookery is 
much neglected. It is safe to say that not more than one 
family in twenty, and perhaps not in fifty, ever cook celery, 
save in soup, or squash and turnip other than as plain boiled 
or mashed, while potatoes are either plain boiled, boiled and 
mashed or fried. 

In the cooking of vegetables the economical and thrifty 
housekeeper can find fit place for the expression of her genius. 
The flavor of meat is a pleasing one, but meat in roasts and 
broiling pieces is the most expensive and not infrequently the 
least satisfactory item of food that is purchased. The French 
or Italian housekeeper, with small expenditure of money, 
adds meat flavor to the cooked vegetables, — beans, cabbage, 
cauliflower, macaroni, rice, etc., and thus renders a cheap 
though nutritious food palatable. Cheese also combines 
well with many vegetables as it does also with grains and 
macaroni. This making of inexpensive food materials ap- 
petizing is the one great end in cookery that the American 
cook needs to attain. 

It will be seen by the analyses given at the head of the chap- 
ter that many of the fresh vegetables do not possess a high 
food value, but they are very valuable at all seasons on account 
of the saline elements which they contain, and in the summer 



286 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

season, when the heat of the body needs to be regulated, they 
provide for the system large sources of pure water. Different 
vegetables possess different saline elements, all of which are 
needed by the system, and each vegetable in season should be 
given a place on the table. 

In hot-houses lighted by' electric lights, market gardeners 
can transform the short dark days of the winter solstice into 
long, light, and growing days — such as are needed for the 
rapid growth of plant and vegetable. Still, there are but 
few forced vegetables and fruits that possess the genuine 
flavor of those that are grown in the natural manner. As a 
rule, when food is most cheap and plentiful, it is at its best; 
out of season, it is expensive and lacking in flavor and quality. 
In the early spring, the provident housekeeper will still make 
use, to a great extent, of such vegetables and fruits as are 
seasonable throughout the year, together with such dried 
articles as she has found most wholesome and palatable, ever 
bearing in mind how "all things come to him who will but 
wait. " On account of their tough cellular structure, by far 
the greater number of vegetables are eaten cooked. Their 
digestibility depends upon the degree of tenderness that can 
be given to their cellular tissue. Of course, the quantity and 
toughness of cellulose in vegetable products depend much 
upon the kind of plant, the soil, and the season in which 
it is grown; but under the most favorable cultivation this 
framework cannot be entirely eliminated, so that, first of all, 
thorough cooking, by which it is softened, is enjoined; soft 
water is an aid in this process, and, where this is not at hand, 
the solvent property of the water may be enhanced by the use 
of a few grains of cooking soda. This addition is less objec- 
tionable in the case of strong-juiced vegetables, like cabbage 
and onions, cooked in a large quantity of water to lessen the 
disagreeable flavor or constituents (as sulphur), and from 
which the water is to be carefully drained before serving. 
Quite a different plan should be pursued with the sweet- 
juiced vegetables, as peas and yotmg beans. Of these soda 
would destroy the delicate green color, while salt would in- 
tensify it; little salt, however, should be used, as the water, 



USE OF SALT IN BOILING VEGETABLES 287 

In which these vegetables are cooked, holds in solution much 
of the sweet juices and mineral salts, their most valuable con- 
stituents, and should be retained for serving with them. 

Rapid cooking is desirable for strong- juiced vegetables, 
while a gentle simmering is preferable for the sweet-juiced 
varieties. When the vegetable is to be dressed with butter, 
the heat of the vegetable should be sufficient to melt the 
butter. 

USB OP SALT IN BOILING VEGBTABLBS 

Salt is added to vegetables for savor and, in some cases, to 
help retain the color of green-colored vegetables, as spinach, 
peas, asparagus, etc. Salt tends to draw out the juices and 
toughen fibre. Consequently, if color and savor are preferred 
to texture, or if the vegetables are quickly grown, fresh, and 
tender, use salt. If the vegetables are wilted and in con- 
sequence liable to be tough, add the salt just as they are done, 
thereby sacrificing color to tenderness. Potatoes, either 
white or sweet, that are usually tender when boiled, are best 
boiled in salted water. All vegetables may be made more 
delicate in flavor by blanching. To blanch, cover the vege- 
table with cold water, let boil five minutes, then drain and 
rinse in cold water; drain again, then cook as usual. 

Those who live in the country may plant a garden, have a 
"canner" of some kind, and, in time of plenty, **put up** 
vegetables and fruit for winter use. Even those who have no 
fruit-trees often put up fruit. Young and tender asparagus, 
peas, string beans, beets, and sweet com, when these are ob- 
tainable, may be canned most successfully, and prove truly 
delectable in taste. But, when the home supplies run short, 
then is the time to find out the possibilities of dried vegetables 
and fruit; and few know how tempting they may be made. 
Dried lima beans, lentils, and flageolets (French beans), 
soaked in cold water over night, cook quickly, and may be 
served with butter, cream or sauces; with more labor, they 
may be transformed into soups, croquettes, souffles, salads, 
etc. Tomatoes in combination or in sauces give variations 
to these dishes and, combined with a suspicion of onion, 



i88 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

impart flavor, which at the present time is demanded in all 
good cookery. 

Once having tried celery au gratin — celery alone or with 
cheese and oysters, — or celery in a brown sauce flavored with 
kitchen bouquet, no part of the head of celery need go to waste. 
Of course, in any of these dishes whole heads of celery may 
be used, but, as a matter of economy, the tender inner stalks 
may be reserved for a "savory, " and the coarse outer stalks, 
that are not palatable uncooked, may be presented in one of 
the most pleasing little entr<$es mentioned above. " These, 
properly seasoned and flavored, in addition to their palata- 
bility give quite an "air'* to an ordinary home dinner. Note 
that the celery will need cooking at least an hour. 

STEAMING VEGETABLES 

Vegetables from which the liquid is to be drained may be 
more satisfactorily cooked by steaming than by boiling. This 
is especially true of squash and vegetables belonging to the 
cabbage family. As rapid cooking is desirable, the steamer 
may be placed directly over the fire. Then if the steamer 
be properly constructed and the range connected with the 
chimney, all odor from the cooking vegetables is carried out 
of the house up the chimney. If plenty of water be supplied 
at the start, the steamer need not be opened except to test the 
extent of cooking. 

WHEN PREPARING CANNED VEGETABLES 

It is well to remember that all canned goods are better, 
if the cans be opened some little time before using, that the 
contents may come in contact with a fresh supply of oxygen. 
It is needless to add, perhaps, that it is a wholesome precaution 
to remove the contents from the can at once, after it has been 
opened; Acid fruits, tomatoes, etc., must be removed at 
once, or ill effects may result from their use. 

Peas, beans, and, in fact, all vegetables, used apart from 
the liquid in which they are preserved, should be thoroughly 
rinsed in cold water, and then scalded quickly in hot water, 
and drained. They are then ready for seasoning and serving 



BAKED POTATOES 289 

in any manner desired; a little sugar (a teaspoonful to a can) 
will improve the taste of peas. Rusty or leaky cans, or cans 
bulging at the end, should always be discarded. To simplify 
the matter of cooking vegetables, the things to be determined 
are : is salt or no salt to be used ? is much or little water required ? 
should this be hot or cold ? and also is the cooking to be slow 
or rapid ? These things can be best determined by considering 
whether the vegetable in question be strong or sweet juiced, 
fresh gathered, wilted or dried. 

POTATOES (STRONG JUICED) 

'* perfect" potatoes 

Select ripe new potatoes and scrub them until the outer 
skin is removed; boil quickly in boiling salted water, drain 
perfectly dry and dust lightly with salt from the dredger, 
cover with a cloth and keep hot on the back of the range. 
Fold the potatoes, singly, in a hot, dry cloth, twist the ends of 
the cloth in opposite directions tightly, then drop the dry 
mealy potato, white as snow, into the serving-dish. Serve 
before they have become cold. 

IMITATION NEW POTATOES (THE HOTEL MONTHLY) 

Pick out small, round, ripe potatoes, wash and peel them. 

Put them into a cheesecloth sack and tie the top. Have 

ready a saucepan containing enough of equal parts of milk 

and water (slightly salted) to cover the potatoes. Simmer 

slowly until they are done. Lift out the sack, allow them to 

drain on a colander a few minutes, then place in the oven to 

dry five minutes. Prepare a rich cream sauce seasoned with 

butter and salt. Remove potatoes from the sack, put them 

in a saucepan over hot water, and cover with the sauce. 

Serve in a deep vegetable dish. 

BAKED POTATOES 

First scrub thoroughly with a vegetable brush, then put into 
a hot oven. Potatoes of moderate size require in baking about 






290 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

forty-five minutes ; they are at their best as soon as they are soft 
throughout. As the heat is usually strongest from above, turn 
the potatoes, occasionally, to insure even baking. On removal 
from the oven, break the skin, to let the steam escape, lest the 
naturally dry, mealy potato become '* soggy " from the quickly 
condensing steam. A potato baked in a slow oven is less 
digestible than the same when properly boiled. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Whether potatoes are to be pared after scrubbing is a mat- 
ter of taste as well as economy and needs be decided in each 
individual case. (The United States Government has recently 
furnished opportunity for experiments by which the exact 
quantity of nutritive elements wasted by cooking pared 
potatoes, both before and after soaking in cold water, could 
be determined.) Cooked without paring, the skins hold back 
mineral salts some proteid and starch, hence where a dietary 
is restricted it were well to retain the skin. Old potatoes that 
have lost water by evaporation will be better, if they be soaked 
in cold water, or at least put over the fire to cook in cold water. 
Let the potatoes be of uniform size and, if large, cut in halves 
lengthwise. Rapid boiling pulverizes the outside before the 
centre becomes tender. After the potatoes have become 
tender proceed as for "perfect " potatoes, omitting the twisting 
in the cloth. 

RICED POTATOES 

Pass through a ricer eight hot boiled potatoes; add three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, and about 
half a cup of hot milk or cream; beat thoroughly with per- 
forated cake-spoon, and pass through the ricer or vegetable- 
press about the meat. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Prepare as riced potatoes; beat until very light and fluffy, 
and pile irregularly in a serving-dish, putting a bit of butter 
here and there in the depressions. 



POTATO ROSES 291 



POTATOES TO SERVE WITH FISH 

Pass hot mashed potatoes through a ricer. Add a generous 
piece of butter, a Uttle salt and hot milk or cream, as needed. 
Beat thoroughly, and press firmly into a buttered tin. Have 
the potato about half an inch thick. Cut into diamond-shaped 
pieces, and score diagonally with a skewer dipped in melted 
butter. Brush over with yolk of an eggy beaten with a table- 
spoonful of milk, and brown in the oven. Serve with a tea- 
spoonful of peas, in a thick cream sauce, in the centre of each 
piece. 

POTATO CAKES 

Shape mashed potato left from dinner into small flat cakes. 
Dip in sifted flour and saut^ first one side and then the 
other in hot salt-pork or bacon fat. 

DUCHESS POTATOES 

To about a pint of hot riced potatoes add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of three 
eggs, and enough hot cream or milk to let the mixture pass 
easily through a forcing-bag with tube attached. Shape as 
desired; brush over with a little beaten egg, diluted with milk 
or water, and brown in a hot oven. 

POTATO ROSES 

Fill the forcing-bag with duchess potato mixture (white or 
sweet). Hold the bag in an upright position, tube pointing 
downward, and force out the potato; at the proper moment 
press the tube gently into the mixture and raise it quickly, to 
break the flow. To make another style of rose, use a six- 
pointed tube, points almost meeting. Hold the bag in a 
position at right angles to that indicated in the first case, and 
force out the potato in a deeply cleft cord, which is coiled 
round and round in smaller and smaller circles; or shape in 
bow knots. Shape the roses on a buttered tin sheet, brush 
over with beaten eggy diluted with milk or water, and brown in 
the oven. Remove with a spatula or broad-bladed knife. 



293 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and use as a garnish for meat or fish. When used as a border 
for a creamed dish, set closely together on the serving-dish, 
to avoid removal. Smaller roses may be arranged between the 
larger ones, so as to make a solid wall, to retain what may be 
served within. Sometimes the whole wall is built up of small 
roses, in a manner similar to that in which children make burr 
baskets. 

POTATO CROQUETTES AND BOULETTE8 

Omit the hot milk or cream and the yolks of two of the eggs 
from the duchess potato mixture, add pepper and a few 
drops of onion juice, shape as desired, then egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry in deep fat. Add fine-chopped parsley and 
sweet herbs to the mixture, shape into balls and finish as cro- 
quettes, and potato boiUettes are formed. Make a well in a ball 
of the mixture, put into this a teaspoonful of peas, asparagus, 
cubes of chicken, etc., in cream sauce, cover with more of the 
potato mixture, shape as desired, egg-and-breadcnmib, and 
croquettes en surprise result. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES 

Pare five or six potatoes and cut in thin slices ; dispose these 
in a buttered baking-dish in layers; sprinkle the layers with 
salt and pepper, onion juice, and fine-chopped parsley, dredge 
with flour and add a few bits of butter. Pour just enough hot 
milk over the potatoes to cover them and bake in a moderate 
oven about an hour and a half. This dish may be prepared 
with cold, boiled potatoes and the time of cooking cut down 
nearly one-half; also the quantity of milk required is less. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES 

Pare the potatoes and parboil ten minutes ; drain and put on 
the rack in a pan in which meat is roasting; baste when the 
meat is basted. Potatoes thus treated will bake in about 
forty-five minutes. Cook turnips and large or ripe cucumbers, 
pared and seeds removed, in the same fashion. 



J 



SYRACUSE HOT SALT POTATOES ^93 



BUTTERED POTATO, TURNIP OR CARROT BALLS 

With a French cutter, cut out potato balls ; cook until tender 
in boiling salted water; drain, pour over them a little melted 
butter and sprinkle with fine-chopped parsley. Cook turnips 
or carrots in the same way. 

POTATOES A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL 

Boil one pint of potato balls, cut with French cutter, in 
boiling salted water about ten minutes ; drain, and add one cup 
of milk. Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter, add the yolk 
of one egg, beat in well, add also one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonftd 
ol salt, and a dash of paprika; and, when the milk is partly 
absorbed, stir into the potatoes quickly. 

BAKED POTATOES IN THE HALF SHELL 

Select shapely sweet potatoes of even size ; wash and scrub 
with care. Bake and cut in halves lengthwise. Remove the 
pulp from the skins and pass it through a ricer. Season with 
salt, butter, and cream. Beat until smooth, then refill the 
skins with the mixture, using pastry-bag and star tube. Re- 
heat before serving. If desired, dust the tops with powdered 
sugar and cinnamon before reheating. 

POTATOES ANNA n 

Pare the potatoes (white or sweet) and cut them lengthwise 
into slices one-fourth an inch in thickness; carefully put the 
slices together, to retain the original shape of the potato, and 
then run two wooden toothpicks, dipped in melted butter, 
through each potato, to hold the pieces together. Parboil ten 
minutes, then bake either with the roast or separately, basting 
with dripping from the roast. Remove the toothpicks: serve 
as a garnish to the roast. 

SYRACUSE HOT SALT POTATOES (THE CATERER) 

Select potatoes of medium size and smooth skin and scrub 
clean; have ready a kettle of brine at the boiling point; put in 



294 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

potatoes, cover and boil until tender; remove from the water 
and drain. Serve at once. The outside will be covered with 
salt crystals and the inside will be white and mealy. 

PARISIAN POTATOES 

With French cutter (round vegetable spoon) cut out of un- 
cooked potatoes, pared, a pint of balls. Cook in boiling salted 
water about ten minutes, or until nearly tender; drain, and toss 
in a frying-pan, in which there are four tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter and a little salt. Set the pan in the oven, shak- 
ing it frequently, until the potatoes are thoroughly cooked and 
well browned. Add a little fresh butter, a dash of salt, if 
needed, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Toss the 
balls about, to distribute the ingredients evenly, and serve at 
once. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE 

Into a large flat-bottomed saucepan put one-fourth a cup of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When hot lay in raw, 
sweet potatoes pared and cut in halves, lengthwise, to cover the 
bottom ; season with salt and pepper and cover not very closely 
with another layer of potatoes. Pour on boiling water to half 
cover the lower layer, cover the vessel tightly and set where the 
heat is gentle. When the lower layer is browned, remove to 
the top, letting the other brown. When both layers are tender 
the water should have evaporated, leaving a little sauce to pour 
over the potatoes in the serving-dish. If preferred, this dish 
may be cooked in a casserole in the oven. 

SWEET POTATO-AND-ALMOND CROQUETTES 

Bake several sweet potatoes. As soon as they are soft. 
break apart, scrape out the pulp, and pass through a squash 
strainer. To each pint of pulp add one teaspoonful of salt, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, one beaten egg, three tablespoon- 
fuls of blanched almonds, chopped and pounded in a mortar, 
and hot milk, or cream, to make of a consistency to handle. 
Form into the shapes of apples and pears, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry in deep fat. Finish with stalks of parsley for 
stems. 



J 



POTATO BASKETS FILLED WITH POTATO OLIVES A 



BAKED POTATOES IN THE HALF SHELL. (See 



I 



POTATOES WARMED IN MILK 29s 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

Pare and parboil half a dozen sweet potatoes, cut in halves 
lengthwise. After ten minutes' boiling, drain, and lay in a 
baking-dish. Spread thickly with butter, sprinkle with sugar, 
and, if desired, a little powdered cinnamon; add a few spoon- 
fuls of hot water and bake until tender, basting often with the 
sauce in the pan. 

BROILED POTATOES 

Halve lengthwise cold boiled potatoes, white or sweet ; salt 
them lightly, then dip in melted butter, turning them so as to 
cover all sides with the butter. Then dispose them on a 
double-broiler — an oyster or tomato broiler is admirable for 
this purpose — and broil over a moderate fire, first on one 
side and then on the other, until well browned. Serve on a 
folded napkin and a hot dish. 

DELMONICO POTATOES 

Chop cold, boiled potatoes into bits the size of peas ; make a 
white sauce and stir the chopped potato into it, using a gen- 
erous cupfiil of potato to each cup of sauce. Pour into a 
buttered pudding-dish, cover the top with buttered cracker- 
crumbs and bake about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

DELMONICO*S CREAM ROLL POTATOES 

Stir a gr lerous pint of chopped potato (cold boiled) into a 
pint of cream or white sauce, seasoned with salt, onion juice 
or celery salt ; turn the mixture into a well-buttered frying- 
pan and cook (covered) in the oven until the sauce is absorbed 
with the exception of just enough to hold the bits of potato 
together. -Fold one-half over the other, or roll from one side 
over and over as an omelet and turn onto a hot dish. Do not 
allow the potatoes to brown on the top or bottom. 

POTATOES WARMED IN MILK 

Melt two or three tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, 
and in it toss a pint of cold boiled potatoes sliced thin; when 
the butter is absorbed, sprinkle with salt and add enough milk 



296 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

to show between the slices, cover and let cook until the milk 
is nearly absorbed, then turn into a hot serving-dish. Sprinkle 
with fine-chopped parsley. 

POTATOES SCALLOPED WITH CHEESE 

Put a layer of sliced boiled potatoes in a buttered baking- 
dish, sprinkle with salt and paprika, and add a thin layer of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Continue in this order until the 
dish is filled. For about three cups of potatoes pour over a 
pint of thin white sauce, or milk to which one or two beaten 
eggs have been added; sprinkle the top with cracker-crumbs 
mixed with melted butter (half a cup of crumbs and a scant 
fourth a cup of butter), and let cook in the oven until the pota- 
toes are thoroughly heated and the crumbs browned. The 
oven should be quite slow, if eggs are used. American factory 
cheese may be used in place of the Parmesan. 

POTATOES BAKED WITH CHEESE (GERMANY) 

4 large cold, boiled potatoes. 4 eggs. 

I pint of cream. 3 ounces of cheese. 

Salt and paprika. 

Cut the potatoes into thin slices and arrange in layers in a 
buttered dish; sprinkle each layer with cheese, salt, and 
paprika and pour over a little of the eggs, beaten and mixed 
with the cream. Bake about half an hour. Serve as a lunch- 
eon dish; or at a family dinner with boiled ham, or broiled 
beefsteak. 

WHITE HASHED POTATOES 

Butter an omelet pan and put into it cold boiled potatoes 
chopped rather fine ; sprinkle with a little salt, scatter bits of 
butter over the top, and pour over a little white stock or hot 
water. Cover and cook slowly until thoroughly heated 
through. Turn out carefully into a hot dish without stirring. 
Care needs be taken that the potato be not browned, but the 
stock and butter absorbed. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

Chop six cold boiled potatoes very fine, adding half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Put one-fourth a cup 



J 



WHOLE POTATOES, FRIED ^97 

of fat into the frying-pan, and, when hot, put in the potatoes, 
and heat quickly and thoroughly. Press into one side of the 
pan to form an omelet. When well browned, drain off the fat 
and turn onto a dish. Fat tried out from salt pork is con- 
sidered the best. 

POTATO NESTS 

Fill the space between the wire baskets made for this pur- 
pose with raw potatoes, shredded or sliced, and fry one at a 
time in hot fat until tender and browned. Remove from the 
basket and drain on soft paper. Have ready potatoes, cut in 
small olive or ball shapes (French cutter) fried in hot fat, 
drained and sprinkled with salt. Dispose these in the nests 
and sprinkle with fine-chopped parsley. Serve on a folded 
napkin, or omit the napkin and surround with parsley. The 
wire baskets for shaping these nests come in several sizes. 
The small size is for individual service. The larger size is for 
serving three or four people. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Scrub and pare the potatoes and cut in eighths, lengthwise ; 
let stand in water until all are ready, then dry between towels 
as they are fried. Fry in a basket and but few at a time. 
Drain on soft paper and sprinkle with salt. Serve at once, 
as they retain their crispness but a short time. Avoid having 
the fat too hot. Often potatoes to be fried are soaked an hour 
or more in ice water; the question of soaking or not soaking 
cut potatoes in ice water before frying is a matter of individual 
taste. When sliced, and left to stand in water, a large quan- 
tity of starch is lost, and the potato is probably more crisp. 
In the other case, the pieces would be softer and more mealy. 

WHOLE POTATOES, BALLS, CURLS, ETC., FRIED 

Potatoes, pared whole, may be cooked in hot fat, but the 
fat should not be too hot, as the potatoes need cook about 
half an hour. If properly cooked the potatoes will be very 
mealy. Potatoes for frying are cut in many fanciful shapes. 
They make an attractive garnish for dishes of broiled meat. 



298 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



STEAM SQUASH SERVED IN SHELL 

Saw off the top of a sAiall, suitably-shaped Hubbard sqxiash, 
remove the seeds and stringy portion and steam the rest until 
tender. Carefully remove the pulp from the shell, keeping 
the large shell whole ; pass the pulp through a vegetable ricer, 
season with salt, pepper and butter and return to the shell; 
smooth the surface to a dome shape and score with a knife, 
then place in the oven a few moments to reheat. Serve on a 
folded napkin. Part of a second squash is needed to make a 
really handsome dish. 

STEAMED SQUASH AU GRATIN 

Steam or boil a small Hubbard squash, cut in halves, until 
tender. Let dry on the back of the range, then remove from 
the shell and pass through a squash strainer. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful of cream, the beaten 
yolk of one eggy and salt and pepper to season. Mix thor- 
oughly, and turn into a buttered baking-dish, rounding the 
mixture on the top. Cover with half a cup of cracker-crumbs, 
stirred into one-fourth a cup of melted butter, and bake nearly 
half an hour in a slow oven. After boiling or steaming, winter 
squash may also be mashed and seasoned with salt and pepper 
and butter; or it may be cut into small pieces and baked as 
potatoes. Summer squash, as also large cucumbers, may be 
pared and cooked with the roast in the same manner as Fran- 
conia potatoes. 

SUMMER SQUASH STUFFED WITH SHRIMP (CREOLE 
RECIPE. MRS. HARRIS, OF NEW ORLEANS) 

Take half-grown squash and simmer whole in water ten 
minutes. Cut them in halves, if small, in quarters, if large. 
Scrape out the interior, leaving the shells, however, thick 
enough to handle without breaking up. Remove seeds, if 
large. Press all superfluous moisture out of the vegetable 
pulp and add to it the following: to enough squash to serve 
six persons put one cup of bread or cracker-crumbs, one onion, 
and one tomato minced fine, one-fourth a clove of garlic, 



i 



CAULIFLOWER 299 

thyme, parsley, bay leaf, two cups of shrimp chopped fine, 
and two tablespoonfuls of lard. Fry the onion and shrimp 
lightly in the lard, and add to it the tomato and herbs. Into 
this turn the squash, which has been thoroughly mixed with 
the crumbs, also salt and pepper, and a beaten egg. Turn over 
and over with spoon, mixing it again and again. Let the 
whole cook for about ten minutes. Have the shells arranged 
in the baking-dish. Fill each, rounding nicely. Sprinkle 
with cracker-crumbs, mixed with melted butter, and bake 
until brown. Serve hot. 

The squash may be heaped upon a pie-plate, and so baked 
without the shells. Crab, minced ham, veal, — almost any- 
thing, in fact, which is savory — may take the place of the 
shrimps. Egg plant is stuffed in the same way, but needs a 
little longer boiling than squash. 

EGG PLANT 

Remove the skin and cut the plant into slices, one-fourth an 
inch thick. Sprinkle the slices with salt and pile them, one 
above another, and set a plate holding a weight upon the top. 
Let stand an hour to drain off the juice. Dip in eggy then in 
breadcrumbs and saut^, first on one side and then on the 
other, to a golden brown. 

CAULIFLOWER (STRONG JUICED) 

Trim off the outside leaves and cut the stalk even with the 
edible portion, to stand level. Let stand, head downward, in 
cold salted water half an hour to draw out insects that may be 
present. Steam or cook head downward and uncovered, 
in a large kettle of rapid-boiling, salted water until tender 
(about twenty minutes). Remove any scum that is present on 
the top of the water before lifting the cauliflower from the 
vessel. The cauliflower may be tied in a cheesecloth before 
cooking. Serve with cream, white. Bechamel, HoUandaise 
or tomato sauce. Cooked flowerets of cauliflower are used 
to garnish dishes of veal, chicken and sweetbread. 



300 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CAULIFLOWER A LA HUNTINGTON (BOSTON COOKING 

SCHOOL) 

Steam the cauliflower, prepared as above, in a tightly closed 
kettle until tender; separate into flowerets and pour over these 
the following sauce: mix one teaspoonful and a half of mus- 
tard, one teaspoonful and a fourth of salt, one teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar and one-fourth a teaspoonful of paprika; add 
the slightly beaten yolks of four eggs and one-fourth a cup 
of olive oil. When thoroughly mixed, add half a cup of weak 
vinegar, in which half a teaspoonful of fine-chopped shallot 
has infused five minutes. Cook over hot water until slightly 
thickened, remove from the fire, add half a tablespoonful of 
curry-powder, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and one 
teaspoonful of fine-chopped parsley. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN IN CHEESE SHELL (ENTREE) 

Break a cooked cauliflower into flowerets ; put a layer in a 
shell of Edam cheese, and cover with cream sauce; alternate 
layers of cauliflower and sauce until the shell is filled, having 
the last layer of sauce ; sprinkle with buttered cracker-crumbs 
and set the shell in the oven, to brown the crumbs. Serve a 
scraping of cheese with each portion of cauliflower. Celery, 
Brussels sprouts, cabbage or macaroni are also served from 
a cheese shell. Either white or tomato sauce may be used. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH MUSHROOM (VEGETABLE 

ENTREE) 

Steam the cauliflower, prepared in the usual manner, until 
tender, separate into flowerets, and dispose each on a round of 
buttered toast ; chop six mushroom caps and sautd five minutes 
in three tablespoonfuls of butter; add three tablespoonfuls of 
flour and, when blended with the butter, add gradually a cup 
and a half of white stock; stir until the boiling point is reached; 
after all the broth has been added let simmer ten minutes, 
then remove from the fire and stir in the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten and diluted with the juice of a lemon; season with salt 
and pepper and, if the heat of the sauce does not suffice to 
cook the egg, return to the fire over hot water for five minutes, 
stirring constantly meanwhile. Pour this over the flowerets 



J 



STUFFED CABBAGE 301 

of cauliflower on the toast, sprinkle with buttered crumbs 
and brown quickly in a very hot oven. If served on a large 
dish, garnish with mushrooms stuffed and baked. Served 
individually, omit the garnishing. 

FRIED CAULIFLOWER 

Clean and separate a cauliflower into its flowerets, and trim 
. the stalks to a point. Let cook five minutes in boiling water; 
drain, and let cook again in fresh boiling water until tender, 
adding a level tablespoonful of salt to the water; drain again, 
and roll each floweret in sifted breadcrumbs, cover with a 
beaten egg, diluted with two tablespoonfuls of water, drain 
off the eggj and roll a second time in breadcrumbs ; or dip in 
batter. When ready to serve, fry to a golden brown in deep 
fat, and drain on soft paper. Serve piled on a folded napkin, 
with sprigs of parsley between the flowerets, or serve as an 
entree with sauce Tartare or tomato sauce. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS WITH BUTTER 

Boil one quart of Brussels sprouts in two quarts of salted 
water, about fifteen minutes, or until tender. Let drain on a 
cloth, then toss in a frying-pan with a scant fourth a cup of 
butter, until the butter is absorbed; sprinkle with one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and a dash of salt; mix and 
arrange in a mound on a serving-dish. Surround with points 
of toasted or fried bread. 

CABBAGE (STRONG JUICED) 

Remove the bruised outside leaves, and cut in halves or 
quarters; cut out the hard centre; soak in salt and water. 
Cook in the same manner as cauliflower either steaming or 
boiling. Cabbage is particularly good served au gratin. 
Use layers of cooked cabbage, chopped, and white sauce; 
grated cheese may be added to the layers, thus making a very 
substantial dish. 

STUFFED CABBAGE 

Cut out the stalk end of a head of cabbage, leaving a hollow 
shell. Chop two pounds of uncooked beef with a slice of 



302 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

bacon and onion; add one cup of breadcrumbs soaked and 
wrung dry, one beaten egg, salt, pepper, and mace. Shape 
into balls, arrange in the cabbage, add strips of sweet pepper, 
and steam until the cabbage is tender. Serve with tomato 
sauce. Cooked meat may be used by adding more eggs,— 
whole eggs or the whites, — to hold the meat together. 

ONIONS (STRONG JUICED) 

Unless the onions be very mild or young, when boiling 
change the water two or three times, replenishing each time 
with cold water and draining, when the boiling point is reached. 
Cook until very tender. Drain and serve with butter or cream, 
or a white sauce. Onions left over may be cut in thin slices 
and disposed in a buttered gratin dish in layers with white 
sauce, then covered with buttered crumbs and set into the 
oven, to reheat and brown the crumbs. Onion purde is par- 
ticularly good with mutton chops. 

STUFFED ONIONS 

Cook ten or twelve onions in salted water, changing the 
water twice, about an hour, or until nearly tender ; drain and 
cool. Take out the centre of each onion without disturbing 
the outside layers; to this add six mushrooms, sauted five 
minutes in butter; chop fine, add half a cup of breadcrumbs 
and cream or white sauce to mix; season with salt, pepper 
and butter and fill the open space in the onions with the mix- 
ture. Put in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle the top with 
three-fourths a cup of cracker-crumbs, stirred into a fourth a 
cup of melted butter, and bake about twenty minutes, basting 
carefully with a little butter and hot water. The onions may 
also be stuffed with pork sausage. Thus stuffed they become 
an appropriate garnish for roast turkey or spare-rib of pork. 

ONION SOUFFLE 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan and add 
one tablespoonful of flour, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a dash of paprika. When smoothly mixed, add one cup 
of milk. When the sauce boils, add half a cup of stale bread- 






TURNIP PUREE 303 

crumbs (from centre of loaf), a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
one cup of cold boiled onions, chopped fine, and the yolk of 
an egg well beaten. Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff, 
and fold them into the onion-mixture. Bake in a buttered 
pudding-dish, in a moderate oven, about fifteen minutes. 
Serve at once with or without cream sauce. 

TURNIP CHARLOTTE (TURNIPS, STRONG JUICED) 

Cook slices of carrot and turnips one-fourth an inch thick 
until tender, drain and use them to line a buttered charlotte 
mould. Boil white turnips until tender; drain, and press 
through a fine sieve. To one cup of pur^e add one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of white pepper, a grating of nut- 
meg, one-fourth a cup of thick cream, and, lastly, the stiff- 
beaten whites of three eggs. Bake in the decorated mould, 
standing in a pan of water, until the centre becomes firm. 
Turn from the mould and serve with veloute, white or Becha- 
mel sauce. 

TURNIP PUREE 

Scrub and pare about six white turnips. Cut them into 
slices, cover with cold water, and bring quickly to the boiling 
point. Drain and blanch by rinsing in cold water, then cover 
with salted boiling water, and cook until tender. Drain and 
turn into a cloth, and wring out the moisture. Pass through 
a squash-strainer or, better still, a pur^e sieve, then return 
to the fire to heat. Melt three tables poonfuls of butter, 
cook in this two tablespoonfuls of flour, and, when frothy, 
add the turnip and one-fourth a cup of thick cream, with salt 
and pepper. Stir constantly until the mixture boils, then turn 
into the serving-dish. Chestnuts, cauliflower, onions, peas, 
beans, celery, spinach, etc., all make good purees for garnish 
of fish or meat dishes. The recipe given above will, with 
minor changes, evident to all, serve for any pur^e. The 
method of sifting is the same in any case, i.e. : with a wooden 
spoon rub the material through a strong wire sieve of medium 
mesh, first placing the sieve firmly bottom upwards over a 
plate and scraping the material from the under side as it 



304 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

passes through. In some cases, as always with meat and fish, 
the vegetable will pass through the sieve more readily, if it 
be first mixed with the sauce, etc. 

TURNIP BALLS, POULETTE SAUCE 

With a French potato cutter cut out a pint of balls from 
large white turnips. Put over the fire in cold water, acid- 
ulated with one or two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or vine- 
gar, and let cook five minutes after boiling begins, then drain, 
rinse in cold water and cook until tender in chicken broth. 
Skim out the turnip balls and thicken the broth with a table- 
spoonful and a half, each, of butter and flour, creamed to- 
gether, — there should be about a cup and a half of broth — 
let simmer ten minutes, then add the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
diluted with half a cup of cream. Season to taste with salt 
and white pepper, add the balls and let stand over hot water 
until very hot. A tablespoonful of lemon juice improves 
this dish for some. If a French cutter be not at hand, cut 
the turnips in cubes of uniform size, or cut out cylinders with 
an apple corer, then cut these into half-inch lengths. 

TURNIPS IN CREAM 

Peel and slice the turnips; blanch and cook until nearly 
tender in salted water. Drain and cut into cubes, one-foUrth 
an inch thick. Simmer ten or fifteen minutes in sweet cream. 
Season with salt, sugar, and white pepper, add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and shake the pan until the butter 
is blended with the other ingredients. Serve in a hot dish. 

BEETS 

Wash beets carefully to avoid breaking the skin and so 
loss of color while boiling. Boil rapidly until tender. New 
beets will cook in one or two hours. Old beets can hardlv 
be cooked enough. When tender drain and cover with cold 
water to loosen the skins. The skins should be removed with 
the hands. Season with salt, pepper, and butter. If the 
beets be large, cut in slices. Beets left over may be covered 
with vinegar and kept for several days. Beets baked in a hot 



FLAGEOLETS 305 

oven arc particularly good. When cooked cut these in slic^es, 
dress with butter, pepper and salt. 

STRING BEANS 

Remove all the strings from the beans. Lay several pods 
together on a meat board and cui all at once into small pieces 
of equal length, cutting straight across or diagonally. Cook 
in salted boiling water until tender; drain, add salt, pepper 
and a generous piece of butter and toss together thoroughly 
while they are standing on the back of the range ; cream, meat 
juice, chopped parsley, onion juice, lemon juice, bits of red or 
green pepper sauted in butter, tomato, poulette or soubise 
sauce are all exceptionally good additions to a dish of cooked 
string-beans* Or the liquid in which the beans are cooked 
may be thickened with a white roux; when the addition of 
a beaten yolk of an egg with a little cream gives a more sub- 
stantial dish. 

STRINGED BEANS WITH BACON 

Cut one or two slices of tender bacon into cubes and saut6 
to a delicate brown, then add the hot cooked beans with a few 
drops of onion juice; toss them about a moment or two, then 
serve. 

LIMA BEANS 

Cook in boiling salted water until tender, drain and season 
in any of the ways given for string beans. 

FLAGEOLETS 

French beans (flageolets) come to us dried and canned. 
The cost of the dried bean is about thirty- five cents per pound ; 
one-fourth a pound is enough for a family of five, at a meal 
where some other substantial is served. To preserve the green 
color, set to cook, without soaking, in cold salted water; 
bring quickly to the boiling point, change this water for other 
boiling water, salted as before, and replenish with boiling 
water as needed. Let simmer until perfectly tender. Season 
with pepper and butter; onion juice or lemon juice, and 
chopped parsley may be added at discretion. Flageolets 
make a good purde. 



i 



1 



3o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



ASPARAGUS (SWEET JUICED) 

In its native habitat, on the shores of the Mediterranean, 
asparagus sends up its delicate shoots twice in the year; but, 
cultivated in our colder clime, this wild seashore plant has a 
short season. On this account, as well as for its diuretic 
qualities and the general favor with which it is received, we 
shall do well to serve it often while it is in season. 

Men who have written on cookery expatiate to great extent 
on the cooking of asparagus. Thudichum insists that it is 
"almost invariably overboiled by modem cooks." He says 
that cooks should remember the Roman saying, which becomes 
applicable when anything is to be done quckly: "Do it in 
no more time than is necessary to boil asparagus. " 

Asparagus should be fully cooked, and yet each stalk should 
be left intact and possess a certain crispness. Sir Henry- 
Thompson advises that "the stalks be cut of exactly equal 
lengths, tied in a bunch and boiled, standing tips upward in a 
deep saucepan ; nearly two inches of the tips should be out of 
water, the steam sufficing to cook them, while the hard, stalky 
part is rendered soft and succulent by the longer boiling which 
this plan permits. " 

By the latter authority, then, a longer time is required for 
cooking asparagus than the conventional twenty minutes 
almost invariably prescribed by most writers, and our own 
experience is in harmony with this view. Fresh-cut aspara- 
gus, grown in warm, moist weather, may be cooked in the 
conventional time ; but after it has been kept, or when it has 
been grown in a dry, hot season, the time of cooking must be 
perceptibly lengthened. 

The German frau adds a small piece of butter — a teaspoon- 
ful to a quart — to the water in which both asparagus and peas 
are to be cooked; a sf^rig of mint is also added to the peas. 
These are valuable additions, when the quality of the vege- 
table is doubtful, otherwise there is no material gain. Salt 
added to the water heightens the green color of both these 
vegetables, and this condiment is not unpleasing to most 
palates. 



ASPARAGUS BAKED WITH CHEESE 307 

The tender tips of asparagus, called *' asparagus peas" are 
served in consomm^, in omelets, either with or without sauce, 
and in scrambled eggs. Three asparagus stalks, held in two 
rings cut from cooked carrots, make an appropriate garnish 
for roast mutton. 

Opinions differ as to the serving of asparagus with toast, 
but as the stalks will not absorb all the liquid in which they 
are cooked, no matter how carefully the cooking is carried out, 
and as this is too valuable to wastje, the toast is, sometimes 
at least, worthy of consideration. 

ASPARAGUS EN BRANCHES 

Scrape the coarse scales from the branches, cut in equal 
lengths and tie in bunches. Cook the asparagus in a small 
quantity of water, drain and dispose on a well-toasted and 
buttered slice of bread. Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs to a smooth paste, add one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt 
and a dash of pepper ; then gradually beat into the egg enough 
butter, softened but not melted, to make a sauce of the con- 
sistency of mayonnaise dressing. Mask the asparagus with 
the sauce and serve at once. Bechamel, white, Hollandaise, 
and Bemaise sauce (hot or cold) are all used with asparagus. 

ASPARAGUS BAKED WITH CHEESE 

I bunch of asparagtis. i cup of asparagus stock. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. The yolks of two eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. Grated Parmesan cheese. 

I cup of white stock or Buttered cracker-crumbs. 

Scrape the scales from the stalks, wash and tie the asparagus 
in a bunch. Cook in boiling salted water until nearly tender 
and drain carefully. Make a sauce of the butter, flour, sea- 
soning stock and cream ; add the yolks and two tablespoonfuls 
of cheese. Stir the sauce until the cheese melts, but do not 
let it boil. Put the asparagus and sauce into a buttered, 
oval baking-dish in layers, having the asparagus-tips at one 
end of the dish and covering only two-thirds the length of the 
stalks with sauce. Sprinkle each layer of sauce with cheese 
having the last layer sauce. Cover with buttered cracker- 



3o3 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

crumbs and set the dish in the oven long enough to brown the 
crumbs. The ends of the stalks being uncovered avail in 
serving the dish to advantage. The tender portions of the 
asparagus, cut in half-inch lengths before cooking, may be 
used instead of the whole stalks. 

ASPARAGUS PATTIES 

Make a sauce of three level tablespoonfuls, each, of butter 
and flour, and half a cup, each, of chicken broth, cream and 
the water in which a bunch of asparagus has been boiled. 
Add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, salt and pepper, and a bunch of hot asparagus, cut in 
small pieces and cooked until tender. Serve in hot puff 
paste shells, in cases made of fritter batter or in bread crous- 
tades. 

ASPARAGUS, SPANISH STYLE 

Cook the asparagus tied in a bunch, the tips out of the 
water, or cut the tender portion in small pieces, put all but 
the tips over the fire to cook and when partly cooked add the 
tips. Drain the asparagus and turn into a serving-dish; add 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar or lemon juice to the water, 
and in it poach three or four eggs ; place the eggs in the aspar- 
agus and pour over the whole French dressing, to which a 
teaspoonful, each, of fine-chopped parsley, capers and cucum- 
ber pickles have been added. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS, MOUSSELINE SAUCE 

Prepare and cook as usual. When tender drain, and serve 
on a slice of toast, pouring the sauce over the asparagus. 
Surround with fanciful-shaped bits of bread, saut<$d in butter. 
For the sauce beat two tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream; 
add the yolks of four eggs, one at a time ; then add two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt 
and a dash of paprika. Cook over hot water until' the sauce 
thickens, then add two tablespoonfuls of butter in three 
parts, incorporating each part before another is added. Lastly 
beat in one-fourth a cup of thick cream. Serve when thor- 
oughly heated. The sauce should be thick and frothy. 



\ 



STEAMED SQUASH SERVED IN THE SHELL, (See page I(p8.) 



SPIXACH IS A CROWN OF EGGS, (Set p 



POTATO FOR GAKSISHING. 
Mailed potato tosnta, boilcil poUto ball aboi-e sniinkhsl nil 
PyrarnidB of mashed f--- ' 



SPINACH WITH SARDINES 309 



SPINACH 

Spinach, which is quickly and easily grown, is in the market 
at all seasons of the year except a short time in mid-summer 
and mid-winter. When young the stems may be retained, 
but if at all old the leaves only should be used. Kitchen 
scissors are useful in preparing this vegetable for cooking. 
Careful cleansing is needed; five or six applications of water 
will render it none too free of sand. The smaller the quantity 
of water used in cooking the better, and this should be re- 
tained for use in some way, as it contains the salts in com- 
position, the most valuable constituent of the spinach. As 
considerable water clings to the leaves in washing, but little 
more needs be added. A gentle simmering will cook the 
tender leaves very quickly. Salt should be added to preserve 
the color. The French call this vegetable the broom of the 
stomach. 

SPINACH IN A CROWN OF EGGS 

Cook a peck of spinach in boiling salted water until tender, 
then chop fine. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, and 
cook in it, without browning, two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Add a grating of nutmeg and the spinach. When well blended 
add half a cup of hot stock, or water in which the asparagus 
was cooked. Form into a mound and garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs. The white of egg, cut from the half-eggs to make 
them stand level, may be chopped fine and massed on the top 
of the mound (see illustration). 

SPINACH WITH SARDINES 

Heat one cup of grated breadcrumbs in one-fourth a cup of 
butter; add a peck of spinach leaves, cooked and chopped, 
and the flesh of a dozen or more sardines. Mix and add broth 
if needed, also salt and pepper. When hot form into an ob- 
long. Garnish with slices of eggs, and place sardines over the 
top. Serve as a luncheon dish. Cooked spinach makes a 
good mound against which broiled chops may be served. 



3IO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



SPINACH A LA BECHAMEL 

Drain the spinach and chop fine, or pass through a sieve. 
Return to the saucepan, and for each pint of spinach add a 
tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper. Stir over the fire 
until the spinach is hot; then add the beaten yolk of an egg 
diluted with one-third a cup of cream. Stir and cook a 
moment or until blended. 

SPINACH BALLS (ADAPTED PROM "GOLDEN AGE 

COOK BOOK") 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour and half a teaspoonful of sugar. When blended, add 
a tablespoonful of cream and three-fourths a cup of cooked 
spinach, chopped fine. Beat well, remove from the fire and 
add two eggs, one at a time. Season with salt and pepper, to 
taste, and a few grains of mace. Butter a tablespoon and fill 
with the spinach mixture, making it level with the edge of the 
spoon, and poach in a saucepan of boiling water four or five 
minutes or until firm. The water must not boil hard, but 
simply simmer very gently at one side. Six or more balls 
may be cooked at one time. Let drain in a colander while 
making a cream sauce; reheat the balls in the sauce, and ser\''e. 
A teaspoonful of the sauce with three or four capers may be 
placed on the top of each ball, and the rest of the sauce 
poured around the balls. 

CELERY WITH SAUCE 

Trim away the outside leaves of three heads of celery, cut 
the roots to a point and trim off the tops of the stalks, leaving 
the heads six inches in length ; wash and blanch ten minutes 
in boiling water, drain, cover with cold water, and wash care- 
fully. Tie the heads in a bundle and put in a stew-pan with 
a pint and a half of boiling stock or water, or half of eaxrh. 
Add one-fourth a cup of fat from the top of the stock, half a 
carrot, half an onion, a teaspoonful of salt and a few grains 
of cayenne; cover and let simmer an hour or until tender. 
Drain out the celery, strain the liquid, and remove the fat; 



PEAS 311 

use the liquid in making about a cup of brown sauce. Pour 
this over the celery. Garnish with cutlet-shaped pieces of 
bread fried in butter. 

CREAMED CELERY IN CHEESE SHELL 

Cut the cleaned celery stalks in pieces an inch long, and let 
cook in boiling water to cover until tender. For three cups 
of pieces make a pint of white sauce, using the water in which 
the celery was cooked, with cream as the liquid. Turn into 
the shell of an Edam cheese, cover the top with half a cup of 
cracker-crumbs, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, and let brown in the oven. Serve a light scraping of 
cheese with each service of celery. For a more elaborate 
service, add parboiled oysters with the celery, and use the 
oyster liquor in making the sauce as a part of the liquid. 

CHEESE AND CELERY AU GRATIN 

I pint of cooked celery. 3-4 a cup of grated cheese. 

I pint of white sauce. 3-4 a cup of cracker-crumbs. 

1-3 a cup of melted butter. 

Have the celery cut in half-inch pieces before cooking. 
Use the water in which it was cooked with white stock and 
cream in making the sauce. Put alternate layers of celery 
and sauce in a buttered au gratin dish and sprinkle each layer 
with cheese. Cover the top with the cracker-crumbs mixed 
with the melted butter and any cheese remaining. Set in the 
oven to brown the crumbs. Garnish with curled celery, 
celery leaves, and quarters of hard-boiled eggs. 

PEAS (SWEET JUICED) 

If the pods are clean and fresh, cook part of them with water 
to cover half an hour. Strain the water through a cheese- 
cloth, reheat and use as the liquid in which to cook the peas. 
Freshly gathered tender peas should cook in twenty minutes. 
In cooking peas use no more liquid than it takes to cover them. 
season w^ith salt, pepper and butter. Cream, broth or meat 
extract may be added. A little sugar is sometimes an im- 
provement. Cubes of carrots, cooked separately, also are 



312 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

added to a dish of peas. This is a German custom. Peas 
alone or combined with carrots, turnips and potatoes, are also 
served in cream sauce or in a curry sauce. 

PEA TIMBALES 

Mix one cup of pea pulp with two beaten eggs, a few drops 
of onion juice, two tablespoon fuls of thick cream, one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, two-thirds a teaspoonful of salt, 
one-eighth a teaspoonful of black pepper, and a few grains of 
cayenne. Turn into buttered moulds and bake in a pan of 
hot water until firm. Serve with one cup of white sauce, 
to which has been added one-third a cup of cooked and drained 
peas. 

These may be made of fresh, dried or canned peas. In sea- 
soning a teaspoonful of fine-chopped mint leaves is approved by 
many. For variety or tlie sake of color add to the sauce, with 
the peas, cubes or figures cut from carrot, cooked tender. 

SWEET CORN 

Com on the cob is thought to be sweeter and better flavored, 
if it be cooked without disturbing the husk; but, as the re- 
moval of the silk and husk is inconvenient after cooking, it 
is quite customary to strip down the husk, break the corn from 
the stem, then remove the silk, replace the husk, tie the end 
tightly, and let cook in milk and water, half and half, about 
fifteen minutes after boiling begins. Serve in the husks. 
The liquid may be used for a corn or mock bisque soup. 

GREEN CORN CUSTARD WITH BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut com from young ears to make one cup ; add to four eggs 
beaten slightly with half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
paprika, a few drops of onion juice and a cup and a quarter of 
milk. Bake in buttered moulds in hot water. When iirni 
turn from the moulds and surround with slices of broiled 
tomatoes. Serve with cream sauce. When green com is out 
of season, kornlet mav be used. Three-fourths a cup will be 
enough. 



i 



SUCCOTASH 313 

KENTUCKY CORN CROQUETTES 

Grate enough com to make one quart of pulp ; add one pint 
of cream or milk and cook twenty minutes in a double-boiler. 
Add two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and grated cheese, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth a teaspoonful of pepper and 
two well-beaten eggs. Set aside to cool. When cold form 
into two-inch squares one inch thick. Egg-and-breadcrumb 
and fry in hot fat; or bake in the oven until brown. If 
the mixture be too moist to shape, add a little rolled 
cracker meal. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS (MOCK OYSTERS) 

To one pint of grated corn pulp add enough sifted cracker- 
crumbs to hold the mixture together, also half a teaspoonful 
of baking-powder with salt and pepper to taste. Drop the 
mixture from a teaspoon into hot fat, making the fritters the 
size of an oyster. Fry to a light brown color and drain on soft 
paper. Serve on a folded napkin. 

SUCCOTASH 

Scrape, wash, and score in quarter-inch slices a quarter of 
a pound of salt-pork. Cover with boiling water and let sim- 
mer five or six hours, or until nearly tender. Add one pint of 
fresVshelled Lima beans and more water, if needed. When 
the beans become tender, add one pint of sweet-corn pulp. 
Cook about fifteen minutes, and add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, or a little sweet cream, and salt if needed. Pour the 
succotash into the serving-dish, slice the pork in the scour- 
ings, and serve at once. This dish is particularly good, pre- 
pared with dried beans and either dried or canned com. If 
dried vegetables be used, let soak over night in cold water. 
To remove the pulp from the ears of com without the hull, 
with a sharp knife cut down through the centre of each row of 
kernels, then with the back of the knife press out the pulp, 
leaving the hull on the cob. For a change, add a cup of 
reduced tomato pulp, seasoning accordingly; or an onion 
may be cooked with the beans and removed before the dish 
is sent to the table. 



314 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PARSNIPS 

Parsnips are at their best in the spring (the sweet flavor 
developed in the ground through the winter being entirely 
wanting in the fall). To prepare, wash and scrape until dean 
and cook until tender — it will take about an hour — cut in 
halves they will cook in less time. When tender put into a 
hot serving-dish, sprinkle with salt and put over them butter, 
in bits. Or simply scrub the parsnips with a brush and cook 
until tender, then throw them into cold water to remove the 
skins ; cut in slices, dip in flour and saut(5 in hot salt-pork fat. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS 

Mash the parsnips, after boiling and removing the skin, 
season with salt, pepper and butter. Flour the hands or 
dip them in cold water and shape the mixture into small cake^;. 
Dip these cakes in flour and sautd in hot salt-pork fat or butter. 

CARROTS 

Wash and scrape thoroughly, cut in halves, in balls or 
other shapes, boil until tender in boiling salted water, drain 
and toss in butter, salt and pepper, or in a maitre d'hotel 
butter. Carrots cut into fanciful shapes may be served alone, 
or in combination with other vegetables, in brown, white or 
curry sauce, or in salads. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Use either fresh or canned tomatoes. If fresh tomatoes are 
at hand, dip them into boiling water a moment to remove the 
skins. Cut them in slices and stew in an agate-ware or porce- 
lain dish until tender, adding meanwhile for a quart of toma- 
toes half a cup of fine breadcrumbs, sts>le but not dried. 
Season with a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
pepper to taste, and two or three tablespoonfuls of butter. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES AND ONIONS (MRS. MCEWBN, 

OHIO) 

Use very tender new onions, or onions previously cooked 
and left over. If new onions are selected, cut in thin slices 
and saut6 in hot butter a few moments without discoloring 



J 



STUFFED TOMATOES A LA CAROLINA 315 

the onion. Butter an agate serving dish ; put in a layer of sliced 
tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle with but- 
tered bread or cracker-crumbs, then add a layer of onion 
slices; continue in the same order, having the last layer of 
crumbs, until all the ingredients are used. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven half to three-fourths an hour. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

 

Cut the tomatoes in halves without removing the skin, 
dip in oil or melted butter, then season with salt and pepper, 
and dip in fine cracker-crumbs. Put between a well-oiled 
tomato or oyster broiler, and cook until the crumbs are brown, 
turning often, so as to avoid burning the crumbs. 

STUFFED TOMATOES A LA SICILIENNE 

Select a dozen smooth tomatoes of same size. Remove a 
round piece about an inch in diameter from the stem end of 
each. Remove the seeds and pulp, to leave a shell, and chop 
the pulp fine. Put into a saucepan four tablespoonfuls of 
butter and saut6 in this half an onion chopped fine, then add a 
pint of chopped mushrooms and stir and cook until the moist- 
ure evaporates; now add the tomato pulp, half a cup of lean 
ham, cooked and chopped fine, half a cup of breadcrumbs 
(stale not dried), a few leaves of sweet herbs, tied in a parsley 
branch, salt and pepper with broth or thickened sauce to 
moisten, stir and cook until thoroughly heated, then remove 
the parsley branch and fill the tomatoes. The mixture should 
not be too moist. Set the tomatoes in a baking-pan, and 
sprinkle with grated cheese and buttered crumbs. Bake 
about half an hour in a moderate oven. 

STUFFED TOMATOES A LA CAROLINA 

Select a dozen round tomatoes of the same size. Remove 
a piece about an inch in diameter from the blossom end of 
each and take out the seeds. Cook a cup of rice in a quart 
of well-seasoned broth, with half a green pepper cut fine. 
When the rice is nearly tender, add half a cup of butter 
and mix thoroughly, but carefully, to avoid breaking tlie 
grains of rice. Fill the tomato shells with the rice; put back 



3i6 PR.VCTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the covers, set in a baking>pan, stem end down» brush over 
the outside with oHve oil or melted butter and bake half an 
hour in a moderate oven. Remove carefully to a ^•^-ving- 
dish and pour around the tomatoes a cup of highly seasoned 
tomato sauce. 

CANNED TOMATOES WITH SAVORY CUSTARD 

Mix together one pint of tomatoes (canned), one-fourth a 
cup of grated breadcrumbs (centre of loaf passed through a 
colander), one tablespoonful of fine-chopped onion, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste; pour into a 
buttered baking-dish. Beat four eggs, add half a teaspoonful 
of salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a cup and a half of milk; 
pour over the tomato mixture, and bake in a slow oven until 
set (about three-fourths an hour). 

CANNED-TOMATO-AND-CHEESE PUDDING 

Mix one pint of canned tomatoes, one cup of grated bread- 
crumbs, one-third a cup of grated cheese (American factor/ 
cheese), half a teaspoonful of salt, and pepper to taste, and 
pour into a buttered baking-dish. Mix one-third a cup of 
breadcrumbs with one tablespoonful of melted butter and 
two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, spread over the top 
and bake about twenty minutes. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

Wash and scrape the desired number of artichokes. Cover 
with boiling salted water and cook until tender (about half 
an hour): drain, dust with salt, and set on the back of the 
range to evaporafe the moisture. Serve with melted butter, 
or with white or Bechamel sauce. 

SALSIFY 

This vegetable is usually scraped before cooking, and much 
care is necessary — soaking and cooking in acidulated water, 
etc. — to keep it from discoloring. A better plan would be to 
scrub the roots carefully — a vegetable brush is indispensable 
in cleaning all root vegetables — and cook without scraping; 
then peel carefully and cut in small pieces before sending to 



MUSHROOMS 317 

the table. Salsify may be served with butter and seasonings, 
but it is better when dressed with a white sauce. It is also 
served au gratin. A teaspoonful of lemon juice may be added 
to the sauce, or sprinkled over the cooked salsify, before the 
sauce is poured over it. It is particularly good served au 
gratin. 

OKRA 

Pixxnire young and tender pods (see Okra Soup) and cut off 
both ends to make the pods of uniform length (about two 
inches). Blanch the pods, then lay them in a saucepan, 
add hot stock just to cover, and let simmer until tender and 
the stock is reduced. Serve on a hot plate dressed with 
Bechamel, HoUandaise or any sauce used with asparagus. 
Garnish with sippets of toast-points, or cutlet shapes. A 
little lemon juice should be added to a Bechamel or a drawn 
butter sauce that is to be served with okra. 

OKRA SAUTE (CREOLE STYLE) 

Chop a peeled onion, a clove of garlic, and half a red or 
green sweet-pepper pod, and saut^ in a little butter without 
browning; add six or eight tomatoes, peeled and cut in quar- 
ters, and let simmer half an hour, then add about a dozen 
boiled okra pods ; cover the pan and let simmer until the mix- 
ture thickens. Season with salt. Serve on slices of hot 
buttered toast. 

MUSHROOMS 

For centuries epicures have sung the praises of mushrooms 
as an article of food and devised choice recipes for their prep- 
aration. But it was left to the present generation to call 
them the "beefsteak of the vegetable kingdom" and to assert 
that " mushrooms contain the same nutritive value as meat. " 
By comparing the composition of mushrooms and of meat 
(see headings of chapters on Vegetables and Beef) the truth 
or falsity of such statements can be easily verified. 

By the late analysis at the agricultural experiment stations 
it would seem, as far as nutritive value is concerned, that 
mushrooms rank higher than most green vegetables and are 
about on a par with green peas and beans. 



3i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

At present the price of cultivated mushrooms places them 
in the list of luxuries; and as all mushrooms, particularly 
those growing wild, spoil very quickly and must of necessity 
be cooked soon after gathering, it would seem that fungi can- 
not be listed as a standard article of food. They may be 
successfully dried or canned at home; and either in this con- 
dition, or when fresh gathered, they may avail to give a pleas- 
ing variety to tlie dietary or, in small quantities, add relish to 
many an otherwise tasteless dish. 

The mushroom, Agaricus campesiris, which is cultivated 
for the market in hot-houses and cellars, is also found wild; 
the death cup, poisonous Aminita, the poisonous principle of 
which is one of the tox-albumins (the poison which produces 
death in cholera and diphtheria and for which there is no 
known antidote), belongs to the same family: fungi with gills. 
The various members of this family have so many things in 
common that none but an expert can say with certainty this 
is edible, that is not. 

The risks attendant upon the eating of poisonous mush- 
rooms are too serious to warrant any other than those who 
have become proficient — by the most careful observation and 
study — in the exact classification of fungi, in attempting to 
gather wild mushrooms for the table. 

Exceptions may be made in the case of amateurs who have 
learned to distinguish full grown clavaria (coral mushrooms), 
puff-balls, and morels ; these belong to families in which there 
are no known poisonous species; they have "hall marks" by 
which, after passing the button stage of growth, it is possible 
to distinguish them with certainty and, if they be fresh and 
free from insects, the amateur may gather and eat them 
with impunity. As to methods of determining the character 
of other species of mushrooms, there are none save actual 
knowledge of the most minute characteristics of the different 
groups or genera. 

The silver spoon test cannot be relied upon, in fact, it is no 
test at all, as certain varieties of both poisonous and edible 
mushrooms will turn silver black. The novice must discard 
all button mushrooms and all mushrooms with swollen basf 



GREEN CORN CUSTARD WITH BROILED TOMATOES. 




CREAMED MACARONI IN CHEESE SHELL. (Seepmgij: 



MUSHROOMS COOKED UNDER GLASS. 



STEWED MUSHROOMS 319 

surrounded with any sort of an envelope. Button mushrooms 
are not developed sufficiently to be accurately known and 
some of the poisonous varieties have an enlarged base. 

PREPARATION OF MUSHROOMS FOR COOKING 

Trim off the earthy end of the stalk, and wipe the cap with 
a damp cloth (avoid washing when possible, as soaking in water 
tends to destroy the flavor). If the skin be tough, remove by 
peeling. The stems and the skin upon the caps of the common 
mushroom, Agaricus campestris, are tough and require longer 
cooking than does the flesh of the cap. On this account the 
peeled caps are often used in one dish and the trimmings, 
chopped fine, are added as a flavor to some other dish. If 
not needed for immediate use the trimmings may be dried 
in the warming oven and stored in a tight-closed bottle or bag, 
for future use. 

Many think that the peculiar mushroom flavor is heightened 
or brought out more fully by first of all sauteingthe mushrooms, 
prepared for cooking, in a little hot butter. Some ways of 
cooking mushrooms are better adapted to one variety than 
to another. Occasionally, to prevent discoloring, mushrooms 
are sprinkled with lemon juice after being peeled or broken 
into pieces; this, however, detracts from the mushroom flavor. 

TO KEEP MUSHROOMS TEMPORARILY 

Nina Marshall in "The Mushroom Book" is authority for 
the following: **To keep mushrooms temporarily, cleanse, 
remove the parts to be rejected, rinse in cold water the parts 
to be used, dry with a cloth, then put in boiling water and 
keep boiling for five or ten minutes. Drain and wipe dry. " 
Thus prepared, the water in which the mushrooms are cooked 
should be retained for use in sauce or soup. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS 

Saut^ the peeled caps, broken in pieces if large, in a little 
hot butter; add thin cream enough to rather more than half 
cover, cover the saucepan and let simmer very gently about 
twenty minutes. Serve with crackers, puff paste diamonds, 



320 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

or sippets of toast. Milk or stock may take the place of the 
cream and a little thickening of roux, or flour and water, 
may be added, when the mushrooms are half-cooked. 

SCALLOPED MUSHROOMS 

Peel the mushrooms and break them into pieces. If it be 
desired to serve them very white, throw the pieces, sprinkled 
with lemon juice, into boiling water; allow them to stand two 
or three minutes, then pass into cold water. Dry carefully 
and saut^ in hot butter three or four minutes. To two cups 
of mushrooms add three tablespoonfuls of flour and half a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Stir and cook until the flour 
has become absorbed by the butter, then add one cup of stock, 
milk or cream. Stir^until the sauce boils, then simmer very 
gently ten minutes. Add one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
a dash of paprika, and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt. 
Remove from the fire. Beat the yolk of an egg with two 
tablespoonfuls of milk or cream and stir into the mixture. 
Fill buttered shells with the preparation. Stir one cup of 
cracker-crumbs into one-third a cup of melted butter, and 
spread the crumbs over the top of the preparation. Let the 
dish stand in the oven long enough to brown the crumbs. 

PUFF BALLS 

All puff balls are edible when gathered at the white stage. 
Wipe carefully, cut off the base, then peel. Cut in slices about 
an inch in thickness. Season with salt and pepper, and saute 
in a little butter, or dip in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and 
fry to a golden brown, in smoking hot fat. Perhaps they are 
more delicate broiled. In this case, season with salt and pep- 
per, dredge lightly with flour, and broil over a fire not too 
bright. Remove from the broiler, spread with butter, and 
serve on a hot platter. Puff balls are particularly good when 
sauted in bacon fat, or broiled and served with bacon as a 

garnish. 

PUFF BALL STEW 

Peel and trim the fungi. Cut into small cube-shaped pieces, 
cover with white stock, milk or water, and simmer twenty 



MUSHROOMS COOKED UNDER GLASS 321 

mimites: when they have cooked five minutes, stir into them 
(for a pint) two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour 
creamed together. When tender season with salt and pepper, 
add a httle cream or butter and a teaspoonful of fine-chopped 
parsley. Serve with crackers. 

CHAMPIGNONS A LA ALGONQUIN 

Have ready in a baking-pan as many rounds of stale bread 
as mushrooms. Remove the stems from the mushrooms, 
peel the caps, and saut6 them in a little hot butter. Put a 
cap on each round of toast, gill side up. Put an oyster on 
each mushroom and a bit of butter on each oyster and dust 
the whole with salt and pepper. Bake in a hot oven until 
the oysters look plump. Serve with a sauce made of two 
tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour, salt and pepper, 
and half a cup, each, of chicken stock and cream. 

MUSHROOM CROQUETTES (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY* BOSTON) 

Clean and peel half a pound of mushrooms, chop the stems 
and peelings and simmer twenty minutes in milk or white 
stock to cover; strain through a cheesecloth and reserve the 
liquid. Make a sauce of one-fourth a cup of butter, half a 
cup of flour, one cup, each, of the mushroom liquor and cream. 
Season with half a teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth a tesispoon- 
fu] of paprika and a grating of nutmeg. Sautd the caps cut 
small in a little butter until tender; add two hard-boiled eggs, 
rubbed through a sieve, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
the sauce, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Mix thoroughly 
and spread on a dish to cool. Shape into croquettes, egg- and- 
breadcrumb and fry in deep fat. 

MUSHROOMS COOKED UNDER GLASS 

Sant^ one-fourth a pound of peeled mushroom caps (the 
Agaricus campestris is particularly good cooked this way) in 
one or two (as needed) tablespoonfuls of butter: season with 
salt and paprika, add a generous half-cup of thin cream, cover 
and let simmer until reduced a little. Arrange the mush- 
rooms on a round of bread in a mushroom dish, pour the 
liquid over them, cover with a glass bell and bake about 



322 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Send to the table with- 
out removing the glass, which confines the delicate flavor and 
aroma of the mushrooms. The cream may be omitted. 

MUSHROOMS AND CALVES' BRAINS A LA POULETTE 

Saut^ a clove of garlic, cut fine, in two tablespoonfuls of 
butter; add half a pound of mushrooms, peeled and broken 
in pieces, and one-fourth a cup of flour, and sautd until well 
browned. Then add one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of mace 
and paprika, half a teaspoonful of salt and very gradually one 
cup and a half of stock and cook five or six minutes. Then 
add three calves' brains, cooked and cut in cubes, and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. When the mixture is thoroughly 
heated, add the yolks of two eggs, beaten and diluted with a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Serve in patties, Swedish tim- 
bale cases, or in croustades of bread. 

MUSHROOMS AND MACARONI, ITALIAN STYLE 

Put one tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice into the blazer; add a dozen peeled mushrooms, 
broken into pieces, blanch and cook slowly, covered, five 
or six minutes. Then add one cup and one-fourth of milk, 
and, when scalded, stir into it two tablespoonfuls, each, of 
butter and flour, creamed together. Let simmer ten minutes, 
then add one-fourth a pound of macaroni, cooked and blanched 
in the usual manner; heat over hot water and, just before 
serving, add one-fourth a cup of grated cheese. 

30LETI SAUTED WITH BACON (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY) 

Cook thin slices of bacon in the oven, — ^let the bacon stand 
in a double-broiler over a dripping-pan — ^until nicely crisped. 
Peel and slice the mushroom caps, rejecting tough stems and 
long sp)ongy pores; saut^ in bacon fat until tender, season with 
salt and pepper, drain on soft paper, sprinkle with lemon 
juice and serve hot with the bacon. 

COPRINUS COMATUS BAKED WITH OYSTERS 

(ANNIE P. DOUGHTY) 

Dress the prepared, lengthwise halves of fine, large Ooprmus 
cornattis on long, narrow, buttered strips of bread; season with 



J 



RUSSULAE A LA BORDELAISE 323 

salt and pepper, cover closely and bake fifteen minutes. Re- 
move from the oven and on each half mushroom place one 
large oyster, seasoned with salt and paprika, and rolled in 
melted butter and then in cracker dust. Return to the oven 
to plump the oysters. Serve with hot cream or Bechamel 
sauce poured around. 

CLAVARIA BAKED WITH CHEESE (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY) 

Pick over, trim and wash the mushrooms. Parboil in boil- 
ing salted water ten minutes. To two cups of cooked and 
drained Clavaria allow one cup of cream sauce, two table- 
spoonfuls of grated cheese (Swiss, Parmesan or old English) 
and half a cup of buttered crumbs. Butter a gratin dish, 
put in the Clavaria, then the sauce, and lastly the cheese with 
the buttered crumbs. Bake until the crumbs are browned. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS 

Wipe firm ripe tomatoes ; cut a thin slice from the stem end 
and with a teaspoon scoop out the seeds; sprinkle the insides 
with salt, invert, and let stand to drain half an hour. Cook 
together three minutes two tablespoonfuls of butter and two 
teaspoonfuls of minced onion ; add one cup of fresh mushrooms, 
sliced (equal parts of Campestris and pufi balls are good) 
and sauti slowly ten minutes; add one cup of stale bread- 
crumbs from the centre of the loaf, season with salt and pepper, 
stir in one egg, slightly beaten, and fill the tomatoes with the 
mixture. Sprinkle buttered crumbs over the tops. Bake 
in a buttered baking-dish half an hour. Chicken or veal, 
chopped fine, is a good addition to this forcemeat. 

RUSSULAE A LA BORDELAISE 

Sprinkle a buttered gratin dish thickly with buttered 
breadcrumbs. Spread with a deep layer of fresh RussuIcb 
prepared for cooking, sprinkle with a little finely minced 
parsley, and season with salt, pepper and onion juice. Cover 
with buttered crumbs. Repeat the layers until the dish is 
filled. Bake half an hour, covered; ten minutes before serving 
remove the cover to* brown the crumbs on top. Serve very 



324 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

hot. Olive oil may be substituted, for the butter, and a cloi'e 
of garlic, for the onion. 

CEPES A LA DUMAS 

Drain a generous cup of Cepes, that have been soaking in 
water several hours, on a sieve, then wipe dry and cut in 
slices. Saut^ a shallot, a clove of garlic, or a slice or two of 
onion, in a little olive oil or butter ; skim out the onion, which- 
ever variety be used, and saut^ the mushrooms ; add one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and paprika and one cup of 
cream sauce. Sprinkle buttered scallop shells with grated 
breadcrumbs and fill with the mushroom mixture ; cover with 
buttered crumbs and bake until brown. Serve the shells on a 
folded napkin. 

MUSHROOMS WITH MACARONI AND KIDNEYS 

Boil and blanch half a pound of macaroni; return to the 
saucepan and add one-fourth a cup, each, of butter and 
grated cheese (preferably Parmesan). Toss together and 
dispose in a circle in the serving-dish. Prepare a tomato 
sauce with cup of thick (well reduced) tomato pur^e, butter, 
flour, seasonings, a tablespoonful of beef extract, and a few 
drops of kitchen bouquet. Remove the skin of a veal or lamb 
kidney, slice very fine and saut^ in butter; skim frcmi the 
butter and saut6 in that half a dozen mushroom caps, peeled 
and cut in slices; drain these also and add with the kidney to 
the sauce; season as needed with salt and pepper and turn 
into the centre of the ring of macaroni. 

PIMENTOES STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS 

Line buttered dariole moulds with pimentoes. Wipe care- 
fully half a cup of mushrooms; peel the caps, cut in small 
pieces and chop the stems fine; saut6 in one tablespoonful 
of butter together with half a small onion, chopped fine ; then 
add three-fourths a cup of white sauce, half a cup of fine 
breadcrumbs, half a cup of cooked meat, fine chopped, and the 
beaten yolk of one egg; season with a pimento, chopped fine, 
and salt to taste. Fill the lined moulds with the mixtttre. 



PIMENTOES STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS 325 

Bake in a pan of hot water. Serve turned from the moulds 
on rounds of toast. Pimentoes are Spanish peppers, very mild 
and sweet in flavor; they are found in the market, canned. 
There are about a dozen in each can which costs eighteen cents 
at retail. 



CHAPTER X 

Corn Plants Used as Breakfast Food and 

Vegetables 

"Samp is the Indian com, beaten and boiled, and eaten hot or cold 
with milke or butter, which are mercies beyond the native's plaine 
water, and is. a dish exceeding wholesome for English bodies. '* 

— Roger Williams. 

AVERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FARINACEOUS FOOD 



(atwater) 



Water. 

Per 
Cent. 

Barley, granulated . .10.9 

Farina 10.9 

Corn Meal 

granulated . . ..12.5 

Hominy 11.8 

Oat Meal 7.3 

Rice 12.3 

Rye Meal ii-4 

Macaroni 10.3 



Protein 
Per 
Cent. 

7-5 
4.1 



9.2 

16. 1 

8.0 

13.6 

134 



Fat. 

Per 

Cent. 

0.9 
4 

9 
6 

2 

3 
o 

9 



Carbo- 
hydrates 
Per 
Cent. 

79-8 
84.1 



75-4 

790 

67 5 

790 

71-5 
74.1 



Ash. 

Per 

Cent. 

0.9 

•5 

1 .0 

•3 
1.9 

.4 

i-S 

1-3 



FuelVal. 
per lb. 
Calo- 
ries. 

1.660 

1.660 

I - 650 
1.860 
1.630 
1.665 
1.665 



BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Steam-cooked cereals can be eaten without much time being 
given to their preparation and in consequence their consump- 
tion is enormous. Many children are permitted, inoming 
after morning, to make a full breakfast of cereal. While a 
child with strong digestive powers may appear for a time to 
thrive upon such diet, it becomes a fruitful source of dys- 
pepsia. Many a dish of oatmeal, sugared and deluged with 
milk, causes acidity of the stomach or heartburn, which is 
wrongfully ascribed to other causes. The trouble lies not so 
much with the cereals themselves — though some are more 
prone to produce digestive disturbance than others — as it does 

326 



J 



SERVING CEREALS 327 

with the manner of cooking and masticating. Cereals are 
largely composed of starch and tough woody fibre, hence long 
and thorough cooking and thorough mastication are prime 
requisites, to insure the digestive action of the saliva. In cook- 
ing cereals, then, use enough water to swell the grains to their 
full extent, but avoid having the mush too soft, else it is liable to 
he swallowed without mastication. As starch during the process 
of digestion is changed into sugar, sugar as an accompaniment 
to cereals would 13e contraindicated. Indeed, cooked until 
quite stiff, they are most acceptably served with butter or 
cream as a vegetable with meat and in the place of potatoes. 
More time is required for the conversion of the starch in oat- 
meal into sugar than for the starch in barley, and thus barley 
would be considered the cereal for sedentary people. The 
large proportion of fat in oats and corn fit them more par- 
ticularly for midwinter consumption. 

COOKWG CEREALS 

Breakfast cereals may be boiled or dry-steamed, i.e., cooked 
in a double-boiler; the latter method requires longer time in 
cooking, but it is usually preferred, as less attention is de- 
manded. A supply of water needs always be kept in the 
boiler. A general rule for cooking cereals is as follows: add 
a teaspoonful of salt to a quart of water boiling directly over 
the fire; into this stir about a cup of the cereal and, when the 
mixture boils, after all the cereal has been added, set over hot 
water and cook, without stirring, the requisite time. Whole 
grains of oatmeal require in cooking about six hours, hominy 
four hours, samp eight or more, cracked wheat two hours, 
Indian meal three to six hours, and rice about forty minutes. 
In cooking cereals from packages it is safe to double the time 
given in the directions on the packages. 

SERVING CEREALS 

The various cereals have distinctive yet delicate flavors 
oi their own that are usually enjoyed, but occasionally, for the 
sake of variety, fruit flavors may be added. Sweet fruits 
would be indicated. Raisins should be added with the salt 
to the water in which the cereal is to be cooked. After 



328 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

removing the seeds from dates, cut into quarters and stir into 
the cooked cereal ; cover and return to the range long enough 
to heat the fruit thoroughly. Prunes and figs should be 
stewed previously until tender, then served hot or cold with 
the cereal. Bananas may be sliced without cooking, and then 
served with the hot cereal ; but even these will be found to be 
more agreeable, if they be cooked. 

BALTIMORE SAMP WITH CREAM SAUCE 

Baltimore samp is made of white corn. It is very much 
coarser than grits or fine hominy. Cover the samp with boil- 
ing water, let boil five or six minutes, then drain and rinse. 
Cover again with boiling water, and let cook on the back of 
the range all day, adding boiling water as needed, and shaking 
the dish occasionally to prevent scorching. When nearly 
cooked, add a teaspoonful of salt for each quart of samp. 
To serve as a vegetable, reheat a cup of the samp in a cup of 
hot white sauce made of cream or rich milk. Add also a scant 
tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley or two tablespoonfuls 
of grated cheese. 

CORNMBAL RELISH 

Stir one cup of commeal mixed with one cup of milk into 
two cups and a half of boiling water, to which a teaspoonful 
of salt has been added; stir constantly until the mush boils, 
then, occasionally, for half an hour or longer. Add an egg, 
beaten until white and yolk are well mixed, a tablespoonful 
of butter and one-fourth a cup (or more) of grated cheese. 
Pour into a shallow pan to cool. When cold cut into squares 
or rounds the size of a silver dollar." Arrange these in a bak- 
ing-dish that can be sent to the table, in the form of a pyra- 
mid, with spaces between. Sprinkle with bits of butter and 
grated cheese. Set in the oven to reheat the mush and melt 
the cheese. Serve very hot. Paprika, or cayenne, may be 
added. The quantity of liquid needed in making the mush 
will vary. Tlie average is four cups of liquid to one of meal. 
The dry meal may be shaken slowly with one hand and stirred 
with the other into the boiling water. After cooking half an 



OATMEAL WITH STEWED FIGS AND CREAM. 



BAKED APPLE WITH GLUTEN AND CREAM. 



OMELET WITH WHEAT-GERM MEAL 329 

hour directly over the fire, the mush may be cooked over hot 
water an hour or more to advantage. 

GNOCCHI AU GRATIN 

6 ounces (about i 1-2 cups) of White sauce. 

hominy or Indian meal. Grated cheese. 

I cup of milk. 1-2 a cup of cracked crumbs. 

I I- a tablespoonfuls of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Add the salt and butter to the boiling milk and sprinkle in 
the hominy or meal ; stir and cook until the mixture becomes a 
stiff paste. With two teaspoons shape the mixture into 
quenelles, and poach these in gently boiling stock or water. 
Drain and arrange a layer on a buttered gratin dish, mask 
with white sauce and sprinkle with grated cheese; continue 
the layers until the materials are used, then cover with the 
crumbs mixed with the melted butter. Bake in a very hot 
oven about ten minutes. This dish is particularly good, if the 
quenelles be poached in chicken liquor, and the sauce after- 
wards made with that liquor. 

HOMINY BALLS 

Shape a quart of boiled hominy into balls, roll in sifted 
crumbs, then dip in an egg, beaten and diluted with two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, and again in crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain on soft paper. Serve as a vegetable, or with 
maple syrup as a dessert ; or add half a cup or more of grated 
cheese and serve as an entree. 

OMELET WITH WHEAT-GERM MEAL, WHEATLET, 

CREAM OF WHEAT, ETC. 

Into one cup and a fourth of boiling water, to which one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of salt has been added, stir two table- 
spoonfuls of wheat-germ meal. Stir and cook over the fire 
three or four minutes, then cook over hot watfer until ready 
to use. Beat five eggs, until a spoonful of the mixture can be 
lifted ; add a few grains of pepper and salt, and beat the eggs 
into the cooked meal. Turn into a hot frying-pan, buttered, 
and cook as a French omelet. Or, beat the whites and yolks 



330 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

separately ; then beat the yolks into the meal, fold in the whites 
and cook as a puffy omelet. 

POLENTA 

2 cups of boiling water. i teaspoon ful of salt. 

1 cup of yellow corn flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 cups of cold water. 4 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 

Mix the com flour with the cold water and stir into the boil- 
ing water, to which the salt has been added: stir constantly 
until the mixture boils, then, occasionally, for at least half an 
hour. When about half cooked add the butter and cheese. 
Serve hot (with meat) with the sauce given below, or as ** corn- 
meal relish"; or when cold cut in squares, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry in deep fat. 

SAUCE FOR POLENTA, RICE OR MACARONI 

Saut^ half a dozen mushrooms broken in pieces (if dried 
mushrooms be used, let soak some hours in cold water), an 
onion and a clove of garlic, cut fine, in half a cup of butter 
until a golden brown, then add half a cup of water and two 
teaspoonfuls of beef extract (or use strong beef stock instead 
of the water and extract), and let simmer five minutes. 
Strain before serving. 

RICE 

On account of the small percentage of woody fibre, or cel- 
lulose, found in connection with the starch, rice may be 
classed as an easily digested food. There are many varieties 
of rice; some contain little else than starch and water, while 
others contain in addition a small percentage of gluten. The 
statement is often made that some Eastern people live almost 
exclusively on rice, but facts do not verify these. statements. 
The Chinese and Japanese simply use rice as we use bread 
and potatoes. Combined with eggs, cheese, milk or meat 
juices rice may be made a representative food, but rice alone 
will not sustain life continuously. 



I 

J 



PLAIN BOILED RICE 331 



COOKING RICE 



There are several ways of cooking rice, each of which has 
points of merit, at least, for those who advocate the method. 
As a rule rice-growing people prefer the rice grains less tender 
than do those of Northern climes, just as the Italians prefer 
macaroni in a state which by many would be called an under- 
done condition. But soft or not, all wish rice dry. The 
quantity of liquid that the grain will absorb depends upon 
the variety of the rice, the season in which it was grown, the 
time it has been kept, and the liquid used. These things 
affect, also, the time of cooking. Rice will absorb in cooking 
from two and a half to four times its bulk of liquid. When 
three cups of water, would suffice, three and a half or four 
cups of milk or tomato pur^e are required. 

Rice needs be thoroughly cleansed before cooking. It 
may be washed in several waters, being rubbed, meanwhile, 
between the hands, but the most satisfactory way is to blanch 
rice. Put the rice over a hot fire in a large saucepan of cold 
water and stir, occasionally, while it is heating; let boil five 
minutes, then drain on a sieve and pass cold water from the 
faucet through it. The rice is now beautifully white and 
clean and the grains do not adhere to each other. To cook, 
return to the fire, covered with the hot liquid, whatever this 
be, in which it is to be cooked, let cook rapidly until nearly 
all the liquid is absorbed, then finish cooking over hot water. 
If the liquid be milk, cook from the first, after blanching, in 
the double-boiler. 

BOILED RICE (JAPANESE COOK) 

Wash the rice thoroughly; cook, in four times as much 
water, directly over the fire. Use a tightly covered saucepan, 
that the moisture or steam may be absorbed by the rice. 
Have the fire less brisk at the last of the cooking than at 
first. 

PLAIN BOILED RICE 

Cover the blanched rice with a relatively large quantity 
of salted boiling water and let cook rapidly in an uncovered 



332 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

saucepan until the grains are tender; drain off the water, 
cover the saucepan with a cloth and let stand on the back of 
the range to dry. Serve in a hot dish. 

RISOTTO 

z cup of rice. i 1-2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 

a tablespoonfuls of butter. Paprika. 

1-2 an onion. 2 to 3 cups of stock or water. 

I cup of tomato pulp. i-a a cup of grated cheese. 

Put the rice over the fire with plenty of cold water, and let 
boil five minutes, then drain and rinse. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, add the onion and rice, let cook until the butter 
is absorbed, then add the tomato pulp, salt, paprika, and the 
liquid; let cook until the rice is tender and the liquid absorbed, 
then stir in the cheese carefully. Take out the onion. Use 
a fork and stir or lift the rice carefully, to avoid breaking the 
grains. Serve very hot. 

SAVORY RICE 

Set a cup of rice over the fire in three pints of cold water, 
let come quickly to the boiling point, and boil five minutes, 
then drain through a colander, rinsing with cold water. Re- 
turn to the fire with a quart of boiling water, one teaspoonful 
of salt, and the juice of half a lemon, shake the pan, occa- 
sionally, lest the rice bum, and add a little more water if neces- 
sary, or set on an asbestos mat, or into a pan of water. When 
tender stir in very carefully, one fourth a cup of butter creamed 
with a tablespoonful of curry-powder. Serve with meat, 
particularly chicken or veal. 

TURKISH PILAP 

Set one cup and a half of stock, with one cup of stewed and 
strained tomato, over the fire. When boiling add one cup 
of well-washed or blanched rice and half a teaspoonful of salt; 
stir lightly with a fork, occasionally, until the liquor is ab- 
sorbed. Then add half a cup of butter and cook over hot 
water until tender; remove, cover and stir with a fork before 
serving. 



PLAIN RiCJE CROQUETTES 333 



RICE WITH BACON 

Parboil three-fourths a cup of rice in boihng water five 
minutes and drain on a sieve. Pour boilin,;:? water over one- 
fourth a pound of bacon, then drain, cut inLo inch pieces and 
saute to a Hght yellow color. Add the rice, three cups of 
stock or water, and a dash of pepper; let simmer until tender, 
then add a cup of well-reduced tomato pur^e (tomatoes passed 
through a sieve and simmered until thick), mix thoroughly, 
turn in a mound on a dish, and arrange curls of fried bacon 
on the sides of the mound. 

SAVORY RICE CROQUETTES 

1-2 a cup of rice. A piece of red pepper. 

1 cup of stock. I egg. 

2 cups of tomatoes. 1-2 a cup of grated cheese. 
A slice of onion. i tablespoonful of butter. 

A sprig of parsley. i -4 a teaspoonf ul of paprika. 

2 cloves. 1-4 a teaspoonf ul of salt. 

Cover the rice with cold water and bring quickly to the 
boiling point; let boil five minutes, then drain, rinse in cold 
water and drain again. Cook the tomatoes with the onion, 
parsley, cloves, and red pepper fifteen minutes and pass 
through a sieve; add to the rice with the stock, paprika and 
salt and cook over hot water, until the rice is tender and the 
liquid absorbed, then add the cheese, butter, and beaten egg. 
Spread on a dish to cool (do not let it become too cold), then 
shape and finish as any croquettes. 

PLAIN RICE CROQUETTES 

1-2 a Clip of rice. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of boiling water, t* •-*.', Yolks of 2 eggs or i whole egg. 

I cup of hot milk. "^ 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, a : / 

Blanch the rice as above, cook in a double boiler with the 
water, milk, and salt, until the rice is tender and the liquid is 
absorbed; stir in the beaten eggs and the butter; let cool and 
finish as usual. 



334 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



RICE, MILANAISE FASHION 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a stewpan, and when 
hot cook in it, without browning, a slice of onion, chopped; 
then add half a cup of rice, thoroughly washed, and about a 
quart of stock (white) or hot water. Cook until the rice is 
tender and the liquid is absorbed; then add two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cheese and salt, if needed. Stir gently with a 
fork, turn into a serving-dish, and sprinkle the top with a 
little more of the grated cheese. Serve as a vegetable, or 
as a luncheon dish, either with or without a brown sauce. 

RICE, WITH PARSLEY OR CHIVES 

Cook half a cup of blanched rice in boiling salted water 
until tender (an aluminoid dish will be found useful for this 
purpose) ; add two tablespoonfuls of butter and one teaspoon- 
ful of fine-chopped parsley or chives; mix gently so as to 
avoid breaking the grains. Serve as a vegetable. 

RICE, CREOLE STYLE 

Chop fine a white onion and two green peppers, saut^ with 
half a cup of raw ham, shredded rather fine, in one-fourth a 
cup of butter; cook about ten minutes, then add a cup of 
blanched rice and three cups of beef broth, simmer twenty 
minutes, then add four tomatoes, peeled and cut in slices, and 
one teaspoonful of salt. Cover and finish cooking in the 
oven or in a double-boiler. 

HOT RICE PREPARATION TO SERVE WITH COMPOTES 

OF FRUIT 

Blanch one cup of rice ; add salt and one quart of milk or 
hot water and cook until the liquid is absorbed and the rice 
is tender, adding more liquid if needed. Add one-fourth a 
cup of butter, one-fourth a cup of sugar, and, if desired, the 
grated rind and juice of half a lemon or one teaspoonftd of 
vanilla extract.; mix thoroughly without breaking the kernels 
of rice. Butter a round basin or a border mould and press 
the rice into this. Set into the oven for ten minutes, then 
turn on to a serving-dish. 



J 



MACARONI MILANESI 335 

RICE FOR SWEET CROQUETTES 

Cook a cup of rice blanched and salted in three cups of 
milk until tender and dry; add three egg yolks, one-fourth 
a cup, each, of butter, sugar, whipped cream, and candied 
orange peel shredded fine. When cool form into peach shapes, 
egg-and-breadcrumb, and fry in deep fat. Insert angelica 
for stalks. Serve with cold fruit syrup or with fresh fruit 
dressed with sugar. 

MACARONI 

The Italians are most skilful in preparing appetizing and 
economical dishes. The nutritive food stuff which often 
forms the foundation of these is macaroni, made from a wheat 
flour rich in gluten. At the Italian stores in large ' cities 
many quaint styles of macaroni may be found. Some are 
saffron tinted; some for soups are shaped like the letters of 
the alphabet, others are in threads, and still others are in 
plain bands or ribbons and bands with a fluted edge. All 
the different varieties are cooked alike, except that some 
require longer cooking than others. In Italy the common 
name for all varieties is "pasta," macaroni being the name 
for the common stick pasta with a hole through it. Spaghetti 
is usually cooked unbroken, the ends of the long slender 
sticks of paste are put into boiling water, and then as the 
heat and moisture soften the sticks they are coiled in the sauce- 
pan. When tender and blanched the cooking and dressing 
is the same as for macaroni. Macaroni proper is broken into 
short pieces of uniform length and cooked in rapidly boiling 
salted water until tender, then drained and rinsed in cold 
water. Thus treated the pieces do not adhere, one to another, 
nor is the dish at all mushy. 

MACARONI MILANESI 

Put one-fourth a cup of butter, or drippings, into the frying- 
pan and when melted saut^ in it an onion, sliced thin, a stalk 
of celery, cut into cubes, and a sprig of parsley ; stir, to keep 
from burning, and when of a golden brown add a can of 
tomato, season with salt and pepper and let simmer about 



336 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

half an hour, or until the watery juice is evaporated. Mean- 
while cook half a package of macaroni in boiling salted water; 
let boil about twenty minutes or until tender but in perfect 
shape, drain and rinse in cold water, then set in a hot place. 
Press the tomato sauce through a sieve fine enough to keep 
back the seeds, but coarse enough to let the pulp pass through 
(it should be of the consistency of thick cream). Dust a hot 
platter with Parmesan cheese, cover with macaroni, pour 
over sauce, add grated cheese, then more macaroni sauce 
and cheese until all is used. Then with a spoon and fork 
gently turn the macaroni over and over until it is thoroughly 
mixed with the sauce ; add a generous sprinkling of cheese to 
the top and serve. Mix quickly that the macaroni may be 
served hot. 

MACARONI A LA ITALIENNE 

1-4 a pound of macaroni. 1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-2 a cup of brown stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i - 2 a cup of tomato pulp, 

I - 5 a teaspoonful of sal t . well reduced. 

1-4 to 1-2 a cup of grated cheese. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, stock, and 
tomato pulp. The tomato pulp should be quite thick from 
long cooking. Add the macaroni, cooked until tender, in boil- 
ing salted water, rinsed and drained. Reheat in double 
boiler, adding the cheese meanwhile. Serve when the cheese 
is melted and the whole is very hot. 

MOULDED MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Cook three-fourths a cup of macaroni, broken in small 
pieces, in rapidly boiling salted water half an hour. Drain, 
then add a cup of milk, and cook until the milk is absorbed; 
then stir into one cup of white sauce (use three tablespoonfuls 
of flour in making the sauce), add two tablespoonfuls or more 
of grated cheese, and, when cooled a little, two eggs beaten 
light. Turn into a buttered border mould, sprinkled with 
breadcrumbs, and poach, standing in a pan of hot water, 
about twenty-five minutes. Turn from the mould, and fill 
the centre with tomatoes stewed with mushrooms. 



MACARONI AND CHEESE 337 



TOMATOES WITH MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Cook half a pound of macaroni in rapidly boiling salted water 
until tender. Scald one pint of cream over hot water, add half 
a pound of cheese, cut in thin shavings, and stir until the cheese 
is melted; add a dash of salt and paprika, flave ready, 
in a serving-dish, five or six baked tomatoes (skin and core 
removed before baking); dispose the macaroni in a wreath 
around the tomatoes, pour the cheese mixture over the whole, 
and serve very hot. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN 

Mix three-fourths a cup of macaroni, that has been cooked 
as usual, with a cup of cream or tomato sauce ; add from one- 
fourth to half a cup of grated cheese, turn into an au gratin 
dish, cover with buttered cracker-crumbs and set into a hot 
oven to brown the crumbs. 

BAKED MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Put cooked macaroni and grated cheese into an au gratin 
dish in alternate layers, cover with milk and let cook until 
the cheese is melted and the milk is partly absorbed. One or 
two beaten eggs may be added with the milk and the whole 
baked slowly until the egg is set. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE, GARNISH OF WELSH RABBIT 

garnish: 
I- 2 a pound of macaroni. 1-4 a pound of cheese. 

1-4 a pound of cheese. 1-4 a cup of cream. 

1-4 a pound of butter. The yolk of i egg. 

Salt and paprika. Salt and paprika. 

Cook the macaroni as usual, grate the cheese and melt the 
butter. Put the macaroni, cheese and butter in layers in a 
baking-dish that will stand the heat of the oven; sprinkle 
each layer with salt and pepper, and set the dish into the 
oven. Melt the second quarter pound of cheese, add the salt 
and pepper, and, very gradually, the yolk of the egg, beaten 



338 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and diluted with the cream; stir constantly while the cheese 
is melting and until the mixture is smooth. Spread upon 
diamond-shaped pieces of bread toasted upon one side, placing 
the rabbit upon the untoasted side. Dispose these on the 
top of the macaroni and serve at once. 



J 



CHAPTER XI 

Chafingr Dish Cookery and Service 

" Let him then be boiled gently over a chafing dish with wood coles. " 

— IzAAK Walton. 

"The meats were kept warm by chafing dishes. " 

— Prescott, " Conquest of Mexico." 

The origin of the chafing-dish dates back to the period of 
unwritten history. Its use was common at least two thousand 
years ago. Like the brazier, chafing-dishes were once made 
of bronze and rested on the floor. As occasion demanded 
they were carried from room to room by means of handles on 
the sides. The authepsa of the Greeks and Romans — a 
saucepan of Corinthian brass — was also a species of chafing- 
dish, having several features of the modem chafing-dish. All 
of these appliances were a combination of sauce-pan and heat 
generator, though the authepsa was probably used simply 
to heat water or to keep it hot. Formerly the heat was sup- 
plied by live wood coals or the flame of burning oil. The 
ancient dishes were intended for gentle cooking or simmering, 
and for keeping hot food that had been cooked by other means. 
This is the rightful province of the modem chafing-dish 
and all other cooking, save that of a gentle simmering, should 
be left for some more appropriate utensil. 

This degree of heat, that of simmering, is well adapted to 
the cooking of eggs, oysters, and cheese, and the reheating of 
cooked materials in a sauce, the sauce having been first made 
in the blazer of the chafing-dish. 

The blazer, a hot-water pan and a lamp are the indispens- 
able parts of the chafing-dish — the hot- water pan is some, 
times though erroneously, omitted. A tray upon which the 
dish may rest, while the lamp is lighted, insures the tablecloth 
against fire from below. Light wooden spoons, shaped from 

339 



340 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

French apple-tree, or olive wood, and highly polished, are light 
and noiseless, and thus suitable for dining-room cookery. 
The bowls of such spoons being very small, silver forks and 
spoons, designed especially for serving, are called into re- 
quisition, when the cooking has been completed. 

Often young people, whose experience in cooking is limited, 
inquire, How are v/e to know when to use the hot- water pan? 
To the amateur cook, who is desirous of making a success of 
chafing-dish cookery, we would suggest the perusal of Chap- 
ter II. They will then readily understand that if roux is to 
be made for the thickening of a sauce, the blazer should be set 
directly over the flame, in order to secure the strong heat 
necessary to cook starch. Also that, if eggs are to be added 
to a mixture, or if milk is to be heated or cheese melted, the 
hot-water pan should be in place, to temper the heat ever 
inimical to the digestibility of nitrogeneous substances. 

FUEL 

When alcohol is to be used in the lamp of the chafing-dish 
the best is none too good and, in the end, is the cheapest. 

With the ordinary chafing-dish lamp, in which the alcohol 
is burned in a cup filled with asbestos stone, covered with a 
wire netting, the alcohol is turned into the lamp through a 
central opening. As soon as the lamp is filled, the cap cover- 
ing this opening should be fitted in place and kept in place 
until the alcohol is consumed, otherwise it is impossible to 
control the flame. The filler is a desirable utensil, when the 
alcohol needs be renewed. The lamp usually holds about 
one-fourth a cup ; this, if of good quality, will bum about half 
an hour. A similar fuel in solid form is now prepared for this 
use. Any make of chafing-dish may be heated with gas or 
electricity, if it be connected with the supply. A gas burner 
or an electric stove may be fitted inside the frame of the chafing 
dish, then with rubber tubing for gas, or flexible cord for 
electricity, the frame may be connected with the supply that 
is used for lighting the room. At stores, where gas appliances 
are on sale, may be found portable frames fitted with gas 
burners and with rubber tubing attached, upon which the 
hot- water pan or blazer is set for cooking. 



REGARDJNG "RABBITS" 3;i 

Unless gas or electricity be the fuel, chafing-dish cookery 
consumes much time and is not adapted to general use; but 
the sick room, the Sunday night tea, and the means for diver- 
sion on a stormy day, to say nothing of the little "snack" 
after "the play" will afford abundant opportunities in which 
to test the virtues of many a dish that, eaten at its best, 
should be served the instant it is perfectly cooked. 

As the chafing-dish stands very high above the ordinary 

dining-room table, the first requisite to ease in cooking is a 

chair with a rather high seat. Also a hassock beneath the 

table for the feet is convenient for her who keeps watch over 

the contents of the blazer. As this meal is often prepared 

and served without the assistance of a inaid, everything should 

be in readiness befor hand ; and, when space allows, the greater 

part of the food for the meal may be in place while the cooking 

is going on. A tray holding the cups, spoons, etc., needed 

in cooking is a convenience on the dining table, but when this 

necessitates a crowded table, a small table at the left of the 

" cook " may be drawn upon for this purpose. If this be upon 

castors, it may be wheeled aside after the hot course from 

the chafing-dish has been disposed of, and thus is made a 

comparatively easy solution of the problem of soiled dishes on 

the table. Hors d'ceuvres, substantial or otherwise, according 

to the occasion, form a fitting first course of the chafing-dish 

meal and take up the time while the cooking is going on. 

REGARDING ** RABBITS" 

Any of the various forms of rabbit or rarebit, the bright 
and particular gem of the cook's repertoire for the chafing- 
dish, may be made successfully, coming out smooth and 
delectable, provided only they be stirred constantly and cooked 
without boiling. 

An expert does not require the hot- water pan, until the cook- 
ing is completed and serving is in order; because she lifts the 
blazer from the flame oft and again whenever her practised 
eye discerns that boiling is imminent at any point. The 
amateur needs to use the hot- water pan from start to finish. 
Every one who essays a rabbit knows that stirring, indefatig- 



342 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

able and untiring, is also a sine qua non of the perfect dish. 
American factory cheese gives the foxindation for these tid- 
bits, the softer it is, the more readily will it melt upon the 
application of heat, a condition devoutly looked forward to by 
the novice. Any of the fancy brands of potted cheese may 
be added in small quantities for a change of flavor. The mild 
paprika is the favorite pepper, and soda is added to replace 
the salts lost in the whey during the cheese-making process. 
Recipes for "rabbits" are given under the chapter on Cheese. 
For a variation, try spreading the toast with anchovy paste, 
or add to the rabbit just before serving a few anchovy fillets, 
picked into small pieces. 

OYSTERS 

In purchasing oysters for chafing-dish, as for all cookery, 
if possible, see them taken from the shells. Oysters, in bulk, 
are usually treated with "preservatives " ; and those who have 
looked into the subject even casually, know that we are being 
"preserved to death" by eating veritably embalmed and pre- 
served food products. For all sorts of stews, creamed and 
curried dishes, let the oysters, freed from shell and w^ashed, 
stand in a pitcher from which they may be readily turned into 
the blazer. 

OYSTERS WITH CREAM 

1 1-4 cups of cream. The yolks of two eggs. 

2 dozen oysters (well drained) . Salt and pepper. 

Scald a cup of cream in the blazer over hot water, and add 
the oysters, washed and freed from bits of shell; when the 
jysters begin to look plump and the edges frill, add the yolks, 
beaten and diluted with one-fourth a cup of cream, with about 
half a teaspoon ful of salt and a dash of pepper. Serve on 
buttered toast. 

OYSTER STEW 

1 1-2 cups of rich milk. 2 tablespoon fuls of butter. 

2 dozen oysters. Salt and pepper. 

1-4 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

Scald the milk»over hot water and add the oysters. When 
chey look plump, add the crumbs, butter, and seasonings. 
Serve with crackers. 



MACARONI AND CHEF.SE. GARNISH OF WELSH RABBIT, 




KOHK AND SPOON FOB tHAFINO-DlSil SICRVTCE. 



SHAD ROE CREAMED AND CURRIED 343 

OYSTER STEW, NO. 2 

Make a sauce in the blazer of two tablespoonfuls, each, of 
butter and flour and a cup of rich milk ; if the flavor be wished, 
saut^ a slice of onion in the butter without letting either the 
butter or onion take color; add the oyster liquor, previously 
strained, and when again hot add the oysters. Season and 
serve as soon as the oysters look plump. 

CREAMED DISHES 

Eggs, oysters, lobsters, crabs, shrimps, fish, chicken or 
Iamb, tongue, etc., peas, asparagus* tips, etc., are the ingred- 
ients usually selected for these dishes. Make a white sauce, 
using stock, milk or cream, or a part of each as the liquid; 
season with a few drops of onion juice, chopped parsley, 
celery-salt, paprika or curry-powder, and add the cooked 
article; oysters need be parboiled and drained before being 
added to the sauce or the large quantity of liquid in them 
will change the dish to a stew. Fish is improved for a creamed 
dish by standing in a marinade (lemon and onion juice, 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper) some hours before reheating 
in the chafing-dish. 

SHAD ROE CREAMED AND CURRIED 

Cook the roe in salted, acidulated water; let the water 
simmer very gently, to avoid breaking the outside skin of the 
roe. Cut the roe in scallops or cubes, marinate with lemon 
and onion juice, salt and pepper, cover and let stand some 
hours. When ready to serve prepare a white sauce in the 
blazer, add the roe and let stand over hot water to reheat. 
Sweetbread and calf's brains are particularly good prepared 
in the same way. A tablespoonful of curry-powder added 
with the flour gives a change from the usual white sauce. 

HALIBUT AND LOBSTER A LA HOLLANDAISE 

I pound of raw halibut. 3-4 a cup of butter. 

I two-pound lobster. The yolks of four eggs. 

Salt and paprika. i cup of hot water. 

The juice of half a lemon. 



344 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cut the fish in inch cubes and cook until tender in salted 
acidulated water, or stock made from the trimmings of the 
fish and the body bones of the lobster with a few bits of vege- 
table; drain the fish and when cold add to it the flesh of tlic 
lobster, cut into cubes, a dash of salt and paprika, and the juice 
of half a lemon; set aside until ready to use. Put into the 
blazer, over hot water, the butter, beaten to a cream, and beat 
into this, one at a time, the yolks of four eggs, then gradually 
one cup of hot water; when all the water has been added and 
the sauce is smooth and thick, stir in the fish and lobster 
with the lemon juice. Serve as soon as the mixture is hot. 

LOBSTER, CREOLE STYLE 

I sweet green pepper, seeded. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I tomato, peeked and seeded. i 1-2 cups of chicken broth. 

I slice of onion or 3 two-pound lobsters. 
I tablespoonful of onion juice. 

Chop fine the pepper, tomato and onion and cook in the 
butter until softened; add the broth, let simmer f\ve minutes, 
then add the lobster meat, cut in small pieces, and salt if 
needed. Serve very hot. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH ANCHOVIES OR SARDINES 

Drain the anchovies or sardines, to free them from the oil of 
the can, then remove skin or scales and bones and pick the 
fillets into small pieces. If salted anchovies be used, soak in 
milk or water six or more hours. Beat five eggs slightly; 
add salt and pepper, as desired, and five tablespoonfuls of 
water, milk or cream. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the blazer directly over the flame and put in the pieces of 
fish, (there should be half a cup more or less as taste ap- 
proves), shake the blazer a moment, then turn in the egg 
mixture and cook as scrambled eggs. 

EGGS SCRAMBLED WITH CHEESE 

Beat five eggs until a full spoonful of egg can be taken up ; 
add a few grains, each, of salt and pepper, five tablespoon- 
fuls, each, of cream or water, and grated cheese, turn into a 



CRABS A LA CREOLE 345 

hot blazer, oiled with butter, and cook and stir until the mix- 
ture is lightly set, then serve at once. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATOES AND GREEN PEPPER 

Remove the seeds and veins from a green pepper and cut 
it in shreds. Scald five tomatoes, remove the skins, and cut 
in quarters ; cook the pepper and tomatoes in two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter until the liquid is reduced, then season with 
salt and keep hot. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
second blazer, pour in six eggs, beaten without separating, 
until a full spoonful can be taken up, and season with salt. 
Stir and cook until the egg& become thick and creamy ; add, 
meanwhile, two tablespoonfuls of butter in pieces. Serve the 
two dishes together. 

SWEETBREADS A LA NEWBURG 

Heat one cup of cream in the blazer over hot water. Add 
one cup and a half of sweetbreads, parboiled, cooled, and cut 
in cubes. Beat the yolks of three eggs, add a scant half- tea- 
spoonful of salt and a few grains of cayenne, dilute with three- 
fourths a cup of sherry wine, and stir into the cream. Stir 
until thickened slightly, then serve at once. Half a cup of 
cooked mushrooms is an improvement to the dish. Calves' 
brains may be substituted for a part or all of the sweetbread. 
Oysters, fish, chicken, etc., may be prepared in the same man- 
ner. 

CRABS A LA CREOLE 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of white stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sweet i cup of crab meat or 

Spanish pepper, chopped. 4 soft shell crabs, cut in halves. 

2 tablespoonfuls of onion, chopped. 1-2 a cup of sliced mushrooms. 
1 cup of tomato pur6e. Salt as needed. 

Melt the butter; cook in it the pepper, onion, and mushrooms 
five minutes, then add the stock and tomato pur^e; let boil, 
then add the crab meat, cover and let simmer over hot water 
ten minutes I 



346 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CREAMED CHICKEN, POTATOES AND PEPPERS 

Saut^ half a green pepper, chopped fine, in three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter five or six minutes. Add three tablespoonfuls 
of flour and half a teaspoonful of salt. When frothy, add 
gradually a cup of chicken stock and half a cup of cream, 
stir until smooth and at the boiling point, then set over hot 
water and heat in the sauce one cup of chicken, cut in cubes, 
and half a cup of cold cooked potatoes, also cut in cubes. 
Turnip, carrot, peas, or asparagus-tips may be substituted 
for the potato. 

CURRY OF MACARONI 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter; cook in it two slices of 
onion until the onion becomes of a pale straw color, then add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of curry-powder, 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. When 
blended with the butter, add gradually one cup of milk, and 
stir until smooth and boiling. Then strain over one cup of 
macaroni, cooked until tender in boiling salted water, and then 
drained and rinsed in cold water. Reheat and serve. Two 
tablespoonfuls of tomato pulp may be added, if desired. 

ASPARAGUS A LA INDIENNE 

Make a curry sauce as above, and beat into it a cup of cooked 
asparagus-tips (fresh cooked or canned). Serve with sippets 
of toast, or with finger-length bits of bread, sauted in the 
blazer. 

HOT HAM SANDWICHES 

Spread slices of bread, cut for sandwiches, with chopped 
ham, seasoned with a little mustard and press the slices 
together in pairs. Beat an egg, add half a cup of rich milk 
and soak the sandwiches in the mixture a few moments. Heat 
a tablespoonful or more of butter in the blazer and in it brown 
the sandwiches, first on one side and then on the other. Drain 
on soft paper and serve at once. 



CURRY OF DUCK 347 

MUTTON RECHAUFFE 

To a pint of thin slices of cold mutton, neatly trimmed, 
add the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of onion juice, 
a tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley, half a cup of cold 
stock (that in which the mutton was cooked will do), and a 
teaspoonful of Worcester sauce; let the meat stand two or 
three hours. Make in the blazer a cup and a half of rather 
thick sauce; add the meat and such liquid as has not been 
absorbed, salt and pepper, and a teaspoonful of capers or fine- 
chopped cucumber pickles. Let stand over hot water until 
very hot. Serve on toast, or with mashed potato cakes, 
sauted in a second blazer. 

SALMI OF DUCK WITH GREEN PEAS 

Saut^ three or four slices of bacon, cut in small squares, 
with a tablespoonful of fine-chopped young onions; when 
delicately colored, add one-fourth a cup of nut-brown flour, 
then, gradually, one cup and a half of stock, made from the 
trimmings of the duck, and a sprig or two of mint ; let simmer 
five or six minutes, then add a cup of meat, cut from cold roast 
ducks, and a cup of cooked green peas. Let heat over hot 
water, season with salt and pepper, remove the mint and serve. 

CURRY OF DUCK 

Saut^ two or three thick slices of onion in one-fourth a cup 
of butter ; add one-fourth a cup of flour, and one tablespoonful 
of curry-powder; when well blended add, gradually, two cups 
of stock made from the trimmings of the duck with a little 
beef or fowl, salt and pepper, half an apple, grated, and the 
juice of an orange; let simmer five minutes, then remove the 
onion and add two cups of tender duck meat, cut in thin 
slices ; let stand over hot water until thoroughly heated. This 
dish, as all curries, is at its best when reheated. Prepare as 
above, and if the duck is not tender, let the slices simmer 
in the sauce until they are tender, then set aside until time of 
serving and reheat over hot water. 



348 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



ORANGE OMELET (PAULINE DOUGHTY) 

5 eggs. 5 tablespoonfuls of powdered sufjar 

5 tablespoonfuls of orange juice, A few grains of salt. 
The grated rind of one orange. Sliced oranges. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until lemon colored and thick; add 
the orange rind and juice and the sugar; fold in the whites, 
beaten very light, with the salt. Oil the chafing-dish with one 
tablespoonful of butter, turn in the mixture, and cook over 
hot water fifteen or twenty minutes. Brown slightly by hold- 
ing the blazer directly over the flame. Extinguish the lamp 
and serve, without folding, from the blazer with a dressing 
of sliced oranges and powdered sugar. 

DEVILLED CHESTNUTS 

Roast the chestnuts, after removing a small piece of shell, 
until tender; remove the shells and inner skin. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter into the blazer and when hot saut^ in this 
a cup of the roasted chestnuts ; sprinkle with salt and paprika. 
Serve with the cheese and salad course, or with a rabbit. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 

2 ounces of unsweetened chocolate, i-i a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 

1-2 a cup of granulated sugar. tract. 

4 tablespoonfuls of hot water. 2 eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 1-4 a cup of milk. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, then add the sugar and 
hot water and cook directly over the flames until smooth and 
glossy. Beat the yolk of the eggs, dilute with a tablespoonful 
of the cream, add the rest of the cream and the milk to the 
chocolate mixture and stir until it boils. Set the blazer into 
the hot- water pan, add the yolks and, when blended with the 
hot mixture and thickened slightly, fold in the stiff-beaten 
whites of the eggs and cook over the hot water ten minutes or 
until the whites of the eggs are set and the mixture is spongy. 
Serve with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 
vanilla before whipping. 



GRAPE JUICE SPONGE 349 

GRAPE-JUICE SPONGE 

Scald one pint of grape juice in the blazer, stir in one-fourth 
a cup of any quick-cooking tapioca, mixed with half a cup of 
sugar, then set the blazer over hot water and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until the tapioca is transparent; then add the 
juice of half a lemon and a few grains of salt and fold in the 
stiff-beaten whites of two eggs. Serve with cream and sugar. 



CHAPTER XII 

Salads, Sandwiches and Hors d'CEuvres 

SALADS AND SALAD MAKING 

"An olive, capers, or some better salad. " — Ben Jonson. 

"Our Gamck's a salad, for in him we see 

Oil, vinegar, sugar and saltness agree !" — Goldsmith. 

Certain uncooked plants, fruits, and nuts, also cooked 
vegetables and meats, seasoned with condiments and dressed 
with oil, cream or butter slightly acidulated, constitute what 
is known as salads. 

Long ago in the time of Virgil many ingredients were brayed 
together in a mortar to produce some delectable dish, but 
without doubt even then as now the simpler the salad the 
better it was. "Striving to better, oft we mar what's well." 

The list of plants eaten uncooked as salads by people in 
general is small, and it has scarcely been added to since the 
days of antiquity. Lettuce, known since the earliest times, and 
cultivated in England for more than two hundred years, has 
always been the favorite salad plant, though radishes were once 
served on plates of gold, — emperors vying with one another 
to secure the greatest degree of transparency in the vegetable. 
Black radishes, cultivated in the times of the Romans, are no 
longer in great demand. The varieties of lettuce are numer- 
ous, but all belong to two principal groups : the cabbage let- 
tuce, named from similarity in growth to the vegetable whose 
name it bears, and the cos lettuce, the long firm leaves of 
which form a long erect head. Romaine belongs to this class. 
Celery, cucumbers and cabbage divide the honor of a second 
position, then follow watercress, endive, escarole, pepper- 
grass, dandelion, purslane, and sorrel. Hot-hotise cucumbers 

3SO 



i 



CLEANSING SALAD PLANTS 351 

and lettuce are now largely grown by the aid of electric lights. 
Dandelion, cultivated in rich soil, is broad leaved (compara- 
tively), tender and easily made crisp. It is usually blanched 
for use in salads. When the leaves first appear the, plant is 
covered with a saucer or flower-pot, then, when the leaves are 
of sufficient size, they are beautifully white. When cleaned, 
crisped, dried, and dressed with French dressing the dandelion 
makes a most healthful salad. Purslane and sorrel are used 
in combination with other plants and obviate the use of acid 
in the dressing. There are but few cooked vegetables, if 
there be any, that cannot, either in combination or singly, be 
served as salads, of all it may be said, as Gerarde said of 
asparagus, "The first sprouts and tender shoots be oftentimes 
sodden in flesh broth and eaten boiled in faire water, and 
seasoned with oil, vinegar, and pepper, they are served up as 
a salad. " 

Olive oil, the dressing par excellence of a salad, is a form of 
fat that, eaten in moderation, agrees with almost every one ; 
its use gives "strength and suppleness." It lubricates the 
alimentary tract and acts as a germicide. Its use is strongly 
advocated in health as well as in all wasting diseases. The first 
requisite in salad plants is crisp tenderness. Tenderness is 
secured by quick growth in rich soil with plenty of moisture 
and suitable light: we say suitable, as many are made tender 
as well as white by blanching or growing away from the light. 
Crispness is usually secured by proper care in the kitchen. 
After thorough cleaning, let stand about half an hour in very 
cold water, to which a little lemon juice or vinegar has been 
added. Gather green vegetables from the garden in the early 
morning or after sunset, keep in a cool place, closely wrapped 
in paper or in a closed vessel (a tin pail is a convenient utensil), 
to exclude the air. To avoid a rusty appearance — especially 
is this the case with celery — postpone the use of water until a 
short time before serving. 

CLEANSING SALAD PLANTS 

Too much care cannot be exercised in cleansing salad plants. 
First of all, cut off the earthy root, remove coarse or discolored 



L 



352 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

leaves, and wash thoroughly; each leaf of lettuce needs careful 
attention, lest the tiny insects of the same color as the lettuce 
itself, which so often infest the plant, be retained; watercress 
needs careful attention for the same reason. Crisp as above, 
then drain and swing lightly in wire basket (salad plant 
drainer) or in a coarse net or piece of cheesecloth. Wif)e each 
leaf of lettuce without bruising it; dry shredded cabbage, 
sliced cucumbers, radishes, celery, etc., between folds of soft 
cheesecloth ; then let stand exposed to the air a few moments. 
This careful drying is necessary, as oil and water do not com- 
mingle and a salad is perfectly dressed only when each indi- 
vidual leaf or bit of vegetable is lightly coated with oil or 
appropriate dressing. 

PRRPARATION OF SALAD MATERIALS 

Formerly it was considered a culinary sin to cut lettuce 
with a knife: the proper thing was to shred the leaves with the 
fingers. Steel knives gave an unpleasant taste to the dressed 
salad, but by use of a silver or silver-plated knife the trouble 
is obviated. Before dressing, if quickly done, lettuce may be 
cut with any kind of a clean, well-polished knife. The varie- 
ties of cos lettuce may be more artistically arranged, especially 
in compound salads, if the leaves be cut in ribbons of uniform 
width. Lay the leaves one above another in a pile, then cut 
through all at once. It certainly would be a sin against 
beauty, to cut the delicate heart leaves of cabbage lettuce. 

A thick paring should be cut from cucumbers. Radishes 
make an effective looking salad when sliced without remo\'ing 
the pink skin ; both should be sliced or cut in imiform pieces. 
Cubes of cucumber rather than slices give variety. Cooked 
vegetables should be firm, that they may be cut in neat pieces 
of uniform shape and size. For this reason, new potatoes are 
better than old. Salad herbs and plants have but little food 
value: they are simply appetizers. In complex salads, or 
salads of many ingredients, nutritious food materials are 
mixed with those that are simply savory, or spicy and crisp, 
and such salads not only tempt the appetite, but satisfy it- 
These nutritious articles, whether cooked vegetables, meat or 



I 

J 



FRENCH DRESSING 353 

fish, before being combined with the crisp plants, are usually 
marinated or allowed to stand some time in a French dressing, 
all or a part of which they will absorb. 

DRAINING SALAD MATERIALS 

When mayonnaise or a thick boiled dressing is to be used 
with salad material that has been marinated, the marinade 
is carefully drained pff , lest it thin the dressing that is to be 
added. 

POINTS TO BB REMEMBERED IN SALAD MAKING 

(i) Salad herbs and plants should be clean, cold and crisp. 

(2) Salad materials that are cut should be neat and sym- 
metrical in shape. 

(3) Meat, fish, etc., and most cooked vegetables, used in 
salads, should be well marinated and cold before mixing with 
crisp plants and sauce. 

(4) -The ingredients composing the salad should not be 
combined until the last moment before serving. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

(for uncooked or cooked vegetables and for mari- 
nating COOKED SALAD MATERIALS) 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 6 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of fresh ground 2 to 6 tablespoonfuls of lemon 
pepper. juice or vinegar. 

A few grains of cayenne, paprika or black pepper. 

If desired — , 

A few drops of onion juice, or the salad bowl may be rubbed 
with a slice of onion, or clove or garlic. 

Mix. the condiments — a little mustard is approved by some 
— add the oil and, when well mixed, add the acid, a few drops 
at a time, and beat until an emulsion is formed, then pour 
over the prepared materials and toss with the spoon and 
fork, until the dressing has been absorbed. No dressing 
should remain in the bottom of the bowl and the leaves or 
other materials should be glossy with oil ; if they look dry, 
more dressing is needed. Claret vinegar is often used with 



354 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVLNfG 

lettuce salad. Recipes for mayonnaise and boiled dressings 
may be found on pages 237 and 239. 

The former although given first is not the best approved 
manner of dressing a salad with French dressing. Mix the 
pepper and salt, the pepper if possible should be ground at the 
moment (tiny china or wood spice mills may be bought for 
table use), then add the oil and when the salt is dissolved or 
taken up by the oil sprinkle this upon the prepared salad, 
then turn the leaves over and over as before and finish with 
the lemon juice or vinegar. Lemon juice which is a natural 
acid is **far and away" preferable to any variety of vinegar 
any one of which if not a "manufactured" product is at least 
a product of fermentation. The quantity of acid used depends 
upon the variety of salad and individual taste, but a salad is 
not intended for an acid dish. The acid flavor may be made 
more pronounced by adding the acid first (instead of the oil) 
with the condiments and the oil last. 

ENDIVE SALAD 

If the endive be wilted, revive by setting the stalk in water 
(avoid wetting the leaves). Use the well-blanched leaves 
only; wipe these with a damp cloth. Just before serving. 
dress with French dressing made with tarragon vinegar. 
Garnish with slices of radish and a whole radish cut to resemble 
a flower. Or use lemon juice and sprinkle with fine-chopped 
tarragon leaves. Serve with roast game. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Asparagus alone or in combination with lettuce or cooked 
vegetables is served with French, mayonnaise or boiled dress- 
ing. It is good with cooked chicken or egg and mayonnaise 
dressing. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD MOULDED IN ASPIC 

Put a little chicken aspic in a charlotte mould standing in 
ice water; when set arrange upon it slices of hard-boiled egg 
and asparagus points. Dip cooked asparagus tips in aspic 
and press against the chilled sides of the motdd; when firm 



ASPARAGUS SALAD MOULDED IN / 



EGG.AND.TOMATO JELLY SALAD. (See pi 



SALMON SALAD. (Sec [ 



TOMATO SALAD 355 

fill with alternate layers of asparagus, mixed with jelly mayon- 
naise and aspic jelly. Serve on a larger mould of the same 
with lettuce and mayonnaise. 

POTATO SALAD 

Dress one quart of cold, boiled potato balls, cut from raw 
potatoes, blanched and cooked until tender, in the order 
given, with half a teaspoonful of paprika, two teaspoonfuls of 
salt, six tablespoonfuls of oil, a tablespoonful of onion juice and 
six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, in which beets have been pickled; 
toss the balls after the addition of each ingredient. Garnish 
with pickled beets. Serve in lettuce nests with cold meat. 

POTATO SALAD WITH FRENCH DRESSING 

Rub the inside of a salad bowl with a clove of garlic, cut in 
halves. Mix a quart of cold, boiled potatoes, cut in small 
cubes, with half a small onion, grated, and a tablespoonful of 
fine-cut parsley. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and five or 
six tablespoonfuls of oil. and toss until evenly mixed; then 
toss again with three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Let stand 
in a cool place a little time before serving. 

POTATO SALAD WITH BACON (HOT) 

Cut one-fourth a pound of tender sliced bacon into tiny 
bits, and fry until a very light brown. Take out the bits of 
bacon, and sautd in the fat a small, delicately flavored onion, 
cut fine. Add half as much vinegar as fat, a very little salt, 
a few grains of cayenne, and half as much boiling water, or 
meat broth, as vinegar. Have ready potatoes boiled, un- 
pared, until tender in salted water. Remove the skins and 
slice the hot potatoes in the frying-pan, enough only to take 
up the liquid, sprinkle in the bits of cooked bacon, toss to- 
gether and serve: 

TOMATO SALAD 

Plunge small tomatoes of similar size, in a wire basket, into 
boiling water. Remove at once, and cut out a circular piece 
around the stem of each. Remove the skins, and set aside 



356 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

on ice to chill. When ready to serve, dispose each tomato 
on a lettuce leaf seasoned with French dressing. Fill each 
cavity with a spoonful of mayonnaise or boiled dressing, 
and press into the dressing quarters of hard-boiled eggs. 
Before setting aside to chill, tomatoes are usually dusted 
inside with salt, to draw out the liquid, but the salt certainly 
toughens the tomato. 

TOMATO-AND-CUCUMBER SALAD 

Alternate slices of chilled tomato and cucimiber, dressed 
with French dressing, along two sides of a salad bowl, with a 
line of heart leaves of lettuce between. Decorate the slices 
of tomato with stars of mayonnaise dressing. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 

Peel small tomatoes, and cut out the hard pieces around the 
stem ends, to make tomato cups. Sprinkle inside lightly 
with salt and pepper, and fill with equal portions of celery 
and walnuts, cut in pieces and mixed with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Serve on lettuce leaves, and garnish with curled celery 
(see page 35, Chapter IV). Pass mayonnaise on a separate 
dish. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Cream one-fourth a cup of butter, and beat into it the yolk, 
then the white, of an egg. Add, also, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and one-fourtli a teaspoonful, each, of mustard, salt, 
and paprika. Then pour on very gradually, beating con- 
stantly, half a cup of hot vinegar. Cook over hot water, imtil 
the mixture thickens a little, — it should be like thick cream, — 
and let cool before stirring into a generous pint of fine-shredded 
cabbage, prepared for salad. This makes an acid dressing. 

CABBAGE SALAD, NO. 2 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, half a teaspoonful of mustard, 
mixed for the table, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of salt. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, then, gradually, five tablespoonfuls of hot 
vinegar. Stir and cook over hot water, until the mixture is 



FRENCH BEAN SALAD 357 

thick and smooth. Just before using, mix with crisp, fine- 
shredded cabbage. The centre of a handsome head of cabbage 
may be cut out and shredded and the shell thus formed used 
as a bowl from which the salad is served. The cabbage bowl 
may stand upon a hot napkin holding hot fried oysters. If 
the cabbage bowl be chilled, the heat of the napkin will not 
reach the salad. 

CUCUMBER SALAD FOR FISH COURSE 

With a handy sheer remove the outside rind from the cu- 
cumbers, cut in thin slices, and let stand in ice water to chill, 
retaining the slices in the order in which they were cut. Wipe 
dry, and arrange the slices in the salad bowl in the form of a 
Greek cross. Make a French dressing in the proportion of 
three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar to six tablespoonfuls 
of oil, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of paprika. Rub 
the inside of the salad bowl with the cut side of an onion, 
before the salad is disposed in it. 

APPLE-AND-CRESS SALAD (NORMANDY) 

Pare and cut four apples into short, match-shaped pieces. 
Dress with oil, vinegar or lemon juice, salt and paprika. 
Dress the leaves from a bimch of cress in the same manner. 
Dispose the apple in a serving dish, with the cress in a wreath 
around it. This salad will be found particularly appetizing 
to serve with game, domestic ducks, geese, and roast pork. 

FRENCH BEAN SALAD 

Use flageolets, the dried, green beans imported from France. 
These beans are also put up in glass bottles, but the dried are 
less expensive and, probably, more wholesome. Soak in 
cold ^water several hours, then drain and set to cook in boiling - 
salted water. When tender set aside to cool, then dress with 
Frencli dressing made with onion juice. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. Garnish with stuffed olives. Lima beans are par- 
ticularly good as a salad, so, also, are cold, Boston baked 
beans- Any one of these, after being dressed, may be 
sprinkled with fine-chopped parsley, olives, cucumber pickles, 
green or red peppers or chives. 



358 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CRESS-AND-EGG SALAD 

Dress a bunch of cress with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. 
Cut the whites of two hard-boiled eggs into eighths, length- 
wise, and arrange them on the cress to simulate the petals of 
a flower. Press a star of mayonnaise dressing in the centre 
of the petals. Pass an egg yolk through a sieve and arrange 
around the dressing. Send to the table in this form, but toss 
together when serving. 

CAULIFLOWER AND BEET SALAD 

Dress flowerets of cold cooked cauliflower with oil, salt 
pepper, and vinegar or lemon juice. Dress the shredded out- 
side leaves of a head of lettuce, and a beet, cut in figures, and 
the chopped trimmings, each, separately, with the same 
ingredients. Dispose the lettuce in the centre of a serving- 
dish, and the carefully drained cauliflower above. Sprinkle 
with the figures cut from the beet, and dispose the chopped 
beet in points around the central mass. Serve mayonnaise 
in a dish apart. 

OKRA SALAD 

Select young and tender okra pods; wash clean, then boil 
until tender; drain and set aside to cool. Cut in slices one- 
fourth an inch in thickness. If at hand, rub over the inside 
of the salad bowl with the cut side of a clove of garhc, or put 
in the centre of the bowl a cube of bread, rubbed with the 
garlic. Add to the bowl the okra, a green sweet pepper, 
chopped fine, and a little fresh-grated horseradish. Sprinkle 
over a little salt, toss about to distribute the salt, then add 
olive oil, to coat the ingredients lightly; gently toss and mix, 
then add a little vinegar, tarragon preferred. Serve each 
portion on a heart leaf of tender lettuce. Slices of fresh to- 
mato or cubes of tomato jelly are an eflfective garnish for an 
okra salad. 

CHEESE-AND-CELERY SALAD 

Cut blanched celery stalks into small pieces ; add half the 
bulk of Edam cheese broken or cut into bits; dress with French 



J 



BIRD'S NEST SALAD. (See pace s 



CHICKEN SALAD IN SALAD ROLLS. <Soe page jBiJ 



CRESS-AND-EGG SALAD, 



A NEW SPINACH SALAD 359 

dressing; turn into a salad-bowl, lined with heart leaves of 
lettuce. For a garnish, remove the centre from half a tomato, 
cut the edge in points to simulate the petals of a flower, and 
fill with two or three celery tips. Serve with bread-and- 
butter sandwiches. 

ENDIVE-AND-EGG SALAD 

Arrange a head of well washed and dried endive on a salad- 
dish with the blanched leaves in the centre. Dispose about 
the blanched heart four hard-boiled eggs, cut into lengthwise 
quarters. Mix half a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
paprika and six tablespoonfuls of oil. Stir in gradually 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Pour over the endive and 
^SE' Toss together and serve. 

CELERY, ENGLISH WALNUT-AND-PIMENTO SALAD 

Add one-third a cup of beaten cream to three-fourths a 
cup of mayonnaise, a cup and a half of sliced celery, three- 
fourths a cup of English walnuts, and two chopped pimentoes, 
after cutting from the latter some fanciful figures. Arrange 
in nests of lettuce, garnish each with one of the figures, a nut, 
and celery, and place celery tips between the nests. 

BIRD'S NEST SALAD 

Fashion small nests from cooked spinach, chopped and 
seasoned with salt, pepper, oil, and lemon juice. When cold 
arrange in the nests eggs of Neufchatel cheese, flecked with 
paprika. Shape the eggs with the smooth sides of butter 
paddles. Fill in between the nests with dressed lettuce or 
blanched celery tips. Serve with brown bread-and-butter 
sandwiches. In serving the nests, use a broad-bladed silver 
knife. 

A NEW SPINACH SALAD (JULIA D. CHANDLER, 

PHILADELPHIA) 

I Neufchatel cheese. Salad oil. 

4 hard boiled yolks of eggs. Salt. 

3-4 a cup of cooked spinach. Cayenne. 

Sift the yolks of egg and spinach separately; add oil, salt 
and cayenne, to taste, mix all thoroughly, and when well 



36o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

bletided shape into balls. Serve on white leaves of lettuce 
with French, mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 

CRESS, CELBRY-AND-V\^ALNUT SALAD 

Arrange a wreath of water-cress upon a serving-dish. 
Inside this place some fine-cut celery, and in the centre pile 
some meats of English walnuts, sliced thin. Garnish with 
sprays of curled celery. Sprinkle witli salt and pepper, mix 
thoroughly and dress with oil ; then mix again, adding half 
as much vinegar as oil; mix once more and serve. 

EQG-AND-TOMATO-JELLY SALAD 

Cook a pint of tomatoes, a bay leaf, a slice of onion, and a 
stalk of celery fifteen minutes; add one-fourth a package of 
gelatine softened in one- fourth a cup of cold water, then strain. 
Chill four cups. Press half a cooked egg^ dipped in liquid 
gelatine, against the side of each cup; when set fill with the 
jelly. Unmould on shredded lettuce, dressed with French 
dressing. Serve with mayonnaise. 

TOMATO JELLY WITH NUT SALAD 

Prepare a tomato jelly as above, adding, if convenient, half 
a cup of mushroom trimmings or a tablespoonf ul of mushroom 
catsup. Turn into a round border mould. When cold and 
turned from the mould, fill the open centre with shredded cab- 
bage, pecan nuts, and a sweet red pepper, cooked and sliced, 
mixed with mayonnaise or a boiled dressing. 

CELERY JELLY 

Let a cup of celery stalks simmer in three cups of chicken 
broth or water with a slice of onion, a few slices of carrot, 
and a sprig of parsley; strain and season with salt and pepper. 
To a pint of liquid add one-fourth a package of gelatine, 
softened in one-fourth a cup of cold water, and strain again. 
Tint a delicate green if wished. Mould in a ring mould; fill 
the centre with cubes of chicken and English walnuts, broken 
in pieces and dressed with mayonnaise dressing. Surround 
with heart leaves of lettuce, first dipped in French dressing. 



J 



SALMON SALAD 3'^i 

Chestnuts, roasted or boiled, cut in pieces and mixed with 
mayonnaise, are particularly good with celery jelly. The 
jelly is usually made from the. coarse outer stalks. But the 
less fibrous, inner stalks may be used, and the pieces served 
in the jelly; introduce these as pieces of fruit in a fruit jelly 
(see page 507). 

CHICKEN SALAD IN SALAD ROLLS 

Use by measure twice as much chicken as celery — cut the 
chicken in small cubes — do not chop it — and marinate with 
French dressing. When ready to serve drain and mix with 
mayonnaise dressing. If boiled dressing be used, marinate 
the chicken with part of that, adding more with the celery 
when ready to serve. 

SHRIMP-AND-CUCUMBER SALAD 

Break the shrimps in pieces and marinate with French 
dressing. At serving time, add an equal quantity of chilled 
cubes of cucumber; mix with mayonnaise dressing. Shape 
into a mound and cover lightly with whole shrimps and the 
heart leaves of lettuce. Surround with sliced cucumbers, 
dressed with French dressing flavored with onion juice. 

SWEETBREAD, CUCUMBER-AND-TOMATO SALAD 

Marinate a pair of cooked sweetbreads with French dressing; 
chill, drain, and mix with sliced cucumbers and mayonnaise 
dressing, whitened with whipped cream. Arrange in a salad- 
dish. Surround with slices of chilled tomato in nests of lettuce 
with French dressing. On the tomato dispose slices of sweet- 
bread, capped with stars of mayonnaise. 

SALMON SALAD 

Let two slices of boiled salmon cool in the liquid in which 
it Tvas cooked ; remove the skin and bones and marinate with 
oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper. When ready to serve, 
drain and dispose on lettuce, cut in ribbons and dressed with 
French dressing. Surround with a circle of sliced cucumbers. 
Serve with mayonnaise or a cold Bemaise sauce. Sauce Tar- 
tare is also good. 



362 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SCALLOP SALAD 

Soak the scallops in salted water; let simmer five minutes 
in boiling water; drain, cool, cut in slices and marinate with 
French dressing. At serving, drain and mix with an equal 
bulk of celery; dress with mayonnaise; shape in a mound. 
Mask with mayonnaise. Outline designs on the side of the 
mound with capers ; fill the designs with chopped white of 
egg and figures cut from beets. 

OYSTER SALAD IN ICE BOWL 

Freeze three-fourths an inch of water in a large charlotte 
russe mould. Weight a smaller mould and set upon the centre 
of the ice. Fill the outer mould with water and let freeze. 
Fill the small mould with warm water and lift it out. Line 
the open space (the ice bowl) with lettuce. Fill with layers 
of "plumped," or scalded and chilled, oysters, marinated 
with French dressing and dressed celery or cabbage. In 
serving the salad, do not disturb the lettuce lining. Serve 
mayonnaise in a bowl apart, or use this for dressing the oysters 
before putting them in place. 

SHAD ROE-AND-CUCUMBER SALAD 

Gently simmer a shad roe with onion and bay leaf in salted 
acidulated water twenty minutes; cool, cut in slices and cubes 
and marinate with French dressing made with onion juice; to 
the cubes of roe add a cucumber, cut in cubes, and mayonnaise 
to moisten. Dispose the salad upon a bed of heart leaves of 
lettuce. Garnish the long sides with sliced cucumber and the 
top with sliced roe and chillies. 

ORANGE AND ENGLISH-WALNUT SALAD 

Slice four peeled oranges lengthwise, dress with three or 
four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Arrange the slices in a mound upon a layer of lettuce 
leaves. Dress one cup of sliced nut meats with one table- 
spoonful of oil, a dash of salt, and half a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice and dispose upon the centre of the mound.- Toss 
together before serving. 



i 



SHAD ROE-AXD-CL'CUMBER SALAD (See pase .i6j.: 



SCALLOP SALAD. 



CELERY, APPLE-AND-GREEN-PEPPER SALAD 363 



CELERY-AND-ORANGE SALAD 

Clean a bunch of celery; fringe a dozen two-inch pieces and 
make all crisp in cold water, to which lemon slices have been 
added. Wipe the stalks dry, then cut into -bits and dress 
with French dressing. Turn on to a serving-dish. Garnish 
with slices of sour orange, cut lengthwise of the orange, then 
in halves lengthwise, and the curled celery. Serve with roast 
duck. 

CELERY, APPLB-AND-PISTACHIO SALAD 

Let apple and celery, cut Julienne fashion and sprinkled 
with lemon juice, stand until chilled. Mix with mayonnaise 
dressing, to which one-fourth a cup of blanched and pounded 
pistachio nuts has been added. Garnish with lettuce and 
rings of apple sprinkled with lemon juice, to keep them white; 
decorate with stars of mayonnaise and halved pistachio nuts. 
For the ** rings," cut cored apples in slices. 

PINEAPPLE, SWEETBREAD-AND-PIMBNTO SALAD 

Mix cubes of sweetbread, pineapple, shapes cut from pimen- 
toes and bits of celery with mayonnaise dressing mixed with 
whipped cream. Shape in a mound and cover ^dth dressing. 
Decorate with figures, cut from pimentoes and surround with 
lettuce. At each comer dispose a pimento, slashed on the 
edge, with strips of pineapple in the centre, to simulate a 
bright red flower. 

CELERY, APPLE-AND-GREEN-PEPPER SALAD 

Crisp the stalks of celery by letting them stand in very cold 
-water with a slice or two of lemon half an hour. Cut the 
stalks into bits, pare and cut the apples into slices, and the 
slices into cubes," or other small shapes. Sprinkle with lemon 
juice, to avoid discoloring, and also to flavor. Scald the 
pepper, from which the seeds and veins have been removed, 
and cut into fine shreds. Mix equal portions of apple and 
celery with such quantity of pepper as is desired. Also, 
English walnuts, pecan nuts, or blanched almonds, cut in small 



364 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pieces, may be added. Mix with mayonnaise dressing, 
whitened with whipped cream, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

GRAPE, ORANGE-AND-NUT SALAD 

Remove the skins from California grapes, — white ones pre- 
ferred, — cut in halves, and remove seeds. Blanch an equal 
quantity of English walnuts or pecan nuts, and break in 
pieces. Remove peel from several oranges, and cut in length- 
wise slices. Dress each, separately, with oil and a little lemon 
juice. Mix and serve on heart leaves of* lettuce. Pistachio 
nuts, cut in slices, in place of the almonds, and a garnish of 
mayonnaise make a handsomer, but more expensive, dish. 

BANANA AND PIMENTO SALAD 

Sprinkle sliced bananas with lemon juice, to avoid discolor- 
. ing. Dispose on lettuce leaves, and sprinkle with strips of 
pimento. Garnish with mayonnaise whitened with whipped 
cream. 

COLLEGE SALAD (MARIA W. HOWARD, BOSTON) 

I cup of Young America cheese. 3 pimentoes cut in pieces. 
3 Neuch^tel cheeses. Salt and Paprika, 

loolivescut in small pieces. Cream. 

Mix the cheese, olives, and pimentoes. Season with salt 
and paprika, moisten with cream, shape with butter pats, 
arrange on lettuce leaves and marinate with a French dressing. 
Garnish with pimentoes cut in strips and horseradish dressing. 

HORSERADISH DRESSING 

^\ Mix four tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, one table- 

spoonful, each, of lemon juice and vinegar, and three table- 
spoonfuls of beaten cream. Season with salt and paprika. 

DUCK SALAD 

Cut the meat from a cold duck into thin strips or into cubes, 
marinate with salt and pepper and three portions of oil to two 
of sour orange juice. After standing some hours, drain and 
mix with half the quantity, each, of orange carpels, freed from 
SDeds and membrane, and bits of celery. Garnish with may on- 



CELERY AND ORANGE SALAD. (See i 



ENDIVE SALAD. (Set 



RELISHES AND HORS D'CEUVRES 365 

naise and half slices of orange, from which the peeling has not 
been removed. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Marinate the meat of a lobster with French dressing, after 
cutting it in cubes; drain and add two or more hard-boiled 
eggs, chopped. Dispose in a mound on a bed of lettuce leaves, 
letting the leaves come out beyond the lobster. Surround 
the lobster with slices of tomato, one overlapping another, 
each piece holding a spoonful of mayonnaise dressing; sprinkle 
the whole with fine-chopped green peppers. 

RELISHES AND HORS D'CEUVRES 

From time out of mind, as the prelude to an elaborate 
English or American dinner, raw oysters with brown bread 
and butter have been served, though conservatively inclined 
entertainers, were agreed that, at the best appointed tables, 
the perfect dinner begins with soup. 

Raw oysters on the half-shell were the opening wedge to 

innovation; and now, even on very formal occasions, the 

standard Italian custom — once considered so very Bohemian 

— ^of prefacing the meal with little "kickshaws,'* carefully 

prepared and served, has obtained. In Russia tl^ese relishes, 

or hors d'oeuvres, that serve to whet the appetite for the 

more substantial dishes that are to follow, form quite a meal 

in themselves. Also, the Italian service is quite elaborate; 

dishes, divided into compartments, are provided ; and in the 

several compartments are tastefully arranged thin slices of 

tongue, sausage, or ham, potted or devilled meats, caviare, 

turned from its receptacle and garnished with slices of lemon, 

fillets of sardine or anchovies, lobster, oysters, chickens* 

livers, pickles, cucumbers, olives, radishes, bread-and-butter 

sand^ches, oat biscuit, etc. The respective compartments of 

the dish are appropriately garnished with celery plumes, 

parsley, cress, pepper-grass, aspic jelly, etc. 

On formal occasions, perhaps the most satisfactory way of 
dealing with this feature of the meal is to place upon the plate 
of each guest just before the dinner is announcj.l a sin-jle 



366 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cold canap^. For the foundation of these, thin slices of stale 
brown or white bread, prepared as for sandwiches, are 
needed. The pieces of bread should not be more than two 
inches long and an inch and a half wide. First spread them 
with butter. Then press upon the butter, using either plain 
or fancy butter, such bits of material as it is desired to use, 
taking care to secure proper combinations in flavor and color. 
Similar canap(5s may be served at the close of the dinner 
with the cheese, though at this stage of the meal pulled bread, 
devilled biscuit, etc., with a bit of celery, an olive, and a tiny 
cube of choice cheese, are in place. 

The fancy butters are easily made, and a new kind may be 
presented on each occasion. The best of butter is, of course, 
a first requisite. This is creamed a little; then sifted material 
is added to secure such tint and flavor as is desired, cress, 
olives, capers, cooked spinach, chopped pounded, and sifted, 
give a green tinge to butter. Either fish or flesh may be used 
as the canopy or covering. Anchovies may be added to green 
butter to produce anchovy butter, while lobster coral alone 
gives a reddish color to butter. Cooked yolks of eggs, sharp- 
ened with capers, are added with advantage to almost any 
fancy butter. When pastes, as of ham, sardine, etc., are used, 
a forcing-bag and tube is called into requisition to place them 
neatly upon the bread. Hot savories or hors d'oeuvres may be 
substituted for the cold, either at the beginning or at the end 
of the meal. These include savory souffles of fish or cheese, 
or of highly seasoned ragout mixtures, also various kinds of 
cheese mixtures, Gnocchi, rarebits, etc. All are served in 
tiny paper or pastry cases, or in very small individual portions. 
In all savories, whether hot or cold, three things are essential: 
smallness in size, neatness and daintiness in appearance, and 
piquancy in flavor. 

OYSTERS AND CLAMS 

Raw oysters and clams are served on the deep half of the 
shell ; these rest on plates of broken ice, or on a bed of ice on 
oyster plates devised for the purpose. A lengthwise quarter 
or a slice of lemon is served on each plate ; salt, cayenne pepper 
or paprika and brown-bread sandwiches are passed at the same 



J 



CREAMED OYSTERS AU GRATI^ IN GREEN PEPPERS. 



LOBSTER SANDWICHES (Ste i 



MATERIALS FOR HORS DOEUVRES. 



CANAPES, INDIAN STYLE 367 

time. Sometimes a thin slice of cucumber, dipped in French 
dressing, is put between the bread. 

OYSTER-AND-CLAM COCKTAILS 

Oyster and clam cocktails are served from small glasses, or 
from tomatoes, skinned, with centres scooped out to form cups. 
Oysters are also served hot, in scallop or silver shells, or in 
cocottes or souffle dishes; five or six oysters constitute the 
service. The oysters are seasoned, bits of butter are added 
and the dish is set into the oven long enough to plump the 
oysters. Surround with tiny sippets of toast. Serve lemon, 
slice or quarter, on each plate. 

OLIVES 

Olives, served as a relish or hors d'ceuvre, should be very 
cold ; if convenient, they may be arranged on a bed of ice. 

STUFFED OLIVES WITH PUREE 

Have ready round croutons of cold bread ; spread these with 
p^t6 de foie gras, anchovy paste, or with ham, chicken liver, 
or smoked tongue made into a purde. In the centre of the 
crouton place a pimola (olive stuffed with sweet peppers) 
and pipe sifted yolk of egg, fine chopped white, fine-chopped 
aspic or mayonnaise dressing around it. If pimolas are not 
at hand, use olives ; cut off a thin slice from the broad end of 
the olive, that it may stand level ; then with a sharp knife peel 
the olive round and round in a spiral, keeping close to the 
stone; press the olive back in shape, and fill the cavity left 
by the stone with anchovy paste or fillets, pieces of pimento, 
capers, etc., etc. : finish as before. 

CANAPES, INDIAN STYLE 

1-4 a cup of cooked ham. i tablespoonful of chutney. 

1-4 a cup of cooked chicken. 1-2 a teaspoonful of curry powder. 

I -4 a cup of butter. Salt and pepper as needed. 

Pound the ingredients in a mortar; pass through a sieve 
and spread on rounds, diamonds or crescents of bread, fried 



368 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and cooled. Decorate with fine-chopped white and yolk of 

LOBSTER CANAPES 

Cut out diamonds, hearts, or rounds of bread one-fourth an 
inch thick and two inches in diameter. Spread with butter, 
and brown in the oven. When cold, spread with a layer of 
"green butter. " Upon this spread smoothly a layer of lob- 
ster meat, pounded in a mortar with butter, pressed through 
a sieve, and seasoned with a little paprika. Above this place 
a heart leaf of lettuce; above this, a thin slice of beet- 
root, shaped with a cutter. Set on the serving-dish, and 
force a star of mayonnaise upon the centre of the beet-root. 
Thoroughly chill before serving. For the ** green butter": 
to a quarter a pound of creamed butter add gradually the pulp 
of six boned anchovies, a tablespoonful of fine-chopped pars- 
ley, two tablespoonfuls of fine-chopped capers, and spinach 
pur^e to tint. 

LOBSTER CANAPES, NO. a 

Cut, fry, and cool the bread as usual; spread the bread 
with lobster butter; in the centre of each croustade press a 
large scallop, cut from the meat of the lobster tail, previously 
marinated for an hour or more in oil, lemon juice and paprika. 
Garnish the edge of the canap6 with capers or fine-chopped 
gherkin or parsley. 

ANCHOVY PUREE 

4 boned anchovies. 1-4 a cup of butter. 

2 hard boiled yolks of egg. A dash of paprika. 

Pound the above ingredients together in a mortar until 
smooth ; then pass through a pur^e sieve. 

ANCHOVY CROUSTADES 

Have ready rounds of bread, fried and cooled; spread these 
with anchovy pur^e and curl upon each an anchovy, drained 
from oil and wiped dry ; fill in the centre with sifted yolk of 
egg, and with a bag and vety small star tube pipe stars of 
anchovy purde around the edge of the bread. If the anchovies 



CAVIARE CROUSTADES 369 

can be separated easily into lengthwise fillets, use a single 
fillet for each croustade. 

SARDINE CANAPES 

Drain the sardines and wipe them with a cloth, to free them 
from the oil of the can ; pick off the skin and divide into fillets 
if possible. Slice a mild onion, put a layer into a dish long 
enough to take the fillets, lay the fillets on the onion, alternat- 
ing the layers, and pour over the fillets a marinade of one 
part vinegar to four of oil; let stand several hours. When 
ready to serve drain and dispose the fillets on bits of bread 
(a little longer and wider than the fillets), spread with butter 
creamed with a little fine-chopped parsley. Push a tiny heart, 
leaf of lettuce, or sprig of watercress, under the ends of each 
fillet. 

SARDINE CANAPES, NO. 2 

Substitute sardines, freed from skin and bone, for the 
anchovies in anchovy purde; spread the sardine pur(^e upon 
rounds of bread, fried and cooled ; pipe with the pur(^e so as 
to divide into quarters; fill two of these with chopped white 
of egg and two with sifted yolk of egg, or use chopped gherkin, 
olives, or pickled beet? with either whites or yolks, chopped 
fine. 

CAVIARE IN SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES (HOTEL 

MONTHLY) 

Prepare tiny Swedish timbale cases, not more than half 
an inch deep, and fill these with caviare; above the caviare 
place a freshly opened oyster and two tiny stalks of cress. 
Pass lemon slices at the same time. 

CAVIARE WITH EGGS AND CUCUMBERS 

Butter rounds of Boston brown bread, press upon these 
rings of cold boiled egg-white, fill the rings with caviare and 
place slices of cucumber, dressed with French dressing, above. 

CAVIARE CROUSTADES 

Add a few drops of lemon juice to the caviare, and mix 
and spread upon cold croustades of bread. Decorate the 



370 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

edges with fine-chopped cucumber pickles, olives, and sweet 
peppers mixed together. 

PATE-DE-FOIE-QRAS 

Pat^-de-foie-gras is used to spread sandwiches or other hors 
d'oeuvres, though thus used the aroma of the pat^ is liable to 
evaporate before the moment of eating. Cut into small 
cubes, the pat^ is an addition to dishes served hot in casseroles 
or in purees of chicken, etc., that are steamed or poached in 
timbale or border moulds. The cubes would be crushed, if 
they were stirred into the mixture. As the preparation is 
put in with spoon or pastry-bag, arrange the cubes here and 
there. 

PATE-DB-FOIE-QRAS CROUSTADES 

• 

Pound to a paste two freshly boiled fowls* livers; the livers 
of chicken or turkey will answer, but those of a goose or a 
brace of duck are better, while the equivalent of p^t6-de- 
foie-gras is best of all. Add two tablespoonfuls of creamed 
butter and a little paprika or cayenne, pass through a sieve 
and heat over water, then spread on the rounds of hot fried 
bread, piping a design above. Or stir the liver pur6e, mixed 
with the beaten yolks of two eggs, into a cup of scalded cream; 
stir until the mixture thickens, adding salt and pepper mean- 
while, then pile on the rounds of fried bread. 

SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches for service as hors d'oeuvres, either as a preface 
to a meal or with the salad, are much smaller than those 
prepared for other service, but, for all home purposes, let the 
sandwiches be small. They are best when prepared just 
before serving, but for the lunch or picnic basket they may 
be kept wrapped in confectioners* or parafiine paper. For 
large companies, wrap the sandwiches in a damp cloth, wrung 
as dry as possible, then surround with a dry cloth; or cover 
the sandwiches, neatly piled, with a large earthen bowl. Cer- 
tain sandwiches are better adapted to certain occasions than 
are others. The rules for salads hold good at all times and 






SARDINE SANDWICHES 371 

salad sandwiches at club luncheons, where the sandwiches, 
even if prepared at a grand hotel, must of necessity stand 
several hours before serving, should be gracefully declined 
by those who have regard for their stomachs. The ''much- 
worked" lettuce-salad sandwich is the worst of the lot. Any 
variety of bread twenty-four hours old is admissible. Some- 
times two varieties are combined in the same sandwich. Let 
the bread, freed from crust, be cut into slices about one-eighth 
an inch thick, then cut into strips or triangles, or stamp out 
into fanciful shapes. Use the trimmings for bread sauce, 
puddings, or bread-crumbing. Cream the butter to insure 
its spreading smoothly and evenly. Avoid spreading either 
the butter or filling over the edge. When slices of meat are 
used, let them be cut as thin as a wafer, and use more than one 
in each sandwich. Fancy butters are recommended when 
sliced meat is used. For fillings of meat or fish purees, pound- 
ing the same in a mortar to a paste is of advantage ; the addi- 
tion of butter, cream or sauce of some variety gives a proper 
consistency for spreading. Salted meats and fish give sand- 
wiches of pronounced flavor — acid in the form of lemon juice, 
chopped pickles or capers is an improvement to these and all 
fish sandwich mixtures. Pastes of fresh fish or meat will bear 
quite high seasoning. Nut pastes, or pounded and sliced 
nuts and cheese give pleasing fillings. 

Sweet sandwiches are offered with cocoa or tea; bread or 
lady-fingers, yellow or white, may be used as the foundation 
of these; jams, jellies, marmalades, preserved ginger, etc., are 
the usual fillings. 

For five o'clock tea, sandwiches, spread with flower-flavored 
butter, are considered quite aesthetic. The butter is kept over 
night, or for some hours, between layers of fresh violets or 
rose petals in a closely closed receptacle. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Remove the skin and bones from six sardines; pound in a 
niortar with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and three table- 
spoonfuls of butter; season to taste with paprika and lemon 
juice, and pass through a fine sieve. Spread crescent, or 



L 



372 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

other shaped pieces of bread, with the paste, ancj press to- 
gether in pairs. Serve on a napkin; ornament the dish 
with cress and slices of lemon. Or, substitute IloUandaise 
sauce for the butter and lemon juice. 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES 

Chop fine the meat of the lobster; add the soft parts, season 
with tabasco sauce, lemon juice and oil, and spread upon 
lightly buttered bread, cut for sandwiches. Press two 
corresponding pieces together. Serve around a support 
fashioned from bread, fastened to the plate with white of egg 
or gelatine and holding the large claws of the lobster and 
heart lettuce leaves. 

EGG-AND-CRBS8 SANDWICHES 

Cut stale bread into quarter-inch slices, and with tin cutters 
stamp out into diamonds, hearts or other fanciful-shaped 
pieces. Mix together sifted yolk of egg, cress leaves and 
mayonnaise dressing. Spread this mixture upon the bread, 
press two similar-shaped pieces together and serve around 
a bunch of cress. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, cut in quar- 
ters. 

PICKLED TONGUE-AND-RYE-BREAD SANDWICHES 

Pound the tongue (lambs' tongues are good) very fine in a 
mortar; pound at the same time a pimento or two or a table- 
spoonful of capers and a little butter or Bechamel sauce; 
pass through a sieve and finish as any sandwiches. 

HAM-AND-EGG SANDWICHES 

Poimd together in a mortar half a cup of lean, cooked ham 
and two tablespoonfuls of fat ham, chopped fine, one-third a 
cup of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of cold Bechamel or 
white sauce. Pass through a sieve. Add the sifted yolks 
of four cooked eggs, half a teaspoonful of mustard, prepared 
with tarragon vinegar, a generous teaspoonful of fine-chopped 
capers, and, if desired, a few drops of onion juice. Anchovies, 
though often used in these sandwiches, should be restricted 
to those prepared of fish. Spread upon buttered bread pre- 



J 



COTTAGE CHEESE-AND-CRESS SANDWICHES 373 

pared for sandwiches, and press two pieces together. Serve 
without delay. 

CHICKED SANDWICHES 

Pound the chopped chicken to a paste with a little chopped 
parsley and cooked yolk of egg. Season with celery-salt, 
a very few drops of onion juice, or "kitchen bouquet"; make 
more moist with butter, cold poulette, or HoUandaise sauce. 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

Scrape the tender portion of raw beef from the fibres, after 
cutting the beef into thin slices, scrape from one side and then 
from the other. Often, these sandwiches are heated over 
the coals in a broiler. Season with salt only, if for an invalid. 
Celery-salt, tabasco sauce or pepper are palatable when 
allowable 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

I cup of grated cheese. A few grains of cayenne. 

I teaspoonful of butter. The yolks of two raw eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. i cup of thin cream. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of mustard. Salt as needed. 

Melt the butter, add the cheese and seasoning, and stir 
until the cheese is melted and smooth, then stir in the yolks 
of the eggs, beaten and diluted with the cream. Use when 
cold. Milk or tomato pur^e may take the place of the cream. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICHES 

Spread thin slices of Boston brown bread, stamped out in 
oval shape and lightly buttered, with Neufchatel, or any 
cream cheese. Spread, also, an equal number of slices, 
stamped out and buttered, with fine-chopped olives and 
pimentoes mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Press together 
in pairs with a crisp heart leaf of lettuce between each pair. 
Serve while the lettuce is fresh. 

COTTAGE CHEESE-AND-CRESS SANDWICHES 

Chop the cress very fine, using only tender leaves; mix 



374 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

with the cheese, season with salt and paprika and use in the 
usual manner. 

CHEESE-AND-SALTED NUT SANDWICHES 

Mix grated Edam cheese or other cheese with butter enough 
to form a paste; season with pepper and add salted nuts 
sliced thin, not chopped. 

NORWEGIAN SANDWICHES 

1-2 a cup of Mayonnaise dressing. 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste. 
3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Rye bread. 

Mix the chopped eggs with the paste and gradually beat the 
dressing into the mixture. Use as a filling for rye bread, cut 
for sandwiches. Norwegian sandwiches are usually made 
with but one piece of bread. 



J 



CHAPTER XIII 



Cheese and What Can Be Done with It 



"Some cheeses are made o* skimmed milk and some o' new milk, 
and it's no matter what you call 'em, you can tell which is which by 
the look and the smell. " — George Eliot. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF CHEESE 

Carbo- 

Water Protein Fat hydrates Ash Fuel val 

Per Per Per Per Per oer lb. 

Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Calories 

Cheese, American, 

pale, as purchased. .. 3 1 . 6 28.8 35-9 -3 34 2.055 

Lactic 
Acid 

Cheese, Cottage 72.0 20.9 i.o 4.3 1.8 510 

Cheese, Neufchatel, 

average 50.0 ia.7 27.4 1.5 2.4 1.530 

Cheese, Pineapple, 

average 23.0 29.9 38-9 2.6 5.6 2.245 

Cheese, Swiss, 

average 31.4 27.6 34-9 i-3 4-8 2.010 

The manufacture of cheese is one of those provident pro- 
cesses instinctive in all mankind, by which food, in time of 
plenty, is transformed into a state suitable for keeping until 
a time of need. The preservation of the most valuable con- 
stituents of milk becomes possible on account of the coagulat- 
ing property of albumen, in this case in the form of casein. 
More or less of fat is also entangled in the curd during its 
coagulation; the larger the quantity of fat the softer and 
more easily broken up is the cheese during digestion. 

In cheese, then, we have a compact and concentrated nitro- 
genous food, corresponding to eggs, meat, and fish, but unlike 
meat and fish, in that it is without waste matter. The food 
value of cheese is diminished by the very fact of its compact- 

375 



376 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ness, which renders it difficult of solution. The tiny bit of 
cheese eaten at the close of a hearty dinner, as a so-called aid 
to digestion, calls for strong digestive power, and the increased 
effort of the digestive organs put forth to take care of this, 
will often digest the dinner, and then fail to digest the cheese 
itself; this may have given rise to the old couplet: 

"Oh, cheese it is a surly elf, 
Digesting all things but itself. " 

On account of its high food value cheese deserves more 
attention than it ordinarily receives in the cuisine. It is not 
adapted to children's needs, nor should it find a place, 
in a raw state, to any great extent in the dietary of sedentary 
people. Yet, finely divided, separated with other ingredients 
and subjected in cooking to gentle heat, it is readily digested 
and assimilated by many. Its proper place in the dietary 
is not in conjunction with meat, but with vegetables and 
grains. These 'supply the diluting and waste elements lacking 
in cheese, and are in turn enriched by the nitrogenous element 
of the cheese, in which they are deficient. In the preparation 
of these dishes, emphasis must be laid on the thorough cooking 
of the vegetable or grain before the addition of the cheese; 
for nothing is eaten that can exceed in indigestibility cheese 
cooked at a high temperature. 

The making of cheese was one of the first industries 
attempted by the early settlers of this country. Early in the 
seventeenth century, Cheshire cheese, made from a recipe 
brought from England, was sent from Narragansett to England 
and the Barbadoes in large quantities. At the present time 
nearly all foreign makes of cheese are successfully imitated on 
this side of the Atlantic. Rocquefort is an exception. A 
place possessing the proper conditions for ripening this cheese 
has not yet been found, in this country. 

Parmesan cheese is used quite generally in cookery; being 
very hard it is serviceable only when grated. It may be bought 
in bulk, sawed from the whole cheese. In this condition it 
will keep in a cool place almost indefinitely. It can also 
be bought, grated ready for use and put up in sealed bottles. 
Unless the entire contents of a bottle are to be used soon 



I 

1 



COTTAGE CHEESE 377 

after opening the same, this is not an economical procedure, 
as the grated cheese moulds very quickly upon exposure to 
the air. 

SERVICE OF CHEESE 

Cheese is usually served as a part of the dessert, or it may 
be placed before the dessert with the salad, when the salad 
does not accompany the game or roast. A bit of brown bread 
or a hard cracker with butter are passed at the same time. 
The French custom of omitting the sweets and ending the 
meal with salad and cheese has obtained to considerable ex- 
tent in this country. In accord with this is the custom of 
passing, in place of a sweet, Camembest or Neufchatel cheese 
either whole with a cheese knife, or cut in small cubes and 
disposed upon a handled cheese plate, covered with lace paper 
and accompanied by a cheese fork, and a tiny jar of Bar-le- 
due (a currant preserve made in such a manner that the 
seeded currants retain their shape). Lemon cheese-cakes 
are often substituted for the raw cheese. 

Small cheese, like Edam and pineapple, are prepared for 
serving by sawing off the top or cutting with a " butter tester " 
which leaves a scalloped edge. The cheese is then set in a 
silver cheese-holder, or wrapped in a folded napkin, on a plate. 
A cheese scoop is needed for the service. For occasional ser- 
vice, pieces may be scooped out from a fresh cheese and piled 
on a plate covered with lace paper. A Stilton or Chester 
cheese, cut in halves, is served surrounded by a folded napkin. 
Young America and pineapple are identical in manufacture, 
but differ in shape. American dairy cheese is usually cut in 
small uniform pieces and served upon a lace-paper covered 
plate. Celery is a favorite accompaniment of cheese when a 
salad is wanting. 

COTTAGE cheese; 

Let fresh milk stand in a temperature of ioo° Fahr. from 
one to three days, or until the curd separates from the whey. 
Turn the curd into a coarse cotton bag and let hang in a 
cool, dry place about twenty-four hours, or until the curd is 
free from whey. Add salt and sweet cream, to taste, and 



378 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

shape into small balls. In winter the process may be hastened 
by heating thick, sour or ''clabbered" milk over hot water, 
but, if the water be too hot, a tough cheese results. The 
cheese is most rich and creamy, when the separation takes 
place at a low temperature, that is at about ioo° Fahr. 

CHEESE CAKES 

1 1-2 cups of cottage, cream or The grated rind and juice of i 
Neufchatel cheese. lemon. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoon fuls of cream. 1-2 a cup of currants and citron. 
I tablespoonful of melted butte^. 1-4 a cup of sherry wine. 

Press the cheese through a colander or potato ricer and add 
the sugar, cream, melted butter, the juice and rind of the 
lemon, the eggs beaten light, the wine, and the fruit cut in 
small pieces. Line small tins with pastry, fill with the cheese 
mixture and bake about fifteen minutes, or until the pastr}' 
is baked; sprinkle with powdered sugar. Serve when partly 
cooled. The currants and citron may be omitted and the 
cakes served with bar-le-duc, or other choice preserve. They 
are also good with stewed prunes — ^sliced and sugared oranges, 
etc. 

CHEESE CREAM 

The yolks of 3 eggs. 1-2 a cup or more of grated cheese, 
1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. Parmesan prefered. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. i level teaspoonful of gelatine. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of mustard. 4 tablespoon fuls of cold water. 

I cup of scalded milk. i cup of double cream. 

Mix the salt, pepper, and mustard with the beaten eggs 
and pour on slowly the hot milk; return to the fire and cook 
as a "boiled" custard; add the softened gelatine and ^>train 
over the cheese ; stir over hot water, until the cheese is melted, 
then stir in ice water, until the mixture begins to stiffen ; fold 
in the cream beaten solid, and set aside in a mould to become 
firm. When ready to serve, cut in slices and stamp out figures 
with fanciful-shaped cutters. Serve on rounds of brown or 
graham bread; sprinkle the top with paprika. Use also in 
making hors d'oeuvre. 



J 



BREAD-AND-CHEESE CROUTONS 379 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE MOULDED WITH NUTS 

Beat sifted Neufchatel, cream or cottage cheese (one cup) 
a tablespoonful of melted butter, one-fourth a cup of sweet 
cream, a dash of red pepper, and a cup of blanched and chopped 
English walnuts, pecan nuts, chopped olives or pimentoes 
until well mixed. Use a piece of confectioner's paper, to 
handle and press the mixture into an oblong shape. Serve 
with vegetable salad — celery, tomato or lettuce preferred — 
and crackers. One-fourth a cup of tiny, green string-beans, 
a pimento and five olives, the beans and the pimento cut in 
tiny cubes and the olives chopped, are particularly good com- 
bined with cheese. Serve with lettuce dressed with French 
dressing. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-2 a cup of tomato pur^e. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i cup, or 4 ounces of grated cheese. 

1-4 a teaspoonful, each, of salt, 3 eggs 
soda and paprika. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, soda, seasoning, and purde ; 
let boil five minutes, then add the grated cheese and the yolks 
of the eggs, and lastly fold in the whites of the eggs beaten 
dry. Bake in a buttered souffle dish until well puffed and 
delicately colored, about twenty-five minutes. Let the dish 
stand in hot water. Serve as soon as removed from the oven. 
This dish is more conveniently served, when it is baked in in- 
dividual china dishes or in paper cases. The latter should be 
oiled and dried in the oven, before filling. In individual por- 
tions ten to fifteen minutes* baking is needed. (See Souffles, 
page 543) 

BREAD-AND-CHEESE CROUTONS 

Cut bread in rounds, diamonds, or other shapes, and half an 
inch thick; spread lightly with butter, then cover with a 
very fine shaving of American factory cheese, dust with 
paprika and set in the oven just long enough to melt the 
cheese. The cheese should not be brown. The bread may 
be sauted in butter, before being covered with cheese, if pre- 
ferred. 



38o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CHEESE TIMBALES 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-2 a pound of grated cheese. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Salt and paprika. 

1-2 a cup of cream. 3 whole eggs and 

1-2 a cup of milk. 4 yolks of eggs. 
1-2 a cup of white stock. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour and liquid; in this melt 
the cheese, and add the seasonings and the eggs beaten until 
well mixed. Bake in very small timbale moulds, standing 
on a folded paper in a pan of hot, Jtot boiling, water. Let cook 
until the centres are firm. Serve hot with cream or tomato 
sauce. If desired more firm, use but one-fourth a cup of 
stock. 

CHEESE IN SHELLS 

1 cup of bread crumbs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt and 

paprika. 
About a pint of milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

2 eggs. 1-4 a poimd of grated cheese. 

Mix the butter with the crumbs ; add the salt and paprika, 
the cheese and the eggs, beaten and mixed with the milk. 
Turn into buttered scallop shells, cocottes or cups, and bake 
until the egg is set. Serve at once in the dishes. 

GNOCCHI A LA ROMAINE 

(an ITALIAN CHEESE DISH) 

I -4 a cup of cornstarch. i pint of milk. 

1-4 a cup of flour. Yolks of two eggs. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-4 a cup of butter. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of paprika. i cup of grated Parmesan cheese. 

Mix the cornstarch, flour, salt, and paprika with milk to 
pour and stir into the remainder of a pint of milk, scalded in 
the double-boiler; stir constantly, until the mixture thickens, 
and, occasionally, for twenty minutes, then add the yolks of 
the eggs, mixed with the creamed butter and half of the cheese; 
stir until the eggs look cooked and the cheese is melted, then 
turn into a shallow dish, to form a paste half an inch tliick. 



CHEESE BALLS. (See paee jSi.) 



CHEESE CAKES WITH PRESERVED CHERRIES. 



CHEESE STRAWS 381 

When cold cut in diamonds, arrange in a baking-dish that may 
be sent to the table, in two or more layers, with grated cheese 
between and on the top. Set the dish in the oven to reheat 
the paste and melt the cheese. Serve as a luncheon or supper 
dish or as a cheese course, either with or without celery, or 
with green vegetable salad. 

CHEESE RINGS 

Let one-fourth a cup of butter and half a cup of rich, creamy 
milk heat to the boiling point, then stir in three-fourths a 
cup of flour, sifted with half a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of 
cayenne or paprika, stir and cook until the mixture leaves the 
sides of the pan, then turn into a cold dish and beat into it two 
ounces (half a cup) of grated cheese and two eggs, one at a 
time. With a pastry-bag and small plain tube shape the 
dough, on oiled paper, in the form of rings; brush these with 
beaten egg and fry in hot fat three or four minutes. Sprinkle 
with grated cheese and serve hot with a green salad. They 
are also good cold. Parmesan cheese is preferable, but any 
cheese may be used. The paper should be of such size as will 
lie on the top of the fat. When the rings float from the paper, 
remove it, turn the rings and fry as doughnuts. 

CHEESE BALLS 

I 1-2 cups of American factory, 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. ^ 

Neufchatel or cottage cheese. 1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

Cracker crumbs. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Mix together the cheese, salt, and paprika, then add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. Shape in small balls, roll in 
sifted cracker-crumbs and fry in deep fat to a delicate brown 
color. The balls will cook in less than one minute. Drain 
on soft paper at the oven door. Serve on a lace paper, either 
with celery at the close of dinner, or with a green vegetable 
salad before the dessert. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Roll plain or puff -paste into a rectangular sheet one-fourth 
an inch thick. Sprinkle one-half with grated cheese, Parme- 



382 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

san being preferable; sprinkle also very lightly with paprika 
or cayenne. Fold the other half of the paste over the cheese 
and press the edges together; fold again, then pat and roll 
out as before; then add cheese as at first, folding and rolling 
out in the same way; add cheese twice more, then, when it 

5*i-t V ^ is rolled into a sheet, cut into strips or straws and rings. Bake 

' . . t' about eight minutes. 

f 

CHEESE STRAWS, NO. a 

I cup of pastry flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-3 a cup of butter. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of baking- i-a to i cup of cheese — 

powder. cold water. 

Make as any plain paste, adding the grated cheese with 
the butter. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i cup of American factory cheese 

I -3 a cup of flour. cut in small pieces. 

2-3 a cup of milk, or 1-2 a cup of grated Parmesan 

Chicken stock. cheese. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Paprika. 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, and 
liquid; add the beaten yolks, the grated cheese and when well 
mixed stir in the pieces of cheese; turn into a dish to cool. 
Shape in balls, cylinders or pears, egg-and-breadcrumb 
and fry in deep fat to a delicate brown; drain on soft paper. 
Serve with a green vegetable salad or with crackers, 

VS^ELSH RABBIT 

I tablespoonful of butter. 1-2 a cup of cream or ale. 

I - 2 a pound of cheese. Salt and paprika. 

Yolks of two eggs or 1-4 a teaspoonful of soda: 
I whole egg. 

Put the butter into a hot dish, let melt and run over the 
bottom; add the cheese, grated or cut fine, stir constantly 
until the cheese is melted, then stir in the yolks of eggs, beaten , 
and diluted with the cream or ale ; add also the salt, paprika, 
and soda. Stir until smooth and creamy, then serve on the 



i ROMAINE. (Sm pace 



GOLDEN BUCK 383 

untoasted side of bread, toasted but upon one side and disposed 
in shallow, individual egg dishes. This dish is a favorite for 
chafing-dish cookery. 

CHBESB-AND-TOMATO RABBIT. 

I tablespoonful of butter. 1-2 a cup of tomato puree. 

I - 2 a pound of cheese. i -4 a teaspoonf ul of salt. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonf ul of soda. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

Prepare as Welsh rabbit. 

GOLDEN BUCK 

Make a plain Welsh rabbit as given in the recipe; add to 
this half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and a few 
drops of tabasco sauce. Serve on toast with a poached egg 
above the cheese mixture. 



CHAPTER XIV 
Batters and Doughs 

"The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the 
women knead their dough to make cakes to the queen of heaven." 

" Ephraim is a cake not turned. " 

"Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and 
make cakes upon the hearth. " 

Very early in the history of the world, it seems, grains and 
other Substances, less nutritious, were ground between stones, 
mixed with water to a dough, and baked upon hot stones or 
before the fire. / 

An uncooked piece of dough, being left accidentally a 
sufficient length of time, would, by the natural process of 
fermentation, give rise to a light dough that might be baked 
in this condition. In some way like this the desirability of 
providing an article of food that was light and porous — and 
easily penetrated by the digestive fluids — was probably dis- 
covered, and in time, by means of artificial processes, other 
and less uncertain means of lightening dough were evolved. 

DEFINITIONS OF BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

When meal or flour is mixed with liquid to such a consistency 
that it may be beaten, the mixture is called a batter. When 
the batter is of such consistency that it may be poured from 
the vessel or spoon in a continuous stream, it is called a pour 
batter. When the batter is of such thickness that it breaks 
and drops in pouring, it is a drop batter. When a mixture, 
cannot be beaten (beating is done by cutting down with a 
spoon or other utensil from the top to the bottom of a mixture, 
and bringing the spoon up to the surface, passing over and 
down again, and thus turning the mixture over and over), 
but needs be made smooth by tossing and cutting with a 

384 






EXPANSION OF WATER IN COMPOSITION 385 

knife, kneading with the hands, or beating with a rolling-pin, 
the mixture becomes a dough. The general proportions of 
flour and liquid to produce batter or dough are as follows: 
Equal measures of flour or meal and water make a pour batter; 
two measures of flour to one of liquid produce a drop batter, 
and three measures of flour to one of liquid produce a dough. 
These proportions are subject to many modifications, owing 
to combination with other ingredients, as sugar, butter, eggs, 
etc. Allowance must, also, be made for the kind of liquid 
and for the difference in the thickening properties of different 
kinds and grades of flour or meal. 

THE LIGHTENING OF BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Batters and doughs are made light by: 

TM. . i. n. r Leaven. 

». fhe generation of gas Spontaneous. j 

(Carbon dioxide) J (Decomposition of Starch.) | 

or [ ^ ' 

Fermentation. Artificial. Action of acids on carbonate or 

alkali : — 

i'. Bicarbonate of soda and muriatic acid. 

2'. Bicarbonate of soda and cream-of-tartar. 

3'. Bicarbonate of soda and acid phosphate. 

4'. Bicarbonate of soda and acids in lemon 

juice (citric), sour milk (lactic), or 

molasses (acetic) . 

2. The expansion of water in compositon. 

!By beating. 
By beaten eggs. 
By folding. 

EXPANSION OP WATER IN COMPOSITION 

The expansion of water by heat into several hundred times 
its volume is taken advantage of in making johnny-cake 
(joune or journey-cake), which originated with the American 
IndiaTis. The early settlers in this country learned how to 
make it from the squaws. The grains of com were parched in 
hot ashes, sifted and beaten into powder, then stored in long 
leathern bags. When food was needed, a few spoonfuls of 
meal were mixed with snow in winter, with water in summer, 



386 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and eaten uncooked, of cooked before the open fire. Fifty 
years ago johnny-cake was a common article of food in New 
England, but it was made from commeal ground at the mil- 
ler's and baked in the oven. 

EXPANSION OF AIR INCORPORATED 

In making gems, as the spoon goes in and out and over the 
batter in beating, air is carried into the mixture, and the glut- 
inous cell walls of the flour confine air; this expanding when 
heated (air at 70° expands about three times its volume at the 
temperature of a hot oven), in connection with the expansion 
of the water or milk used as liquid as it is changed into steam, 
makes the gems light. In making puff or plain paste, it is 
the expansion of cold water used in mixing, and of cold air 
incorporated by folding, when the paste is placed in the heated 
oven, that gives lightness to the dough. Lacking heat, the 
glutinous cell walls do not harden when thus expanded, and 
the desired lightness is lost. 

We, also, make use of the glutinous consistency of albumen 
in eggs in lightening batters and doughs. In this case, too, 
the greatest care must be exercised in adding the beaten eggs 
to the mixture, lest the expanded cells be broken, and in bak- 
ing at such a temperature that the cells do not expand too 
quickly; and yet there must be sufficient heat to fix or harden 
the walls. 

LEAVEN 

Without doubt the earliest method of lightening batters 
and doughs was the one noted at the beginning of the chapter, 
the knowledge of which probably came by accident. Yeast 
germs, always present in the air, settling upon grains that 
had been crushed between stones and mixed with water, 
and left in a warm place, would feed upon the sweet substances 
in composition and thus change them into other substances, 
one of which, carbon dioxide, would lift up the dough. A 
piece of this dough added to a piece of fresh dough would lift 
up or leaven the whole. 



ARTIFICIAL FERMENTATION 387 

YEAST 

As other germs than yeast are also floating in the air, many 
of them being inimical to the growth of the yeast germs, great 
uncertainty would result in the use of natural leaven. After 
many years of experiment, it was found possible to secure a 
pure culture of yeast germs, and to store these in such a man- 
ner that life lies dormant, until the proper conditions for 
growth are present (leaven or yeast is one of the principal 
leavening agents of to-day). The process of using leaven 
and yeast is long; to secure lightness by the expansion of 
air or water requires much care in mixing and baking, whence 
other means of securing lightness were sought for by chemists. 

ARTIFICIAL FERMENTATION 

Carbonates are compounds from which gas can be set free; 
the addition of an acid to a compound that sets gas free proves 
that such compound is a carbonate. That soda is a carbonate 
may be proved by the addition of several acids, any one of 
which will set free carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide may 
also be evolved from soda simply by heating it, but when 
soda is used alone, in batters and doughs, though lightness is 
secured, other essentials are lacking; the "cake" is yellow, 
and the unchanged carbonate neutralizes the acid in the 
digestive fluids, and thus impedes digestion. 

Sour milk, lemon juice, and mol^.sses, through the lactic, 
citric, and acetic acids involved in their composition, when 
used with soda generate carbon dioxide; but the quantity 
and strength of the acids are variable. Nor is any one of 
these ingredients such as would be available or suitable at 
all times, and under all circumstances. 

The muriatic acid of the chemist seemed, at first, to be 
the ideal acid, combined with soda, to set free carbon dioxide, 
as the residue after fermentation was common salt; but the 
liberation of the gas was instantaneous, when the acid and 
soda met. So this combination was dismissed as impractical. 
Acid phosphates, the residue from which are mineral matters, 
were tried, and are still in use; but finally cream-of-tartar 



388 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

came to be considered the sine qtuj 7wn, for which the culinary 
world was seeking to complete the necessary chemical reaction 
in the process of lightening food. There were several reasons 
for these conclusions, and these hold good to-day. 

Cream-of-tartar is a harmless substance, which does not 
unite chemically with soda until the application of heat, as 
well as moisture; and the residue (Rochelle salts) is harmless, 
taken in the quantity used in food, even when a large amount 
of such food is eaten. 

There is, however, one objection to the use of soda and 
cream-of-tartar. The proportion of each must be measured 
with the greatest accuracy. Rather more than twice as much 
of cream-of-tartar as soda, by measure, is called for. If the 
quantity of soda be too great, the caustic unneutralized car- 
bonate will neutralize the acid of the gastric juice and hinder 
digestion. In this case, the yellow color of the food tells the 
story, and the food may be avoided; but, on account of this 
necessary accuracy in measurement, baking-powder has come 
into general use. 

BAKING-POWDER 

The best approved baking-powder is a composition of 
bicarbonate of soda and cream-of-tartar, mixed in such propor- 
tion that one exactly neutralizes the other. A small quantity 
of cornstarch, or flour, is added to separate the ingredients. 
These three ingredients are mixed together by sifting many 
tirnes (ten or more) so that each little particle of carbonate 
and acid be surrounded by a thin coating, or film, of starch. 
There are many grades of soda, cream-of-tartar, and flour, 
and, of course, the best give the best results. 

BICARBONATE OF SODA 

Soda is obtained from "cryolite," a native deposit found 
in the earth, from certain marine plants, and from common 
salt. At the present time the best soda is obtained from 
"cryolite" brought from Greenland, about 15,000 tons being 
annually worked up. Soda is cheap, and this ingredient is 
rarely, probably never, adulterated. Bicarbonate of soda, 
the form used for leavening purposes, is produced by chai:ging 
common soda with carbonic acid gas. 



FORMULA FOR A BAKING-POWDER 389' 

CREAM-OF-TARTAR 

The acid used to set free the carbon dioxide in bicarbonate 

of soda is a deposit from grape juice found in wine casks. 

The name "argol" is given to this grape acid, which, when 

purified, becomes cream-of-tartar. This acid exists naturally 

in the grape, but, being insoluble in alcohol, it is gradually 

deposited on the sides of the casks as the sugar of the juice is 

converted into alcohol by fermentation. The best argol is 

obtained from the wine-producing countries of Southern 

Europe, that from California, for some unknown condition of 

soil, climate or culture, being of an inferior grade. The color 

of argol depends upon the color of the grapes from which 

the juice is expressed. It varies from grayish white to reddish 

purple. Argol is first ground, and then purified. This latter 

process is an expensive one. Nothing is desirable but the 

pure grape acid; lime, coloring, and all other impurities found 

in the argol, need be removed; and the purity, hence expense, 

depends entirely upon the care of the refiners. Below is 

found the proper 

FORMULA FOR A BAKING-POWDER 

I pound, 2 ounces of cream-of-tartar. 

1-2 pound of bicarbonate of soda. 

1-4 to 1-2 a pound of cornstarch or fine flour. 

At first sight, one would say, " Why not buy the ingredients 
of a reliable chemist and mix one's o^ti baking-powder?" 
This may be done, if the product is to be used very soon ; still, 
the ingredients may not have been recently prepared and so be 
lacking in strength; then, too, the chemist has appliances for 
drying the ingredients before they are mixed, which does 
much to preserve their strength. Starch and cream-of-tartar 
can be most effectually dried out, but soda can be heated 
only slightly without the loss of gas. 

In use, baking-powder should always be sifted with the dry 
ingredients, to prevent, as far as possible, the escape of the gas, 
until the mixture is placed in the oven. In using soda and 
cream-of-tartar, pulverize and sift the soda before measuring, 



390 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and then sift both ingredients at least twice with the flour, 
being careful to separate them with flour before measuring. 

PROPORTIONS OF ARTIFICIAL LEAVENING AGENTS 

I teaspoonful of soda to i pint of thick sour milk. 
I teaspoonful of soda to i cup of molasses, for batters. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of soda to one cup of molasses, for doughs. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of soda to 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice in thick 
batters, for each two cups of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of soda to three and a half teaspoonfuls of cream-of- tartar 

to one quart of flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder to a cup of flour, in mixtures without 

eggs. 

SUGGESTIONS 

As the acid in lemon juice sets free carbon dioxide, in large 
measure, upon contact with the soda, mixtures in which these 
agents are employed will not be very light, and their use is 
restricted to cakes in which a close texture is desirable. Add 
the lemon juice to the eggs and sugar and sift the soda into 
the flour. 

Sour milk, buttermilk or cream with soda are most suc- 
cessfully used in mixtures in which commeal predominates. 
Such preparations are incomparably moister, more tender 
and delicate, when the leavening gas is thus generated, than 
when cream-of-tartar, in any form, is used as the generating 
acid. In wheat-flour mixtures, when pure cream-of-tartar 
and soda are used, either in bulk or in the form of baking- 
powder, if the correct proportions be taken and the proper 
temperature of the oven be secured, the cooked products wiU 
be neither too dry nor too porous. If such be the case, you 
have reason to suspect the presence of some other ingredient, 
or, in other words, an adulteration of the lightening agent. 



J 



CHAPTER XV 

Bread and Bread-Makingr 

" Bread is the staff of life, but bread and butter is a gold-headed 



cane. ** 



In every part of the world, from the beginning of recorded 
time, bread has been a synonym of food. The cry of the 
starving in India, the mob in France, and the poor in Italy 
has ever been for bread. The reason for this is obvious, when 
we consider that very many even of the earlier and cruder 
forms of bread were made from cereals or corn-plants, as mil- 
let, oats, barley, and rye, and that these in themselves con- 
tain all the elements necessary for the growth and repair of the 
body, and in very nearly the proportion demanded in an ideal 
dietary. At the present day, throughout the civilized world, 
wheat is known to be the grain that contains gluten in pro- 
portion and quality necessary to the making of the most 
perfect bread. 

A loaf of bread at least four thousand years old, a part of 
which was in such a state of preservation that it was possible 
to identify barley as the grain from which it was made, was 
lately found in Egypt. From records and monuments in 
that ancient land, we learn that the grain for bread was broken 
by pounding and that it was probably baked between or upon 
hot stones. The children of Israel ate leavened bread in 
Egypt, though the Chinese had used leavened bread long 
years before the time of Moses and the exodus from Egypt. 
The ancient Greeks cultivated the yeast plant, and in excava- 
tions at Pompeii an oven was found containing eighty-one 
loaves of bread not unlike our own. The older and higher 
the civilization, the more advanced the art of bread-making. 
Four hundred years ago the American Indian was just in the 

391 



392 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

infancy of the art, and the wild tribes of South Africa, to-day, 
have progressed no further. 

The bread of the ancients was made flat and thin, as thus 
the heat could better penetrate the heavy, compact dough; 
and the expression, *'to break bre.ad," was from the actual 
mode of division. Bordeau notes that our rule of politeness, 
which exacts that bread be broken at table, instead of cutting 
it, is only the tradition of a very ancient custom. 

Though the art of bread-making is of such awient origin 
and the opportunity for a general diffusion of knowledge has 
been so great, good bread is not an article in common use. 
In cities abroad, bread is not baked at home; and in this 
country, as more and more work is carried on outside the 
home-kitchen, the baking of bread is sure to follow. At the 
present time, one cannot secure from bakeries bread and 
rolls made from quite as good materials, or baked and cooled 
quite as carefully, as it is possible to provide at home. In 
general, the bread made abroad, on account of the size and 
shape of the loaf, contains less starcii in a crude form 
than that which we mav call the American loaf. While the 
foreign loaf is not acceptable to the average American, it 
probably approaches more nearly the dietetic conditions 
required by our modern mode of life. Just how far the con- 
version of starch into dextrose, or allied substances, has pro- 
ceeded in the crusty loaf has not been exactly determined: 
and, in the bread of the future, chemical processes may be 
found by which the excess of starch that ordinary bread con- 
tains may be transformed or presented in a form less taxing 
to the digestive organs. 

The process of making bread with yeast is one of the most 
fascinating of studies for the chemist or the cook. And the 
more the cook knows of the chemistry of bread-making, and 
the greater the skill with which she applies her knowledge 
to the practical working out of the process, the greater are her 
chances of securing a perfect loaf. Four of the simplest 
ingredients in the culinary laboratory enter into the com- 
position of a loaf of bread ; yet the changes through which these 
materials pass before a finished loaf is evolved are the most 
complicated in all cookery. 



J 



STARCH AND GLUTEN 393 

WHAT IS GOOD BREAD? 

Opinions differ as to just what properties good bread should 
possess. Some wish a moist crumb and tender crust, others 
a dry crumb and a flinty crust. But there are certain points 
upon which all agree; namely, bread should be agreeable in 
smell and taste, while it should be light and porous, to be 
easily penetrated by the digestive fluids. The bubbles of 
the crumb should be uniform in size and small. The surface 
should rebound when compressed, and the loaf should keep 
in good condition several days. 

INGREDIENTS USED IN BREAD 

The four ingredients that enter into a loaf of bread are 
flour, yeast, salt, and liquid. Milk or water, or a part of each, 
may comprise the latter. Bread made with milk is more 
nutritious, but it dries more quickly than does bread in which 
water is used. The texture of milk bread, even with slight 
kneading, is velvety and pleasing. Half milk and half water 
is quite generally used. Water bread, without shortening, 
carefully manipulated gives a loaf of nutty flavor, but with 
tough crust. The French excel in the production of this 
bread. Water, with two tablespoonfuls of shortening to the 
pint, is more generally preferred by American housekeepers. 

STRUCTURE OF A WHEAT GRAIN 

1. Wheat grains consist of an outer covering, largely siHca, 
removed before milling. 

2. Three layers of bran coats, in the form of cells, contain- 
ing mineral matter, gluten, oil, etc. 

3. A layer of cells, chiefly gluten and other proteid matter. 

4. Centre and largest part of the grain made up of cells, of 
which starch is the chief content. 

STARCH AND GLUTEN 

Mix wheat flour and water to form a dough. Let stand a 
short time, then wash it on a sieve over a pan of water. Let 
the water settle; and, when it is poured off, a white mass, 



394 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

r 

which, when dried, is fine as dust, is found in the pan. This 
is starch. And the doughy, gray, elastic mass left on the sieve, 
which may be taken up in the hands and pulled like candy, is 
gluten. These are the chief constituents of flour, and the 
relative proportion of these two substances determines the 
character of the flour. Gluten gives a strong, gray flour of 
slightly bitter taste, which will take up a large quantity of 
water. Such flour "spends well. " Starch gives a more deli- 
cate flour of sweet taste, which takes up, relatively, a small 
quantity of water. The tenacious, elastic gluten is needed 
in yeast mixtures, to hold the carbon dioxide that lifts up the 
dough and makes it light. But it is not as desirable in cake 
and pastry, where tenderness and delicacy are sought for. 
The relative proportion of starch and gluten in grains depends 
largely upon the soil and the climate in which the grain is 
grown. Hard spring wheat, planted in the spring and har- 
vested in August or early September in Minnesota and in North 
and South Dakota, is particularly strong in gluten, and con- 
tains a minimum quantity of starch*. Flour made from such 
wheat is designated as bread flour. Winter wheat is a softer 
variety, raised in the Middle and Southern States. It is 
planted in the fall, and harvested in the following June or 
July. Flour made from this wheat is designated as pastry 
flour, as it is well adapted to the purpose indicated by the 
name. 

WHEN TO USE BREAD AND WHEN PASTRY FLOUR 

As a general rule, bread flour is indicated in recipes where 
yeast is used, and pastry flour in all other cases. Less flour 
to a given quantity of liquid is needed, when bread flour is 
used. For a change, it is occasionally advisable to use pastry 
flour in bread-making. It gives a sweeter-tasting loaf. 

HOW TO DISTINGUISH BREAD AND PASTRY FLOUR 

Bread flour is granular to the touch. It passes readily 
through the sieve: a jar will send it through. When mixed 
into a dough, it takes up a comparatively large quantity of 
moisture. On the other hand, pastry flour is soft and oily to 
the touch. Pressed in the hand, it keeps its shape, showing 



YEAST IN BREAD MAKING 395 

the impress of the lines of the hand. It does not pass so 
readily through the sieve, and it absorbs a comparatively 
small amount of moisture. 

MILLING METHODS 

The old-fashioned way of making flour was to pulverize 
the wheat in one operation through mill-stones; and then a 
crude separation of the flour and bran and other dark portions 
of the wheat berry was made by revolving reels covered with 
what is known as silk bolting cloth. Naturally, the separation 
was imperfect, and much of the brown portion remained in 
the flour. 

Modem milling is what is known as a gradual reduction 
system, whereby the wheat is gradually and carefully reduced. 
The wheat is run through six systems of rolls, for the purpose 
of loosening the middlings. These middlings are then purified 
by means of sieves and air-suction machines, which remove 
all the brown portion of the berry. The middlings are, after 
purification, reduced to flour. The wheat grain is thoroughly 
cleaned and scoured before the flour-making process begins. 

YEAST IN BREAD-MAKING 

Yeast is a collection of living, one-celled organisms that 
partake of the nature of plant rather than animal life. These 
organisms may be produced by cultivation. In a proper 
environment — with necessary warmth, moisture, and complex 
food to feed upon — these microscopic fungi bulge a little 
upon one side. This bulge takes on' an oval shape, and soon 
separates from the parent cell as a distinct organism. Other 
cells quickly follow from the parent cell and from -the new 
cells or buds; and thus the yeast plant grows. The little 
yeast plants or cells are vigorous and tenacious of life, living 
under most adverse circumstances; but these are killed on 
exposure to a temperature of about 212° Fahr. They endure 
cold much better, as life is simply suspended in a temperature 
of about 30° Fahr. The most favorable temperature for 
their growth is between 65° and 75° Fahr. A cake of com- 
pressed yeast, one of the best forms in which a housekeeper 
can secure a supply of yeast, is a collection of yeast plants 



396 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

massed together, without the presence of suitable conditions 
for growth. By the exclusion "of air and heat, the plants may 
be kept for some days alive and in vigorous condition 
for future growth. 

In making bread, we soften the cake in liquid, to separate 
the plants, and then stir them into the flour. Salt may be 
added as a matter of taste. It retards, perhaps, the growth 
of the plant. The little plants, finding in the starch and 
gluten of the flour a complex food which they enjoy, begin to 
feed and grow or bud; and chemical changes take place. 
Starch is changed to sugar, and sugar to alcohol and carbon 
dioxide (carbonic-acid gas). The gas, in its efforts to escape, 
expands the tenacious elastic cell walls of gluten in which it 
is entangled, and lifts up the dough. If this dough be sub- 
jected to heat (212° Fahr. at the centre), the alcohol and 
carbon dioxide will be driven off, the cell walls fixed, and sweet 
bread produced. But, if the dough be left to itself, this 
change, which is called alcoholic fermentation, will be followed 
by another change. The alcohol breaks up into acetic acid 
and water; and, if baked, the resultant bread will be sour. 

A good yeast cake is of a light even color. There is an 
absence of dark streaks through it. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MIXING AND BAKING BREAD 
TIME NEEDED FOR BREAD-MAKING 

Now, the greater the number of yeast plants, the more 
quickly, other conditions being favorable, will the bread be 
lifted up; and, in making bread, we take this fact into con- 
sideration. 

If bread is to be made quickly, two, even three, compressed 
yeast cakes may be used to a pint of liquid. Thus made, 
the whole process need not take over three hours. If dough 
is to be mixed at night and baked with the first fire in the 
morning, the quantity of yeast may be reduced to one-third 
a cake to a pint of liquid. The longer time of fermentation, 
as a rule, gives the best flavored bread; for the by-products 
of fermentation, which give a peculiar and charactenstic 
sweetness to the loaf, are generated during the longer process. 



j 



THE UTENSILS 397 

In using a large quantity of yeast, we may improve the flavor 
of the bread, at the expense of tiine, by ''cutting down" the 
dough once or twice after it has risen to double its bulk. 

As the dough quickly rises again, after a part of the gas 
has been let out, this does not lengthen the process to any 
considerable extent. Still, except during extreme heat, when 
souring may be anticipated, the method fulfils the require- 
ments of occasional rather than general practice. 

PROPORTIONS OF THE INGREDIENTS 

The quantity of liquid rather than the quantity of flour 
determines the size of the loaf. Two cups of liquid will 
make two loaves of bread of average size ; but, whether two, 
two and one-half, or three portions of flour be used to one of 
liquid, the difference will be one of texture rather than of size. 
Two cups of liquid will be found a most convenient unit of 
measurement. With this use from one-third a cake of com- 
pressed yeast to one whole cake or even two or three cakes, 
according to the length of time to be spent in the operation, 
softened in half a cup of luke-warm liquid. If liquid yeast 
be used, take half a cup to two cups of liquid, in case the 
dough is to stand over night. A level teaspoonful of salt, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, if desired, and from two to three 
pints of flour complete the necessary ingredients. 

THE UTENSILS 

A heavy earthen-ware bowl holds the heat. It is easily 
cleaned, and with care will last a life-time. It should be used 
for no other purpose. The yellow ware is preferable. For 
mixing the dough, no utensil is more easily handled than a 
broad-bladed knife. A knife with wooden handle and blade 
an inch and a half wide can be purchased for fifty cents. A 
close-fitting tin cover with three or four perforations near the 
top keeps the dough in the bowl from forming a crust, and 
furnishes means of escape for gases. The favorite pan, in this 
country, for baking bread is about eight inches long, four 
inches wide, and three inches deep : two of these are required 
for baking bread made with two cups of liquid. Russia iron 
pans of French make, in which two or more long, round loaves 



398 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

are baked side by side, are occasionally used. Cylindrical 
pans with covers are seen on the market ; but bread is more 
wholesome when baked in an open pan. 

KNEADING THE DOUGH 

When all the flour that is to be used has been added, and 
the ingredients have been thoroughly mixed, scrape the dough 
from the bowl on to a moulding board lightly dredged with 
flour. Toss with the knife. Then with finger-tips lightly 
floured bring forward the back of the dough, without pressing 
the fingers into it. Let the ball of the hand, just above the 
wrist, meet the dough; press down upon it, and move it back- 
ward ; then the tips again bring forward the back of the dough; 
the ball of the hand meets it, and repeats the first process; 
and so a new portion of dough is brought in contact with the 
hand at each downward pressure. Occasionally turn the 
dough half way round, to keep it in a roundish mass: continue 
this kneading process until the mass of sticky paste is a smooth, 
elastic, fine, and even-grained ball of dough. Add but little 
flour during this process, and keep the crust that is formed by 
kneading intact by keeping the dough in motion, and never 
allowing the finger-tips to penetrate it. The mass acquires 
"body" under the manipulation. When elastic and full of 
minute air-bubbles, it has been kneaded enough. 

OBJECT OF KNEADING 

Dough is kneaded the first time to distribute evenly tne 
little yeast-plants and other ingredients, to give body to the 
dough, and bring out the elasticity of the gluten, and to make 
the mixture smooth. The second kneading is to break up 
the large cavities caused by gas bubbles, and to make the 
texture uniform and fine. The length of time required for 
the first kneading depends somewhat upon the quantity of 
flour and shortening that is to be incorporated into the dough. 
The stiff er the dough and the richer the mixture, the longer 
the time required to make it smooth and elastic. From 
fifteen to thirty minutes are required. The second kneading 
should be only of such length as is needed to put the dough 
into the proper shape for baking. 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. (See r 



UTENSILS FOR BREAD-MAKING, {See p 



BROWN BREAD AND MOL'LDS. 



RAISING BREAD 399 

TEMPERATURE AND TIME FOR RAISING BREAD 

As bacilli inimical to the proper growth of the yeast-plants 
may be introduced into the dough in the milk of water, it is 
advisable to scald the milk or boil the water, and then cool 
to a temperature not over 100° Fahr., before adding the yeast. 
While this may not kill bacilli present in the liquid, it retards 
their growth for the time being, and leaves the yeast-plant in 
possession of the field. The taste and texture of bread are 
largely dependent upon the time given for rising. If the flavor 
and other characteristics associated with home-made bread 
be desired, they can be best secured by long, slow rising at a 
temperature a little below that of the living room, or between 
55 and 60 ° Fahr. In winter, bread made with one-third a 
yeast cake to a pint of liquid, and set at 8 p. m., may be left 
standing in a room, that in the course of an hour or two drops 
to the temperature given above, until seven in the morning. 

While, all things considered, a temperature of 68° Fahr. 
is probably the most favorable for bread-making, the opera- 
tion may be hastened by setting the bowl of dough in a pan of 
water that is kept just below 90° Fahr. When the dough has 
risen to about double its original size, it should be " cut down *' 
— cut and worked with a knife, — to break up the bubbles of 
gas and retard the fermentation. The "cutting down " pro- 
cess may be repeated several times, to the improvement of 
the bread, if the rising be not continued too long at any one 
time. If the fermentation be allowed to proceed too long, the 
glutinous cell walls holding the gas become weakened,, the 
dough loses its puffy, rounded appearance and flattens, or 
*' caves in," showing that the alcoholic fermentation has 
passed into the acetic. The bread will be sour. Often dough 
that does not reach this condition is subjected to fermentation 
too long; and too much of the goodness of the flour — probably 
of the gluten — is consumed by the yeast-plants, and a dry, 
tasteless, chippy bread results. This is particularly the 
case with bread made of entire wheat flour. As a general 
rule, dough made with one cake of compressed yeast to a pint 
of liquid will double in bulk in three hours. About one hour 



400 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

is required for the second rising, after the dough is in the 
pans, and a fifth hour for baking. 

SHAPING THE DOUGH 

Knead the dough slightly, and divide it into the requisite 
number of pieces. When a round is desired, shape this with 
the hands and Angers, by folding over and patting, until no 
wrinkles are to be seen. If the dough was properly moulded 
in the first place, it will not stick to the fingers now. If it 
should stick, a little butter, not flour, is the remedy. If the 
dough is to be given a long, oval shape, the moulding board 
is needed'. When doubled in bulk, the loaves are ready to 
bake. 

THE BAKING 

Yeast bread is baked to kill the ferment, — lest fermentation 
go on in the stomach, — to drive off alcohol, stiff.en the glutin- 
ous walls, cook the starch, and form a? pleasant-tasting crust. 

The yeast-plant is killed at a temperature of 212° Fahr. 
To raise the temperature at the centre of the ordinary loaf 
to this point requires nearly an hour's cooking in an oven 
heated, when the bread is put in, to about 400° Fahr.; that is, 
in a fast oven. Where the temperature of the oven is gauged 
by a *'heat indicator," the index is just past the central 
mark, or twelve o'clock. The loaves in such an oven will 
rise a little, crust over, and brown slightly, in spots, during 
the first fifteen minutes. Biscuits and rolls require a hot 
oven, and will bake in from twenty minutes to half an hour. 
A thick loaf of bread baked in the early morning is considered 
in good condition for eating by night ; but it will be in better 
condition the next morning. Thin biscuits, if thoroughly 
baked, are not as objectionable hot, as slices from a thick 
loaf. Still, when thoroughly masticated, the digestibility of 
fresh (not hot) and stale bread is about the same. 

CARE OF BREAD AFTER BAKING 

Remove the bread at once from the tins and let cool in 
fresh air, uncovered. Store, when fully cold, in a tightly, 
covered stone jar. This should be washed, scalded, dried 



J 



MILK BREAD 401 

and aired at least once a week. Never put cut slices into the 
jar, but keep this receptacle free from crumbs. Never put a 
cloth into the jar with the bread. 

THE SPONGE 

A sponge, in bread-making, is a mixture of flour with liquid 
and yeast. It is usually made thin, and in consequence the 
ferment acts very quickly. A sponge is advisable for bis- 
cuits and all yeast preparations where much shortening is to 
be used, as it retards the rising. After fermentation has been 
established in the sponge, the shortening may be added with 
the rest of the flour; and the whole will quickly become light. 

POTATO YEAST 

2 quarts of boiling water. i -4 a cup of salt. 

4 or 5 large potatoes. 3-4 a cup of granulated sugar. 

I pint of yeast. 

Pare, grate, and cook the potatoes in the boiling water. 
Let stand in cold water, then stir as they are grated into the 
boiling water, to keep the yeast light-colored ; let cook about 
ten minutes after all the potato is grated, then stir in the salt 
and sugar, and when cooled to about 68° Fahr. stir in the yeast. 
Let stand in a temperature of 68° Fahr. twenty-four hours, 
stirring as it becomes light and frothy. Store in fruit jars, 
tightly closed. Fill the jars half full only. Use half a cup 
of yeast to a pint of liquid and mix at night or early morning. 

RECIPES FOR BREAD WITH YEAST 

MILK BREAD 

2 cups of scalded milk. ' */_j teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of shortening. 1-3 to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 

6 or more cups of flour. 

Pour the milk over the shortening, sugar, and milk in the 
bowl; when cooled to a luke-warm temperature add the yeast, 
softened and mixed with the luke-warm water, and stir in the 
flour; follow the directions given under ** kneading." Wash, 



402 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

dry and butter the bowl, put in the dough and set aside 
covered. Finish according to directions previously given. 

FRENCH BREAD (ADAPTED FROM RECIPE BY 

PROFESSOR BLOT) 

I cup of lukewarm water. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 to a whole yeast cake. About foiu- cups of flour. 

Soften the yeast in half of the water, then stir into it enough 
flour to make a very stiff dough (nearly two cups). Knead 
thoroughly, shaping into a ball. Make two cuts on the top 
about one-fourth of an inch deep, then place the paste in a 
small sauce-pan of tepid water, the cut side up. In a few 
minutes the ball will begin to swell and float on the top of the 
water. When quite light, remove with a skimmer to a bowl 
containing the rest of the water and the salt. Stir in enough 
flour to make a dough stiff enough to knead, — nearly two 
cups, — and let stand in a temperature of about 68° Fahr. 
until light. Then shape into a loaf, and, when again light, 
bake. 

MILK AND V\^ATER BREAD 

Same as milk bread, using one cup of scalded milk and one 
of boiled water, cooled to a lukewarm temperature. 

WATER BREAD 

Same as above, using all boiled water and two additional 
tablespoonfuls of shortening. Knead half an hour. 

ENTIRE V\^HEAT OR GRAHAM BREAD 

2 cups of scalded milk. 1-3 to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

2 tablespoonfuls of shortening. 1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. 2 cups of white flour. 

About 4 cups of entire wheat flour. 

Proceed as for the ordinary white loaf, mixing stiff and 
kneading quite as long. Molasses instead of sugar may be 
used for sweetening. 



BARLEY BREAD 403 



RYE BREAD 

* cups of scalded milk. 1-3 to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 
8 tablespoonfuls of sugar. About 6 cups of rye flour. 

2 tablespoonftils of shortening. Entire wheat flour for kneading. 

Make as wheat bread, using entire wheat fiour for kneading 

KUEMMEL BROD (CARAWAY-SEED BREAD) 

I cup of scalded milk. i yeast cake. 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-3 a cup of lukewarm water. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of caraway seeds. 

1-2 a tablespoonful of salt. About 4 cups of rye flour. 

Wheat flour for kneading 

Knead fully half an hour. When risen to double in bulk, 
shape into a long roll and bake in a French pan. Serve, either 
warm or cold, in the form of sandwiches, for five o'clock teas. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

3 cups of hot oatmeal mush. 1-3 to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

3 tablespoonfuls of shortening. 1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 4 cups of white flour. 

- 1-4 a cup of sugar or molasses. About 4 cups of entire wheat flour. 

Add the shortening, salt, and sweetening to the mush, 
cooked as for breakfast; when cooled to lukewarm add the 
yeast softened in the half-cup of lukewarm water, and the 
flour; mix very stiff with flour and knead until elastic. Finish 
as other bread. 

BARLEY BREAD 

2 1-2 cups of hot barley mush. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

(Barley crystals or granulated 1-3 a yeast cake to 3 cakes, 
barley.) 1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar Wheat flour to knead. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 

Add the sugar, salt, and butter to the hot mush. When 
lukewarm add the yeast cake, dissolved in the lukewarm 
water, and white flour to make a very stiff dough. Knead 
until elastic, then finish as other bread. All bread made 



404 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

with mush takes up a large quantity of flour before it loses 
i its stickiness. In order to mould easily, such dough needs be 

mixed much stiffer than ordinary bread dough. 

i 

'f FIVE HOUR BREAD 



^ 



r I pint of scalded milk or i teaspoonful of salt. 

boiled water. i cake of compressed yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, cottolene, 1-2 a cup of lukewarm liqiiid. 

lard, or other shortening. Flour to knead. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. (6 to 8 cups.) 

Add the shortening, sugar, and salt to the hot milk. When 
lukewarm add the yeast, softened in the half-cup of liquid, 
and flour to knead. The dough will be light in about three 
hours, then shape into loaves. They will become light in 
about one hour; bake the fifth hour. 

GLUTEN BREAD 

3 cups of milk or water. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
I cake of compressed yeast. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 
About 3 pints of gluten flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, if agree- 
I egg. able. 

Make a sponge, having the milk or water lukewarm, ^ith 
the liquid yeast and a pint of flour. When light add the salt, 
butter, sugar, if used, the beaten egg and gluten flour to 
knead. Knead until smooth and elastic. Shape into loaves. 
Bake about one hour. 

BROWN BREAD WITH YEAST (COLONIAL RECIPE) 

I quart of Indian meal. i cup of molasses (scant). 

I pint of boiling water. 1-2 a cup of home-made yeast. 

I pint of rye meal. Warm water to mix. 

Stir the boiling water into the meal so as to half scald it; 
add, when cold, the rye meal, molasses, yeast, and warm 
water to mix as stiff as can be mixed with a spoon. Turn 
into iron brown bread pans and let stand until light. Then 
bake in a hot oven half an hour, at the end of this time, put 
on the cover and bake slowly two or three hours — ^three hours 
will be none too long — in a moderate oven. 



J 



SALAD OR LUNCHEON ROLLS 405 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

2 cups of scalded milk. 2 tablespoon fuls of sugar. 

I yeast cake. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 1-4 a cup of butter. 

Flour. 

Make a sponge of the milk, scalded and cooled, the yeast 
cake, softened in the lukewarm water, and about two cups of 
flour; beat thoroughly, cover, and set aside until light: then 
add the sugar, salt, melted butter and flour to knead. Knead 
about twenty minutes; let rise until double in bulk, then shape 
into balls, cover closely, and when light press deeply the handle 
of a small wooden spoon across the centre of each biscuit 
without dividing it; brush the edge of one-half with butter, 
fold, and press together lightly; place in buttered tins some 
distance apart, cover and bake, when light, from twelve to 
eighteen minutes. 

CRESCENTS 

Prepare a Parker House roll-mixture, adding flour to make 
a very stiff dough; when light roll out in a sheet one-eighth 
an inch in thickness and cut into strips about seven inches 
wide; cut these into sharp-pointed triangles, then, commen- 
cing at the base, roll them up, bring the ends toward each 
other, keeping the point in the middle of the roll, to give the 
shape of a crescent. Place on baking tins some distance apart ; 
when light brush the tops with warm water and bake from 
fifteen to twenty minutes; then brush over with yolk of egg 
beaten with two tablespoonfuls of milk, and return to the oven 
to brown. 

SALAD OR LUNCHEON ROLLS 

Use the formula for Parker House rolls, increasing the 
quantity of butter to half a cup and adding the whites of two 
stiff-beaten eggs. Shape into balls and let rise until light 
and puffy, then make a deep crease in the middle of each 
biscuit with the floured handle of a small wooden spoon: 
brush the crease with melted butter and press the edges 
together. Place the biscuits close together in a buttered 



4o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pan, cover, let rise a little and bake twelve to fifteen minutes 
in a hot oven. 

BREAD STICKS 

I cup of scalded milk. 1-2 a tckspoonful of salt. 

I cake of compressed yeast. White of one egg. 

1-4 a cup of lukewarm water. 2 tablespoon fuls of butter. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. Flour. 

Make a sponge of the milk, yeast and flour ; when light add 
the other ingredients, the white of egg beaten until light, 
when ready to shape, form into small balls, then roll (without 
flour) on the board with the hands, until strips, uniform in 
size and in shape of a thick lead pencil, are formed. Set to 
rise in a pan designed for the purpose, leaving them full or 
half-length, as desired. Bake when light in a hot oven. 

BRAIDS 

Roll the sticks to the desired length, then braid them in 
three or four strands, having the braids wider in the centre 
than at the ends. 

TOMATO BISCUITS 

Roll a light dough, prepared by the recipe for salad rolis 
or French bread, into a sheet half an inch thick, cut into four- 
inch squares, brush over the corners with cold water, then fold 
them over to meet in the centre ; press the comers down closely 
upon the dough below. Arrange the biscuit in a baking-pan 
so that they will just touch one another, and brush over the 
tops with melted butter ; when risen to nearly double in bulk, 
brush with butter a second time and bake. 

SWEDISH ROLLS (SPICED CURRANT) 

I pint of scalded milk. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I cake of compressed yeast. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. Flour to knead. 

3 eggs. 3 tablespoonsful of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of butter. 2 tablespoonsful of cinnamon. 

I cup of currants. 



GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 407 

Make a sponge and prepare the dough as in all biscuit mix- 
tures made with yeast When ready to shape, roll into a 
sheet about one-fourth an inch thick, brush over with butter, 
dredge with the cinnamon and sugar and sprinkle with the 
currants; roll up like a jelly roll, cut into rounds and set on 
end, side by side, in a pan ; when light bake about half an hour : 
a little longer time is needed than for ordinary biscuit of the 
same size. When baked, brush over the tops with yolk of 
egg diluted with milk, or with sugar dissolved in milk, and 
return to the oven to brown. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE (MRS. DE BARRY) 

2 cups of scalded milk. i cup of sugar. 

I cake of compressed yeast. Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

1-4 a cup of lukewarm water. i teaspoonful of salt. 

4 eggs. Flour. 

I cup of melted butter. Blanched almonds. 

Soften the yeast in the water and add to the cooled milk 
with enough flour to make a batter. When light and spongy 
add the eggs, beaten without separating, the butter, lemon 
juice, salt, and flour to make a soft dough that may be kneaded. 
Knead until elastic, then set aside until light. When light 
roll out in a sheet an inch thick and fit into pans. When 
again light brush over the top with butter and sprinkle with 
blanched almonds, fine chopped. Bake about half an hour. 
Reheat by letting stand a few moments in a hot oven. Serve 
with coffee or chocolate. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

1 cup of scalded milk. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

2 cakes of compressed yeast. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 
1-4 a cup of water. i egg. 

Flour for a sponge. Grating of lemon rind. 

I -3 a cup of melted butter. Flour. 

Make a sponge with the milk, yeast softened in the water, 
and flour; when light add the other ingredients and flour to 
make a very stiff batter; beat thoroughly; when light again 
si>read in a buttered dripping-pan, cover, and let rise. When 



4o8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ready for the oven, brush over with beaten egg and dust 
thickly with sugar and cinnamon, mixed. Bake in a hot oven. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKES (MARSTON'S RESTAURANT, 

BOSTON) 

2 1-2 pounds of bread dough. 5 ounces of powdered sugar. 

(about 3 pints) . 1-2 a pound of butter ( i cup) . 

3 yolks of eggs. i teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

Chop the dough into bits; work in the sugar, butter, yolks 
of eggs and lemon extract; let rise until light (about two 
hours), breaking down the dough once or twice. Roll out 
into a sheet half an inch in thickness and cut into strips six- 
teen inches in length. Place each strip of paste in horizontal 
position and twist by rolling with the hands, drawing one 
towards and the other from you. This twists the dough and 
makes it longer. Now bring the ends together and twist the 
strips again in the same manner. Lastly form into a loop or 
the figure 8. Place the cakes on a baking-pan that they may 
come lightly in contact when light enough to bake. Do not 
allow them to become too light before baking, or they will not 
have the flaky character desired. When baked and nearly 
cool, spread the tops with icing made of confectioner's sugar 
and hot water, flavored with lemon juice or extract. 

ZWIEBACK (BERLINER PRAU) 

2 cups of scalded and cooled milk 3-4 a cup of butter, 
or water, or half of each. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I cake of compressed yeast. 3 eggs. 

1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. Flour as for bread. 

Flour for a sponge (nearly 3 cups). 

Shape into long narrow loavc: and bake about fifty minutes. 
When cold cut into slices about half an inch thick and brown 
in the oven or dry in a slow oven without browning. 

EASTER OR HOT CROSS BUNS 

Use the recipe for Zwieback and either white or entire 
wheat flour. When the dough is ready for shaping, form 



SWEDIKH ROLLS. 



L BISCUIT. (Sui; p 



BREAD STICK PAN. BREAD STICKS AND SALAD ROLLS. 



OLD FASHIONED BROWN BREAD 409 

into balls, place these on a baking-sheet, some distance apart, 
smooth side up ; cover and let rise. When ready for the oven 
score the buns, in form of a cross, and bake in a hot oven; 
brush over the tops with the yolk of an egg, diluted with one- 
fourth a cup of milk in which one-fourth a tablespoonful of 
sugar has been dissolved; dust the cross thickly with cinna- 
mon and return to the oven for a few moments. 

OATMEAL BISCUITS 

2 cups of hot milk. i yeast cake. 

I cup of uncooked oatmeal . i - 2 a cup of lukewarm water. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. About 2 cups, each, of white and 
I teaspoonful of salt. entire wheat flour. 

1-2 a cup of sugar or molasses. 

Stir the oatmeal into the scalded milk, let stand five min- 
utes, then add the butter, salt, and sweetening; when luke- 
warm add the yeast cake, softened in the lukewarm water, 
and the flour; beat very thoroughly and set to rise; when light 
beat a second time and drop from a spoon into very small 
timbale moulds. Half fill the moulds. Bake in a hot oven, 
when the dough fills the moulds. 

"SALLY LUNN" (MRS. PETERSON, VIRGINIA) 

I cup of scalded milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of boiled water. 4 eggs, well beaten. 

1-2 a cake of compressed yeast, i cup of butter mixed with lard or 

I -2 a cup of lukewarm water. cottolene. 

3 cups of flour. 1 quart of flour. 

At 'eleven o'clock a. m. make a sponge of the milk, water, 
yeast and three cups of flour. When light at about half 
past one, add the eggs, shortening, salt, and the flour; beat 
hard and turn into the pans, in which it is to be baked. Bake 
for tea. 

OLD-FASHIONED BROWN BREAD 

I quart of Indian meal. 1-2 a cup of yeast or 

Hot water. 2 yeast cakes softened in 

I pint of rye meal. 1-2 a cup of water. 

I cup of molasses. i teaspoonful of salt. 

Warm water. 



4IO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Stir about a pint of boiling water into the Indian meal. 
When lukewarm add the other ingredients and enough luke- 
warm water to mix stiff with a spoon. Turn into an iron 
brown-bread pan and let stand until light. Put into an 
oven at the. usual temperature for bread. After half an hour, 
put on the cover and bake very slowly two or three hours. 

PULLED BREAD 

Remove bread from the oven before it is quite baked, that 
is, reduce the ordinary time of baking ten or fifteen minutes. 
Grate off a thin layer of brown from the outside as when 
making ** rasped" rolls, then with the hands pull the loaf 
apart and into pieces half the size of the hand and less than an 
inch thick; return to the oven, or the warming-oven, in a 
dripping-pan and let cook or dry until colored slightly. Serve 
at once or set aside and reheat before serving. 

PULLED BREAD, NO. a 

Use a long loaf of French bread, or home-made bread, 
kneaded in such a manner that the grain of the bread will be 
lengthwise of the loaf. Bake the loaf thoroughly, and when 
cool enough to handle remove the crusts. Gash the loaf at 
ends and pull apart into halves, pulling from the outside to- 
wards the centre. Gash the halves and separate into quar- 
ters. Repeat the process until the pieces are the size of a 
large bread stick. Place on a rack in a pan and dry out the 
moisture in a slow oven ; then brown to a delicate color. Keep 
in a dry place and reheat before serving. The bread should 
snap when broken. 

RASPED ROLLS 

Use a Parker House or other unsweetened roll mixture; 
shape into balls about the size of an ordinary Parker House 
roll. Set some distance apart on a buttered tin, and when 
light bake until the whole surface is of an uniform brown 
color. Grate off a very thin layer from the outside of the 
crust in a rasping machine. When only a few are to be pre- 
pared, an ordinary lemon grater may be used, great care being 
taken to remove the outer layer of crust evenly. 



MILK TOAST 411 

TOAST 

When toast is properly made, the moisture in the bread 
is slowly dried out, and then the outside of the slice is changed 
by stronger heat to a golden brown. This requires constant 
attention; the bread needs be turned constantly, lest it brown, 
before the drying out is completed. This process changes the 
starch to dextrose, and thus continues, outside the stomach, 
the digestion of the starch begun in the first cooking of the 
bread. A bed of coals, a hinged toaster, and a slice of stale 
bread would seem to be the sine qua non for this operation f 
but a well toasted slice of bread is not the impossibility that 
the ordinary result would indicate, when gas and oil stoves 
are used for this purpose. When a gas range is used, the 
toaster needs be held slightly above the hot plate set over the 
flame or else under the flame, in the lower oven. 

Cut the bread for toast in even slices one-fourth an inch 
thick; these may be toasted as cut, but they look better when 
the slices are trimmed to be uniform in shape and size. Pre- 
pare and serve a few slices at once and when needed. Send 
to the table in a hot toast rack, or, if a plate be used, keep the 
slices separate and thus crisp. Toast used for meat in sauces, 
poached eggs, etc., is usually dipped quickly into boiling, 
salted water, then spread with softened or creamed butter. 
When used under game, it is moistened with the dripping 
from the baking-pan and spread with the liver of the game 
mashed fine and seasoned. For serving as dry toast, pleasing 
effects are secured by changes in the toaster. Toasters with 
lengthwise wires and those with lengthwise and crosswise 
wires give different results. 

MILK TOAST 

Cut four slices of bread half an inch thick and toast as 
above; dip the edges of each slice into boiling salted water, 
arrange on a serving-dish and pour over them one cup of 
white sauce made with milk. Or the slices, one at a time, 
may be put in the dish of sauce, and, when the sauce has been 
dipped over them, transferred to the serving-dish. 



412 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TOMATO TOAST 

Prepare four slices of milk toast. Remove the skin from 
two tomatoes and cut in halves: dip in melted butter, thenia 
fine cracker or breadcrumbs, sprinkle with salt and broil 
until the tomato is softened and the crumbs browned. Serve 
half a tomato on each slice of toast. 

TOMATO TOAST, NO. 2 

Prepare as milk toast, using half a cup, each, of tomato pulp 
and milk in the sauce. Grated cheese may be added if de- 
sired. 

CREAM TOAST 

Prepare four slices of toast; dust with salt and pour over 
one cup and a half of cream that has been kept heated to 
about 1 60° Fahr. fifteen minutes or longer. 

CREAM TOAST WITH CHEESE 

Sprinkle hot toasted bread with grated cheese, and set in 
the oven until the cheese melts; pour over hot cream, or white 
sauce made with milk, and serve at once. A beaten egg may 
be added to the cream or to the sauce. 

RECIPES FOR BREAD WITH OTHER LEAVENING AGENTS 

THAN YEAST 

JOHNNY-CAKE 

Stir one pint of scalded milk or water, or half of each, into 
one cup of yellow or white cornmeal, to which a teaspoonful of 
salt has been added. Bake in a shallow pan. 

JOHNNY-CAKE, NO. 2 

Into one pint of meal and one teaspoonful of salt stir boil- 
ing water to make a thick drop batter; thin to a thick pour 
batter with cold milk; drop by tablespoon fuls onto a hot 
buttered frying-pan and bake as griddle cakes. 

POPOVERS (ANNIE C. GROVER) 

Beat three eggs until very light without separating; add, 
alternately, sifted flour and milk — a little at a time — until a 
pint of each has been used; beat thoroughly with the egg- 



VIRGINIA SPOON CORN BREAD 413 

beater. Put one-fourth a teaspoonful of butter into each hot 
cup, and fill them to two-thirds their height with the batter. 
Bake between thirty and forty minutes in a rather hot oven; 
use for a change half entire-wheat flour. 

MARYLAND BEATEN BISCUIT (<<ROSIE") 

With the tips of the fingers work a teaspoonful of butter 

into each pint of flour, then mix with milk to a dough; beat 

twenty minutes, then cut into roimds and bake in a moderate 

oven. 

BEATEN BISCUIT, NO. 2 

Sift together two quarts of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, 
and two level teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; with the tips 
of the fingers work in one-fourth a cup of butter; then, using 
one and a half to two cups of ice water, mix to a dough ; beat 
twenty minutes, cut into rounds, prick with a fork, and bake 
about thirty minutes. 

OLD VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD (MRS. PETERSON, WEST 

VIRGINIA) 

Stir one pint of commeal into one quart of scalded ' milk ; 
stir and cook to a **mush. *' Let cool a little, add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half a cup of sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of 
three eggs, and, lastly, fold in the whites of three eggs, beaten 
stiff. Melt two tablespoonfuls of shortening in the baking- 
pan, pour in the mixture, and bake forty-five minutes. 

OLD VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD WITH VARIATIONS 

Stir one cup either of rice or grits, previously cooked, and 
one cup of commeal into one quart of scalded milk and pro- 
ceed as above. 

VIRGINIA SPOON CORN BREAD (MRS. PETERSON, WEST 

VIRGINIA) 

1-2 a cup of breakfast hominy. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 quajt of boiling water. 3 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. i cup of milk. 

a tablespoonfuls of cottolene or lard. 1 pint of commeal. 

I z-2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 



414 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Add the salt to the water, stir in the hominy and cook thirty 
minutes; then add the shortening, the eggs beaten and mixed 
with the milk, and lastly the commeal sifted with the baking- 
powder. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish three-fourths an 
hour. Send to the table in the dish in which it is baked. 
Serve with a spoon. The quantity indicated in the recipe 
will serve ten people. 

BREAKFAST CORN CAKE 

2-3 a cup of butter. 2 1-2 cups of yellow commeal. 

1 cup of sugar. i 1-2 cups of white flour. 

Yolks of three eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

2 cups of milk. i teaspoonful of soda. 

Whites of three eggs. 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually, then the 
egg yolks beaten and mixed with the milk, the meal, and flour 
sifted with the soda and cream-of-tartar, and, lastly, the 
whites of the eggs beaten dry. Bake in a dripping-pan about 
twenty-five minutes. 

STOCKBRIDGE CAKE (MASSACHUSETTS) 

4 level teaspoonfuls of yellow i teaspoonful of sugar. 

commeal. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I teaspoonful of butter. 3 eggs. 

I pint of scalded milk. 

Stir the meal into the hot milk, add the salt and let cook 
until the milk thickens a little. Add the butter, sugar, 
beaten yolks of eggs, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. Bake in a deep buttered dish twenty to thirty minutes. 
Serve from the dish in which it is baked. 

SPIDER CORN CAKE (MISS PARLOA) 

3-4 a cup of commeal. i egg. 

1 -4 a cup of white flour. i - 2 a cup of sweet milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1-2 a cup of thick sour milk. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 1-2 a cup of sweet milk. 

Sift together the dry ingredients, stir in the egg beaten 
and mixed with half a cup of sweet milk, and the sour milk, 
which should be very thick. Melt the butter in a small 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 415 

. ^rying-pan, turn in the mixture and pour the second half- 

f ;up of sweet milk over this without stirring. Bake about 

twenty-five minutes. Cut in triangles for serving. This 

corncake is sometimes called custard com cake,, as when the 

•- conditions are favorable, a line of creamy custard is formed 

within the cake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

I cup of yellow com meal. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of rye meal. 21-2 teaspoonfuls of soda. 

I cup of entire- wheat fipiir. 2-3 a cup of molasses. ^ ^ • 

I pint of thick sotir milk. (?>- / '■ ^ 

Pass the dry ingredients together through a sieve and add 
the molasses and sour milk: beat thoroughly and turn into a 
buttered mould. Steam three hours. Replenish the steamer 
with boiling water as needed. Large and small moidds for 
steaming this bread are purchasable. Baking-powder cans, 
pound size, may be used. Four cans are needed for this 
recipe. Two hours' cooking will suffice in this case, but longer 
steaming is no disadvantage. If raisins are used, seed them 
and add here and there as the batter is turned into the mould. 
To decorate a loaf that is to be sent whole to the table, cut 
the raisins almost in halves, remove the seeds and press 
against the buttered sides of the mould, then turn in the mix- 
ture. Though it does not give as good bread, water may 
supply the place of the sour milk; one cup and three-fourths 
will be sufficient. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD, NO. 2 

Sift rye and yellow commeal, then measure out a cup of 
each, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two teaspoonfuls of soda; 
mix with one cup of thick, sour milk, half a cup of warm (not 
hot) water, and half a cup of molasses. Turn into a buttered 
mould and steam three hours after boiling begins. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD (DR. MARY NICOLA) 

Sift together one cup, each, of sifted rye and yellow com- 
meal and half a teaspoonful of salt ; add half a cup of molasses, 
then well beaten yolks of two eggs and from one to one and 



4i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

a half cups of thin cream ; lastly fold in the whites of two eggs 
beaten until dry. Turn into a buttered mould and steam 
three hours; then bake one hour. 

GENERAL RULE FOR MUFFINS 

Sift together one cup, each, of meal and flour, or two of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, three and one-half level t«a- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder and from two tablespoonfuls to 
half a cup of sugar. Beat an egg u»til light without separ- 
ating, add one cup and a fourth of milk, and stir at once into 
the dry ingredients. Add also from one tablespoonful to 
one-fourth a cup of melted butter; beat thoroughly and bake 
about twenty-five minutes in a hot, well-butteted muffin or 
gem pan. 

ENTIRE-WHEAT MUFFINS 

I cup of white flour. 3 '-2 teaspoonlulsof baking-powder 

I cup of en tire- wheat flour. r egg. 

a' tablespoonfuls of sugar. i 1-4 cops of milk. 

1 - 2 a teaspoonful of salt. j tablespoonfuls of melted buitei . 

CORN MEAI^ MUFFINS 

1-4 a cup of butter. 2 cups of flour. 

3-4 a cup of sugar. i cup of com meal. 

2 eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder 
1 cup of milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, the eggs beaten without 
separating and, alternately, the milk and the rest of the dry 
ingredients sifted together. Bake in a hot buttered muffin 
pan about twenty-five minutes. 

CORN MEAL PUFFS 

I cup of milk. 2 eggs, 

I tablespoonful of butter. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-4 a cup of flour. 

1-2 a cup of commeal (scant). 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Scald the milk, add the butter and salt and stir in the com- 
meal (granulated, yellow meal preferred), stir and let thicken 
a few moments, then cool; add the eggs, beaten without 
separating, and the sugar, flour and baking-powder sifted 
together. Turn into a hot, buttered mufl&npan and bake 



1 



nN MOUNTAIN MUPFINS. {Sfe pafre 4 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD WITH RAISINS, (See ] 



MfPFINSANIJ WAFFLES, WITH UTEN; 



J 



BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS 417 

fifteen or twenty minutes in a hot oven. The recipe makes 
one doEen delicious cakes. 

TWIN MOUNTAIN MUFFINS 

1-3 a cup of butter. i egg. 

i-4 a cup of sugar. 3-4 a cup of milk. 

1-4 a tcaspoonful of salt. 2 cups of flour. 

4 tcaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then alternately 
the egg beaten and mixed with the milk and the flour sifted 
with the baking-powder. Bake in hot roll pan about twenty- 
five minutes. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

To the mixture for Twin Mountain muffins add at least one 
cup of blueberries. 

DATE MUFFINS 

To the butter and sugar creamed together for Twin Moun- 
tain muffins, add one-fourth a pound of dates, chopped fine. 

WHEAT PUFFETS 

1-3 a cup of butter. i cup of milk. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 3 cups of flour. 

1 egg and yolk of another. 4 teaspoonf uJs of baking-powder. 

Mix in the same manner as Twin Mountain muffins. 

CREAM SCONES 

2 cups of flour. 1 -4 a cup of butter. 

3 tcaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

. Mix as baking-powder biscuit, adding the beaten eggs with 
the cream. Serve with chocolate for luncheon. A diamond 
shape is attractive for scones. 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS 

2 cups of flour 2 tablcspoonfuls to 1-4 a cup 

I t^easpoonful of salt. of shortening, 

4 tesispoonfuls of baking-powder. About i cup of milk or milk 

and water. 

Sift together the dry ingredients; with a knife or the 



"^ * .1 • / /^ f 



' t 



41 8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

tips of the fingers work in the shortening, then add the 
milk and mix with knife to a dough. Toss onto a board 
lightly dredged with flour; knead gently, then pat with the 
rolHng-pin into a sheet, cut into rounds and bake about fifteen 
minutes. 

SWEDISH ROLLS 

2 cups of flour. I egg. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3-4 a cup of rich milk (about). 

31-2 teaspoonfuls of baking- i tablespoonful of sugar. 

powder. i - 2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-2 a cup of currants or sultanas. 

Mix as cream scones, then roll into a rectangular sheet one- 
fourth an inch thick, longer one way than the other. Spread 
the sheet with softened butter, then sprinkle with the sugar, 
cinnamon, and currants or raisins. Roll up as a jelly roll, 
having the roll long rather than thick. Cut the roll into 
pieces nearly an inch in thickness. Bake on a buttered tin 
about eighteen minutes. Brush over with a little sugar dis- 
solved in milk and return to the oven to brown. 

BLUEBERRY TEA CAKE (EMMA HILL, NEW HAJMPSHIRE) 

1-2 a cup of softened butter. 2 cups of flour. 

1 cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

1-2 a cup of thin cream. 3 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

2 eggs beaten without separating, i cup of blueberries. 

Mix as any butter cake, when baked cut in squares and 
serve hot with butter for luncheon or tea. 

BREADCRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups of jreadcrumbs. i egg. 

I pint of thick sour milk. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Soak the crufnbs in cold water, wring out the water and 
stir with the flour into the milk. Let stand over night, then 
add the egg beaten very light, the salt, the soda, dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of cold water, and more flour or liquid as re- 
quired. 



J 



FLANNEL CAKES 419 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups of hot boiled rice. 1-2 a teaspoon ful of salt. 

2 cups of flour. I cup of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

Stir the salt and milk into the hot rice; let cool, then add 
the yolk of the eggs, well beaten, and the flour sifted with the 
baking-powder, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten until 
dry. For rice waffles omit half a cup of the milk and add one- 
fourth a cup of melted butter. 

CORNMEAL-AND-RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

1-2 cup of com meal. 2 . teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1-2 a cup of flour. i teaspoonftil of salt. 

I cup of cold boiled rice. 2 eggs. 

I pint of rich milk. 

Sift together the dry ingredients and stir in the beaten 
yolks of the eggs mixed with the milk; add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten stiff, at the last. 

CORNMEAL-AND-RICE WAFFLES 

Add to the recipe given above for griddle cakes one-fourth 
a cup of melted butter. 

BUCKV\^HEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

I cup of buckwheat flour. i tablespoonf ul of sugar. 

1-3 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I 1-2 cups of cold water (nearly). 

Sift the dry ingredients, add the water, all at once, and mix 
thoroughly; bake at once on a hot griddle. 

FLANNEL CAKES 

2 1-2 cups of flour. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I - 2 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 cups of sweet milk. 

2 eggs. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder; add the 
yolks of the eggs beaten and mixed with the sweet milk, and, 
lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten dry. 



4ao PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

KORNLET GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups of flour. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

2 cups of milk. 2 cups of komlet. 

2 eggs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Stir the milk with the beaten yolks of the eggs into the 
komlet ; add the flour sifted with the salt and baking-powder, 
and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 

WAFFLES WITH SOUlfl MILK 

I 1-4 cups of flour. I cup of thick sour raijk. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 eggs. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. ' - 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Si-ft together the flour, salt, and soda ; add the yolks of the 
eggs beaten and mixed with the sour milk, the melted butter, 
and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten dry. Have both 
sides of the waffle-iron hot and well oiled ; put a tablespoonful 
of the mixture in each compartment and let down the top: 
when the mixture is baked upon one side, turn the iron to 
brown the other side. Remove the waffles when cooked with 
a fork. 

RICH WAFFLE>S 

1 I - 2 cups of flour. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder 2 eggs. 

I cup of sweet thick cream. 

Add the beaten yolks with the cream to the dry ingredients; 
then the whites, beaten dry, and bake at once. 



CHAPTER XVI 

Cake and Cake-Making 

'* Cake is acceptable at every kind of luncheon; in fact, cakes were 
invented for that meal, for five o'clock tea, weddings and for school- 
boys only." — Wyvern. 

Another form of batter or dodgh is that to which after 
cooking the term cake is applied. Cakes are made light by 
the same means as other mixtures of this class and may be 
considered in the same order as the various forms of bread 
have been considered. 

Thudicum speaks of cakes as " forms of sweetened, flavored, 
and ornamented bread that signalize an evolution of cookery 
and, like confectionery, or including it, are a measure of cul- 
ture. " 

There is much of sentiment connected with different varie- 
ties of cake, which, apart from any intrinsic merit contained 
therein, commend them to their sponsors. Probably the 
cakes of greatest antiquity that are still in use are those that 
are lightened with yeast, as French brioche, Polish baba, 
kugel hopfe ot the Germans, ratan cake, claimed by both the 
French and Germans, English Bath buns, and Scotch short- 
bread. The forms in which these cakes appear are numerous, 
varying with the object for which they are intended. They 
are modified, also, by the addition of fruit, nuts, etc. Some- 
times, too, they are served with a rich syrup, flavored with 
wine, in which case they partake more of the character of a 
pudding. In respect to manipulation, these cakes may be 
classed under two heads, of which brioche and ratan cake 
may be taken as representative. Brioche is partly flaky, 
and rises in layers ; while the ratan cake rises like sponge cake, 
in minute and uniform bubbles. 

431 



422 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

While these cakes are common abroad, especially in the 
countries to which they owe their origin, outside of our large 
cities they are not well known to housekeepers in the United 
States. In the cities there seems to be an increasing demand 
for this sort of toothsome dainty, yet, because of the time 
required in the preparation of all yeast mixtures, many house- 
keepers do not attempt the production, but depend for supply 
upon some restaurant of noted excellence. Coffee cakes and 
zweiback (the last properly called biscuit, because literally 
twice baked) are the forms of these confections most common. 
Near akin to the ratan cake is the election, or loaf cake, so 
common in the early days of our republic. 

What is sold abroad as biscuit, and here as sponge cake, 
and cakes made with butter, and known as cup and potmd 
cakes, are the cakes most in evidence in this country. Of 
these, sponge cake and pound cake, when tradition is followed, 
are lightened simply by the expansion of air incorporated 
into eggs by beating. Cup cakes are lightened partly b)' this 
method, but principally by the addition of carbon dioxide 
set free from a carbonate by an acid (see page 387). 

No article on cakes would be complete without special 
mention of meringues and petits choux, or cakelets, made of 
choux paste. Of the first Thudicum says: ** Meringues are 
classical confections, having a good prospect of immortality, 
as they cannot easily be improved, spoiled, or altered. They 
have probably a history of more than a thousand years." 
Swedish meringues, in which starch supplies the place of a 
part of the egg whites, are a confection that may be classed 
with sponge cake. Petits choux may be regarded as the con- 
necting link between cake and pastry ; they afford grounds for 
considering, as do the French, the matter of cakes as a part 
of the general subject of pastry. These cakes are made of a 
batter previously boiled, and eggs; the hollow centres, when 
baked, are filled with sweetened and flavored cream or a cus- 
tard mixture. 

PRELIMINARIES 

Before beginning to mix cake have everything needed at 
hand, and in such condition that the ingredients can be put 
together quickly; i.e. — 



J 



THE FIRE 423 

1. Measure or weigh out the exact quantities of the diflFerent 
ingredients to be used. Weight is preferable to measure, 
especially in the case of butter. 

2. Sift the flour before measuring, and sift again with the 
baking-powder, or soda and cream-of-tartar. 

3. Pulverize and sift soda before measuring, and add 
always to the flour; baking-powder is better sifted, but it 
may be made light by working with a spoon. 

4. To cream butter successfully, it should be at about the 
temperature of the living room (70° Fahr.). If too cold, it 
may stand a short time in the mixing bowl after that has been 
heated slightly with warm water and wiped dry. 

5. Have the pans (if the ordinary pan be used) buttered 
and floured, or lined with paper, and the paper buttered. 

6. Break the eggs, one by one, over a cup, separating the 
whites from yolks when desired. Beat the yolks, but let the 
whites stand unbeaten in a cool place until the cake is nearly 
mixed. 

7. When fruit is used, cut citron in slices, and then in nar- 
row strips; seed raisins, and cut them in pieces; remove stems 
from sultanas; wash currants on a coarse sieve, then dry. 
Fruit to be mixed through a cake may be added to the butter 
and sugar creamed together, without dredging with flour; 
in layers, dredge lightly with flour, then, when the cake is 
mixed, sprinkle in between layers of cake mixture. 

THE FIRE 

Electricity, gas, or oil, the heat from all of which may be 
regulated to a nicety, are ideal fuels for cake baking; and in 
no branch of cooking is such nice adjustment of heat demanded 
as in the baking of pastry and cake. Even at the present 
prices, where one is to bake several cakes in the morning 
(as do consignors to industrial unions, etc.) electricity or gas 
will be found more economical than coal. If the fuel be wood 
or coal, the fire should be in such condition that it may be 
regulated easily, and last through the baking without being 
replenished; i.e., do not attempt to bake a delicate cake mix- 
ture with a freshly-built coal fire, or with a fire from which 
the life has largely died out. 



424 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



TEMPERATURE OF THE OVEN 

Layer cakes and small cakes require a hotter oven than loaf 
cake. So cakes made with baking-powder call for a higher 
temperature (the carbon dioxide is evolved more quickly) 
than do cakes made of cream-of- tartar and soda, lemon juice 
and soda, or molasses and soda. 

Biscuit, or sponge cake, and pound cake, will bake at a 
lower temperature than cake lightened with carbon dioxide. 

Also, cakes made rich with yolks of eggs require less heat 
than cakes made with whites of eggs; i.e., an oven should be 
hotter for an angel cake than for a yellow form of sponge 
cake (yolks of eggs are rich in fat, hence they burn quickly). 

Cake containing fruit should be baked in a slow oven. 

UTENSILS 

Earthen bowls for mixing the ingredients and beating eggs, 
a slitted wooden spoon, an ordinary-sized sieve for flour, a 
small sieve for soda, etc., a Dover egg-beater, an egg- whisk, 
pastry-bag, and tubes for lady-fingers, eclairs, and frosting, 
a small saucepan for boiling sugar, scales, measuring-cups, and 
a variety of baking-tins, are the most important utensils 
needed for work in this branch of the culinary art. 

MATERIALS 

Cake has come to be classed with confectionery, and to be 
eaten only occasionally as a luxury. Thus, in its preparation, 
the choicest materials are demanded, — ^the best flour and 
butter, fine granulated sugar, fresh eggs, and choice fruits, 
nuts and flavorings. The miller, by skilful devices, has evolved 
a flour especially adapted to produce a light, tender, delicate 
cake; when this is not available, the choicest pastry flour 
should be selected. Bread flour is sometimes used, but, as it 
contains a large quantity, comparatively, of gluten, it gives, 
when used with other leavening agents than yeast, a thick, 
compact cake. The recipes are written for pastry flour, save 
in yeast mixtures, and it may be necessary to increase or 
diminish, slightly, the quantity, as the thickening property 



UTENSILS FOR CAKE-MAKING. (Sfir 



r 



-J.^ 



CAKE TINS— SIMMOE, LEMON Ol'liEN, LAYER, ETC. 



FILLING THE PANS 425 

of flour varies ; when bread flour is used with baking-powder, 
the quantity given should be diminished by two level table- 
spoonfuls for each cup. 

Spices should be sifted with the flour. 

Fine granulated sugar gives the best results, powdered sugar 
making a close dry cake, and coarse granulated sugar a very 
coarse-grained cake. 

If cream-of -tartar and soda can be accurately measured, 
these will, in general, give more perfect results than baking- 
powder. The novice, however, will succeed better with the 
baking-powder. A pound cake is usually improved by the 
addition of a small quantity of baking-powder. Lemon 
juice and soda produce a cake of fine, close texture, but these 
are not adapted to lightening plain cakes. 

LINING THE PANS 

A light-weight wrapping-paper is best adapted to this pur- 
pose. To line a rectangular pan, invert, spread paper upon 
the bottom, having one side even with one of the longer edges 
of the bottom, crease the paper upon the opposite edge, fold 
in the crease, and, with a sharp knife, cut at the fold. Put in 
the pan, press down smoothly, letting the ends hang over 
the ends of the pan. Have ready a dish of clarified butter 
(melt the butter, and let stand a few moments to "settle," 
then skim off the top, leaving the salt and sediment in the 
bottom), and with butter-brush spread the unpapered sides 
of the tin and the paper with butter. Patented tins, from 
which cake can be easily removed, do not need lining. Tins 
may also be buttered thoroughly, and, just before the cake 
is placed in them, sprinkled with flour. After sprinkling 
-with flour, invert and give the tin a sharp rap to remove 
superflous flour. 

FILLING THE PANS 

That the cake, when baked, may fill the pan, let the un- 
cooked mixture fill two-thirds of the space. Always draw the 
mixture away from the centre towards the corners or edges, 
axidi, when baked, other conditions being favorable, the top will 
l:>e level. 



426 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CAKE WITH YEAST 

In mixing cakes lightened with yeast observe the same 
points considered essential to success in bread-making. On 
account of the tendency of sugar, butter, and eggs to retard 
fermentation, it is advisable to add these either to a light 
sponge or to a light bread dough. Explicit directions will 
be given under the several recipes. 

MIXING SPONGE CAKE 

As the lightness of sponge cake depends entirely upon the 
air incorporated into the eggs, of which it is largely composed, 
and the expansion of this air in baking, great care must be 
taken first, to secure the incorporation of air in the mixture, 
and then to regulate the baking so as to retain the same; 
i.e., never stir a sponge cake mixture; let the heat be such that 
the enclosed air can be gradually heated, and the cell walls 
fixed when the air becomes fully expanded. Beat the yolks 
with an egg-beater until very light and thick; add the sugar 
gradually, beating continuously, then add the flavoring. Beat 
the whites until stiff and dry; cut and fold part of the whites 
into the yolks and sugar, then cut and fold in part of the flour; 
now, in the same order, the remaining whites and flour. If 
preferred, add the whites, then the flour entire. Bake in an 
unbuttered pan, made for the purpose, and let the cake stand 
in the inverted pan to cool. Thus suspended, as it were, 
from the floor of the pan, the cake will be much lighter, than 
when it is left to hold up its own weight while cooling. 

MIXING BUTTER CAKES 

Cream the butter, using an earthen bowl and a wooden spoon 
to avoid discoloring the ingredients ; add the sugar gradually, 
beating constantly; add yolks of eggs beaten until thick and 
light colored. If more sugar is to be used than can be creamed 
easily with the butter, add it to the yolks and with them 
to the rest of the sugar and butter; then add the liquid, fol- 
lowed by the flour and leavening ingredients sifted together, 
or add the liquid and flour alternately. Beat the mixture 



I 

J 



BRIOCHE 427 

thoroughly to secure a fine grain, then beat in, lightly, the 
whites of the eggs beaten dry. 

BAKING 

Cakes are baked in from fifteen minutes to three or four 
hours. The heat of the oven should be moderate at first, 
that the mixture, being evenly heated, may rise throughout. 
If the oven be too hot at first, the cake will crust or brown 
over before it becomes sufficiently light ; then the mixture in 
rising will break through the weakest place (usually the 
centre) and run over the surface. Mrs. Lincoln gives the 
following excellent directions for baking cake: "Divide the 
time required into quarters. During the first quarter, the 
heating is not manifested in appearance except by the rising; 
during the second the cake should continue to rise, and begin 
to brown ; then it should become all over a rich golden brown, 
and, in the last, quarter, settle a little, brown in the cracks, 
and shrink from the pan. " 

Sometimes, especially in the oven of a coal or wood range; 
it seems necessary to move a cake. In the ** first quarter," 
or early in the second, it may be moved very gently; after 
this screen with tin baking-sheets or paper; for, when a cake 
has reached its full height, and the cells have not become 
fixed by the heat, the slight jar of moving breaks down the 
cells, and no carbon dioxide remains by which other cells may 
be evolved, and the cake is *' heavy. " If desired, the oven 
door may be opened a reasonable number of times, providing 
it be done without jarring the cake. • 

Cakes, with the exception, perhaps, of pound cake, are 
fully baked when they shrink from the pan, and settle to a 
level. All cakes are well done, when they make only a slight 
singing noise, or when the surface rebounds at once on being 
pressed with the finger. 

BRIOCHE 

I potind of flour (4 cups) . i o ounces of butter ( i 1-4 cups) . 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 7 eggs. 

X tablespoonful of sugar. i cake of compressed yeast. 

1-4 a cup of warm water. 



498 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Soften the yeast cake iti the water and stir in flour to make 
a stiff dough ; knead thoroughly, then drop into a small sauce- 
pan of warm water and let stand in a temperature of 70** Fahr. 
until doubled in bulk. Put the rest of the pound of flour into 
a mixing bowl, add the salt, sugar, the butter, softened, but not 
melted, and four of the eggs. Mix to a paste, then beat 
thoroughly with the hand, adding eggs, one at a time, until 
seven in all have been used; beat until smooth. When the 
ball of sponge is light (in fifteen to thirty minutes), remove 
from the water with a skimmer, and place in the centre of the 
egg mixture, fold the egg mixture over the sponge and con- 
tinuing the folding until the two are thoroughly blended; set 
aside in a temperature not higher than 70° Pahr. until doubled 
in bulk; turn onto a board dredged with flour, pat out and 
fold over several times; let rise a second time, then repeat 
the process and set aside on the ice to become thoroughly 
chilled. As the dough is rich and not very firm unless chilled, 
it needs stand some hours, even over night, if it is to be shaped 
readily. 

COFFEE ROLLS FROM BRIOCHE 

Roll chilled brioche into a sheet about one-fourth an inch 
thick (a marble slab or a magic cover is an aid), brush over 
very lightly with softened butter, then fold from the sides 
towards the centre, so as to make three layers. Cut strips 
three-fourths an inch wide; take each separately, and twist 
from the ends in opposite directions, and with each form a 
circle on the baking-sheet, but, instead of having the ends 
meet, bring them side by side up to the centre of the cun^e. 
Arrange the rolls close togetlier in the baking-pan, and brush 
over with yolk of egg, beaten and diluted with milk; let rise» 
and bake about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven; 
let cool, then brush over with confectioner's sugar,' "moistened 
with boiling water to spread. 

BRIOCHE BUNS 

Shape the chilled brioche into balls the size of an egg', piit 
them close together in a buttered pan, and press into the 
top of each a slice of citron or a seeded raisin. When risen 



i 



BRIOCHES ST. MARK 499 

a little more than double in bulk, brush over with sugar dis- 
solved in a little milk and bake about twenty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. Brush over a second time with sugar 
and milk and sprinkle with loaf sugar pounded into small 
bits; let stand in the oven until well glazed. 

BRIOCHE WITH HEAD 

Divide the chilled brioche into two pieces, one a fourth as 

large as the other. Shape the larger piece into aground, and, 

with the rolling-pin, flatten evenly to fit the baking-pan (a 

round sponge-cake pan). Make an open place in the centre, 

and gash the dough in four or five places on the inner edge, 

after placing it in the buttered pan ; form the small piece into 

a ball, then, with the floured hand, roll on the board, giving 

it the shape of a pear; set the pointed end in the centre of the 

• pan, and brush over the whole with yolk of egg beaten with 

a little milk; when light bake about fifty minutes in a slow 

oven; then brush over with sugar dissolved in a little milk. 

Serve hot or cold, with coffee for breakfast. Break in portions 

with the fingers or a silver fork. Or serve hot with a rich 

syrup flavored with rum or wine, or with a fruit compote, for 

the sweet dish at luncheon or dinner. 

BRIOCHES ST. MARK 

Fill twelve well-buttered individual timbale moulds two- 
thirds full with brioche paste. When risen nearly to fill the 
moulds, bake in a slow oven. Remove from the moulds, 
and, when cold, trim uniformly to size of the moulds, and 
remove the centre of each, leaving a thin shell. Pour over 
the inside ajiighly flavored syrup; drain, and fill with whipped 
cream or a custard filling; brush over the outside with apricot 
marmalade, and strew with pistachios and almonds, blanched 
and chopped fine. Ornament the top of each timbale with a 
rosette formed of a split cherry surrounded by halves of pis- 
tachios. Dress these on a plate in a circle, filling the centre 
of the circle with halved peaches cooked in syrup. Serve with 
or Tvithout whipped cream or a custard sauce. 



430 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BABA WITH FRUIT 

I pound of flour (4 cups) . i cake of compressed yeast. 

10 ounces of butter (i 1-4 cups) . 1-2 a cup of scalded milk. 

I tablespoonful of granulated sugar. 8 eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. i cup of fruit. 

Make a sponge of the yeast, milk and a little of the flour 
and set aside to become light. Put the rest of the flour into 
a mixing-bowl, add the butter, softened, but not melted, sugar, 
salt, and three eggs, and work the whole together until smooth, 
then add the rest of the eggs, one at a time, and continue beat- 
ing until all are added and the mixture is very smooth. When 
the sponge is light, add to the egg mixture, beating (not fold- 
ing as in brioche) until again smooth; then add the fruit, 
sultanas or seeded raisins cut in small pieces, citron, candied 
cherries or other fruit, cut in bits, or cleaned currants. Butter 
a baba mould and half fill with the mixture. Let rise nearly 
to the top of the mould, then bake from forty to fifty minutes. 
Serve hot on a folded napkin. Serve at the same time an 
apricot or similar sauce. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Boil one cup of sugar, half a cup of water, half a cup of 
apricot jam, and the juice of two lemons five minutes, strain, 
and serve. 

SAVARIN (MODIFIED BABA) 

I pound of flour. 5 eggs. 

I cake of compressed yeast. 3-4 a cup of scalded milk. 

1-4 a cup of scalded milk. 3-4 a pound of butter. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 2 ounces of candied orange peel, 

I tablespoonful of sugar. cut fine. 

Make a sponge of the milk, the yeast, and a little flour, and 
when light add the rest of the milk, two eggs, salt, butter, 
and the rest of the flour; beat with a perforated spoon until 
light, then add the rest of the eggs, one at a time, and beat 
until very smooth ; add the orange peel meanwhile. Butter a 
fluted cylinder mould, sprinkle with chopped almonds, and 
half fill with the paste. When the paste has risen to the top 



J 



HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE 431 

of the mould, bake in a moderate oven. When baked turn 
from the mould, let cool twenty minutes, then pour over a 
rich syrup, flavored to taste, and serve aS a luncheon or dinner 
sweet. 

BATH BUNS 

I pound of flour (4 cups) . 3-4 a cup of softened butter. 

1 cake of compressed yeast. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 
1-2 a cup of lukewarm milk or water. Grating of lemon rind, 
1-2 a cup of sugar, 4 eggs. 

Soften the yeast in the liquid and add flour to make a sponge ; 
when light add the other ingredients, mix thoroughly, and 
knead half an hour, adding more flour if needed, but keeping 
the mixture quite soft. When risen to double in bulk, shape 
into balls and finish as brioche buns. 

THANKSGIVING CAKE (COLONIAL) 

2 cups of bread dough. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
1-2 a cup of butter. 1-2 a teaspoonful of mace, 

2 cups of sugar, 1-2 a teaspoonful of nutmeg, 

2 eggs. I cup of seeded raisins, 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cloves. 1-4 a cup of silced citron. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

Take the dough, when it is ready for shaping into loaves, 
add the other ingredients and mix and beat with the hand or 
hands as in making brioche. The beating is not done with 
the side of the hand, but with the tips of the fingers and 
directly towards the body. Turn into a tube cake pan, and 
when light (it should not quite double in bulk), bake in an 
oven at a temperature a little lower than for bread. When 
cold pour a maple sugar frosting over the cake, and decorate 
with pecan or hickory nuts and ornamental frosting. This 
cake is particularly good made of entire-wheat bread dough. 

HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE (RECIPE 100 YEARS OLD) 

5 pounds of dried and sifted flour. Four eggs. 

2 pounds of butter. A gill of wine and a gill of brandy. 

2 pounds of sugar. Half an ounce of nutmegs, and 

3 gills of distillery yeast, or twice two pounds of fruit. 

the quantity of home-made A quart of milk, 
yeast, 



432 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Rub the butter very fine into the flour; add half the sugar, 
then yeast, then half the milk, scalded and cooled to luke- 
warm, then the eggs 'sVell beaten, the wine and the remainder 
of the milk. Beat well in the morning, adding the brandy, 
the sugar and the spice. Let rise three or four hours, till ven'^ 
light. When the wood is put into the oven, put the cake in 
buttered pans, also the fruit as directed previously. If a 
richer cake is wanted, add a pound of citron. 

ELECTION CAKE (POMFRET COOKERY) 

2 1-2 pounds of butter. i 1-2 nutmegs, grated. 

21-2 pounds of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

4 pounds of flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

7 eggs. I cup of yeast (2 cakes of com- 

I quart of milk. pressed yeast and one cup of 

water) . 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Divide into two 
equal parts and rub one part thoroughly into the flour. Now 
mix with the milk, adding the yeast, and set to rise in a warm 
place. When very light add the rest of the butter and sugar, 
the eggs and the spice, and let rise again. When well raised, 
mix the soda with half a cup of dry flour, and sift into the 
dough. Beat the cake until it is smooth and creamy. Stir in 
stoned raisins, as many as are desired, and place in the baking- 
pans. When again light bake an hour or longer. A quick 
and hard baking destroys the delicacy of the cake. Let stand 
in the tins half an hour after these are taken from the oven, 
then ice the tops and sides of the loaves. This recipe makes 
seven large loaves. 

GERMAN APPLE CAKE g /. ' - v" ' 

Roll a small piece of dough made as for zweiback (see page 
408) half an inch thick, and fit into a shallow rectangular 
pan. Lay on this apples or peaches peeled, cored and cut 
in eighths, and bestrew with sugar mixed with cinnamon. Let 
rise and bake in a quick oven. Serve at breakfast or luncheon 
with sugar and cream or butter. Rub over the fruit with the 
cut side of a lemon, to avoid discoloring, or wait until the 
dough is light before putting the fruit in place. 



GENERAL FORMULA FOR SPONGE CAKE 433 

BERLIN PANCAKES 

Shape zweiback dough into balls, flatten the balls, and put 
a spoonful of jam into the centre of each; bring up the edges 
and pinch together, forming a ball again. Lay on a floured 
board smooth side up and let rise until nearly doubled in size, 
then fry in hot fat, drain and dust with sugar and cinnamon 
mixed. Serve with coffee at breakfast, or cocoa at luncheon. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS (MRS. McELAVEY) 

3 cups of bread dough. 2 eggs. 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of cinnamon or 

I cup of sugar. nutmeg. 

To the dough ready for shaping in loaves add the other 
ingredients and mix thoroughly with the hand. Let rise until 
doubled in bulk, then roll into a thin sheet and cut into rings. 
Let stand until doubled in bulk, then fry in deep fat (see page 
12). Drain on soft paper, and roll in sifted powdered sugar. 

RECIPES FOR SPONGE OR SAVOY CAKE (BISCUIT DE 

SAVOIE) 

GENERAL FORMULA FOR SPONGE CAKE 

The weight of the eggs in sugar and half the weight in flour 

is the usual formula for the ordinary sponge loaf. In small 

cakes the number of eggs may be increased to twelve, sixteen 

or even twenty, to a pound of sugar and half a pound of flour. 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon complete the list of 

ingredients used to a pound of sugar. The Portuguese apply 

the name pan four (golden bread), to the sponge cake, in the 

making of which they are said to excel. In serving sponge 

cake, cut through the outer crust only, then break apart with 

the fingers or a fork. When well baked sponge cake is never 

dark in color. 

SPONGE CAKE (RECIPE USED IN ONE FAMILY FOR 

THREE GENERATIONS) 

Take the weight of eight eggs in sugar, one-half the weight 
3f the eggs in flour, sifting the flour several times before 
wreighing. Set the sugar and flour near the fire to keep warm. 



434 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Beat the yolks of the eggs twenty-five minutes, then beat the 
whites until they are perfectly stiff; add the sugar to the yolks, 
beating, not stirring in, then add the whites, and, lastly, sift in 
the flour. Add the juice of two lemons and bake in a good 
oven twenty-five minutes. To adapt to the present time, 
use an egg-beater and thus shorten the time of beating, and 
add the lemon juice to the yolks and sugar. 

SPONGE CAKE (MEASURE BY CUPS) 

5 eggs ( I cup of eggs when Grated rind and juice of half 

broken) . lemon. 

I cup of sugar. i cup of flour. 

See Mixing Sponge Cake, page 426. 

IDEAL SPONGE CAKE (ELEANOR S MCKENZIE) 

4 eggs. Grated rind of half a lemon or 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. orange. 

I cup of fine granulated sugar. i tablespoonful of orange or lemon 

3-4 a cup of flour. juice. 

* 

Beat the whites of the eggs with salt until dry, then beat in 
gradually one-half the sugar. Beat the yolks the same length 
of time as the whites (by the clock), then gradually beat in 
the other half-cup of sugar; add the grated rind and juice, 
then beat the two together. Now sprinkle the flour in, little 
by little, folding it under with a perforated spoon. Do not 
beat after any of the flour is added. Bake from twenty to 
forty minutes, according to the shape of the pan. 

"BOILED" SPONGE CAKE 

I cup of sugar. The grated rind and juice of half a 

1-2 a cup of water. lemon. 

The yolks of five eggs. i cup of flour. 

The whites of five eggs. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread stage, and pour in a 
fine stream on to the yolks of the eggs, beaten until thick and 
lemon-colored, beating constantly some time, then set dish ' 
into cold water and continue beating until the mixture is 
cold, adding while beating the lemon juice and rind. When 
cold fold in half the whites of eggs, beaten dry, and the flour, 






CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 435 

then the rest of the egg whites. Bake in a tube pan about 
fifty minutes, and let cool in the inverted pan. This is, in 
reality, the same cake as the "sponge cake (measure by 
cups), " the water with which the sugar is boiled being lost in 
the boiling process. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

The whites of seven eggs. i cup of sugar (fine granulated) . 

The yolks of five eggs. i teaspoonful of orange extract. 

1-3 a teaspoonful of cream-of- tartar. 2-3 a cup of flour. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light colored and thick; 
beat the whites until foamy, add the cream-of-tartar and beat 
until dry; beat the sugar into the whites, <rfien beat in the 
yolks; add the extract and fold in the flour. Bake in an un- 
buttered tube pan from thirty-five to fifty minutes. 

ANGEL CAKE 

I cup of whites of eggs. i cup of flour. 

(about 10 eggs). 1-2 a teaspoonful of cream-of- 

I cup of sugar. tartar. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until foamy; add the cream-of- 
tartar and beat until dry; beat in the sugar gradually using a 
cake spoon, add the extract, then fold in the flour; bake in a 
tube pan unbuttered with a stronger heat than for yellow 
sponge cake. Thirty to fifty minutes will be needed according 
to the depth of the pan. 

COCOANUT CAKE (MRS. MATTHEWS, OHIO) 

Whites of eight eggs. i 1-2 cups of flour. 

11-4 cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix as an angel cake. Bake in layers. Make a frosting 
with the whites of five eggs, and two level tablespoonfuls of 
sugar for each egg. Put fresh grated cocoanut between the 
layers, and over the outside. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 

Add to the beaten eggs and sugar of a sponge cake mixture 



436 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

made with yolks of eggs, two tablespoonfuls of grated choc- 
olate, melted over hot water, and finish as any sponge cake. 
Use half a teaspoonful of cream-of -tartar with the whites of 
the eggs and flavor with vanilla. 

MOCHA CAKE 

Bake a sponge-cake mixture in two round layer cake pans. 
Prepare a mocha cream and spread smoothly between the 
layers and upon the outside of the cake. Score the cake in 
pieces for serving. Pipe with the remainder of the cream 
(see Butter Icing, Chapter XVII). 

LADY-FINGBRS (NAPLES BISCUIT) 

6 eggs. I cup of flour. 

I 1-4 cups of powdered sugar. A grating of lemon or orange rind. 

The juice of half a lemon. 

Mix according to formula. Press the mixture through a 
tube on to a baking-sheet, covered with paper, in portions an 
inch wide. and five inches long. Dust with powdered sugar, 
and bake from ten to fifteen minutes, without browning. 
Remove from the paper, brush over the fiat surface of one 
biscuit with white of egg, and press the underside of a second 
biscuit upon the first. 

LADY-FINGERS (QOUFFE) 

6 eggs. I 1-4 cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. Flavoring. 

LADY^PINQERS (GALLIER) 

4 eggs. I cup of flour. 

I '3 a cup of sugar. Flavoring. 

LADY-FINGERS 

6 whole eggs. i cup of sugar. 

3 yolks additional. i cup of flour. 

Flavoring. 

AFRICANS, OR OTHELLOS 

Press the lady-finger mixture on to the paper in rounds an 
inch and a half in diameter. When baked, spread the flat 






HOLLOW SPONGE CAKE. 
Filfcd with whipped cream, covered wilh s^.fl fn 



BIRTHDAY CAKE. 



FINGER BISCUIT WITH PISTACHIOS. OTHELLOS. 
pound cake cut in diarn-jncis and crescents, icc.i and dcc->raw<l wilh ch 
andangElica. (Sl-p panes 41O and 4iT.) 



J 



SPONGE CAKE WITH COLD WATER 437 

surface of half the biscuits with jam or jelly and cover with the 
remaining biscuits. Dip in chocolate fondant, or frosting, 
and dry on oiled paper. 

FINQSR BISCUIT WITH PISTACHIOS 

Press the biscuit paste on to the paper in oval-shaped strips, 
one and three-fourths inches long by three-fourths an inch 
wide, dust with fine granulated sugar, and, when baked, cover 
the tops with Italian meringue (boiled frosting), and sprinkle 
with chopped pistachios. Or strew the biscuits before baking 
with fine-chopped almonds mixed with sugar,^and the Italian 
meringue may be omitted. 

SWEDISH MBRINQUB 

The whites of five eggs. 1 -2 a cup of flour. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 

3-4 a cup of sugar (scant) . tract. 

Prepare as angel cake, bake in two shallow pans, when 
cooled, put together with the following filling and decorate 
with candied fruit. 

FILLING 

1 pint of milk. A few grains of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i cup of shredded cocoanut. 

3 yolks of eggs. Juice of 1-2 a lemon. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. Grated rind of half an orange. 

Stir the flour and salt with milk to pour and cook in the 
milk scalded over hot water; let cook ten minutes, then add 
the yolks beaten with the sugar and the orange rind ; stir until 
the Ggg is slightly cooked, then remove, add the cocoanut and 
when cold the lemon juice. 

SPONGE CAKE WITH COLD WATER 

^ e^S'S' ^ ^^P (^^^^ ^ tablespoonfuls) of cold 

3 Clips of sugar. water. 

The grated rind and juice 3 cups of flour. 

of half a lemon. i teaspoonful of soda. 

4 teaspoonfuls (level) of cream-of-tartar. 

Beat the eggs,"without separating, until very thick, add the 



. I 



438 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sugar gradually, beating all the time, then the grated rind, 
juice, and water, alternately, with the flour, cream-of -tartar, 
and soda. Bake in two long narrow sponge cake pans. 

ORANGE CAKE (MRS. ELLIOT RUSSEL, BOSTON) 

The yolks of five eggs. 2 cups of powdered sugar. 

The whites of four eggs. 1-2 a teaspoon ful of soda. 

2 cups of flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

Beat the yolks until light colored and thick; add the sugar 
gradually, then the whites of the eggs and the flour sifted with 
the soda and cream-of-tartar. Bake in two pans 11^x7 J 
inches. Finish with a filling and icing as below. 

ORANGE FILLING 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a froth; add powdered sugar 
according to the acidity of the oranges, then beat in the grated 
rind of one and the juice of two oranges. If desired, very 
thin slices of orange may be put between the layers with the 
filling. 

ICING FOR ORANGE CAKE 

Add the juice of a lemon to the unbeaten whites of two eggs, 
then stir in two cups, or more, if needed, of powdered sugar. 

RECIPES FOR CAKE MADE WITH BUTTER 

Prepare in the usual manner. (See Mixing Butter Cakes, 
page 426). 

POUND CAKE 

I 1-2 pounds of butter. 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

I 1-2 pounds of sugar. powder. 

I o eggs. I cup of milk (scant) . 

I 1-2 pounds of flour. Sliced citron. 

POUND CAKE BY MEASURE (ANN FLEURY, STOCKBRIDGE 
COOK IN SAME FAMILY 2$ YEARS) 

1 cup of butter. 4 eggs. 

1 I - 2 cups of sugar. i - 2 a cup of milk. 

2 cups of flour. I level teaspoonful of baking- 

powder. 



J 



ENTIRE WHEAT FRUIT CAKE 439 

WHITE POUND CAKE 

I cup of butter. The whites of 8 eggs. 

I cup of sugar. i level teaspoonful of baking- 

a cups of flour. powder. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

1-2 a cup of butter. i teaspoonful of baking powder. 

I cup of sugar. i-2 a teaspoonful of almond ex- 
The whites of five eggs. tract. 

I 3-4 cups of flour. 1-2 a pound of blanched almonds. 

3-4 a pound of cocoanut. 3-4 a pound of citron. 

Bake in a loaf and cover with a boiled icing. Mix as usual, 
adding the fruit last. 

FRUIT CAKE (AUNT REBECCA) 

3-4 a pound of butter. 1-3 a cup of molasses. 

3-4 a pound of sugar. i 1-2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. 

3-4 a pound of flour. i teaspoonful of mace. 

6 eggs. I teaspoonful of cloves. 

I 1-2 pounds of raisins. 1-2 a teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

I 1-2 pounds of currants. 1-2 a teaspoonfid of soda. 

1-2 a pound of citron. 1-4 a cup of milk or cold coffee. 

LOAF CAKE (MISS MINNA TRAIN, BOSTON) 

9 

1 cup of butter. i cup of cold water. 

2 cups of sugar. i 1-2 cups of chopped raisins. 

3 cups of floiir. 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

4 eggs. powder. 

I 1-2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, i nutmeg, grated. 

ENTIRE WHEAT FRUIT CAKE (CHARLOTTE J. WILLS, 

BOSTON) 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-3 a cup of pastry flour. 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. 2 cups of entire wheat flour. 

I cup of seeded raisins. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

I egg beaten without separating, i 1-2 teaspoonfuls of mixed spices. 

I cup of sour milk. 

Add the raisins (currants or nuts may be substituted) to the 
butter and sugar creamed together, then the egg and. alter- 
nately, the flour sifted with the soda and spices and the sour 
milk. Turn the mixture into small tins — it will take eighteen 



440 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

— and dredge the tops with granulated sugar. Bake about 
twenty- five minutes. 

FRUIT CAKE (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY, BOSTON) 

I pound of butter. i teaspoon ful of allspice. 

I pound of sugar. . 1-2 a teaspoonful of cloves. 

I pound of flour. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

1 o eggs. I - 2 a teaspoonful of mace. 

11-2 pounds of currants. The juice and grated rind of one 

I 1-2 pounds of raisins. orange. 

3-4 a pound of citron. The juice and grated rind of one 

I nutmeg. lemon. 

IMPERIAL CAKE 

1-2 a pound of butter, (i cup) 1-2 a pound of raisins. 

1-2 a pound of sugar, (i cup) 1-2 a cup of walnut meats. 

The grated rind and juice of half 1-2 a pound of flour. 

a lemon. 1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 

1-2 a cup of citron. 5 eggs. 

Add the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, before the flour, 
on account of the absence of liquid to moisten. Reserve a 
little of the flour for dredging the fruit. Seed the raisins, 
cut the citron fine and chop the nuts, and add the soda with 
the flour. Bake in a tube pan nearly an hour and a half. 

FRUIT CAKE (MRS. WM. B. SEWALL) 

I pound of moist brown sugar. i teaspoonful of allspice, 

I pound of butter, (scant) . i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

8 oggs. 2 pounds of raisins. 

I pound of flour. 2 pounds of currants. 

1 cup of molasses. . 1-2 a pound of citron. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. i level teaspoonful of soda. 
I teaspoonful of cloves. 1 sherry glass of brandy. 

2 glasses of sherry. 

Mix as usual; at the last sift the soda into the molasses 
heated over the fire, and while foaming stir into the other 
ingredients. Bake in two bread pans between three and four 
hours. 



J 



WHITE CAKE 441 

LINCOLN CAKE (JOSEPHINE J. KIMBALL, CANTON, OHIO) 

I pound of butter. i pound of raisins. 

1 1-2 pounds of brown sugar. i pound of currants. 

I 3-4 pounds of flour. 1-4 a pound of citron. 

I pint of sweet milk. 1-2 a pound of blanched almonds. 

I dessert spoonful of soda. i nutmeg. 

6 eggs. I teaspoonful of cloves. 

I tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

Mix in the usual manner. The baking is simplified and 
shortened by using two pans. This cake was a great favorite 
in Canton in 1861 and the years immediately following. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE (MRS. WM. B. SEWALL, BOSTON) 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. 2 cups of flour. 

1-2 a cup of butter. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

3-4 a cup of milk. The whites of four eggs. 

1 cup of chopped nut meats. 

Mix in the usual manner, reserving part of the nuts to 
sprinkle on the top of the cake when it is in the pan. Bake 
in a loaf in a moderate oven about an hour. 

NUT-AND-RAISIN CAKE (NLAlRIA W. HOWARD, BOSTON) 

1-2 a cup of butter, 2 i-a teaspoonftils of baking- 

1 cup of sugar. powder. 

I cup of sugar. a squares of melted chocolat-e. 

1-2 a cup of seeded and chopped 1-2 a cup of walnut meats cut in 
raisins. small pieces. 

2 eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a cup of milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

I 1-3 cups of flour. 

Add the chopped raisins to the butter and sugar, creamed 
as usual» and the melted chocolate and nutmeats at the last. 
Bake about three-fourths an hour. Frost with boiled icing 
and decorate with nuts and raisins. 

WHITE CAKE (MRS. HENDERSON) 

3-4 a Clip of butter. i 1-4 cups of fine granulated sugar. 

2 cups of flour. The grated rind and juice of half a 

The whites of six eggs. lemon. 

1-4 a teaspoonftil of soda. 



442 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Beat the butter to a cream ; add gradually the flour into 
which the soda has been sifted and beat to a smooth paste. 
Beat the whites of the eggs dry, using a whisk so as to make 
them as light as possible; whisk in the sugar (powdered sugar 
is designated by Mrs. Henderson, but fine granulated gives 
much better results), then combine the two mixtures, by beat- 
ing the sugar and egg very gradually into the butter and flour. 
Add the lemon juice last and beat until smooth. Put into 
an oven of very moderate heat. Bake half an hour or longer, 
according to the shape of the pan. Cover with an icing 
flavored with lemon. 

BRIDE'S CAKE 

I cup of butter. 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

1 cup of sugar. powder. 

The whites of eight eggs. i teaspoonful of lemon or rose ex- 

2 cups of flour. tract, or 1-2 a teaspoonful of 

almond extract. 

Add part of the whites of eggs, beaten stiff, to the butter 
and sugar creamed together, then the flour sifted with the 
baking-powder, the extract, and the remainder of the eggs. 
Bake in a round pan with tube in the centre. 

MOIST CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1-2 a cup of butter. 5 tablespoonfuls of hot water. 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. 1-2 a cup of milk. 

4 eggs. I 3-4 cups of flour. 

4 ounces of chocolate. 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

I teaspoonful of cinnan?on. powder. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, mix with the hot water 
indicated and beat at once into the butter and sugar creamed 
together and beaten with the yolks of the eggs; add the milk, 
alternately, with the flour sifted with the cinnamon and bak- 
ing-powder, and, lastly, the vanilla and whites of eggs. Bake 
in a sheet about forty minutes. The pointer on the "heat- 
indicator" should not quite reach the twelve o'clock mark- 
Cover with a boiled frosting. 



1 



ICE CREAM CAKE 443 



DEVIL'S FOOD 

1-2 a cup of butter. 21-3 cups of floxir. 

2 cups of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

4 eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I cup of milk. I teasp'oonful of vanilla extract. 

1-2 a cup of grated chocolate. 

Cream the butter with one cup of the sugar; add the other 
cup of sugar to the beaten yolks and combine the two ; add the 
milk alternately with the flour, sifted with the cinnamon and 
baking-powder, then the vanilla, the whites of the eggs beaten 
dry, and lastly the melted chocolate. Bake in a tube pan 
or in layers. Put together and ice with boiled frosting, to 
which candied fruit, cut fine, has been added; or use a marsh- 
mallow icing. 

ELEGANT CAKE 

1 cup of butter. 31-2 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
1-2 a cup of milk. The whites of seven eggs. 

Bake in layers or in one sheet. Ice as desired. 

PLAIN CAKE 

1-3 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of milk. j^ 

1 cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. ^ 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

I 1-2 cups of flour. • 

Bake in layers; put together with a filling and ice the top. 
Fig, date, lemon or orange filling is suitable. Serve freshly 
made. 

ICE CREAM CAKE, NO. z (BOSTON CATERER) 

I cup of butter. i pound of flour (4 cups) . 

I I -2 cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of eggs. 3 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

I cup of milk. 1-4 a teaspoonful of mace. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually, the eggs, two 
at a time, unbeaten, and beat each time until very light, then 
add the milk alternately with the flour, mace, and leavening 



444 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

agents; add the vanilla last. Bake in a tube pan; ice as 
desired. 

LEMON CAKE 

I cup of butter. i tcaspoonful of soda (scant). 

3 cups of sugar. * The whites of five eggs. 

5 yolks of eggs. The grated rind and juice of one 

I cup of milk. lemon, or 

4 cups of flour. 4 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

Follow the directions for mixing cakes with butter, adding 
the lemon juice last. Bake in two loaves about an hour. 
The heat of the oven should be very moderate at first. A 
Turk's head pan gives good results. Cover with icing flavored 
with lemon rind and juice. The cake is at its best after being 
kept two or three days. 

HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE (WITHOUT YEAST) 

(MRS. D. A. KIMBALL) 

1 1-2 cups of butter. * The whites of three eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. a cups of sultana or stoned raisins. 

3 yolks of eggs. i cup of ctu*rants. 

I cup of milk. I 1-2 cups of citron, cut fine. 

3 cups of flour. 1-2 a cup of lemon f>eel. chopped 

3 level tcaspoonfuls of baking- fine. 

powder. 1-2 a cup of almonds, shredded. 

20 drops of vanilla extract. 20 drops of bitter almond extract. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding the fruit lightly dredged 
with flour last. Bake in two pans of the usual size for bread, 
or in a round pan of such size as to give the same depth, about 
an hour and a half. The heat needs be quite moderate. 

ROCHESTER GINGERBREAD 

1-2 a cup of butter. i cup of molasses. 

1 - 2 a cup of sugar. 3 cups of flour. 

2 eggs. I 1-2 tcaspoonfuls of soda. 
I cup of thick sour milk. i teaspoonful of ginger. 

I teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Bake in two brick-loaf pans, or in one shallow pan. 



1 



ALMOND CAKE 445 

NEW YORK OiNfiBRBREAt) (MRS. TAOMl>SON) 

I 

1-2 a cup of butter. i - 2 a cup of milk. 

I cup of sugar. 2 cups of flour. 

i eggs. i tablespoonfuls of yellow ginger. 

1-4 a cup of molasses. 1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in a loaf.* 

ICE CREAM CAKE, NO. a 

1 cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 6 teaspoon fuls of baking-powder. 

1 cup of milk. The whites of five eggs. 

Follow the directions for mixing butter cakes. Bake in 
two thin sheets. Spread "ice cream filling" between the 
layers, also upon the top and sides. Or use a White Mountain 
creatn, made of two cups of sugar, half a cup of water, and the 
whites of three eggs, adding bits of cherries, angelica, pine- 
apple, etc., to the filling. 

DELICATE CAKE 

 

3-4 a cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
1-2 a cup of milk. The whites of six eggs. 

I teaspoonful of almond extract. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in a loaf (tube pan) or 
layers. 

GOLDEN CAKE 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of milk. 

I cup of sugar. * 13-4 cups of flour. 

The yolks of eight eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I teaspoonful of orange extract. 

Bake in tube pan, cover with plain icing, or with ice cream 
filling, into which fresh or dried cocoanut has been stirred. 

ALMOND CAKE 

1-2 a cup of butter. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1 cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 
1-2 a cup of milk. 1-3 a cup of blanched almonds. 

2 cups of flour. Powdered sugar. 



Vjt <L 



??• 



446 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mix in the usual manner and spread in two layer-cake pans. 
Halve the nuts and press sidewise into the top of one of the 
layers, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Bake about fifteen 
minutes. Put the layers together with White Mountain 
frosting, to which one-third a cup of chopped almonds has 
been added. This cake is particularly good with a boiled 
chocolate dressing between and above the layers. Omit the 
almonds. Chopped English walnuts in the chocolate filling 
and halves of nuts on the top are good, though, perhaps, 
superfluous. 

PINEAPPLE CAKE 

1-2 a cup of butter. i -4 a teaspoonful of soda. 

I 1-2 cups of sugar, 3-4 a teaspoonful of cream-of- 

1-2 a cup of milk. tartar. 

21-4 cups of flour. - I teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

The whites of five eggs. 

Bake in layer-cake pans. Put pineapple filling between the 
layers and plain icing on the top. 

PISTACHIO CAKE 

Bake the mixture for ice cream or pineapple cake in a drip- 
ping-pan. When baked and cold, invert and spread the bot- 
tom of the cake with White Mountain frosting, and sprinkle 
thickly with chopped pistachio nuts. Flavor with half a 
teaspoonful of almond extract. 

MOLASSES DROP CAKE (MRS. TAYLOR) 

2-3 a cup of butter. i tablespoon fxil of ginger. 

2-3 a cup of boiling water. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

I pint of molasses. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I tablespoonful of soda. Flour for drop batter. 

Melt the butter in the boiling water and add the molasses 
and the other ingredients sifted together. Drop from a 
spoon on to a buttered baking tin, having the cakes some dis- 
tance apart. Bake in a slow oven. 



1 



NUT CAKES 447 

LEMON QUEENS 

1-2 a cup of butter. 4 eggs. 

I cup of sugar. i 1-4 cups of jflour. 

The grated rind and juice of 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt, 

half a lemon . i -4 a teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in small tins (lemon- 
queen cake tins are deep rather than broad) about twenty-five 
minutes. Cover the tops with plain icing flavored with lemon. 

PLUNKETTS 

I cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of flour. 

I cup of sugar. 3-4 a cup of cornstarch. 

6 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar, beating until foamy. 
Beat the whites of the eggs until dry and the yolks until 
light colored. and thick, pour the yolks over the whites and 
"cut and fold" together. Sift together, twice, the flour, corn- 
starch and baking-powder. Add the beaten eggs to the but- 
ter and sugar gradually, then add the dry ingredients and 
the vanilla extract. Bake in individual tins, buttered. Ice 
or not as desired. 

SMALL CHOCOLATE CAKES 

1-2 a cup of butter. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

1-4 a cup of cocoa. 1-2 a cup of water. 

3 eggs. I 1-4 cups of flour. 

1 cup of sugar. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Add the cocoa to the creamed butter and bake in small 
tins. When cold cover with marshmallow frosting, coiling 
the frosting round and round upon the top. 

NUT CAKES 

1-2 a cup of butter. i 3-4 cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

3 eggs. I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

1-2 a cup of milk. 3-4 a cup of walnut meats, broken 

in pieces. 



448 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in small tins. When 
cold spread the tops with White Mountain frosting and deco- 
rate with half a nutmeat. Or add half a cup of nutmeats, 
broken in pieces, to a maple sugar frosting, beat very light, 
let cool to keep, shape and put on to the cakes so that it be 
quite irregular in appearance. 

BRO^VNIES 

1-3 a cup of butter. i egg well beaten. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. i cup of flour. 

1-3 a cup of molasses (dark) . i ct^ip of nuts, pecan or wateuts. 

Mix in the usual manner, but without separating the egg. 
Bake in small, fancy-sh-aped cake tins. Press half a nutmeat 
into the top of each cake. Small pressed tins of American 
make in various shapes, as stars, shells, leaves, etc., can be 
purchased for three cents each. 

VIENNA QUEENS 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1 tablespoon ful of rich cream. 

3-4 a cup of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of vatiilla. 

3 eggs. 1-2 a cup of flour. 

6 ounces of dried cocoanut. 1-3 a cap of cornstarch. 

8 crushed macaroons. i teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding the eggs, beaten without 
separating, before the flour, cocoanut, and macoroon crumbs. 
Bake in small tins, buttered and dusted with equal parts of 
sugar and flour. Shell or nut-shaped tins are pretty. When 
cold ice and decorate with candied fruit. These cakes may 
also be baked in lemon queen tins; when cold remove the 
centres and fill with whipped cream; garnish with candied 
cherries. Or bake in two layers and put together with 
whipped cream. 

COCOANUT POUND CAKE 

1 cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 2 level teaspoon fuls of cream-ol- 
I cup of milk. tartar. 

The whites of six eggs. i - 2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

I grated cocoanut. 



J 



ENGLISH GINGER NUTS 449 

Follow the directions for mixing butter cakes; add the 
cocoanut (freshly grated) at the last and bake in two tube 
pans: ice with boiled icing. Or bake in small cakes — the 
mixture will make three dozen. When cold dip in fondant, 
delicately tinted, and ornament with halved almonds and 
candied cherries. For baking in loaves, or small cakes, the 
oven at first needs be at a very moderate temperature. 

PEANUT COOKIES (MISS YOUNG, NEW HAMPSHIRE) 

1-4 a cup of butter (scant) . i cup of flour. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. r-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespootifuls of milk. 2 teaspoon fuls of baking-powder. 

I egg. 3-4 a cup of peanuts. 

Mix in the usual manner; add the egg beaten without 
separating the whife from the yolk. Reserve a few whole 
pieces of nuts to garnish the tops of the cakes, and add the 
rest, pounded fine in a mortar, at the last. Drop on a but- 
tered tin, a teaspoonful in a place and some distance apart. 
The ingredients as given will make two dozen cookies. 

PPEFFEft NUESSE 

I pound of sugar (2 cups) . 1-2 a tablespoon ful of cloves. 

1 pound of flour (4 cups) . 1-2 a tablespoonful of mace. 

The grated rind of one lemon. 1-2 a tablespoonful of nutmeg. 

1-2 a cup of fine-chopped citron. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. 5 eggs. 

Pass the flour, sugar, spices, and baking-powder through 
the sieve together: add the citron and lemon rind and mix to 
a dough with the eggs beaten without separating the whites 
and yolks. With buttered hands shape into small balls, the 
size of a hickory nut. Bake on waxed or buttered paper, 
an inch apart, to a delicate brown, in a quick oven. These 
much resemble macaroons. The recipe gives seventy cakes. 

ENGLISH GINGER NUTS (JULIA DAVIS CHANDLER) 

1-2 a pound of butter (i cup) . i pound of flour (4 cups) . 

I pound of sugar (2 cups) . 2 tablespoonfuls of white ginger. 

2 eggs. 



4SO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, eggs beaten without sepa- 
rating, and ginger with the flour. Shape into balls the size 
of marbles. Bake in a quick oven, but avoid burning. This 
recipe makes about forty little cakes similar to macaroons 
in looks and flavor. Fine-chopped candied orange peel is an 
improvement to these cakes. 

FAIRY GINGERBREAD 

I - 2 a cup of butter. i - 2 a cup of milk. 

C"l t^u^PL ' ^^P ^^ powdered sugar. i 1-2 cups of flour, 

I tablespoonful of ginger. 

Cream together the butter and sugar; add the milk drop by 
drop, then the flour and ginger sifted together. With a 
broad-bladed knife spread the mixture very thin on the bot- 
tom of dripping-pans, inverted and buttered, and mark in 
squares ; bake about five minutes or until delicately colored. 
The heat of the oven should be moderate. Very quickly cut 
the wafers apart, turn upon the hot pan, and roll in a tubular 
shape. Roll either from one side or comer. 

ALMOND WAFERS 

1-2 a cup of butter. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

I cup of powdered sugar. 2 cups of pastry flour.  -f 

1-2 a cup of milk. Chopped almonds. 

Mix, bake, and roll as fairy gingerbread, sprinkling the mix- 
ture, after spreading and scoring, with the chopped almonds. 
The wafers may be tied in threes with very narrow ribbon. 
Or, the sides dipped in caramel, they may be pressed one 
against another around a mould. Heat the mould a little, 
and the case may be slipped from the mould to set in place 
about a charlotte or Bavarian cream. 

GRAHAM WAFERS 

I -3 a cup of butter. i - 2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

The white of one egg. 1-2 a cup of water. 

Graham flour to knead. 

Mix in the usual manner, roll very thin, cut in squares with 



J 



COOKIES 45 1 

a sharp knife, or a pastry j agger, and prick with a fork; bake 
until crisp, but of delicate color. 

GERMAN RINGS 

I pound of flour (4 cups) . The yolks of three eggs. 

8 ounces of butter (i cup) . 1-2 a teaspoon ful of vanilla extract. 

6 ounces of sugar (3-4 a cup) . Sliced almonds or pistachios. 

The white of one egg. 

Cream the butter and add the sugar, yolks of eggs, vanilla, 
and flour. Add the last of the flour very carefully, as all may 
not be required. Knead until well mixed, then roll into a 
thin sheet, cut into rings two inches across, brush over with 
the white of egg, slightly beaten and sprinkle thickly with 
thin sliced or chopped almonds or pistachios. Bake a pale 
straw color. 

GERMAN CRISPS 

1 cup of butter. 3 eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. Flour to knead. 

The grated rind and juice of Chopped nuts, fruit, etc. 

one lemon. 

Add the sugar gradually to the creamed butter, then the 
rind and juice of the lemon, the yolks and whites beaten 
separately, and the flour. Roll into a thin sheet, cut out into 
rounds, hearts, diamonds, etc., brush over with beaten white 
of egg and decorate with nuts and candied fruit. Bake to a 
delicate straw color. 

COOKIES 

1 cup of butter. 1-2 to i full cup of milk. 

2 cups of sugar. 4 cups of flour or less. 

2 eggs. 6 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding milk according as a rich, 
crisp, or a less rich and soft cookie is desired. Diminish 
the quantity of floUr and baking-powder, if less than a full 
cup of liquid be used. Take a little of the dough upon the 
board at a time, and handle as little as possible; the dough 
should be quite soft, if a cup of milk be used, pat into a sheet 
and cut into cakes. After placing in the pan dredge with 
granulated sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 



4Si PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SOFT JUMBLES (MRS. SIDNEY LINCOLN) 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of sour creaxli. 

I cup of sugar. a 1-2 cups of flour. 

I beatfen egg. 1-2 a teaspoon ful of soda. 

Caraway seed. 

Mix in the order given; drop from a spoon; bake in a slow 
oven. 

GINGER SNAPS 

. I cup of butter. i egg. 

I cup of sugar. i teaspoonf ul of soda. 

I cup of molasses. i tablespoonful of ginger. 

Flour to knead. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding the flour sifted with the 
ginger, and the soda last. 

MOLASSES CANDY COOKIES (ELEANOR J. McKENZIE) 

I cup of butter. 21-2 cups of molasses. 

2 cups of flour. 

Boil the butter and molasses until thick, but not quite 

candied; when cooled a little, add the flour, more may be 

required. Wlien thoroughly cold, roll and cut into cakes. 

Bake in a slow oven. 

HERMITS 

I cup of butter. 3 cups of flour or more. 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of cloves. 

I cup of chopped raisins. i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

3 eggs. I teaspoonful of soda. 

Add the raisins to the butter and sugar creamed together; 
then add the eggs, beaten without separating the whites and 
yolks, and the flour sifted with the soda and spice; roll into 
a thin sheet, cut in rounds and bake in a slow oven. 

SPRINGERLE 

4 eggs. I pound of flour. 

I pound of powdered sugar. i teaspoonful of baking-i>owder. 

The grated rind of one lemon. (scant.) 

z-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 



WITH ALMOND ICING. ICING WITH PATTERN. 



SPRINGERLIE MOCLD. 



BOSTON CREAM CAKES 453 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light colored and thick, 
the whites until dry, then beat together; add the grated 
lemon rind and the sugar, sifted, very gradually, beating all 
the time, lastly add the flour with the baking-powder and 
salt. All of the flour may not be required. Knead and cover 
closely; let chill two or three hours, then roll, a small piece at 
a time, into a sheet one-eighth an inch thick; with a very 
close sieve dust the sheet of dough lightly with flour, then 
press the wooden springerle mould down very hard upon the 
dough, so as to leave a perfect impress of the pictures upon 
the dough; cut out the little squares with a knife and set 
aside, on a board lightly floured, over night. In the morning 
transfer to baking-tins, buttered and sprinkled with anise 
seed, and bake in a slow oven to a light straw color. These 
delicious little cakes are quite universally made in Germany 
a few weeks before Christmas. Often they are kept on hand 
for months, and when eaten are softened in the beverage 
which accompanies them. Some of the pictures upon the 
moulds are grotesque, others are very attractive. 

CHOy PASTE 

1-2 a cup of butter. i cup of flour. 

J cup of boiling water. 3 large or four small eggs. 

Set a saucepan containing the butter and water over the 
fire ; when the mixture boils sift in one cup of flour and beat 
vigorously. When the mixture cleaves from the sides of the 
pan, turn into a bowl and beat in the eggs, one at a time, 
and very thoroughly. The mixture is now ready for use as 
indicated. 

BPSTON CREAM CAKES 

Put the chou paste into a pastry-bag with tube having an 
opening half an inch in diameter. Force the batter on to a 
buttered baking-sheet, in balls about two inches in diameter. 
Brusli over the tops with a little beaten egg, diluted with 
milk, and bake about twenty-five minutes, with heat strongest 
at the bottom of the oven. When baked and cold open at 
one side and fill with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, 
or with English cream filling. (See Custards.) 



454 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



FRENCH CREAM CAKES 

Press the chou paste on to a buttered sheet, giving the balls 
a slightly oval shape. Brush with egg and bake as before. 
Cut across the tops a little at one side and fill with thick 
cream, sweetened and flavored and beaten stiff. In filling 
the cakes use a pastry-bag with star tube attached. Sprinkle 
the tops of the cakes with sifted powdered sugar. Cream 
cakes are often served with a spoonful of strawberr>' pre- 
serves. In season, fresh berries mashed to a pulp may be 
added to the cream before whipping. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS 

Press the chou paste from a pastry-bag with plain tube, 
three-fourths an inch in diameter, on to a buttered baking- 
sheet, in strips three inches and a half in length. When baked 
and cold fill with French or English cream. Dip the smooth, 
or under sides, into chocolate fondant, or spread with choco- 
late frosting. (See page 461.) 

QUEEN ECLAIRS 

Bake eclairs in the usual shape, only smaller. When cool 
fill with peach marmalade, in which fine-chopped almonds 
have been mixed. Spread the tops with orange icing. 

SWEDISH MACAROONS 

1 2 ounces of shredded almonds, i pound of sugar. 

4 ounces of ground almonds. 2 whole eggs. 

4 ounces of cornstarch. The grated rind of two oranges. 

Pass the sugar and cornstarch throtfjgh the sieve twice, 
add the almonds, orange rind, and, lastly, the eggs beaten 
light without separating. With buttered hands shape the 
mixture into balls the size of a walnut; bake on tins, covered 
with oiled or waxed paper, in slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS 

Omit from the chou paste mixture given above two level 
tablespoon fuls of flour, and, after all the eggs are added, heat 



i 



MERINGUES 



4S5 



in an ounce and a half of chocolate melted over hot water. 
Press on to the baking-sheet in stars, by the use of the star 
tube. When baked and cold cut off the top of each cake 
and remove any uncooked paste from the centre; put into 
each cake a teaspoonful of strawberry preserves, or apricot 
marmalade, and above this a star of thick cream sweetened, 
flavored and beaten until solid. 

MERINGUES 

1-2 a pound (i cup) of whites 1-2 a pound (i cup) of fine gran- 

of eggs. ulated sugar. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

The eggs should be fresh ; add the salt, beat slowly at fifst — 

a confectioner's whisk is the best utensil for the purpose — 

then beat faster as they grow stiff, until they are very stiff; 

then whisk in two tablespoonfuL^ of the sugar; add the same 

quantity of sugar twice more, whisking in the sugar thoroughly 

each time before more is added, then continue beating until 

the mixture can be cut clean with a knife. Then add the rest 

of half a pound (one cup) of sugar, and fold into the mass 

lightly and smoothly. Lightly tack a sheet of damp paper 

on to a board about one inch in thickness ; with a spoon drop 

the mixture on to the paper, giving each spoonful an oval or 

egg shape. Dust these with granulated sugar, set into a cool 

oven, and let dry out rather than bake. At the last increase 

the heat, and let them take on a delicate brown color. When 

baked they can be lifted from the paper. Baking will require 

from three-fourths an hour to a full hour. When baked, 

remove the tacks and invert the paper; carefully take off the 

meringues, and take out the uncooked portion in the centre; 

lay, with the open centre up, on another board, and return to 

the oven to dry. When dry and cold fill the shells, nicely 

paired, with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, or with 

cream or water ice, and press the two corresponding parts 

together. Serve at once. The meringues may be baked on a 

waxed baking-sheet. 



456 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MUSHROOM MERINGUES 

With pastry-bag and plain tube shape the meringue mix- 
ture into rounds the size of mushroom caps, and in upright 
pieces, like thick mushroom stems. Dust the caps with 
grated cocoanut or powdered cinnamon. When baked and 
taken from the paper, fit the caps, while hot, on the stems. 

MERINGUES WITH WHIPPED CREAM AND STRAW- 

BERRIES 

These are more easily served, when they are arranged on 
individual plates. Place two shells close together, side by 
side, and fill with the froth from thin cream, sweetened before 
beating. Garnish with strawberries. Or dilute a cup of 
thick cream with a cup of strawberry pulp and juice, add 
sugar to taste, beat very stiff with a whisk and use as a filling 
for the shells. Garnish with whole berries, or with chopped 
or halved pistachio nuts. The two halves may be fastened 
together with a little hot caramel, to simulate a half -opened 
clam shell, then fill with cream. 

BOW KNOTS 

2 eggs. 1- 2 a level teaspoonful of cream-of- 

I -3 a cup of sugar. tartar. 

I tablespoon ful of thick cream 1-4 a teaspoonful, each, of salt and 

(sweet) . mace. 

I tablespoonful of melted butter. Flour to make a stifif dough. 

1-8 a teaspoonful of soda. 

Beat the eggs without separating; add the sugar, cream, 
and butter, then the flour sifted with the other ingredients; 
roll small pieces of the dough into strips in size and shape of a 
pencil, tie in bow or single knots, fry in deep fat and roll in 
powdered sugar. 

DOUGHNUTS 

I whole egg and the yolks of two 4 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tar- 

morc. tar. 

I 1-4 cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of milk. I teaspoonful of salt. 

5 cups of (sifted) flour. 1-4 a teaspoonful of mace. 



J 



BANANA SHORTCAKE. (See pi 



MUSHROOM MERINGUES. 



SMALL CHOCOLATE CAKES. HARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 



MARGUERITES 



457 



Beat the eggs, add the sugar gradually, then the milk, and 
stir into the rest* of the ingredients sifted together, mix thor- 
oughly, adding more flour, if necessary. The dough should 
be about as soft as can be handled. Take out a little at a 
time on to a floured board, knead lightly, roll into a sheet 
and cut into rings. Drop into hot fat and fry to a yellow 
brown, turning often ; drain on soft pajDer. 

MARGUERITES (EMMA L. MORROW, NEW YORK) 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of water, until it threads. 
Remove to back of the range and drop in five marshmallows, 
cut in pieces. Let stand to dissolve, then gradually pour 
on to the whites of two eggs, beaten until foamy. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of shredded cocoanut and one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. When partially cool add one cup of 
English walnut meats. Spread on saltines and brown slightly 
in a hot oven. This quantity will spread between three and 
four dozen crackers. Delicious for afternoon teas. 



CHAPTER XVII 



Cake Icingrs and Decorations 



' Uncooked. 



Icings for 
Cake. 



^ Butter Icing. 
Water Icing. 
Fruit Juice Icing* 
Chocolate Icing with Water. 
. Chocolate Icing with Syrup. 
Royal Icing. 
Soft Icing. 
Ornamental Icing. 
Almond Icing. 



Cooked. 



i 



"Boiled" Icing. ^ 



Caramel , 

White Mountain Cream 
or Italian Meringue. 
Chocolate. 
Fruit Juice. 
Marshmallow. 
^ Fondant Icing. 

Cakes are decorated with sugar in various forms, with fruit 
or with nuts, either alone or combined with sugar, also with 
butter combined with sugar. The simplest decoration is ob- 
tained by dusting a baked cake with white or tinted powdered 
or granulated sugar; this decoration is especially appropriate 
when the cake is baked in layers, and these are held together 
with whipped cream or a custard filling. The sugar will 
adhere to the cake much better, if the cake be first brushed 
over with white of egg or fruit jelly. Sugar of one color may be 
used, or the cake may be scored in some pattern as diamonds, 
squares, etc., and the design may be filled in with sugar in 
two or more colors. The decoration next in order, as regards 
simplicity of production, is obtained by sprinkling the top 
of the cake with either powdered or granulated sugar before 
baking; this may be elatJorated by inserting blanched-and- 

458 



J 



UTENSILS 459 

halved almonds side wise in the top of the cake, and sprinkling 
the whole with sugar. Fruit may be used in the same manner. 

When sugar, used for decoration, is mixed with liquid, to 
form a mixture, and this is spread upon a cake so as to cover 
completely its surface, the cake is said to be frosted or iced. 

The process of forcing frosting or icing through a bag 
with tube attached, so as to trace a design upon the cake, is 
called piping. Only specially prepared icings can be used 
for piping. 

A frosted cake is decorated with piping alone ; or coarse, 
colored sugars, citron, glace fruits, nuts, small candies and 
fruit jellies are combined with the piping. 

MATERIALS FOR UNCOOKED ICING 

With the exception of the syrup for chocolate icing, which 
is made of granulated sugar, and which might be classed 
among the cooked icings, all uncooked icings are made of 
confectioner's or XXXX sugar. This sugar is considered 
finer than ordinary powdered sugar. When eggs are called 
for, they should be fresh ; nuts should be without rancidity, 
and all flavoring materials the choicest in quality. 

UTENSILS 

The utensils needed in decorating are few: a sieve with a 
very fine mesh, twenty-eight holes to the linear inch, through 
which the dry sugar should always be passed, is of the utmost 
importance. For ornamental icing a round bottomed bowl, 
a wooden spatula, or perforated spoon, for mixing, and bags, 
with tubes for piping the mixture, are also essentials. 

The bags for holding icing that is to be piped may be bought, 
or, at very slight expense, made at home. (See Pastry-Bag 
and Tubes, page 32.) Copper tubes may be bought, in sets of 
six or twelve, at a confectioner's or a large kitchen furnishing 
store. These afford shapes for large and small rounds, stars, 
leaves, ribbons, cords, and frills. The angle at which the bag 
is to be held while at work depends upon the position of the 
surface to be decorated and the style of decoration; this is 
readily determined upon trial. 



46o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RECIPES FOR UNCOOKED ICINGS 

BUTTER ICING (MOCHA CREAM) 

I cup of butter. 21-2 cups of powdered sugar. 

The yolk of one egg. Coffee extract to taste. 

Wash the butter in cold water, to free it from salt, pat it 
to remove all water, and then beat to a cream ; add the beaten 
yolk of egg, and, gradually, the sugar and enough coffee ex- 
tract to give the flavor desired. A very little caramel or color 
paste may be added, to heighten the color when needed. The 
tint should be that of a cup of strong coffee with cream. Use 
for filling between layers and for piping. One or two squares 
of melted chocolate and a teaspoonful of vanilla may be used 
instead of the coffee. 

BUTTER ICING WITH SYRUP 

I cup of butter. Syrup registering 35** on sjmip 

The yolk of one egg. gauge, or one cup of sugar and 

Coffee extract. half a cup of black coffee. 

• 

Wash the butter in .cold water to remove the salt, pat it 
dry in a cloth and then beat to a cream; gradually add the 
beaten yolk and enough syrup and coffee extract to sweeten 
and flavor to taste. If neither syrup nor extract be at hand, 
boil a cup and a half of sugar and half a cup of black coffee 
about six minutes and let cool before using. If the syrup 
sugars or glazes over, add a tablespoonful of liquid coffee, 
let boil till smooth, then cool and use. A cup and a half of 
butter will be required for a large cake with heavy decoration 

WATER ICING 

About 4 tablespoonfuls of water or 11-2 cups of confectioner's sugar- 
About 4 tablespoonfuls of clear, Flavoring as needed. 

black coffee or Color pastes for tinting as desired. 

About 4 tablespoonfuls of fruit juice. 

If the cake be but slightly cooled, let the liquid be cold; 
if the cake be cold, let the liquid be hot. Stir the liquid into 
the sifted sugar, adding more, a few drops at a time, as needed. 
A little lemon juice added to other fruit juice accentuates the 



SOFT ICING 461 

flavor of the latter. The icing is of proper consistency, when 
it coats the spoon and conceals its color. 

WATER ICING WITH CHOCOLATE 

I 1-2 cups of confectioner's sugar i ounce of chocolate. 
About 6 tablespoon fuls of boiling 1-3 a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
water, tract. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water; add the boiling water 
and stir until smooth ; add the vanilla and stir in the sifted 
sugar, adding more hot water, if needed, to spread the mixture 
smoothly. 

CHOCOLATE ICING WITH SYRUP 

2 ounces of cocoa or chocolate. 1-2 a cup of T;yrup registering 30° 

1-4 a teaspoonful of ground cinna- on the syrup gauge. 

mon or cinnamon extract. Confectioner's sugar as needed. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water (the cocoa will melt in the 
s)aiip) add the cinilamon and stir in the hot syrup ; let stand 
over hot water until beaten smooth and very hot; add the 
vanilla and sugar as needed, then pour or spread upon the 
cake ; eclairs and small cakes may be dipped into the hot icing. 

ROYAL ICING 

The white of one egg. Confectioner's sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, or Color paste for tinting if desired. 
The juice of half a lemon or both 
water and juice. 

Stir sugar into the liquid ingredients, until the icing is of a 

consistency to spread. If the mixture be beaten instead of 

stirred, less sugar will be required, and the icing will be lighter, 

but it will be less soft and creamy and will dry out more 

quickly. 

SOFT ICING (ICE CREAM ICING) 

The whites of two eggs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 

1-2 a cup of confectioner's sugar. tract. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until foamy, then beat in, 
gradually, the sugar; add the flavoring and beat the mixture 
(a confectioner's whisk is the best utensil for the purpose) 



462 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

« 

until it is very -smooth and glossy. This makes a very soft 
icing. It is used principally on white layer cake, as filling 
and icing. It spreads easily upon the sides of the cake to 
cover. Make smooth with a silver knife. 

ORNAMENTAL ICINQ 

The whites of four eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of cream of 

I pound of confectioner's sugar. tartar, or 

I tablesi>oonful of lemon juice. 

Beat the whites of the eggs with one-fourth a cup of sugar 
three or four minutes, then continue to add the same quantity 
of sugar, beating the same length of time, until half the sugar 
has been used ; add the cream-of-tartar with the second quan- 
tity of sugar, or add the lemon juice gradually as the mixture 
thickens. Now continue adding the sugar, a spoonful at a 
time, beating several minutes between each addition, until a 
knife cut down into the frosting makes a *' clean cut " that will 
not close again. Spread the cake with a thin coating of frost- 
ing and, when this has hardened by standing, spread on a 
second layer, make it level with a thin knife, score for cutting 
in slices and set aside to become perfectly dry before tracing 
upon it the pattern for piping. Many recommend setting 
the cake in a warming oven a few moments, as ** the heat sets, 
swells, and glazes the icing. " Icing to be spread upon the 
sides of a cake needs be a little thicker than that for the 
flat, top surface. To the remaining frosting continue to add 
sugar and beat until the icing will flow in a continuous stream 
and keep the shape of the tube attached to the bag. The full 
pound of sugar will not be needed, if a part of the frosting be 
used, before its addition, to cover the top of the cake. 

The success attending the use of this icing depends much 
upon thorough beating between the additions of sugar. 

Particularly is this true of icing used for piping; this needs 
be stiffer and tougher than that for merely covering a cake; 
and this condition is secured by the beating rather than by 
the addition of sugar. Without beating it will not hold its 
shape. 

This icing dries very quickly and, if it be not used as soon 



J 




CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. HORSESHOE SHAPE. NAILS, 

ETC., IMITATED BY BLANCHED ALMONDS, 

(See page 454,} 



CHOCOLATE PI;FFS. (Sm c 



COOKED ICINGS 463. 

as finished, cover it with a damp cloth and plate. When a 
large cake is to be iced, it is better to make frosting, and ice 
and dry the cake, before commencing the ornamental icing 
for piping. Icing is often tinted with vegetable color paste. 
When a brown color is desired, cocoa or confectioner's choco- 
late, such as is used for dipping bon-bons, is preferable to the 
ordinary chocolate, which thickens too much to allow the 
icing to flow freely. 

ALMOND ICING 

Almond icing is used in connection with any of the icings 
given above excepting, perhaps, the soft icing; by its use 
crumbs, so troublesome in icing a cake, are avoided. Beat into 
enough almond paste to cover the surface of the cake to the 
thickness desired (one-eighth to one-fourth an inch does 
nicely) as many yolks of eggs as will make it of a consistency 
to roll out. Dust the moulding board with powdered sugar 
and roll into a sheet; cut, by a pattern, to fit the cake, press 
upon the cake and let stand twenty-four hours before spread- 
ing the icing. Four ounces of paste and the yolks of two 
eggs will cover the top and sides of a small cake, such as is 
shown in the illustration. 

ALMOND ICING, NO. 2 (M. M. MALLOCK) 

I -2 a potind of fine ground almonds. The whites of two eggs. 

1-2 a pound of confectioner's sugar. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until slightly frothy and mix 
with the almonds and sugar to make a stiff paste; add more 
sugar if needed, and knead until the mass loses its stickiness ; 
form with the hands or the rolling-pin into a shape to fit the 
top and sides, if desired, of the cake, press upon the cake and 
trim the edges evenly with a knife. Let stand at least twenty- 
four hours before covering with icing. 

COOKED ICINGS 

Granulated sugar is, as a rule, required for the foundation 
of cooked icings, though light brown and maple sugar are 
us^d occasionally. The sugar is cooked with liquid to different 



464 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

degrees by the sugar thermometer. The proportion of sugar 
to liquid, in making the syrup, is about four of the former to 
one of the latter, by measure or weight, as : one cup of sugar, 
(one-half a pound) to one-fourth a cup of liquid (one-eighth a 
pound). When the syrup is to be diluted with eggs, it is 
cooked to the soft-ball degree. At this point the sugar ther- 
mometer registers about 238. (See Boiling Sugar, page 628.) 

CARAMEL ICING 

3 cups of brown sugar (coffee C) . i tablespoonful of butter. 
1-2 a cup of cream or i teaspoonful of vanilla, 

1-4 a cup of condensed milk and 
1-4 a cup of water. 

Boil all the ingredients, save the vanilla, four minutes 
after boiling begins, add the flavor, and beat until the mixture 
begins to thicken, then spread at once upon the cake and 
score for cutting. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAM OR ITALIAN MERINGUE 

I cup of sugar. The whites of two eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla or 

1-4 a cup of boiling water. 1-2 a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Stir the sugar, cream-of-tartar and water over the fire, 
until the sugar dissolves and the mixture reaches the boiling 
point, then cook without stirring until the syrup threads 
when dropped from the spoon. The sugar thermometer will 
register about 238° Fahr. Pour the syrup in a fine stream 
onto the whites of the eggs, beaten until foamy but not dn% 
beating constantly meanwhile. Set the saucepan on the 
range a moment and continue beating until the egg looks 
cooked, then set into cold water, add the flavor, and beat 
occasionally until cool enough to spread. This frosting is 
made to perfection when it has a thin glossy crust upon the 
outside and is soft and creamy iijside. Ornament the icing 
and score for cutting as soon as it is spread, since it often 
crusts over instantly. If, when ready to spread, it seems to 
have been cooked too much, a little boiling water, lemon 
juice, preserves or syrup may be beaten into it. If not sut- 



CHOCOLATE ICING 465 

ficiently cooked, let cook longer, over a slow fire, stirring con- 
stantly, or add some ingredient, as chopped nuts. Or add 
melted chocolate, which thickens on cooling. 

BOILED PINEAPPLE FROSTING 

1-2 a cup of grated pineapple. The whites of two eggs. 

(juice and pulp) . 1-2 a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

I cup of granulated sugar. 

Cook the sugar and juice to a syrup that threads (217° 
Fahr.) and proceed as for White Mountain cream. 

BOILED MAPLE FROSTING 

I pound of maple sugar, broken 1-2 a cup of water. 

into pieces. The whites of two eggs. 

Make as White Mountain cream. 

CHOCOLATE ICING (BOILED) 

I cup of sugar. 2 ounces of cocoa or chocolate. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cream-of- tartar. The whites of two eggs. 
1-4 a cup of boiling water. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla 

extract. 

Boil the first three ingredients to the thread degree, 217° 

Fahr., on the sugar thermometer, beat in the melted chocolate 

or cocoa and pour in a fine stream on to the whites of eggs, 

beaten until foamy — not dry ; beat until cool, add the vanilla 

and spread upon the cake. This is a particularly good icing 

to use Avith English walnuts, or pecan nuts. Almonds make 

a more showy decoration, but they taste better with chocolate, 

if combined with preserved fruit as cherries. This icing does 

not thicken as quickly as the ordinary boiled frosting and will 

run from the cake somewhat ; with a silver knife return to the 

cake, even several times, when it will adhere. It has a dead 

rather than a glossy surface and will keep moist a week or 

ten days. If an ice with a glossy surface that stiffens at once 

be preferred, return the icing to the fire, after the addition of 

the chocolate, and boil a second time to the thread stage 

(without stirring), then finish as before. 



^ I 



466 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



MARSHMALLOW FROSTING 

I 1-3 cups of granulated sugar. 1-2 a pound of marshmallows. 
i-2acupof boi ling water. 2 tables poonf uls of boiling water. 

The whites of two eggs. 1-2 a tcaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Prepare the first three ingredients as *' boiled frosting." 
Add the marshmallows, cut in small pieces and melted with 
the boiling water over the tea-kettle. Add the flavor and 
beat until cold. Decorate with cubes of marshmallows, if 
desired. 

FONDANT ICING 

Icing made from fon'dant, both as regards looks and taste, 
is the best of all icings. However, it is more often used for 
small than for large cakes, as the best results are secured 
when the article to be iced is dipped into the icing. The 
fondant from which this icing is prepared keeps almost in- 
definitely, and, when not ready for use, may be bought of a 
confectioner or baker. A recipe for fondant is given on page 
630. To prepare for icing, put what will be needed into the 
upper part of a double-boiler set over hot water; add a few 
drops of syrup, at about 35°, and such flavoring as is desired, 
and stir while it melts. The water need not boil, as the fondant 
melts at a low temperature. Tint if desired, and dip into the 
icing the articles to be coated. Small cakes of all kinds and 
eclairs are most commonly the choice. Add syrup to thin, 
as the mixture thickens, and always stir before dipping an 
article. Made a little thinner than for dipping, it may be 
run onto a large cake. 

TO IC£ A CAKE 

• 

Cakes that are properly mixed and baked need but little 
if any trimming to put them into symmetrical shape for 
icing. Trimming should be avoided if possible, for a cake 
with a smooth surface and free from loose crjmbs is the first 
essential of neat work. Often bakers brush the entire sur- 
face of angel cakes with a whisk broom before pouring over 

them the thiu water icing with which these cake§ ar^ usually 



I 

i 



TO PIPE A CAKE WITH ORNAMENTAL ICING 467 

masked. Small cakes cut from a sheet are "glazed," or 
brushed over with white of egg mixed with a small quantity 
of sugar, then allowed to dry twelve hours or more before 
icing. The preliminary smooth covering of almond icing 
answers the purpose for another class of cakes. Many cakes 
may be inverted, thus presenting the surface next to the 
tin or lining of the tin for icing. *' Water" icings and boiled 
icings need be spread very rapidly, as they set very soon, and 
the surface cannot be improved in appearance afterwards 
save by the addition of another complete layer of icing. 
Royal icing may be made smooth and even with a silver 
knife wet in hot or cold water. 

Nearly a pound of royal icing will be needed to cover the 
top and sides of a cake of ordinary size. 

TO ICE WITH ROYAL ICING 

Pour a quantity of the icing on to the middle of the cake 
and spread with knife, dipped in water, in an even layer over 
the top of the cake, turning it smoothly over the edges. Add 
sugar to the remaining icing and when thoroughly beaten 
put this by spoonfuls against the sides of the cake, and. spread 
upward and downward until smooth. The cake should be 
set on a box resting on a meat or similar board, kept for the 
purpose, or on a large platter. Turn the cake by turning 
the box. The icing that drops to the board, or plate, below 
can be taken up and used again. Let the cake stand in the 
warm room or in the warming oven to dry for an hour or so. 
At this time nuts or candied fruit may be put in place. If 
the cake is to be iced with ornamental icing, it needs stand 
twelve hours or more. 

TO PIPE A CAKE WITH ORNAMENTAL ICINO 

The forcing-bag and tubes necessary in piping a cake are 
referred to on page 32; see also illustration. To pipe a cake 
after an elaborate pattern requires a steady hand and much 
practice, but dots, circles, lines, and stars combined into a 
simple pattern, or even the letters of a child's name, may be 
easily accomplished, if the outlines of the design be indicated 



468 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

by points like those made with a larding needle. Small cakes, 
iced with fondant, are very easily decorated. The white of 
one egg and sugar in proportion will suffice to decorate a 
large number. Small candies, candied cherries, violets and 
rose leaves are combined with the piping. For an elaborate 
design, suitable for a large cake, have a pattern traced on 
paper, cover this with a pane of glass and trace the pattern 
upon the glass until it is learned. Scrape off the icing before 
it dries and repeat. Lard or butter may be used instead of 
icing, while learning how to manipulate the tubes. 

FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKES 
PINEAPPLE FILLING 

Carefully remove the outside and **eyes" of a pineapple, 
then grate the flesh from the core. Simmer until well reduced. 
To each cup of reduced pulp add three-fourths a cup of sugar 
and cook to a marmalade. When cool spread between the 
layers of cake. The addition of the grated rind and juice of 
half a lemon tends to heighten or bring out the flavor of the 
pineapple. Finish the top of the cake with a boiled frosting, 
flavored with lemon, or use a confectioner's frosting. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING, NO. 2 

Stir enough sifted confectioner's sugar into half a cup of 
pineapple pulp, reduced without sugar, to make a mixture of 
consistency to spread; flavor with orange or lemon extract, 
or a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and use as filling and frost- 
ing. 

FIG FILLING 

1-2 a pound of figs. 2 tablespoonftils of sugar. 

I -4 a cup of water. Juice of half a lemon. 

3 tcaspoonfuls of sherry wine. 

Chop the figs very fine; cook with the sugar, water and 
fruit juice to a smooth paste ; add the wine, then use between 
layers of cake. Cooked less thick the mixture may be used 
with confectioner's sugar as a frosting and filling. A small 



J 



LEMON OR ORANGE FILLING 469 

portion of pulp may be added to a boiled frosting after the 
syrup has been poured upon the eggs. If, at any time, through 
insufficient cooking, or the addition of too much liquid mate- 
rial, a boiled frosting is too thin to hold its shape, return to the 
fire and beat very vigorously, while it evaporates a little. 

LEMON OR ORANGE FILLING 

I cup of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I lemon or orange. i egg or two yolks of egg. 

Beat the egg without separating the white and yolk; 
add the sugar, the grated rind and juice of the fruit and the 
butter, and cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until the 
mixture thickens. Use when cold. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

Pastry and Pies 

Dame, get up and bake your pies, 
Bake your pies, bake your pies; 

Dame, get up and bake your pies, 
On Christmas day in the morning. 

Evidently Mother Goose, dear old soul, was in advance of 
her day and generation, in the art of cookery, as well as in 
matters that pertain to the bringing-up of children and sundry 
other perplexing questions of her day and ours. That Mother 
Goose was at the front in matters of cookery is evidenced by 
the fact that in those days, when pies were made by the 
hundred, — the plate on which they were baked being handed 
around the neighborhood, — she advised all good housewives 
to bake their pies on Christmas morning; that is, on the day 
in which they were to be eaten. Without doubt, this wise 
old mother did not give her admonitions simply for the sake 
of rhyming. No: she had reasons for the same; and, like 
many another Boston woman who has had the courage of 
her convictions, she boldly announced them, heresy though 
they were, But the world moves; the wisdom of yesterday 
is an exploded theory to-day, and in our day, though pastry 
works better when it is prepared the day beforehand, pi*^s, 
in the usual acceptance of the term, are not "put together" 
until the day on which they are to be served. 

The digestion of fat is not begun in the mouth as is that of 
starch. Fat undergoes no change in the system, until it is 
emulsified and saponified in the small intestines. As in mak- 
ing pastry the starch granules are completely enveloped in 
fat, these cannot be seized upon by the saliva in the mouth, 
and hence the digestion of. the starch in pastry is postponed 

470 



J 



PASTRY AND PIES 471 

until after the fat is acted upon. Then, if the pancreatic 
juice can discharge its office, all is well, but if this fails, the 
starch becomes so much waste material. The fact that in- 
"sufficient water is added before cooking to cause the starch 
granules to swell properly also hinders digestion. For these 
and other reasons **pie" is no longer given a place in "good 
society." Yet, when one with good understanding of the 
subject uses good materials and is willing to give time and 
attention to the manipulation and cooking of pastry, pies 
may be so made that an occasional indulgence therein may be 
condoned. In the semi-privacy of family gatherings, par- 
ticularly during the holiday season, pie is often in evidence; 
while anything made of puff-p'aste is given place of honor, on 
any occasion, no matter how formal. 

The English are noted for the number and variety of their 
pies. These consist of a heavy crust, made of suet, with 
fillings composed of every known kind of fish or flesh. They 
are eaten hot or cold, and are, no doubt, a relic of that rude 
age, when every man's dwelling was his castle, from which 
he was wont to sally forth with his retainers, to avenge wrongs 
or enlarge the boundaries of his feudal domain. Dickens 
makes his characters revel in pies. You recall how his "fat 
boy" was always on the point of beginning or finishing "a 
jolly meat pie. " 

Some French cooks include brioche, choux-paste (used for 
Eclairs, cheese dishes, etc.), sponge and other cakes, under 
the term "pastry." The word as here used is limited to a 
mixture of flour, shortening, and some liquid, mixed, rolled, 
sometimes folded and baked for special purposes. 

Thus restricted pastry may be classified under four heads : 



Pastry. ^ 



^p. . ( I. Shortening mixed into the flour by Chop- 

in pi"g or with the tips of the fingers, 

p ^ j 2. Shortening worked into a paste of flour and 

( water by folding and rolling. 

F1 ir i»^' Shortening mixed into the flour by a com- 

^' \ bination of the first two methods. 

A fourth paste might be mentioned, for it is still in use in 
some parts of England as it was in this country in early 



472 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

colonial times, but it now has become well nigh obsolete. In 
this pastry, the shortening, beef or mutton suet, is melted in 
boiling water and stirred boiling hot into the flour. After 
kneading and rolling the pastry into a thick sheet it is shaped 
upon or in a m.ould by pressing upon it with the fingers until 
the mould is covered. Thus the *' raised pies" of colonial 
times were made. 

MATERIALS AND UTENSILS 

A cool, dry atmosphere is an essential condition in suc- 
cessful pastry-making. A flour that absorbs moisture least, 
that is, a fine pastry or cake flour, well dried by standing in 
the warming oven, is a first requisite in pastry-making. There 
are several good brands of flour made expressly for this pur- 
pose. The shortening, except for puff-paste, is largely a 
matter of taste. Lard makes a light-colored, soft, tender 
crust. Cottolene gives a paste slightly darker when baked, 
but also soft and tender. The vegetable oils give good results. 
Beef suet or butter, alone or in combination, may be used 
for any paste other than puff ; for this butter is generally pre- 
ferred, though some chefs choose a clarified suet. 

Formerly ice water was thought necessary in mixing paste, 
but, at the present time, it is known that the process is simpli- 
fied by using water of the same temperature as that of the 
room in which the paste is mixed; this, needless to say, should 
be very low. No more water should be used than is absolutely 
necessary, as water detracts from the shortness of the crust. 

PROPORTIONS OF FLOUR AND WATER 

Flour varies greatly, but half the weight of the flour in 
water, or four ounces of water (one-half a cup) to eight of 
flour (two cups) will usually be about the right proportion for 
plain pastry. A small quantity of baking-powder insures 
lightness, but it is not essential to the product of an expert. 
In summer time ice is needed to chill puff-paste, before it is 
sent to the oven; at other times avoid its use if possible. A 
marble slab, firmly set, offers the best "field of operations." 
A square of sailcloth and a rolling-pin, fitted with a stockinet 



i 



UTENSILS FOK MAKING PASTRY. 




PLAIN PASTRY 473 

cover, both lightly dredged with flour, are good substitutes; 
but, lacking these, a perfectly smooth hardwood board will 
suffice. The rolling-pin should be made with movable ends. 
A flour dredger, a knife for mixing, and a chopping-bowl and 
knife complete the list of needful utensils. 

KEEPING PASTRY 

Any kind of paste will keep uncooked a day or two, longer 
at some seasons, if it be set aside in a cool place. If baked 
by itself (without a filling) cooked pastry will keep several 
days in a dry plsCce. Before serving, reheat with care and it 
will present the crispness and freshness of pastry just baked. 

PLAIN PASTRY (CHOPPED PASTE) 

3 cups of flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of baking-powder 

1-3 a teaspoonful of salt. i cup of shortening. . 

3-8 to 3-4 a cup of water. 

Sift the flour, salt, and baking-powder into a chopping- 
bowl. Flour the blade of the chopping knife and chop the 
shortening into the flour, being very careful to keep the flour 
between the blade of the knife and the shortening as much as 
possible. When the mixture looks like meal, each little 
particle of fat being coated with flour, add, gradually, cold 
water enough to make a paste that is not crumbly, but sticks 
together without adhering to the knife or bowl. If preferred, 
turn the ingredients, after chopping, into an earthen mixing- 
bowl. A case knife is preferable for mixing paste. When 
the paste rolled with a knife into a ball has taken up all the 
particles of dough or flour on the sides of the bowl, turn on to 
the board lightly dredged with flour, roll about in the flour 
with the knife, then pat with the rolling-pin into a rectangular 
shape and roll out to the thickness required. Do not allow 
the paste to stick to the board or the roller. If the mass 
slides on the board, it will not stick. Dust the board or the 
paste with flour when necessary, but use no more flour than 
is absolutely required. Use this paste at once; or roll into 
one long strip, then fold so as to make three layers, turn half- 
way around, so that the open end may lie facing the operator 



474 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and roll out again into a long strip, fold, and turn as before. 
This process may be repeated. If the paste be closely covered 
and set aside, it may be manipulated, after some hours, even 
more easily than when first made. 

FLAKY PASTRY 

3 cups of flour. 1-2 a cup of shortening. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3-8 to 3-4 a cup of water. 

1-2 a cup of washed butter. 

Wash the butter and set aside as for puff-paste. With a 
knife or the tips of the fingers work the half-cup of shortening 
into the flour and salt. When the mixture looks like meal, 
add the cold water, gradually, and with a knife mix to a paste 
as in plain pastry; knead slightly, cover and let stand five 
minutes, then pat with the rolling-pin and roll out into a 
rectangular sheet. Fold in the butter as in puff-paste, and 
give the paste two or three "turns, '* allowing it to stand five 
minutes between each turn. This pastry may be used at once. 
If set away for future use, cover closely to exclude the air 
and avoid the forming of a crust. 

CREAM PASTRY (FOR ONE LARGE PIE) 

1-3 a teaspoonful of baking- i 1-4 cups of flour. 

powder, or 1-2 to 3-4 a cup of thick cream. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 3 tablespoonfuls of washed butter. 

1-3 a teaspoonful of salt. 

If the cream be sweet, use the baking-powder, if sour, use 
the soda. Sift the flour, salt, and leavening agent together; 
stir in enough cream to make a paste as described above. 
Take out rather more than half the paste, knead slightly 
then pat, and roll out to fit the pie tin. Knead the rest of the 
paste slightly, roll out into a rectangular sheet, and spread 
with the washed butter. Fold the first third of the paste 
over the second third, the last over the others, and pat and 
roll out. Repeat the folding and rolling two or three times. 
Then chill and roll to fit the plate. Do not begin to put the 
pie together, until the upper crust has been prepared and 
chilled. 



PIE MAKING 475 



CREAM PASTRY (FOR SMALL MEAT PIES, ETC.) 

2 cups of flour. Shortening. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. Cream as needed, or 

1-2 a teaspoonful of baking- Yolks of two eggs and 

powder. Milk as needed. 

1-4 a cup of butter or other shortening. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder; with the 
tips of the fingers, or a knife, work the shortening into the 
flour, then mix to a dough with cream or with the yolks of the 
eggs, beaten and diluted with milk. Cover the outside of 
the tins, which should flare somewhat, with paste, and prick 
with a fork. Shape a cover; decorate with bits of paste, 
brush the under side of the decorations with water and put in 
place and bake; remove from the tins, fill, put the cover in 
place and serve. 

POTATO PASTRY (FOR MEAT PIES) 

2 cups of flour. 1-2 a cup of shortening. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. i cup of cold mashed potato. 

2 tablespoonfuls of baking- Milk as needed, 
powder. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder; with the 
tips of the fingers, or a knife, work in the shortening, then the 
mashed potato; add milk to make a soft dough; turn on to a 
floured board, handle as little as possible, pat and roll out to 
fit the top of a dish filled with cooked meat, prepared for a 
meat pie. If desired the dish may be lined with the pastry 
and brushed over with the white of egg, before the meat is 
put in place. Roll the pastry about one-fourth or three- 
eighths an inch thick. 

PIE MAKING 

Use a perforated pie plate of tin or agate ware. Roll out 
a portion of paste, prepared by one of the preceding recipes, 
into a circular piece one-eighth an inch thick and a little 
larger than the plate; put the paste on the tin so as to exclude 



476 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

air from beneath. Do not stretch the paste; if it shrinks, 
so that it does not cover the plate loosely, roll again into a 
thinner sheet, as the paste will shrink even more when put 
into the oven. Brush over the surface with white of egg 
beaten slightly, that the liquid from the filling may not pene- 
trate the paste. Put in the filling, brush over the edge of the 
pastry with cold water and spread a second round of paste, 
cut a little larger than the pie plate, loosely over the filling; 
lightly press the edge upon the moistened edge of the first 
paste and trim if needed. Cut several slits in the top crust 
before putting it in place, to supply a vent for the steam while 
cooking. Bake in a slow oven from thirty-five to forty-five 
minutes. The pastry needs be well browned. If a glaze be 
desired, beat the yolk of an egg, add a tablespoonful of water 
and half a tablespoonful of sugar and beat again. Dip a 
soft brush into this mixture, lightly brush over the top crust 
and return to the oven; or this may be done before the pie 
is set into the oven. When desired, a rim, a long strip of 
paste three-fourths an inch wide, may be placed loosely be- 
tween the two crusts. Brush the edge of the under crust 
with cold water before putting on the rim, also the rim before 
laying the upper crust ; press together lightly. 

PIE WITH ONE CRUST 

Paste for a custard, pumpkin or squash pie needs be mixed 
quite stiff. Cut the paste nearly an inch larger than for the 
under crust of a pie with two crusts. Spread upon the plate 
as before, — always using a perforated tin, — then fold under 
the edge of the paste all the way round, so that, when the 
double fold is brought to an upright position, the cut edge 
will meet the plate. This double fold of paste will be larger 
or fuller than the plate and may be fluted with the thumb 
and finger, taking care to press each "flute" close to the plate 
at the bottom. Many cooks prefer suet, or part cottoleneand 
part suet, for a crust of this kind, as a firm paste will best 
hold a given shape. Fill the crust with the prepared filling 
and bake as before. 



PATTIES FILLED WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS IN BECHAMEL SACCE. 



J-VF.NT BAKED OVER A FORM, (Sop 



ETHERIAL APPLE PIE 477 

PIE WITH ONE CRUSr, NO. 2 

Sometimes the crust may be baked and then filled with 
a cooked filling. Some of the features that make pastry 
objectionable are thereby obviated. Invert a perforated 
pie plate, and cover the outside with pastry, cut to fit the 
plate; trim if needed and set on a tin sheet to keep the edge 
of the paste from touching the floor of the oven; prick the 
top of the crust with a fork, that it may rise evenly, and bake 
about fifteen minutes, or until thoroughly cooked. Slip the 
crust from the outside, and put in place as an undercrust. 
Put in the cooked filling, ornament with figures cut from 
pastry and baked, or cover with a round of crust baked sepa- 
rately, or with a meringue. 

APPLE AND PEACH PIES 

To prepare fresh apples or peaches for pies with two crusts, 
pare the fruit and cut in slices ; mix the sugar, salt and spices, 
if used, and sprinkle over the apples in the pie ; dot here and 
there with bits of butter. From half to a whole cup of sugar, 
according to size of plate and tartness of fruit, will be needed. 
Dried or evaporated fruit needs be soaked in cold water over 
night, then cooked quickly in hot water. For putting the 
pies together, see General Directions, pages 475 and 476. 

ETHERIAL APPLE PIE (RUSSIAN RECIPE/ 

ALINE P. DELANO) 

Bake eight large tart apples, pass them through a sieve 

into a large bowl, chill, then add three-fourths a cup of sugar 

and the whites of five eggs, beaten dry, with a few grains of 

salt. Beat the mixture until very white and light and bake 

in a buttered pudding-dish about twenty minutes. Serve 

hot with cream and sugar. Cooked prunes, apricots, peaches 

or berries, passed through a sieve, may be substituted for the 

apples. From one-fourth to one-half a pound of prunes will 

be needed; the quantity is largely a matter of taste. The 

same quantity of chopped dates or figs, stewed with a little 

water, may be used. 



478 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

"MOTHER'S APPLE PIE" 

Fill the space between the crusts with apples, sliced thin, 
rounding up the slices so as to make a very full pie ; add two 
or three tablespoonfuls of water and bake in a slow oven. 
When done, with a sharp knife, cut around the pie between 
the two crusts and carefuly lift off the upper crust. To the 
apples add half a cup or more of sugar, a few grains of salt, 
a tablespoonful of butter, and a grating of nutmeg; mix 
thoroughly with a silver spoon or knife, spread evenly over 
the crust, replace the upper crust, pressing it down to meet 
the apple, if necessary, and sift powdered sugar over the top. 
Serve when slightly cooled with cream and sugar. 

PRUNE PIE (CHICOPEE, MASS., RECIPE) 

3-4 a pound of prunes. The juice of half a lemon. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Let the prunes soak in cold water over night; stew until 
tender, let cool, and remove the stones. Arrange them in the 
crust, add the sugar, butter, lemon juice, salt, flour, and juice 
from the prunes, which should have been reduced in cooking 
the prunes. 

GREEN TOMATO PIE 

Green tomatoes. The juice of half a lemon. 

1-2 a cup or more of sugar. i tablespoonful of butter. 

A few grains of salt. 

Slice the tomatoes into the under crust: add the other 
ingredients, cover with paste and cook as an apple pie. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

 

Beat two eggs until whites and yolks are well mixed; beat 
into these one cup of sugar, and then one cup of cranberries, 
cut in halves, and a scant half a teaspoonful of salt. Bake 
with two crusts. 

CRANBERRY PIE OR MOCK CHERRY PIE 

Chop together one cup of cranberries and half a cup of 
raisins ; add one cup of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of fiour. 



LEMON FANCHONETTES 479 

mixed together, then half a cup of cold water. Bake with 
two crusts. 

CRANBERRY PIE, NO. 2 

Mix one-fourth a cup of cornstarch with two cups of sugar; 
pour over one cup of boiling water and stir until boiling, then 
add half a cup of molasses, half a teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of butter, and one quart of cranberries, chopped 
fine. Bake with two crusts. This quantity will suffice for 
two pies. Or cook the filling fifteen minutes and finish as 
"pie with one crust. No. 2," page 477. 

PINEAPPLE PIE (TWO CRUSTS) 

Mix together thoroughly one-fourth a cup of flour and 
three-fourths a cup of sugar; add one cup of grated pulp and 
juice of pineapple; stir and cook until the mixture boils and 
becomes thick, then remove from the fire and add one egg, 
well beaten. 

PINEAPPLE FANCHONETTES (RICH) 

Beat together three eggs, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, 
two-thirds a cup of sugar, half a cup of grated pineapple, 
and the grated rind and juice of half a lemon ; turn the mixture 
into patty-pans, lined with plain pastry, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. When partly cold remove from the pans, cover 
with a meringue and return to the oven about eight minutes. 
Fit the paste to one pan, remove and cut from paper an 
exact pattern, by which the others may be cut. If small 
fluted tins are used, press the paste lightly, but closely, to the 
tin, SO that when removed from the tins the paste will be per- 
fect in shape. Tins for pastry do not require to be buttered 
or oiled. 

LEMON FANCHONETTES 

Invert ** patty-pans" and cover the outside with plain or 
puflfpaste; prick the paste on the top and sides with a fork, 
set the small tins on a baking-sheet and thoroughly bake the 
crust. Remove from the tins and fill with lemon filling. 
Beat the whites of two eggs until dry, add gradually two table- 
spoonftils of powdered sugar, then fold in lightly two table- 



48o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

spoonfuls of powdered sugar; spread the meringue over the 
tops of the fanchonettes. Brown delicately in a very slow 
oven. 

LEMON FILLING FOR FANCHONETTES 

Moisten two tablespoon fuls and a half of cornstarch with 
a little cold water and stir into a cup of boiling water; let boil 
two or three minutes, then cook over hot water (double- 
boiler) ten minutes; add a teaspoonful of butter and a cup of 
sugar; remove the mixture from the fire, add the juice of a 
large lemon (grated rind also, if desired) and the yolks of two 
^^&^* well beaten. 

LEMON CUSTARD PIE 

Beat the yolks of three eggs until light and thick; add 
gradually one cup of fine granulated stigar and, one at a time, 
the unbeaten whites of two eggs. Beat orle-fourth a cup of 
butter to a cream and add to this, gradually, the egg mixture, 
also the juice of two small lemons, together with the grated 
rind of one. Cook, stirring constantly, over hot water, until 
the mixture thickens; set aside to cool, while the crust is 
baked over an inverted tin plate. Prick the paste here and 
there with a fork, that it may rise evenly. When baked slide 
from the tin on to a plate, pour in the filling, cover with a- 
meringue, and serve when thoroughly cold. 

ORANGE PIE (MRS. COL. DIMON) 

Cream one-fourth a cup of butter; add three-fourths a cup 
of sugar, the juice of an orange and half -the grated rind, 
together with the juice of half a lemon; beat until light, then 
add the beaten yolks of three eggs and the wliite of one, beaten 
until light. Bake with one crust. When partly cooled cover 
with a meringue made of the stiff -beaten whites of two eggs, 
to which three level tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar have 
been added gradually, and then two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
folded in. Brown delicately in the oven. 

FILLING FOR PUMPKIN PIE 

Select a sweet pumpkin ; they are small in si^, and of a deep- 
yellow color. Cut in halves, remove the seeds, cut in rings, 



LEMON PANCHO\ETTES. (See | 



STRAWBERRY VOL-AU-VENT. MERINGUE DECORATION. 



PUMPKIN- P!E, (See pages 476 and 460.) 



CUSTARD PJE 481 

rpmove th^ rind, and cut in small piece?. Stp^m untjl the 
pumpkin is soft and the water nearly evaporated. A sJqw 
fire is needed for the last part of the process, which i^ quite 
lengthy. Press the pulp through a sieve. To each cup and 
a half of the prepared pumpkin add one cup of milk and half 
a cup of rich, s^eet cream, scalded, one egg^ well beaten, a 
generous half-cup of sugar, and one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, 
qf salt and mac^. Mix together thoroughly. Bake slowly. 

PUMPKIN FANCHON^TTES 

Mix together one cup and a half of dry, sifted pumpkin, 
half a cup of sugar, two eggs, slightly beaten, two tablespoon- 
fuls of molasses, one tablespoonful of ginger, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, ^ scant 
half a teaspoonful of salt and one cup of rich milk. Pqur 
into small tins, lined with pastry, and bajce about twenty-five 
ipinutes. If baked as a pie forty-five minutes in the oven will 
be needed, 

SQUASH PIE (MRS. TRAOEY, N. Y.) 

I cup of gifted squash. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of sugar. i cup of double cream. 

Cinnamon, ginger, mace or 3 eggs beaten without separating. 

Nutmeg as desired. 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 

Mix the ingredients and bake in a plate lined with puff 
pa3te. Reheat before serving. 

SQUASH PIE, NO. 2 

Mix together one cup of steamed-and-strained squash, half 
4 cup, each, of milk and cream, half a cup of sugar, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth a teaspoonful of mace, or 
cinnamon, and one whole egg and the yolk of another, or half 
a cup of cracker-crumbs. Bake in a plate, lined with pastry, 
about forty minutes. 

CUgTARD PXE 

Seat four eggs until a spoonful can be held; add h^lf a tea- 
spoonful of salt and two-thirds a cup of sug^r, beat again, 



482 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and when well mixed beat in two cups and a half of milk. 
Turn into a deep plate, lined with pastry as for pumpkin pie. 
Bake in a slow oven until the custard is finn in the centre. 

FIG PIE 

Cook half a pound of figs, cooked and chopped fine, with the 
water in which they were cooked, reduced to- half a cup, and 
half a cup of cider, until smooth ; turn into a plate lined with 
pastry ; when baked cover with a meringue and return to the 
oven to cook the meringue. Boiled cider or lemon juice may 
be used instead of the uncooked cider. A little sugar may be 
required in some cases. 

RHUBARB PIE 

Bake the crust on an inverted pie plate (see page 477). 
To prepare the filling, cut the rhubarb into inch lengths; 
put a layer into a saucepan and sprinkle ^ith sugar; add 
other layers of rhubarb and sugar and cook till tender, using 
one cup of sugar to each pound of rhubarb. To each scant 
pint of cooked rhubarb add the juice of half a lemon and the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs ; pour the mixture into the baked 
crust, and set in the oven until the eggs have thickened the 
mixture. Spread a meringue made of the two whites of eggs 
over the top of the rhubarb and brown delicately in the oven. 

BERRY PIES (FRESH BERRIES) 

To a 'scant pint of berries add two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
half a cup or more of sugar, and a scant half a teaspoonftil of 
salt ; mix and put into the plate lined with pastry ; add bits of 
butter here and there, finish with a second crust and bake in a 
very slow oven. Brush the paste with white of egg before 
putting in the berries. Brush the edge of the under crust 
with water, before the edge of the upper crust is pressed upon 
it; brush the two edges together with water, but even with 
this precaution the juice is liable to leak out. 

BERRY PIES (PRESERVED FRUIT) 

Pies with canned berries are usually made in the same way 
as those with fresh fruit. When preserves are used, the 



MINCE MEAT 483 

pastry, either plain or puff paste, should be cooked before the 
filling is added. 

DATE PIE 

Remove the seeds from the dates ; stew in a small quantity 
of water until soft enough to strain through a colander. To 
one cup and a half of date pulp, add one egg, beaten slightly, 
a scant half-teaspoonful, each, of salt and cinnamon, and one 
cup and a half of milk. Bake with an under crust only. 

MIXTURE FOR MINCE PIES 

4 pounds of cooked beef, chopped 2 pounds of suet, chopped fine, 

fine. By measure, twice the quantity 

1 pound of sugar. of chopped apple. 
X quart of molasses. 3 pints of boiled cider. 

4 quinces, chopped fine, or 1-2 a pound of citron, cut fine. 

2 glasses of quince jelly. 2 pounds of currants. 

3 pounds of large seedless raisins. 2 lemons, juice and grated rind. 
6 oranges, juice and grated rind. i grated nutmeg. 

I tablespoonful, each, of ground i teaspoonful of ground cloves, 

cinnamon and mace. About two tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Let the meat cool in the water in which it was cooked ; add 
the other ingredients and, if more liquid is needed, use the 
broth from the meat. Fill the crust without previously cook- 
ing the mixture. Heat the rest of the mixture gradually, 
stirring often; let simmer an hour, then store in fruit jars as 
canned fruit. Puff paste is quite often used for the upper 
crust of mince pies. When baked brush over the crust with 
yolk of egg diluted with a little milk, sprinkle with sugar and 
return to the oven to glaze. Bake a generous hour. 

MINCE MEAT 

3 pounds of uncooked steak, top 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. 

of the round. i 1-2 pounds of kidney suet. 

5 potuids of pared-and-cored i teaspoonful of cloves. 

apples. I pound of raisins. 

2 tablespoonfuls of mace. i pound of currants. 

I tablespoonful of salt. 3 pints of boiled cider. 

I 1-2 pints of molasses. i pound of sugar. 

J- 2 a pound of citron. i nutmeg. 

6 oranges. 2 lemons. 

Syrup from sweet pickle jar, jelly and preserves ad libitum. 



484 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Pass the me^t, the ^uet, an4 the apples through the food 

chopper, and add the other ingredients: the raisins seeded, 

currants cleaned, and citron cut in thin slices. Use the grated 

rind and juice of the oranges, Mix thoroughly. M»ke up 

several pies without previously cooking the mixture. Bake 

an hour in a ipoderate oveii. Scald and store the remainder in 

fruit jars. 

PUFF FASTp: 

Wash thoroughly a mixingrbowl, and the hands, or a wooden 
spatula, first in hot, then in cold water. Pill the bowl with 
cpld water or let stand imder the faucet and work in the water 
half a pound, or one cup, of butter, until it becomes smooth 
and pliable ; then pat, until it is absolutely free from water, 
and shape into a flat, square cake. If the room be cool, do 
not chill the butter on ice, ?ince the use of ice is to be avoided 
if possible. Sift together half a pound, or two cups, of flour 
and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt ; Teserve two spoonfuls of 
flour in the dredger for dusting the board, mix the flour to a 
soft dough, toss o^ the board and kpead until smooth and 
elastic; cover and let stand from three to five minutes, then 
pat and roll out into a rectangular shape 



« 










Bntter 






A 





Fig. I. 

Put the piece of butter in the centre of the lower half of 
the paste and fold the other half over it, letting the edge "a" 
fall on "6". Press the edges together closely oxx the open 



PUFF t>ASTEi 



48^ 



side arid ends to keep in the air. Figure 2 now represents the 
paste; "d" re{)resents the butter betieath a layet of paste. 







• « 




d 









Fig, 2. 



"2" 



Fold the end marked *' i " under, and the etid marked 
over the pastej enclosing the buttdr, and press the edges to- 
gether closely. Cover and let stand from three td five mitiutes. 
Turn the paste half Wdy rbtitid, pat gently With the pin, thus 
pressing the paste together in ridges and breaking ujj itito 
smaller bubbles the enclosed air; roll out into a long strip, 
keeping the butter enclosed in the paste and the ends arid sides 
even, as herein, in large measure, lies the success of the under- 
taking. 




Pig' J. 

F*old the end marked "i** over "3," and "2'' over "i," 
making three even layers With straight edges ; press the edges 
together and turn the paste half way round, so as to roll in 
the opposite direction. Since the butter was enclosedj the 
paste has been rolled into a long strip and folded "in three. *' 
This rolling and foldiiig is calldd "giving it one tUttl. '* Repeat 
until the paste has been given six turns. Each time} before 
rolling the paste, turn it half way rouhd, haVitig aii opeh end 
towards you, so as to roll the paste from a different side each 
time. Cut out, as desired, and let chill thoroughly on ice; 
it will take about half kn hotil-. Bake on the lower floor of 
the oven. 



486 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

This gives a pastry in which the layers are very distinct. 
If two tablespoonfuls of butter be worked into the flour before 
the water is added, a tender crust will result; but the layers 
will not be distinct as by the first method. In rolling out the 
paste, take care lest the butter penetrate the dough. As long 
as the paste slips upon the board or slab, it is in good condition. 
Never roll back and forth, as the motion will break the bubbles 
of air, which are to give the paste its lightness. The folding 
of the paste gives the layers ; the cold air enclosed, on expand- 
ing in the heat of the oven, gives the lightness. 

If the room be cool, this condition may be easily secured; 
in winter the paste may be quickly made, and without the 
use of ice. But if the paste does not slip on the slab and 
shows signs of softening, it should be folded in a napkin and 
chilled in a pan set between two pans of ice. Having been 
chilled once, it will require chilling between each two "turns, " 
or, in the case of a novice, after each turn. 

BAKING PUFF PASTE 

Ice cold pastry and a very hot oven, especially on the bot- 
tom, are prime requisites when light ptiff paste is the article 
under consideration. When properly made and set upon 
the hot floor of the oven, the sudden expansion of the cold air 
enclosed between the layers sends up the paste. The top of 
the paste needs be protected from the heat above by a paper 
or sheet of tin, until the paste has attained its full height. 
Paste, cut one-fourth an inch thick, should rise about two 
inches in height. Turn, if necessary, that it may rise evenly. 
To avoid burning on the bottom, when the paste is well risen, 
very gently push a second sheet under that on which the paste 
is baking. 

SHAPING AND BAKING VOL-AU-VENTS 

Vol-au-vents are generally shaped in one of three ways, 
each of which has its advocates. 

VOL-AU-VENT WITH RIM 

Have the paste rolled out into a sheet half an inch thick; 
with a charlotte mould as a pattern mark out upon it an oval 



VOL-AU-VENT BAKED OVER A FORM 487 

of the size desired; then with a sharp knife, dipped in hot 
water, cut out the pastry, lay on a piece of double paper on a 
baking sheet. Cut out a second piece of paste of same thick- 
ness and size; then, with a small charlotte mould as guide, 
cut out the centre, leaving a rim an inch and a quarter wide ; 
brush the edge of the first paste with cold water and press the 
rim upon it. Set aside to chill. Bake about an hour. (See 
Baking of Puff Paste.) Roll out the pieces, cut out in making 
the rim, to the size of the other pieces of paste, giving it the 
same shape ; ornament this with figures cut from the trimmings 
and brush over the under side of each bit of paste with water 
before pressing it in place; chill and bake about twenty-five 
minutes. This will serve for a cover. 

VOL-AU-VENT BAKED IN ONE PIECE 

Roll the paste to the thickness of one inch nearly, and cut 
out in the shape desired ; then with the point of a sharp knife, 
wet in hot water, cut half way through, an inch and a quarter 
from the edge, all around the paste; brush the top with beaten 
yolk of egg, or beaten egg, chill and bake. Remove the centre 
carefully and set aside. Serve with or without this piece as 
the cover. Carefully remove any uncooked paste before filling 
the vol-au-vent. 

VOL-AU-VENT BAKED OVER A FORM 

For a large vol-au-vent make two pounds of puff paste, 

using three-fourths a pound of butter to a pound of flour. 

Roll one-third of this into a sheet (oval or round as suits the 

fancy) one-third an inch thick, and trim to the desired shape 

and size. Scallop the edge or leave it plain. Put the paste 

upon the baking-sheet and spread over it a large piece of 

cheesecloth. Roll excelsior into small balls and place these 

closely together on the cloth, about three inches from the 

edg^e, one layer above another, and each layer smaller than 

the one below, to give shape to the vol-au-vent. Pin the 

cloth smoothly about these, then roll out the rest of the paste 

into a sheet one-fourth an inch thick. Cut off two or three 

fourth-inch ribbons of paste, also crescent and diamond 



488 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

shaped pieces for decoration, and roll the rest of the paste a 
little thinner, then spread it over the cloth filled With excelsior, 
— first lightly scoring the p^ste all rdund about six inches 
from the centre to indicate a coverj — trim the paste .to meet 
loosely the under cfust, brush with water and press the upjjer 
crust firmly upon it. Brush the crust on both sides of scoring 
with cold water, and press upon it the ribbons of paste. 
Brush the utider sides of the crescent and diamond-shaped 
pieces with cold water, and put them in place inside of the 
ribbonS; Let chill, half an hour on ice, then put into a hot 
oven, protecting the top of the pie^ When Well risen, reduce 
the temperature of the oven and bake, in all, about forty 
minutes. When cooled slightly, With a shdrp knife cut atntind 
the crust, in the scorings between the ribbons, and take off 
.the cover. t)raw the pin ffoin the cloth, arid remove the ex- 
celsior, the cloth and any uncooked paste. When refedy to 
serve, reheat and fill with chicken or game heated In a hot 
sauce. Chicken may be in large pieces, from which the bones 
have been taken, or in cubes of the size used in filling patty- 
cases. Three chickens will be heeded to fill a pie of this sl«e. 
If the pie is to be served cold, it may be filled with bits of 
chicken and aspic jelly. The jelly should be cold, but not quite 
set, when it is turned into the pie alternately with thfe meat. 
Cubes of tongue and cooked mushrooms may also be added. 

PATTY SHELLS 

Roll the paste to one-fourth an inch in thickness; cut into 
rounds with a fluted or plain (Gutter, dipped itl flour; cUt out 
the centres from half the rounds, brush over the edges of the 
whole rounds with cold water and press the rings Upon them; 
chill on ice or in a cool place and bake about twenty-five 
minutes. (See Baking of PufI Paste.) Bake the centres cut 
from the rings for covers. French patty cutters are pur- 
chasable that will give" a clean, sharp cUt (one edge cuts the 
rounds, the otlier, the centres giving the rings). The paste 
may be rolled half an inch thick; cut iti rouhds, then cut half 
way through these with the small cutter. When baked lift 
off the inner paste for a cover and remoVe ^ny tih cooked paste 
berieath before filling. 



LADY LOCKS 489 

ORANGE CROUTONS 

Cut small rounds from puff paste, chill and bake; spread 
orange curd between each two, sandwich fashion : sprinkle the 
top with* powdered sugar or cover with confectioner's or 
WbX^t frosting. (Page 460.) 

ORANGE CURD 

i-4acupof buttpr. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

The juice and grated rind of one 2 ounces of candied orange peel if 
orange. desired. 

The yolks of three eggs. 

Melt the sugar and butter; add the juice and grated rind, 
and when hot stir gradually into the yolks, beaten thick: 
stir and cook until the mixture thickens: use hot or cold. 

BANBURY TARTS 

I cup of raisins. i cup of sugar. 

I 4 A pound of citron. The juice and grated rind of one 

I egg. lemon. 

Stone the raisins and chop with the citron very fine : add the 
grated rind and juice of the lemon, also the sugar, crumbs and 
egg, slightly beaten. 

Rail puff paste one-eighth an inch thick and cut in rounds 
between three and four inches in diameter. Put a little of 
the mixture on each piece ; moisten one-half the edge with cold 
'water and fold over the pastry, pressing the dry edge upon the 
half that is moistened very closely. Bake about twenty-five 
minutes in a slow oven. A cracker, pounded fine, and the 
juice (only) of a second lemon may be added. This gives a 
less rich mixture. 

LADY LOCK6 

Roll puff-paste one-eighth an inch thick and cut in long 
strips three-fourths an inch wide ; wind around wooden lady- 
lock sticks or forms, leaving a narrow space between the lines 
of paste ; trim the ends even with the sticks. Bake on a tin 
in a slow oven; remove the curls from the sticks and when 
cool fill "with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored before 
whipping- 



490 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

VIENNA WHIPPED CREAM ROLL (COOK'S RESTAURANT) 

Roll puff paste into strips four inches wide. Butter tin or 
hardwood cylinders about one inch in diameter and four 
inches long. Cut the strips of paste into pieces to fit the 
cylinders. Brush over one side of each piece of paste with 
white of egg or water, and press this side upon the first upon 
the cylinder, so that when baked and removed from the tin 
hollow cylinders of paste will be formed. Bake on a tin sheet 
in a slow oven. When cold cover the outside with chocolate 
frosting (confectioner's, boiled, or fondant) and when ready 
to serve fill the centres with sweetened-and-flavored cream, 
beaten stiff. 

CHEESE BOUCHEES 

Bake small patties of puff paste, about an inch and a half 
in diameter. When ready to serve, reheat and fill with the 
following cheese preparation : Sprinkle the cheese with fine- 
chopped parsley and replace the covers (pieces of paste cut 
out to form the patties, or the centres removed after the 
patties are baked). Serve very hot as a "savory," either at 
the beginning or end of dinner. 

CREAM CHEESE FOR BOUCHEES 

Let half a cup of Bechamel sauce (white sauce with chicken 
stock and cream, half and half, as the liquid), half a cup of 
cream, a few grains of paprika, and one-fourth a pound of 
Cheddar or Gruyere cheese, sliced very thin, stand over hot 
water until the cheese is melted, then beat thoroughly, and 
serve at once as filling for bouchees. The addition of one or 
two beaten yolks of eggs gives a thicker filling. 

MIRLITONS 

The yolks of four eggs. 1-4 a tcaspoonful of salt. 

The whites of two eggs. 1-2 a tcaspoonful of orange extract. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-4 a cup of melted butter. 

1-4 a pound of crushed maca- Powdered sugar, 

roons. Puff paste. 

Beat the yolks, add the sugar, salt, macaroons, extract, and 
melted butter, then the whites of the eggs, beaten until foamy. 



STRAWBERRY TARTLETS 491 

Turn into about thirty tartlet moulds lined with puff paste, 
sift powdered sugar over the top and bake in a slow oven. 
Serve hot or cold. 

STRAWBERRY VOL-AU-VENT 

Roll half a pound of puff paste into a thin sheet. Cut out 
an oval piece for a bottom and three oval rims, prick with a 
fork, chill and bake as usual. When baked spread the edge 
of the bottom piece lightly with strawberry preserves or me- 
ringue and press a rim upon it, and so continue until the rims 
are used. Make a meringue with the whites of two eggs and 
one-fourth a cup of sugar, and with this decorate the edges 
of the case; sprinkle with sugar and return to the oven on a 
baking-sheet; the heat should be very moderate so that the 
meringue will not take color in less than six minutes. When 
the meringue is delicately browned, remove to a serving-dish 
and fill the open space with sugared strawberries. Other 
fruit, either cooked or uncooked, may be used and whipped 
cream may be added to the top. The pastry may be kept 
several days after baking, reheating it before filling. 

STRAWBERRY HEARTS 

Roll puff paste trimmings into a sheet one-third an inch 
thick, and with a heart-shaped cutter, dipped into hot water, 
stamp into hearts. Score the top of each piece with a small 
round cutter, then prick with a fork, let chill and bake as 
usual. When baked cut out the centres, where they were 
scored, and fill with sugared berries. Decorate with whipped 
cream. 

STRAWBERRY TARTLETS 

Cut out rounds of puff paste, and when set in the baking- 
pan pipe a round of chou paste around the edges. Prick the 
paste with a fork in several places, then bake as usual. When 
baked fill the centres with fresh strawberries, sugared, or 
spread with strawberry preserves. Garnish with whipped 
cream.- 



49^ PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



MELPA TART15 

Make the pastry in the same manner as for strawberry 
tartlets. When baked spread the inside with a thin layer of 
quince marmalade, or use a mixture of two-thirds of quince 
marmalade and Qn^-third of English cream. (See page 588.) 

CPFFEB TARTS 

Prepare the pastry as for Melba tarts, and fill the open space 
with coflEee cream. Garnish with whipped cream. 



CHAPTER XIX 

Puddings and Dessert Dishes 

" I am glad that my Adonis hath a sweet tooth in his head. */. 

f liqtiid and 

a. Foundation of Puddings i starch or 

[ gelatine, 
''lightness 

b. Eggs added for i consistency 

^ food value. 

c. I'ruit of eqtllvalent for flavor. 

d. Suet, butter, cream for richness or whipped cream for lightftfeSS. * 

Ox*  £ i (ill foundation or 

e- Sweet m some form as sugar or molasses •< 

** ( sauce. 

/. Garnishes. 

SWBETd compose the last coufse of a dinner of luncheon. 
Ill this course are included cake, pastry, and hot and cold 
puddings, etc., which Thudicum speaks of as the "forerunner 
of tb^ dessert.*' In this course also are included custards, 
charlottes, creams, jellies, and ices, in the preparation of the 
more delicate of which form is often placed before substance. 
The dessert proper includes fruit, fresh or preserved, nuts, 
and bon-bons; It is often succeeded by a tiny morsel in the 
nature of a hot or cold savory, or of cheese. 

When sweets are presented, hunger has been appeased and 
the dishes should be light in character and elegant in appear- 
ance. If more than one dish be presented in this course, as 
it may be at an elaborate and formal dinner, the more sub- 
stantial dish precedes the more delicate and the hot precedes 
the cold dish. 

Puddings in which suet is used are appropriate only after 
an otherwise light meal and during cold weather, These and 
other puddings of similar nature are not in as great demand 

493 



494 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

as formerly, the tendency of the time being in favor of more 
easily digested sweets. Those in which cream predominates 
are especial favorites. 

In the past, the American housewife, as a rule, has paid 
quite as much attention to the sweet as to the substantial 
part of the dinner, but, with our present pronounced leaning 
toward French cookery and bills of fare, we are likely in time 
to give less prominence to the sweet course and finish the 
refection, be it luncheon or dinner, with a salad and bit 
of cheese. The desserts served so often in this country, in 
which cream abounds, are rare in France, also in the southern 
part of the continent. Indeed, except, perhaps, among a cer- 
tain class in Russia, there is no country where food supplies 
are generally so lavishly used as in the United States. 

The foundation of hot puddings is liquid and some starchy 
material, as rice, tapioca, cornstarch, cereal, breadcrumbs, 
etc., etc. The foundation of most cold puddings is the same; 
or, instead of the starchy principle, gelatine is used to give 
consistency. To any pudding, hot or cold, eggs may be added 
for lightness or to increase the consistency or food value ; fruit 
or its equivalent for flavor, suet (in hot) butter or cream for 
richness ; and in cold puddings cream is also used for lightness. 
Two ounces of starchy material or one oimce of gelatine will 
thicken a pint of liquid. 

STARCHY MATERIALS 

Cornstarch, rice, tapioca (minute, quick cooking and 
** tapioca exotique "), macaroni, and breadcrumbs (stale bread 
passed through a colander) are the principal starchy ingred- 
ients in puddings. Tapioca is stirred into the hot liquid and 
is cooked when it becomes transparent. 

If grains be used, the pudding is cooked when the grains 
are tender. If arrowroot, cornstarch, rice-flour, etc., are used, 
these, mixed smoothly with milk or evenly with sugar, need 
be cooked in the hot liquid until they clear from the sides 
of the saucepan. Cooked less, though they may jelly when 
cold, they have an uncooked pasty taste. These puddings, 
though often cooked in the oven, will be smoother and require 






RAISINS AND CURRANTS 495 

less attention, if they be cooked in a double-boiler and then 
turned into a buttered baking-dish and set into the oven for 
final cooking. ^ 

GBLATINB 

The gelatines on the market at the present time are par- 
ticularly good. They are practically odorless when heated; 
if not select a different brand. The granulated gelatines, 
which may be easily and accurately measured, soften in cold 
water very quickly and may then be dissolved in a little hot 
water or in the hot mixture. In cold weather gelatine dishes 
will set in half an hour if exposed to the outer air; in summer 
ice is essential to quick process. 

CHOCOLATE 

The judicious use of chocolate changes many an otherwise 
homely and unappetizing dessert into a bonne bouche desired 
by every one. 

Chocolate for use in cooking is bought in half-pound cakes 
scored in eight bars or squares, each one of which represents 
an ounce. Vanilla and cinnamon are the two flavors that 
best harmonize with chocolate. Stick cinnamon, scalded 
in the milk, and used as the foundation of any dish in which 
chocolate is to be used, insures an added richness and spiciness 
of flavor that is invariably commended. Ground cinnamon 
is often more convenient, but in either case let it be of the 
best grade. Currant jelly, apricot marmalade, nuts, and 
candied fruits, steeped in wine, are palatable additions to any 
dish in which chocolate appears. To use chocolate, put it in 
a saucepan over hot water, and when melted add a table- 
spoonful or more of sugar and two or three of boiling water, 
and stir and boil until a smooth glossy liquid is formed, then 
add to hot milk or other ingredients. 

RAISINS AND CURRANTS 

Raisins may be stoned with a utensil made for the purpose, 
or with a pair of scissors. They stone more easily after soak- 
ing in water a few moments. Sultanas are without seeds and 
excellent in flavor, 



496 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PLAVORIKG 

Extracts and wines used for flavoring, whenever possible, 
should be added to the preparation after it has been cooked 
and become cOldi Flavdrt may be considered as luxuries, 
but used occasionally they afford pleasure aild a simple means 
of varying an oftentimes monotonous dietary. Only extracts 
made from fruits and nuts, or the real vanilla bean, should be 
used. All others are harmful. Select the goods of reliable 
and well ktiown manufacturers, and use no others. The 
vanilla bean is sometimes used instead of the extract. Part of 
a bean is scalded in the liquid to be flavored, then dried and 
kept for future use. But as the drying needs be done thor- 
oughly and with care, lest the bean become sour and mouldy, 
and as Uniformity in flavor is not readily secured, the va& of 
the bean is not advocated. Lemon, orange, rose, ftnd alttiond 
extracts are made from the corresponding fruits, flower, and 
nut. Lemon and vanilla in combination give a pleasing flavor. 
Orange and almond, or as some say, vanilla and almond pro- 
duce a flavor resembling pistachio nuts. The proportions 
are one-fourth of the latter to three-fourths of the former* 
Cardials as maraschino, curacao and noyau give a delicate and 
pleasing flavor to any dish to which they may be ddded. 
Jamaica rum, sherry, and kirsch of good quality are niuch 
used in cooking. In hot dishes, cooking dissipates the small 
quantity of alcohol which they contain. Of a slightly stim* 
ulating character these are thought to be of use in stimulating 
a sluggish digestion. Mixed with fruit added to ffoeert des- 
serts they keep the fruit from becoming hard and froaen. 
Caramel (see page 33) gives an exceedingly pleasartt and 
agreeable flavor to custards and creams. The intense heat of 
liquid caramel often causes the milk or cream to which it is 
added, even if scalded, to curdle ; when these are to be com- 
bined it is advisable to pour a few spoonfuls of boiling water 
into the caramel and stir until smooth, then pOur this into the 
cream or milk. It is often combined with almonds, giving 
what is called "burnt almond" flavor. Coffee, extract or, 
better still, fresh made coffee, is a common flavorer and is 



i 



LINING OF CHARLOTTE MOULDS 497 

generally acceptable. Here strength should not be sought 
for in long steeping or boiling. (See Coffee Making.) 

LIST OF GARNISHES FOR DESSERTS, ETC. 

Whipped cream. 

Fruit: fresh, purees, compote, canned, or candied, (Maras- 
chino cherries, cooked figs, pruties, faisins, etc.) 

Fruit jellies, cut in figures or chopped. 

Ivory jelly (sweetened cream and gelatine) cut in fanciful 
shapes. 

Angelica, cut in pieces, leaves, stems, etc., (green in color). 

Preserved ginger, whole pieces or slices cut in flgUfeS. 

Preserved chestnuts, whole or in pieces. 

Almonds, pistachio nuts, English walnuts, and pecan nuts. 

LINING OF MOULDS WITH LADY-FINdERS FOR 

CHARLOTTE MOULDS 

Fit a strip of oiled of paraffine paper into the mould length- 
wise, letting the ends hang out over the top; then fit a strip 
into the mould crosswise, letting the ends hang out as before. 
Ascertain the length of the lady-finger needed to come just 
to the top of the mould and trim them all to this length ; put 
the fingers into the mould on the paper with the upper side 
towards the paper. Let the edges of the fingers just meet 
or leave a uniform space between them. Carefully put a 
spoonful of the charlotte mixture at the base of each finger 
to hold it in place; straighten the fingers and fill the mould 
with care. 



CHAPTER XX 

Cold Dessert Dishes 

SYNOPSIS OF CHAPTER 

r Simple ]^!^''*- 
a. Custard Composition. J 

I Starchy addition. Liquid. 
Simple jellies (Fruit juice, wine, etc.). 
6. Gelatine Compositions.] Sponges aellies+ whipped white of egg). 

I Bavaroises (Jellies + whipped creaniT 

1^ eggs occasionally) . 

c. Charlotte Compositions. ( Cake -|- whipped cream. 

(^ Cake -f- sponges or Bavaroises. 

d. Combination of above. 

(?. Syllabubs, Whips, etc. Cream or cream and eggs whipped. 
/. Junkets. Milk thickened with rennet principle. 

CUSTARDS 

Custards are compositions, in which lightly cooked milk 
and eggs .predominate ; in custard of the first quality nothing 
else save sugar, salt, and flavoring is added. In preparations 
of inferior quality starchy materials take the place of a part 
of the eggs. 

TWO FORMS OF CUSTARD 

Custards are of two main characteristics, i. e. : firm or liquid- 
Firm custards are cooked while standing undisturbed in hot 
water ; liquid custards are stirred during the entire process ot 
cooking, the dish holding the ingredients standing meanwhile 
in hot water; in both cases the heat required is lower than 
that of boiling water. Custard is properly cooked when the 
egg is **set" by the heat just enough to insure a smooth, ten- 

498 



J 



LIQUID OR BOILED CUSTARD 499 

der, jelly-like consistency throughout. A custard that 
curdles, or wheys, or is full of holes (either large or small), 
has been cooked at too high a temperature. A firm custard 
is cooked when, on touching the centre, it seems lightly set 
and somewhat firm. All custards become more solid on cool- 
ing. 

PROPORTION OF EGG TO MILK 

The degree of firmness to which a firm custard will set in 
cooking depends upon the proportion of eggs and milk; four 
eggs to a quart of milk, or one to each cup of milk, gives a 
custard of delicate consistency; this custard needs be served 
from the dish or cup in which it is baked. For a custard firm 
enough to turn from a mould the number of eggs needs be 
multiplied by two. Royal custard, which is cut in slices and 
then stamped into figures, for use in consomm^ or other clear 
soup, calls for one egg to each tablespoonful of liquid. Whole 
eggs, whites or yolks of eggs alone, are used in custards, but 
the richest and finest grained custard results, wjien the yolks 
of eggs predominate. A firm custard in which yolks are used 
alone breaks very easily, and it is considered safer, if the 
custard is to be turned from the mould, to bake it in small 
dariole moulds or to include a few whites in the mixture. 
Two yolks count as one egg. In a liquid custard all yolks are 
preferable, unless the whites, beaten until very foamy, be 
added at the last to give a fluffy texture, considered so desir- 
able in some dishes. As eggs are added to custards simply 
for thickening or richness, and not to produce lightness, they 
are beaten but little. 

LIQUID OR BOILED CUSTARD 

I pint of hot milk. 1-3 a cup of sugar. 

3 to six yolks of eggs. i - 2 a tcaspoonful of vanilla. 

1-4 a teaspoon ful of salt. 

Beat the yolks of eggs slightly ; add the sugar and salt and 
beat again ; dilute with a little of the hot milk and, when well 
blended, return the whole to the hot milk and cook and stir 
until the mixture thinly coats the spoon ; then strain at once 



Soo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

into a cold dish. In pfeparitig a liquid custard, a double- 
boiler or its equivalent is a positive necessity, and a fine 
strainer of some kind is essential to nice results. The mixtute 
coats the spoon, when it is at the consistency of honey and 
covers the tip and back of the spoon lightly. Add the flavor- 
ing when the custard is cold. Custard made with three yolks 
to a pint of milk is used as a sauce. More yolks are required 
when the custard is to be served in cups. 

BOILED CUSTARD, NO. 2 

< 

I pint of railk. i-a a cUp of sugar. 

The yolks of three to six eggs. The whites of three eggs. 

I -4 a teaspoonf ul of salt . t - 2 a teaspoonful of vanilla, extract. 

Prepare the custard as above, and, just before removing 
from the fire, fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten until ven' 
foamy, but not dry. Caramel, coffee, and chocolate give 
variety in flavor. 

ENGLISH CREAM (CUSTARD) 

I pint of milk. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

The yolks of two or three eggs, 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

or I whole egg. i-a a teaspoonful of vanilla extrart. 

I teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

Mix the cornstarch with a part of the sugar— the quantity 
of cornstarch may be doubled — and stir into the hot milk; 
stir until the mixture thickens and then, occasionally, for 
fifteen minutes. Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt and 
beat again, then stir into the hot mixture ; let cook a fei» 
moments, stirring constantly, until the egg seems cooked, 
then strain and flavor when cold. Stir occasionally while 
cooling to avoid the formation of a crust. 

ENGLISH CREAM (CUSTARD), KO. a 

(used for filling eclairs, cream cakes and pies) 

1 pint of hot milk. 2 eggs or four yolks of eggs. 

1 - 2 a cup of flour. i -4 a cup of sugar. 

1 - 2 a cup of sugar. i - 2 a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 



ST. HONORS CAKE 501 

Mix or sift together the flour, salt, and half-cup of sugar; 
dilute with the hot milk, then cook and stir over hot water 
until the mixture thickens; then cool, stirring occasionftlly, 
for fifteen minutes; beat the egg^ add the rest of the sugar 
and stir into the hot mixture ; stir until the egg looks cooked, 
then cool and flavor. One-fourth a cup of clear black coffee 
may be substituted for the same quantity of milk, or an 
ounce of chocolate, cooked with two tablespoonfula, each, of 
sugar and water, may be added to the milk. 

ST. HONORS QR^AM (CUSTARD) 

(for USB IN ST. HONORE CAKE, CREAM CAKES, ECLAIRS, ETC, 

I pint of milk. * Grated rind of lemon. 

2-3 a cup of flour. The yolks of six eggs. 

I cup of sugar. The whites of six eggs. 

x^a a teaspoon ful of salt. 

Prepare as English cream No. 9^ adding the grated rind of 
lemon with the flour and the whites of eggs, beaten stiff, at 
the last. 

ST. HONORS CAKE 

Cut out a round of pastry, either chopped or flaky, about 
ten inches in diameter, dispose on a baking-sheet and brush 
over the edge with cold water. Have ready some chou paste. 
(See Eclairs in chapter on Cake.) With a forcing-bag and 
plain tube half an inch in diameter press a circle of chou paste 
upon the edge of the pastry, to form a border ; prick the round 
of pastry with a fork and brush over the chou paste with 
beaten egg. Bake in an oven with strong heat below about 
twenty minutes. Make small round cakes with the rest of 
the paste and bake until they feel light when taken in the 
hand. Boil a cup of sugar and half a cup of water to the crack 
stage (it will be slightly yellow or caramel color), dip the small 
cakes, one by one, into the candy and arrange them symmet* 
rically upon the border of the cake; dip preserved cherries, 
one by one, into the hot candy and dispose on the top of each 
cake. Pill the centre with cold St. Honor^ or frangipani 
cream, piling it high in the centre. Serve very cold. 



V 



S02 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CHOCOLATE CUSTARD WITH SNOW EGGS 

2 ounces of chocolate. The yolks of six eggs. 

3 tablespoonftils of sugar. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

3 tablespoonf uls of boiling water, i - 2 a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

3 cups of hot milk. Lady-fingers. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Snow eggs (page 514). 

Cook the chocolate, sugar, and water until glossy; add to 
the hot milk and finish as in recipe for English cream. Use the 
whites of the eggs for the snow eggs. This may be sensed 
without the lady-fingers in sherbet cups, a snow egg on the 
top of the custard in each cup and the egg sprinkled with 
candied cherries, chopped fine. 

TIPSY PUDDING 

Cut a stale sponge cake in slices and with them line a glass 
serving-dish; sprinkle the slices with Jamaica rum, or with 
sherry or other wine, then spread over them a layer of jam or 
preserved fruit ; add other layers of cake and preserves until 
the dish is full. Pour over the whole a quart of cold, rich, 
boiled custard, flavored with vanilla. Garnish the dish with 
whipped cream, meringue or snow eggs. Often an ounce of 
softened gelatine is dissolved in the hot custard, and the 
layers of cake and preserves are congealed in the custard; 
then the rest of the custard is added without cake and, before 
serving, the cream or meringue is added. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

The whites of five eggs. 1-2 a cup of prune, fig, date or other 

1-2 a cup of sugar. pur6e, or crushed almonds and 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cream of  other nuts, 

tartar. Boiled custard. 

Beat the eggs until foamy; add the cream-of -tartar and 
beat until dry, adding meanwhile the fruit or nuts. The 
fruit should have been fine chopped and cooked to a smooth 
pur6e with a little water. Turn the mixture into a large 
handsome, well-buttered mould and cook in a steamer without 
boiling the water about twenty minutes. The mixture often 



CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PUDDING 503 

rises enormously and the mould needs be very large. When 
cold unmould in a deep dish and surround with a cold boiled 
custard. In cooling, the meringue contracts, and is unmoulded 
easily. The texture is very delicate, and the flavor, produced 
by steaming, is peculiar, but most agreeable. 

FIRM CUSTARDS 
CUP CUSTARDS (SERVED IN BAKING-DISH) 

4 eggs. A grating of nutmeg. 

3-3 a cup of sugar. i quart of milk. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the eggs until the yolks and whites are well-mixed; 
add the sugar, salt, nutmeg, and milk, and stir until the sugar 
is dissolved, then strain into buttered cups or a baking-dish. 
Cook standing on several folds of paper, or on a trivet until 
the centre is firm. 

MAPLE CUSTARD 

6 whole eggs, or three whole eggs i -4 a teaspoonful of salt, 
and six yolks. 3 cups of milk. 

1-2 a cup of heavy maple syrup. 

Make and bake as above. Baked in cups, this custard may 
be turned from the cups when cold. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PUDDING 

3 oimces of chocolate. i quart of milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 7 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of hot water. i cup of sugar. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of ground cin- 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt, 

namon. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Sugar and vanilla for meringue. 

Add the sugar, melted chocolate, hot water, and cinnamon, 
cooked until glossy, to the milk; beat the eggs, omitting the 
whites of three, add the cup of sugar, salt, and vanilla and 
strain into a buttered baking-dish. Bake as usual and cover 
with a meringue made of the whites of the eggs, reserved for 
this purpose, and one-third a cup of powdered sugar. Return 
to the oven for about eight minutes to brown the meringue. 
Serve cold. 



504 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BAKED CUSTARD RENVERSEB OR CREAM VERSAILLES 

r quart of milk. 1-2 a teaapoonful of salt. 

8 eggs, or i-a a cup of sugar. 

4 whole eggs ancj eight yolks. i cup of sugar. 

Cook the cup of sug^r in a small saucepan over a hot fire, 
stirring constantly until the sugar melts and becomes light 
brown in color. The sugar, as it is stirred, will first resemble 
flake tapioca, then gradually melt and become brown. The 
pan needs be lifted occasionally, to prevent burning. As 
soon as the sugar is melted, turn Into a three-pint mould, or 
into two moulds of smaller size. With a towel in both hands 
tip the mould from side to side to coat the inside with the 
caramel. The mould must be handled quickly, as the caramel 
hardens quickly. Set the mould aside, while the custard ia 
prepared. The caramel will crackle, but this is no disadvan- 
tage, and the mould thus prepared may be kept any length of 
time. Prepare the custard as usual and strain into the mould. 
Bake as any custard, on heavy folds of paper, and surround 
with hot water. When cold turn from the mou4d on to the 
serving-dish. The caramel will form a sauce around the cus- 
tard. This is one of the most delicious dishes in a cook's 
repertoire. Two ounces of melted chocolate cooked with a 
little melted sugar and water may be added to the milk oi 
which the custard is made. Or the caramel may be melted 
in a little boiling water and used in the custard, instead o( 
sugar, thus giving caramel custard, 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD 

I cup of chestnut pur^e. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

3 ^ggs- , 4 tablospooijfuls of sugar for 

I cup of milk. meringue. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 

Add the beaten eggs,-^omitting the whites of two, — grad- 
ually, to the chestnut pulp (chestnuts cooked and sifted), also 
the sugar, vanilla, and milk, and bake in a buttered mould. 
M^ke a meringue of the whites of the two eggs, reserved for 
the purpose, and the sugar. Spread over the custard and 



JELLIES 505 

return to the oven to color the meringue. This custard is 
improved by a sprinkling of chopped cherries below the 
meringue. 

CHESTNUT RENVERSEB 

Bake the above mixture in a mould lined with caratnel. (Se^ 
Custard Renversde.) Half a cup of sugar will make caramel 
enough to line a moUld for this custard. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD 

1 pound of grated pineapple. 1 cup of milk. 

I pound of sugar. 3 eggs. 

1-2 a pound of butter. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually, then 
the beaten eggs, the pineapple, previously scalded , and the 
cup of milk. Bake in a moderate oven, either with or without 
a crust. Serve from the dish in which it is baked. 

FRIED CUSTARD 

4 Whole eggs. 6 or eight tnacardotis. 

The yolks of two eggd. 1-2 a cup of candied fruit. 

1-2 a Clip of siigar. i egg and white breadcrurtibs. 

I pint of milk. 

Butter and sugar a dozen moulds having about half the 
height of timbaie moulds. Six-sided moulds are preferable. 
Sprinkle the bottom of the moulds with the fruit, cut in one- 
fourth inch squares and Washed in hot Water, and cover with 
a little powdered macaroons ; strain in a little custard mixture 
made of the other ingredients, Ifet statid a few moments, then 
finish fillitig the moulds. Cook as usual surrounded by hot 
water; when cool unmould, egg-and-breadcrUmb and fry a 
golden color in deep fat. Serve with Bischoff sauce. 

JELLIES 

As simt)le hot puddings are made by thickening hlilk or 
fruit juice with a starchy material, and the more coinplex 
varieties, by Adding eggs, some form of fat, fruit, ahd flavors, 
so simple cold puddings may be prepared in the same way, and 
felso by thickening the liquid with gelatine. When stiff- 



So6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

beaten whites of eggs or cream are added, a spongy texture is 
produced and a more complex pudding results. Thickening 
with a starchy material was taken up under hot puddings, 
and we will consider now the thickening of liquids with gela- 
tine. In desserts, fruit juice, wine or milk are the liquids 
that are to be jellied. When fresh fruits are employed, (i) 
the juice alone may be used and we have simple fruit jellies; 
(2) the juice and pulp, freed from seeds and membrane, are 
used, and the resulting dish is called pain, as with strawberries 
pain de f raises; or (3) juice and whole sections of the same or 
other fruits and nuts may be combined in one dish, and we 
have a macedoine of fruits. 

PROPORTION OF GELATINE TO LIQUID 

It is claimed that two ounces of gelatine, — the quantity 
put up in most packages — will jelly two quarts of liquid, but 
unless one has made sure of this by actual trial of the par- 
ticular brand used, it is safer to allow a little for advertising 
and cut down the quantity one cup. In summer also, when 
comparatively heavy pieces of fruit or other material are to 
be held up in the jelly, allow three pints of liquid to two 
ounces of gelatine. 

TO BRING OUT AND RETAIN FRUIT FLAVORS. ETC. 

More water should form a part of the liquid to be jellied, 
when the juice from which the jelly takes its name, is strong in 
flavor, as in lemon and red raspberry juices. * The character- 
istic flavor of all jellies made of wine or fruit is accentuated or 
brought out more perfectly, if the juice of a lemon be used 
for each quart of jelly. In the same way jellies made from 
many fruit juices are thought to be improved, if -they be 
"pointed" with a tablespoonful or two of wine. With the 
exception of pineapple juice, which contains a vegetable pepsin 
that digests proteid substances, and hence needs be scalded 
before it is combined with milk, eggs, or gelatine, fruit juices 
when avoidable should not be heated, lest their volatile flavor 
and aroma be lost. If gelatine be heated to the boiling point, 
or even near that point, a disagreeable odor and flavor will 



ORANGE JELLY 507 

often be brought out. After having been softened in cold 
water, according to the time noted on the package, dissolve 
by adding it to the hot preparation, or by the addition of a 
little hot water, or by setting the dish in another filled with 
hot water. 

. USES OF FRUIT AND WINE JELLIES 

Besides their use as dessert dishes, served with cream, cus- 
tard or fruit purees, fruit and wine jellies are moulded and 
used with cold desserts in the same manner as aspic jelly is 
moulded and used with entries. 

DOUBLE MOULDING AND UNMOULDING OF JELLIES 

For double moulding and unmoulding of gelatine dishes 
see page 276. Jellies and all cold desserts that are not sur- 
rounded with cream, etc., or garnished in any way, are un- 
moulded on lace paper. These papers may be purchased in 
large or individual sizes. 

RECIPES 

LEMON JELLY 

1 ounce (1-2 a package) of i cup of sugar. 

gelatine. i cup of lemon juice. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 2 cups of boiling water. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, the time required varies 
with the brand, and add the boiling water and the sugar; 
stir until dissolved, and when cool add the lemon juice. 
Strain through a cheesecloth and use as desired. The thin 
yellow rind of the lemon and an inch of cinnamon bark, one 
or both, may be steeped in the boiling water for additional 
flavor. 

ORANGE JELLY 

I ovLTice (1-2 a package) of The juice of one lemon. 

gelatine. i pint of orange juice. 

1-2 3. cup of cold water. i cup of boiling water. 

Prepare as lemon jelly, but strain the liquid before adding 
the orange juice, to retain the little particles of orange pulp. 



So8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

WINE JELlY 

1 o\mce Xi-2 a package of i cup of wine (claret, madeiraj 

gelatine .) sherry or champagne) . 

i-2 a cup of cold water. The juice of one lemon. 

2 cups of boiling water. i cup of sugar. 

Prepare as lemoti jelly. When champagne is used, cut 
down the quantity of boiling water to one clip. Cool the 
liqtiid before the wine is ddded; 

SAUTERNE JELLY 

I ounce of gelatine. 3 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 1 1-2 cups of haut sauleme. 

I 1-2 cups of boiling water. Green color paste. 

I cup of sugar. 

Prepare as lemon jelly; add color paste to secure a very 
delicate tint of green. 

COFFEE JELLY 

I ounce of gelatine. 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 2 cUps of clear, black coffee. 

I cup of boiling water. 

Do not use liquid coffee that has been left standing on the 
groimds. Let the coffee be freshly made. Cereal cofiee 
makes a good jelly and, served with cream^ i^ wholesome for 
children. 

ORANQE JELLY WITH ORANQE SECtlONS (MAGEDOINB 

OF ORANGES) 

Make orange jelly. Set a mould in icfe and water. 
Pour in a little jelly. When set arratige upon it sections of 
orange ftom which the seeds have been removed. Dip other 
sections in liquid jelly and place against the chilled sides of 
the mould. When set add jelly atid sections of- orange, 
alternately, until the mould is filled. When chilled turn from 
the mould and serve. 

MACEJOOlkfe 6P FRUIT AND !*UTS 

Make orange, lemon or wine jelly. Let k feW s|)oonftils 
beconle "set" in the bottom of a mould; Ariange upon this 



i 



ORANGE SECTIONS IN ORANGE JELLV. (See p 



MACEDOISE OP PRUIT AND NUTS. (See pafie 50S.) 



CUSTARD RENVERSEE, BAKED IN SMALL MOULDS- 



RHUBARB JELl^Y AND BANANA CREAM SPQ 

a design with slices of bananas and blanched almonds, halved. 
Cover with jelly ; add figs and dates, cut in small pieces, and 
sHces of blanched almond, alternately, with jelly, until the 
mould is filled. Serve surrounded with a wreath of whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored before whipping. 

IIHU8ARP JPI-JiY 

I pound of rhijbgp*b. Ginger root and lemon ppel. 

I cup of sugar. The juice of one lemon. 

1 cup of water. i oimce of gelatine. 

x-2 a cup of cold water. 

Cut the rhubarb into pieces an inch in length and put into 

agate baking-dish in alternate layers with the sugar; add the 

water, the yellow peel of a lepion, and a piece of ginger root 

and bake until the rhubarb is tender, but not broken. Steep 

the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve by setting in a 

dish of hot water; then strain into the rhubarb, add the lemon 

juice and pour into a mould a little at a time, adding more as 

the preparation stiffens, to avoid the settling of the pieces of 

Thubarb. Preserve^ ginger, sliced thin, and a little ginger 

syrup may take the place of the dry ginger root. This is 

added after the rhubarb is cool^ed. Serve with whipped 

cream. 

RHUBARB JELLY AND BANANA CREAM 

Rhub^.rb jelly as above. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I cup of sifted banana pulp. 1-3 a package of gelatine. 

The juice of one-half a lemon. 1-3 a cup of cold water. 

x-2 SL cup of orange juice. i cup of cream. 

Softeii the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the 
b^ns^n^ pulp, heated to the scalding point ; add the sugar, 
and when qooled the orange and lemon juice. Stir, the dish 
standing pie^pwhile in ice and water, until the mixture begins 
to thicken, then fold in the crearn, beaten stiff. Mould the 
cre^m and jelly in alternate layers. Let each layer become 
^^t, l>ut Bot too solid, before tlie next one is added, If too 
sqlid they will not adhere to each other. The banana mixture 
is a Bavarian cream. (See page ^id.) 



510 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

STRAWBERRY JELLY 

I pint of strawberry juice and pulp. 2-3 a cup of sugar. 
1-3 a two-ounce package of gel- The juice of one lemon, 
atine. 1-3 a cup of cold water. 

Crush the berries and pass them through a fine sieve or 
piece of cheesecloth, thus removing the seeds, which are for 
many people an objectionable feature. Soften the gelatine 
in the cold water and dissolve by setting the dish in hot water; 
add the sugar and when cool the lemon and strawberry juice. 
Mould in a ring mould. Serve with orange sections, freed from 
membrane and skin, or with whipped cream. 

IVORY JELLY 

I otmce of gelatine. 2-3 a cup of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 11-2 cups of double cream. 

I cup of hot milk. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

A few grains of salt. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the hot 
milk; add the salt and sugar and strain. When cool add the 
cream and vanilla and stir, occasionally, imtil the mixture 
begins to thicken, then pour into a mould. Serve with a 
fruit pur6e, chocolate syrup or cream. 

SHERRY WINE JELLY WITH RAISINS 

Make once and a half the recipe for wine jelly, using sherry 
wine ; remove the stems and seeds from half a pound of choice 
imported raisins. If the raisin skins are tough, cook until 
tender in boiling water and drain and dry on a cloth ; then seed 
carefully to preserve the shape. Strain the water, in which 
the raisins were cooked, for the hot water needed in making 
the jelly. Set a mould in ice, pour in a few spoonfuls of the 
liquid and let it become firm ; arrange on this raisins to fonn 
some symmetrical pattern, and put a few drops of the liquid 
about each raisin (this as it becomes set will hold them in 
place) : cover with an half-inch layer of jelly, then when firm 
add more raisins and more jelly, in layers, tmtil the mould is 
filled. Serve garnished with whipped cream and cubes of 
jelly moulded without the raisins. 



J 



BLANC MANGE jn 

CANNED PEACH JELLY 

1-2 a box of gelatine (i ounce) . The juice of one lemon. 
About three-fourths a cup of 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
sugar. Hot water as needed. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 

Heat the juice from a can of peaches and add the sugar, the 
quantity depending upon the amount used in canning; when 
the sugar is dissolved add the gelatine, softened by standing 
in the cold water, and enough hot water to make three cups 
in all; let cool, then add the lemon juice and brandy. Mould 
the halves of peaches in the liquid. Serve with cream. Apri- 
cots and pears may be prepared in the same way. 

STEWED PIGS WITH JELLY AND CREAM 

z 8 whole figs. The juice of one lemon. 

I cup of liquid. 1-2 a cup of sherry wine or orange 

1-2 an ounce of gelatine. juice. 

1 -4 a cup of cold water. i -4 a cup of powdered sugar. 

z-2 a cup of sugar. i cup of double cream. 

A few drops of vanilla extract. 

Wash the figs and cook, until the skin is tender, in boiling 
water. Drain the figs from the liquid, of which there should 
be one cup. Soften the gelatine in the cold water, and dis- 
solve in the hot liquid; add the sugar, stir until dissolved 
and cooled somewhat, then add the lemon juice and wine and 
strain into a shallow dish. Add the sugar and vanilla to the 
cream and beat until stiff to the bottom of the dish. Dispose 
the figs in the centre of a glass serving-dish and surround with 
the ^whipped cream and the jelly, cut in cubes, alternating the 
crea-m and cubes of jelly. 

BLANC MANGE 

a otinces of sweet almonds. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

6 hitter almonds. 1-2 a two-ounce package of gelatine. 

T cup of hot milk. i cup of cream. 

I pint of milk. 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

Blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste with the 
va.nilla; pour over them the cup of hot milk and let stand an 



ilt PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

hour, then pass through a very fine sieve or a piece of 
cheese-cloth. Soften the gelatine in half a cup of milk from 
. the pint; scald the rest of the milk and in it dissolve the 
gelatine and sugar ; then strain over the almond milk, let cool, 
and add the cream and more flavoring if needed. Stir until 
beginning to set, then turn into a mould. 

QRANQB CREAM 

1-2 a cup of orange juice. 1-4 a two ounce package of gelatine. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

The yolks of two eggs. i 1-2 cups of cream. 

I r4 a 'cup of sugar . Grating of orange rind . 

Heat the orange juice and half a cup of sugar over hot water; 
.beat the yolks of eggs, add the rest of the sugar and stir and 
cook in the hot mixture, until the spoon is coated with fP' 
tftrd; add the gelatine, softened in the colcf water, and strain 
into the cream ; add a grating of yellow orange rind, or a few 
slices of candied peel, or a teaspoonful of orange extract, and 
stir over ice water until the mixture begins to stiffen, thea turn 
into a mould. ^ 

CASTELLANS PUDDINO 

I pound of French chestnuts. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

1 pup of sugar. 2 ounces pf gelatine. 

1-2 a pup of water. i cup of cold water. 

I quart of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 

The yolks of eight eggs. 1-2 a pound of French fruit. 

Maraschino 

3hell, blanch and cook the chestnuts, then pound in a mor- 
tar with the sugar and water, cookecj together five minutes, 
and pass through a sieve. Make a boiled custard with the 
milk, yolks of eggs, and the half-cup of sugar, add the gelatine, 
softened in the cold water, and strain intq the qhestnut mix- 
ture. Set into a pan of ice water and beat with a whisk, 
until the mixture begins to set. Let the fruit, half a cup of 
vanilla-chestnuts, pineapple, cherries, etc., all cut in small 
pieces, stand some time covered with maraschino. Wbeti the 
n^ixture begins to set, drain the fruit ai>d put into a moul4 



STRAWBERRY SPONGE, (See pa«e , 



EASTER PUDDING. 



EHUBARB JELLY AND BANAXA CREA^f. tS»e para s 



STRAWBERRY SPONGE 



S^^ 



alternately, with the chestnut preparation. Let stand until 
very cold and set. Serve with, whole chestnuts, cooked in 
syrup and flavored with vanilla. This amount will serve 
eighteen people. 

FRUIT SPONGES (FRUIT AND WINE JELLIES, BEATEN 

EGGS) 

GRAPE SPONGE 

1-2 an ounce of gelatine, or 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

1-4 a package. The juice of one lemon. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. The whites of three eggs. 

I cup of grape juice. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve by standing 
the dish in hot water. Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice 
and strain the gelatine into the mixture. Set into ice and 
water and stir occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken ; 
then add, gradually, the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, and beat until the whole is very light and stiff enough 
to hold its shape. Pile lightly in a glass serving-dish, and 
serve very cold with whipped cream, sweetened before whip- 
ping. Or the sponge may be moulded and when turned 
from the mould served with whipped cream or boiled custard. 
Strawberry, raspberry, or lemon juice, are good substitutes 
for the grape juice. 

STRAWBERRY SPONGE 



J- a an ounce of gelatine, or 
1-4 a package. 
1-4 a cup of cold water. 
1-4 a cup of hot water. 



I cup of sugar. 

The juice of one lemon. 

I cup of strawberry juice and pulp. 

The whites of three eggs. 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the hot 
water; add the sugar, stir until dissolved, then strain into a 
dish standing in ice water; when cool add the strawberry juice 
and beat until light, then beat in, gradually, the whites of the 
eggs, beaten light, and continue beating until the mixture 
will hold its shape. Have ready a chilled earthen or agate- 
ware bowl, lined with strawberries (cut the berries in halves 



514 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and dip them in melted gelatine, and they will adhere to the 
bowl) and turn the sponge into the bowl. Serve, turned from 
the bowl and garnished with whipped cream and whole straw- 
berries. 

HAMBURG CREAM, WITH WHIPPED CREAM, ETC. 

The grated rind and juice of two 1-4 a package of gelatine. 

large lemons. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

I cup of sugar. Whipped cream. 

8 eggs. Candied cherries. 

Heat the lemon juice and half the sugar over hot water; 
beat the yolks of the eggs and add the other half of the sugar; 
stir and cook the eggs and sugar in the lemon juice and sugar 
until thick, add the gelatine, softened in the cold water, and 
when again hot fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten dry; 
let stand a moment to cook the whites, then turn into a border 
mould. When cold unmould and fill the centre with whipped 
cream. Garnish with a few cherries. This dish is often 
served in glasses. In this case gelatine is not used. 

SNOW EGGS 

Take as many ounces of sugar as whites of eggs (two level 
tablespoonfuls of sugar make an ounce). Beat the whites 
until nearly dry, then continue beating, adding the sugar 
meanwhile, until half has been used; beat until the mixture is 
very firm, then gently fold in the other half of the sugar. Dip 
a tablespoon in boiling water, then fill it with meringue and 
shape and round the mixture in such a manner that there 
shall be as much meringue above as below the level of the 
spoon. Remove the mixture to a saucepan of gently boiling 
water, and let stand where the water will keep hot, but not 
boil, and poach the eggs until firm throughout, turning oc- 
casionally. It will take from six to ten, possibly fourteen, 
minutes to poach each egg. Remove with a skimmer and 
drain on a cloth, spread over a sieve. Snow eggs may be 
poached in milk, and the milk be used afterwards in making 
a custard. 



J 



EASTER PUDDING 515 

COLD SPONGY MIXTURES WITH STARCH 
PRUNE BLANC-MANGE (PHILADELPHIA) 

(for use at restaurant, school or store) 

3 pounds of prunes. i - 2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

6 ounces of cornstarch (three- The juice of two lemons. 
foiui;hs a package) . The whites of six eggs. 

12 ounces of sugar (one and one-half cups) 

Wash the prunes thoroughly and let soak over night in 
two or three quarts of water. Let simmer in the same water 
until soft. Mix together thoroughly the cornstarch, sugar, 
and salt; then add the hot prune juice, of which there should 
be three pints, and stir constantly, until the mixture thickens 
and reaches the boiling point; then let cook over hot water 
one hour, stirring occasionally. Stone the prunes and pass 
them through a coarse sieve; add to the cornstarch mixture 
with the lemon juice, and, when thoroughly heated, fold in 
the whites of the eggs, beaten until foamy, but not dry. 
Mould in cups, and serve very cold with cream. 

REBECCA PUDDING 

I quart of milk. The whites of three eggs. 

1-2 a cup of cornstarch. i cup of cocoanut, or 

1-4 a cup of sugar. i cup of chopped almonds, or 

I -2 a teaspoonful of salt. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract . 

Scald the milk; mix the cornstarch with milk to pour and 
stir into the hot milk; add the sugar and cook fifteen minutes, 
tlien, before folding in the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, 
add the almonds, cocoanut or vanilla. Turn into a mould, 
rinsed in cold water, and set aside to become chilled and firm. 
Serve with currant jelly, cream and sugar, or with a boiled 
custard. 

EASTER PUDDING 

Mould Rebecca pudding in a mould having a flat top. 
Mould blue violets in lemon or wine jelly, selecting a mould 
that will give a shape suitable to place upon the fiat top of 
tlie form of Rebecca pudding. When cold and ready to serve 
txnmould the pudding and place the jelly above it. Garnish 



Si6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the dish with violets, fresh or candied, and serve with cream 
and sugar, or boiled custard. 

RICE PUDDING (GRECIAN STYLE) 

1-4 a cup of rice. 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3-4 a cup of milk. 

Piece of cinnamon bark. The yolks of four eggs. 

3 cups of milk. 1-2 a cup ol sugar. 

Blanch the rice and steam with the salt, cinnamon, and 
milk until tender; dilute the cornstarch with the milk and 
stir through the hot rice with a fork; let cook ten minutes 
and add the yolks, beaten with the sugar; let cook imtil the 
egg is set; remove the cinnamon and serve very cold. This 
pudding may be turned into a buttered pudding-dish and 
finished with a meringue, made of the whites of two or more 
eggs and twice as many tablespoonfuls of sugar as whites of 
egg. Beat the egg whites until very foamy, then beat in 
gradually half of the sugar; continue the beating until the 
mixture is very dry and glossy, then fold in the other half of 
the sugar. 

GELATINE DISHES WITH WHIPPED CREAM, ETC. 

BAVARIAN CREAM 

Bavarian creams or Bavaroises are complex preparations 
considered to be among the finest products of the culinary art. 
They are produced by combining fruit juice, or some flavored 
liquid, as coffee or milk, with caramel or chocolate, gelatine 
and sugar with whipped cream, in such a manner that the 
fluflpy texture of the cream is retained. When the creams are 
made of milk, flavored with nuts, coflFee, chocolate, etc., yolks 
of eggs are usually employed to enrich and, in connection 
with the gelatine, to thicken the mixture. Yolks of eggs are 
not usually added to creams made of fruit juices. While this 
is the general rule, eggs may be introduced into a fruit Bava- 
roise and omitted from that prepared with milk. The com- 
bination of eggs with fruit is a French custom which has not, 
as yet, obtained to any extent in this country. 



J 



CARAMEL BAVARIAN CREAM 517 

VANILLA BAVARIAN CREAM 

1-4 a cup of cold water or milk 1-4 a package of gelatine. ^^ > 

2 cups of single cream, or 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

I cup of double cream and two The yolks of two eggs, 

cups of milk. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Whip the cream, or cream and milk, and drain the whip. 
Scald three-fourths a cup of the cream that is drained from the 
whip (add milk if needed to make the full amount) with half a 
cup of sugar; add the yolks of eggs, beaten and mixed with 
the rest of the sugar and a few grains of salt, and cook in the 
hot cream as a boiled custard; when the liquid will coat the 
spoon, remove from the fire, add the gelatine, soaked in the 
cold water or milk, and strain. Set into a dish of ice and 
water and stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then fold 
in the froth from the cream and the ^flavoring extract. Two 
tablespoonfuls of rum or sherry wine may be used with 01 
without the vanilla. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Omit the vanilla and soften the gelatine in one-fourth a cup 
of clear black coffee, instead of the water; or steep one-fourth 
a cup of ground coffee in the cream that is drained from the 
-whipped cream, strain and use three-fourths a cup as in 
vanilla Bavarian cream. 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Melt two ounces of chocolate over hot water and stir and 
cook until glossy with one-fourth a cup, each, of sugar and 
l>oiling water, then add to the three-fourths a cup of milk 
a.nd proceed as in vanilla Bavarian cream. Serve with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored before whipping, or with apri- 
cot sauce. Candied fruit, cut fine and served with the cream, 
is an addition to this dish. 

CARAMEL BAVARIAN CREAM 

Cook three-fourths a cup of sugar to the caramel stage, 
SLiidL dissolve in the hot milk (see page 496). Add one-fourth 
a, cup of sugar with the yolks of the eggs to the milk, in which 
-ttie caramel has been dissolved. 



5i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BURNT ALMOND BAVARIAN CREAM 

Brown one cup of almonds, blanched and chopped, in the 
oven and pound them in a mortar with the caramel (see page 
^^)\ then add the whole to the hot milk and proceed as in 
caramel Bavarian cream. Garnish with whipped cream and 
candied cherries. 

GINGER BAVARIAN CREAM 

Add one cup of preserved ginger, chopped fine and moistened 
with two tablespoonfuls of sherry wine and a little of the 
ginger syrup, to the custard after it has been strained. Use 
four yolks of eggs. 

MAPLE BAVARIAN CREAM 

I cup of maple sugar. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

The yolks of four eggs. The whip from three cups of cream. 

1-4 a box of gelatine. 

Scald the maple syrup and pour in a fine stream over the 
beaten yolks of eggs, stirring constantly, meanwhile. Return 
the mixture to a double-boiler and cook, stirring constantly, 
until the mixture will coat the spoon ; add the gelatine softened 
in the cold water; stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
fold in the froth from the cream. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM 

1-2 a package of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. i cup of sugar. 

1 pint of grated pineapple. The whip from three cups of cream. 

Soften the gelatine in cold water and scald the pineapple 
(juice and pulp) with the sugar. Less sugar will be required 
(one-half a cup), if canned pineapple be used. Add the 
gelatine, dissolved by standing in hot water and strained 
through a cheesecloth, and the lemon juice. Set the mixture 
in ice water and stir until it begins to thicken, then add part 
of the whip from the cream and with a perforated spoon beat 
the cream evenly into the gelatine mixture ; then add the rest 
of the wliip, part at a time, and fold into the gelatine and first 
part of the cream. When the mixture is chilled enough to 



APRICOT BAVARIAN CREAM WITH SNOW EGt 



PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM, (Seepages 



PISTACHIO-AND-STRAWBERRY BAVAROISE 3^9 

hold its shape, turn into a mould. If preferred the scalded 
pineapple may be pressed through a cheesecloth, to remove 
bits of pulp. This dish is especially pretty when moulded in 
a cylindrical mould. When unmoulded place a few blossoms 
of Narcissus in the centre and surround the base with grated 
pineapple, cooked with sugar and lemon juice. 

APRICOT BAVARIAlJ CREAM WITH SNOW EGGS 

1-4 a package of gelatine. The whip from two cups of cream'. 

I -4 a cup of cold water. Snow eggs. 

I cup of apricot pur^e. The whites of three eggs. 

The juice of one-half a lemon, 1-3 a cup of powdered sugar. 

3-4 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water ana dissolve by setting 
the dish in hot water; strain into the apricot purde, — cooked 
apricots pressed through a sieve — and add the sugar and 
lemon juice ; stir until the sugar is dissolved, then set into ice 
water, and stir until the mixture begins to thicken ; then add 
the whip from the cream as above. Prepare the snow eggs 
as in the recipe (page 514), moulding them in after-dinner 
coffee spoons. Dispose the "eggs" and the slices, or quar- 
ters, of cooked apricots, alternately, on the outside of the 
mould, holding them in place with the Bavarian mixture. 
Also make alternate layers of this mixture. Serve turned 
from the mould on to a plate covered with a lace paper. 
Whipped cream flavored to taste, or a compote of apricots, 
may be served apart, if desired. 

PISTACHIO-AND-STRAWBERRY BAVAROISE 

Strawberry Bavaroise. Pistachio Bavaroise 

1-4 a package of gelatine. 1-4 a package of gelatine. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

I cup of strawberry pulp and i cup of milk. 

juice. 2 ounces of crushed pistachio nuts. 

The juice of one-half a lemon. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. Green color paste. 
Rose color paste, if needed. 

The whip from three and one-half cups of cream 

Prepare the two creams as in the preceding recipes, dividing 
the whip from the cream equally, then put by spoonfuls, to 



520 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

produce a variegated appearance, into a mould decorated with 
strawberries, cut in halves, and blanched and crushed pis- 
tachio nuts. If the pistachio nuts be finely crushed in the 
mortar, the decoration will resemble green moss. In making 
the pistachio cream, scald the crushed nuts in the cream, 
then remove or not by straining, as desired. 

RASPBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

€ -4 a package of gelatine Garnish : 

1-4 a cup of raspberry Juice. The froth from one-half a cup of 

The juice of one-half a lemon. double cream and one cup of 

I cup of raspberry juice. milk. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. Sauteme to flavor. 

I 1-2 cups of double cream. Green color paste. 

Soften the gelatine in the fourth a cup of raspberry juice 
and dissolve by setting in hot water, then proceed as usual, 
beating the cream until solid to the bottom of the bowl. Tins 
gives a very rich dessert. In the garnish use only enough 
color paste to tint the cream a very delicate shade of green. 

RICE BAVARIAN CREAM WITH PRUNES 

1-4 a cup of rice. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

I 1-2 cups of milk. i pint of cream. 

1-2 a cup of milk. 18 cooked prunes. 

The yolks of three eggs. The juice of one-half a lemon. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls of sherr>' wine. 

1-2 an ounce of gelatine. Garnish of cooked prunes. 

Blanch the rice, then cook in the cup and a half of milk 
until tender. Make a boiled custard with the half-cup of 
milk, the yolks and the sugar; add the gelatine, softened in the 
cold water, and strain over the rice. Stir over ice water until 
the mixture begins to thicken, then fold in the prunes, sifted 
or stoned and cut in pieces, as pleases, the cream, beaten 
solid, and the lemon juice, also wine, if used. Serve sur- 
rounded with cooked prunes. This is particularly good when 
preserved pineapple, cut in small pieces, is used in place of 
the prunes. If a white dessert be preferred, omit the custard, 
making the rice moist with an equivalent of milk or cream- 
Omit the prunes and serve the dish with sliced oranges, or 
orange jelly, cut in cubes. 



J 



BURNT-ALMOND CHARLOTTE RUSSE s^i 

COLD CHARLOTTES 

Cold charlottes differ from hot charlottes in that whipped 
cream enters into their composition. There is usually an 
outer case or covering and a centre of Bavarian cream, ivory 
jelly, or simply whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, or 
whipped cream with whipped whites of eggs. When the 
case is made of lady-fingers, narrow slices of cake, iced alter- 
nately in different colors, macaroons, gauffres, wafers, etc., 
the name Charlotte Russe is applied to the dessert. When 
the case is made of fruits, or wine jelly, holding strawberries, 
sections of orange, or other fruit, a macedoine or Celestine 
charlotte results. When the charlottes have an outer case 
(a compound cream lining), with a different colored cream or 
fruit centre, a Charlotte k Surprise is produced. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 
INDIVIDUAL STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Dip the edge of macaroon drops into sugar cooked to the 
caramel stage and kept liquid over hot water. Press the 
macaroons together to form a ring about a cup. Remove 
the ring from the cup to a plate, and in the same manner add 
other rings to form a basket, holding each macaroon in place 
an instant while tl)e caramel is hardening. Put macaroons 
together with caramel over an oiled cup or mould to form a 
handle and fasten this in place with caramel. Fill the basket 
with douj^le cream, sweetened and beaten until solid, and 
fresh strawberries. These should not stand very long after 
being filled; they should be set in place upon individual plates 
before being filled with the cream. If a macaroon base be 
■desired for the baskets, fashion that first, then add macaroons 
dipped in caramel, one after another, as in making a burr bas- 
ket. 

BURNT-ALMOND CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Dip the ends of almond wafers (see page 450) in caramel 
and then in chopped and browned almonds; dry and dip the 
side of one wafer after another into the caramel and fasten 



S2i iPRACTlCAL COOKING AND SERVING 

one to another around an oiled mould. Mould a burnt-almond 
Bavarian cream in a mould a little smaller than the wafer case. 
When ready to serve, remove the cream from the mould and 
place the wafer case over it. Decorate with whipped cream, 
piling it high above the Bavarian cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH QUINCES (CHARLES H. KING) 

Tie a strip of sponge cake about a mould. Dip macaroons 
in caramel and press over the cake. These will hold the 
cake in place and the string may be removed. Dip the ends 
of lady-fingers in caramel, set on top, and tie. Place the case 
on the serving-dish and line throughout with vanilla Bavarian 
cream ; fill the centre with preserved quinces and cover with 
Bavarian cream. In filling the case, the fruit needs to be put 
in as the case is lined to keep the lining from falling inward. 
Decorate the top with double cream, sweetened, flavored, and 
beaten solid. Fresh peaches, sliced, or strawberries may take 
the place of the quinces. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH SALPICON OF FRUIT 

(individual recipe) 

I -a a cup of double cream. i tablespoonful of wine, or 

I -2 a cup of milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract 

I teaspoonful of granulated Lady-fingers. 

gelatine. Whipped cream. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 1-4 a cup of sugar (scant) . 

Garnish: stoned and skinned white grapes, Maraschino cherries, 

syrup. 

Stir the cream and milk together, whip and drain; soften the 
gelatine in the cold water and dissolve over hot water; add 
the wine or vanilla and pour over the cream; add the sugar 
(sugar syrup is better) and set the pan into ice water; turn the 
pan in one direction and stir in the opposite direction until 
the mixture thickens, then turn into a mould lined with lady- 
fingers. When ready to serve, turn the charlotte from the 
mould, first dipping it into warm water and making sure that 
the mixture does not adhere to the edge of the mould at any 
point. Garnish with a little whipped cream, using the pastry- 
bag and tube, and surround with the grapes and cherries, 



.•^4.-.^ -i. 



RICE BAVARIAN CREAM WITH PRUNES. (See page smO 



INDIVIDUAL STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH SALPICON OF FRUI 



J 



INDIVIDUAL MAPLE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 523 

mixed with the sugar syrup and a little of the syjup from the 
cherries. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Fill a mould lined with lady-fingers with chocolate Bavarian 
cream, made either with or without eggs. Garnish with 
sweetened and flavored whipped cream — using a pastry-bag 
and tube — and candied cherries. 

BANANA CANTALOPE (CHARLOTTE RUSSE) 

1-2 a package of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. i cup of banana pulp. 

I cup of cold milk. The whip from three cups of cream. 

The yolks of four eggs. Lady-fingers. 

I cup of sugar. Pistachio nuts or candied plums. 

Scald the milk with part of the sugar; beat the egg yolks, 
add the rest of the sugar and a few grains of salt ; pour the hot 
milk upon the eggs and sugar, mix thoroughly, return to the 
boiler, and cook until the mixture thickens slightly ; add the 
softened gelatine and strain over the banana pur^e (bananas, 
with skin and coarse threads removed and pressed through a 
sieve or vegetable ricer), and return the sauce-pan to the hot 
water to scald the banana; then remove from the fire, add the 
lemon juice and stir over ice water; when cool and beginning 
to thicken fold in the whip from the cream. When stiff enough 
to hold its shape, turn into a melon mould lined throughout 
with lady-fingers. These may be trimmed to fit into the 
spaces of the mould. When ready to serve, turn from the 
mould, brush the outside with white of egg, slightly beaten, 
and sprinkle thickly with blanched pistachio nuts, or candied 
green grapes or plums, chopped fine. 

INDIVIDUAL MAPLE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Paper cases, or souffle dishes, lined with angel lady-fingers 
(cut in suitable pieces), filled with maple Bavarian cream 
and ornamented with whipped cream, make a pleasing change 
from the ordinary charlotte russe. 



S24 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING (NO GELATINE) 

I pint of cream. 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

The whites of two eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of wine, or 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract, or both. 

Beat the cream until stiff to the bottom of the bowl, or use 
the drained froth from thin cream beaten with a whip chum. 
Beat the whites of the eggs until dry, then gradually beat in 
half the sugar and fold in the other half; add the extract, or 
wine, and combine with the cream, cutting and folding the 
two mixtures together. Use for filling cases that are not to be 
unmoulded. This is one of the best of fillings for a bombe 
glac6 or other frozen mixture. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING (NO GELATINE OR EGGS) 

I cup of double cream. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla, or 

1-4 a cup of powdered sugar i tablespoonful of wine, or both, 

(scant) . 

Mix all the ingredients and beat until thick to the bottom 
of the bowl. This filling may be used in cases that are to be 
unmoulded, but it is generally preferred when the charlotte 
is to be served in a paper or other case, or in a cup. 

CHARTREUSE OF CHESTNUTS (CHARLOTTE RUSSE) 

I cup of chestnut pulp. 1-3 a cup of French candied fruit 
I cup of sugar. cut in bits. 

1-3 a cup of water. Vanilla or wine. 

1-4 a box of gelatine. Charlotte Bavarian cream. 

I -4 a cup of cold water. Whipped cream. 

I cup of cream. Candied chestnuts. 

Lady-fingers 

Shell, blanch, and cook in milk large chestnuts enough to 
yield a cup of puree. They will pass through the sieve more 
easily when hot. Cook the sugar and water until a thread is 
formed. Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve 
in the hot syrup, then strain into the chestnut pulp; beat 
together thoroughly, add the fruit and flavoring, and stir 
over ice water until it begins to set, then fold in the cup of 
cream, beaten stiff. Line a melon or other fanciful-shaped 



WINE SYLLABUB 525 

mould, set in ice water, with lady-fingers, then with chocolate 
Bavarian cream ; fill the centre with the chestnut cream, cover 
with chocolate cream, and let stand until the mixture is well 
set. Serve turned onto a lace paper, or surrounded with 
whipped cream and candied chestnuts. 

CHESTNUT CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

I cup of chestnut pur6e. The yolks of four eggs. 

I cup of sugar. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

1-3 a cup of water. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I ounce of gelatine. 1-2 a cup of candied fruit. 

1-3 a cup of cold water. 1-4 a cup of wine. 

The whip from three cups of Lady-finger meringues, 

single cream. i cup of milk. 

Make a boiled custard of the milk, yolks of eggs, half cup of 
sugar, and salt; add the gelatine softened in the cold water 
and gradually mix into the chestnut pur^e, diluted with the 
sugar and water cooked to a syrup ; add the wine and fruit 
and stir over ice water until the mixture begins to set, then 
fold in the whip from the cream and turn into mould lined 
with meringues shaped like lady-fingers. Cut the meringues 
into triangular shape and fit into the bottom of the mould, 
first lining it with paper. Leave a narrow, but uniform, 
space between the meringues. 

SYLLABUBS, WHIPS, JUNKETS, DEVONSHIRE CREAMS, 

ETC. 

If you will but speak the word, I will make you a good Syllabub, 
and then you may sit down in a Hay-Cock and eat it. — Izaak Walton. 

The foundation of these idyllic dishes, the names of which 

head this division of the dessert service, is cream or rich milk, 

preferably milk fresh drawn. The cream or milk is variously 

modified with spice and wine, brandy or cider. Lemon juice 

s usually added to accentuate the flavor of the whole. 

WINE SYLLABUB 

I pint of cream. i cup of Sherry, Madeira or port. 

The juice of one lemon. A grating of nutmeg or a sprink- 

3-4 a cup of sugar (scant) . ling of ground cinnamon . 



526 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mix the sugar with the lemon juice and wine and when 
dissolved add the cream and whip to a froth. If a whip 
chum be used, drain the froth. Serve very cold in glasses. 
Some authorities dispose a wine-soaked bit of cake in the bot- 
tom of the glass before the cream is put in. 

LEMON SYLLABUB 

I pint of double erf am. i cup of sugar. 

The juice of five lemons. i cup of sweet wine. 

The grated rind of one lemon. 

Mix the sugar and lemon juice and, when the sugar is dis- 
solved, add the wine and cream and whip the whole to a 
froth. Drain if needed. Let stand some hours. Serve verv' 
cold. 

ROYAL CREAM WHIP 

I pint of double cream. 3-4 a cup of sugar (scant). 

I 1-2 cups of grape juice. The whites of two eggs. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until foamy, add the fruit juice 
mixed with the sugar, and lastly the cream, then beat with a 
whip chum. Take off the froth as it rises and drain on a sieve. 
Pour the unwhipped mixture into handsome glasses, pile the 
whip on top and serve icy cold. Strawberr}'- or red raspberry 
juice may take the place of the grape juice. 

PUREE OF CHESTNUTS WITH WHIPPED CREAM AND 

FRUITS 

I pint of double cream. i pint of chestnut pur6e. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a cup of syrup at 35°. 

I cup of candied fruit soaked in A few grains of salt, 

wine and drained. Flavoring (wine or vanilla). 

Use the wine, in which the fruit has steeped, to flavor the 
cream; add this with the sugar to the cream and whip the 
whole very light. Blanch and cook chestnuts to yield a pint 
of pulp when passed through a sieve or ricer; beat with the 
syrup until light and fluffy; if not moist enough, add a little 
cream or milk. Dispose the cream in a mound in the centre of 
the dish after first beating in the fruit, then press the pur^ 
around it, using a sieve or vegetable ricer — the ricer will give 
the prettiest effect. If preferred, the fruit may be stirred intq 



J 



DEVONSHIRE JUNKET 527 

the chestnut purde, and disposed in a mound on the serving- 
dish; then cover with whipped cream, and pipe cream upon 
the mound to form some pattern. Garnish with candied 
chestnuts or fruit. 

JUNKET 

Junket is another old-fashioned dish, which has lately had 
a renascence. The characteristic texture of the dish is 
occasioned by the action of rennet upon milk. Formerly a 
piece of the inner lining of a calf's stomach, prepared by clean- 
ing and salting, was laid in the "blood-warm" milk (about 
98° Fahr.) to produce a jellied state. If too much or too 
little rennet were used, the result was unsatisfactory, and the 
exact quantity required was a rather nice matter to determine. 
The renascence of this simple dainty is largely due to the 
fact that the rennet principle can now be purchased in the 
form of tablets (junket), one of which is the exact quantity 
required for one quart of milk. Thus the success of the dish 
is assured, provided always that the milk be at the proper 
temperature when the tablet is incorporated. 

PLAIN JUNKET (CURDS AND WHEY) 

2 to 4 teaspoonfuls of rum, brandy i quart of rich milk. 

or wine, or i junket tablet. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla. Powdered sugar and cinnamon. 

Crush the junket tablet and dissolve in one tablespoonful 
of cold water. Heat the milk and sugar, stirring constantly, 
until it reaches 100° Fahr. ; add the flavoring and the dissolved 
tablet and stir until evenly mixed, then turn into a serving- 
dish, or preferably into sherbet cups. Let the preparation 
stand in a warm room until it becomes jelly-like, then without 
jarring set aside in a cool place. Just before serving sprinkle 
the top with powdered sugar and cinnamon mixed. When 
the dish is leveled with a spoon, as in eating, or if it be broken 
in moving, the curd and whey separate somewhat. 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET 

Prepare as plain junket, and just before serving cover the 
top with Devonshire cream, then sprinkle with the sugar and 



528 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cinnamon as before. Whipped cream is sometimes substi- 
tuted for Devonshire cream. 

DEVONSHIRE CREAM 

Let a pan of milk, fresh-drawn from the cow, stand in a 
cool place from twelve to twenty-four hours, then set over 
the fire and let come very slowly to the scalding point without 
boiling. Remove to a cool place for six to twelve hours; 
then skim off the cream, which will be qtiite firm and of a 
peculiarly sweet flavor. 

IB 

VARIATIONS OP PLAIN JUNKET 

One ounce of chocolate, melted and cooked until smooth 
and glossy with two or three tablespoonfuls of boiUng water, 
added to the milk for a plain junket, gives a chocolate junket. 
Cook the sugar to caramel, dissolve in hot water, and add to 
the milk, for caramel junket. When richness is required, as 
for convalescents and sometimes for children, add the beaten 
yolks of two or three eggs, mixed with sugar, to the milk and 
make "snow eggs" of the whites. Serve a snow egg on the 
top of each glass. If plain junket be prepared in a large dish, 
on serving pour around each service a pur6e of fruit (orange, 
banana, pineapple, etc.), chocolate sauce or syrup, coffee 
sauce, etc. 



J 



2. Meal or flour. 



CHAPTER XXI • 

Hot Puddings, etc. 

SYNOPSIS OP CHAPTER 

a. Hot puddings thickened with previously cooked \ Baked, 
ingredients. ^ Steamed. 

b. Hot puddings thickened with uncooked ingredients: 
I. Grains. 

{Steamed. 
Baked. 
Fried. 

I Cooked flour. {Souffl6s. 

c. Omelets. 

A. HOT PUDDINGS THICKENED WITH COOKED 

INGREDIENTS 

As A RULE, puddings in which previously cooked ingredients 
are used require but little cooking, and that at a low temper- 
ature; especially is this true when eggs are employed. The 
cooking of steamed puddings needs be continuous, and boiling 
water must be used to replenish the supply as needed. If a 
steam-kettle be not available, a saucepan tightly covered will 
answer the purpose, if the mould containing the pudding be 
set on- a trivet (a dozen nails will do), to allow the passage of 
water between it and the bottom of the saucepan. 

When grains are used for thickening, the pudding should 
be stirred several times during the first part of the cooking, 
lest the grains settle and form a heavy pasty mass in the bot- 

529 



530 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

torn of the vessel. Often the grains may be cooked to advan- 
tage in a double boiler, then, after the other ingredients have 
been added, the cooking may be finished in the oven. 

BROWN BETTY 

1-2 a cup of melted butter. The juice of one lemon or orange. 

I quart of breadcrumbs (centre Enough water to make half a cup 

of loaf) . with the fruit juice 

Nearly one quart of sliced apples Sugar. 

(pared and cored) . Grating of lemon or orange rind. 

Put the crumbs moistened with butter into a baking-dish 
in layers alternately with the apple, making the last layer of 
crumbs, and sprinkle each layer of apple with the fruit juice, 
water, and sugar. Bake about an hour. Let the dish be 
covered during the first part of the baking. Occasionally 
substitute sliced rhubarb for the apple. A few stoned raisins 
will improve the latter dish. 

MOCK INDIAN PUDDING (MRS. MILLER) 

Cut stale bread in half-inch slices and remove the crusts. 
Butter the bread on both sides, pile the slices together, and 
cut in cubes. To each cup of cubes — well pressed down- 
use one pint of milk, a scant half a cup of molasses, and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish, in a 
very moderate o-ven, from two to three hours. Serve hot with 
or without cream. 

THANKSGIVING PUDDING 

I 1-2 cups of cracker-crumbs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon, 

I cup of sugar. i pound of raisins 

1-2 a cup of molasses. 6 eggs. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 5 cups of milk. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of mace. 1-4 a cup of butter. 

Scald the milk and pour over the cracker-crumbs and but- 
ter; let stand a few moments, then add the molasses and 
spices, the eggs beaten with the sugar, &nd the raisins stoned. 
Bake in a moderate oven about four hours. Stir several 
times during the first hour, to keep the raisins from settling to 
the bottom of the dish, 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS 531 

CRACKER RAISIN PUDDING (NEW HAMPSHIRE) 

6 Boston crackers. 2-3 a cup of sugar. 

Butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of seeded raisins. A grating of nutmeg. 

' 3 eggs. 5 cups of milk. 

Split the crackers, spread with butter, and dispose in a 
buttered baking-dish with the raisins; beat the eggs, add the 
sugar, salt, nutmeg, and milk, and pour over the crackers; 
let stand half an hour, then bake slowly until the centre is 
firm. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

ST. DAVID'S PUDDING (MARIETTA MCPHERSON) 

6 apples. I- 2 a poimd of almonds. 

I cup of water. 1-2 a cup of butter. 

I -2 a cup of sugar. i -4 a cup of sherry. 

I 1-2 cups of macaroon crumbs. Salt to taste. 

Pare and core the apples, then cut them into eighths. Cook 
the apples until tender, but not broken, in the sugar and 
water, heated to the boiling point. Shell, blanch, and shred 
the almonds. Melt the butter and stir into it the macaroon 
crumbs. Butter a baking-dish and in it dispose the crumbs, 
apples, and almonds, in alternate layers. Pour over the re- 
maining syrup and the sherry, and bake in a slow oven three 
hours. Peaches may be substituted for the apples. The 
pudding when baked should be of a rich, dark-red color. 

QUEEN OP PUDDINGS 

I quart of milk. The yolks of four eggs. 

I pint of grated breadcrumbs. Currant or other jelly. 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

Grated rind and juice of i lemon. The whites of four eggs. 

For a change add two ounces of melted chocolate, one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of cinnamon, and one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla extract, in place of the grated rind and 
lemon juice. '^ 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar, grated rind, and 
-juice, then the milk, and pour over the bread-crumbs; let 
stand about half an hour, then bake tmtil firm in the centre; 



532 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

spread with jelly or strawbeny preserves, and cover with a 
meringue made of the half-cup of sugar and the whites of 
the eggs. Return to the oven about eight minutes, to brown 
the meringue. Serve hot or cold. 

CUBAN PUDDING 

I - a a pound of dry spon ge cake . 4 eggs. 

1-2 a pound of grated cocoanut. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

I pint of milk. Preserved ginger. 

Press the cake through a sieve and add the cocoanut; beat 
the eggs slightly, add the sugar, and then, gradually, the hot 
milk, and pour the whole over the cake and cocoanut. Deco- 
rate the bottom and sides of a well-buttered mould with about 
two ounces of preserved ginger. Put the cake mixture into 
the mould, cover, and steam about an hour and a half. Serve 
the pudding with the syrup from the ginger jar. heated and 
poured over it. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING (A LA DAVID HARUM) 

I cup of scalded milk. 1-3 a teaspoonful, each, of cloves 
I pint of bread-crumbs. and mace. 

3-4 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a pound of raisins. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a pound of currants. 

The yolks of four eggs. 1-2 a cup of almonds. 
I teaspoonful of cinnamon and 1-2 a pound of suet, 

nutmeg. The whites of four eggs. 

Pour the scalded milk over the crumbs taken from the 
centre of a stale loaf of bread ; when cool, add the sugar, salt, 
and yolks of eggs, beaten together, then the chopped suet, 
mixed with the blanched and chopped almonds, the seeded 
raisins, and the cleaned currants; lastly add the spices and the 
whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Serve with hard sauce, or with 
any liquid wine or fruit pudding sauce. In the illustration the 
pudding is served with whipped cream, sprinkled with grated 
maple sugar. 

For a change chopped dates or figs are particularly good 
in place of the currants or raisins. 






CABINET PUDDING 533 



VITOS PUDDING 

1 cup of vitos. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 cups of milk (scalded) . r i teaspoonful of soda. 
1-2 a cup of molasses. i teaspoonful of salt. 
2 eggs. I cup of dates. 

Stir the vitos (any other wheat breakfast food may be sub- 
stituted) into the scalded milk and let cook until the mixture 
thickens, then remove from the fire, add the molasses, butter, 
soda, salt, and dates, stoned and cut in pieces, and, lastly, 
whej;i cooled somewhat, the eggs, beaten light without separat- 
ing. Turn into a buttered mould and steam three hours. 
Serve with hard or liquid pudding sauce. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING 

1-2 a pound (i cup) of sugar. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

1-2 a pound (i cup) of butter. 1-2 a cup of brandy. 

I pound of sifted potato (sweet) . 1-2 a cup of rose-water. 

4 eggs beaten without separating. Cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the cooked 
potatoes, sifted, the eggs, beaten to a froth, and the other 
ingredients with spices to taste. Bake in a pudding-dish, 
lined with puff paste. Serve hot with a pudding sauce. 

CABINET PUDDING 

I cup of fruit, currants, chopped i quart of milk. 

citron and raisins. 4 eggs. 

Cinnamon and cloves (ground) Salt. 

at discretion. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Slices of sponge cake. 

Butter a three-pint brick mould, sprinkle the bottom of the 
mould with fruit, and then add slices of stale sponge cake, and 
spices, if desired. Alternate these layers until the mould is 
filled. Beat the eggs, add the salt, the milk, and the melted 
butter, and pour over the ingredients into the mould. Let 
stand one hour. Steam one hour and a half. Serve hot with 
wine or custard sauce, or with currant jelly. 



534 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



STEAMED BERRY PUDDING 

1 cup of milk. I cup of huckleberries or 

2 ^ggs. cranberries. 
Rolled crackers or sifted graham i tablespoonful of salt. 

bread . i - 2 a cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Beat the eggs and add the milk with the salt and sugar. 
Stir in the berries and enough crumbs to make a drop batter. 
Steam one hour. Serve with pudding sauce. About one 
pound of bread-crumbs will be needed. 

CHESTNUT CROQUETTES 

Remove .the shells, and blanch the chestnuts, then cook 
until tender in plenty of water; drain and pass through a sieve; 
sweeten to taste with sugar and water, boiled to a thick syrup 
(a cup of sugar boiled with half a cup of water will be a gen- 
erous quantity for a quart of the sifted chestnuts), flavor wittv 
vanilla, and add the beaten yolks of three eggs to a quart of 
pulp, and also a little salt. When cold enough to handle 
shape into croquettes (a pear shape is appropriate), egg and 
bread-crumb, finish with a stem of angelica root, and fry iu 
deep fat. Serve on a folded napkin with Sabayon sauce in a 
dish apart. 

CUMBERLAND PUDDING 

6 ounces of stale bread-crumbs. 6 ounces of sugar. 

6 ounces of currants. 4 ounces of citron. 

6 ounces of suet. 6 eggs. 

6 oimces of apples. The grated rind and juice of one 

I teaspoonful of salt. orange. 

Pass the suet, apples, pared and cored, and the citron 
through the food-chopper together; add the currants, salt, 
sugar, and bread-crumbs (centre of loaf passed through a 
colander), also when thoroughly mixed the beaten yolks of 



CHERRY PUDDING 535 

the eggs, diluted with the grated rind and juice of the orange ; 
lastly, add the stiff-beaten whites of the eggs. Steam four to 
six hours in a two-quart mould ; two brick ice cream moulds, 
each holding a quart, give puddings good shape for serving. 
Serve with lemon, wine, or hard sauce. 

APPLB-AND-BROWN BREAD PUDDING 

I pint of brown bread-crumbs. 2 tablespoon fuls of flour. 

2-3 a cup of suet (fine chopped) . i egg. 

I pint of apple, chopped fine. i cup of milk. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a teaspoonful of ginger or 

I cup of raisins. other spice. 

Mix the crumbs and suet and add the apple, salt, and raisins, 
dredged with the flour and the spice. Beat the egg, add the 
milk, and stir into the dry ingredients. Steam two hours in 
a buttered mould. Serve with hard, lemon, or other liquid 
pudding sauce. 

a. HOT PUDDINGS THICKENED WITH UNCOOKED 

INGREDIENTS 

ENGLISH PUDDING 

1-2 a cup of butter. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of stoned and cut raisins. 1-4 a teaspoonful of cloves. 
I cup of molasses. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

I cup of milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of mace. 

3 1-2 cups of flour. 

Cream the butter and add the fruit, the molasses, milk, 
and flour sifted with soda, spices, and a few grains of salt; 
mix thoroughly and steam in a buttered mould about three 
hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1-2 a cup of milk. The whites of three eggs. 

2 cups of flour. I cup of stoned cherries. 



536 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar, and alternately 
the milk and flour sifted with the salt and baking-powder, 
and lastly the cherries and whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Steam 
in a buttered pudding-dish about an hour and a half. Serve 
with a sauce, made of the cherry juice and sugar thickened 
with arrowroot. 

FRUIT PUDDING 

2 cups of entire wheat flour. i teaspoonful of flavoring ex- 

I - 2 a teaspoonful of salt . tract . 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

1-4 a cup of granulated sugar. 3-4 a cup of fruit (currants, sul- 

I egg, tanas, citron, chopped figs. 

1-2 a cup of milk. dates or prunes). 

Sift together the first four ingredients. Beat the egg, add 
the milk and the extract, and stir into the dry ingredients; 
then add the melted butter and the fruit, either one variety 
or a combination. Steam one hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

CARROT PUDDING (ELLEN M. CHANDLER) 

I poimd of carrots. i teaspoonful of ground cinna 

I pound of suet. mon. 

I cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

I 1-2 cups of flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of ground 

1 teaspoonful of salt. cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 1-2 a pound of currants. 

1-2 a pound of raisins. 

Weigh the carrots, after peeling and grating. Mix the suet, 
chopped fine, with the fruit, and then with the carrots; then 
add the baking-powder, spices, and flour, sifted together. 
Steam in a mould three hours and a half. Serve with a wine 
sauce. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDPINQ 

6 tart apples. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I cup of tapioca. i teaspoonful of cinnamon, or 
I quart of boiling water. the juice and grated rind of 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. one lemon. 



BAKED TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH FRUIT 537 

Sprinkle the tapioca and salt into the boiling water, and 
cook, stirring occasionally, until the tapioca becomes trans- 
parent. Core and pare the apples and dispose in a buttered 
baking-dish ; fill the cavities with the sugar and spice, mixed 
together, and pour the tapioca over the whole. Let bake 
slowly until the apples are tender. Stewed prunes, peeled 
bananas, cooked bag figs and peaches, fresh or canned, may 
be prepared in a similar manner. A layer of fruit, then a 
layer of tapioca, furnishes a satisfactory way of disposing the 
ingredients. Serve hot with cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

I pint of hot milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-3 a cup of tapioca. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

The yolks of two eggs. The whites of two eggs. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 

Stir the tapioca into the milk and let cook until transparent ; 
beat the yolks, add the sugar and salt and beat again, then 
stir into the tapioca ; add the extract and fold into the whites 
of the eggs, beaten until dry. Serve hot or cold. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD PUDDING 

4 cups of hot milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

3-4 a cup of tapioca. i tablespoonful of btitter. 

3 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 

1 cup of sugar. 

Cook the tapioca, until transparent, in the hot milk. Beat 
the eggs slightly'; add the sugar and salt and stir into the 
tapioca ; stir in also the butter and vanilla ; turn into a but- 
tered baking-dish and bake about thirty minutes, in a slow 
oven. Serve hot or cold. 

BAKED TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH FRUIT 

I quart of milk. 2 eggs. 

I cup of currants, sultanas, 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt, mace 

sliced citron and cherries. and cinnamon. 

3-4 a cup of tapioca. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2-3 a cup of sugar. 



538 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Scald the milk with the fruit and stir into it the tapioca 
and sugar, mixed with the salt and spices ; let cook imtil the 
tapioca is transparent, about ten minutes, then add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs and the butter. Turn into a buttered baking- 
dish and let bake about fifteen minutes. Cover with a me- 
ringue, made of the whites of the eggs, one-fourth a cup of 
sugar and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Return to the oven, 
to brown the meringue. Serve hot or cold. The whites of 
the eggs may be added with the yolks, and the pudding, 
served hot with hard sauce, or a liquid wine sauce. . 

BAKED RICE-AND-MILK PUDDING 

I cup of rice. Cinnamon or nutmeg. 

I cup of sugar. 6 cups of milk. 

I teasp)oonful of salt. 1-2 to one cup of stoned raisins. 

Blanch the rice and turn into a baking-dish ; add the other 
ingredients and bake in a very slow oven three or four hours. 
Stir two or three times, during the first hour, to keep the 
raisins from settling to the bottom. Cover with a buttered 
paper, to keep the top from becoming too brown. If the 
pudding looks at all dry, add another cup of rich milk fifteen or 
twenty minutes before taking from the oven. The grains of 
rice should be whole, each surrounded by a creamy liquid. 

INDIAN TAPIOCA 

1-3 a cup of tapioca. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1-4 a cup of Indian meal. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I quart of scalded milk. i 1-2 cups of cold milk. 

I cup of mola^es. 

Mix together the tapioca and meal and stir while sprinkling 
into the scalded milk. Stir and cook until the tapioca be- 
comes transparent, then stir into the molasses, salt, and but- 
ter, and turn into a buttered baking-dish. Pour over the top 
a cup and a half of cold milk, and set in the oven without stir- 
ring. Bake about an hour. Serve with or without cream. 



J 



AUNT SALLIE'S FLIRTS 539 

INDIAN SUET PUDDING (COLONIAL) 

I quart of hot milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of Indian meal. 1-2 a teaspoonful of ginger. 

I cup of suet, chopped fine. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

I cup of molasses. i pint of cold milk. 

I egg. I cup of cold water. 

Stir the meal into the hot milk and add the other ingre- 
dients except the cold milk and water ; add the egg, well beaten, 
last. Turn into a buttered baking-dish and pour the cold 
milk and water over the top, and, without stirring these in, 
bake very slowly three hours. Serve plain, or with cream 
and sugar. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

I pint of milk, scalded. 1-2 a cup of molasses. 

4 tablespoonfuls of Indian meal. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of cold water. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of ginger. 

^ eggs 1-2 a cup of milk. 

Mix the meal with the cup of cold milk and stir into the hot 
milk; add the other ingredients, except the half a cup of milk. 
Bake in a buttered pudding-dish half an hour, then pour on 
the half-cup of milk and bake without stirring two hours. 

AUNT SALLIE'S FLIRTS (NOODLES) 
I egg. Flour. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Break an egg into a cup, add the salt and quickly stir in 

flour with a spoon, until no more can be easily added. Turn 

onto a floured board and add flour until the mixture is of a 

consistency to roll out. Divide the dough into three pieces 

and roll each thinner, if possible, than paper; cut into squares 

or strips and fry an instant in hot fat. They should be a 

very delicate brown. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and 

serve at once. Two people, one to fry and one to sprinkle 

with sugar, are needed to prepare this dish, as everything 

depends upon quick work. If a larger number of " flirts " be 

required than is provided in the recipe, do not double the 

recipe, mix again. Use but one egg at a time. This in 

reality is noodle paste. 



540 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



STRAWBERRY, BLACKBERRY, PEACH OR ORANGE 

SHORTCAKES 

I 1-2 cups of flour. 1-3 to half a cup of buttef. 

I - 2 a cup of cornstarch . i - 2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

4 level teaspoonfuls of baking- Milk as needed, 
powder. 

Sift together the flour, cornstarch, baking-powder, and salt, 
and work in the butter with a knife, pastry-fork or fingers; 
add milk a little in a place, to mix a rather soft dough. Divide 
the dough in halves, and pat out to fit two tins; or bake in one 
tin, one round above the other, first spreading the lower round 
generously with butter. Bake separately, if needed, and 
butter the cakes. Put together with fruit mixed with sugar. 
Garnish with cream and fruit. Two baskets of strawberries 
or raspberries, or other fruit in the same proportion, are re- 
quired. 

BANANA SHORTCAKE 

1-3 a cup of butter. 2 1-2 teaspoonfuls (level) of 

1 cup of sugar. baking-powder. 

2 eggs. 4 bananas. 
1-2 a cup of milk. Cream filling. 
I 3-4 cups of flour. Meringue. 

Mix in the same manner as a cake. Bake in a square layer 
cake-pan. When baked, dispose on the top peeled bananas, 
cut in halves lengthwise; cover with thick custard filling 
(English cream) and meringue. Brown delicately in the oven 
(it should take about six minutes) and serve with hot jelly 
sauce. The whites of three eggs and one-third a cup of sugar 
will make the meringue. Put in place, with a pastry-bag and 
tube, directly over the halves of banana, thus marking the 
cake into divisions for cutting. 

GERMAN PUFFS 

1-2 a cup of butter. 2 cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

The yolks of three eggs. 2 level teaspoonfuls of cream-of- 

I cup of milk. tartar. 



HOT CABI\ET PUDDING WITH JELLY. (S« page S33.) 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. (Sec pi 



PINEAPPLE OMELET. (See paRO 



FRITTERS 54J 

Mix in the same manner as a cake. Bake in a well-buttered 

and heated muffin-pan about twenty minutes. Serve with 

Sabayon sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of milk. 

• 1-2 a cup of sugar. ' i 1-2 cups of flour. *- ^ / 

I egg, well beaten. '-' 2 1-2 teaspoonfuls of baking- ^/ 

powder. 

Mix as a cake and bake in an agate muffin-pan. Serve 
with lemon, wine or strawberry sauce. 

FRITTERS 

Fritters are used as an entree and also as a part of the sweet 
course. The fruit or other article which gives the specific 
name to the fritter is usually cut in slices, dipped into batter, 
and, when well coated, fried in deep fat. Fritters are served 
sprinkled with powdered sugar or with a sauce. To mix 
fritter batter, sift the flour and salt together; make a hollow 
in the centre and break in the eggs unbeaten ; pour in a little 
milk and stir, adding milk gradually as the flour is taken up 
and liquid is needed; when about half of the quantity of milk 
has been added, beat the mixture until it is full of air bubbles, 
then beat in the rest of the milk and let stand an hour before 
xi^ng. Another method of preparing fritter batter is as fol- 
lows: beat the eggs until whites and yolks are well mixed, 
then add the milk and stir together into the flour and salt 
sifted together. A third method is to add the yolks with the 
milk, and the stiff-beaten whites just before using. 

There are several points which it were well to keep in mind 
when mixing batters : 

1. Beat thoroughly, before adding all the liquid, as it is 
difficult to beat a thin batter smooth. 

2 . A batter containing few eggs needs be made thicker with 
flour than one containing more eggs. 

3. If possible a batter should stand at least an hour before 
usin^; several hours in cold weather, or over night, is prefer- 
able. 

4. When the egg is separated and the white is beaten stiff 



542 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

before adding, do not mix with the other ingredients until 
ready to use. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

1 1-3 cups of flour. I egg. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2-3 a cup of milk. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 sour apples. 

Sift together the flour, baking-powder and salt; beat the 
eggs, add the milk and stir into the dry ingredients. Pare, 
core and cut the apples in small pieces and stir into the batter 
after it has stood an hour or more. Drop by spoonfuls into 
deep fat and fry to a delicate brown. Serve as a dessert with 
maraschino or currant jelly sauce. 

SCANDINAVIAN ROSETTES 

Beat four eggs without separating. Add one pint of milk, 
and stir gradually into three cups of flour, sifted with half a 
teaspoonful of salt and two tables poonfuls of sugar. Beat 
very thoroughly, when half the liquid has been added. The 
eggs might be added with half the milk, as all the milk may not 
be needed. Heat the rosette iron in hot fat. Dip into the 
batter to half its height, arid return to the hot fat, until the 
cake is cooked a delicate brown. Shake from the iron on to 
soft paper. Serve, sprinkled with powered sugar, as a dessert 
dish, or spread the rosettes with jam or preserves and ornament 
with whipped cream. The batter should stand an hour after 
being mixed before the rosettes are fried. In winter it may be 
kept for days, and used as occasion requires, either for this or 
other purposes, as to coat quarters of banana for frying. 

GOLDEN BALL FRITTERS (CHOUX PASTE) 

1-2 a cup of boiling water. Grating of lemon rind. 

3 level tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 eggs. 

1-2 a cup of flour. 

Melt the butter in the boiling water, add the flour and cook 
and stir, until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan; add the 
lemon rind and turn into a cold dish, then beat in the eggs one 
at a time, beating the first in very thoroughly before the second 
is added; then drop the dough into hot fat by the teaspoonful. 



i 



COFFEE SOUFFLE 543 

Stir the fat when the batter is dropped into it, thus causing the 
fritter to take the shape of a ball. Serve hot, rolled in pow- 
dered sugar, or with maple syrup, or common sugar syrup, 
flavored to taste. 

HOT SOUFFLES, OR SOUFFLE PUDDINGS 

Souffles quite generally appear under the list of puddings. 
In reality, if they are to be considered puddings at all, they 
should be classed by themselves, in that they are distinguished 
from ordinary puddings by the fact that raw egg, which re- 
quires little cooking, is added to a foundation that has been 
already well cooked. This foundation is practically an ordi- 
nary sauce like a white sauce. The egg is beaten light and 
folded into the mixture, which is then baked with care, to 
insure a very light texture. Careme advises that souffles be 
made broad, and not high — ^that is, twelve inches by three or 
four ; probably this advice is good as thus less weight is held up 
by the delicate cells. Souffles are successful only when they 
are light and spongy, and fine rather than coarse grained. In 
baking, let the oven be moderately hot. Surround the dish 
by a band of oiled or buttered paper, to afford room for the 
rising of the mixture. Fasten the band together with a drop 
of mucilage or with a pin before the mixture is turned into the 
souffle dish. The different varieties of souffles take their 
names from some distinguishing flavor or ingredient (see also 
Fish and Meat Souffles, under the chapter on Entries). 

COFFEE SOUFFLE (MARIETTA McPHERSON) 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-8 a teaspoonful of salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. The yolks of three eggs. 

I cup of black coffee. The whites of three eggs. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 

Make a sauce of the first three ingredients-^i. e., melt the 
butter, and in it cook the flour until frothy, then add the 
cofS^e gradually and stir until thick and smooth. Remove 
from the fire, add the sugar, salt, and yolks of eggs, beaten 
until thick and smooth. Remove from the fire, add the sugar, 
salt, and yolks of eggs, beaten until thick; fold in the whites of 
the eggs, beaten very stiff, pour the mixture into a buttered 



S44 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

baking-dish, and bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve with coffee sauce. 

CUSTARD SOUFFLE 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. The yolks of four eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. The whites of four eggs, 

I cup of milk. 1-8 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. 

Prepare as cofSee souffle. Serve with Sabayon, creamy or 
strawberry sauce. 

CHERRY SOUFFLE PUDDING 

1-4 a cup of butter. 4 ounces or one cup of bread- 

1-2 a cup of flour. crumbs. 

I 1-2 cups of milk. The grated rind of one-half a 

1-2 a cup of cream. lemon. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3 eggs. 

1 -2 a cup of sugar. 6 ounces of stoned cherries. 

Glac^ cherries. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and salt and cook until froth v; 
add the milk and cream gradually, let cook a few moments 
and then add the crumbs, the grated rind and the yolks of 
the eggs, beaten and mixed with the sugar, and lastly the 
stoned cherries and the whites of the eggs, whisked to a stiff 
froth. Turn into a buttered mould, decorated with glace 
cherries, and steam an hour and a half. Turn onto a hot dish 
and serve with wine sauce or a fruit pur^e. This souffle may 
be baked and served from the baking-dish. 

MACAROON SOUFFLE 

I dozen macaroons. French fruit, chopped fixve. 

I cup of milk. Whipped cream. 

3 eggs. 

Scald the macaroons in the milk, pour over the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, and cook over hot water until thickened 
slightly; fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, and bake 
in a buttered mould, set in a pan of hot water, about twenty 
minutes. Turn from the mould, sprinkle the top with the 
fruit, and surround with the whipped cream. 



CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING A LA DAVID HARUM. (See 



UACAROOM SOUFFLE. (See p 



FRYING SCANDINAVIAN ROKETTES 



OMELET SOUFFLE 545 

COCOANUT SOUFFLE (BOSTON COOtCINQ SCHOOL) 

I 1-2 cups of milk. i tablespoonful of butter. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. i cup of cocoanut. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. The whites of four eggs. 

Mix the cornstarch, sugar and cocoanut, and stir into the 
hot milk; let cook ten minutes, stirring occasionally; add the 
butter and fold in the whites of the eggs. Bake in individual 
moulds, buttered and sprinkled with sugar, about twelve 
minutes. Let the moulds stand in a dish of hot water. Turn 
from the moulds, put a spoonful of strawberry jam upon the 
top and pour around the souffles a pint of boiled custard, 
made with the yolks of the eggs. Put the jelly in place on 
serving, to avoid displacement while they are being brought 
to the dining-room. 

SPONdE BATTER PUDDIKG 

I 1-2 cups of hot milk. The yolks of four eggs. 

1-2 a cup of flour. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of cold milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. - 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. The whites of four eggs. 

Stir the flour, salt and cold milk together until smooth, 
then cook in the hot milk ten minutes; add the butter and 
yolks of eggs, beaten with the sugar, and fold in the whites of 
the eggs, beaten stiff. Bake in a well-buttered pudding-dish 
about thirty minutes. The heat of the oven should be mod- 
erate and the dish should stand in hot water during the bak- 
ing (see Soufflds). Serve with Sabayon, wine or creamy 
sauce. 

OMELET SOUFFLE 

5 eggs. The grated rind of one-half a 

3 tablespoonfuls of powdered lemon, 

sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light-colored and thick; 
add the sugar gradually, then the grated rind and lemon juice; 
pour this mixture over the whites of the eggs, beaten with 
the salt until dry, and cut and fold the two together. Turn in- 



546 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

to a buttered baking-dish, or into individual cases, and bake in 
a quick oven until well puffed and of a delicate brown color. 
Serve at once with hard or Sabayon sauce. For directions in 
respect to omelets, see chapter on eggs. 

RUM OMELET 

6 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls of rum or lemon 
3 tablespoonfuls of powdered juice and water. 

sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of hot Jamaica rum. 

Prepare and cook as any omelet (see chapter on eggs), 
letting the omelet be rather underdone. Turn onto a sermg- 
dish, pour over the rum, light and send to the table while 
burning. 

PINEAPPLE OMELET 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 5 eggs. 

I cup of grated pineapple. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cook the flour and salt in the bubbling butter; add the 
pineapple (juice and pulp) gradually, the sugar and the lemon 
juice and let cook ten minutes, then remove from the fire and 
stir into the yolks of the eggs, beaten very light ; fold in the 
whites of the eggs, beaten dry, and turn into the fr\^ing-pan, 
in which the butter is melted. Cook as a puffy omelet, turn 
onto the serving-dish and sift powdered sugar thickly over the 
top. Score diagonally with a hot iron. Serve surrounded 
with a second cup of grated pineapple^ cooked with one- 
fourth a cup of sugar, to which a tablespoonful of lemon juice 
has been added, to bring out the flavor of the pineapple. If 
preferred, garnish with quarter slices of pineapple, saturated 
with hot syrup and flavored to taste. Rum is considered the 
proper flavor. Oranges, strawberries or raspberries may 
take the place of the pineapple, and any one of these may be 
added to a plain French or puffy omelet. In using berries 
as a garnish, mix with powdered sugar; if raspberry seeds be 
objectionable, crush the berries and press through a sieve, 
then mix with sugar. Oranges should be sliced. 



. OMELET S47 

OMELET WITH STRAWBERRY JAM AND CHERRIES 

3 eggs. I tatlespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of maraschino. Strawberry jam. 

1-3 a cup of maraschino cherries. Cherries and maraschino. 

Beat the yolks very light and add the maraschino and the 
cherries cut in pieces ; fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten dry, 
and turn into a hot omelet pan, in which the butter has been 
melted. Spread the mixture evenly and let cook a moment on 
the cover, to set the eggs, then put into the oven until cooked. 
A knife cut down into the centre of the omelet will indicate 
this; the egg needs be set, but only lightly. Score the omelet 
at right angles to the handle of the pan, spread one-half 
lightly with the jam, turn on to the serving-dish and surround 
with a narrow wreath of jam, diluted with maraschino from 
the cherry bottle, and cherries. 



CHAPTER XXII 

Sweet Sauceis 

dYMOPStS OF CHAPTbR 



Swfeet Satires. 



f Sauces thickened with staxxjhy materials. 
Liquid. <^ Sauces thickened with egg emulsion. 
I t'ruit jiiice sauces. 



{ 



^ ,.^ . Hard. 
Solid, i 

Fruit jellies. 



Sauces for sweet dishes may bfe considered as solid or liquid. 
The solid sauces include "hard sauce," so called, and the 
various fruit jellies. The liquid sauces make up the larger 
division, and may be subdivided according to the material that 
gives them consistency, as a starchy material, egg emulsion, 
sugar syrup alone, or sugar in conjunction with a fruit puree. 
Sauces served with ices are given under the subject of frozen 
desserts. 

SAUCES THICKENED WITH STARCHY MATERIAL 

All sauces of this description may be made with white roux 
as described on page 22. By preference, however, the starchy 
ingredient, flour, cornstarch or arrowroot, is mixed with the 
sugar by sifting, and the grains of starch, thus separated, 
are stirred into a hot liquid, milk, water or fruit juice. Flavor- 
ing is added at pleasure, and a little butter just at the point 
of serving. Starch, here, as always, needs thorough cooking 
to be palatable. Add flavor and butter afterwards. 

MARASCHINO SAUCE 

Sift together one teaspoonful of arrowroot and one-third a 
cup of granulated sugar, pour on two-thirds a cup of boiling 

548* 



J 



TUTTI FRUTTI SAUCE 549 

water and cook five ininutes; ^dd half a tablespoonful of 
butter, one-fourth a cup of inaraschino cherries Q\\t in halves, 
half ^ cup qf m^r^schi^Q syrup, and a teaspoonful of lei^on 
juice. Cornstar<3h or flour may be used, but the arrowroot 
gives a clearer and less opaque sauce Serve with baked 
bwapa^, banana qr ^pple frittere, custard souffle, German 
puff?, or cottage pudding. 

MQCK CREAM 

(to be used in place of cream on pOILED IlICE, PTC.) 

Scald one pint of milk ix\ ^ double-boiler; stir into this two 
teaspoonfuls of cornstarch, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and let cook ten minutes. When cold and ready to 
serve add a teaspoonful of vanilla and the whites of two eggs, 
beaten until frothy. 

BRANDY SAUCE (FQ?l STp^VM^D PUDDINGS) 

Sift together one-fourth a cup of flour and one cup of sugar ; 
stir in a pint of boiling water and let cook fifteen minutes, 
stirring constantly at first, and occasionally afterwards; add 
one-fourth a cup of butter in little bits, beating constantly, 
meanwhile. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla or brandy 
to taste. Brown sug^r gives a diflerently flavored sauce. If 
this be used, m^ke a white roux with the butter and flour, add 
the w^ater and then the sugar and flavoring. 

TUTTI PRUTTI SAUCE (FOR BAKED BANANAS, FRITTERS, 

ETC.) 

Remove the stems from half a cup of sultana raisins and 
wash in cold water; add one-fourth a cup, each, of chopped 
citron and blanched almonds and a cup of boiling water and 
let simmer an hour, or until the raisins are tender. Ten 
minutes before serving, stir in a level teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, sifted with three-fourths a cup of sugar (there should 
now be a generous cup of water with the fruit), and let cook 
six or eight minutes. Add a tablespoonful of butter and lemon 
or vanilla if desired. 



5SO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BANANA SAUCE 

4 ripe bananas. i cup of water. 

3 oranges. 2 level teaspoonfuls of arrow- 

1 tart apple, thin-sliced. root or cornstarch. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 

Pass the pulp of the bananas through a ricer or sieve and 
add the pulp of the oranges, the apple, sliced, and the water; 
when boiling stir in the sugar, thoroughly mixed with the 
cornstarch, and stir until the boiling point is reached, then 
let simmer ten minutes ; strain and serve. 

^ LEMON OR ORANGE SAUCE 

2 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Juice and grated rind of one 
I cup of sugar. lemon or orange. 

1 iji^t of boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

See ' Sauce Thickened with Starchy Materials. " 

ROYAL SAUCE 

2 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch or i - 2 a cup of jelly or jam. 

arrowroot. The juice of one-half a lemon. 

Cold water to pour. i tablcspoonful of brandy at 

I cup of boiling water. discretion. 

Cook the cornstarch, diluted with water, in the boiling 
water five minutes; add the jelly or jam, beaten smooth, and 
let simmer three or four minutes; add sugar, if needed, and 
the lemon juice; strain and serve. 

SAUCES THICKENED VS^ITH EGO EMULSION 

For boiled custard see page 499. 

SABAYON SAUCE (FOR CUSTARD SOUFFLE, COTTAGE 

PUDDING, ETC.) 

In the upper part of a double-boiler put one whole egg and 
two yolks and beat until well mixed ; then add half a cup of 
sugar and beat thoroughly. Set over very hot but not actually 
boiling water and beat while half a cup of sherry wine is 
gradually stirred in. When the sauce has thickened slightly, 
add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and turn into a cold dish to 
arrest the cooking. Serve at once. This is a rich and jnost 



MOUSSELINE SAUCE 551 

delicious sauce. Care needs be taken to avoid curdling the 
egg. Lift the saucepan from the water, occasionally, which 
should not r^ach the boiling point. 

ORANGE SABAYON SAUCE 

In the upper part of a double-boiler cream one-fourth a 
cup of butter; add the yolks of four eggs, one at a time, and 
beat in thoroughly; then add one-fourth a cup of sugar and, 
when all are blended, four tablespoonfuls of cream, and cook 
over hot water, stirring constantly. When thickened slightly 
add one-fourth a cup of orange juice and oiie teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. 

COLD COFFEE SAUCE 

(for coffee souffle, filling for cream puffs, etc.) (Marietta 

McPherson) 
2 eggs. 1-2 a cup of clear, black coffee. 

I -4 a cup of sugar. i - 2 a cup of double cream . 

A few grains of salt. 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar and salt and cook in the coffee 
infusion as a boiled cu§tard. When the mixture coats the 
spoon, strain into a cold dish, and when cold and ready to 
serve fold in the cream beaten stiff. 

COLD CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

(for chocolate, vanilla or custard souffle or other hot 

pudding) 
2 eggs. 1-2 a cup of hot milk. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a cup of double cream. 

1-2 an ounce of chocolate. 1-4 a teaspoonful of ground 

2 tablespoonfuls of hot water. cinnamon. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Melt the chocolate, add a teaspoonful of sugar and the hot 
water, and cook until smooth and glossy ; then add to the milk 
and continue as for cold coffee sauce. 

MOUSSELINE SAUCE (HOT) 

Beat the yolks of five eggs very light ; add one-fourth a cup 
of sugar and one-fourth a cup of maraschino and beat while 
cooking over hot water; when thickened, remove from the fire 
and fold in the whites of two eggs, beaten dry, and reheat, 



552 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

if necessary, to set the white of egg. The sauce should be very 
light like a souffle. Good with any hot pudding. Serve in a 
dish apart. 

COLD MOUSSBUNE SAUCE WITH FRUIT PUREE 

Boil half a cup of water and three-fourths a cup of sugar to 
the thread degree, then stir in a fine stream onto the beaten 
yolks of six eggs, heating constantly meanwhile; add two 
tablespoonfvils of Kirsch and a half a cup of strawberry or 
raspberry pur^e (fresh berries mashed and passed through a 
sieve). Set the dish on ice and stir with a whisk until cold, 
then fold in three-fourths a cup of whipped and drained 
cream and the whites of three eggs, beaten dry. Let stand 
on ice until ready to serve. Suitable for ices and cold pud- 
dings. (This sauce may also be frozen and served as a par- 
fait.) 

CREAMY SAUCE 

Bpil one cup of sugar and half a cup of water to a thick 
syrup (six or eight minutes), and pour in a fine stream onto 
the white of an egg, beaten until foamy but not dry. Set the 
sauce into a dish of ice water and beat until cold, ^en fold in 
a cup of whipped cream\ Flavor to taste. _ 

CREAMY SAUCE, NO. a 
(CHARLOTTE RUSSE CREAM) 

Flavor one pint of double cream with wine or a teaspoonful 
of vanilla and beat solid with a whisk or Dover egg-beater. 
Beat the whites of two eggs until dry ; fold in one cup of pow- 
dered sugar and beat them lightly into the whipped cream. 
Serve very cold with blanc-mange, baked apples, compotes, 
etc. 

LEMON SAUCE 

Cream half a cup of butter, add gradually one cup of pow- 
dered sugar, and beat until light; add the whites of two eggs, 
one at a time, beating steadily. When about ready to serve. 
set the sauce-pan, containing the sauce, in boiling water over 
the fire; add one-fourth a cup of lemon juice and one-fourth a 
cup of boiling water and stir until creamy. Remove to a 



CURRANT JELLY SAUCE SSj 

cooler dish and serve at once. The flavor of lemoh will be 
heightened by grating a little of the yellow riiid into the 
buttef and sugar. 

YELLOW SAUCE 

Beat the yolk of an egg until light, and the white until 
foamy; add half a cup of sugar to the yolk, then fold in the 
white ; add half a teaspoonful of vanilla, and one cup of scalded 
milk; mix thoroughly and serve. 

FROTHY SAUCE 

Cream half a cup of butter and a cup of sugar arid add the 
frothed white of an egg ; stir in half a cup of boiling water, two 
tablecpoonfuls of wine and a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

FRUIT JUICE SAUCE 

Put the fruit in a j at with from half to a whole cup of water 
to a pint of fruit, cover and let stand on a trivet, in a pail of 
water brought slowly to the boiling point, half ah hour or more, 
or until the juice flows freely. Pass through a cheesecloth, 
and thicken one pint of juice with half to a whole cup of sugar 
mixed with one or two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Cook 
from five to ten tninutes, skimming as needed. The sugar 
is often used without the cornstarch. 

COLD STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

Hull, wash, and drain a basket of ripe strawberries and 
press them through a ricer. Boil together three-fourths a 
cup of sugar and half a cup of water ten minutes; let cool, add 
the strawberry pulp and, if desired, half a teaspoonful of va- 
nilla. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Boil together ten minutes half a cup of apricot marmalade, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and four tablespoonfuls of water ; 
add the juice of half a lemon and pour over and around a 
chocolate Bavarian cream or a hot mould of brioche. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE 

Boil one cup of granulated sugar and one-third a cup of 
wat^r, "Without stirring, four or five minutes ; add four (level) 



554 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

tablespoonfuls of currant jelly. As soon as the sauce boils 
again, add the juice of a lemon and strain through a fine sieve. 
If a very fine sauce be desired, add a handful of preserved or 
candied cherries. 

CHERRY SAUCE (HOT OR COLD PUDDINGS) 

Simmer one cup of stoned cherries, one cup of claret, two 
tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, the yellow peel of a lemon, an 
inch of cinnamon bark and one -fourth a cup of sugar, until 
reduced nearly one-half; remove the cinnamon bark and 
lemon peel before serving. 

BANANA PUREE FOR BRIOCHE TIMBALES, ETC. 

Press the pulp of two bananas, the juice and pulp of an 
orange and one-fourth a cup of apricot marmalade through a 
sieve; add one-fourth a cup of sugar and heat over boiling 
water; when thoroughly scalded let cool and, before serving, 
add, at discretion, one tablespoonful, each, of maraschino 
and brandy. Serve with cold or iced desserts. 

COLD ORANGE SAUCE 

I cup of sugar. The juice and pulp of four oranges 

I cup of water. The juice of half a lemon. 

I teaspoonful of gelatine. 1-4 a teaspoonfiil of vanilla ex- 

3 tablespoonfuls of cold water. tract. 

Boil the sugar and water ten minutes; add the gelatine, 
softened in the cold water, let cool and strain into the fruit 
juice; add the extract, or cook a vanilla bean in the syrup. 
Cool before using. 

tiARD SAUCE (FOR HOT PUDDINGS) 

Cream half a cup of butter and add very gradually a cup 
of sugar, beating between each addition; when all the sugar 
has been added and the mixture is very light, add, one by one» 
the whites of two eggs, and when again very light add the 
flavoring drop by drop. A teaspoonful of vanilla, a table- 
spoonful of brandy, rum or wine, or a grating of nutmeg, are 
preferred. The egg whites may be omitted. This sauce may 



MERINGUE SS5 

be shaped in a neat mould on a small choice dish, or it may be 
disposed in a wreath around a dark fruit pudding. Arranged 
in the latter fashion, a silver fork may be used to give a scroll- 
like effect to the surface. 

HARD SAUCE WITH FRUIT 

Prepare as above, using the white of one egg, then beat in 
very gradually one cup of mashed strawberries or raspber- 
ries. The raspberries should be strained, to eliminate the 
seeds. These fruits are favorites, but others may be used. 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

Put half a cup of sugar into a saucepan over the fire, and 
stir the sugar until it melts and becomes of light-brown color; 
add half a cup of boiling water and allow the liquid to simmer 
ten minutes. 

CARAMEL SAUCE, NO. 2 

Boil three-fourths a cup of sugar, an inch of stick cinnamon, 
two cloves, a thin paring of yellow rind of lemon, and a cup of 
boiling water ten minutes; strain over one-fourth a cup of 
sugar, cooked to the caramel degree, let boil two or three 
minutes and then keep hot until the caramel is dissolved. 
Serve, either with or without three tablespoonfuls of sherry, 
with baked custards, cabinet pudding, boiled rice, etc. 

BURNT CREAM SAUCE 

In a small sauce-pan, over the fire, stir half a cup of sugar 
until it becomes a golden-brown caramel; add one pint of 
thin cream and set over hot water until the caramel liquefies. 

MERINGUE (FOR PUDDINGS AND PIES) 

Use two tablespoonfuls of powdered or confectioners* sugar 
for each white of egg, and half a teaspoonful of flavoring ex- 
tract for each four whites of eggs. Beat the whites until stiff, 
but not quite dry — whites of eggs are beaten "dry" when the 
bowl containing them may be inverted without bisturbing 
the contents; beat in gradually one-half of the sugar, and 



^ 



Ss6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

oantintie the beating until the mixttlfd is very firtri fetid glossy; 
then fold in the flavoring and the other half of the sugar. 
The surface upon which the tneringue is to be spread should 
first be cooled somewhat. The meringue tnkj be spread 
evenly, or piled in a dome-shape in the centre. A part of the 
mixture may be reset ved and pUt iti pl^ce with a pastry bag 
and tube. Cook in a moderate oven from eight to twelve 
minutesj according to the thickness of the meringue. 



J 



CHAPTER XXIII 



Fruit, Fresh and Cooked, for Immediate Use 



FRESH FRUIT AND ITS SERVICE 

"If strawberries be not in reason, buy them not at a great price. 
It is neither art nor courtesy to invite your friends to be 'eating money,' 
as the saying is. A guest should be led to think always that her me^l 
t^ted pleasantly, never that its cost was disagreeat)le, " 

AVBRACB CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF PRBSH FRUIT. AS PURGHA6BD. 



(atwater) 



Refuse Water 

Per Per 

cent. cent 

Apples 25.0 63.3 

Apricots 6.0 79-9 

Bananas 35-<> 48-9 

Blackberries . . 86 . 3 

Cherries 5 . p 76.8 

Cranberries. . . 88.9 

Currants 85.0 

Figs 79 . 1 

Gra{>0S 35. p 58.0 

Huckleberries. . 81.9 

LeipoTJS 30. p 63.5 

Muskmelons . . 5P . o 44 . 8 

Oranges 27.0 63.4 

Pears, lo.o 76.0 

Pineapple (edi- 
ble portion) 89 . 3 

Plums 5.P 74.5 

Prunes 5.8 75.6 

Raspberries 

Strax^rberries. . 5.0 85.9 

Watermelons. . 59.4 37.5 



Protein 

Per 

cen(. 



3 
o 

6 

3 
9 

4 

5 

5 
o 

6 

7 

3 
6 

5 



4 
9 
7 

P 

9 





Pat 
Pct 

cent. 



.4 
i.o 

.8 

.6 



1.3 
.6 

.5 

,1 
.4 



.(5 
.1 



Carbo- 

hyarates 

Per 

cent. 

10.8 

12.6 

14.3 
10.9 

159 
9.9 

13.8 

18.8 

14.4 
14.6 

5-9 
4.6 

8.5 
13.7 

9.7 
19. 1 

17.4 

ia.6 
7.P 

^.7 



Ash Fuel Val. 
Per per lb. 

cent. C5alories 



3 

5 
6 

5 
6 

2 

7 
6 

4 
3 

4 

3 

4 
4 

3 
5 
5 

6 

a 

3 



220 

325 
300 

270 

345 
215 

380 

33S 

345 

145 

90 
170 

26P 

3PO 
370 

335 
fS5 

ns 

I4P 



557 



5s8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

DRIED FRUITS 

Carbo- 

Refuse Water Protein Pat hydrates Ash PuelVal. 

Per Per Per Per Per Per per lb 

cent. cent. cent. cerkt> cent. cent. Calories 

Currants 17.2 2.4 17 74-2 4.5 1.495 

Dates 10. o 13.8 1.9 2.5 70.6 1.2 1.450 

Figs 18.8 4.3 .3 74.2 2.4 1475 

Prunes iS-o 19.0 1.8 62.2 2.0 1.190 

Raisins 10. o 13. i 2.3 3.0 68.5 3.1 1.455 

As WILL be seen by a glance at the table showing the com- 
position of various kinds of fruit, the food value of fruit de- 
pends upon the carbohydrates, which is chiefly in the form 
of sugar. In but a few varieties does the proteid principle 
reach one per cent. The date and plantain, of which the 
banana is a variety, contain, however, sufficient nutriment 
to sustain life. But fruit is valuable for other than its nutri- 
tive qualities: eaten freely it introduces large quantities of 
water into the system, as well as salts and organic acids that 
improve the quality of the blood. It also gives a relish to 
plainer foods. The largest use of fruit is with some form of 
starch in sweet dishes, but it is quite as acceptable, after a 
taste for it has been acquired without sugar, with meats. 

PROPER TIME TO EAT FRUIT, DIETETICALLY 

CONSIDERED 

When fruit is eaten uncooked, for special dietetic purposes, 
the effect is always more pronounced if it be taken alone an 
hour before the meal, or between meals. An exception would 
seem wise in the case of berries containing hard seeds; these 
are likely to cause less intestinal irritation when eaten with 
bread or other bulky food. Taken at the close of a meal, the 
water in fruit is liable to interfere with digestion, until such 
time as it can be absorbed by the linings of the stomach. 

The diuretic influence of fruit is in part due to the water m 
composition, but principally to the presence of organic acids 
and salts, which stimulate the circulation of the blood and 
also the action of the kidneys. 

The laxative action of fruits is partly — but not wholly^ 
due to indigestible and irritating substances, as the seeds of 



FRESH FRUIT AT MEALS 559 

figs and berries and the skins of prunes. Children, and older 
people who are not in robust health, need avoid the seeds and 
tough skins even of cooked fruit, nor should they indulge in 
fruit of coarse fibre. 

To be wholesome, fruit needs be ripe, but not overripe. 
As fruit ripens the starch in composition is changed into 
levulose or glucose, substances more assimilable than starch," 
and pectin, a carbohydrate (principle), which occasions the 
jellying of fruit when it is boiled, is formed. The tannin and 
vegetable acids are also changed and the fruit becomes less 
astringent. If fruit be overripe, bacteria, which have already 
begun the tearing-down process, are introduced into the 
alimentary tract, and malfermentation with pain, cramps, 
nausea and other attendant ills, is likely to ensue. 

TO SERVE UNCOOKED FRUIT 

Fruit is most inviting when it is fresh-gathered, or picked 

with the heat of the sun upon it; exception is to be made in 

the case of melons, which are best when thoroughly chilled. 

Green leaves are needed in arranging fruit for the table or 

sideboard. In case the natural leaves of the fruit itself are 

not admissible, grape, currant or laurel leaves may be called 

into requisition. In this connection it might be noticed that 

time was when fruit was made a notable feature in table 

decoration ; but at the present day — save at Thanksgiving or 

harvest spreads — fruit, except, perhaps, a basket of choice 

strawberries, or cherries with blossoms and leaves, seems no 

longer admissible for this purpose. 

FRESH FRUIT AT MEALS 

The English custom is to serve fruit at the close of the break- 
fast, but, dietetically considered, the beginning of the meal is 
preferable in point of propriety. 

Theoretically, acid fruit should not be combined at the same 
meal, with starchy food, for the digestive action of the ptyalin 
of the saliva is inhibited in the presence of an acid. On this 
accourit the sweet fruits, dates, figs and bananas, are to be 
eiven first place as breakfast fruits; while mildly acid fruits, 



^ I 



s6o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pineapples, grapes, peaches, pears, some varieties of apples, 
preferably cooked, sweet oranges and berries are indicated 
as a second choice. Acid fruits should accon^pany meats. 
Fruit is almost universally eaten with sugar, but the combina- 
tion cannot be considered hygienic, being very liable to pro- 
duce malfermentation in the alimentary tract. 

APPLES 

Apples may be polished for table service, but unless cooked , 
they are eaten preferably between meals. The different ways 
in which they may be acceptably cooked for the table is 
almost limitless. 

P£ARS 

Pears may be polished, and when fully ripe, being of finer 
texture than apples, they are more readily digested, and hence 
are better adapted than raw apples to table service. They 
are chiefly valuable on account of their aroma and flavor. 

Sweet oranges are particularly valuable, since they are 
palatable without sugar. Oftentimes in sickness, in case oi 
great gastric irritation, when food is not well borne, the juice of 
a ripe orange will be found very acceptable. In cases of 
flatulency, the juice will be found most agreeable, taken tm- 
diluted and with the avoidance of even a trace of the oil from 
the rind. The oil or zest of both lemons and oranges is found 
entirely in the yellow rind. Even when fresh, this oil, though 
most palatable, will cause eructation from the stomach. This 
fact should be noted most carefully in removing the juice 
of these fruits for jellies or ices. With a spoon or a glass 
lemon squeezer the juice may be extracted without trace of 
the zest. 

WAYS TO SERVE ORANGES 
AT BREAKFAST 

Cut the oranges in halves, crosswise. Half an orange tt 
one service. Serve on a plate with an orange spoon. Pow- 
dered sugar is passed. ' Grape fruit is served in the same way. 



i 

i 



SALPICON OF FRUIT 561 



SECTION OP ORANQB PULP, FREED FROM MEMBRANE 

Peel an orange. With a thin-bladed, sharp knife cut down 
from the surface to the centre at one side of a membrane en- 
closing a section of pulp, then cut down close to the 
pulp, on the other side of the membrane; a third time 
cut down to the centre, close to the next membrane, 
and take out the section of pulp, thus loosened, in one 
piece; then cut down close to the other side of a membrane, 
taking out the pulp as before. So proceed, until ^11 pulp is 
removed, when the whole membrane or framework of the 
orange will be left in one piece. 

SECTIONS OF ORANGE, HELD ON 9AND OP PEEL 

Score the peel of an orange at both ends, so as to leave a 
solid band about an inch wide around the centre, and cut 
away the rest of the peel. Sever the band at the junction of 
two sections, and separate the sections from e^ch other, leav- 
ing all attached to the band. 

ORANGE IN SECTIONS, PE^L RETAINED 

Score the orange in eighths, from the stem nearly to the 
blossom end, and carefully loosen the peel; then loosen the 
sections from one another, without removing them from the 
peel at the blossom end. Serve in this way; or roll inward 
the points of the peel, to fonn a border around the base of the 
fruit. Serve in a fruit dish with other fruit, or on individual 
plates. 

SALPICON OF FRUIT IN GRAPE FRUIT BASKET 

Cut grape fruit in halves. Remove and save the pulp and 
juice, dipc^rding thp fibrous p^rt. With a pinking iron and 
sharp knife decorate the edge of the shells. A ribbon may be 
Tv^xx through the openings, if approved. Avoid open decora- 
tiotus at a distance from the edge, for obvious reasons. Let the 
shells chill on ice, and at serving time fill with the juice and 
pulp c^f the fruit, white grapes, skinned and seeded, and thin 
slices of bananas, chilled and mixe4 with powdered sugar. 



562 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Serve as a first or last course at a formal luncheon. Other 
fruit may be used and the Salpicon may be served in sherbet, 
frapp^ or champagne glasses. Wine may be added at pleasure. 

PINEAPPLES 

The pineapple is the only fruit that is known materially to 
aid digestion. The pineapple contains a principle, vegetable 
pepsin, that digests albuminous substances. When fresh 
juice of the fruit is combined in dishes with milk, eggs or gela- 
tine, the digestive process is at once inaugurated and a bitter- 
tasting dish results. Scalding the juice destroys this digestive 
principle, and should be observed when the juice is to be com- 
bined with such substances. 

But to get the full benefit of the digestive principle, as also 
the antiseptic and germicidal properties of the pineapple juice, 
the fruit needs be eaten fresh and without sugar. Thus taken, 
its beneficial effects can scarcely be overestimated. It is par- 
ticularly useful in all catarrhal conditions of the throat and 
alimentary tract, and is almost a specific in malarial troubles. 
The woody fibre in a perfectly ripe pineapple has become 
softened in the ripening process, but when this condition has 
not been reached the juice only should be ingested. 

PINEAPPLE, SHREDDED 

Remove the tough outer surface of the pineapple, then 
with a silver fork, following the lines made by the bracts, cut 
around the single fruits and remove them, one by one, from the 
hard centre. Sprinkle with sugar if desired. Serve at break- 
fast or luncheon. 

PINEAPPLE AND ORANGES, HXlF FROZEN 

Cut off the top of a large pineapple. Pare away the base 
so that it may stand upright and firm on the plate. With 
knife and strong spoon scoop out the pulp of the apple and 
separate the same from the hard centre. Peel about four 
sweet oranges, slice lengthwise and remove the seeds; mix the 
juice and pulp of the oranges and pineapple with sugar to 
taste; put in a fruit jar with close-fitting cover and pack in 



STRAWBERRIES, FRENCH FASHION 563 

three measures of ice to one of salt ; let stand an hour or more. 
When ready to serve turn the mixture into the chilled shell of 
the pineapple and garnish the base with leaves of the crown. 
Pineapple alone, when a second one will be required, straw- 
berries, bananas, or peaches may be used in the place of the 
oranges. Half a cup of orange, less of lemon juice, is an im- 
provement, when bananas are used. If bananas are not used, 
half a cup or more of Jamaica rum is considered an improve- 
^ ment by many. It is not safe to use any sort of spirits with 
uncooked bananas. 

PEACHES, HALF FROZEN 

Cut very ripe peaches into halves and remove the stones and 
skins; sprinkle with powdered sugar and put into the can of a 
freezer; pack the can in crushed ice without salt, or with very 
little salt, and let stand until the peaches are half frozen. 
Arrange in a glass serving-dish, in the form of a wreath, and 
sprinkle again with sugar. Pile thick cream, sweetened, 
flavored and whipped, in the centre of the dish. 

PEACHES AND GRAPES (FOR INVALID'S TRAY) 

Select large, ripe, juicy peaches and brush the surface of 
each gently with a soft brush, to remove the down. Select 
a bunch of sweet, juicy grapes: if procured at the market, let 
water from the faucet run gently over them a few moments, 
then drain in a cool place. All grapes and berries procured at 
market need be rinsed in water and drained before sending 
to table. 

STRAWBERRIES, FRENCH FASHION 

Select clean, ripe berries. Remove neither hulls nor stems, 
but with soft brush touch the surface of each berry gently, as 
also the sepals on both sides, to remove any sand. Garnish 
with strawberry leaves and blossoms. Serve with a spoonful 
of sifted, powdered sugar, from a separate dish. If the berries 
have not been fresh-gathered, chill before serving. Serve at 
breakfast, or as the first course (appetizer) or last course 
(dessert) of a luncheon. 



564 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MELONS 

Melons, though eaten as fruit, are in reality vegetables. 
They belong to the same family as the squash. Among the 
cliildren of Israel in the wilderness, a cause of murmuring was 
the lack of cucumbers and melons, for which the people longed. 
Indeed, the melon, which is one of the earliest known vege- 
tables, seems always to have been much relished. *'The 
Emperor Frederick, of Germany, and Maximilian II were 
alike so inordinately fond of melons that they both became 
ultimately victims to the passion. " Atwater gives fifty per 
cent, of the muskmelon as waste matter, and of the remaining 
part 44.8 is water, a most grateful contribution to the simimer 
diet. The nutritive value of melons, represented by the sweet 
elements, is very small, but they contain no indigestible fibrous 
matter. The Chinese method of serving melons — that is, 
half frozen — ^is well adapted to bring out their delicacy and 
flavor. Melons are really wholesome only when eaten fresh 
from the vine, after chilling. 

TO SERVE WATERMELONS 

Chill by standing on ice several hours. Cut the ends even, 
that the halves may stand level, then Bend to the table cut in 
halves crosswise, each half resting on a mat of grape or currant 
leaves, With a tablespoon scoop out the red pulp in egg- 
shaped pieces, Serve on chilled plates'. The pulp may also 
be pcoQped out and sent to the table in half of the shell or in 
a handsome dish. The pulp from the whole melon will be 
needed to fill half the shell. 

WATERMELON A LA STEAMER PRISCILLA 

Cut a section, four inches thick, from the centre of a chilled 
watermelon. Separate the green rind, leaving the edible por- 
tion, a round of pink melon pulp; place upon a serving-dish 
of average size. In serving, cut in the same manner as a pie. 

WATERMELON SERVED IN WEDGE-SHAPEP SLICES 

Cut the chilled melon in halves, crosswise. Let each half 
rest on a bed of grape leaves, trimming the melon to rest 



SALPICOM OF FRUIT IN GRAPE FRUIT BASKET. 



WATERMELON IN WEDGE-SHAPED SLICES. 



PINEAPPLE AND STRAWBERRIES IN PINEAPPLE SHELL. 



1C£ CREAM SERVED IN MUSKMELONS J6s 

evenly on the dish. Cut tristngtllat sefctlond from the melon, 
and setve with rind attached. 

MELONS, CHINESE METHOD 

Scoop out the edible pulp with a tablespoon, remove the 
seeds, sprinkle with powdered sugar and ^ated ginger root, 
turn into the can of the freezer and pack in ice and salt. After 
standing tdti minUtes, turn the fcrailk, gently, tor ft few Iho- 
Inetits ; repedt seVetal titnefe. SfetVe h&lf fto^eti. Avoid tuttl^ 
ing ihe crank to ctiish the pulp. 

MELON SALAD (SWEET) 

Cut the edible portion of a chilled tnelon Irito small cdbesj 
or take out the pulp in small pieces With a spdon. Mi^t to- 
gethet half a cup of sugar and a Scknt teaSpOdnful of cinnambrl ; 
sprinkle this over a quatt of melon, toss together atld serVe 
from a salad bowl, or from d bdWl basket, fashioned out of the 
shell from which the pulp Wds taketi; 

SALPICON OF FRUIT IN HALVED MUSKMELONS 

Chill stnall mfelons, cut in halved and teinove seeds, but re- 
tain the pulp intact. Fill with a chilled mixture of sliced 
peaches, shredded pineapple, and sections of orange, removed 
from the membrane and mixed with sugar. 

NUTMBd AND SMALL M^LONd 

Chill thoroughly, cut in halves and remove the seeds. Make 
half a melon each service. Sugar and cinnamon, or paprika 
and salt, may be passed in a glass or silver dredger. 

ICE CREAM SERVED IN MUSKMELONS 

Select melons about the size of a large orange. Cut d 
piece from the top of each to serve as a cover. Pass a short 
piece of narrow ribboh through silts in this and tie in a bow 
upoil the top, as a means of lifting the covet. Remove the 
seeds from the melons and chill thoroughly on ICe. When 
ready to serve, fill the melons with ice cream, and put the 
covefs in place. Ice cream, flavored with lemon and cinna* 



566 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

mon, or with vanilla, and eaten with the pulp of the melon, 
is considered an agreeble combination. The idea dates back 
to the first days of the republic, when ice cream was first made 
in this country. 

CENTREPIECE OF FRUIT FOR THANKSGIVING DINNER 

OR HARVEST FESTIVAL 

Select a golden-colored, medium-sized,' well-shaped pump- 
kin. With a sharp knife fashion into the shape of a basket 
with an old-fashioned tub handle on each side. Carefully 
scoop out the seeds and pulp, leaving a thin shell. Polish the 
rind and line the inside neatly with white paper. The paper 
may be held in place with pins. 

Fill the basket with apples, pears, and grapes of various 
hues. A n;iat of autumn leaves, maple or sumach, gives the 
finishing touch to this table ornament. A fruit basket, fash- 
ioned from a cabbage, is appropriate for halloween. A wooden 
trencher, hand-painted, filled with fruit, is peculiarly adapted 
to this use at Thanksgiving, and a mat, fashioned from stalks 
of ripened grain and bright autumn leaves, can hardly be 
improved upon as a centrepiece for either of these receptacles. 

COOKED FRUITS FOR IMMEDIATE USE 

APPLE SAUCE 

Pare, quarter, and core tart, juicy apples; add a little hot 
water and cook very quickly. When tender, pass through a 
fine colander, add a few grains of salt and sugar, to sweeten to 
taste; let boil, then turn into a glass dish. Serve cold. 

APPLE SAUCE, NO. 2 

Prepare as above, adding the salt and sugar with the water; 
let cook until tender over a hot fire. Serve very cold. 

APPLES, DUCHESS STYLE 

With a vegetable scoop cut out about two dozen balls from 
pared apples. Cook in a cup, each, of sugar and water with 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice until tender, but not broken, 
then drain and roll in melted currant jelly. Cook the trim- 



J 



BLUSHING APPLES WITH ORANGE SAUCE 567 

mings of the apples with one or two apples, cut in quarters, 
in a little water; pass through a sieve and simmer in the 
syrup until quite thick. Dispose the marmalade thus made 
about the balls and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts or 
almonds. 

APPLES IN SYRUP (FOR A GARNISH) 

Make a syrup of a cup, each, of sugar and water. Have 
ready apples cored, pared, and cut in rings ; rub over the rings 
with the cut side of a lemon, to keep them white. Let cook 
in the syrup, two or three pieces at a time, turning often, to 
keep the shape. 

CHANTILLY APPLE SAUCE V\^ITH HORSERADISH 

Cook about five medium-sized apples, pared and cored, in a 
very little water (steaming is preferable, as they should be 
very dry when cooked), pass through a fine sieve, and add to 
the pulp two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and one- 
fourth a cup of fresh-grated horseradish. When mixed 
thoroughly and cold, fold in an equal bulk of whipped cream. 
Serve separately with young ducks or goslings. 

APPLES BAKED WITH ALMONDS 

Core and pare six or eight tart apples; let simmer in a cup, 
each, of sugar and water boiled together two or three minutes 
until nearly tender. Turn the apples often to avoid breaking. 
A little lemon juice added to the syrup will improve the flavor, 
or, if the apples be rubbed with the cut side of a lemon, it will 
help keep them white during the cooking. Set the apples in 
an agate pan, and press into them almonds, blanched and 
split in halves. Dredge with powdered sugar and brown in 
the oven. Serve hot with jelly or whipped cream and the 
cold syrup in which the apples were cooked. 

BLUSHING APPLES V\^ITH ORANGE SAUCE 

Core six red apples and cook, without removing the skins, 
in boiling water until tender. Turn the apples often with a 
skimmer, that they may cook evenly. Remove to a plate, 
carefully take off the skins, and scrape off the red pulp adher- 



^68 PRACtlCAL COOKING AND SERVING 

irtg to the inside of the skins and replace it on opposite sides 
of each apple. Reduce the water to a ctip or less, add a cup 
of sugar and the juice of ati ofange, also the gfated rind, if 
wished ; let simmet* Until a thick syrUp is formed ; potir this 
over the apples. Drop a spoonful of whipped cream oil each, 
or serve the cream apart. 

BAKED APt>LfeS, CREOLE STYLE 

Core and pare the apples. Put a little sugar, water, and 
lemon juice into a baking-dish with the apples, and bake until 
tender, but not broken. Remove to a serving-dish, fill the 
centres with jelly or marmalade and pour the liquid from 
the b&kiilg-dlsh ovef them. Make a meringue with the whites 
of two eggs and four tablespdonfuls of sugar and flavor with 
lemon and vanilla. Press the meringue onto the tops of the 
apples, Using a pastry-bag and star tube. Bake in a moderate 
oven about eight minutes. The apples may be steamed or 
boiled in a syrup. Garnish with jelly. 

APPLES With juMket 

Have ready apples cooked in syrup or baked until tender. 
Set in individual dishes and sprinkle with chopped almonds. 
Heat a pint of fresh milk, to which one-third a cup of sugar 
has been added, until lukewarm (ioo° Fahr.)» then stir into it 
half a junket tablet, crushed and dissolved in a tablespooiiful 
of cold Water, add a few drops of Vanilla extract and pour 
into the dish around the apples, which should have been 
cooled. The milk will jelly when cold. Garnish with candied 
cherries and whipped cream. 

APPLES WITH RICE 

Blanch one cup of rice, then cook in boiling stilted water 
until tender, adding more water as needed. When done the 
water should be absorbed and the kernels of rice distinct. 
Line small, buttered cups with the rice; fill the centres closely 
with slices of apple cooked until tender, but Hot broken, in 
sugar and water; cover the apple with more rice, rounding the 
top slightly. Let steam or cook in the oven, standing in a dish 



JELLIED APPLES 569 

of hot water, about fifteen minutes. Turn from th^ cups 
onto a serving-dish and serve hot with a cold boiled custard, 
made of a pint of milk, the yolks of four eggs, half a cup of 
sugar and a few grains of salt. Mock cream, hard sauce, 
banana sauce, or lemon sauce, may replace the cugtard. 

FANCY BAKED APPLES (MARIE MORAN) 

Peel and core medium-sized tart apples. Put them in a 
baking-dish and pour half a cup of water over them. Set 
in a hot oven and, when the apples are heated, sprinkle with 
enough sugar to coat each and bake until tender. Make a 
syrup of one cup of water, half a cup of sugar, the juice of half 
a lemon, and a teaspoonful of the grated rind. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped raisins, two of chopped candied cherries, 
two of chopped candied pineapple, and two of chopped al- 
monds and, when the sugar is dissolved, set at the back of the 
stove and let cook slowly half an hour. When the apples are 
done, put in little glass saucers, taking care not to break them. 
Fill with the cooked sweets and pour the syrup over them. 
Serve cold with whipped cream. 

JELLIED APPLES, GARNISH OF WHIPPED CREAM 

Pare, quarter and core tart apples, and cut the quarters into 
two or three pieces. Put these into an earthen dish, — a new 
bean pot, or a casserole is suitable, — with layers of sugar be- 
tween, using a cup and a half of sugar for about a quart of 
slices. Add a fourth a cup of water, cover and let cook in a 
very slow oven three or more hours. When tender and very 
red and juicy, add to the hot juice drained from the apples 
a scant fourth a package of gelatine, softened in cold water, 
also a little lemon juice, if desired. Carefully lift a few 
pieces of apple at a time and dispose in an earthen bowl, adding 
a teaspoonful of the liquid, until all the ingredients are used. 
Let stand until cold and set, then turn from the mould and 
ornament with a piping of thick cream, beaten solid, or 
surround with thin cream, beaten with a whip churn and 
drained. Syrup from a jar of preserved ginger may be added 
to the cr^am before whipping. The apples are also particu- 



570 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

larly good served hot, without gelatine, with cream and pre- 
served ginger. 

JELLIED APPLES (MARIE MORAN) 

Soak half a box of gelatine in half a cup of cold water. 
Peel, core, and quarter two quarts of tart apples. Put a 
pint of water, the same of granulated sugar, the juice of a 
lemon, and a pinch of ginger in a saucepan. When the sugar 
is dissolved, let it boil ten minutes, then put in the apples, a 
few at a time. Let them cook till tender, but not broken. 
Take out with a wire spoon and spread on a dish. When all 
the apples are cooked, pour the gelatine into the syrup, and 
stir until melted. Then set in cold water and stir until it 
begins to jelly. Wet a fancy mould, pour in some of the 
jelly, then arrange the apples in a layer, with a few bits of 
preserved ginger and lemon strewed over them ; pour over the 
rest of the semi-liquid jelly and set the mould away to harden. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

APPLES A LA MANHATTAN 

Pare and core eight medium-sized apples. Make ready 
round pieces of sponge cake — one for each apple — an inch in 
thickness and of the same size as the apple. Sprinkle with 
sugar and set them in the oven until the sugar melts. Make 
a syrup of a cup of sugar and a cup of water. Cook the apples 
very slowly in the syrup. When tender drain and put an 
apple on each bit of cake. Add half a glass of jelly to the 
syrup, cook until it is quite thick, then pour over the whole. 
Garnish with whipped cream and candied cherries. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

Pare and slice four or five times as many apples as will fill 
the dish in which the Charlotte is to be made. Steam these 
until tender; then add sugar to taste and a generous piece of 
butter and cook the apples over the fire, stirring meanwhile, 
until they are very dry. Prepare sippets of bread an inch 
wide, by removing crust and dipping in melted butter; with 
these line a plain mould, making one sippet overlap another. 



J 



BLUSHIMG APPLES WITH ORANGE SAUCE. (Sm patte 56J.) 



APPLE CHARLOTTE. (See page s 



APPLES. DUCHESS STYLE, (See paBC 566,) 



573 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

For the rice preparation see page 334. Preserved ginger 
may be substituted for the cherries aqd angehcan 

PYHAWIP QF P]eAQH]p;a 

Cook six or eight peaches, cut in halves and pared, in a cup, 
each, of sugar and water boiled to a syrup; drain and arrange, 
on small round croutons^ about a pyramidal-shaped crouton. 
Put a blanched peach kernel or almond into the centre of each 
half peach. Boil the syrup with the juice of half a lemon 
until thick. Serve hot. For the croutons, either fry plain 
rounds of bread in butter, or dip the bread in a mixture of 
milk and egg before frying. 

BLACKBERRY SPQNQE 

Fill an earthen bowl closely with small cubes of bread, 
pouring over the bread, as it is fitted into place, hot black- 
berry juice (blackberries cooked until soft, with sugar to taste, 
and passed through ^ sieve). Use all the juice the bread will 
absorb. Set the sponge aside in a cool place for some hours, 
then turn from the bowl. Serve with blackberries, sugar and 
cream. 

RASPBERRIES WITH I^ICE CROQUETTES 

I cup of rice . i -4 a cup of whipped cr^am. 

i-a a t^blespoonfvil of s^lt. 1-4 a cup of candied orange peel, 

3 cups of milk. shredded fine. 

The yolks of three eggs. Angelica. 

1-4 a cup of butter. Raspberries, etc. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. 

Blanch the rice, then cook with the salt and candied jieel 
in the milk until tender; add the yolks of the eggs, beaten, the 
butter, sugar and cream. When cool form into peach shapes- 
egg and bread-crumb, and fry in deep fat; insert angelica for 
stems. Serve with raspberries dressed with sugar or cold 

syrup. 

BANANAS WITH RICE 

Prepare a border of cooked rice. Use rice croquette mix- 
ture, omitting the candied peel; pack the rice, in a buttere^i 



J 



BLACKBERRY SPONGE. (Bee p 



COMPOTE OP STUFFED PEARS WITH RICE. 



PYRAMID OF PEACHES. (See page s 



COMPOTE OP BANANAS Sjj 

and sugared border mould, set on a heavy folded paper, in a 
dish of hot water in the oven about twenty minutes. Un- 
mould on a serving-dish. Decorate the top with candied 
cherries and rounds cut from angelica. Cook a cup of sugar 
and a teaspoonful of cornstarch, sifted together, ten minutes 
in a pint of water; add the juice of a lemon and two table- 
Spoonfuls of butter. Pour the sauce over six bananas, peeled 
and cut in slices ; let stand a moment, then drain and dispose 
within the rice. Serve with the sauce reheated and in a dish 
apart. 

PEACH-AND-RICB MERINOUfi 

Prepare a rice croquette mixture. (See page 335.) Make a 
border of rice on a serving-dish that will stand the heat of the 
oven. Surround.this with halves of peaches, fresh or canned, 
with skins removed; inside the border dispose sliced peaches 
and rice in layers, sprinkling the peaches with sugar and giving 
the whole a dome shape. Cover with meringue (see page 555)* 
dust with sugar, and set in a slow oven about ten minutes. 

CHERRIES WITH CRUSTS 

Cut rings from slices of brioche ^ or bread, half an inch thick; 
soak these in egg yolk, beaten and diluted with milk or cream 
and mixed with sugar and a grating of orange peel. Egg and 
crumb, using macaroon crumbs and, lastly, bl^ad-crumbs, and 
saut^ in clarified butter; mask with marmalade and sprinkle 
-with chopped almonds. Dress crown shaped, one overlapping 
another, with stewed cherries in the centre. Thicken the 
cherry syrup with cornstarch or arrowroot for a sauce. 

COMPOTE OF BANANAS 

Remove the peel and threads from six very ripe bananas; 
let stand covered with boiling water a few seconds, then drain 
and coat each with orange syrup; pile in the form of a pyra- 
mid ; pour the rest of the syrup over them and sprinkle with 
chopped pistachio nuts or candied cherries. Serve as a des- 
sert or an fentr^e. For the syrup, boil one cup of orange juice 
and pulp and the juice of half a lemon with one cup of sugar 
fivfe or six minutes. The syrup should be rather thick. 



COMPOTE OP BANANAS 573 

and sugared border mould, set on a heavy folded paper, in a 
dish of hot water in the oven about twenty minutes. Un- 
mould on a serving-dish. Decorate the top with candied 
cherries and rounds cut from angelica. Cook a cup of sugar 
and a teaspoonful of cornstarch, sifted together, ten minutes 
in a pint of water; add the juice of a lemon and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Pour the sauce over six bananas, peeled 
and cut in slices ; let stand a moment, then drain and dispose 
within the rice. Serve with the sauce reheated and in a dish 
apart. 

PEACH-AND-RICE MERINQUE 

Prepare a rice croquette mixture. (See page 335.) Make a 
border of rice on a serving-dish that will stand the heat of the 
oven. Surround.this with halves of peaches, fresh or canned, 
with skins removed; inside the border dispose sliced peaches 
and rice in layers, sprinkling the peaches with sugar and giving 
the whole a dome shape. Cover with meringue (see page 555), 
dust with sugar, and set in a slow oven about ten minutes. 

CHERRlE'd WITH CRUSTS 

Cut rings from slices of brioche j Or bread, half an inch thick; 
soak these in egg yolk, beaten and diluted with milk or cream 
and mixed with sugar and a grating of orange peel. Egg and 
crumb, using macaroon crumbs and, lastly, btead-crumbs, and 
saut^ in clarified butter; mask with marmalade and sprinkle 
with chopped almonds. Dress crown shaped, one overlapping 
another, with stewed cherries in the centre. Thicken the 
cherry syrup with cornstarch or arrowroot for a sauce. 

COMPOTE OF BANANAS 

tiemove the peel and threads from six very ripe bananas; 
let stand covered with boiling water a few seconds, then drain 
and coat each with orange syrup; pile in the form of a pyra- 
mid ; pour the rest of the syrup over them and sprinkle with 
chopped pistachio nuts or candied cherries. Serve as a des- 
sert Of an fentr^e. For the sytup, boil one cup of orange juice 
and pulp and the juice of half a lemon with one cup of sugar 
fivfe or six minutes. The syrup should be rather thick. 



574 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FRIED BANANAS, CHERRY SAUCE 

Cut bananas lengthwise into halves, roll them in finely pul- 
verized macaroons and then in flour, and fry in deep fat or 
oil until lightly colored ; drain on soft paper, brush over with 
apricot marmalade, and dredge with shredded pistachio nuts. 
Serve with a syrup made of one cup of sugar and one cup of 
water boiled together five minutes and mixed with half a cup 
of currant jelly; when the jelly is melted, add a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice and strain over half a cup of preserved cherries. 
Serve as an entree, 

BAKED BANANAS 

Pull down a section of banana skin and loosen the pulp from 
the rest of the skin ; remove all coarse threads and replace the 
fruit in its original position in the skin; bake half a dozen 
bananas, so prepared, in a hot oven, until the skin is blackened 
and the pulp is softened. Take the pulp from the skin's with- 
out injury to shape and dispose on a serving-dish in half-circles ; 
brush over with half-melted currant jelly, or a hot sauce, and 
sprinkle with fine-chopped pistachio nuts. Serve with a bowl 
of sauce apart. Lemon, wine or Richelieu sauce is appropriate 
with this dish. 

BAKED BANANAS (PORTO RICO) 

Select rather green bananas : put them entire into hot ashes, 
or a very hot oven, and bake until the skins burst open. 
Serve at once, in a folded napkin, with butter. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Cook one pint of cranberries with one pint of boiling water 
five minutes after boiling begins (closely covered), strain, 
add a cup of sugar and let boil once. Skim and set aside to 
cool. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE, NO. a 

Use one-half as much sugar, by measure, as cranberries and 
one-half as much water as sugar. Cover and cook ten minutes 
— ^long cooking makes the sauce bitter — then skim and cool. 



RASPBERRIES WITH RICE CROQL'ETTES (See | 



PEACH AND RICE MERINGL'E. (See page s 



CHERRIES WITH CRUSTS. 



BAKED RHUBARB 575 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Cook one quart of cranberries in a cup of water over a hot 
fire about five minutes, or until the berries burst. With a 
wooden pestle press the pulp through a coarse sieve, add a pint 
of sugar, and stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved and 
the mixture begins to simmer, then skim and pour into cups 
to cool. 

STEWED FIGS 

Whole, unpressed figs in a basket or bag are the best; the 
price varies with the qtiality. The skin of the better variety 
of figs is glossy, silky, and very tender. Such figs require but 
little cooking. Wash the figs thoroughly, cover with boiling 
water, and let cook until the skin is tender, adding boiling 
water if needed. When about done a little sugar may be 
added. Let the syrup cook until thickened a little. Serve hot 
or cold with the breakfast cereal, or cold with plain, whipped, 
or Devonshire cream, as a dessert. For a more elaborate 
dessert, make an opening in the side of each fig and insert a 
teaspoonful of chopped nuts, or nuts and cherries, press in 
shape and cook without disturbance. 

STUFFED DATES WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Remove the seeds from choice dates and fill the vacant 
spaces with slices of English walnut, or pecan nut meats, or 
halves of blanched almonds, and press into the original shape. 
Stew until tender in a little hot water, adding, at the last, 
sugar and lemon juice. Whip a cup of double cream and a cup 
of milk with a whip chum and remove the froth. Drain and 
chill the froth and serve the dates in a circle around this. 

BAKED RHUBARB (JULIA D. CHANDLER) 

Rinse quickly, wipe clean, and remove skin or shreds from 
larger stalks. Have ready an earthen or agate dish with 
plate to fit the top as a cover. Cut the stalks into this, in 
short lengths, scattering sugar over in layers, as one would for 
apple or other fruits, but not to excess. Add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of water, "to start the steam, " cover and set in 



S76 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the oven. In a short time the rhubarb will be tender, the 
syrup pink-colored. A bit of white ginger root or orange 
peel may be added while baking. Whole figs, dates of raisins, 
previously boiled in hot water, may be put into the baking- 
dish in layers with uncooked rhubarb and cooked until the 
rhubarb is tender. A sprinkling of sugar is needed upon the 
layers of rhubarb. 

GRAPE JUICE 

Weigh the grapes, and for each ten pounds use three pounds 
of sugar. Pick the grapes from the stems, put in an agate or 
porcelain kettle with about five pints of water to a peck of 
grapes. Cover and bring slowly to the boiling point, stirring 
occasionally, and when boiling hot throughout turn into a 
heavy bag and let drain; when cool press out all the juice re- 
maining, add the sugar, heat to the boiling point, skim, and 
store in fruit jars as in canning fruit. The sugar may be 
omitted. Other fruit juices, as strawberry, raspberry, etc.. 
may be prepared in the same way; these are useful for ices, 
punch, etc. 

COMPOTE OF CrtEsTJ^UTS 

40 large imported chestnuts. 1-4 a vanilla bean, or 

Syrup to cover, registering 1 6** on 1-2 the yellow rind of a lemon 
the gauge. or orange. 

Put the blanched chestnuts on the bottom of a large sauce- 
pan, cover with the syrup, add the bean or the rind and let 
simmer twenty minutes or until tender, then drain ; strain the 
syrup and reduce it to 30° on the gauge, then pour it over the 
chestnuts and dispose in a serving-dish. The chestnuts keep 
their shape better if used fresh. After blanching, if the 
chestnuts are old and dry, let soak in lemon juice a few hours 
before cooking. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Salted almonds are served at luncheon and dinner, and are 
eaten at any time during these meals as inclination dictates. 
To blanch, put the nuts over the fire in boiling water, let cook 
a few moments, drain, and cover with cold water, when the 
skins can be easily removed. English walnuts need longer 



SALTED ALMONDS 577 

cooking, and the layers of skin will have to be removed with a 
small penknife. When blanched, put the nuts into a pan 
with a little melted butter and set them in a moderate oven. 
Stir frequently so they will brown evenly on all sides. Sprinkle 
with salt while hot. 

SALTED ALMONDS, NO. a 

Fry the blanched nuts, a few at a time, in a small saucepan of 
olive oil to a delicate brown, stirring the almonds meanwhile ; 
remove with a skimmer, drain on soft paper and sprinkle with 
salt. Pecan or English walnut meats, unblanched, or peanuts, 
skins removed, are salted and served as almonds. 

SALTED ALMONDS, NO. 3. (MASSACHUSETTS 

CONFECTIONER) 

Blanch two cups of almonds and boil eight minutes in water 
with a cup of salt. Dry and saut^ quickly in four tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. Almonds, prepared by this recipe, will not be- 
come rancid and are not covered with salt crystals. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 
The Preservation of Fruit 

"Here is fruit for an epicure meet, 
Canned and pickled and smothered in sweet; 
The wealth of summer's mellow prime, 
To cheer the dearth of winter's rime." — ^J. M. L. 

SYNOPSIS 

a. Time to preserve fruit. 



^ **Preserves." 
Marmalades, 

Butters, 
^ Jellies. 



, ,, - f Heavy solution of sugar. 

n. Means of pres- J t^ , . ^ « ^ 

. "^ Exclusion of all germs. Canning. 

I Strong acids. Pickling. 

Recipes. 

Instinctively, as it were, in time of plenty we are inclined 
to lay aside something for use in time of need. This is par- 
ticularly true when one has a bountiful supply of fruit, which, 
in any form, is a welcome addition to the dietary, and which, 
unless preserved in some manner, soon becomes worthless. 

There is said to be one supreme moment when a peach is in 
perfect condition for eating. It is much the same with all 
fruit. There is a time when it is at its best; but, passing that, 
it is unsatisfactory either for ** putting up" or for eating raw. 
The first step, then, in the process of preserving fruit is to se- 
cure fruit that is uniform in ripeness and at the height of its 
flavor. Thus selected, the fruit should be so preserved as to 
retain this flavor, and, when admissible, its shape. The ease 
with which this may be done and the wholesomeness of the 
finished product are also worthy of attention. 

Long before people had any knowledge of microbes, it was 
discovered that fruit could be readily kept, and almost in- 
definitely, in a heavy solution of sugar, or in a strong acid, 

578 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 579 

like vinegar. Hence came pickles of various kinds, and the 
compositions, pound for pound, of sugar and fruit, called by 
our grandmothers jam, marmalade, jelly, and "preserves. " 

Preserves, though a general term, is more particularly ap- 
plied to sweets made of whole fruit, or large pieces of fruit, 
kept as whole as possible, while marmalades, jams and butters 
are made of fruit fine-divided or crushed, and jellies of fruit 
juices only. Fruit *' put up " in these ways owes its preserva- 
tion to the fact that the ubiquitous microbe, whose primal 
mission is to reduce everything earthly to its "lowest terms, " 
cannot thrive and multiply in a thick solution of sugar. On 
this account, though the usual sanitary ways of cooking should 
always be employed, care in securing absolute freedom from 
all bacteria is not so imperative as it is when the fruit is put 
up without sugar, or in a light syrup. In the latter cases 
the microbes that flourish upon the outside of the fruit, and in 
water and air, must be destroyed by heat at the boiling point, 
or by heat ^t lower temperature applied for a short time on 
several occasions, else the fruit is liable "to spoil." A dry, 
sunny day is preferable for preserving fruit, as for all cooking 
of sugar. 

UTENSILS 

Among the utensils that are the most necessary for use in 
preserving fruit are scales, measuring-cups, porcelain or 
agateware saucepans, earthern or agateware bowls, silver, 
agnate or wooden spoons, a fruit press, an agate colander, small 
dipper and funnel, jars with new rubbers and perfect covers, 
glasses for jelly, jam, etc., bottles for catsups and sauces, 
and jelly bags of felt, loosely woven flannel, or doubled cheese- 
cloth. It is needless to add* that each of these, if not abso- 
lutely new, should be in an immaculate condition. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Select fruit of uniform ripeness and free from bruises and 
other blemishes. Put berries, cherries, currants and other 
small fruits, freed of hulls, a few at a time, in a colander stand- 
ins ^^ ^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^^ water. The water should just cover the 
fruit, and should be changed, perhaps, several times. Then 



58o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

turn the fruit onto a cheesecloth to drain. Scald plums, to 
remove the skins, or, if these are to be retained, wipe outside 
and prick in several places, to avoid bursting. Peaches, 
pears and similar fruit should be neatly pared with a silver 
knife, then rubbed over with the cut side of a lemon, or kept 
covered in cold water, until the moment of cooking (to avoid 
discoloration). These latter fruits are often cut in halves and 
freed from cores or stones. 

The stems of pears carefully scraped are often retained. 
To insure the retention of flavor, quick cooking is essential; 
and but a small quantity should be cooked at a time. 

GENERAL RULE FOR PRESERVES 

Take equal weights of prepared fruit and sugar. To each 
pound of sugar add half a pound (one cup) of water and 
heat to boiling point. Skim, add the prepared fruit with a 
few kernels from the stones and cook until the fruit is trans- 
parent. Lemon juice is an agreeable addition to either peach 
or pear preserve. Three-fourths a pound of sugar to a pound 
of fruit is often used for peaches, pears and strawberries. 
Often in case of fruit whose shape is liable to be injured by 
long cooking, the fruit is set aside in the boiling syrup three 
days in succession, the syrup on the second and third mornings 
being drained from the fruit, reheated, and poured over it. 

MARMALADE, JAM AND BUTTERS 

These are made of the pulp and juice of fruit. For the 
first two, apples and quinces are cooked in water and sifted, 
small fruits are mashed and, when the seeds are objectionable, 
also sifted. An equal weight of sugar is used, but it is added 
by degrees, to keep the fruit soft. Frequent stirring is 
necessary, to avoid burning. In making butters, the pre- 
pared fruit is cooked slowly with a very little water. In the 
meantime it is stirred with a peculiar shaped, perforated, 
wooden utensil, the fruit being broken up by passing through 
the perforations during the stirring. Sugar, either pound for 
pound or three-fourths of a pound to a poimd of fruit, and 
spices are added during the cooking, the larger portion during 



. CANNING 581 

the latter part of the process, to lessen the liability to bum. 
Apples and peaches are the fruits most often made into butters ; 
the cooking is a longer process than that for jams, etc. 

JELLIES 

The various processes of jelly-making donot differ materially. 
Fruit juice is boiled with sugar to the jellying state. The 
shorter the time of boiling, the more pronounced will be the 
fruit flavor. Juice from currants may be extracted by pres- 
sure, without the use of heat, or, as in case of other fruits, the 
currants may be cooked enough to release the juice without 
pressure. To extract the juice, a little water is added to the 
fruit and the whole is cooked steadily, but slowly, over the fire 
until the juice flows freely ; or the fruit is cooked, without the 
addition of water, in a jar standing in a vessel of hot water, 
until it is soft enough to mash. In any case, pass the juice 
twice through a jelly bag wrung out of hot water, without 
pressure, then heat to the boiling point, skim and boil five or 
more minutes, then add an equal weight of granulated sugar 
that has been heated in the oven without browning. Let boil 
until a little will jelly slightly on a cold dish. Less than five 
minutes' boiling will usually suffice, though sometimes fifteen 
minutes is required; the time depends upon the quantity of 
water present in the fruit juice. If jelly with less sugar be 
desired, reduce the juice by boiling some minutes before add- 
ing half or three-fourths the weight of sugar. Turn the jelly 
as soon as cooked into glasses, first rinsed in hot water and 
placed on a folded cloth wrung out of hot water. When cold, 
cover with melted paraffine, or paper dipped in alcohol, then 
with a tin cover or a second piece of paper. Store in a dry 
place. 

CANNING 

The several ways of canning fruit are variations only of two 
original methods — i. ^., by cooking the fruit in an open sauce- 
pan and transferring to the jars, and by cooking the fruit in 
the same jars in which it is to be set aside. In either case, 
the fruit is but slightly cooked, and no more sugar is used 
than would be palatable if the fruit were to be eaten fresh. 



582 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

This quantity is about one cup of sugar and one cup of water 
to a quart of juicy fruit. The water is increased to two cups for 
dry fruits like pears and apples. 

In canning, as the syrup is not of sufficient strength to 
prevent the growth of microbes, no pains must be spared to in- 
sure complete sterilization, While the fruit is cooking in the 
syrup in the saucepan, let the jars stand, filled with boiling 
water, on a folded cloth, saturated with boiling water, upon, the 
back of the range. When the fruit is cooked, pour the water 
from the jars and fill at once to overflow with fruit and syrup. 
Adjust new rubbers and quickly screw on the lids, which have 
been standing, meanwhile, in boiling water. A wide-mouthed 
funnel with spreading top is convenient in filling the jars. 

When the fruit is cooked in the jars^ — and this method 
conserves the flavor more perfectly — fill the jars with the 
prepared fruit. Set them on a heavy fold of cloth, paper, 
or on a perforated board, in a saucepan half filled with ivann 
water. Fill to overflow with hot syrup, adjust new rubbers, 
and screw down the covers lightly. Bring the water in the 
saucepan to the boiling point and let boil from five to ten 
minutes. If necessary, add more hot syrup to fill the jars 
to overflow, or use one jar to fill the others. Screw the covers 
on tightly, let cool in water, tighten the covers once more, 
and set aside in a cool, dark closet. Patent canners may 
be found at kitchen furnishing stores that simplify canning 
by the latter method. These are of much assistance in can- 
ning fruit and are invaluable in canning vegetables. Vege- 
tables, gathered at the proper time, cooked sufficiently and 
with care, will keep indefinitely and without the use of any 
"preservative." 

PRESERVED BERRIES 

For each pound of preserved berries use ten ounces of 
sugar and one-fourth a cup of water. Cook the sugar and 
water to the soft-ball stage or to a thick syrup; let stand a 
few moments to cool a little, then pour onto the berries in 
fruit jars. Fill the jars to the top, adjust the rubbers and 
screw the covers down loosely. Set the jars on perforated 
boards, folds of paper or cloth in a saucepan, and surroixnd 



QUINCE AND SWEET APPLE PRESERVES 583 

with water at about the same temperature as the jars. Bring, 
slowly to the boiling point and let boil ten minutes. Cool 
slowly in the water, tighten the covers and set aside in a 
dry, cool place. This confection is richer than ordinary 
canned fruit, yet it is not so rich as the traditional preserves. 
By this formula the shape and color of the berries are well 
preserved. 

GRAPE PRESERVES 

Weigh the grapes and allow three-fourths a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit. Rinse the bunches of grapes in 
cold water, drain and squeeze the pulp from the skin of each 
grape. Heat the pulp gradually and cook until the seeds 
come out easily. Ten or fifteen minutes will be required. 
Pass through a sieve just fine enough to keep back the seeds. 
Cook the skins and the pulp ten minutes, then add the sugar 
and continue cooking until the liquid thickens slightly. 
Store in earthen or glass jars. 

PEARS PRESERVED VS^ITH GINGER 

Pare, quarter and core eight pounds of pears; cut or break 
one-fourth a pound of ginger root into pieces. Grate the 
yellow rind of two or three lemons. Put the pears, ginger 
and grated lemon into a saucepan, in layers, with eight pounds 
of sugar; add a cup of water — two if the pears are dry. Let 
heat very slowly and cook until the pears look clear; add 
the juice of six lemons, when the fruit is rather more than 
half cooked. Two hours of cooking will often be needed. 

QUINCE AND SWEET APPLE PRESERVES 

Pare the quinces, cut in quarters and remove the cores 
and woody portion beneath. Cook the cores and skins with 
water to cover about an hour, then strain off this water and 
in it cook the quinces and half as many sweet apples, also 
pared and cored, until each is tender or can be pierced with 
a straw. Let the fruit stand in cold water after preparation 
until time of cooking. Cook only as much fruit at a time 
as can be covered by the liquid. Remove with a skimmer 
when tender. When all the fruit has been cooked, add to 



S84 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the liquid a pound of sugar for each pound of quince and 
half a pound of sugar for each pound of apple ; boil five min- 
utes, skim and add the fruit and let cook slowy until of the 
desired color; long cooking gives a dark-tinted preserve. 
Drain on a platter and when all are cooked and drained, 
store in jars, straining the hot syrup over the fruit. Use 
only the liquid from the cores and skins that drains through 
the cloth. By pressure extract the gelatinous substance and 
use this with any small pieces of quince in making marmalade. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES OR SUNSHINE 
STRAWBERRIES (OHIO) 

Select and hull three pounds of perfect strawberries of 
large size. Cook three pounds of fine granulated sugar and 
two cups of boiling water until a light thread is formed. 
Do not stir the sugar after it melts and begins to boil. Put 
in the berries and cook fifteen or twenty minutes after they 
begin to boil. Pour the contents onto a large platter and 
set in the sun to stand two days, or imtil the syrup is very 
thick. Store in tumblers, jars or bottles, cover the tops with 
paraffine, and set aside in a cool, dry closet. Other fruit may 
be preserved in the same manner. When cherries are used, 
stone them before weighing the fruit. In making the syrup, 
use the juice from the cherries instead of water. If one 
has a larger quantity of juice than is needed for the preserve, 
can it for sherbets, sauces, etc. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES, NO. a 

Select and set aside the largest and most perfect berries- 
Mash the others and boil fifteen minutes without water, 
then strain through a jelly bag. Allow a pound of sugar to 
a quart of juice. Make a syrup with a pint of water to each 
two pounds of sugar and skim thoroughly. When the scum 
ceases to rise, pour in the juice of the berries and boil (from 
five to fifteen minutes) to the soft-ball degree. Pour the syrup 
into glass jars and, Hfting the berries with a spoon, put in as 
many as the syrup will cover without crowding. When cold 
seal with paraffine. 



VANILLA CHESTNUT PRESERVE 585 

CITRON, MELON OR WATERMELON-RIND PRESERVES 

Remove the green outer rind of the melon and cut the 

remainder into pieces of small size. Citron may be cut in 

slices and the slices, after the seeds are removed, stamped 

out into pleasing shapes. Cover with cold water and add a 

tablespoonful of salt for each quart of water. Let stand over 

night in the salted water, then drain and rinse thoroughly. 

Cook in boiling water until transparent. Drain carefully. 

For each pound of rind make a syrup of three-fourths a 

potmd of sugar and half a cup of water and skim thoroughly; 

then add the melon and for each pound half an ounce of 

ginger root and a lemon, cut in slices. Cook about twenty 

minutes, or until the pieces of melon look rich and full. Skim 

from the syrup into jars; boil the syrup until rich and thick 

and pour over the fruit in the jars. 

VANILLA CHESTNUT PRESERVE 

With a sharp-pointed knife slit each chestnut shell across 
one side. Cook a minute in boiling water, drain well and let 
dry. Add a teaspoonful of butter for each pint of nuts and 
stir and shake over the fire three or four minutes. Then re- 
move the shell and skin together. Keep the nuts covered 
with a thick cloth, as they shell better when hot. Soak the 
shelled nuts in cold water to cover, to which is added a little 
citric acid, or a larger quantity of lemon juice, seven or 
eight hours. This is to harden the nuts, that they may not 
break in pieces while cooking. A quantity of acid about 
equal to the size of a shelled nut may be used with each pint 
of shelled nuts. The acid is harmless; but, if more is used, 
the taste will be noticeable. 

The nuts are in the best condition for preserving 
in syrup or as glac^ nuts when they are first gathered in 
the fall. They soon dry and then are likely to fall in pieces 
while cooking. After soaking the chestnuts in the acid water, 
drain and cover with plenty of boiling water. Let boil, then 
cook about two hours with the water barely quivering at 



BAKED RHUBARB 575 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Cook one quart of cranberries in a cup of water over a hot 
fire about five minutes, or until the berries burst. With a 
wooden pestle press the pulp through a coarse sieve, add a pint 
of sugar, and stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved and 
the mixture begins to simmer, then skim and pour into cups 
to cool. 

STEWED FIGS 

Whole, unpressed figs in a basket or bag are the best; the 
price varies with the quality. The skin of the better variety 
of figs is glossy, silky, and very tender. Such figs require but 
little cooking. Wash the figs thoroughly, cover with boiling 
water, and let cook until the skin is tender, adding boiling 
water if needed. When about done a little sugar may be 
added. Let the syrup cook until thickened a little. Serve hot 
or cold with the breakfast cereal, or cold with plain, whipped, 
or Devonshire cream, as a dessert. For a more elaborate 
dessert, make an opening in the side of each fig and insert a 
teaspoonful of chopped nuts, or nuts and cherries, press in 
shape and cook without disturbance. 

STUFFED DATES WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Remove the seeds from choice dates and fill the vacant 
spaces with slices of English walnut, or pecan nut meats, or 
halves of blanched almonds, and press into the original shape. 
Stew until tender in a little hot water, adding, at the last, 
sugar and lemon juice. Whip a cup of double cream and a cup 
of milk with a whip chum and remove the froth. Drain and 
chill the froth and serve the dates in a circle around this. 

BAKED RHUBARB (JULIA D. CHANDLER) 

Rinse quickly, wipe clean, and remove skin or shreds from 
larger stalks. Have ready an earthen or agate dish with 
plate to fit the top as a cover. Cut the stalks into this, in 
short lengths, scattering sugar over in layers, as one would for 
apple or other fruits, but not to excess. Add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of water, "to start the steam, " cover and set in 



5S8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



APPLE, PEACH OR QUINCE MARMALADB 

Pare and core the apples and cook until tender with just 
water enough to keep from burning. Sift through a ven- 
fine sieve. Return to the fire with a very scant pound of 
sugar and the juice and grated rind of a lemon for each pKJund 
of pulp. Cook, stirring with a wooden spoon, until all the 
water is evaporated, or until the marmalade does not " spread 
out " when taken up on a saucer. Pour into hot glasses. Peach 
and quince marmalade are made in the same way. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Use one lemon to each five oranges and three-fourths 
the weight of the prepared fruit in sugar. Wipe the fruit 
carefully, then take off the peel in quarters, and remove as 
much of the white, bitter portion of the rind as is not de- 
sired; cut the rest of the peel into shreds. Cut the pulp in 
halves and with a glass lemon squeezer or a spoon remove 
the juice and pulp, discarding seeds, tough membranes and 
white, pithy portions. Stir the sugar into the juice, pulp. 
and shreds of yellow rind, and let cook until very thick, but 
not firm like jelly. If the thin-skinned Tangerine or Messina 
oranges be used, the marmalade is iess liable to be bitter. 
The rind will be more tender if simmered in water to cox'er 
before the addition of the sugar. Weigh this water with the 
rind, juice, etc., in determining the quantity of sugar re- 
quired. Gelatine in small quantity, about an ounce to two 
quarts, is often added to orange marmalade, to keep the rind 
from settling to the bottom of the glass. 

ORANGE-AND-APPLE MARMALADE 

Cook apples, sliced without paring, in water to cover until 
tender, and drain through a jelly bag, pressing out all the 
juice; add to this an equal weight of sugar and cook until 
the liquid dr6ps in beads ; now add an equal or less quantity 
of orange pulp and yellow orange peel, shredded and cooked 
tender, and cook as before. Store as any marmalade. 



CANNED STRAWBERRIES 589 

JELLIES 
CURRANT JELLY, NO. i 

Do not gather the currants just after a rain; extract the 
juice by pressing a few at a time in a cloth, then let drain 
through a cloth without pressure. Let as many cups of sugar 
as thefe are of juice heat in the oven without discoloring 
(stir often), then, when the juice boils, add the sugar and let 
boil a few minutes or until a little will jelly on a cold plate. 
Cook but a small portion of juice at a time. 

CURRANT JELLY, NO. a; ALSO GRAPE, BLACKBERRY, 

PLUM, APPLE, ETC. 

Cut apples in quarters without removing skins or cores 
unless defective; cut plums in halves, and pull grapes and 
currants from the stems. A little water needs be added to 
apples, crab apples^ quinces and other dry fruit. Avoid the 
use of water with currants, grapes, etc., let cook until the 
pulp is softened, then strain without pressure. Press the 
bag to get the last of the juice and with this make a second 
quality of jelly. Jelly made of dry fruits will harden after 
it is set aside in the glasses, and if cooked to the consist- 
ency usually desired in currant and similar jellies will be 
too firm and solid in a few weeks. Equal quantities by weight 
of barberries and apples make a delicious jelly. Green goose- 
berries or green plums give a delicately tinted jelly. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES 

Weigh the berries after hulling and take one-fourth the 
weight of the berries in sugar. Wash a few at a time by 
letting cold water run through them held in a colander; 
take one-fourth the weight of the berries, selecting the in- 
ferior ones, and pass through a potato ricer or crush with 
a pestle; strain through a firm piece of cheesecloth, doubled, 
pressing out the juice, measure the juice, and to it add half 
the quantity of water and the sugar; let boil twenty min- 
utes, skimming as needed. Put the rest of the berries in fruit 
cans, the cans into a saucepan on a perforated board that 



S90 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

rests on the bottom of the saucepan, or onto several folds 
of heavy paper cut to fit into the saucepan; pour in the 
prepared strawberry syrup to fill the jars; put the rubber 
bands in place and the covers on loosely ; pour in warm water 
to fill the saucepan rather more than half full, cover and 
let heat to the boiling point; let boil half an hour, then fill 
the jars to overflowing if not already full, using the contents 
of one of the jars for the purpose; turn the covers down 
tightly and set aside to cool. Turn the covers down a second 
time after the cans have become cold, then set aside in a 
cool, dry closet. If any of the jars are to be filled from an- 
other jar, let the covers stand in hot water during the pro- 
cess. If the jars are filled to the top, turn the covers down 
without removing them. With a patent tin or copper ** canner " 
the process is much simplified. 

For canning fruit and tomatoes, see page 581. For vege- 
tables a canner should be purchased; the length of lime 
required to cook the vegetables varies with the make of the 
canner. The pressure of steam generated in cooking is a 
factor in the time required for the process. 

PICKLES, CATSUPS, ETC. 

Pickles are not classed as hygienic relishes, but there are 
pickles and pickles. Cucumber pickles are sometimes colored 
green with sulphate of copper, which is a deadly poison. 
They are tinted green, also, by scalding in a brass or copper 
kettle ; but while pickles so colored might not cause illness, no 
one who pays any regard to health would venture to eat them. 
Cucumbers scalded in a porcelain kettle, lined and covered with 
cabbage leaves, are also said to assume a green color. Scald- 
ing or parboiling renders pickles soft and tender; by limiting 
this they are left crisp. A piece of alum, the size of a small 
pecan nut, dissolved in the vinegar that is to be poured over 
one gallon of cucumbers, will make them more crisp; but alum 
even in small quantities cannot be called wholesome. 

GREEN SOUR PICKLES 

Use a cup of salt to a peck of whole cucumbers or green 
tomatoes, sliced. Put in a stone jar, in layers, with the salt, 



i 



INDIAN PICKLE 591 

cover with cold water and let stand over night. In the morning 
drain off the brine, scald and again pour over the vegetables. 
Let stand over night, then drain. Scald enough vinegar to 
cover the pickles, with four green or red peppers, two table- 
spoonfuls of whole cloves, and a piece of horseradish. Add 
the pickles and when scalded store in jars. 

SWEET PICKLED PEARS, PEACHES AND MELON-RINDS 

7 pounds of fruit. i cup of water. 

5 pounds of sugar. 2-3 a cup of stick cinnamon. 

I pint of vinegar. 1-3 a cup of whole cloves. 

Remove the skins and blossom ends of pears (retain the 
skins of sickle- pears), retaining the stems. Scald peaches, to 
remove the skins, or pare them. Watermelon rind should not 
be too thin; cut away all pink pulp and the thin green rind 
on the outside; remove the thin outside rind of muskmelons. 
Keep peaches and pears whole, and cut the rind in small 
pieces (squares, rounds, diamonds, etc.). Make a syrup of 
the sugar, vinegar and water; skim and add the spices. Cook 
pears until tender in the syrup, then place in fruit jars and 
pour the syrup, reduced by cooking, over them. Scald peaches 
in the syrup on three consecutive mornings; on the third 
morning put the peaches in jars, boil the syrup to the con- 
sistency of molasses, and pour it over them. Put the spices 
into the jars with the fruit. Cook muskmelon as pears; water- 
melon rind needs be cooked in water until tender and then 
finished as the peaches or pears. 

INDIAN PICKLE OR PICKLES WITH MUSTARD 

Use a mixture of small cucumbers, or large ones cut in pieces, 
green tomatoes sliced, cauliflower broken into flowerets, 
nasturtium seeds, string beans, green grapes and button 
onions. Sprinkle with salt and cover with water. Use about 
one pint of salt to six quarts of water. Let stand over night 
in the brine, then drain off the brine, scald and pour it over 
the vegetables; let stand in it until cool, then drain again. 
For every gallon of vinegar needed to cover the pickles, take 
one-fourth a pound, each, of curry-powder and mustard- 



592 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

compound (mustard of commerce), half a teaspoonful of 
cayenne, one-fourth a pound of salt and one pound of brown 
sugar. Heat the salt and sugar with the vinegar, mix the 
curry-powder, mustard and cayenne with a little of the hot 
vinegar, and when smooth and well-diluted add to the rest 
of the vinegar; pour this scalding hot over the vegetables. 

The vegetables may be scalded in vinegar, instead of in 
the brine. This vinegar should, however, be thrown away 
and a second supply be scalded with the seasonings, for 
keeping the pickles. If a thicker consistency be desired in 
the vinegar, a cup of flour may be added with the curry- 
powder and mustard. 

GREEN TOMATO SWEET PICKLES 

Remove a thin slice from the blossom ends and the hard 
portion around the stems of one peck of tomatoes. SUce the 
tomatoes, sprinkle with one cup of salt and set aside o\'er 
night. In the morning, drain and boil fifteen minutes in two 
quarts of boiling water and one quart of vinegar; then drain 
again. Cook, together, ten minutes, one gallon of cider vinegar, 
two pounds of sugar (less sugar may be used, if desired), 
three red pepper pods cut in strips, one tablespoonful of 
white mustard seed, whole, and one cup of cinnamon bark, 
ginger root, mace, and whole cloves, mixed in such propor- 
tions as are desired. Add the tomato and simmer gently 
nearly one hour, stirring occasionally. Remove the spices, 
which, with the exception of the red pepper that is to be left 
in the pickle, have been tied in a muslin bag, and store in fruit 
jars. Let the syrup completely covet the slices of tomato. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER 

Separate the heads of the cauliflower, steamed as usual, 
into flowerets and put them in glass jars. Fill the jars with 
the following pickle : Mix half a pound of dry mustard With 
half an ounce of tumeric, dilute to a thin paste with vinegar 
and stir into two quarts of scalding hot vinegar; stir until 
the liquid begins to thicken, then add a cup of sugar, half 
a cup of olive oil and one ounce of mustard seed and simn^r 
five minutes. 



OLIVE OIL PICKLES 593 

FRENCH PICKLrB. (MRS. H* O. HBRSHAM) 

Chop fine half a peck of green tomatoes, one head of cab- 
bage, fifteen white onions and ten large green cucumbers. 
Put a layer of vegetables into a porcelain dish and sprinkle 
with salt; continue the layers of vegetables and salt until 
all ate used; let stand over night, then drain, discarding the 
liquid. Heat three quarts of cider vinegar, three pounds of 
brown sugar, one-fourth a cup of tumeric, one-fourth a cup 
of black pepper seed, one ounce of celery seed, three-fourths 
a pound of mustard seed and three red peppers, chopped 
fine, to the boiling point, and pour over the vegetables. 
Let stand over night, then drain the liquid from the vege- 
tables, reheat and again pour over the vegetables; repeat 
this process the third morning, then, when the mixture becomes 
cold, stir into it one-fourth a pound of ground mustard and 
one teaspoon ful of curry powder, mixed with one cup of 
olive oil and one quart of vinegar. 

aWEET PICKLED LIMES. (MRS. RUSSELL, BOSTON) 

I gallon of salted limes. 1-4 a pound of stick cinnamon. 

I gallon of vinegar. ' 1-2 a pound of allspice. 

3 pounds of sugar. 3 ounces of cloves. 

Boil the limes in water till very tender and, to get rid of 
the salt, drain and pierce. 

Boil vinegar and spices together and pour over the limes. 
Keep hot for twenty minutes, but do not boil the vinegar 
ag^ain. 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES 

Cover four quarts of sliced cucumbers with boiling hot 
water and when cold drain and cover with a weak brine. 
Let stand over night. In the morning drain. Then add: 

1-2 a teaspoonful of cloves. 1-2 a cup of olive oil. 

X- 2 a teaspoonful of allspice. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of celery seed. 1-2 a cup of mustard seed. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. i dozen of onions. 

Cold vinegar enough to cover thoroughly. Mix well and can. 



594 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SMALL CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLES 

Place the cucumbers in a dish with half a cup of salt to 
two quarts of cucumbers; cover with boiling water and let 
stand over night. In the morning remove them from the 
brine, place in a granite kettle, cover with vinegar, to which 
has been added whole mustard seed, whole cloves, and cinna- 
mon, and one cup of sugar. Let come to the boiling point, 
but not boil. Put in cans or bottles and seal while hot. 

CHILI SAUCE. (CHEF SILVERBRAND) 

loo ripe tomatoes. i8 teaspoonfuls of ginger. 

24 peppers. 18 teaspoonfuls of cloves. 

18 large white onions. 18 teaspoonfuls of allspice. 

I pound of brown sugar. i gallon of vinegar 

9 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Remove the skins from the tomatoes and chop the peppers 
and onions very fine ; add to the other ingredients, boil gently, 
stirring often, one hour. Strain and boil again, if not of 
sufficient consistency. Set aside in closely corked bottles, 
or in fruit jars tightly closed. 

SPICED CURRANTS, GOOSEBERRIES, ETC. 

Melt four pounds of sugar in a pint of vinegar; add seven 
pounds of currants, one tablespoonful, each, of ground cinna- 
mon and cloves, one nutmeg, grated, and one teaspoonful 
of allspice; let boil two hours. 

GRAPE CATSUP 

Cover two quarts of ripe, wild grapes with vinegar and 
cook until soft; strain, add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful, each, of cloves and all- 
spice and one-fourth a teaspoonful of cayenne. Cook until 
thick. Store in bottles. If the vinegar be strong, use less 
vinegar and cook slowly, to avoid burning. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

Scald half a bushel of ripe tomatoes and remove the skins; 
add half a cup of salt, one pound of sugar, one t9,blespoonful 



MUSHROOM CATSUP 595 

of cayenne pepper, three tablespoonfuls, each, of ground 
mace and celery seed, two tablespoonfuls of ground cinna- 
mon, and two quarts of vinegar. Boil slowly until reduced 
one-half, then pass through a sieve, reheat and store in sealed 
bottles, or in tight-closed cans. A larger quantity of spice 
is desired by many. 

APPLE CHUTNEY 



12 sour apples. 


1-2 a cup of currant jelly. 


I mild onion. 


2 cups of sugar. 


3 peppers, one red. 


The juice of four lemons. 


I cup of seeded and chopped 


I tablespoonful of ground ginger 


raisins. 


1-4 a teaspoonful of cayenne. 


I pint of cider vinegar. 


I tablespopnfulof salt. 



Chop the apples, onion and peppers very fine; add the 
vinegar and jelly and let simmer one hour, stirring often; 
add the other ingredients and cook another hour, stirring 
constantly. Store as canned fruit. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP 

Pick over, wash and drain one peck of Coprinus comatus; 
slice and put over the fire in a saucepan with one cup of 
water. Cook until mushrooms are soft, stirring often. Press 
through a sieve. Tc the pulp add one pint of vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, two 
tablespoonfuls of mustard, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
half a teaspoonful of mace, and half a tablespoonful of cloves. 
Cook about half an hour longer, then bottle and seal. 



S86 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

one side of the pan. When sufficiently tender, drain and 
cover with a syrup made of sugar and water, each equal in 
weight to the weight of the nuts, and a piece of a vanilla 
bean. Keep hot without boiling two hours. Drain off half 
the syrup, reduce about one-half, pour over the nuts and 
keep hot one hour. Drain off all syrup, strain and reduce a 
little, and, when cold, pour over the nuts. If the syrup sugars 
when cold, add a little hot water, let boil and use. Store in 
tightly closed jars a« in canning. 

STRAWBERRY-TOMATO PRESERVE 

Cook the yellow rind of a lemon and the seeded pulp, cut 
in slices, 'and a bit of ginger root in boiling water, until the 
water is well flavored with lemon and ginger, then strain. 
For each pound of tomatoes, removed from the husks, take 
half a pound of sugar and a cup of the flavored water; heat 
to the boiling point and skim, then add the tomatoes, cook 
until scalded thoroughly, then skim into jars. Boil the syrup 
until thick, adding to it a few slices of lemon, selecting lemons 
that are not bitter, and with it fill the jars to overflowing. 
Cover securely. 

BOTTLED CURRANTS 

Mix together fine granulated sugar and dry currants, 
freed from the stems, in the proportion of one pound and a 
fourth of sugar to one pound of fruit. With a wooden mallet 
crush the currants until every fruit is broken. Fill preserv- 
ing jars to overflowing with mixture. Adjust the rubbers 
and turn the covers down tightly. These being uncooked 
have the flavor of fresh currants. 

RHUBARB-AND-FIG PRESERVE 

6 pounds of rhubarb, cut in 3 lemons, juice and grated rind. 

short lengths. i pound of candied orange p>eeL 

I pound of figs, cut in pieces. 5 pounds of sugar. 

Put the fruit and sugar into a preserving kettle, in layers, 
and let stand over night. Cook slowly about one hour. 



STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE GLACE. (Sec 



MOULDS FOR FROZEN 



FREEZING 



597 



Cream 
Ices. 



Ices. " 



Frozen ( Philadelphia, 
with I Neapolitan. 

f Parfait. 
^ Biscuit. 
I Mousse. 



stirring. 

Frozen 

without 

stirring. 



Water 
Ices. 



Sherbet. 
Granite. 
Frappe. 
Punch. 



Besides these, mention may be made of frozen custards, 
frozen puddings, milk sherbets, souffles and frozen fruits. 
Some idea of the magnitude of the subject can be obtained 
from the fact that there are above a hundred varieties of 
iced puddings known to French cooks, while the number 
of ice-creams and water ices is limited only by the imagina- 
tion of the one compounding them. 

The cost of the simpler forms of these desserts is not large, 
if they can be prepared at home ; and the labor involved in 
preparing them is considered great only by those who make 
them infrequently. Now that the patent freezer has reduced 
the time of freezing to a minimum, the crushing of the ice 
is the most objectionable feature in the operation. 

For home use nothing, as yet, has been devised by which 
the ice can be so well and easily crushed as by the use of 
the canvas bag and mallet. With the ice crushed and de- 
posited in a large pail, and with the command of a sink 
sufficiently large to hold the freezer and pail of ice, the pack- 
ing, freezing, and moulding, when the latter is required, 
may be done quickly and without confusion or disorder. 
If the ice is to be served at the noon-day meal, it is well to 
cook the cream or syrup, of which it is to be made, so that 
it may be thoroughly cold before it is turned into the can 
of the freezer. 

FREEZING 

When coarse salt and ice of about the same size are mixed, 
the salt melts the ice to unite with it, which, in turn, dis- 



598 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

solves the salt, so that both solids are changed to liquids. 
This change requires a large amount of heat, which is ab- 
sorbed from the can of mixture placed in the ice and salt. 
By the cold thus produced the mercury will sink below zero. 
Snow is particularly good for freezing purposes, but a little 
water should be mixed with it, in order to start the melting 
process. The best ice is porous, called snow ice. Such ice, 
being filled with air cells, is more readily acted upon by the 
salt. As the melting ice and salt are colder than the mixture 
of ice and salt, it is a mistake to draw off the water as fast 
as it is formed. But, when the ice floats upon the surface 
of the water, the melting process, and consequently the 
freezing process, is at its maximum, and the water, which 
from this point begins to rise in temperature, should now 
be drawn off and, if necessary, the mixture should be re- 
packed. 

PROPORTIONS OF ICE AND SALT 

The proportion of ice to salt depends upon the texture 
desired in the article to be frozen: the larger the proportion 
of ice, the slower will be the freezing process and the smoother 
and finer-grained will be the frozen product. Hence, in freez- 
ing creams and sherbets, which are to be firm, velvety, and 
fine-grained, one measure of salt to three of ice is used; 
while in freezing "frapp^s" and "granites," which should 
be granular and coarse-grained, only two measures of ice to 
one of salt are employed. 

In repacking a frozen mixture to keep it frozen, less salt 
may be used. In packing a mousse or a parfait, wliich is 
unfrozen, use one measure of ice to one of salt. 

Creams freeze in a shorter time than sherbets, the syrup, 
which forms the foundation of the sherbet, retarding the 
process. We make use of this fact in adding fruits to frozen 
dishes, as in puddings, tutti-frutti, etc. • If wines and liquors 
be used, the fruit is soaked for some hours, or over night, 
in the spirits ; and, as alcohol does not freeze, the saturated 
fruit is thus kept from freezing also. Where spirits are not 
desired, the fruit may be soaked in a very rich, heavy syrup. 



NEAPOLITAN CREAM ICE 599 



PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM 

This is a product of American invention, and is but little 
known abroad. In this country it is considered the choicest 
kind of ice cream. When properly made it consists entirely 
of sweetened and flavored cream, the flavor giving the spe- 
cific name to the variety. The cream, which should not be 
too rich, may be scalded or not, as it suits the individual 
taste. It will expand more in freezing, if it be not cooked, 
giving an ice of light, flufl[y texture, but of raw taste; what 
is gained in quantity is lost in quality. Cooking the cream 
obviates all danger of curdling, in case of atmospheric changes, 
and gives a firm, close-grained, velvety ice, which cuts like 
jelly. In scalding the cream, as in all dishes where milk or 
cream is called for, use a double boiler, or a pail set into a 
kettle of hot water. The cream is scalded, when tiny bubbles 
appear around the edge of the milk close to the vessel. Dis- 
solve the sugar in the hot cream and when cold add the 
flavoring; in case an extract be used, one tablespoonful to 
each quart of cream will be needed. 

In making a fruit cream — strawberry, raspberry, peach, 
etc. — ^the fruit should be mashed, mixed with sugar or syrup 
and, after standing an hour, added to the cream when the 
latter is partly or wholly frozen. The quantity of sweeten- 
ing to be used depends upon the acidity of the fruit. Straw- 
l^erries and peaches may be pressed through a potato ricer, 
but raspberries must be sifted through a sieve fine enough 
to keep back the seeds. If the berries or fruit be not ex- 
ceptionally fine-flavored, the juice of a lemon is re- 
quired. When cream is not plentiful, milk and double 
cream, four parts of the former to one of the latter, 
jellied with junket tablets, or liquid rennet, give an 
article that approaches very nearly to the genuine Phila- 
delphia ice cream. 

NEAPOLITAN CREAM ICE 

This ice is universally served in England and on the con- 
tinent of Europe. It is made of cream, or rich milk, and 



i 



6oo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

yolks of eggs in proportion from six to twelve for each quart 
of cream. One cup of sugar or syrup is allowed for each 
quart of cream and another for each dozen of yolks. Beat 
the yolks till light-colored and thick, add the sugar and 
beat again; then add to the cream in the double boiler and 
cook as a boiled custard, till the mixture coats the spoon. 
Strain the mixture at once into a dish set in cold water; 
when it has become ice-cold, flavor and freeze. 

Sometimes starchy material, as arrowroot or cornstarch, 
is used in the place of part of the eggs ; in this case it is better 
to mix such material with a little cold cream or milk and 
cook it in the hot cream for ten or fifteen minutes before 
adding the sugar and yolks of the eggs. 

The Neapolitan method of making creams is considered 
best adapted to vanilla, coffee, chocolate, caramel, and the 
various nut creams. In Europe, fruit flavors are thought 
not to harmonize with eggs, which are an essential part of 
all their creams ; but any of the fruit pulps may be added to 
a Neapolitan cream with good results. 

PARFAIT, MOUSSE AND BISCUIT QLACB 

These delicious ices are all frozen without stirring, the 
peculiar texture of each being occasioned by freezing whipped 
cream. They are always moulded, and sherbets are fre- 
quently combined with them, either as the lining of the 
mould or as a layer of filling. 

BISCUIT GLACE AND INDIVIDUAL ICES 

Biscuit g\sLc6 are moulded in individual moulds and are 
often served covered with a meringue. Individual creams 
and sherbets alone or in combination are also served in 
paper boxes, in shells of meringue, or in baskets of nougat. 
They are also shaped in individual lead tnoulds in the form 
of fruits or flowers. As these latter are frozen very hard 
and cannot be served in perfection without standing some 
time, after being moulded, in some sort of an ice "cave," 
also as they are usually tinted quite carefully to simulate 
some particular otjject, they are generally considered too 



WATER ICES 6oi 

troublesome to prepare with home conveniences, Paper- 
cases, after being filled, are set aside closely packed, in layers 
with paper between, in a receptacle closed tightly to keep out 
salt water, in ice and salt for an hour or more. 

FROZEN PUDDING 

A frozen pudding is made of either Philadelphia or Nea- 
politan cream highly flavored> and contains many preserved 
fruits and nuts. It is usually moulded in a melon mould, 
lined with lady fingers. Both the frozen pudding and iced 
soufH^s are served with a sauce, or with whipped cream, 
sweetened or flavored. 

WATER ICES 

Water ices are composed principally of S5rrup or sugar 
and fruit juice. Of this class of ices sherbets are the best 
known. There are simple and compound sherbets. The 
simple sherbet contains but one kind of fruit juice, though 
the juice of a lemon is usually added to each quart of syrup, 
in order to accentuate or bring out the flavor of the fruit; 
the compound sherbet contains the juice of two or more 
kinds of fruit. In a raspberry sherbet half a cup of currant 
juice is often used in the place of lemon juice. 

The method of making a fine-grained sherbet — one that 
will keep frozen as long as a cream ice — is as follows: To 
sugar syrup at 28° by the syrup gauge add fruit juice to 
bring the density down to 20°, then add one teaspoonful of 
gelatine, softened in two tables poonfuls of cold water and 
melted over hot water. When the mixture is frozen, add 
to a gallon of sherbet a meringue made of the stiff-beaten 
white of an egg and one tabicspoonful of hot sugar syrup 
or powdered sugar. It is more trouble to make the meringue 
of the syrup, but it is richer and more creamy than the iner- 
ingtie made of uncooked sugar. 

In Europe most delicious sherbets are made of pure fruit 
juice and sugar, no water being used. The sugar is simply 
stirred into the fruit juice and, when it is thoroughly dis- 



I 

! 602 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

solved, the mixture is frozen. On account of the absence of 
 water this form of sherbet is also smooth and fine-grained 

In making granites and frapp^, water is added to fniit 

juice and sugar and the mixture is frozen without cooking; 

the gelatine and meringue finish are also omitted. The omis- 
, sion of these things, together with the fact that water is 

used uncooked, tends to make these ices more or less granular 
! and crystalline in texture. They are served in cups when 

j only half frozen, and they melt very quickly. 

Punches are water ices to which lic^juors are added, usually 

after the ices are frozen. Lemon and pineapple ice are con- 
I sidered the most suitable for this purpose. They are also 

I finished with meringue. 

i 

METHOD OP FREEZING 

When a freezer with a crank is used and the chilled mix- 
ture, of whatever kind it may be, is packed for freezing, the 
amount of salt and ice being proportioned according to the 
texture desired, turn the crank slowly and steadily until 
it becomes difficult to turn it longer. Open the can, remove 
the dasher, scrape the hardened mixture from the sides of 
the can, and beat it with a perforated wooden spoon till 
smooth; close the can, put the cork in the cover, draw off 
the brine, and add fresh ice and salt, covering the top with 
the same. Then cover the freezer with a piece of carpet or 
a blanket and allow the frozen mixture to stand two hours 
or longer, to ** ripen." When a freezer without a crank is 
employed, the mixture is scraped from the sides of the can, 
to which it adheres in freezing, with a wooden spatula, and 
beaten thoroughly two or three times in the half-hour which 
is needed for freezing. 

MOULDING 

When ice is to be served from a mould, have the mould 
ready, chilled and partly buried in salt and ice; then, when 
the frozen mixture has' been well beaten, fill the mould 
solidly in every part, heaping the mixture a little above the 
brim; cover with a piece of wrapping-paper, a little larger 



SERVING ICES 603 

than the top of the mould, over this press the cover down 
tightly, and bury the mould in ice and salt, using four parts 
of ice to one of salt. When ready to serve, wash the motdd 
with cold water, to remove the brine, and wipe perfectly 
dry: take off the cover and the paper, invert the mould on 
a dish and, if the room be warm, the tin may be slipped 
from the ice in a few moments. If the mould be put into 
warm or hot water, the ice melts upon the outside and pre- 
sents an unsightly appearance. 

Sometimes two or more kinds of cream, or sherbets, are 
placed in moulds, in even layers; when two kinds are used, 
an ice panachde results ; if there be three, an ice harlequin 
results. When cream of two or more colors is arranged by 
spoonfuls without order, it is fashioned in pompadour style. 

When ices of two colors, either sherbets or creams, or a 
cream and a sherbet, are repacked in a melon or bombe mould, 
one as a lining, the other as a centre, the ice is called a bombe 
glac6. 

SERVING ICES 

For individual service, handsome glass or china cups, 
either with or without a saucer, are provided. These are 
quite generally used for punch, frapp6 or sherbet, or for 
ice cream that is served with a sauce. 

Meringues and paper cases provide a favorite means of 
serving individual ices. Meringues are filled just before 
serving; the cases after being filled are set aside closely packed 
in a receptacle that is closed tightly to keep out saltwater, 
in equal parts of ice and salt for an hour or more. To serve, 
set the filled case inside a larger and more ornamental case. 
At serving, sprinkle with macaroon crumbs, sliced or 
chopped pistachio nuts, candied violets, etc. 

Ices frozen in moulds are often dressed on a foundation of 
ice — i. e., water tinted with vegetable colors, and frozen in 
moulds designed for the purpose, then unmoulded on a serv- 
ing dish covered with lace paper. An ice thus raised from 
the dish is displayed to advantage. A figure often surmounts 
the ice, the whole being covered with spun sugar. In winter 



6o4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

these blocks will freeze over night if left standing in tbe 
open air. The National Baker recently published the fol- 
lowing formula for freezing these stands in summer: "Let 
the moulds stand buried four hours in a mixture of salt, 
saltpetre and ice, in the proportion of two pounds of salt and 
four ounces of saltpetre to six or eight pounds of crushed ice." 
Plain cream ices and frozen puddings are served sur- 
rounded by whipped cream, a rich sauce, fruit pur6e iced, 
or preserved fruit. Old-fashioned preserved ginger that 
comes in jars is appropriately served with lemon ice cream. 

RECIPES FOR ICES THAT ARE STIRRED WHILE 

FREEZING 

PHILADELPHIA CREAM ICE. (VANILLA) 

I cup of sugar, or 1-2 a vanilla bean, or 

I 1-2 cups of symp at 28** i tablespoonful of vanilla 

by the syrup gauge. extract. 

I quart of thin cream. 

Scald the cream and sugar with the vanilla bean; let cool 
and freeze according to directions given above. If vanilla 
extract be used, add just before freezing. A novel and par- 
ticularly good way of serving this cream is in small melons, 
the size of a breakfast cup. Cut out a rotmd cover, remove 
the seeds, fill with cream and replace the cover. The melons 
should be previously chilled. 

NEAPOLITAN CI^EAM ICE. (VANILLA) 

I pint of milk and 6 to 12 yolks of eggs. 

I pint of cream, or 1-2 a vanilla bean, or 

I quart of rich, creamy milk. i tablespoonful of vanilla 

extract. 

(See Neapolitan cream ice, page 599.) 

CREAM ICE WITH JUNKET. (VANILLA) 

I cup of double cream. i Junket tablet dissolved in 

I cup of sugar, or i tablespoonful of cold water. 

I 1-2 cups of syrup at 28° i tablespoonful of vanilla ex- 

by the syrup gauge. tract. 

I quart of milk. 



FRUIT CREAM ICES 605 

Heat the milk with the sugar or syrup until just lukewarm, 
not over 100° F. ; remove from the fire, stir in the dissolved 
tablet and the flavoring, and let stand undisturbed in a warm 
room until the mixture jellies ; let chill, then pour intto the 
can of the freezer and freeze as usual. 

CREAM ICE WITH CORNSTARCH OR ARROWROOT 

(VANILLA) 

This form of cream ice is in reality a sweetened and fla- 
vored white sauce. If cream be not at hand and rich milk 
be used, the ice is improved by beating into it while hot 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, a little at a time. 

I pint of rich milk. i pintofcreAm. 

I cup of sugar. Yolks of three or more eggs. 

I level tablespoonful of com- 1-2 a vanilla bean, or 

starch or arrowroot. i tablespoonful of vanilla. 

• Scald the milk and stir into it the cornstarch or arrow- 
root, mixed with half of the sugar; stir constantly until 
thickened slightly, then occasionally for about fifteen min- 
utes ; beat the yolks of eggs, add the other half of the sugar 
and beat again; then mix with a little of the hot mixture, 
and when well blended stir into the hot mixture; add the 
cream and strain. When cold add the flavor and freeze. 

FRUIT CREAM ICES 

1. Crush the fruit or berries to a pulp; add the juice of 
half a lemon to each pint of pulp and sweeten to taste with 
sugar syrup (28° by the syrup gauge); add to any of the 
creams given above when half frozen; finish freezing and 
packing as usual. The best result is obtained by the use 
of syrup. With peaches and apricots retain the vanilla fla- 
voring. With strawberries, raspberries and cherries it may 
be omitted. 

2. Mix one quart of strawberry, cherry or raspberry juice 
and one quart of thin cream with two cups or one pound of 
su-g^r; strain and freeze. For apricots and peaches mix a 
quart, "each, of fruit pulp and thin cream and three cups 
of sugar syrup, registering 28° by the syrup gauge, in which 



6o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the blanched kernels and one-fourth a vanilla bean have 
been infused; then freeze as usual. Pineapple juice 
needs be scalded before it is added to the cream, to 
avoid the bitter taste that would otherwise be occasioned 
by the action of the digestive principle in the pineapple. 
This bitter taste is even more pronounced when eggs or milk 
are used, either of which contains more of the proteid prin- 
ciple that is digested by the pineapple than does cream. 
Fruit ices are often improved in appearance by the addition 
of a little color paste, to heighten the tint of the Truit, which 
has been lessened by the addition of the cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM ICE 

Make a vanilla cream by any of the recipes given above ; 
while this is hot stir into it from two to four ounces of choco- 
late, melted over the teakettle and stirred smooth by the 
gradual addition of a little of the hot cream. When eggs 
or other thickening is used, add after the chocolate. A piece 
of stick cinnamon, scalded in the milk or cream, gives a 
rich, spicy taste that is a great improvement to this ice. 
Strain the mixture before freezing. 

CARAMEL CREAM ICE 

I pint of milk. 6 egg yolks. 

I 1-4 cups of sugar. i pint of cream. 

Cook three-fourths a cup of sugar to the caramel stage, 
345° to 3So° F. (See page 33.) Remove at once from the fire 
and, while it is a golden brown color, pour onto an oiled 
marble or platter to cool; then pound quite fine and add to 
the milk, scalded over hot water; beat the yolks of the eggs 
with the rest of the sugar and a few grains of salt and, when 
the caramel is dissolved, cook these in the hot milk imtil the 
mixture coats the spoon; add the cream and strain, or reserve 
the cream until the custard is cold. A tablespoonful of vanilla 
may be added if desired. If preferred, boiling water may 
be poured into the caramel and the liquid caramel then 
poured into the milk. 



FIG CREAM ICE 607 

BURNT ALMOND CREAM ICE 

Prepare as the above, adding a cup of blanched almonds, 
cut small and browned in the oven, to the caramel just as 
it is taken from the fire; pound the cooled mixture very 
smooth, adding a little cream if needed. Strain or not, as 
desired, before freezing. 

PISTACHIO CREAM ICE, NO. z 

Make a vanilla cream ice by any of the recipes given above ; 
for each tablespoonful of vanilla extract used add one 
teaspoonful of almond extract. Tint with green vegetable 
color paste. 

PISTACHIO CREAM ICE, NO. a 

Scald a pint of milk with the thin yellow rind of half an 
orange carefully washed; beat six yolks of eggs with a cup 
and a fourth (lo ounces) of sugar and cook in the hot milk 
until the mixture coats the spoon; add one-fourth a pound 
of fresh-peeled pistachio nuts and an ounce of candied citron, 
pounded smooth, with a cup of cream; when cold add a 
pint of cream and tint delicately with vegetable green color 
paste; strain through a fine sieve and freeze. 

SULTANA ROLL WITH CLARET SAUCE 

Line a cylindrical mould (water tight, pound-size empty 
baking powder boxes answer the purpose) with a pistachio 
cream ice^ sprinkle the inside with sultana raisins cooked 
tender in sugar syrup at about 32° by the syrup gauge, fill 
the centre with Charlotte Russe filling (page 617), cover with 
pistachio cream ice and let stand an hour, packed in equal 
measures of ice and salt. Serve in slices with a claret sauce. 
The raisins may also be soaked in spirits. 

FIG CREAM ICE 

Into an unflavored cream ice, made by any of the formulas, 
beat when frozen a cup of cooked figs, chopped fine, passed 
through a sieve and mixed with the juice of half a lemon 



6o« PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and three or four tablespoonfuls of sherry. A plain vanilla, 
caramel or lemon cream ice is particularly good served with 
stewed bag figs. 

GINGER CREAM ICE 

Add to three pints of plain cream ice, made by any of the 
recipes given above, when nearly frozen, a cup of preserved 
ginger, chopped fine, pounded in a mortar, passed through 
a sieve and mixed with three-fourths a cup of sherry wine; 
then finish freezing and let stand an hour or more before 
serving. 

COFFEE CREAM ICE 

To any one of the four recipes given for vanilla cream ice 
add two-thirds a cup of clear black coffee in the place of 
vanilla. 

CREAM ICE WITH NUTS OR MACAROONS. (BISQUE) 

To the recipe for Neapolitan cream ice, when frozen, beat 
in a generous cup of either chopped nuts or powdeited and 
sifted macaroons. 

TUTTI FRUTTI CREAM ICE 

To any of the recipes given for vanilla cream ice add« 
when frozen, six ounces — ^nearly a cup — of candied cherries, 
apricots, pineapple, etc., softened in hot syrup, or soaked in 
spirits, then drained and chilled. 

PLUM PUDDING GLACE 

To a chocolate cream ice, that made with eggs preferred* 
add when frozen a generous half-poimd of fruit — sultana 
raisins, cleaned currants, slices of citron *and French 
candied fruit cut small. Cook until .very tender in a heavy 
syrup, or let stand over night in Jamaica rum to cover, then 
drain and chill. When well mixed with the ice, put into a 
melon mould, lined with lady fingers, and pack in three parts 
of ice to one of salt. Let stand an hour. Serve with whipj^d 
cream, sweetened and flavored, or with a sauce. The lining 
of lady fingers may be omitted. 



I 



VANILLA SAUCE FOR CREAM ICE 609 



NESSELRODB PUDDING 

JO large chestnuts. 2 ounces of preserved pineapple. 

The yolks of four eggs. 2 ounces of currants. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. i cup of whipped cream. 

1 pint of scalded cream. Sugar syrup or maraschino to 

2 ounces of raisins. cover thd fruit. 

Cook the chestnuts, peeled and blanched (see page 34), 
in synlp sugar, at 16° by the gauge, to cover until tender. 
Cut six of the chestnuts in small pieces and press the rest 
through a sieve. 

Cook the raisins and currants in syrup at 16° until plump 
and tender; add the pieces of chestnut and pineapple and 
Jet cool in the syrup. 

Cook the yolks and sugar, beaten together, in the scalded 
cream until the mixture coats the spoon; add the sifted 
chestnuts and press the whole through a fine sieve. When 
this is cold, partly freeze, then add the cup of whipped cream 
and finish freezing; beat in the fruit and nuts drained from 
the syrup and pack in a fancy mould ; press the cover in place 
over a piece of wrapping paper and let stand in ice and salt 
an hour. Serve with a rich, boiled custard, whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored, or a pudding sauce. 

SAUCB FOR FROZEN PUDDING, NESSELRODB PUDDING, 

" ETC. 

Beat the yolks of three egss until thick; add three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar and beat again. Stir over the 
fire in a double-boiler until the mixture thickens a little. 
Then pour into a cold dish and beat until it is cold, light 
and creamy. Flavor to suit the taste, and then mix in lightly 
a cup and a half of cream whipped to a dry, stiff froth. 

VANILLA SAUCE FOR CHOCOLATE OR STRAWBERRY 

CREAM ICE, NO. z 

Cook two cups of water and one cup of sugar ten minutes; 
add one teaspoonful of granulated gelatine softened in three 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, strain and chill. When ready 



6io PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

to use add one teaspoonful of vanilla extract and one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

VANILLA SAUCE FOR CHOCOLATE OR STRATVBBRRT 

CREAM ICE, NO. a 

To a pint of single cream add one-half a cup of syrup, at 
from 32° to 35° by- the syrup gauge, and one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE FOR VANILLA OR LEMON CREAM 

ICE 

Hoil three-fourths a cup of sugar with half a cup of water 
ten minutes ; let cool and when ready to serve add a pint of 
chilled strawberry juice and pulp. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR VANILLA CREAM ICE 

Melt an ounce of chocolate over hot water and add one 
cup of sugar and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and, gradu- 
ally, a cup and a half of boiling water; stir and cook five 
minutes after boiling begins, then add half a teaspoonful 
of gelatine softened in cold water to cover, strain, and when 
cold add a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. A level teaspoon- 
ful of arrowroot, smoothed in a little water and cooked five 
minutes in the syrup, may take the place of the gelatine. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE, NO. 2 

Melt an ounce and a half of chocolate over hot water; 
gradually add half a cup of hot syrup (from 32*^ to 35®) and 
stir in a cup of hot cream; strain and when cool add to a 
second cup of cream whipped stiff. Flavor with half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP FOR VANILLA CREAM ICR 

I ounce of chocolate. 2 inches of stick cinnamon. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 2 cups of sugar less three table- 

I cup of boiling water. spoonfuls. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water; add three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and the boiling water gradually, stirring mean- 



••^T' 



STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE GLACE 6ii 

while; when smooth and glossy add the sugar and cinnamon 
and stir until boiling begins; let boil five minutes, strain, 
cool and add the vanilla. Serve with vanilla ice cream. A 
sherbet cup is the most convenient dish for serving ice 
cream with a syrup sauce. 

COFFEE SAUCE FOR VANILLA OR LEMON CREAM ICE 

Make a boiled custard of a cup of clear, black coffee, the 
yolks of three eggs and one-third a cup of sugar; when cold 
add a cup of thick cream. 

CURRANT SAUCE FOR SULTANA ROLL 

Sweeten currant juice, strained through a jelly bag with 
a little lemon juice, with sugar, or syrup at 32° by the syrup 
gauge. Or, boil one cup of sugar and one-fourth a cup of 
water six minutes; let cool and add half a cup of currant 
juice and one tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

HOT MAPLE SAUCE FOR VANILLA OR LEMON CREAM 

ICE 

Boil two cups of maple syrup and one-fourth a cup, each, 
of condensed milk and hot water to the thread degree. Pour 
^v^yhile hot over a service of cream. Half a cup of cream or 
one-fourth a cup of butter may be substituted for the con- 
densed milk and water. 

CLARET SAUCE FOR SULTANA ROLL 

Boil one cup of sugar and one-third a cup of water seven 
or eight minutes; let cool and add one-third a cup of claret. 

CREAM ICES WITH VARIATIONS 
STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE GLACE 

Prepare a strawberry cream ice by any of the recipes 
given. When frozen pack in a Charlotte Russe mould lined 
-witli lady fingers, put into a freezing box or pail, with water- 
tigtk^ cover, and let stand an hour. To serve, turn from the 
jnotxld onto a dish with lace paper doily; garnish with un- 
htxlled berries. 



6i2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PEACH CREAM ICE EN SURPRISE 

I 1-4 cups of sugar. Rose color paste. 

I. quart of thin cream. Sliced peaches. 

1 cup of peach pulp. Sugar or syrup to sweeten. 

1-2 a vanilla bean or Whipped cream. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 5 drops of almond extract. 

Scald the cream with the vanilla bean, if at hand; wlvw 
cold add the sugar dissolved in the peach pulp (peacHes 
pared and pressed through a sieve) and the extract; freeze 
as usual, then tint delicately with the color paste and use 
to line a two-quart melon ujould to the depth of an inch 
and a half. Reserve enough of the ice to cover the top of 
the mould, and to the rest add an equal quantity, each, of 
sliced peaches, chilled, mixed with sugar or syrup to sweeten, 
and whipped cream measured after whipping. Use as a 
filling for the centre of the mould; cover this with the ice 
cream reserved for the purpose, filling the aiould to over- 
flow; press down the cover over a piece of wrapping paper 
and let stand buried in ice and salt on^ bour. Avoid longer 
packing, lest the fruit be frozen too har Strawberries are 
particularly good if not allowed to stan 'oo long. Beforr 
adding the fruit to the centre, a second j .:;)g of lady fingeis 
or angel cakelets may be used. Or, the i- * may be sprinkled 
with noyau or curacoa before being r . I with the other 
ingredients. 

BANANAS EN SURPRISK ^ 

I quart of thin cream. 1-3 a cup >t syrup registering 28* 

I cup of sugar. by the syrup gauge. 

The yellow rind of half a lemon. Juice of half a lemon. • ' 

I cup of banana pulp. Salpicon of candied fruit. 

(Cherries, pineapple*, etc.) 

Scald the cream with the rind and sugar, strain, let cool 
and partially freeze; then add the banana pulp mixed with 
.the syrup and lemon juice and finish freezing. Have ready 
chilled, fresh-looking banana skins, injured as little as pos- 
sible in rertioving the pulp ; fill these with the frozen mixture, 
putting a spoonful of the salpicon in the centre of each; 



PEACH SHERBET 613 . 

w 

press the strip of skin back in place and set aside in a freez- 
ing box — an ice creanfi mould or tin pail with tight-fitting 
cover will answer — buiied in equal parts of ice and salt an 
hour. For the salpicon, cut the fruit in small pieces, mix 
with a little thick syrup, at about 35° by syrup gauge, flavored 
to taste. 

CHOCOLATE BOMBE WITH FRUIT 

Line a melon mould with chocolate cream ice; fill the 
centre with Charlotte Russe mixture to which has been added 
three-fourths a cup of French fruit, cut fine, cooked and 
cooled in syrup or soaked in rum or sherry and then drained. 
Let stand an hour packed in equal measures of ice and salt. 

WATER ICES 
SHERBETS FROM PRESERVED FRUITS 

Add water to the syrup drained from the fruit until, when 
tested with the syrup gauge, it registers 20°; add the fruit 
crushed or cut into bits, also to a pint of syrup the juice of • 
from a half to a whole lemon as is needed to bring out the \ 
particular flavor, then freeze as usual. When canned fruit " 
is used, add syrup, if needed, so that the fruit syrup shall 
register 28°, then add water to reduce to 2d^. 

PEACH SHERBET FROM FRESH FRUIT (ITALIAN 

.^ METHOD) 

I quart of peach ptdp. 11-2 cup^f sugar, or sugar'syrup 
I cup of orange juice. at 3 2° "to bring the density 

Juice of one lemon. of the mixture to 20° by 

^ \jthe syrup gauge. 

A- .X and freeze as usual. ^ 

PEACH SHERBET (AMERICAN METHOD) 

1 quart of water. , 10 peach kernels. 

2 cups of sugar. ' The juice of two oranges. 
I teaspoonful of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 

I pint of peach pulp. • 

Boil the wWer, peach kernels and sugar twenty minutes; 
add the gelatine softened in two tablespoonfuls of cold water 
and strain. When cold add the peach pulp (peaches pared, 



> 



V 



6i4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

stoned and the pulp passed through a ricer or sieve), the 
orange and lemon juice. Freeze as usual and serve from the 
freezer or mould. 

ORANGE SHERBET WITH SYRUP 

To any qantity of sugar syrup registering 28° by the syrup 
gauge, add fruit juice to bring the density down to 20®; add 
also the juice of a lemon for each quart of mixture. One 
cup of lemon juice, or two cups of orange, strawberry or 
peach pulp and juice, will be required to reduce the density 
of about two cups and a half of syrup at 28° to 20*^. To make 
this quantity of syrup boil one pint (one pound of sugar) 
and one quart (one pound) of water twenty minutes. Add 
to this quantity of mixture, before freezing, a teaspoonful 
of gelatine, softened in cold water and dissolved over hot 
water, or beat into it when frozen a meringue made by beat- 
ing one-fourth a cup of syrup at the thread degree into the 
white of an egg beaten until foamy. 

COFFEE SHERBET 

3-4 a cup of fresh ground coffee. 11-2 cups of sugar or 

1-2 a cup of cold water. a 1-4 cups of syrup at 28** by 

The white and crushed shell of one syrup gauge. 

egg. 2 teaspoonf uls of granulated gela- 
6 cups of boiling water. tine softened in cold water. 

Mix the ground coffee with the egg and cold water; add 
the boiling water and let boil three minutes; strain, add 
the gelatine and strain again over the sugar or syrup; let 
cool and freeze. Cream in some form should be served with 
this sherbet. If served in sherbet cups, a spoonful of whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored before whipping, may be added 
to each cup. A handsome dish results, when the sherbet is 
used as the lining of a bombe or melon mould, the centre of 
which is filled with Charlotte Russe filling or vanilla cream ice. 

GRAPE SHERBET 

I quart of water. i pint of grape juice. 

I pint of sugar. The juice of two lemons. 

I teaspoonful of gelatine. 
Proceed as usual. 



COCOA FRAPPE 615 

PINEAPPLE CREAM IN PINEAPPLE SHELL 

3 cups of water. i cup of double cream. 

I pint of shredded pinedpple. 1-4 a cup of syrup at 32° by 

I pint of sugar. syrup gauge, or 

1 teaspoonful of gelatine. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

The juice of two lemons. 

Boil the first three ingredients twenty minutes; add the 
gelatine, softened in cold water, and when cold add the lemon 
juice; strain and freeze to a mush; then add the cream and 
syrup or sugar beaten solid, fill into the chilled shell of a 
pineapple, set in a dish from which salt water may be ex- 
cluded and bury in ice and salt about an hour. 

FRUIT CUP 

Let slices of peeled peaches, bits of prepared pineapple, 
stoned cherries, peeled plums, white grapes, seeded and 
skinned, and orange sections stand in their own juice and 
syrup at 35° by the gauge, surrounded by ice until thoroughly 
chilled. To serve, dispose in tall wine glasses and cover 
with a few spoonfuls of fruit sherbet flavored to taste. 

FRAPPES 

These ices are served half frozen (an icy granular texture 
is preferred); to insure this, no gelatine is used and sugar 
instead of syrup is usually employed. Equal measures of 
ice and salt also tend to secure this condition. Serve from 
a punch bowl in cups. 

COCOA FRAPPE 

1-2 a pound of cocoa. The whites of two eggs. 

3 cups of sugar. i cup of sugar. 

2 cups of boiling water. i pint of whipped cream. 

31-2 quarts of scalded milk. i vanilla bean or four tablespoon- 

Cinnamon bark. fids of vanilla extract. 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the hot water gradually 
and cook until smooth, then stir into the milk scalded with 
the cinnamon bark and vanilla bean; let cook, stirring oc- 
casionally, ten minutes; let cool, add the flavoring, if needed, 
and when partly frozen add the cream beaten stiff and mixed 
-vvith the beaten whites of the eggs, to which the sugar has 



6i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

been added, and finish freezing. Serve in cups with or with- 
out whipped cream, sweetened and flavored before whipping. 

COFFEE FRAPPE 

Dissolve three-fourths a cup of sugar in a quart of clear, 
black coffee and freeze. Serve in frapp^ cups or glasses with 
whipped cream as a garnish. A forcing bag with star tube 
is of assistance in placing the cream. 

CRANBERRY FRAPPE 

Boil one quart of cranberries in a pint of water five or six 
minutes and strain through a coarse cheesecloth; add the 
juice of two lemons and enough syrup, registering 28° by the 
syrup gauge, to bring the density of the mixture when well 
blended to 20°. Freeze to a mush. Serve in cups either with 
or after roast turkey. 

CANTELOUPE FRAPPE 

3 pints of canteloupe pulp. The juice of three lemons or 

2 cups of sugar. 1-3 a cup of lemon juice. 

Mix the pulp, sugar and lemon juice and pass through 
a very fine sieve. Freeze as usual. Serve from glass cups, or 
from the chilled rind of the melon shaped into a basket, 

FROZEN APRICOTS 

Remove the skins from the apricots in a quart can and 
cut the pulp in small pieces; add the juice, one quart of water 
and two cups of sugar and stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
Freeze and allow the mixture to stand an hour or two before 
it is served. 

BOMBE GLACE 

These handsome ices are very easily prepared. The hand- 
somest bombes are those in which there is a p>ronounced 
contrast in color between the mixtures on the outside and 
the inside of the bombes. Cream or water ices may be used 
in combination or separately. Bombes in which the lining 
is made of a sherbet and the centre of a Charlotte Russe 
filling are always attractive and offer a compromise between 



FRUIT CUP. (See page 6 



.4 



STRAWBERRY CANNELON GLACE 617 

the richness of a cream and the lack of it in a sherbet. In 
lining a mould, let the chilled mould stand in a pail of equal 
parts of ice and salt, then spread the frozen mixture evenly to 
the depth of an inch upon the inside of the mould, turn in the 
mixture for the centre, fcover with the frozen mixture used for 
the lining, filling the mould to overflow, spread a piece of 
wrapping paper over the top and press down the cover over it ; 
finish packing the mould and let stand an hour or two. If the 
mould is to stand several hours or over night in warm weather, 
omit the paper and after pressing the cover down tightly bind 
closely over the joining of cover and mould a strip of cotton 
cloth an inch wide that has been dipped in melted suet. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING 

The white of one egg. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla or 

1-3 a cup of powdered sugar. orange extract, or 

I cup of double cream. 2 tablespoonfuls of wine. 

Beat the white of egg until dry and add the sugar gradu- 
ally. Beat the cream with the flavoring until thick to the 
bottom of the bowl ; fold the two mixtures together. Other 
flavorings may be used: candied fruit cut small or chopped 
nuts may be added to the mixture. Chill before using. 
This quantity gives a generous filling for a three-pint mould. 

COMBINATIONS FOR BOMBE GLACE 

I. Strawberry, raspberry, orange or coff"ee sherbet and 
Charlotte Russe filling: The natural coloi of each of these 
gives a handsome contrast with the white of the cream. 
2. Lemon sherbet may be tinted pink with vegetable color 
paste or liquid. 3. The natural yellow of orange sherbet 
is changed to salmon by the use of a little pink color. 4. 
Pineapple sherbet tinted a delicate green with white or 
pink centre gives a pleasing contrast. 

In bombes made of creams, chocolate ice cream with Char- 
lotte Russe centre filled with candied fruit is one of the best. 

STRAWBERRY CANNELON GLACE 

Line a cylindrical mould with strawberry sherbet, page 
614, and fill the centre with Charlotte Russe mixture. 



6i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



RECIPES FOR ICES FROZEN WITHOUT STIRRING 

Parfaits, mousses, biscuits and souffles are the principal 
ices in this class. In each of these whipped cream is the 
principal ingredient. The freezing is»so conducted as to re- 
tain the open, mossy texture of the cream. On this account 
the whipped cream is carefully folded into the other ingre- 
dients, then turned into a mould or proper receptacle, and 
set aside to freeze without interference. Biscuits take their 
name from their size, being in reality parfaits frozen in in- 
dividual forms. Soufflds are parfaits, reinforced by gela- 
tine and a larger proportion of liquid and frozen in souffle 
dishes. A paper band, fastened above the dish and removed 
before serving, accentuates the idea of the souffle. 

After much investigation and thought, though not in 
harmony with the writings of many of the foremost chefs 
of the day, it seems best to let the use of eggs cooked with 
syrup as the foundation of an ice mark the line of division 
between parfaits and mousses. The parfaits, in which eggs 
and syrup are used, freeze more slowly than do the mousses 
prepared with sugar and gelatine and, in consequence, need 
stand packed in ice and salt a longer time, about four hoiirs. 
Neither should be frozen very hard. They do not slip from 
the mould as easily as ordinary ices, and for this reason, 
as also on account of improved appearance and taste, the 
mould containing them is often lined with sherbet or a fruit 
jelly. 

WHITE OR ANGEL PARFAIT ^ 

I cup of sugar. A scant tablespoonful of vanilla 

1-3 a cup of boiling water. extract or half a \'unina 

The whites of two eggs. bean steeped in the syrup. 

I pint of double cream. 

Joil the sugar and water to the thread degree and pour 
in a fine stream onto the whites of the eggs, beaten until 
foamy, beating constantly; when cold fold in the cream 
beaten solid, flavor, turn into a mould and let stand packed 
in equal measures of ice and salt four hours. When turned 



i 



CARAMEL PARFAIT 619 

from the mould sprinkle with candied violets, or garnish 
with fresh violets and leaves. 

GRAPE JUICE PARFAIT 

Same as white parfait, after substituting one-third a cup 
of grape juice for the boiling water and adding half a cup 
of grape juice and the juice of half a lemon to the cream 
before whipping. 

SUNSHINE PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. i tablespoonful or orange 

1-4 a cup of boiling water. extract. 

The yolks of six eggs. i pint of double cream. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread degree and pour 
in a fine stream onto the beaten yolks of the eggs; return 
to the fire and cook over hot water until the mixture coats 
the spoon; beat until cold and add the flavor and the cream 
beaten solid. Let stand packed in ice and salt about four 
hours after moulding. 

COFFEE PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. i pint of double cream. 

1-4 a cup of clear black coffee. 1-4 a cup of clear black coffee. 

The yolks of six eggs. 

See Sunshine parfait; add the second fourth cup of coffee 
to the cream before whipping. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT 

Add two or three ounces of melted chocolate to the syrup 
for Sunshine Parfait, before adding it to the yolks of eggs, 
and flavor with vanilla. A cup of French fruit, cut small, 
steeped in syrup and drained and then sprinkled into the 
mixture as it is put into the mould, improves this. 

CARAMEL PARFAIT 

I pint of double cream. The yolks of six eggs. 

1-2 a cup of granulated sugar i teaspoonful of vanilla if de- 

cararaelized. sired. 

1-2 a cup of granulated sugar. 1-2 a cup of hot brown almonds if 

1-3 a cup of boiling water. desired. 

Cook the sugar to caramel and dissolve in the boiling 
water; add the other half a cup of sugar and cook until the 



620 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

syrup threads; pour in a fine stream on to the yolks of the 
eggs, return to the fire over hot water and cook until the 
mixture coats the spoon, then beat until cold; fold in the 
cream, beaten solid, and finish as usual. 

GINGER PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. 3-4 a cup of preserved ginger 

1-4 a Clip of water. (root and sj^sup) . 

The whites of two eggs. i pint of double cream. 

Juice of a lemon. 

Make an Italian meringue (boiled frosting) with the sugar 
and water cooked to the thread degree, 215*^ F., and the 
whites of eggs (see page 464). When cold add the ginger, 
pounded in a mortar and sifted, and lemon juice to taste, 
then fold in the whipped cream; turn into a mould prepared 
as usual and let stand buried in equal measures of ice and 
salt three or four hours. 

MIGNONETTE PARFAIT (THE CATERER) 

Steep a cup (packed measure) of chopped mint leaves 
in a cup of cold water two hours. Heat to the boiling point, 
then strain and add to the strained water one cup of sugar 
and cook without stirring after boiling begins to the soft 
ball stage. Pour in a fine stream onto the whites of three 
eggs, beaten to a foam (but not dry), and beat until cold, 
the dish standing in ice water meanwhile. Add a teaspoonful 
of rose water, two teaspoon fuls of orange water and fold in 
a pint of cream beaten solid. Line a quart melon-shajjed 
mould with part of the mixture, tint that reserved with 
leaf-green color paste or spinach juice and use to fill the 
centre ; cover with the untinted cream, press the cover do¥m 
over a sheet of waxed paper (Wrapping paper answers nicely) 
and let the mould stand buried in equal measures of ice and 
salt four hours. When removed from the mould surround 
with sprigs of green mint and mignonette. The parfait itself 
when unmoulded exhales the odor of the flower that gives 
its name to the dish. 



MOUSSE 



621 



MAPLE PARFAIT 

I cup of hot maple syrup. i pint of double cream. 

The yolks of 8 eggs. 

Pour the hot syrup, without cooking to the thread stage, 
onto the beaten yolks of the eggs; return to the fire and 
cook until the mixture coats the spoon; beat until cold and 
finish as usual. The parfaits are very rich forms of ices. 

BISCUIT TORTONI 

To Simshine parfait add one-half a cup, each, of powdered 
and sifted lady fingers and macaroons. Then turn into paper 
cases and set in a freezing box (a mould or tin pail with 
close-fitting cover to exclude salt water may be used) with 
a layer of oiled or confectioner's paper between the layers 
of cases, and let stand packed in equal measures of ice and 
salt three or four hours. Before spreading the paper over 
the cases, sprinkle them with blanched almonds, chopped 
fine and browned in the oven, or with powdered macaroons. 



MOUSSE 



I pint of double cream. 

3-4 a cup of powdered sugar. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 



I cup of sherry wine, or 

I cup of grape or other fruit 

juice, or 
1-2 a cup of clear black coffee. 



Add the salt, sugar and flavoring to the cream and beat 
until solid to the bottom of the bowl; turn into a chilled 
mould and let stand packed in equal parts of ice and salt 
about three hours. When the flavoring, as fruit pulp and 
juice, coffee, etc., would dilute the cream too much, as when 
the whip from the single cream is used, a teaspoonful of 
gelatine, softened in two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water 
and melted over hot water, may be added to the liquid. 
When the mixture begins to thicken, fold the cream into it. 
If too large a proportion of gelatine be used, the mixture 
will not freeze readily, if at all. Such mixtures are in reality 
Bavarian creams. 



622 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CARAMEL MOUSSE 

I pint of double cream. 1-2 a cup of granulated sugar, 

1-2 a cup of powdered sugar, caramelized. 

1-2 a cup of scalded milk. 

Cook the sugar to a caramel and turn onto an oiled slab 
or plate; when cold pound smooth, then let stand in the 
hot milk until dissolved. Cool the milk, add to the cream 
with the powdered sugar and beat until solid to the bottom 
of the bowl. Then finish as above. The addition of half a cup 
of sliced almonds, browned in the oven, to the caramel, just 
before turning it onto the slab gives Burnt Almond Mousse. 

PEACH, STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY MOUSSE 

I pint of double cream. The juice of half a lemon. 

I cup of fruit pulp and juice. 3-4 a cup of powdered sugar. 

One teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in two or three table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, if desired. Proceed as above. 

PEACH, STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY MOUSSE* NO. 1 

The white of one egg. i cup of double cream. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. i cup of fruit juice and pulp. 

Beat the white of egg until stiff and gradually beat in the 
sugar. Beat the cream and fruit juice until solid to the bot- 
tom of the bowl. Combine the two. Fill into a mould lined 
with lemon sherbet, cover with sherbet and let stand three 
or four hours packed in equal measures of salt and ice. 

CHESTNUT MOUSSE 

I cup of chestnut pur^. 1-2 a cup of candied cherries, 

2-3 a cup of sugar. i pint of double cream. 

1 tablespoonful, scant, of vanilla extract. 

Dissolve the sugar in the pur6e while it is hot ; when cold 
add the vanilla and the cherries cut in halves. (Cook the 
cherries in syrup to cover and let cool in the syrup; drain 
before using.) Fold the cream, whipped stiff to the bottom 
of the bowl, into the chestnut mixture and turn into a mould; 
protect from salt as usual and let stand three or four houi^ 
packed in equal parts of ice and salt. Serve with whole chest- 






RICE PUDDING GLACE 623 

nuts, cooked in lemon or vanilla syrup, or with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored, and candied cherries. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE WITH ORANGE JELLY 

Decorate the bottom of a chilled mould with candied 
cherries. Cover with liquid orange jelly and set aside to 
become firm. Mix one pint of double cream, three-fourths 
a cup of sugar and a cup of pineapple juice scalded and 
cooled. Whip very light. Turn into the mould, filling to 
overflow. Press the cover down over paper and let stand 
buried in equal parts of ice and salt three or four hours. A 
teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in cold water, may be added 
to the hot pineapple juice if desired. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE FRAPPE 

The yolks of three eggs. The whites of two eggs 

1-2 a cup of sugar. i cup of double cream. 
1-2 a cup of strawberry juice and Strawberry jelly. 

piilp. I cup of strawberry juice and 
1-2 a cup of orange juice. pulp. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. The juice of half a lemon. 

1 tablespoonful of gelatine. 1-4 a cup of sugar, scant. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. 1-2 a tablespoonful of gelatine. 

Cook the yolks of the eggs, beaten with half a cup of sugar, 
in the fruit juice, scalded with the second half-cup of sugar; 
add the gelatine, softened in cold water, strain and cool in 
ice water; when the mixture begins to thicken, fold in the 
whites of the eggs, beaten dry, and the cup of cream, whipped 
solid. Turn the mixture into a souffle dish surrounded with a 
paper band that comes up about an inch above the edge of 
the dish. Turn the souffl^ into the dish, smooth the top and 
pour over it a strawberry jelly made of the ingredients given. 
(See Fruit Jellies, page 570.) Surround the dish with ice and 
salt and let stand four or more hours, to become chilled and 
partly frozen. The jelly may serve as sauce, or the cold orange 
sauce given on page 554 may be passed with a souffle. 

RICE PUDDING GLACE 

1-4 a cup of rice. i tablespoonful of vanilla extract or 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-4 a cup of sherry wine. 

2 cups of milk. i 1-2 cups of double cream. 

3-4 a cup of powdered sugar. 



624 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Put the rice over the fire in plenty of cold water, let boil 
five minutes, then drain and return to the fire in a double 
boiler with one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and two cups of 
milk; cook until the grains are tender, add the sugar and 
let become cold; flavor with one tablespoonful of vanilla 
and fold in the cream beaten solid. Put the mixture into 
a quart mould, filling the comers and packing solidly; press 
the cover down over a piece of wrapping paper and let stand 
packed in equal measures of ice and salt about two hours. 
The mixture should not be frozen very hard. Serve sur- 
rounded with orange or lemon jelly, cut in cubes, or with 
sliced oranges or pineapple, dressed with cold syrup, or with 
raspberry or strawberry preserves. 

SABAYON PUDDING 

Beat the yolks of six eggs. Add, gradually, a scant three- 
fourths a cup of sugar; set the dish over hot water and beat 
while adding gradually one cup of sherry. Raise the dish 
occasionally from the water, lest the mixture cook too fast. 
Continue cooking and beating until the mixture thickens, 
then add the juice of a small lemon and beat over ice water 
until thick and cold; then fold in an equal bulk of whipped 
cream. Have ready stale lady fingers, cut in inch pieces 
and sprinkled lightly with maraschino. Fill paper or china 
cases that fit into tiny silver casseroles, or cocottes, with 
alternate layers of the cabayon mixture and the lady fingers, 
adding now and then part of a maraschino cherr>^ Set into 
a pail, or mould, from which salt water may be excluded, 
and bury in ice and salt until well frozen (about two hours). 
Serve with a spoonful of whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored, and two or three cherries on the top of the ice, 

PUNCH 

Ices called by the name of punch are served just before 
the game. The foundation of these ices is a fruit sherbet; 
to this an Italian meringue and some kind of liquor is added. 
Roman punch is a lemon sherbet, to a quart of which a cup 
of Jamaica rum and a meringue made of the white of one egg 
and half a cup of hot syrup, at the soft-ball stage, has been 



J 



STRAWBERRY SOL'FFLE PHAPPE. (See page 6 



STRAWBERRY CANNELON GLACii. 



COCOA FRAPPE WITH WHIPPED CREAM 



SERVING OF ICES ' 625 

added. A quart of punch is the quantity called for at a 
dinner of twelve covers. Champagne is usually added to an 
orange ice. The sherbet should be frozen quite hard before the 
liquor is added. This may be beaten in with paddle or with a 
long-handled wooden spoon or spatula, or the liquor may be 
poured over each service as it is taken to the dining-room. 
As alcohol does not freeze, this variety of ice is soft and is 
eaten with a spoon from the glass in which it is served. 

TEA PUNCH (FOR RECEPTIONS, TEAS, ETC.) 

I quart of ice cream flavored with 1-2 a cup of water. 

lemon. i quart of strong tea infusion. 

The whites of three eggs. Brandy or Kirsch to taste. 

I cup of sugar. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread stage and pour 
onto the whites of the eggs, beaten until very foamy, but 
not dry; beat until cold, then add gradually the tea, fresh 
made and chilled ; lastly mix the whole into the ice cream ; 
turn the dasher a few times and serve half frozen in punch 
glasses. This may be served from a punch bowl. 

TOMATO PUNCH (SOPHIE COHEN) 

Heat slowly to the boiling point half a can of tomatoes, 
one pint of water, three sliced apples, juice of one lemon, 
one cup of granulated sugar, and one-fourth a teaspoonful 
of ground ginger. Let boil five minutes, then pass through 
a fine sieve; add two ounces of candied ginger, chopped fine, 
and four tablespoonfuls of maraschino. Freeze and serve 
in punch glasses after the roast. 

SERVING ICES 

Besides the ways of serving ices mentioned in the intro- 
duction, and the lining of a mould with lady fingers, noticed 
in Strawberry Charlotte Glac^, nougat cases and croquen- 
bouche of fruit, macaroons or cake are considered worthy 
of attention according to Gou^6 and other French chefs. 
A croquenbouche of fruit is formed by fastening together 
with liquid caramel, either upon the inside or the outside 
of an oiled mould, glazed fruit. When ready to use, remove 



626 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

from the mould and set in place over a form of cream, fash- 
ioned in a mould of the same shape, but smaller in size, to 
insure a space between the cream and its cover. When cake 
is used, choose sponge, bride's or pound cake, cut in rounds, 
and ice in two colors. Or use cake iced in two colors, in the 
same manner as is the bread in the illustration of the apple 
Charlotte (facing page 570). In this case, instead of dipping 
the edges of the cake in caramel, arrange the pieces on the in- 
side of the mould and fasten together with a piping of orna- 
mental icing, so that when dry the croquenbouche may be 
removed in 'one piece. Nougat cases are not usually at- 
tempted at home. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

Boiling Sugar. Candy Making 

" I can teach sugar to slip down your throat a million of ways." 

— Dekker and Ford. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF SUGAR AS PURCHASED (aTWATER) 

Carbo- 

Water Protdn hydrates Fuel val. 

Per Per Per per-lb. 

cent. cent. cent. Calories. 

Granulated sugar ... ... loo.o i,86o 

Maple sugar ... ... 82.8 1,540 

Honey 18.2 .4 81.2 1,520 

Ices are more accurately prepared when a syrup of a cer- 
tain density is used instead of sugar and water. Syrup is 
also preferable to sugar for sweetening fruit punch, lemonade, 
etc., and many prefer it for sweetening tea and coffee. Sugar 
is also boiled for nougat, many kinds of candy, for fondant 
used in candy making and icing cakes, and for spun sugar, 
of which there are several varieties. The boiling and spinning 
of sugar and the making of candies are classed among the 
* 'frills of cookery." But though everyone can not hope to 
master all the intricacies of this branch of the culinary art, 
there is no reason why young people should not become, 
"with advantage to themselves, expert in making simple 
-wreaths of spun sugar or candies from boiled sugar and fon- 
dant. In fact, what better training in habits of accuracy of 
observation and judgment can be had than that which is 
necessary in boiling sugar to the various degrees required in 
candy making. The sugar passes so quickly from one stage 
to another that nothing but the strictest attention to the 
business in hand will insure success. With a sugar ther- 
xnometer the condition of the sugar can be determined at a 
glance. Professional candy-makers, from dailv experience, 

627 



628 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

may dispense with the thermometer, but tyros in the art will 
find it of great advantage. 

DEGREE IN BOILING SUGAR 

In boiling sugar, some fourteen degrees of density are recog- 
nized by the confectioner; six of these are required in home 
candy making. These are designated as: Blow, soft ball, 
hard ball, soft crack, hard crack and caramel. The blow 
degree is indicated by the thermometer at from 230*^ to 236''. 
To determine this degree without a thermometer, put a small 
skimmer into the boiling syrup, withdraw, hold up and blow 
through it. If small air bubbles appear on the opposite 
side the degree is reached. 

SOFT BALL FROM 238° TO a42« F. 

This degree is indicated by the thermometer at from 238** 
to 242° F. To determine this stage without a thermometer, 
have ready a wire skewer, standing in a dish of cold water, 
remove this from the water, plunge into the syrup and then 
back again into the water; let remain in the water about ten 
seconds, then push off the sugar between the thumb and fore- 
finger and, if it can be worked, below the water, into a soft 
ball that does not stick to the fingers, it is boiled enough. 
Another way of testing is to dip a fork into the sj'rup and let 
the syrup drop from the fork back into the dish; if, after all 
the drops have run off, a long hair-like thread remains, the 
syrup is boiled enough. This appearance is always seen in 
any stage above the soft ball. 

HARD BALL. ABOUT 0480 F. 

Test in the same manner as for soft ball. If the cooked 
sugar forms a hard solid ball between the thumb and fore- 
finger, the degree is reached. 

SOFT CRACK. ABOUT ago® F. 

After the sugar is pushed from the skewer, drop it into 
water, remove and press upon the teeth; if it clings, but does 
not stick to the teeth, the stage is reached. 



PEACH MDLStiE. 



TO PREPARE SYRUP WITHOUT A GAUGE 629 

HARD CRACK. ABOUT 310° F. 

At this stage when pressed between the teeth the candy 
leaves them clean and free. 

CARAMEL DEGREE. 345<> TO 354° F- 

Sugar cooked to this stage is used for spun sugar, for holding 
together macaroons and wafers, and for lining moulds in 
which custard is to be baked. The syrup is of a dark yellow 
color and snaps and breaks like thin glass when cooled. As it 
grows dark in color very quickly, when the right stage is 
reached, the vessel containing it needs be set at once for a 
moment or two into cold water to arrest the cooking. 

SYRUPS FOR ICES 

Syrup gives more satisfactory results than does sugar in 
sweetening compotes and, especially, water ices. Syrup 
does not, however, keep well for a very long time ; boiled to 
a high density the surface soon crusts over, and, at low den- 
sity, mold soon appears on the surface. On this account in 
small families, luiless ices are made almost daily, it is pre- 
ferable to make syrup as occasion demands. If, however, 
the making of ices, compotes, etc., be of frequent occurrence, 
it is well to have on hand a stock of syrup registering from 
28° to 32° by the syrup gauge. To prepare water ices, simply 
add fruit juice to bring the density down to 18° or 20°. To 
test the syrup, turn a little into a test-tube or tall bottle about 
an inch and a half in diameter, put in the syrup gauge and 
note the degree at which the gauge floats ; if the right degree 
be not indicated, return the syrup to the saucepan and con- 
tinue boiling, until when thus tested tlie correct density is 
secured. 

TO PREPARE SYRUP WITHOUT A GAUGE 

Put two cups of sugar and a cup and a half of water over 
the fire, and stir until the sugar is melted and boiling begins ; 
then let boil rapidly about five minutes, when it will register 
28°; every five minutes' additional boiling will thicken it one 
degree, thus, when it has boiled ten minutes longer, the syrup 
has a density of 30° and so on. The ingredients mentioned 



630 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

give two cups of syrup registering 28°. A quart of water and 
one pint of sugar, the quantity often indicated for water 
ices, boiled twenty minutes, gives two and one-half cups of 
syrup registering 28°. 

FONDANT 

Fondant is the basis of all French cream candies. It also 
makes the best frosting for Eclairs and small cakes. The 
varieties of candies made from fondant is also limitless. This 
is produced first of all by the kind of sugar used in the fondant 
itself, as white or maple, then the white may be varied by 
tinting and flavoring to correspond. The flavors in general 
use are vanilla, almond, rose, lemon, orange, peppermint and 
wine. The centres may be of fondant, or of nuts or French 
fruit, either alone or in combination. Marshmallows, gum- 
drops, pieces of fruit jelly, or whole candied cherries, may be 
dipped in fondant, producing candies named from the article 
"dipped." To make fondant successfully, experience is 
needed ; but, as all sugar, provided it be not absolutely burned, 
may be used over again for same or other purpose, time would 
seem to be the one item of which an outlay is required. A 
beginner might start out with a pound of sugar (two cups) 
and half a cup of water. Set over the fire and stir until 
boiling begins, then remove the spoon and in a few moments, 
with the hand or a brush dipped in cold water, wash down 
the sides of the saucepan, to remove any grains of sugar that 
have been thrown up in boiling. Cover again and let cook 
about five minutes. This process will tend to decrease, if 
not to obviate entirely, the accumulation of sugar on the 
sides of the saucepan. Now add one-fourth a teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar; and, if the fondant is to be cooked by means 
of a thermometer, put the thermometer into the syrup, and 
let the syrup cook until the temperature rises to about 238^ F., 
the soft-ball stage. The exact degree on a particular ther- 
mometer to which the sugar needs be boiled can be accurately 
determined after two or three trials and marked accordingly. 
When boiled just right, one thermometer might indicate 
236°, another 238^^, and still another as high as 242^. 



FONDANT MAKING. (See j 



DIPPING THE CENTRES 631 

WORKING THE FONDANT 

When the sugar is done, turn it onto a large platter, or 
a marble or slate slab, lightly dampened with- water or 
rubbed over with the best grade of olive oil. Let stand un- 
disturbed until a dent can be made in the surface, then work 
the candy back and forth, with a wooden spatula, to a white, 
smooth, soft, creamy pd.ste. While the paste is still soft and 
warm, gather together and knead with the hands as bread is 
kneaded, then press into an earthen bowl or a glass fruit jar, 
and cover closely with confectioner's paper, then again with a 
double fold of heavier paper. Store in a cool place. After 
twenty-four hours the fondant is ready for use. 

WHAT TO AVOID 

If the syrup be jarred while boiling, or if due care be not 
exercised in washing down the particles of sugar from the 
sides of the saucepan, or the mixture be not cooled enough 
before working with the spatula is begun, or if it be cooked too 
long, the fondant will not be smooth and creamy, but granular. 
To remedy this, water may be added and the whole process 
repeated. 

USING FONDANT. THE CENTRES 

The fondant may be made into ** centres, " though its prin- 
cipal use is for ''dipping" centres of some other material, as 
fruit, nuts, marshmallows, etc. When it is to be made into 
centres, put a portion of the fondant on a large platter or 
marble slab and work into it such flavoring as is desired 
(chopped fruit and nuts may also be added), then shape into 
cones, balls, etc. Or, wrap a little fondant about the meat 
of a hazelnut, a blanched almond, a pistachio nut, or a 
candied cherry, and set aside on confectioner's paper several 
hours to harden. 

DIPPING THE CENTRES 

Melt a portion of the fondant over hot water (double- 
boiler), adding a few drops of hot water, or syrup at 30°, and 
such flavoring as is desired. Stir constantly while the fondant 
is melting, also while the centres are being dipped, to avoid 



632 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the formation of a crust. The fondant may be tinted at this 
time very delicately with color paste. Drop in the centres, 
one at a time, and, when well covered, remove with fork or 
candy tongs to a sheet of confectioner's paper, bringing the 
fork or dipper up over the top of each piece, to show that the 
bonbons were "hand dipped. " Decorate at once such pieces 
as are to be ornamented with pieces of fruit or nuts. To 
decorate cones with chopped nuts, wait until the fondant is 
set, then dip the base delicately into the hot fondant and then 
into the chopped nuts. Chopped nuts may be used to give 
an acorn shape by dipping the round end of coned-shaped 
centres first in fondant and then in chopped nuts. These 
are very pretty, when the fondant is chocolate color and the 
nuts are chopped almonds browned in the oven. Green 
tinted cones dipped in chopped pistachio nuts are also pretty, 

CANDIES PROM FONDANT 
PEPPERMINTS 

Melt the fondant over hot water, as described in "dipping 

the centres," and flavor to taste with a few drops of oil of 

peppermint or a larger quantity of the essence ; leave white or 

tint a delicate green with color paste, then drop from the tip 

of a spoon, or with a peppermint dropper, upon oiled paper. 

For rose mints flavor with rose extract and tint with rose color 

paste. 

CHOCOLATE MINTS 

When the "mints" are cold, drop them, one by one, into 
fondant, to which melted chocolate and vanilla have been 
added, then remove with a candy fork on to oiled paper again. 
Fondant makes the most creamy mints, but if this is not at 
hand, mints may be quickly made by the following recipe : 

FIVE MINUTE PEPPERMINTS 

I cup of white sugar. Leaf-green color paste, or 

1-4 a cup of boiling water. Damask rose color paste. 

6 drops of oil of pepp)ermint. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, and let boil vigorously 
Ave minutes without stirring. Remove from the fire and beat 



MAPLE FONDANT NUT BARS 633 

until a thick cream, adding, meanwhile, six drops of oil of 
pepperment and enough color paste to give a delicate green or 
pink tint. Drop in rounds from the tip of a spoon on to paraf- 
fine or confectioner's paper to cool. 

CHOCOLATE CHESTNUTS 

Drain whole chestnuts, cooked as a compote or preserve, 
from the syrup; let dry in the warming oven, then dip into 
melted fondant, to which melted chocolate and vanilla have 
been added ; let stand on oiled paper. 

TUTTI FRUTTI FONDANT 

Soften two pounds of fondant over hot water; beat into it 
the white of an egg, beaten until very frothy but not stiff, 
two ounces, each, of chopped or fine-cut citron, almonds, 
candied cherries, and pineapple, and a teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and turn into an agate pan lined throughout with oiled or paraf- 
fine paper; cover with paper and place a second tin upon the 
fondant to press it with a light weight. Too much weight 
will make it heavy. Let stand twenty-four hours, then slice 
through the paper. Melted chocolate may be added with 
the fruit, and alternate layers of fruit and plain fondant, or 
plain and fruit chocolate fondant may be moulded at pleasure. 

MAPLE FONDANT 

I cup of maple sugar (i-a a pound) 1-4 a teaspoonful of cream-of- 
j cup of granulated sugar. tartar. 

1-2 a cup of hot water. 

Prepare as ordinary fondant. 

MAPLB-AND-WALNUT SURPRISE 

Shape white fondant, flavored with curacoa and mixed with 
chopped cherries, into flat rounds, one-fourth an inch thick 
and the size of an English walnut; let stand to harden an hour 
or more (over night is preferable), then dip into melted maple 
fondant and press half an English walnut on to the top of each. 

MAPLE FONDANT NUT BARS 

Stir a cup of chopped nuts into a pound of melted maple 
-fondant and turn into a buttered brick mould to a depth of 
tliree-fourths an inch. When cold cut into bars. 



634 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CARAMELS 

Glucose is used in some of the best of caramels; but with 
or without glucose the boiling should be continued to about 
290° Fahr., the "soft crack" stage. During the last of the 
cooking the candy must be stirred constantly, to avoid burn- 
ing. When cooked it should be poured into rectangular pans 
of such size as will insure a thickness of three-fourths an inch. 
When firm, but not quite cold, cut into small squares. The 
pans need be well-buttered. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

Stir together over the fire one cup of molasses, half a cup of 
granulated sugar, and one-fourth a cup of water, until the 
sugar is dissolved. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
two squares, or ounces, of chocolate. Stir until the chocolate 
melts, then cook without stirring, until a little tried in cold 
water may be formed into a firm ball. Flavor with a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. The fire must be quite low for the last 
of the cooking, or the mixture will bum. (See Caramels.) 

VANILLA CARAMELS 

Put over the fire two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup 
of cream,' one-fourth a cup, each, of molasses and butter; stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, then let cook without stirring 
from fifteen to eighteen minutes, or until a firm ball may be 
formed in cold water. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and beat until creamy. Substitute one-fourth a pound of 
melted chocolate for the molasses, if desired. 

VANILLA CARAMELS WITH GLUCOSE 

Stir half a can of condensed milk into a cup of sweet cream 
or milk. When evenly blended, add three-fourths a pound of 
granulated sugar (one cup and a half) and six ounces of glu- 
cose. Cook over a slow fire, stirring constantly, until a little 
tried in ice water forms a hard ball that softens a little be- 
tween the fingers. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

VANILLA CARAMELS WITH NUTS 

Add the meats from about a dozen English walnuts broken 
into halves. 



MAPLE CREAMS 635 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS WITH GLYCERINE 

I cup of molasses. i tablespoonful of glycerine. 

1 cup of sugar. 3 ounces of chocolate, grated. 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i teaspoonfui of vanilla. 

Cook according to directions for caramels, adding the 
chocolate near the last of the cooking. 

FUDGE (HAROLD HILL) 

Heat two cups of sugar and two-thirds a cup of milk to the 
boiling point; add two "squares of chocolate and stir constantly 
until the chocolate is melted. Boil eight minutes; add three 
(level) tablespoonfuls of butter and boil seven minutes; re- 
move from the fire, add one teaspoonfui of vanilla and beat 
until the mixture is creamy and sugars around the edge of the 
saucepan. Pour into buttered pans, cool slightly, then mark 
in squares. 

VANILLA SUGAR CANDY 

3 pounds (4 cups) of granulated 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

sugar. I tablespoonful of glycerine. 

2-3 a cup of water. 2 tablespoonfuls of vanilla. 

1-3 a cup of vinegar. 

Boil all, save the vanilla, without stirring (from twenty 
minutes to half an hour), to the hard ball degree; pour on a 
platter, add the vanilla, and when cool pull over a hook, and 
cut into short pieces. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

2 cups of molasses. i tablespoonful of glycerine. 
I cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonfui of soda. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Boil to the hard ball degree; stir in the soda, and when 
cooled pull until white as desired; draw out into sticks and 
cut into inch lengths. 

MAPLE CREAMS (SADIE LOCKE, MAINE) 

3 cups of maple syrup or i cup of thick, sweet cream. 

I pound of maple sugar, grated. 

Boil the sugar and cream to the soft ball degree ; beat with 
a silver fork until it is of the consistency of very thick cream. 



636 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Pour in buttered tins or tins lined with paraflfine paper and 
when cool cut into squares. A cup of nuts may be added, 
when the mixture begins to thicken. Half a cup of butter 
may take the place of the cream. 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

3 cups of brown sugar.. i pint of peanuts. 

I cup of New Orleans molasses. 1-4 a pound of butter. 

I - 2 a teaspoonf ul of cream of 2 tcaspoonfuls of soda, 

tartar. i cup of. water. 

Boil all the ingredients, except the last three, to the hard 
ball stage. Add the peanuts and boil to the hard crack stage; 
add the butter and when this is incorporated remove from 
the fire and add the soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
water, and stir vigorously. When the mixture begins to 
rise, pour upon a marble or platter and spread thin. When 
cold break or cut in pieces. 

COCOANUT CREAM CANDY 

Boil two cups of sugar and half a cup of milk, or, better 
still, condensed milk diluted with water, four minutes after 
boiling begins, washing down the sides of the saucepan as 
needed. Add one-fourth a teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
and let boil to "blow" stage, between 230° to 236^ F. When 
boiled enough remove from the fire, add two tablespoonfuls 
of grated chocolate, half a pound of grated cocoanut — fresh 
cocoanut is preferable — and a tablespoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract, and stir until thickened slightly. Then drop from 
the end of the spoon on to confectioner's paper. Set a nut 
or a piece of candied fruit on the top of each candy 

FIG-AND-NUT CONFECTIONS 

Cut choice pressed figs in halves through the blossom 
ends; sprinkle the inside of each half with thin slices of Eng- 
lish walnuts or pecan nuts; roll up tightly; then roll again 
in powdered or fine granulated sugar. 



SPUN SUGAR 637 

STUFFED RAISINS 

Cut open choice raisins on one side and remove the seeds; 
fill with bits of blanched almonds, English walnuts, or candied 
cherries; close each raisin thus filled and wrap in another 
seeded raisin. Roll in fine granulated sugar. 

NUT-AND-FRUIT CONFECTIONS 

Chop very fine one pound, each, of figs and English wal- 
nut meats, and half a pound, each, of dates and candied 
cherries. Work with the hands until well mixed. Roll out 
into a thin sheet on a board, well-dredged with confectioner's 
sugar. Shape with a small cutter, then roll in sugar. 

STUFFED PRUNES 

Soak large and perfect prunes in cold water several hours ; 
steam until the skins are tender and the stones easily re- 
moved. Take out the stones and fill the open spaces with 
dates, figs or candied fruit, chopped fine with an equal bulk 
of pecan nuts or English walnuts. Press the prunes into 
symmetrical shape, then roll in fine granulated sugaf. Let 
stand several days before serving. 

SPUN SUGAR 

Boil one pound of sugar, half a cup of boiling water and 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of cream-of -tartar to 310° F., or 
the crack stage. Follow the directions given for boiling 
sugar, to make fondant. When cooked set the saucepan 
into a dish of cold water, to arrest further cooking, then 
when cooled a little set into a dish of hot water. Have ready 
wooden supports fastened to the kitchen table — soft wooden 
spatulas answer well; let these project about two feet from 
the table and be about two feet apart. Spread a clean paper 
beneath them. Dip a sugar spinner into the cooked sugar 
and pass it round and round the spatulas; the sugar will 
spin from each point of the spinner in a fine, thread-like 
cobweb round the spatulas. The threads become firm and 
stiff almost instantly. Repeat the dipping and swinging 
of the spinner until a sufficient mass has been formed; then 



638 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

remove and coil into the shape desired; wreaths and nests 
are most common forms. If the sugar be too hot or too cold 
the spinning will be unsatisfactory. When too cold reheat, 
adding a little water and boiling again toward the last of 
the process. In qrisp, clear, cold weather spun sugar will 
remain crisp a day or two, but it is better made the day 
on which it is to be used. 

CARAMELED NUTS 

Boil a cup of sugar and one-fourth a cup of water to the 
hard-crack, or caramel degree. Do not stir after the sugar is 
dissolved. -Wash down the grains of sugar thrown up in cook- 
ing as in making fondant. When the proper degree is reached, 
add a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready pecan nuts, 
English walnuts or blanched almonds, heated without brown- 
ing. Drop the nuts, one at a time, into the cooked sugar; 
without stirring the sugar, coat the nut and lift out on to an 
oiled or confectioner's paper. It is necessary to work ver>^ 
quickly. Reheat the sugar when needed. When it becomes 
too thick, add a few drops of water and cook again to the 
correct degree. 

CRYSTALLIZED NUTS 

Boil the sugar to the crack stage, dip as above, then roll 
while hot in coarse granulated sugar. The hard crack degree. 
310 F., is the last stage before the syrup takes color. 

MARRONS GLACES 

Prepare the chestnuts as for compote. Dry the nuts, 
then take them, one by one, on a skewer, and dip into sugar 
and water that has been cooked to 310 degrees. Lay the nuts 
on an oiled paper to cool. Remove the syrup from the fire 
as soon as the thermometer registers the proper number 
of degrees. If it becomes too cold, let stand in hot water. 

CANDIED ORANGE OR LEMON PEEL 

Let the peel, removed in halves or quarters, stand over 
night in salted Water. Wash thoroughly. Let boil, changing 



CANDIED VIOLETS 639 

the water several times, until the peel is tender. If the peel 
does not taste salty, the water need not be changed. When 
the peel is tender, remove such parts of the bitter white 
portion as is desired. Leave the sections whole, or cut into 
narrow strips or shreds. Make a syrup of a pint of water 
and a pound of sugar; skim, and put into it a pound of the 
cooked peel; let simmer until the syrup is nearly absorbed, 
then boil rapidly and stir until well coated with sugar. Let 
dry in a warming oven, then store in a closed receptacle. 
The strips may be woven into baskets or nests while hot 
and pliable. The nests are particularly pretty, filled with 
three candy eggs, as Easter souvenirs. Crystallized mint 
leaves are a pretty decoration for the nests. 

CANDIED VIOLETS 

Remove the stalks from a pound of violets and rinse them 
in cold water, then spread them on a towel to dry. Cook 
a pound and a quarter of sugar to the soft-ball stage, re- 
move from the fire and add the violets; press them down 
under the syrup, return to the fire and let boil up once, 
then transfer, at once, to a cold dish. T^-^ next day drain 
on a sieve. To the syrup add half a cup ox sugar and cook 
again to soft-ball stage; put in the flowers and set aside for 
twelve hours; drain again, heat to the boiling point and 
add the violets. Remove from the fire and stir the violets 
lightly, until the syrup begins to grain, then pour on to sheets 
of paper; shake and separate the flowers carefully with the 
hands, and, when dry, pick them from the granulated sugar. 
Rose petals and mint leaves may be candied in the same 
manner. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

Food for the Sick and Convalescent 

A carefully regulated diet has, in numberless cases, proved one of 
the best, if not the very best, correctives of disease. — Dr. Shbpard. 



(t 



AH that a man hath will he give for his life.*' 



Difficult as it is to select a dietary for the well, it is even 
more difficult to decide upon the proper articles of food for the 
sick or the convalescent; for the thought of the housekeeper 
in general is concentrated on feeding the well and not the 
sick. Diet for the sick should be modified by tlie nature of 
the disease ; hence it needs be under the personal supervision 
of a practitioner who believes in the curative power of diet- 
etics. The physician should know how to cook and prepare 
the food that he orders for his patient; for a properly trained 
nurse is not always at hand to cook, or superintend the cooking 
of, a patient's meals, and many a housekeeper or *' good, plain 
cook" is ignorant of the first principles involved in makmg 
properly a cup of gruel or broth, or in toasting a slice of bread. 

It is not our purpose to repeat here directions or recipes 
that have been given, in other parts of this volume, for ''what 
will make a sick man well, will also keep him well,** but to 
refer simply to some dishes that may be safely used to supply 
nutrition under certain circumstances or conditions of health. 
A patient recovering from illness is often in so weak and pre- 
carious a condition that the slightest indiscretion in diet may 
put off the day of recovery weeks, even, if it do not prove fatal. 

When a new dish is allowed by the attending physician, 
only a small service or portion should be given at first, and the 
effects should be carefully noted ; for nowhere are thought and 
judgment more needed than in selecting food for the sick, or 

640 



THE SERVICE 64X 

for young children, and in the feeding of both the same rules 
are to be observed. 

REGULARITY IN FEEDING 

It has come to be well known that medicines are to be 
given at stated intervals ; it is just as essential to present food 
at stated periods. Regularity in feeding is conducive to 
welfare of both sick and well. "The stomach is a good ser- 
vant: let his hours of repose be unbroken. " 

THE SERVICE 

Those who are fastidious in respect to food while well are 
doubly so when ill, and the china and other accessories should 
be of the choicest at hand. Scrupulous cleanliness should be 
observed in the minutest particulars. Food should never be 
tasted in the presence of an invalid, and he should feel beyond 
suspicion that the fork or spoon presented him has not been 
negligently handled. The patient who insisted that she be 
allowed with her own hand to throw into a common receptacle 
all broths, gruels, etc., left in the cups simply wished to assure 
herself against the return of those items after they had been 
left standing uncovered. 

The fundamental principles involved in feeding the sick 
have been tersely expressed by one skilled in the medicinal art 
as follows: 

I St. The avoidance of all articles that disagree with tjie 
existing condition of the patient. 

2nd. The giving of the food best adapted to relieve the 
digestive organs of unnecessary labor and at the same time 
maintain nutrition. 

3rd. For certain special diseases there are classes of food 
that possess distinctly curative value, as fresh fruits and vege- 
tables for scurvy, fats and oils in tuberculosis, and pineapple 
juice in catarrhal affections of throat and alimentary canal. 

An example of the first principle, viz.: avoidance of all 
articles that disagree with existing conditions, is seen in the 
dietary prescribed for diabetic patients. We know that the 
carbohydrate principle in food is by the process of digestion 
changed into sugar, that a part of this sugar goes at once into 



642 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the circulation and a part is stored in the liver for future use as 
glycogen. In cases of diabetes all the carbohydrates taken as 
food are eliminated by the kidneys as grape sugar or glucose, 
oftentimes in the space of twenty-four hourj. This elimina- 
tion is accompanied by distressing symptons. Under these con- 
ditions the carbohydrates are gradually eliminated from the 
dietary, and to make up for this deficiency the quantity of pro- 
teid, principally the quantity of fat, needs be increased. 
In severe cases, sugar is made out of proteid, but it is not 
formed in such quantity as occurs when starch is contained 
in the dietary. Bread, being largely starch, is prohibited, 
as are also vegetables grown underground. As fat, measured 
by the amount of heat liberated during its oxidation, has a 
high nutritive value, a smaller quantity, comparatively, is 
needed to make up the deficiency than would be the case if 
the deficiency were made up from proteid. But the problem 
is to present the fat in a pleasing form. A physician and 
specialist on diabetes, in lecturing on the food of diabetics, 
alluded to the following ways in which butter could be pre- 
sented and which in practice had been found acceptable; 
Four ounces of butter is often thought to be needed each day, 
to insure the proper amount of nutriment. Thin slices of 
cheese, spread generously with butter, were used instead of 
bread. A piece of butter was put into a cup and hot coffee 
poured over it; the coffee was sipped while quite hot. Butter 
was used profusely on all cooked vegetables that were allowed, 
as spinach, string beans, heet-tops, celery and okra. Bacon 
is a desirable addition to all sorts of dishes. 

The number of vegetables without starch in composition 
being rather limited, it is advisable to present the vegetables 
in large quantity, one at a meal, to avoid the patients tiring 
of them. Proteid food being highly concentrated, vegetables 
need be used freely to secure waste and successful elimination. 
Saccharine is put into cranberries at the close of the cooking, 
to make them less sour. When cream is allowed, ice cream 
may be prepared with saccharine in the place of sugar. 

Eggs are one of the main dependencies of the diabetic; as 
many as six are required in a day. These may be taken in egg- 



SECOND PRINCIPLE 643 

nog (sweetened with saccharine), in coffee, or cooked by any 
recipe in which starch or sugar is not used. The whites of 
two eggs, beaten and mixed with a glass of cold water and, if 
allowed, flavored with lemon juice, are good for diabetics 
and, also, in most conditions, where nourishment in an easily 
digested form is demanded. 

'* More is to be done for asthmatic patients on the side of 
the stomach than in any other direction, " for errors in diet 
are liable to precipitate an attack. A cup of very hot water 
is of advantage, if taken an hour before each meal and again 
at night. No water should be taken with the meals, or until 
at least three hours after. As the attacks of the disease are 
usually worse at night, the principal meal should be eaten at 
midday, and the supper be made light. Fats and sweets 
should be omitted, as also pork, veal, cheese, and rich desserts. 
If starchy food be eaten, it needs be thoroughly cooked and 
masticated, to insure complete salivary digestion. Thompson 
gives the following as a sample for advanced cases : Breakfast : 
bread and milk, or well-cooked oatmeal porridge or wheaten 
grits, without sugar. Dinner (not later than 2 p. m.): beef or 
mutton, bread, one or two green or succulent vegetables, 
such as spinach, stewed celery, stewed or raw tomatoes. 
Blanc mange or custard (not sweetened) or a little rice pud- 
ding. Fresh fruit in season, as a peach or baked apple. Sup- 
per (6 p. M.): a soft-cooked egg or a little cold fowl or game, 
stale bread, toast, zweiback, milk, stewed fruit (without 
sugar). Moderation and punctuality in eating are first essen- 
tials. 

IN CHRONIC RHEUMATISM 

**The basis of the diet should be farinaceous food with a 
few fresh green vegetables. Fish, eggs, and fowl may be 
eaten; but dark meat is not desirable. Sweets and alcoholic 
beverages should be omitted from the menu, and all foods 
should be plainly cooked and eaten in moderation. " 

SECOND PRINCIPLE 

The giving of food best adapted to relieve the digestive 
organs of unnecessary labor while maintaining nutrition. 



644 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

The old adage was "feed a cold and starve a fever." In 
place of the 3,500 calorics in the average, normal dietary, a 
fever patient was reduced to a dietary supplying but 400 
calories. It was not until 1 882 that it was conclusively proven 
that fever .patients could digest food just as well as other 
patients. Fever oxidizes proteid matter. A patient fed on 
milk or beef juice rich in the proteid principle saves the tissues 
of his body by so much, though enough food can not be in- 
gested to replace all the proteid matter oxidized by the fe\'^r. 
hence the emaciation even in patients who are fed the most 
successfully. 

TYPHOID FEVER 

The seat of typhoid fever is in the small intestine, and all 
food that is given needs be such as is principally digested in 
the stomach and leaves but little waste, thus relieving the 
intestine. If stomach digestion in any fever can be carried 
on fairly well, the loss of bodily weight is proportionately 
checked. In an ulcerated condition of the intestine, liquid 
is less liable than solid food to cause* disturbance. Milk or 
broths are largely digested in the stomach, and milk espe- 
cially provides nutriment ; these then are the foods indicated 
in fevers. Clear soups, consomme and thin gruels of rice, oat- 
meal or barley, jrom ivhich all solid material has been carefully 
removed by straining through a double fold of cheesecloth, 
may also be used. If these latter be used alone, tissue waste 
will be noticeable in a few days at the most, as the}'' do not 
contain sufficient protein to make up for the oxidation of 
proteid from the system; but with these combined with 
gelatine, white of egg and broths the patient will do well. 
To illustrate, note that a cup of bouillon supplies but sixteen 
calories of heat, while an egg furnishes seventy-five calories. 

THIRD PRINCIPLE 

FOODS POSSESSING CURATIVE VALUE FOR SPECIAL 

DISEASES 

Scurvy is less common than formerly. This is owing, in 
a measu're, to increased facilities of preserving and trans- 
porting food, whereby a more varied dietary is secured. U 






CHICKEN SOUP WITH BREAD STICKS. (See 



JUXKET WITH APPLE, CHERRIES, 1 



SOrFFLED ECG, (See Poaclicd Ee?, Hygienic Fasl 



RECEIPES 64s 

should be remembered, however, that canned and dried foods 
have lost some of their life-giving properties. 

When young children are afflicted with scurvy, it is usually 
found that their dietary has been too closely confined to 
proprietary foods, sterilized milk, evaporated cream, etc. 

Olive oil, butter, cream and bacon fat, indicated in tubercu- 
losis, may be given in countless appetizing ways; the main 
thing to determine is in what forms these may be presented 
to be most readily assimilated by the individual patient. 
(Note the ways of giving butter in diabetes.) Butter be- 
comes a liquid at the temperature of the body and may be 
absorbed almost at once on entering the intestine. 

In cases of malaria and all catarrhal affections of the throat 
and alimentary canal, fresh pineapple juice acts as a germicide, 
though the cooked juice loses this power to a large extent, if 
not entirely. 

The first requisite in the diet of both the sick and the well 
is pure water; if disease be present, pure water, taken alone 
and in sufficient quantity, will do much towards washing it 
from the system. Except is special diseases, the proportion 
of carbohydrate and protcid food in general remains the 
same in sickness as in health, though after a wasting disease 
tissue-building rather than force-producing food would be 
indicated. This is the time also for gelatinoids or "proteid 
savers." Of this group gelatine in various forms is the most 
available. 

Diet for the very sick is similar to that of a young infant — 
i. e., milk or liquid food. To be easily digested, give milk in 
teaspoonfuls, thus avoiding large curds If diluted the curd 
will be softer and more easily broken up. Dilute with rice 
or barley water, or with water gruel. 

RECIPES 

BARLEY WATER. (USED ALONE OR IN DILUTING MILK) 

Put three teaspoonfuls of pearl barley over the fire in cold 
water; let heat to the boiling point and boil iive minutes, then 
drain, rinse in cold water and add one quart of water; let 
come to the boiling point, then simmer until reduced to about 



646 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

three cups of liquid. Or cook one teaspoonful of barley flour, 
diluted with cold water to pour, in a pint of boiling water twenty 
minutes. This may be sweetened and flavored when required, 

RICE WATER. (USED ALONE OR IN DILUTING MILK) 

Blanch two tablespoonfuls of rice ; add a quart of water and 
let simmer very gently an hour ; strain and use as directed. 

FLAXSEED TEA 

Blanch two tablespoonfuls of flaxseed; add one quart of 
boiling water and let boil one or two hours; strain and add 
lemon juice and sugar. 

CURRANT AND TAMARIND WATER 

Currant jelly, dissolved in hot water, or tamarinds, steeped 
in hot wMer an hour and the liquid strained, either with or 
without the addition of lemon juice, are often prized as bev- 
erages in the sick room.* Lemon juice may be taken, when 
the oil from the rind would occasion flatulency or other un- 
pleasant manifestations. 

TOAST WATER OR BREAD COFFEE 

Put slices of bread, cut one-fourth an inch thick, in a slack 
oven to dry until crisp and a golden brown. Break in pieces, 
add an equal measure of boiling water and let stand about 
an hour. Strain through a piece of cheesecloth. Serve hot 
or cold, with or without sugar and cream. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE 

Pick over one-fourth a cup of Irish moss and let stand half 
an hour or more in cold water to cover; drain the water from 
the moss, add a pint of fresh water and let cook twenty minutes 
in a double-boiler, then strain. To half a cup of the liquid add 
the juice of a lemon and sugar to taste. This drink may 
also be made of sea moss farine. Sprinkle half a teaspoonful 
of farine into a quart of cold water and stir until the liquid 
thickens, and then, occasionally, for half an hour, 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

Stir a cup of oatmeal into two quarts of boUing salted 
water; cook three hours in a double-boiler, then strain through 



BEEF ESSENCE 647 

a piece of coarse cheesecloth. To half a cup of gruel add 
half a cup of thin cream and about one pint of boiling water; 
sugar may also be added. Prepare other gruels in the same 
way. 

WHEAT FLOUR AND CORN MEAL GRUEL 

Sift together two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful of com meal and half a teaspoonful of salt ; mix to a thin 
batter with about one-fourth a cup of water or milk and stir 
into a quart of boiling water or scalded milk ; let cook in the 
water an hour and in the milk (over hot water) three hours. 
Serve hot, diluting with cream or rich milk. Gruel may also 
be made of arrowroot, farina, rice-flour, barley flour or tapi- 
oca "exotique"; beaten yolk or white of egg may be added 
to any gruel just as it is removed from the fire. 

BROILED BEEF JUICE 

Wipe with a damp cloth and remove all visible fat from a 
piece of steak, cut nearly an inch thick, from the top of the 
round. Broil over a clear bed of coals three or four minutes, 
turning each ten seconds. Cut in pieces, about an inch and 
a half square, and gash two or three times on each side. Press 
out the juice with a meat press or a hot lemon squeezer and 
turn into a hot cup. Season with salt and serve hot. 

BEEF ESSENCE 

Cut beef, prepared as before, into small pieces; set these in 
a wide-mouthed bottle, securely corked, or in a fruit jar, 
closely covered, on a heavy fold of paper, or on a trivet in a 
kettle of water; heat the water gradually to the boiling point 
and let stand several hours, then pour off the essence. 

BEEF ESSENCE 

Chop fine one ounce of fresh beef, freed from fat, and pour 
over it one cup of soft water ; add five or six drops of diluted 
hydrochloric *acid and a few grains of common salt, stir it well, 
and leave for three hours in a cool place. Pass the liquid 
through a piece of cheesecloth, pressing the meat slightly and 
rinsing it with one-fourth a cup of cold water. Serve cold, a 



648 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

teaspoonful at a time ; or heat in a closed vessel over hot water 
and then serve. 

BEEF TEA 

Chop fine half a pound of raw lean beef, cover with one pint 
of cold water and let stand in an earthen dish in a cool place 
for some hours. Cook over the fire, stirring constantly, until 
vapor begins to rise, then remove from the fire. Strain 
through a cheesecloth, pressing the liquid from the meat. 
Season with salt. The liquid should not be heated above 160'^, 
but between that and 140° F. The albuminous juices do not 
coagulate and settle to the bottom of the cup, but are held in 
suspension throughout the liquid, as when cooked at a 
higher temperature. 

BEEF TEA 

Let a pound of fine-chopped beef stand an hour in an earthen 
vessel, covered with a pint of cold water; set into a dish of 
water over the fire, or in the oven, keeping the water in the 
outside dish at simmering temperature, one hour. The meat 
should not be exposed to a temperature of more than 170 F. 

BEEF TEA 

Cut two and a half pounds of beef from the top of the round 
into half-inch pieces; put into a white-lined saucepan, cover 
with pounded ice to the depth of an inch and a half and let 
stand, covered, about two hours. Put the saucepan over the 
fire, let heat nearly to the boiling point, then pass through a 
fine strainer. 

CHICKEN, VEAL OR MUTTON BROTH 

For chicken broth, add the crushed bones with the meat. 
For veal broth, use the fleshy part of the knuckle. Use a 
pint of water to a pound of meat, cook in a fruit jar or double 
boiler about four hours, or let simmer directly over the fire 
two hours and add water, if needed, to secure a pint of liquid 
to a pound of meat. The nutritive value may be increased 
by the addition of pearl barley, rice, vermicelli or tapioca. 
The barley requires long cooking after being soaked over 
night. 



ALMOND MILK SOUP 649 

CHICKEN, MUTTON OR VEAL BROTH 

Chop fine a pound of chicken, mutton or veal free of fat; 
add a pint of water and let stand on ice two or three hours. 
Then cook three hours over a slow fire, strain, cool, remove 
fat, add salt and serve hot or cold. 

SCOTCH BEEF BROTH 

To a pint of strained-and-seasoned beef broth, from which 
all fat has been removed, add two teaspoonfuls of oatmeal 
and cook over hot water two hours. Strain and serve hot. 
The broth should have a delicate, jelly-like consistency. 

MUTTON BROTH 

(UNITED STATES ARMY HOSPITAL RECIPE FOR TWELVE 

MEN) 

Mutton, six pounds; salt, two ounces; rice, two ounces. 

Directions: — Break the bones without separating the meat. 
Put it into twelve pints of cold water, with the salt and rice or 
barley. Simmer gently two hours and a half, carefully remov- 
ing all the scum and fat. At the expiration of the time, if neces- 
sary, add water to secure twelve pints of broth and let simmer 
fifteen minutes longer; add the salt towards the last of the 
cooking. 

CLAM AND CHICKEN FRAPPE. (BOSTON COOKING 

SCHOOL) 

Wash and scrub two quarts of clams. Put in a saucepan 
with half a cup of cold water, cover closely and let steam until 
the shells are well opened. Remove the clams from the shells 
and strain all the liquor through a cheesecloth. To one cup 
and two-thirds of the liquor add two and one-half cups of 
highly seasoned chicken stock and salt if needed. Cool and 
freeze to a mush. Serve in cups with whipped cream above. 

ALMOND MILK SOUP 

Blanch half a pound of sweet and ten bitter almonds ; pound 
them in a mortar, moistening, from time to time, with milk, 
using in all one pint; when pounded to a smooth paste press 
through a piece of fine cheesecloth. Scald three cups of 
milk with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and half a teaspoonful 
of salt; stir in the almond milk and continue to stir until 
heated. Serve with croutons. 



650 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

LEMON, VINEGAR OR WINE WHEY 

, Heat a pint of milk to the boiling point ; add the juice of half 
a lemon freed from seeds ; let the milk again come to the boil- 
ing point; then, without pressure, strain the whey through a 
cheesecloth. Half a cup of wine (sherry or a white wine), 
a tablespoonful of vinegar, or one-fourth an ounce of cream-of- 
tartar, may take the place of the lemon juice. Whey has no 
value as an aliment, but it is useful as a beverage in febrile 
diseases, because it promotes perspiration and possesses 
diuretic properties. 

PEPTONIZED MILK. (COLD PROCESS) 

Into a clean quart bottle or jar put five grains (one-fourth 
a teaspoonful) of extractum pancrcatin, powdered, one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of soda, and half a cup of cold water; shake 
thoroughly, then add a pint of fresh, cool milk; shake again 
and put directly upon the ice. This milk mdiy be used in any 
dish where milk is called for. After using milk from the bottle 
return the bottle at once to the ice, or the peptonizing process 
will be continued. 

PEPTONIZED MILK. NO. 2 

Prepare the milk as before ; then place the bottle in water at 
about 115° Fahr. (the hand can be held in water of this tem- 
perature without discomfort). Keep the bottle in the water 
ten minutes, then put at once on ice. The bottle should come 
in direct contact with the ice. In some preparations of 
pancreatin, as Fairchild*s, the proper proportions of pancreaiin 
and soda for a pint of milk come mixed together in a tube. 

The taste of milk, peptonized (t. e., partially digested) by 
the ' ' cold process, * ' is unchanged. Milk so treated is especially 
suitable for persons who ordinarily find milk indigestible. 
If the stomach is unable to retain properly and assimilate 
milk prepared by this process, the milk should be heated and 
the process of digestion carried on still further, as by the 
second method. After the milk has been properly peptonized 
by the second process, it may be scalded, and thus the process 
of peptonization is checked ; in this case it may be kept simply 
in a cool place, ice being unnecessary. 



SCUFFLED EGG 651 

SAVORY CUSTARD 

Beat the yolks of two or three eggs ; add a few grains of salt, 
a dash of pepper, if permissible, and a cup of beef tea, or broth 
of any kind ; strain into a buttered cup and poach in a dish of 
hot water until the custard is set. Serve hot or cold in the 
cup. 

EGG AND GRUEL OR CAUDLE 

Beat an egg to a froth ; have ready a cup of smooth and very 
hot gruel and stir this into the egg; add from one-fourth to 
one-half a cup of sherry, a teaspoonful of sugar and grated 
nutmeg, one or all as is desired. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD 

Fill a buttered custard cup lightly with stale breadcrumbs 
(centre of loaf) and fine-chopped breast of chicken. Beat a 
whole egg, or the yolks of two ; add a few grains of celery salt 
and half a cup or more of milk. Poach as any custard. 
Serve hot. 

BEEF TEA CUSTARD 

Beat the yolks of three eggs slightly; add a few grains of 
salt and, very gradually, a cup of hot beef tea ; cook in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until the mixture thickens ; then pass 
through a fine sieve. Serve hot or cold in a custard cup. If 
permissible the beef tea may be flavored with celery or pars- 
ley. 

SOUFFLED EGG 

This dish when properly prepared is a delicate, dainty mor- 
sel. An egg so cooked is often more easily digested than 
when poached au naturel, inasmuch as the air incorporated 
into the white separates the cells of albumen and enables the 
digestive fluids to penetrate the mass without hindrance. 
(For recipe, see "Poached Egg, Hygienic Fashion.") An 
egg thus cooked, and served in a tumbler, presents an attrac- 
tive appearance most desirable in the sick room. The lower 
part of a small double boiler, in which a trivet is set, affords 
a practical means of cooking. In the absence of a trivet, one 



652 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

may be improvised by driving a nail repeatedly through the 
cover of a pound size baking-powder box. Thus the water 
may pass beneath the glass. Set the glass in place, while the 
water is lukewarm, and when the white begins to expand with 
the heat and rise, drop in the yolk; both are cooked, at least, as 
soon as the water boils. The less the egg is cooked the more 
easily it will be digested. 

EGG NOGG 

Beat the yolk of an cgg\ add one or two teaspoonfuls of 
sugar and, when mixed with the egg, a tablespoonful of sherr}' 
or brandy; mix again, then add, gradually, a cup of inilk, and, 
lastly, fold in the white of the egg beaten stiff. 

EGG AND WINE 

Beat an egg to a froth; add one or two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and beat again. Heat half a cup of cold water and one- 
fourth a cup of sherry wine, until vapor rises, then pour over 
the egg and sugar, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water 
until slightly thickened. Serve in a glass, hot or cold. 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

Cut stale bread into slices one-fourth an inch thick; put 
two slices together, remove the crusts and cut into such shape 
as desired. Keep the pairs together, spread these with butter, 
then with the pulp of meat, scraped from the fibre and sea- 
soned with salt, and press the pairs together. In scraping the 
beef, scrape the pulp from one side and then turn and scrape 
the pulp from the fibres on the other side. 

BROILED RAW BEEF CAKES 

Season raw beef pulp, prepared as above, with salt and 
shape into small flat cakes of uniform thickness throughout. 
Broil in a well-oiled oyster broiler about four minutes, turning 
every ten seconds. Season with salt and spread with butter. 

TENDERLOIN STEAK WITH BEEF JUICE 

Have a piece of steak cut an inch and a half thick from the 
middle of the tenderloin lying under the rump. This is tender 
meat, but lacking in juiciness and flavor. Put into a well- 



EGG JUNKET, WHIPPED CREAM 653 

oiled broiler with nearly half a pound of round steak. Broil 
in the usual manner about ten minutes; place the tenderloin 
on a hot plate, dust lightly with salt and, with a hot lemon 
squeezer or meat press, express the juice from the round steak 
over it. Garnish with cress or parsley and serve at'once. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN IN ASPIC JELLY 

Remove the fillets from the breast of a young and tender 
chicken (see page 170). After the tendon is removed from 
the small fillets and all are of the same thickness, wrap the 
fillets securely in pieces of well-buttered writing paper, and 
broil over a moderate fire, turning very often, to avoid burning 
the paper. Cool under a weight and mould in aspic jelly (see 
page 273). 

BROILED SQUABS 

See that the squabs are carefully dressed and singed (split 
them down the backbone and dress as a chicken for broiling), 
wipe carefully and broil in a well-oiled double broiler; season 
lightly with salt, also pepper and butter if agreeable. Serve 
on a slice of toast. Garnish with a slice or two of orange 
and a stem of watercress. 

SEA MOSS FARINE BLANC-MANGE 

I tablespoonful of sea moss farine. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I quart of milk. The juice of a lemon. 

Stir the farine into the milk and sugar; let heat gradually 
(over hot water), stirring meanwhile. When the mixture 
thickens slightly, discontinue stirring, except occasionally, 
and let cook about half an hour. Add the lemon juice or not, 
as desired. Turn into small moulds. Serve cold with boiled 
custard, currant jelly, or cream and sugar. 

EGG JUNKET, WHIPPED CREAM 

Separate the whites from the yolks of two eggs, beat the 
whites until dry and the yolks until thick; gradually add the 
yolks to the whites, beating constantly. Heat one pint of 
milk until lukewarm, about 98° Fahr., dissolve in this one- 
fourth a cup of sugar, add half a tcaspoonful of vanilla extract 



654 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and pour over the beaten eggs ; stir in a teaspoonful of liquid 
rennet, or half a junket tablet, dissolved in two teaspoonfuls of 
cold water, and turn into sherbet glasses. Let stand in a 
warm place about half an hour or until firm, then chill. Ser\'e 
with a tablespopnful of whipped cream, sweetened and fla- 
vored, on the top of each glass. 

PLAIN JUNKET WITH WINE 

Heat a pint of rich milk to ioo° Fahr., and stir in half a 
junket tablet, crushed and dissolved in half a tablespoonful of 
cold water, one-third a cup, or less, of sugar and two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy, or four of sherry or madeira; turn into 
glasses and let stand undisturbed until set. Serve thoroughly 
chilled. When fat is called for, add half a cup of cream to a 
pint of milk and proceed as before. 

SPONGE RUSKS 

Bake sponge cake mixture in a pan of such" size as to secure 
a sheet of cake half an inch thick when baked. When the 
cake is cold, cut into strips three inches wide, and these into 
short strips about an inch wide. Toast the latter or bro'wn 
in the oven upon one side, then toast or brown on the other 
side. 

Fruit jellies, Bavarian creams, custards, sherbets and cream 
ices are all useful (under supervision) in the dietary of the 
sick and convalescent. Directions for the preparation of these 
dishes; as well as of clear soups, cream soups, toast, etc.» 
which are also desirable, will be found under the headings 
of the various chapters. In cases of acute disease, or in the 
early stages of recovery from such diseases, fat is often not 
easily assimilated, and hence no droplet of fat should be left 
floating upon a cup of broth. W"hen butter is allowed upon 
toast, vegetables, or broiled meat, external heat should not be 
applied, the heat in the article should be sufficient to melt the 
butter. Eggs poached in cream or consoiiim^, with or with- 
out toast, are usually relished in the sick room. Ice cold 
foods, as cream ice, often prove most acceptable to an invahd 
suffering from fever or inflammation, when no other form of 



SPONGE RUSKS 655 

nourishment can be tolerated. At such times flavoring ex- 
tracts, or zests of lemon or orange, should not be used; nor 
should the mixture be made as sweet as in the recipes given 
under ices. Pure cream, not too heavy, with simply from 
half to three-fourths a cup of sugar to the quart, produces a 
good cream. A plain boiled custard made of the yolks of 
three eggs and two tablespoonfuls (always level) of sugar to 
a pint of milk is also good. In either case a cup of whipped 
cream, beaten into the frozen mixture, adds lightness and rich- 
ness, when the latter is desirable. This is one of the first 
articles of food prescribed by physicians to patients who are 
recDvering from severe attacks of cholera morbus. 



PART III. 
CHAPTER I. 

Marketing, Care of Food and Cooking 

Utensils 

There are two ways of marketing in vogue, both of which 
have ardent advocates. By the one, and this is largely prac- 
ticed by the women of Mexico and France, the housekeeper 
buys just what is needed for the day, no more, no less, and 
when night comes her store room is as bare as that of the 
historic Mother Hubbard on a certain occasion. The other 
might be called the American way, though it follows pretty 
closely the fashion set by our English cousins. A house- 
keeper, who believes in this way of marketing, buys her 
provisions almost at wholesale — that is, sugar and flour by 
the barrel, butter by the firkin, and canned goods by the 
dozen. 

The Mexican woman brings home her food supplies, of 
all kinds for the day, in a small gourd cup holding less than 
a quait. The French woman buys the wings and perhaps 
the second joints of a fowl. The English or American woman, 
of the same class, would be unwilling to ask for less than a 
pair of fowl, and very likely would add a ham or a pickled 
tongue. Without doubt, the former is the more economical 
method of procedure; still there is a satisfaction in the 
consciousness that one's larder is supplied for an emergency, 
which will compensate for the extra outlay, if that outlay 
be commensurate with one's income. But the purchase of 
supplies for a family, if it be wisely done, whether the family 
be large or small, is no very simple matter. It cannot he 
prescribed for every class and condition of housewives. But, 
whether one buy by wholesale or after the French fashion, 

656 



FAMILY BREAKFAST TABLE. 



SUPPLIES 657 

serve yourself, if you would be well served. Go in person 
and see what you purchase. 

SUPPLIES THAT MAY BE BOUGHT IN QUANTITY 

White flour may be bought by the barrel, if one has a 
cool, dry place for its storage. The barrel should not rest 
directly upon the floor, but be raised from it by strong sup- 
ports, so that there may be a circulation of air below as well 
as upon the sides and top. Entire wheat flour does not keep 
well and needs be bought a little at a time. Potatoes keep 
well and are lower in price, before they have been stored. 
With refrigerator and ice, butter and meats can be well 
taken care of and, besides, the meat be much improved by 
the keeping. A loin of beef or a side of mutton is a profitable 
investment in the average family. Serve the forequarter 
of mutton, "boiled" or steamed, first, as meat thus cooked 
needs be fresher than when it is roasted. The leg may be 
kept till the last. If one has no facilities fof taking care 
of meat, she can, sometimes, purchase the side or loin of 
the dealer, and he will keep it, cutting and sending as or- 
dered; but one, probably, will pay extra for such attention. 
At some markets, when a loin of beef is purchased, the 
dealer will remove the flank. If this 'part can be utilized, 
the rule of economy is subserved. The flank may be made 
into Hamburg steak or cannelon of beef, or it may be kept 
a few days*and then salted, thus being preserved for future 
use. 

The fillet spoils very quickly and should be served first. 
It may be roasted, braised, or cut in slices and broiled. Being 
deficient in flavor, it is usually larded; if braised the flavor 
of vegetables is added, and, if broiled, it is quite often served 
with a mushroom sauce. Cut the rest of the loin into steaks 
and roasts. Do not roast meat the day it comes from the 
market, unless you are sure that it has been kept long enough 
to be tender. Do not waste needful force in trying to digest 
tough roasts. One better purchase less expensive meat, 
chop in the meat chopper, fashion into compact roll and 
then roast en masse. 



658 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BACON 

A crisp, translucent cud of bacon gives relish to many a 

dish; buy only the best; tough bacon, unless the fat cooked 

from it be used in basting roasts, is a total loss. In many 

sections of the country, particularly in Canada, sides of 

tender, mild-cured bacon may be procured. Every slice 

of the ** Deerfoot Farm " bacon, put up in one and two-pound 

boxes, may be depended upon as being tender and of good 

quality. 

MILK 

Though milk does not sour as quickly in winter as during 
the hot weather, it should receive just as much care. When- 
ever it is possible, keep milk in a separate compartment of 
the refrigerator and never leave it uncovered. There is noth- 
ing gained by paying extra for milk of assured cleanliness, 
or that has been pasteurized, if it be left standing uncovered. 
Nor should milk or any food supply, even if covered, be 
left in the hot kitchen an hour or two. And especially no 
cooked food should be left uncovered. To the strong and 
robust such food may not occasion sickness, but a delicate 
ohild or an invalid will scarcely escape ill results from par- 
taking of the same, and it is no longer palatable to anyone. 

FOOD IN SEASON 

As a rule, when food is most cheap and plentiful, it is at 
its best;* out of season, it is expensive and lackiifg in flavor 
and quality. In the early spring the provident housekeeper 
will make use, to a great extent, of vegetables and fruits 
which are seasonable throughout the year, together with 
such dried and canned articles as she has found most whole- 
some and palatable, ever bearing in mind how "all things 
come to him who will but wait." The following table shows 
when certain vegetables, fish and game are seasonable. 

FISH IN MARKET ALL THE YEAR 

Cod, halibut, haddock, flounder, hard clams, hard 
crabs, sea bass and lobsters (the latter are best from Decem- 
ber to April). 



VEGETABLES IN SEASON 659 

VEGETABLES AND FRUIT ALL THE YEAR 

Artichokes (imported), beets (new in April), cabbage (new 
in August), carrots (new in May), cauliflower (new in August, 
in New England and Middle West), mushrooms (cultivated), 
onions (home grown, July to June, Bermuda, from January 
15th to July 15th), peppers (January to June, South), po- 
tatoes (South, April; Long Island, July ist; Bermuda, 
January 15th to July), sweet (August to May), lettuce (hot 
beds) garden (in June), water cress, spinach, tomatoes (March 
ist, South; July to October, garden; November to March, 
hothouse), turnips (new from June to September), bananas, 
cocoanuts, lemons, oranges (Florida, November to March, best 
November and February), from Italy and Sicily, shipped 
largely in December and January. 

FISH IN SEASON 

Lake bass, from June to January; bluefish. May to Nov- 
ember; bonito, June to November; mackerel, April to Oc- 
tober; Spanish mackerel, April 15th to October 15th; perch, 
September to June; pickerel, June to January; pompano, 
May to August, and November 15th to Jan. ist; red snapper, 
October to Ai;ril; salmon, Kennebec, June to October; Ore- 
gon, October to Jane; shad and roe, Charleston, January, 
Norfolk (Va.), February, New York, April ist, Boston, 
April 30th; smelts, August 15th to April; brook trout, April 
to September; whitebait, May to April; oysters, September 
to May; scallops, September to April; shrimps, March 15th 
to June ist, and September 15th to October 15th. 

VEGETABLES IN SEASON 

Jerusalem artichokes, October ist to May ist; asparagus, 
hot house, January to February 15th; garden, May to July; 
string beans, garden, June to October; South and hothouse, 
all the year; Lima beans, August to October; dried, all the 
year; Brussels sprouts, November 15th to March 15th; 
com, July to September; cranberries, October to May; 
cucumbers, garden, July to October; hothouse, all the 
year; oyster plant and parsnips, August to June; peas, South, 



66o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

January to July, Long Island, July to November; pumpkins, 
September to February; radishes, May to November, hot 
house, all the year; rhubarb, February to July, garden, 
April; celery, August to April; chicory, July to April; dan- 
delion, hot house, December to June; summer squash, July 
to October; winter squash, September to April. 

FRUIT IN SEASON 

Apples, August to May, all the year, cold storage; apricots, 
July 15 to August 15; barberries, October to November 15; 
blackberries, July i to August 15; cherries, May ist to July 
15 ; chestnuts, October to March; currants, July to August 15; 
figs, new crop October, all the year except midsummer; goose- 
berries, July; grapes, July to August; grape fruit, Octol^er to 
July; huckleberries, June 15 to September; melons, July to 
October; peaches, July to October; pears, July 15 to March; 
plums, July to October; quinces, September to December; 
raspberries, June to September; strawberries, garden, April 
to August, hothouse, January to March. 

GAME 

Duck, of all kinds, September to May; reed birds, Septem- 
ber to January; rice birds, September to April; grouse, part- 
ridge and woodcock, August 15 to February ist; pheasants, 
October to February; rabbits, November to January; squabs, 
September to January; squirrel, August to February; wild 
turkey, November to May; quail, stall fed, all the year, wild, 
November to P'cbruary; ])lovers and snipe, September to 
January. 

POULTRY, ETC. 

Beef, all the year, best, November to March; mutton, all the 
year, best, November to April; veal, all the year, best April 
and May; lamb, house, December 25 to July, yearling, best, 
August to November; pork, best, October to March; turkey, 
and fowl, best, October to March; chickens to broil, August, 
incubator, all the year; pigeons and squabs, stall fed, all the 
year; ducklings, May to December; domestic duck and gccse, 
September to May. 



CARE OF REFRIGERATORS 66t 

COOKING APPLIANCES AND CARE OF SAME 

To prepare three meals a day in a family of five or six mem- 
bers requires the constant attendance in the kitchen of at 
least one person, and often several people are occupied there. 
Even in a small family the kitchen is a much used room. 
Hence in the kitchen plenty of light and good ventilation are of 
utmost importance. The health of the family depends both 
directly and indirectly upon these conditions. That food ab- 
sorbs odors and germs, not only in storage but also while cook- 
ing and cooling after cooking, should not be ignored. Then, 
first of all, let us have a light, roomy and well- ventilated 
kitchen. 

In every kitchen furnished with a coal range there should 
be some means of quick cooking; this will be found economical 
in point of money and time. Indeed, where the coal range is 
not needed for heating as well as cooking, a range that affords 
quicker service is demanded. At the present time, in all large 
towns and cities, the gas range is available ; this in use should 
be provided with a hood or flue connected with the chimney, 
to remove products of combustion. Experience suggests 
many devices in the use of a gas range, and there are ap- 
pliances by which the quantity of gas consumed may be di- 
minished. 

The tile-lined ovens used in foreign lands are washed after 
the cooking of each article, to insure against the absorption 
of flavor by the next dish that is to occupy the oven, a sug- 
gestion that is worthy of notice. In planning a kitchen, a 
place for the refrigerator should be selected with care; its 
drain pipe ought not to be connected directly with the sewer. 
If possible, let the compartment for ice open on a piazza or, at 
least, out of doors. The refrigerator should be easy of access 
to the cook, for fine cooking demands many trips between 
the cooking table and ice receptacle. 

CARE OF REFRIGERATOR 

Three things are essential to the proper care and use of a 
refrigerator: cleaning the waste pipes, instant removal of any- 



662 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

thing spilled, and a full supply of ice. If the compartments 
in which food is kept be wiped out carefully once a week, no 
crumbs, drops of liquid, or particles of food being left to 
accumulate meanwhile, these will need no other attention. 
Once a week let the ice supply run low, then remove the ice, 
wash the floor under the rack upon which the ice rests, take 
out trap and removable drain pipe and, with a doth fastened 
to a rod or wire, clean out these with a strong solution of 
sal-soda. Pour the same down the remainder of the waste 
pipe, making sure that the pipe is cleaned as far down as it 
can be reached. Keep the ice compartment filled with ice. 
A large body of ice keeps better than a small one, and in- 
sures better circulation of air. Keep the doors closed. Set 
milk in closed bottles or in a compartment by itself. 

COOKING UTENSILS 

It is a positive pleasure to the workman in any calling to 
own and use good and appropriate tools. The truly good 
cook takes scrupulous care of her cooking utensils, and comes 
to have a real fondness for certain dishes. The supply of 
utensils should, however, only equal the demand, for all the 
good things in this world are of value to us only in so far as 
we can make a valid use of them. 

The heavy ironware and the more expensive copper uten- 
sils, recipients of endless polish, are now improved upon, 
save, perhaps, in point of durability and for some special uses. 
There is agate ware, and a light blue ware, white inside (im- 
ported), also a light-weight steel ware and aluminoid ware — 
these afford ample variety for choice, and, with careful usage, 
the vessels may be kept in good condition for years. All may 
be washed, inside and out, with soapy water, rhised in boiling 
water and carefully dried with a towel. If more drying be 
required, let stand on the shelf of the range. The agate and 
German wares "chip" badly under strong, dry heat. Fill 
all cooking dishes with water immediately after use. Sapolio, 
"kitchen and hand," soap and sal-soda will remove stains 
that adhere — except in the case of aluminoid ware. Alkalies 
like baking soda and sal-soda tarnish aluminoid. Also the 



COOKING UTENSILS 663 

highly polished exterior of aluminoid utensils scratches easily, 
and for repolishing these a paste made of sifted whiting and 
soapy water is more satisfactory. Rub over the surfaces 
with the paste, let dry, then polish with a clean, soft cloth. 

Old linty dish-cloths and coffee grounds, in conjunction 
with grease, occasion most of the calls for the plumber as far 
as the kitchen sink is concerned, and are a source to him of no 
inconsiderable revenue yearly. A fine sieve should first 
receive all waste water in its passage through the sink. New 
cloth should always be taken for dish-cloths and, as soon as 
signs of wear appear, these may be utilized in wiping out 
greasy dishes, then in kindling the fire. Add dissolved soap 
or sal-soda (ammonia or caustic soda are better because 
stronger) to greasy water; these form emulsions (soaps) with 
the fats which pass through the pipes. Three or four times 
a week flush the drain with a boiling solution of sal-soda, 
using half a cup of sal-soda to three quarts of water. 

Many housekeepers seem to think that, if the tableware be 
carefully washed, other dishes will do without much attention. 
This is an extremely erroneous idea. Every dish in which 
food is to be placed should receive scrupulous attention. 
Smooth clean dishes are always a chief requisite in good cook- 
ing, and in sauce-making they are absolutely a sine qua non. 
A sauce is used to give richness and flavor to that which is 
without these desirable elements. If the dish be not sweet 
and clean, or if it be rough, so that the sauce bums, or "catches 
on," as we say, at any point, those are the flavors carried by 
the sauce; for butter absorbs odors and flavors most per- 
sistently. Nor will any amount of outside flavor, that may 
be added, cover up those that have been, as it were, burned 
into the foundation of the sauce. No particle of matter re- 
mains long unchanged. Bacteria are ever at work, and if 
we do not wish to introduce undesirable elements into bread, 
cake, etc., dishes with painstaking care must be made ready 
to receive the ingredients that enter into the composition of 
these dishes. 



CHAPTER II 

Office of Food in the Body 

"Old men bear want of food best; then those that are adults: 
youths bear it least, most especially children, and of them the most 
lively are the least capable of enduring it." — Hippocrates. 

Foods or food principles (Chapter I, Part I) supply us 
with means to carry on the work of the body — i.e.. the different 
processes incident to the existence of a living, thinking being 
and the work carried on outside of the body, or ** productive 
work. " 

It is estimated that about one-third of the energy con- 
tained in the food we assimilate can be utilized in productive 
work, the other two-thirds are needed internally in carr>''ing 
on the processes of life. The several food principles serve the 
body in different ways. Take the two great principles, pro- 
tein and carbohydrate ; study their composition and the reason 
for this is obvious. All food contains carbon; oxygen taken in 
through the lungs unites with carbon, a chemical change 
results, heat and energy are produced, and carbon dioxide, a 
waste product, is formed. Without a supply of oxygen the 
carbon could not be burned and the life's process would cease. 
Carbon, slowly oxidized in the body, gives off just as much bea: 
and supplies just as much force as in case it were burned out- 
side the body. 

Of the carbohydrates, fats and oils (often called hydrocar- 
bons) have greater fuel value than starch. The chemical 
elements are the same in all, but in starch the proportions 
are six — or a multiple of six — parts of carbon to hydrogen 
and oxygen in the proportions found in water, viz. : two parts 
hydrogen to one of oxygen. In fats and oils, the relative pro- 
portion of the oxygen is much smaller, and the combustion of 
these calls for a greater quantity of oxygen from the air and, 

664 



OFFICE OF FOOD IN THE BODY 665 

in consequence, a greater amount of heat and muscular power 
is evolved. The body also changes the carbohydrates of food 
into fat. This fat and that stored directly from the fat in 
food are kept in the body as a reserve supply of fuel for use in 
times of need. 

The proteids also contain carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, 
but they contain as well an element not found in the carbo- 
hydrates, nitrogen. Oxygen from the air unites with the 
nitrogen in the food to form compounds which build and 
repair bodily tissues. This, then, is the primal office of the 
proteids, and it cannot be relegated to foods from the group, 
carbohydrates. The gelatinoids are useful in promoting nutri- 
tion and save the waste of the real tissue builders. They do 
not, however, build tissue. Broth of meat to which nothing 
is added is not a tissue builder. 

Of course, if the best fuel be not provided, the system can 
utilize proteid to produced heat and energy, but it is not the 
part of wisdom or economy to call upon the more expensive 
foods, which contain this element, to do the work that may 
be quite as satisfactorily done by the cheaper carbohydrates ; 
for health itself depends upon securing the right proportions 
of these principles. 

Not all of the food taken into the system is made use of and 
assimilated. A part passes away as waste matter. The kid- 
neys are the organs whose office is to eliminate this waste from 
nitrogenous or proteid foods, and if these be overtaxed dis- 
orders of serious nature follow. The evil results of a diet 
deficient in proteid, during the period of growth, are often 
even more marked. As a rule, the rich are in poor health 
because food rich in this principle is ingested too freely, while 
the children of the middle classes and the poor are warped 
and stunted mentally and pliysically for lack of material 
suitable to proper growth. An adult can get along very well 
if a meal once in a while does not come up in all respects to 
the required standard. He has fat stored in tissues which 
can be called upon in time of need and burned or oxidized in 
place of food. Not so in the case of a young and growing 
child. Too often lean and tall, he has little roperve force. 



666 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



and needs the full complement of food at each of his three or 
four meals per day. When he reaches the age of about twelve 
or thirteen, the factor of flavor comes in; and too much care 
cannot be exercised in selecting palatable dishes. . 

OFFICE OF FOOD PRINCIPLES OR NUTRIENTS IN THE 

BODY 

Protein, as white (albumen) 

of eggs, curd (casein) of 

milk, lean meat, gluten 

of wheat and grains and 

other vegetable proteid 

(formerly called legumen) 
Fats, as fat of meat, but- 
ter, olive oil and other 

vegetable oils 

Carbohydrates, as sugar, 
starch, etc. 



Forms tissue 



Mineral matters, as phos- 
phates of lime, soda, etc. 



Are stored in body 
as fat 

Are transformed 

into fat 
Share in forming 

bone, assist in 

digestion 



All act as fuel 
yielding energy 
in the form of 
heat and mus- 
cular power. 



The most common proteids are white of eggs, lean meat, 
the casein of milk, the gluten of wheat, and the proteid of 
vegetables (found in peas, beans, and lentils). The protein 
of vegetables is less easily and completely digested than that of 
meat, and though most useful it is not quite so valuable as 
the more easily assimilated animal food. Chloride of sodium 
(common salt) and lime, both important elements in the for- 
mation of teeth and bone, and in maintenance of the integrity 
of the system, are largely found in fresh fruits, vegetables and 
grains. Often the supply of fresh fruit and vegetables is 
limited during the winter season, and in the spring the system 
calls for elements that have been wanting. True, common 
salt has been supplied in the food, and lime may have been 
given, but these crude substances are not identical with the 
lime and salt contained in fruit, vegetables and grains. Here 
these substances have been organized and fitted for appro- 
priation by animal life, while in an unorganized state they 
tend to disturb digestion. The evidence is strong that com- 



OFFICE OF FOOD IN THE BODY 667 

mon salt, in excess, may cause kidney disorders, leading even 
to Blight's disease. In making out dietaries, the first thing 
to determine is the part which a food must perform for the 
individuals in question. Are they building or only repairing 
tissue ? Are they active or sluggish ? Is the temperature in 
which they live warm or cold? The foregoing summary of 
this chapter, on page 666, is largely adapted from a schedule 
by Professor Atwater. 



CHAPTER III 

Referring- to a Well -Balanced Menu or 

Dietary 

. "A meal — what is it? Just enough of food to renovate and well 
refresh the frame, so that, with spirits lightened and with strength 
renewed, we turn with willingness to work again." 

In the chapter on Hospitality, reference is made to what 
may be called, for want of a better term, menus of inheritance, 
but in these later days frequent mention is made of a '* well- 
balanced menu," and a word on this subject may not be 
amiss. The remark is common that the importance of diet to 
health is just now beginning to receive attention, but this is 
not strictly true. The old philosophers wrote on this subject 
and understood its import, but the condition of the times did 
not lead them to treat the matter after the scientific spirit of 
these later days. Whatever of accurate knowledge we pos- 
sess of this and kindred subjects is due primarily to the inves- 
tigations of the Germans. The German Government, by 
generous expenditure of money, made it possible for some of 
the brightest minds in the land to devote themselves to the 
task, and the universities provided a place for carrying out the 
necessary experiments. Then our own Government took up 
the matter, and, for the past fifteen years, Professor At water 
and his colleagues have been working along similar lines of 
effort and in the same scientific spirit. But neither the old 
philosophers, the scientific Germans, nor our own country- 
men, have ever been able to formulate a dietary that can be 
said to be "constant. " For feeding is an individual matter: 
and w^hile dietaries, worked out in the laboratory, are helpful 
in a general way, each housekeeper must of necessity work 
out these problems independently, since the needs of no two 
families, of no two individuals, even, in the same family are 

668 



MEASURES OF NUTRITIVE VALUE 669 

exactly alike. Indeed, the proper dietary for one individual 
is a '* variable equation, " for each day he is a day older. 

And, besides, the individual housekeeper has neither the 
kind of training, the proper appliances, nor the requisite time, 
to enter into original investigation. Availing herself, how- 
ever, of the figures and deductions of trained scientists, she 
may formulate dietaries for her family that shall, in the quan- 
tity and relative proportion of the different food principles, 
approximate very nearly to what may be called the standard 
or laboratory requirements. The desire to do this, seconded 
by an attempt, is a long step in the right direction. 

In studying formulas that have been worked out in the 
laboratory for different classes and ages of individuals, we 
need keep in mind two things: (ist) that these dietaries do not 
take into consideration personal idiosyncrasies of digestion, 
assimilation, and excretion; (2d) that the food value of the 
same nutrients varies, and that its conservation depends 
in large measure upon the skill of the cook. 

MEASURE OF NUTRITIVE VALUE 

The nutritive value of any given food stuff is measured by 
the amount of heat liberated .during its oxidation into those 
chemical combinations in which it is to leave the organism. 

The unit of measure is the calorie, which is equivalent to 
the amount of heat necessary to raise one kilogram of water 
one degree centigrade, or what is nearly the same thing, one 
pound of water 4° Fahr. 

Taking our common food materials as they are used in ordi- 
nary diet, the following general estimate has been made of 
the energy funrished to the body by one gram, or one pound, 
of each of the classes of nutrients. 

Protein, fuel value, 4 calories per gram, or 1,820 calories per lb. 
Fats, fuel value, 8.9 calories per gram, or 4,040 calories per lb. 
Carbohydrates, fuel value. 4 calories per gram, or 1,820 calories 
per lb. (Atwater). 

It will be seen that the fuel value, or capacity for yielding 
heat and mechanical power, of a pound of protein of lean 
meat, or albumen of egg, is just about equivalent to a pound 



670 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of starch, or sugar (carbohydrate), and a little over two 
pounds of either would be required to equal a pound of the 
fat of meat or butter. It is evident, then, that the fuel value 
of food depends upon the amount of actual nutrients, and 
especially upon the amount of fat, it contains. 

Atwater estimates "that an average man, at moderately 
active labor, like a carpenter or mason, should have about 115 
grams or 0.25 pound of available protein and sufficient fuel 
ingredients, in addition, to make the fuel value of the whole 
(day's) diet 3.400 calories; while a man at sedentary em- 
ployment would be well nourished with 92 grams or 0.20 
pound of available protein and enough fats and carbohy- 
drates, in addition, to yield 2.700 calories of energy. 

In calculating dietaries it is considered that the food of a 
woman, or a boy from fourteen to sixteen years of age in- 
clusive, should provide 0.8 the fuel value of a man's food at 
moderate muscular labor; a girl fourteen to sixteen years of 
age requires 0.7, a child ten to thirteen, 0.6, a child six to 
nine, 0.5, a child two to five, 0.4, respectively, in fuel value of 
the food of a man at moderate muscular labor. 

In making dietary studies for a week or more, begin with a 
certain quantity of food products, the weight of which is 
known, add to this the weight of all articles purchased during 
the period, then, when the ** study" is completed, deduct the 
weight of all articles remaining on hand. The difiference 
gives the weight of the articles used. Deduct from each 
article the weight of refuse left upon the plates, and the 
amounts actually consumed will be known. Then by the use of 
the tables showing the composition of the several articles, the 
fuel value of the protein, fat and carbohydrate in each 
article may be determined. A simple example in addition 
will give the fuel value of each nutrient (food principle) for 
the week. These figures will demonstrate whether the week*s 
food has been "properly balanced" and show wherein the 
deficiency or excess lies. 

In actual practice, this work may be shortened and simph- 
fied, as the tables given at the head of the respective chapters 



i 



SAMPLE MENU FOR FAMILY OF SIX 671 

in this book give the fuel value of a pound of each food stuff, 
and this quantity multiplied by the number of pounds con- 
sumed gives the total fuel value of both protein and carbo- 
hydrate. Then, when the quantity of protein has been deter- 
mined, the solution is simple. To illustrate, menus have been 
worked out below for a family of six for one day. The manner 
of determining the amount of protein and the fuel value of one 
or two articles will suffice for all. 

In the breakfast menu, boiled eggs are given: eight eggs 
weigh one pound; by consulting the chapter on eggs, it will 
be found that 13.1% of a pound of eggs is protein, that is, the 
decimal .131 represents the protein in the eggs. The fuel 
value is given as 635 calories. 

Take mashed potatoes in the dinner menu (see table in 
chapter on Vegetables), the protein in potatoes is given at 
2.5% and the fuel value as 440 calories per pound respectively. 
Thirty-seven thousandths and 660 represent the value of the 
protein and the fuel value of a pound and a half of potatoes. 
The protein in butter is too small in quantity to consider, the 
high percentage of the fat gives a fuel value of 3,605 calories 
to a pound. An ounce yields one sixteenth of this or 225 
calories. Six ounces of milk is three-eighths of a pound, three- 
eighths of 3.3 (protein) and 325 (fuel value) gives .012 and 120 
as the quantity of protein and calories of fuel in the milk. By 
adding the figures in the columns representing the protein 
and calories of fuel value, the amount consumed by the family 
and the calories released in energy is determined; dividing 
by four gives the proportion for one man. 

SAMPLE MENU FOR FAMILY OF SIX 

Man at moderate muscular labor, woman, two girls, 12 and 
6 ; two boys, 10 and 8 years of age. This family (see page 672) 
requires the same number of calories of heat and potential 
energy as four men at moderate muscular labor — i. e.: 



672 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BREAKFAST 

Fael 
Weight Protein Value 

lbs. oz. Pounds Calocies 

Oranges 2 ,012 300 

Oatmeal : 

Oatmeal 4 . 042 465 

Milk 6 .012 120 

Sugar a 23; 

Boiled eggs (8) i o .131 635 

Corn cake (no eggs) i 4 . 106 1.438 

Butter 4 880 

CofTee : 

Sugar 2 .001 235 

Milk 6 .012 130 

Total 

DINNER 

Broiled beefsteak, lean 2 

Mashed Potatoes: 

Potatoes I 

Butter 

Milk 

Spinach 

Butter 

Bread 

Butter 

Baked Apple Tapioca Pudding: 

Apples 

Tapioca 

Sugar 

Cream 







.316 


4.42S 


2 




•342 


1*570 


I 


8 


.037 


660 




I 




225 




3 


.006 


60 


I 


4 


.027 


i3« 




I 




s»5 




12 


.071 


910 




4 




900 


I 




.004 


2S5 




4 


.001 


4i» 




4 




47« 




4 


.006 


22S 



Total . 494 6<^|^i 



SUPPER 

Creamed Codfish: 

Salt codfish 8 .128 245 

Milk I 

Butter I 

Flour 1 



« 



033 Z^S 

22> 



.007 103 

One egg 2 .016 7S 



LUNCHEON TABLE. CENTREPIECE OF SWEET PEAS. 



LUNCHEON TABLE WITH FRINGED DOILIES. 



SAMPLE MENU FOR FAMILY OF SIX 673 



Fuel 
Weight Protein value 

lbs. oz. Pounds Calories 

Baked Potatoes: i .025 440 

Butter 4 900 

Biscuit I .084 1,430 

Tea: 

Milk and sugar .012 353 

Total . 305 4,099 

Protein Calories 

Total for one day 1055 14,588 

Total for one man .278 3,647 

Standard estimate, Atwater 25 3,400 

Both the amount of protein and the number of calories of 
energy are in excess of the standard. This gives an oppor- 
tunity to study the menu more critically, though the excess 
in this menu in connection with other menus day after day, 
would probably be overbalanced before many days. For it 
is to be considered that, in periods of a week or ten days, the 
diet is more likely to approach the standard than when a single 
day is taken into account. By omitting the cream with the 
pudding at dinner, the total for one man becomes .26 of pro- 
tein and 3,590 calories. Reduce the number of eggs in the 
breakfast menu to four and use these with cooked rice in an 
omelet, and the figures (counting the butter used in cooking 
and the rice) become ,25 of protein and 3,623 calories. 



CHAPTER IV. 

The Physiology of Digestion 

"Preser\'e and treat food as you would your body, remembering 
that in time food will be your body." 

Food ingested to supply the solid waste of the body is taken 
from the external world; and this food needs contain all the 
elements of the body, the principal of which are carbon, hy- 
drogen, nitrogen, iron, etc. These, except oxygen, cannot be 
taken into the body as elements, but need be presented in 
combination, as albumen, starch, sugar. These are called 
the food principles. Plants live upon elements (that is, 
plants cannot take care of complex substances), and, in the 
process of assimilation and growth, they unite or fashion the 
elements into food principles. Mankind takes these more 
complex structures and, by the processes of cooking and 
digestion, changes them into soluble and diffusible matter, 
which may be assimilated and made a part of human flesh and 
blood. 

In making out bills-of-fare, it is quite necessary to consider, 
not only the office which each food principle performs in the 
body, but also various points relative to the subject of diges- 
tion. 

The digestive process is both mechanical and chemical ; and 
for present purpose it has to do with mastication, insalivation. 
gastric and intestinal digestion. 

MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 

On being taken into the mouth, solid food comes under the 
mechanical action of the teeth, by which it is cut, crushed, 
and ground, or finely divided, at the same time it is becoming 
mixed with the mucus and saliva from the glands of the 
mouth. The action of the teeth and mucus is purely mechani- 
cal, but that of the saliva is chemical. The ptyalin of the 

674 



PANCREATIC JUICE 675 

saliva is a ferment, and in an alkaline media it changes starch 
into dextrin and maltose (malt sugar). The importance of 
thorough mastication and insalivation becomes obvious^ when 
we consider that the digestion of starch is not continued — 
except possibly for a few moments after the food first enters 
the stomach and before it is permeated by the acid of the 
gastric juice — until it meets the pancreatic juice in the small 
intestine. The latter is secreted by the pancreas, sometimes 
called the abdominal salivary gland. This juice is poured 
into the process most freely two or three hours after a meal, 
or at about the time that stomach digestion ceases. For, 
though starch is not digested in the stomach, it remains there 
and passes on at the same time with other food to the small 
intestine. 

PANCREATIC JUICE AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION 

Pancreatic juice contains several ferments: (i) Amylopsin, 
resembling the ptyalin of the saliva, which finishes the diges- 
tion of starch that had been begun in the mouth by the 
ptyalin; (2) trypsin, a ferment like pepsin, capable of con- 
verting proteids into peptones; (3) a milk-curdling ferment, 
like rennet; (4) steapsin, capable of decomposing fats into 
fatty acids and glycerin; possibly, also, a fifth ferment that 
emulsifies the fats, dividing them into smaller and smaller 
droplets, until they can be taken up by the cells lining the 
intestines and so pass into the blood. The blood deposits 
them between the bundles of muscle ready for use when 
needed. 

STARCH AND ACID OR TEA NOT A PROPER FOOD 

COMBINATION 

Neither ptyalin nor amylopsin can act in an acid media. 
This indicates that starch and acids do not form a suitable 
food combination. Tea, probably, by its astringent property, 
arrests the activity of both the salivary glands and the pan- 
creas. As the secretions from these organs are the only 
agencies in the system by which starch is digested, tea and 
starchy food evidently do not form a hygienic combination. 
It follows, then, that the proper time for tea-drinking is not 
until the food has left the stomach: then it may be taken as a 



676 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

stimulant. Neither ptyalin nor amylopsin is developed in 
children until the teeth begin to appear : hence it were wise to 
give no starchy food to children until after the first year, 
except that which has been converted into dextrin or maltose 
outside the body. 

The starch in a piece of bread, properly toasted, and in the 
crust of a loaf, properly baked, are easily digested, because 
the starch has been changed to dextrin and, being dry and 
hard, they cannot be swallowed until masticated for some 
time, thus insuring the digestive action of the ptyalin and the 
change into maltose. By the law of oppositesthis explains 
why fresh bread, which of itself is no more indigestible than 
stale bread, is considered unwholesome and indigestible. If 
mastication be but continued long enough, fresh and stale 
bread are equally digestible. 

STOMACH, OR GASTRIC, DIGESTION 

The stomach is lined with mucous membrane, filled with 
countless glands and ducts. These microscopic organs both 
secrete and absorb fluids. The gastric glands secrete the 
gastric juice. Like the salivary glands, these are excited to 
activity by the presence of food, in this case, in the stomach. 
The gastric juice contains the ferments, pepsin and rennin, 
and free hydrochloric acid. The rennin curdles milk and the 
pepsin acts upon proteid matters and, in conjunction with 
hydrochloric acid, dissolves and converts them into albumose 
and finally into peptone. Peptone, compared with albumen 
in its first estate, is very diffusible and passes at once into the 
blood-vessels of the stomach. 

RESULTS OP GASTRIC DIGESTION 

The results of gastric digestion may be summed up as fol- 
lows: Proteids are changed into albumose, then into pep- 
tone. Fats are liberated by solution of the cell walls. Starch 
is not affected. Sugar is partly changed into dextrose and 
partly into lactic acid. During the process all soluble matter 
— i. e., water, soluble salts, and peptones — are being absorbed 
by the walls of the stomach, and the rest of the proteids, 



INTESTINAL DIGESTION 677 

together with the fats and starches and the greater bulk of 
the sugars, pass into the upper bowel, or small intestine. 

CONDITIONS NECESSARY TO SECURE PROPER STOMACH 

DIGESTION 

1. The careful subdivision and insalivation of the food by 
mastication. 

This condition is necessary for proteid food, in order that 
the stomach may not be called upon for too vigorous action 
in changing proteid into a semi-fluid mass, and for starch, to 
insure the change into dextrin and sweet substances that may 
be affected by the gastric juices. 

2. The proper temperature of the food, which should be 
about 100° Fahrenheit. 

3. The ingestion of a sufficient quantity of liquid, and no 
more, when added to the digestive fluids, to insure the con- 
version of the food into a semi-fluid mass, or, in other words, 
the avoidance of "washing down*' the food with either hot 
or cold liquids. 

4. Freedom from violent exercise half an hour before and 
after meals. 

5. No eating between meals and no irregularity in the 
meal-time. 

On account of its muscular structure, the stomach, in a^!- 
cordance with the laws of the muscular system, requires 
periodic rest. 

6. The flow of the digestive fluids is largely dependent 
upon cheerful atmosphere and conversation at meal-times. 

INTESTINAL DIGESTION, CONTINUED 

Besides the pancreatic juice, before referred to, bile from 
the liver and the intestinal juice itself are active in carrying 
on the digestive process in the small intestine: absorption 
takes place chiefly here. This is made possible by the finger- 
like projections, called villi, into which the inner surface of the 
intestine is thrown. These projections dip into the fluid mass 
of food, absorbing digestible materials, peptones, fats, etc., 
which are carried, thus, into the blood and lymphatic vessels. 



678 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

EFFECTS OF UNSUITABLE FOOD 

When the mucous surface of the membrane is irritated by 
improper food, the glands become over-excited and pour out 
a large quantity of fluid, and diarrhoea may result. If the 
irritation be continued, the glands become exhausted and 
unable to act, and dryness, causing constipation, results. In 
the absence of all irritating food, less juice is secreted and con- 
stipation follows. In selecting a dietary, enough waste or 
indigestible matter needs be provided, to insure a moderate 
flow of intestinal juice, otherwise the bowels will not be kept 
open. 

One who understands the process of digestion thoroughly 
is often able, when occasion requires, to regulate his diet to 
nicety. For instance, in cases of hyper-acidity of the stomach, 
if this be caused by over-activity of the gastric glands, the 
larger use of fats, in some form, which tend to depress such 
secretion, would be indicated. As a rule, the ingestion of a 
food principle incites the flow of the fluids that digest it; and, 
if too much of any fluid be secreted, other principles might 
be substituted, until such time as the digestive equilibrium 
can be maintained. 

We have said that bread and tea were not a good dietetic 
combination. Butter, however, is an aid to the digestion of 
bread. Fats are digested in the intestine, where they stimu- 
late the secretion of the pancreatic juice. Here, also, may be 
digested whatever starch — bread is largely starch — has 
escaped the ptyalin of the saliva; and the presence of the fat 
(butter) insures sufficient activity of the pancreas to digest 
the starch. 

Starch and fat in the form of pastry is quite another matter, 
though even here thorough mastication is a precautionar\- 
measure. In pastry, the starch granules are enveloped in 
fat, which is not affected by the ptyalin. The fat keeps the 
ptyalin from the starch and the latter is not changed in any 
manner, until it comes into contact with the amylopsin of 
the pancreatic juice. At this point the fat, by stimulating this 
secretion, aids in the digestion of the pastry as a whole. 



CHAPTER V. 

Sugrgestions on Garnishing and Serving 

" Dainty ways of serving food have a usefulness beyond their 
aesthetic value. Every one knows that a feeble appetite is often 
tempted by a tastefully garnished dish, when the same material care- 
lessly served would seem quite unpalatable. Furthermore, many 
cheap articles and ' left overs ' when well seasoned and attractively 
served may be just as appetising as dearer ones, and will usually be 
found quite as nutritious." — W. O. Atwater, Ph. D. 

A DISH is garnished for two reasons. The garnish is either 
to make the dish more attractive to the eye, as when a sprig 
of parsley and slice of lemon is laid upon a chop or bit of fish ; 
or, to add to the food value and at the same time to the looks 
of the dish, as when macaroni in tomato sauce surrounds a 
dish of tenderloin cutlets. In garnishing a dish, two things 
must be kept in mind: the garnish must be appropriate 
to the article served, and it must be so disposed as not to 
interfere with the service. One-third of the serving-dishes 
should be left clear even of the garnish. Edible articles are 
more appropriate than are those which are used simply for 
looks. Utility is a prime consideration. As a rule sweets are 
not used with savory dishes ; an exception is made of candied 
and maraschino cherries, preserved whole currants, or straw- 
berries, and small pieces of sweet pickle. These are occa- 
sionally seen in a wreath of parsley or watercress surrounding 
a roast of beef or mutton, broiled chickens or birds. Four or 
five cherries accompany each portion. Pistachio nuts are 
also used for both sweet and savory dishes. Flat croquettes 
of chicken or sweetbread are particularly adapted to decora- 
tion with this nut. The use of full-blown roses, buds or 
petals is confined to sweet dishes, while nasturtium leaves, 
blossoms and tendrils are appropriate for meats, salads, etc. 

679 



68o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Parsley is preferred with fish, and cress with beef and 
mutton. 

Toast in any form is out of place on the same dish with 
potatoes, or shapes, cut from puff paste. Bread for toast 
garnish should be cut before toasting. Triangles, pyramids, 
diamonds, cutlet shapes, cubes and cases are the usual forms. 
Variety can be given these by the use of toasters with wires 
differently arranged, or by dipping the edges or a portion of 
the toast in fine-chopped parsley. These are used principally 
with creamed dishes or dishes served in connection with a 
sauce. 

Julienne, Saratoga, or French fried potatoes look and taste 
well with croquettes, cutlets, steaks and chops and do not pre- 
clude the use of a slice of lemon and a few sprigs of cress. 

Potato or pea "roses" are very attractive with almost any 
meat or fish dish. Diamonds of mashed or duchess potato, 
with a spoonful of peas in cream sauce in the centre (see page 
291), are a favorite with baked fillets of fish. Their use, 
however, necessitates disposing the fish sauce in a dish apart. 

Garnishes made from hard-boiled eggs are numerous. These 
may be cut in quarters, or eighths,lengthwise, in rings or in half 
rings ; or the whites may be chopped fine and the yolks sifted. 
The pointed end may be cut off and the white, from which 
the yolk is removed, fastened with liquid gelatine to the 
pointed end resting on a plate, and these vases may be filled 
with capers or mayonnaise dressing. The white and yolks, 
beaten and poached, separately, may be cut in thin slices, 
from which various figures may be stamped. As a border to 
enclose a salad, the ends of lengthwise eighths of egg may 
be cut to stand evenly and fastened to the plate with liquid 
gelatine, to form a crown. 

Aspic jelly, cut in cubes or diamonds, or made fine with a 
fork and pushed through a forcing bag and tube, garnishes 
cold meat, chaudfroids, etc. 

Figures, cut from sHces of pickled beet and laid upon shoes 
of lemon, give a suggestion of color often desiriable. The 
same effect is secured with radishes cut in various ways without 
removal of the outer skin. 



GARNISHES FOR ROAST MUTTON 68 1 

Slices of lemon, with rind complete or notched, dipped into 
fine-chopped parsley, make a change from the plain slice. 
Fine-chopped parsley is always effective, sprinkled on potato 
balls or the top of a dish of creamed or mashed potato. The 
edge of timbale cases (pastry) used for creamed dishes, espe- 
cially of fish or oysters, when dipped in beaten white of egg 
and then in chopped parsley, present an especially festive ap- 
pearance. In addition to the garnishes above enumerated, 
the following for special dishes deserve mention. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST CHICKEN, TURKEY AND 

ENTREES 

Celery leaves, lettuce, cut in ribbons, barberries and leaves; 
fried oysters, singly or in groups with or without green leaves ; 
blanched chestnuts, glazed, alternating with sausage cakes, 
(k la Reyniere) ; blanched chestnuts, glazed, alternating with 
small sausage links, grouped in threes; mushroom forcemeat 
balls; celery, mushroom or chestnut croquettes; mushroom 
or chestnut pur^e. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST DUCK 

Olives, plain, or stoned and stuffed, black currant jelly in 
rice or hominy croustades. Half slices of orange (with skin) 
and endive leaves. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST GOOSE 

Broiled sausage, gooseberry sauce, apple and barberry jelly, 
cooked rings of apple, centres filled with jelly, 

GARNISHES FOR QUAIL 

Squares of fried mush, cubes of currant jelly above. 

GARNISHES FOR CANVASBACK DUCK, REDHEAD DUCK, 

ETC. 

Serve broiled or roasted wild birds of any kind on slices 
of toast or croutons spread with the mashed liver, seasoned 
with salt and pepper, onion juice and butter, and moistened 
with the dripping from which all fat has been taken. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST SADDLE OP MUTTON OR 

VENISON 

Turnip cups, cooked and glazed and filled with peas mixed 
with Bemaise Sauce; rice cups holding currant jelly; rings of 



682 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

tart apple, cooked in syrup or in currant jelly reduced with 
syrup, fried bananas. 

Garnishes for soups are given in the chapter on Soups; 
celery and olives are passed with soup. 

No more than two varieties of vegetables should accom- 
pany a course ; if another be desired, serve with a choice sauce, 
as an entree after the roast. Tomatoes with mayonnaise 
dressing appear at dinner as an entree. 

VEGETABLES SERVED WITH FISH 

Potatoes, tomatoes, or peas cooked in any manner de- 
sired, or tomatoes and cucumbers uncooked, may be served 
with fish; also onions, drained and refreshed several times 
while cooking and covered with a cream sauce, are served with 
fish. If the fish be served with a sauce, the vegetables, 
onions excepted, should be served without a sauce, as, po- 
tatoes, plain boiled, French-fried, baked, croquettes, balls, etc. 

VEGETABLES SERVED WITH ROAST BEEP 

With roast beef the favorite methods of serving potatoes 
are Franconia or baked with the beef, escalloped, mashed, or 
mashed and browned. Other vegetables that may accom- 
pany the roast are cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, new beets, 
beet greens, spinach, salsify, tomatoes, onions, squash, white 
turnips, green corn, peas, and beans of all kinds, and rice, 
hominy, farina or macaroni. 

Beefsteak, mutton or lamb chops are accompanied by 
sweet or white potatoes in any form, fresh-cooked or warmed 
over, or by any of the vegetables served with roast beef. 
Asparagus is often served with meat, but it is more appropri- 
ately served as a course by itself. 

With stewed or braised beef, potatoes, turnips, parsnips, 
carrots, tomatoes, peas, beans or vegetables k la jardiniere 
are served. 

With corned beef serve boiled potatoes (sweet or white). 
turnips, cabbage, beets, carrots, beet tops, spinach, dande- 
lions, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, and parsnips. 

Boiled mutton or lamb may be accompanied by boiled 



VEGETABLES SERVED WITH ROAST BEEF 683 

potatoes, turnips, salsify, onions, carrots, cauliflower, Brus- 
sels sprouts, spinach or green beans. 

Roast mutton calls for same vegetables as roast beef, and 
also red-currant jelly and baked or fried bananas. 

With roast lamb, potatoes, green peas, beans, spinach, 
summer squash, white turnips, and asparagus — if this latter be 
not desired as a separate course — are served. 

With veal, roast or braised, choose white turnips, spinach, 
beet tops, young beets, peas, beans, dandelions, or escalloped 
cabbage. 

Roast pork calls for potatoes (white or sweet), squash, 
onions, turnips, parsnips, spinach, salsify, or cauliflower, 
and apple sauce. 

Serve with poultry, roasted or boiled, potatoes (white or 
sweet), turnips, celery, cooked or uncooked, onions, Brussels 
sprouts, cauliflower, squash, mushrooms, green com, peas 
and beans, rice, and cranberry sauce. Asparagus accom- 
panies broiled spring chicken. 

With game, the vegetables are usually prepared in a some- 
what elaborate manner. The vegetable considered the vege- 
table par excellence is celery, which may be served plain, 
stewed in cream sauce, braised with a brown sauce, or as a 
salad. Other vegetables are white potatoes in croquettes, 
or balls, sweet potatoes, glazed, tomatoes, broiled, or in a 
salad, cauliflower au gratin, spinach a la creme, or peas. 
Olives and black-currant j^lly are passed with duck; currant 
jelly, with venison; and fried hominy, with grouse and duck. 

Use only silver implements (silver fish slice, spoon or fork) 
in serving fish not protected with a covering of egg and crumbs. 



CHAPTER VI. 

Hospitality and the Etiquette of Entertaining 

"He must leave the omniscience of business at the door when he 
comes into the palace of beauty." 

At the beginning of the Christian era, hospitality was en- 
joined as a sacred duty. Timothy enumerates among the 
attributes of a bishop that he "must be a lover of hospitality." 
The laity also are exhorted by him to "use hospitality one to 
another without grudging." In those days, when inns did 
not abound, and the traveler could not readily procure food 
and shelter, an indiscriminate entertaining of guests must 
have been oftentimes a tax on courtesy. 

But, as times changed, invitations began to precede and 
become warrant for the acceptance of hospitality; and the 
old time duty was gradually transformed into a flattering 
expression of personal favor. For trust and confidence in one 
who has been invited into the presence of your lares are im- 
plied. 

Eating is a chief and natural concern of life. It is, more- 
over, a pleasure; and she who charges herself with the enter- 
tainment of a guest becomes responsible, in a measure at 
least, for his temporary comfort and happiness. Like all 
other pleasures, that of the table is increased as it is shared; 
yet those who are bidden to break bread together should be 
congenial spirits. There needs be some common ground upon 
which all can meet. It is Montaigne who says that a man 
is not so much to regard what he eats as with whom he eats; 
and he commends Chilo "that he would not engage himself 
to be at Periander's feast till he first was informed who were 
to be the other guests." The sequence is natural; for, when 
one entertains another, and eats and drinks with more de- 
liberation than is customar>' — hygienic considerations to the 

684 



HOSPITALITY 685 

contrary — the hour needs be filled with **good discourse and 
pleasant talk." This it is that best gives relish to a feast. 

Having bidden, then, congenial company to meet at her 
table, the hostess must needs give attention to the food that 
is to supply the mental and physical wants of her guests. 
As no one course must be drawn out to unseemly length, so 
no one subject of conversation should engross too much at- 
tention. Then, too, the discourse, like the dishes in the menu, 
must be such as will be appreciated by the company. Same- 
ness, which engenders weariness, needs be avoided; and con- 
troversy must never be admitted. Upon the hostess devolves 
largely the duty of keeping the conversational ball rolling 
briskly back and forth, to the end that each guest may take 
his turn without apparent effort or seeming premeditation. 
Truly, the hostess plays no inconsiderable part in a successful 
evening's drama; and, certainly, to cultivate and refine one's 
taste, to learn how to lose one's self in the study of what 
is pleasing to others, has its influence in the formation of 
character itself. The menu provided for the ''refection'* of 
the physical body, while it should be in harmony with the 
environments and enlivened by the judicious introduction 
of little surprises, need not be ornate or extravagant. "Fla- 
mingoes from Sweden, game from Africa and South America, 
and pears from Assyria" are not called for. 

Within the past twenty-five years times have changed. 
The "decline of the kitchen" has become an assured fact; 
and the dweller in a flat, be it in Paris, New York, or the 
suburb of a more unpretentious city, should not seek to essay 
the impossible. The vast and seemingly boundless resources 
of the country that once were, and made lavish providing 
possible, exist no longer. An elegant simplicity, enough 
and no more, neither ostentation nor profusion, mark the 
choicest entertainments of the present day. Perfect cookery, 
immaculate surroundings, and dainty service, each stamped 
with the hall mark of the individual hostess, exemplify the 
ideal to be sought for by the hostess of the new century. 

In the greater number of homes in this country, the menage 
is limited to a single servant, perhaps, with special work done 



686 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

out of the house or a woman to help on some extra occasion. 
Under these circumstances, do not attempt to entertain 
guests in a ceremonious style and manner that can be suc- 
cessfully carried out only in those homes where a corps of 
trained servants is kept. Be natural and simple ; retain your 
friends by manifesting sincere interest in their prosperity, 
and genuine concern in their adversity. You yourself may 
not have the time to mingle with the outside world as you 
would desire; but these friends, if wisely chosen, will be as 
so many lines stretching out into the world and bringing to 
your fireside the lights and shadows of human affairs, the 
events of distant lands and climes, the li\ang questions of the 
day, for thought and discussion . What more liberal education 
could one desire for her children ? 

And should you wish to emphasize your hospitality by 
some outward sign, attempt only what you can do well and 
without undue expenditure of time, money or strength. Set 
before your friends something simple, choice and well-prepared, 
that which will leave you free from anxiety concerning it. 
Cyrus, the younger, was conversant with the art of hospi- 
tality. We read how he used often to send to his friends 
viands partly eaten, and the halves of loaves, and other such 
things, desiring the bearer to say, in presenting them, '*Cyrus 
has been pleased with these, and therefore wishes you also 
to taste of them." And no one, says Xenophon, was ever be- 
loved by a greater number of persons, either Greeks or bar- 
barians. Always select those things that are appropriate to 
the occasion. If a friend drops in for five o'clock tea, do not 
make of it an opportunity to serve refreshments elaborate 
enough for a reception. There is an "eternal fitness" in the 
small affairs of life, as well as in those of the gravest impor- 
tance. Give each the thought it deserves. Entertain simply, 
but often, and so learn to excel. 

THE FORMAL DINNER 

A solemn sacrifice performed in state. — Popb. 

The hospitality expressed in the words; 



THE INVITATION 687 

" Come in the evening, or come in the morning; 
Come when you're looked for, or come without warning," 

is possible only between those people who hold to each other 
the tenderest relationship of life, and whose coming and going 
disturb in no wise the ouxward and visible revolutioh of the 
household machinery. Quite different is the case when hos- 
pitality is tendered in the form of an invitation to a formal 
dinner. In no other social function are the laws of etiquette 
so strictly to be observed. There are prescribed forms for 
everything connected with this function, and by carefully in- 
forming one's self in regard to a few rules of conduct, neither 
hostess nor guest need fear unpleasant situations; but, as 
in all things else, it is practice that makes perfect and gives 
the air of "being to the manner bom." 

THE INVITATION 

For a dinner party, as for a wedding party, and all strictly 
ceremonial occasions, the invitation is in written rather than 
in verbal form. Either a plain card of large size, or a sheet 
of heavy linen paper engraved in script, is considered in good 
taste. The names of the guests, the hour and date of the 
fimction, are filled in by hand. 

The prescribed form for both invitation and reply is 
given below: 

Invitation. 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Brown 
request the pleasure of 
Mr. and Mrs. Drake's 
company at dinner, on Thursday, 
February fifteenth, at 
eight o'clock. 
100 Beacon Street, 
Feb. I St. 

The address upon the envelope reads: 

Mrs. Wm. F. Drake, 250 Marlboro Street, 



688 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

'Reply. 

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. P. Drake 
accept with pleasure 
Mr. and Mrs. Brown's 
kind invitation to dinner on 
Thursday, February fifteenth, at 
eight o'clock. 
250 Marlboro Street, 
Feb. I St. 

Envelope addressed to Mrs. Frank J. Brown, 100 Beacon 
Street. 

If for any reason there is doubt of ability to attend the din- 
ner, substitute in reply for the words "accept with pleasure" 
the words "regret that they are unable to accept. " 

The invitation is usually sent out two weeks in advance, 
though in the height of the season, especially in large cities, 
it is sent even earlier. A reply should be sent the same day, 
or, at least, the day following the receipt of the invitation; it 
should be declined in case of inability to accept by either of the 
individuals included in the invitation. 

THE HOUR AND LENGTH OF THE DICKER 

The hour at which a formal dinner is served depends upon 
local custom; seven, seven-thirty and eight o'clock are the 
usual hours, though eight-thirty is often the hour in New York 
and Washington, and nine in London. Two hours is the 
limit of time to pass at the table; an hour and a half is pre- 
ferable. Dinners are a recreation, and every moment should 
be charged with pleasure, if the affair is to be successful. 

ANNOUNCEMENT OP DINNER 

The guests will time their arrival to allow a margin of fifteen 
minutes before the hour for dinner. When all are assembled, 
the butler or waitress draws the curtains that lead from the 
room and bows slightly to the hostess, or says, ** Dinner is 
served. " If guests are late, dinner is not announced until an 
order from the hostess is received. 






STYLES OF SERVING DINNER 689 

SEATING THE QUESTS 

Where the number of guests is large and it might be incon- 
venient to inform the gentlemen as to the ladies they are to 
escort to the table, a tray holding small addressed envelopes 
is left in a conspicuous place in the gentlemen's dressing-room, 
or is passed to the gentlemen before they enter the drawing- 
room. Each selects the envelope bearing his name and finds 
enclosed on the card within the name of the lady he is to escort 
to the table. The letter R. or L. in one comer indicates the 
side of the table on which they are to find places. At each 
cover is a plain card on which is distinctly written the name of 
the guest who is to occupy the seat. The host, with the most 
distinguished lady present, or the one in whose honor the 
dinner is given, and who is to sit at his right, leads the way to 
the dining-room; the hostess with the gentleman who is to sit 
at her right leave the drawing-room last. The host sits upon 
the side of the table farthest from the entrance, thus enabling 
the hostess to find her place without passing those who have 
preceded her. At the close of the dinner all rise and the 
ladies pass to the reception room, where coffee is served to 
them, while coffee is served in the dining-room or the library 
to the gentlemen who remain behind to smoke. After a short 
half -hour "the dinner" is ended. Guests of honor are the 
first to go, speaking a few hearty words to the host and hostess 
in appreciation of their entertainment. It is considered 
almost a duty to return an invitation to dinner in kind, no 
other form of entertainment being quite equal to this. 

STYLES OF SERVING DINNER 

There are two distinct styles of serving a dinner: English 
and Russian; a third style, called by Mrs. Henderson **the 
compromise, " emphasizes the best points of these two and is 
largely used, especially at "little dinners" and luncheons. 
The English style is that, with formalities omitted, which is 
usually seen every day at English, French and American 
tables, in families where but one or, at most, two maids are 
employed. That is, the viands are served from the table, the 



690 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

hostess serving the soup, salad and dessert, and the host carv- 
ing and serving the fish and roast. 

When a dinner is served a la Russe, the host and hostess are 
as guests at their own table, and everything is served '*froin 
the side " — that is, passed by attendants. It is needless to add 
that a dinner thus served by capable attendants passes most 
expeditiously. Empty plates and those containing individual 
portions are set down and removed from the right, but serving- 
dishes, from which one is to help himself, are presented on the 
flat of the hand, with a folded napkin between, at the left 
of each ^est. 

By the compromise plan or style, such dishes as the salad 
or dessert, which present a fine appearance and can be served 
quickly and without much effort, are served by the hostess, 
and a fish, for instance, easily separated into indiWdual por- 
tions, is disposed by the host on the plates set down before 
him, one after another, by the waitress. 

Vegetable dislies, platters holding entrees, salads or ices, 
are held, while being passed, on the hand of the waitress, with 
a folded napkin between the hand and the dish. Plates 
holding individual portions of soup, entrde, etc., bon-bon 
dishes, small dishes of olives, salted almonds and the like are 
passed on a tray. Plates should be chilled for the salad and 
ice and thoroughly warmed for the hot dishes. Platters 
holding entr(5cs, salads, etc., should not be overfilled; one- 
third of the dish should be left free even of garnish. A single 
plate of soup or other article is to be carried at a time. Upon 
removing a plate that has been used, the one for the next 
course is put in its place, and, if silver be needed, this is laid 
at the side of the plate. 

Authorities differ as to passing individual plates of soup, 
entries, etc., on the tray. If the waitress is not sufficiently 
expert to carry them steadily on the flat of the hand, the 
tray is preferable. Soup plates should be half filled. Plates 
should be removed with the left and replaced with the right 
hand. 



TABLE COVERS AND LINEN 691 

LAYING THE TABLE 
THE TABLE 

Dining tables are round, square or long and oval; the oval 
table is a novelty just now, but there is no shape of table at 
which a seat gives as attractive and comprehensive a view of 
the guests and the whole ensemble as the round. Round tops 
are made at an expense of $5.00 upwards; these are placed 
above an ordinary dining table, to secure space to seat the 
number of guests desired. The larger the table the larger the 
space that can be given up to floral decorations, as the plate 
line is the same, or nearly the same, for all tables; fifteen or 
sixteen inches is about the proper width for the *' covers, " 
dinner plates being ten inches in diameter. Table tops are 
made of pine wood and are hinged in the centre, the hinges 
being sunk into the wood ; thus they fold and occupy less space 
in storage. A round table five feet in diameter will accommo- 
date six people comfortably ; it may be used for eight. A table 
five feet square affords ample space for eight people. A 
round table seven feet in diameter seats twelve people, giving 
about twenty- five inches for each cover. 

TABLE COVERS AND LINEN 

First of all spread upon the table a soft, double-faced cotton 
material made for the purpose. This interlining protects the 
table, insures against noise in setting silver and china in place, 
and enhances the beauty of the linen. Above this is laid the 
linen cloth, laundered without folds, save one lengthwise 
exactly in the centre of the cloth. In placing the cloth upon 
the table, let this fold come exactly in the middle of the table. 
Fineness and firmness are desirable qualities in table linen. In 
purchasing, select the natural bleached linen rather than that 
with the high glaze and stiffness of artificially bleached Unen. 
Launder without starch, as a rule. Starch is not required 
save in well-worn linen. Round cloths for round tables are 
no longer in demand. None but an expert laundress could 
iron these to hang properly. The cloths for tables five feet 
in diameter, round or square, are woven with a handsomely 



692 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

designed centrepiece that extends to the plate line and some- 
times to the edge of the table. The border of a ver\' hand- 
some cloth seen recently had a design of field daisies, the 
long, straight stems of which began at the selvedge and ended 
with the blossom, at graduated length, just below the edge of 
the table. The pattern of another was of tulips and foliage, 
and so perfectly had it been laundered that each tulip seemed 
lifted up from the surface of the cloth. Or the damask may 
be woven to fit the table top and finished with a deep border 
of heavy hand-made lace, with an interlining of silk. An all- 
lace ** cloth" over silk, of a shade that harmonizes with the 
general color scheme, is admissible, but the damask seems 
quite as appropriate for the serious business of dining. 

Centrepieces are made in shapes to fit the table — round, 
oval, square or oblong. These are of embroidered linen, 
drawn-work or lace ; the two latter are often used over silk. 
In size, these centrepieces are small, a little larger than the 
table mirror, which often rests upon them, or they extend to 
the plate line. The English "runner" is just now in vogue 
for long tables ; this often occupies all the space to the covers. 
The centre is of lace or embroidery and the edge affords space 
for low vases of flowers and candlesticks, which are disposed 
alternately in and out the entire length on each side. 

The napkin, or serviettes, as our English friends would say, 
should be large and of the same pattern as the cloth. In 
laundering these, fold in halves lengthwise, then fold again 
lengthwise, having the side with the selvedge edge upward; 
then fold over in the middle and one end back to the central 
fold ; turn the napkin over and fold the other end to the central 
fold. (The napkin can be opened accordion fashion.) Place 
the napkins on the service plate, or at the left of the forks, 
or, when the plate holds oysters or canape, fold by hand in 
the middle and place above the plate. If cards be used to 
seat the guests, these should be placed upon the napkin. At 
dinner a roll, a piece of bread two by three inches, or three 
bread sticks tied together, are often placed, in sight, within the 
folds of the napkin. At luncheon any of these with a ball or 
neatly shaped piece of butter is placed on a bread-aad-but- 



DINNER TABLE. FIRST COURSE. (See pages 651 anrl A03 ) 



LUNCHEON TABLE, SEkVEU FROM THE SIDE. (Sec Page ?oo.) 



THE COVER 693 

ter plate with a butter spreader, a little to the right and above 
the plate. Butter not being served at dinner or at very for- 
mal luncheons, this plate does not then appear. Sometimes, 
at luncheons the individual butter plate is used, when the 
little plate would crowd the cover, as when wine glasses take 
up the space. 

THE COVER 

At the place of each individual, the plate and serviette, with 
such knives, forks, spoons, glasses, etc., as are needed for that 
particular meal, make up what is called *' the cover. " Twenty 
inches of space is the least that should be allowed for each 
cover; twenty-five or thirty are better, and less than thirty 
inches would not do on a formal occasion. On formal occa- 
sions, a richly decorated dinner plate — about ten inches in 
diameter — is set at each cover, one inch from the table's 
edge, when the table is laid. The oyster and soup plates are 
placed, in turn, upon this, and, later, it is exchanged for the 
plate upon which the first hot course, after the soup, is served. 
When there are plenty of maids, thus avoiding drawing out 
the meal to an unseemly length, it is considered au fait to have 
a plate in the centre of each cover continuously, until the 
clearing of the table for dessert. 

At the right of the service plate, dispose as many knives as 
will be required before the dessert, each with cutting edge 
towards the plate. At the right of the knives, lay the soup 
spoon with the inside of the bowl upward; beyond this the 
fork for oysters and other hors d'oeuvre; so that, beginning 
with the oyster fork, the utensils on the right of the service 
plate be laid in the order of use. Beginning at the extreme 
left of the service plate, arrange the forks in the order of use, 
having the last used close to the plate. The tines should be 
turned up. 

When the number of courses is such that but two or three 
knives and forks are required, the dessert fork may be placed 
upon the table with the other forks and nearest the plate, 
with the dessert spoon above the plate. 

Spoons or forks for punch and spoons for after-dinner coffee 



694 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

are best laid by the plate or saucer at the time of serving. 
Indeed, the table can be cleared more neatly for the dessen 
if all the silver for dessert be put in place when needed. 

At the upper right hand of the service plate, at the tips of 
the knives, set the glass for water. This holds when wine is 
not served. When the dinner includes wine, the glass for 
water stands nearly in front of the plate and the first wine 
glass to be used is placed at the points of the knives; the other 
wine glasses are disposed in one or two half-circles, in the order 
of use, between this and the water glass. When but one w^ine 
is served at dinner, a choice is made of claret, sherry or cham- 
pagne. When several wines are served, sauteme (in a tall 
colored glass) is poured for the oysters and the glasses are re- 
filled when the fish has been served. Sherry is served with the 
soup, champagne with the roast, and Burgundy or claret 
with the game. Occasionally champagne is served with the 
game, and claret with the roast. The glasses are filled after 
the serving of the course. 

TABLE DECORATION 

The linen, service plates, and individual silver — ^glass being 
put in place last of all to avoid breakage — being systemat- 
ically and regularly disposed upon the table, the china with 
decorations in natural position, the floral decorations may be 
completed. Time was when fruit was thought to be a notable 
feature in table decorations ; but, at the present time — save at 
Thanksgiving or harvest spreads — fruit, except, perhaps, a 
basket of choice strawbenies, or cherries with blossoms and 
leaves, seem no longer admissible for this purpose. But one 
or two varieties of blossoms are used at a time. Arrange 
these so as to retain the beauty of each individual blossom. 

The decorations need be low or very high so as not to ob- 
struct the view across the table. Sometimes blossoms are 
massed together to form a centrepiece, as when a bowl is 
filled with a mass of sweet peas; but the delicacy that is se- 
cured by the careful arrangement of a few blossoms or ferns 
is always in good taste. A table less than five feet in diameter 
affords space for no other decoration than a tall slender vase, 



LIGHTING THE TABLE 695 

or a small fern holder, filled with flowers or ferns. A space 
thirty inches in diameter may be taken for the decoration 
of a five-foot round table, if the meal be served from the side 
and place be given on the side table for olives, salted nuts 
bon-bons, etc. In this case the lighting must be from above, 
or space be found in the decorations to set the candelabra or 
candlesticks. Goldenrod, field daisies, and similar wild flowers 
should appear but once, and then when freshly gathered; 
these are more suitable for a hall or reception room than for the 
dining-room. In the early spring, tulips, primroses, crocuses 
or valley lilies, growing in low wide pots set in jardinieres, 
made for the purpose of green and cream-colored ware, make 
pleasing decorations for a large round table. Narcissus, with 
foliage, combined with maiden hair or other delicate ferns, 
the latter spreading out in a very high crystal or green-and- 
gold vase, make a particularly beautiful table decoration. 
Yellow flowers and also violets need be used in the daylight. 
White and green make a delicate combination, but a touch of 
color is needed to give warmth or "tone, " unless the time of 
the function be mid-summer. The "Art Japanese" style of 
decoration is much affected by art students. Branches or 
single stems of flowers in small vases are placed here and 
there upon the table. Some blossoms are better adapted 
than others to this style of decoration. Branches of pussy- 
willow, catkins, japonica, peach, apple and cherry blossoms, 
holly and mistletoe are thus used successfully. 

The pretty Japanese custom of dropping a flower or flower 
petals in the finger-bowls has also obtained in this country. 
The flower chosen usually corresponds with those used in the 
decoration ; rose petals and violets are particularly attractive 
for this use. A water lily in each bowl is sometimes seen; 
when such lilies have been used as a centrepiece, nothing is 
more dainty for a summer breakfast party. 

LIGHTING THE TABLE 

Candles in stem candlesticks or in a candelabra are thought 
to give the most perfect light for a dinner table. If candles 
be used, there should be enough to light the room properly 



696 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

without the aid of gas or electric light, else the effect is lost. 
The newer candlesticks are fitted with a porcelain candle, — 
in color to suit one's fancy — that holds the wax or parafi&ne 
candle. Below is a spiral spring that pushes up the real 
candle as it burns. Candles in these candlesticks require 
little attention and by their use the lighting of a room with 
candles is simplified. Care needs be taken to place the candle- 
sticks where they will not obstruct the view of any of the 
guests. 

OTHER DECORATIONS THAN FLOWERS 

If one has choice bon-bon dishes that will add to the appear- 
ance of the table, they may be placed upon the table, at equal 
distances from each other, and the larger decorative pieces, 
as lamps and flowers, in vases. At the present time, however, 
it is customary to place all dishes of salted nuts, bon-bons, 
olives, etc., upon the sideboard. Here also, or upon a side 
table^ should be disposed the finger-bowls, plates needed for 
any course not iced or hot, plates of bread or rolls, cracked ice, 
carafes of water, decanters and cutlery. The waiters should 
note when bread and water is needed, and supply such need 
after the serving of a course, as fish or game. 

China, silver and cut glass are, in themselves, highly deco- 
rative. Then the viands, though they may not appear on 
the table, if daintily set up and garnished, enhance the 
festive aspect of a function. The simplest garnishes are 
the best ; parsley or cress, light and dark green lettuce leaves 
cut in narrow ribbons, or Nasturtium blossoms and leaves, 
for savory dishes, are among the simple and inexpensive gar- 
nishes that are always to be had. In summer, young grape, 
strawberry or currant leaves provide an appropriate setting 
for fruit and berries, and, when all else fails, diamonds of 
toast and slices of lemon, cooked eggs or beets may be brought 
into requisition. Dish papers, cut from unprinted news- 
paper, to cover two-thirds of the serving-dish, the edges 
neatly cut in fringe, are in demand for many savory dishes 
served without the intervention of a border, or unadorned 



ORDER OF SERVICE 697 

with a garnish ; lace papers are for sweet dishes and fringed 
linen doilies for bread and rolls. 

DETAIL OF SERVICE A LA RUSSE 

The oysters are in place when the guests are seated. When 
this course is finished, the oyster plate is removed and 
the service plate left in place. The soup plate is set upon 
this and, when this is removed, the service plate still is 
left and is used for olives, etc., being removed, with the 
left hand, when the fish plate is set down from the right 
with the right hand. When the fish plate is removed, the 
plate, with the entr6e neatly disposed upon it, replaces it. 
The plate for the roast displaces that on which the entrfe 
was served and is, in turn, displaced by the plate holding 
the glass of Roman punch and so on. In this manner a 
plate is always before the guest, until the table is cleared 
for the dessert. Then, the table being freed of condiments, 
relishes and stray crumbs, set down plates for the dessert, 
or plates holding individual portions of the dessert from 
the right. In order remove these from the right with 
the left hand, and set in place, with the right hand, the 
finger-bowls on doily-covered plates. Let the bowls be 
filled one-third with warm water. The finger-bowls are 
set on the doilies upon the table; and the plates are used 
for bon-bons, which are now passed ; after which the ladies 
retire. Coffee and liqueur in tiny glasses are served to the 
gentlemen in the dining-room, and coffee and green mint 
with fine ice, or, sometimes, maraschino, to the ladies, in the 
reception-room. Spoons are passed with the mint. 

ORDER OF SERVICE 

In serving dinner, the maids, if there be two, begin at 
opposite ends of the table and serve first, the one, the lady 
on the right of the host, and the other, the gentleman on 
the right of the hostess, and so on, in order, until all have 
been served. In the next course, the lady and gentlemen 
on the left of the host and hostess, respectively, are served 
first, and thus in regular order. If there be but one waitress. 



698 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

she begins first at the right, then at the left of the host; 
the right and then the left of the hostess, thus each time 
coming last to the host or the hostess. 

THE DINNER MENU 

When we read such books as *' Culinary Jottings," by 
Wyvem, and " Food and Feeding," by Sir Henry Thompson, 
we are forced to acknowledge that men have probably given 
greater attention and wider research to the scientific aspect 
of culinary affairs and to the minutiae of the menu, regard- 
ing taste as the point of view, than have women. With 
what fond solicitude have Haywood, Savarin and Thompson 
discussed the relative position of the various courses in the 
menu. With them no details relative to cooking or eating 
have been thought trivial or beneath notice. 

Wyvem says: "After years of observation I have come 
to the conclusion, if you want to put nice little dinners 
upon your table, you must not only be prepared to take 
an infinite amount of trouble, but you must make a friend 
of your chef." Here are two points which it were well for 
those who demand "elaborate menus for a dinner "to con- 
sider carefully. You cannot get up even nice "little din- 
ners" successfully without being willing "to take an in- 
finite amount of pains," and then to cultivate the best of 
feelings — a spirit of comradeship, as it were — with the 
man or maid who is to carry out the details of the meal. 
It is in the nice execution of the simplest details that the 
artist is discovered, in culinary matters, as it is in those of 
more ambitious efforts. 

As a simple illustration, for instance, of the careful at- 
tention that must be given to little matters of details, where 
a phenomenal success in serving is sought for, we are told 
that at the Touraine (Boston), where the President was 
entertained on a recent visit, even the butter served to 
the guests bore the stamp of the American flag. 

The following may be called a representative menu for 
a formal dinner party in early April : 



REPRESENTATIVE MENU 699 

REPRESENTATIVE MENU 

1ST Course: Oysters. (Lemon Slices, Brown or Rye Bread Sand- 
wiches.) 

2ND Course: Consomme a la Royal. 

3RD Course: Brook Trout, Broiled Maitre d'Hotel Butter. (Cucum- 
bers.) 

4TH Course: Sweetbread Croquettes, Mushroom Sauce. 

5TH Course: Saddle of Lamb, Stringless Beans. (Banana Frit- 
ters.) 

6th Course: Roman Punch. 

7TH Course : Spring Chickens, Broiled, Lettuce Salad. 

8th Course: Strawberry Bombe Glac6, Lady Fingers. 

9TH Course: Bon-bons. 

loTH Course: Coffee. 

This menu might be lengthened (the larger the number 
of "covers" the larger the number of courses required) 
by adding a second soup, preferably a cream soup, as a choice, 
a second entree after the fish (as cutlets of beef forcemeat, 
tomato pur^e). A third after the saddle, which, in April, 
might be a dish of asparagus with a choice sauce, a hot 
pudding, as a custard souffle, or a cold sweet, as a wine 
jelly, or a macedoine of fruits, before the ice, and tiny in- 
dividual cheese souffles, or some other savory tid-bit, if a 
soufH^ has appeared before, as the bonne houche, before the 
coffee. Liqueurs are served after the coffee in the tiniest 
of glasses. 

 The color of the meats and the sauces in the different 
courses should vary, as a dark meat with a dark sauce should 
be followed by a light meat with a light sauce. For a large 
entertainment, two soups are provided; a clear soup and 
thickened one. Potatoes and a sauce are served with a 
boiled or fried fish ; cucumber salad is provided, when the 
fish is broiled or cooked in a fancy manner. Entrees are so 
prepared as to be served without carving; if two be presented 
the first is the lighter or less substantial in character. Roasts 
include saddles of mutton, lamb or venison, beef or mutton 
tenderloins, turkey, capon, goose or duck. One or, at most, 
two vegetables accompany the roast. Cold meats, as aspics 



700 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

or chaudfroids, may be served after the game with salad; 
in this case salad is not passed with the game. 

"LITTLE DINNERS" 

Grand, formal dinners, where eight or ten elaborate courses 
are served to from ten to eighteen people and by no less 
than three attendants, besides a cook, can be satisfactorily 
carried out only by people of wealth; but "little dinners" 
of eight covers, though six is preferable, may be served by 
a cook and one waitress to the perfect satisfaction of all 
concerned. Less formality is observed at such dinners, 
but the service needs be perfect, and this is only secured 
by practice. The menu for a dinner of this character would 
be made up practically as follows: Clear soup, fish, roast 
with one vegetable, game or hot cheese dish with salad, 
an ice, wafers, coffee. The little dinner may be elaborated 
by the addition of oysters before the soup, or an entree 
after the fish or the roast, or after both. 

FORMAL BREAKFASTS OR LUNCHEONS 

Breakfast and luncheon parties are much alike. The 
points of difference are easily distinguished. Gentlemen 
are invited with ladies to breakfast. Fruit alwavs forms 
the first course; coffee is served, at pleasure, throughout 
the meal, or at the close; eggs appear in some form, usually 
as an entree or at the close as a sweet omelet ; ices and cake, 
except at a wedding breakfast, are not considered indispens- 
able and are rarely served ; lastly, the hour is not later than 
half past twelve. A centrepiece of ferns, a choice, growing 
plant, or cut flowers, are appropriate. If cut flowers be 
used, the arrangement should be simple; elaborate effects 
in all particulars are out of place. If the breakfast be in- 
tended for a rather formal function, serve the coffee at the 
close. The method of serving is the same for both break- 
fast and luncheon parties, and differs but little from that 
of a dinner party. The table is laid in the same manner, 
except that, at luncheon, the polished table may be bare, 
save for a luncheon cloth or a centrepiece and doilies. For 



THE HOUR OF THE HOME DINNER 701 

a luncheon, the napkins are usually quite small and fringed. 
The doilies are made in three sets, twelve, eight and four 
inches, respectively, in diameter, for service plate, bread- 
and-butter plate, and water glass. As the doilies for the 
service plate provides space for but a single knife and fork, 
other small pieces of silver are put in place as needed. For 
a simple luncheon with near friends as guests, fringed nap- 
kins of small size, perfectly laundered, spread for the ser- 
vice plate, give a happy change from the ordinary table 
cloth. 

At luncheon, the bouillon cup supplants the soup plate 
and the bouillon spoon the table or soup spoon. At a very 
formal dinner in an Eastern city last winter, consommd was 
served as a first course in bouillon cups, and bouillon spoons 
were beside the plate, but the hostess drank her soup from 
the cup, every one soon following suit. Gentlemen seemed 
to like the innovation, the soup not being garnished, but the 
procedure, though quite the proper thing at a supper served 
**en buffet," seems not quite in harmony with the appoint- 
ments of an elegant dinner. Roasts are reserved for dinner, 
and chops, chicken jointed or in individual pieces, small fillets 
of beef tenderloin, etc., with a vegetable, do duty as the piece 
de resistance of the meal. Before the birds and salad, a cup 
of chocolate with whipped cream, or a sherbet or frozen punch 
is often served, though the chocolate seems a little incon- 
gruous at this point in a luncheon. Birds are often supplanted 
by a salad in aspic. 

THE HOME DINNER 

''It seems dinners are but innovations, whilst breakfasts and sup- 
perss are men's most ancient and natural meals." 

"Laughter is one of the greatest helps to digestion with which I 
am acquainted, and the custom prevalent among our forefathers of 
exciting it at table by jesters and buffoons was founded upon true 
medical principles." — Hufeland. 

"Food well chatted is half digested." 

THE HOUR OF THE HOME DINNER 

FullcF, in speaking of the ravens that brought Elijah bread 



702 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and flesh in the morning and evening, draws the conclusion 
given at the head of this topic. In the main, this idea that 
dinner, or a mid-day meal, is an innovation accords with all 
history. Historians agree that the fact of the preparation of 
but a single meal in a day is one of the chief marks of dis- 
tinction between savage and civilized races. The single meal 
of the savage is prepared toward the close of the day, after 
food has been secured from the streams, or as trophies of the 
chase. The world's events move in circles, and the innova- 
tion of a mid-day meal is surely disappearing in favor of the 
ancient custom of dinner after the work of the day has been 
accomplished. 

In this custom there are advantages and disadvantages. 
If the family consist of growing children, a substantial mid- 
day meal becomes quite necessary for them. Throughout 
the whole period of school life, the growth of the body is going 
on, -the individual organs are increasing in size, and the en- 
tire framework is being constantly enlarged and strengthened. 
To meet this growth, there must be an abundant allowance 
of food — and food of the proper kind — to furnish new tissue 
(proteid) and to supply force and activity (carbohydrates). 
Then, too, monotony in diet, which is really less common 
from economic reasons than from carelessness or failure to un- 
dei"stand the importance of the subject, must be avoided. 

During the period of youth the foundations of future health 
or disease are laid; and, while more pains needs be taken in 
the case of children of feeble constitution by inheritance, a 
matter of such vital importance to all children needs be under 
the direct and constant supervision of a thoughtful mother. 
Adults digest and assimilate slowly, and, as only light mental 
or physical work should be undertaken after the ingestion of 
hearty food, a mid-day meal for them is not to be considered. 
In actual practice, the preparation of two dinners in one day 
is not the troublesome matter that it appears at first sight, 
for the number of meals is not increased, and in families where 
two or three maids are kept and the heaviest work of the day 
has been completed, their dinner may be prepared with that of 
the children. If there be but one or two children, it is a simple 



r 



SERVING THE HOME DINNER 703 

• 

matter to broil chops or a bit of steak or fish, which with a 
baked potato may furnish the piece de resistance of many a 
dinner, leaving soup for the meal at night. 

At night, there can be no excuse for an indifferently pre- 
pared meal; everything can be made ready in the early part 
of the day and the final cooking and serving be completed 
without the rush and hurry incident when other work is going 
on. At least two dishes, as the soup and the dessert, should 
be suitable for children of school age, who should appear at 
dinner and be encouraged to add their mite to the pleasure of 
the occasion. If we cannot have music and dancing, "jesters 
and buffoons," to beguile us while we eat, let the brightness 
of the day that has come to us, the lively sayings that we 
hear, cheer the hours of the meal time, and, lest we miss some 
good thing that will bear repeating, let us cultivate the habit 
of looking for brightness everywhere. The dinner being the 
formal meal of the day, plan to keep in reserve something 
to make both the menu and table attractive ; holly and ever- 
green at Christmas, a pot of crocuses, primroses, tulips or 
jonquils in the late winter, a potted fern in a jardiniere, a 
root of partridge vine with berries and a few green things from 
the woods, growing in moist earth under glass in the late 
autumn, are attainable by many. In late spring and summer 
the children will find, in their daily rambles, enough delicate 
wild flowers or foliage to insure a pleasing and varied centre- 
piece. The influence of these little things is often more far- 
reaching than we imagine. Who could serve "soggy" po- 
tatoes or a burned and smoky steak, or what child would far 
overstep the limits of decorum without compunctions of re- 
morse, or, at least, a sense of incongruity, at a table adorned 
with a pot of crocuses, tulips, or jonquils. 

SERVING THE HOME DINNER 
THE MENU 

The regulation home dinner should consist of soup, a sub- 
stantial dish, as meat, poultry or fish, one or two vegetables, 
a salad, a sweet and coffee. A carefully prepared entree after 



704 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the piece de resistance adds to the variety and stj'le of the 
meal. If this be fashioned of some "left-over/' which even 
careful management cannot entirely eliminate, it tends to 
diminish the quantity of the main dish of the meal — and 
usually the most expensive article in the menu. The style 
of serving the home dinner must of necessity depend largely 
upon the style of living. When the mother is assisted by 
only one maid, steps need be considered, and serving from the 
side is evidently quite out of the question, even if the maid 
be able to carve. 

The soup in Soup plate may be brought in on the service 
plate just before the family are seated. This obviates the use 
of a second service or change plate, a necessity when any one 
save an expert passes soup in the dining-room. While the 
soup is being eaten, the maid dishes the roast and vegetables 
and brings in the roast, the table having been laid with a 
carving cloth and cutlery. She retired with two soup plates 
and brings in from the warming oven the required ntunber 
of dinner plates, which she sets down directly in front or at 
the left of the server, then she removes to a side table the rest 
of the soup plates, two at a time. Plates in a pile are 
sidered a breach of perfect table service, and is a con4 
to existing circumstances. jj 

When the maid waits upon the table five days in the 
a routine suitable to that particular family can be 
mastered by both family and maid, to the end that each si 
know what is to be expected. 

While the meat is being carved and passed to the older 
members of the family, the maid brings in two vegetables on a 
tray, a tablespoon in each, and passes the tray to the left of 
each individual. She now sets the tray on the side table and. 
when the meat for the children is cut, places the vegetables 
allowed them on the plates, cuts the meat in small bits and 
sets them before the children. Where the maid cannot carry 
or hold the plate safely on the flat of the hand, with a folded 
napkin between, it should be carried on a tray. This coarse 
finished, the plates are removed, two at a time, to a side table, 
where, when opportunity offers, the silver is noiselessly col- 




SERVING THE HOME DINNER 705 

lected on a tray and the plates are pikd to be taken to the 
kitchen. The salad, kept until this time in a cool place, is now 
placed before the mistress, the plates as before, the dalad 
spoon on the right, the fork on the left; the filled plates are set 
down before those at table from the right, and later on re- 
moved, one at a time, from the right to the side table. Re- 
move the salad dish, pepper, salt, etc., on a tray, brush the 
crumbs, and set the dessert before the mistress (this, if not an 
ice, or a dish served hot or chilled, mAy h^ve been standing 
on the sideboard), put the plates in place, as also a spoon for 
serving. Set the prepared plates down from the right, pass 
sauce or sugar and cream on a tray to the left. Then bring 
in the coffee, made after the serving of the salad, on a tray 
with cups and saucers. Set the coffee service before the 
mistress from the right, and pass the cups of coffee, then th6 
sugar and cream on a small tray, if these are served, or if the 
mother does not add them. If finger-bowls be used, set these 
in place, from the right, one-third filled with tepid water and 
st^hding on a plate with a doily between; pass bon-bons, 
fill the glasses, and retire. On occasion, the dessert platiss 
might be removed before passing coffee and finger-bowls, but 
generally, with dishes to wash and her own dinner to get 
ready, this will not be required. Finger-bowls With children 
at table are a necessity rather than a luxury. 

With more maids, the nearer the approach may be to the 
service of the formal dinner. 

As the Thursday night dinner and the Sunday night tea 
are often prepared and served without the assistance of a 
maid, everjrthing should be in readiness beforehand and 
a menu selected that will admit of as many dishes as possible 
being placed either on the table, or on a side table* before 
the family is called. Then, if one of the family qiiietly re- 
moves the meat course with its attendant dishes, brushes 
ahd crumbs, after the salad has been considered, attends 
to the passing of the dessert, brings in boiling water and sets 
the coffee, tea or cocoa service in place, the meal may be 
daintily served to the satisfaction of all. The making of 
the beverage, or cooking of an article upon the chafing 



7o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

dish, will give variety and add a charm to the meal that 
will amply compensate for lo^s in some other features of the 
service. ." 

TEAS 

I can hit on no novelty, — none, on my life, 
Unless peradyenture you'd tea with your wife. 

— Ingoldsby Lbgbnds. 

"Let steaming kettle sing, 
Then pretty caddy bring, 
And teapot from J apan . " 

In America a cup of tea is not; the universal and every- 
day occurrence that it is in England and her dependencies. 
Originally, perhaps, cliniale had something to do with the 
introduction' of this custom abroad. Then, too, the late- 
ness of the foreign dinner 'hour made the habit almost a 
necessity. But now we, whp are inclined to copy what 
we like, whei;ever it rtiay be found, have taken this pleasing 
and informal form of hospitality for our own, and the five 
o'clock tea-table has beconie.a familiar object in our homes. 
Moreover, in addition to the delightful custom of offering 
a cup of tea to the chance caller of the late afternoon, we 
have instituted all sorts of "teas." 

There are private and public teas, church and club teas, 
to introduce a debutante or welcome a guest of distinction. 
Then there aris teas that take the form of an "at home" 
given on some particular and uniform day of each week of 
the month or season. 

For all these, except the informal five o'clock function, 
which can hardly be classed a "function," invitations in 
some form are extended. When the tea takes the form of 
an "at home," a plain visiting card, with the receiving day 
engraved at the lower left-hand comer, is sent to friends 
and acquaintances and also to strangers whose acquaint- 
ance is desired.. WheiT possible, besides the card of invita- 
tion, a verbal invitation is also given, in the case of strangers, 
and takes the place sometimes of the card. The cards show 
that the teas are for Tuesdays, during the season, the month 



SERVING THE HOME TABLE 707 

of January, and for one Tuesday in January, respectively. 
The address may be added at discretion. 

Mrs. James B Mrs. James B 



Tuesdays. Tuesdays in January. 

Mrs. James B 

Tuesday, January Fifth. 

For the five o'clock tea as an every-day occurrence, or 
as given on some special day each week of the season, no 
formal display is made. It is simply a social hour snatched 
from a busy day, but the service needs be dainty and im- 
maculate. The sandwiches are ethereal affairs, and the tea 
a choice brand. Polished silver and egg-shell china are 
needful accessories. The butler, maid, or a member of the 
family, according to circumstances, separates the nest of 
tea tables, and places all but the outer one about the recep- 
tion room, where they will best accommodate the guests. 
Upon these a plate of sandwiches or wafers may be placed, 
or they furnish a convenient receptacle for a cup or plate. 
The largest table is placed before the hostess. Upon this 
a tray holding the tea service is set. Hot water is brought 
on in the tea-kettle, which, over the spirit lamp, soon reaches 
the boiling point, and tea is made. The tea-ball, or the 
newer teaspoon, on the same principle as the ball, is a con- 
venience, where a single cup of tea is to be poured at a time; 
but, when several cups are to be served at once, the tea-pot, 
with its heat-confining cosy, is called into requisition. Sweets 
are occasionally served; but " good form,*' as well as hygienic 
considerations connected with the nearness of the dinner 
hour, restrict the refection to dry biscuit or wafer-like sand- 
wiches. In absence of more than one assistant, guests wait 
on themselves and each other, the maid attending to the 
supply of hot water and removing the cups. 

When cards are sent out to one's entire list of acquaint- 
ances for some special day, as Tuesday, Junary 5, the tea 
loses its home character and becomes a reception. Potted 
plants and cut flowers are in profusion, when means admit; 
daylight is excluded, and a table in the dining-room is made 



7o8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

attractive with floWers, lights (preferably candles), beautiful 
china, silver and glass. An orchestra of stringed instru- 
ments, screened from view and rendering selections that 
are but little more than audible, stimulate conversation, 
and give the finishing touch to a bright and charming form 
of entertainment. The menu for such an occasion includes 
tea, cocoa, bouillon, sandwiches, salads, ices, cakes, and 
bon-bons. The guests enter the room without invitation. 
Waiters are in attendance, who serve or assist in serving 
the Various kinds of dainties. 

When cards are sent out for a series of teas, as for "Tues- 
days in January,*' the affair is rather more formal than 
the "five o'clock," but much less formal than the reception. 
Music is dispensed with, unless it be vocal, or a few selec- 
tions on the piano, toward the close of the entertainment. 
The refreshments are served in the dining-room from a 
prettily decorated table. The tea-service and the service 
for cocoa, presided over by friends of the hostess, occupy 
two sides of the table respectively. Guests enter the room 
without invitation, and are served with tea or cocoa, help- 
ing themselves to sandwiches, cakes, and bonbons, with 
which the table is kept supplied. A maid takes the soiled 
cupSi and sometimes a second maid brings in glasses of 
frapp^ or sherbet. Church, club and other teas are copies 
or modifications of one of these three general styles of "tea." 



CHAPTER VII 

Menus for Occasions 

THANKSGIVING DINNER 

We yield Thee unfeigned thanks and praise, as for all thy mercies, so 
especially for the returns of seed-time and harvest, and for crowning 
the year with thy goodness in the increase of the ground, and the 
gathering in of the fruits thereof. — Book of Common Prayer. 

MENU 

CoMsomm^ k la Royal, Celery. 
Roast Turkey. 
Garnish: Sausage Cakes and Italian Chestnuts. 
Escalloped Oysters. 
Mashed Potatoes, Sweet Potato and Almond Croquettes, 
Sweet Pickled Peaches, Gooseberry Jelley. 
Cauliflower, Hollandaise Sauce. 
Cranberry Frapp6. 
Chicken Salad, French Style. 
Ginger Ice Cream. Hot Apple Pie. 
Neufchatel Cheese, Crackers. 
Black Coffee. 

THANKSGIVING DINNER. (COLONIAL STYLE) 

"Some hae meat and canna eat, 

And some hae nane who want it, 
But we hae meat and we can eat 
And sae the Lord be thankit." 

MENU 

Clam Chowder, Pickles. 
Wild Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts. 
Roast Spare Rib (Pork.) Pumpkin Sauce. 

Succotash. Mashed Turnips. Onions. 

709 



7IO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mashed Potatoes. Cold Slaw. 

Boston Brown Bread. Rye Bread. 

Pumpkin Pie, Apple Pie, Cheese. Thanksgiving Pudding. 

Fruit. Cider Cup. 

CHRISTMAS DINNER 

Heap on more wood ! the wind is chiU; 

But let it whistle as it will, 

We'll keep our Christmas merry still. 

— Sir Walter Scott. 
* MENU 

Consomm6 with Chestnut Timbales and Turnip Balls. 

Fillets of Flounder, with Blanched Oysters, 

Hollandaise Sauce. Potato Balls. Hot House Cucumbers. 

Young Goose Roasted. 

Chantilly Apple Sauce with Horseradish. 

Celery, with Brown Sauce.', 

Tomato Punch. 

Roast Duck. 

Orange-and-Endive Salad. 

Plum Pudding, Brandy Sauce. Mince Pie. 

Carmel Ice Cream. 
Black Coffee. Cheese Bouchers. 

COLONIAL TEA 

Colonial colors, buff and blue, or National colors, red, white and blue. 

Blue china, with yellow daffodils. 

or 
Red and white tulips in a blue bowl. 

Oysters. 

(Scalloped or Creamed in cases or shells.) 

Cold Turkey, Cranberrry Sauce. 

Celery-and- Hickory Nut Salad. 

Boston Baked Beans Salad, Garnish: 

Tomato Jelly and Celery. 

Individual Pumpkin Pies. 

Blueberry Sherbet (canned berries). 

Maple Sugar Bon-bons. 

Pop Com Balls. 

Salted Peanuts. 






CHRISTMAS DIMNER TABLE FOR CHILDREN, LAST COURSE. 



CHRISTMAS DINNER TABLE WITH WREATHS, ETC. 



MENUS FOR OCCASIONS 711 



LAWN P£TB 

Floral Decorations: — Pink Sweet Peas and Mignonette. 

Shrimp-and-Cucumber Salad. 

Assorted Sandwiches. Rolls. 

Pineapple-and- Peach Salad, Pineapple Shell, 

Pistachio nuts as garnish. 

Mignonette Parfait. 

Iced Tea. 

EASTER DINNER. (YELLOW COLOR SCHEME) 

"Daffodils, 
That come before the swallow dares, and takes 
The winds of March with beauty." 

MENU 

Cream of Spinach. Clear Green Turtle Soup, 

Pim-Olas. 
Brook Trout, Fried, Sauce Tartare. Rye Bread-and-Butter 

Sandwiches. 

Potato Croquettes (Egg-shaped) , Peas in Cream Sauce in Centre. 

Asparagus in Puff-paste Patties, Egg Yolks. 

Crown of Lamb, Mint Sauce. 

Bernhardt Potatoes. Banana Fritters, Orange Sauce. 

Broiled Squabs or Stall-fed Quail. 
Lettuce and Tomato, Sifted Yolk of Egg. 

French Dressing. 

Cream Cheese, Bar-le-Duc Currants (white). 

Pineapple-and-Orange Sherbet, Egg Shapes in Spim 

Sugar Nuts. 

Assorted Cakes. 

Candied Mint Leaves. Candied Orange Peel, 

Black Coffee. 

LENTEN LUNCHEON 

Floral Decorations: — Valley Lilies and Violets. 

MENU 

Oyster Cocktails, Sprinkled with Chopped Parsley. 

Cream of Spinach. 
Broiled Baltimore Shad, Roe Sauce. 



7ia PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

LENTEN LUNCHEON— CONTINUED 

French Fried Pptatoes, Cucuipbers. 

Lobster Mayonnaise in Casseroles. 

Garnish: Figures cut from Poached white of egg. 

Cheese Straws, Olives. 

Black Coffee. 

WEDDINQ BREAKFAST. (JUNE) 

She's beautiftil, and therefore to be wooed; 
She is a woman, therefore to be won. 

— King Henry VI. 

Down on your knees, 
And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love. 

— As You Like It. 

Floral Decorations: — White Sweet Peas and Maiden Hair Fems. 

MENy 

Strawberries, au naiurel. 

Halibut Palmettes. Hot House Cucumbers. 

Peas in White Sauce. Rolls. 

Baked Fillets of Chicken-breast, Mushroom Sauce. 

Lettuce-and- Asparagus Tip Salad, 

Iced Mayonnaise. 
Fruit Ices in Spun Sugar Nests. 
Assorted Cakes. Bon-bons. 
Coffee. 



INDEX 



Acid, Acetic, 387 

Citric, 387. 

Lactic, 387. 

Muriatic, 387. 

Phosphate, 387. 
Africans or Othellos, 436. 
Air, Incorporated, Expansion of 

386. 
Albumen, Cookery of, 7 
Albuminoids, 4-5. 
Almond Milk for Curries, etc, 34. 
Almond Wafers, 450. 
Almonds, etc., Blanching of, 33. 

Chopped, 33. 

Salted, 576-7. 

Shredded and Pounded, 34. 
Anchovy Croustades, 386. 

Pur6e, 367. 
Anchovies, Plain, joi. 

Preparing for XJse, 35. 

Stuffed, 102. 
Apple Cake, German, 43^. 

Charlotte, 570. 

Croquettes, 571. 

And Cress Salad, 3157. 

Fritters, 542. 

Telly. 580. 
Larmalade, 588. 

Pies, 477-478. 

Sauce, 566-567. 

Tapioca Puddmg, 536. 
Apples a la Manhattan, 570. 

Baked with Almonds, 567. 

Blushing with Orange Sauce, 

567- 
Blushing Creole Style, 568. 

Duchess Style, 566. 

Fancy Baked, 569. 

Jellied, 569-570. 

In Syrup, 567. 

To Serve, 560. 

With Rice, 568. 



Mj 



Apricots, Frozen, 616. 
Asparagus, Baked with Cheese, 

307- 
Boiled, Mousseline Sauce, 

308. 
en Branches, 307. 
Cookery of, etc., 306. 
k la Indienne, 346. 
Patties, 308. 
Spanish Style, 308. 
Aspic Jelly, 217, 273, 374, 375. 

B 

Baba with Fruit, 430. 
Bacon, 160. 

B^g and Tubes, P^try or Forc- 
ing, 32. 
Baking Powder and Formula for, 

388-389. 
Baking Powder Biscqits, 417. 
Bananas, Baked, 574. 

Compote of , 573. 

Fried, 574. 

With Rice, etc., 572. 

en Sur prise t 612. 
Bass Forcemeat, 99. 
Bass Fried with Bacon, 96. 
Batter, Fritter, 272. 

for Swedish Timbale Cases, 
272. 
Batters and Doughs, Description 

of, 384-385- 
Bavarian Cream, Composition of, 

516. 
Apricot. 519. 
Burnt Almond, 518. 
Caramel, 517. 
Chocolate, 517. 
Coffee, 517. 
Ginger, 518. 
Maple, 518. 
Pineapple, 518. 
Pistacl^o, etc., 519. 



7t3 



714 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Bavarian Cream — Continued. 

Raspberry, 520. 

Rice, 520. 

Vanilla, 517. 
Bean Salad, French, 357. 
Beans, Boston Baked, 159. 

Baked with Sausage, 158. 

Lima, 30J. 

String and with Bacon, 305. 
Beating, 19. 
Beef k la \Iode, 126. 

Braised, 127. 

Cakes, Broiled, 652. 

Cannelonof, 129. 

Chemical Composition, etc., 
122. 

Corned, 130. 

Creamed Corned, au Gratin, 
248. 

Diagram of a Side of, 123. 

Essence, 647. 

Fillet of, 266. 

Fillet of, Roasted, 128. 

Fillets of, with Marrow, 266. 

Forcemeat, Cutlets of, etc., 
262. 

Juice, Broiled, 647. 

Roast, 125-126. 
Beefsteak, Chateaubriand Pierce, 

Description and Names, 131. 

Flank, 134. 

Hamburg, 133. 

To Broil, 132. 
Beef Stew, 129. 

Hungarian, 133. 
Beef, Tenderloin Cutlets of, 126. 
Beef Tenderloin, Grenadins of, 267. 

With Juice, 652. 

Minions of, 267. 
Dumas. 268. 
With Chestnuts, 268 

Noisettes of, 268. 

Paupiettes of, 268. 

Supreme of, 263. 
Beef Tea, 648. 
Beef Tongue, Boiled, 131. 

In Jelly, 278. 
Belgian Hare, 182, 186, 187. 
Beets, Cooking of, 304. 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 417. 

Finger, with Pistachio, 437. 



Biscuit — Continued. 

Glac6, 600. 

Maryland Beaten, 413. 

Naples, 436. 

Oatmeal, 409. 

Tomato, 406. 

Tortoni, 621. 
Bisque of Lobster, 209. 
Bisque of Oyster, 209. 
Bisque, Mock, 210. 
Bisques, Derivation, etc.. 20S. 
Blackberry Sponge, 572. 
Blanching Almonds and Nuts, 33. 

Fresh Vegetables, 30. 

Macaroni, 335. 

Rice, 30. 
Blanc Mange, 511. 

Prunes, 515, 

Sea Moss Farine, 653. 
Boiling, 16. 
Bombi Glac6, 616. 
Bomb^ Glac^, Combinations for, 

617. 
Boning, 22. 
Boning Poultry and birds, 167, 

169. 
BoujUoh, 198. 
BcUquet, lutchen, 23. 
Bow Knots, 456. 
Braising, 17. 
Bread, Baking, 400. 

Barley, 403. 

Braids, 406. 

Brown, with Yeast, 464, 

Brown , Boston .415. 

Caraway Seed. 403. 

Care of, after Bakmg. 400. 

Entire Wheat or Graham, 
402. 

Five Hour. 404. 

Flour, When to Use, 394. 

Flour, How to Distinguish. 

French, 402. 

General Directions for. 396. 

Gluten, 404. 

Ingredients of, 393. 

Muk, 401. 

and Water. 402. 
Oat meal, 403. 
Old Fashioned Brown, 409. 

Virginia Batter, 413. 



INDEX 



715 



Bread— Continued. 

Proportions of Ingredients in, 

397. 
Ptdled, 410. 

Rye, 403. 

Sticks, 406. 

Sponge for, 401. 

Utensils for, 397. 

Virginia Spoon Com, 413. 

Water, 402. 

What is Good, 393. 

Breakfasts and Ltincbeons, For- 
mal, 700. 
Brioche, 427. 

Coffee KoUs from, 428. 

St. Mark, 429. 

With Head, 429. 
Broiling, 1 1 . 
Broiling Pan, 12. 

To Bread for, 26. 

Brook Trout, Broiled, 96. 
In Paper Cases, 98. 
Etc., Steamed, 90. 

Broth, Chicken, Veal, etc., 648- 

649- 
Mutton, 649. 

Scotch Beef, 649. 

Standard Fish, 197. 

Standard Formula for, 198. 
Brownies, 448. 

Brussels Sprouts with Butter, 301. 
Buns, Bath, 431. 

Brioche, 428. 

Easter or Hot Cross, 408. 
Butter, Anchovy, 242. 

Black {Beurre Noir), 242. 

Clarified, 243. 

Green, 242. 

Lobster, 242. 

Butters, Fancy, 366. 



Cabbage, Cookery of, 301. 

Stuffed, 301. 
Cake, Almond, 445. 

Angel, 435- 

Baking, 424, 427. 

Blueberry Tea, 418. 

Boiled Sponge, 434. 

Breakfast Com, 414. 



Cake — Continued, 
Bride's, 442. 
Chocolate Sponge, 435. 
Cocoanut, 435. 
Cocoanut Potmd, 448. 
Delicate, 44 c. 
Devil's Food, 443. 
Election, 432. 
Elegant, 443. 
Entire Wheat Fruit, 439. 
Formula for Sponge, 433. 
Fruit, 439-440. 
Fruit (WTiite), 439. 
German Apple, 432. 
German Coffee, 407. 
Golden, 445. 

Hartford Election, 431,444. 
Hickory Nut, 44 1 . 
Ice Cream, 443,445. 
Icings and Decorations, 458. 
Ide^ Sponge, 434. 
Imperial, 440. 
Tommy, 412. 
Lemon, 444. 
Lincoln, 441. 
Loaf, 439. 

Made with Yeast, 426. 
Making, Materials for, 424. 
Preliminaries to, 422- 

423- 
Utensils for, 424. 

Mixing, Butter, 426. 
Sponge, 426. 

Mocha, 436. 

Moist Chocolate, 442. 

Nut and Raisins, 441. 

Orange, 438. 

Pans, Linmg and Filling, 425. 

Pineapple, 446. 

Pistachio, 446. 

Plain, 443. 

Pound (by Weight and Meas- 
ure), 438. 

Potmd (White), 439. 

Sponge, 434. 

(With Water), 437. 
Spider Com, 414. 

St. Honors, 501. 
Stockbridge, 414. 
Stmshine, 435. 
Thanksgiving, 43 1 . 
White, 441. 



7^6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Cakes, Berlin Pan, 433. 
Boston Cream. 453- 
Breadcrumb Gnadle, 419. 
Buckwheat > 4 1 9 • 
Conuneal and Kice, 419. 
Flannel j 419. 

French Cream, 454- 

German Coffee, 408. 

Komlet Griddle, 430. 

Lady Finger, 436. 

Lempn Queen, 447. 

Molasses Drop, 446. 

Nut, 447. 

Regarding, 421-423. 

Rice Griddle, 419. 

Small Chocolate, 447. 
Call's Head, Brains, etc., 154. 

Liver, Bf oiled, 151. 
Fried, 151. 
Loaf, 152. 
Canap6s, Indian Style, 367. 

Lobster, 367. 
Candy, Cocoanut Cre^m, 636, 

Maple Cream, 03 5. 

Molasses, 635. 

Peanut Brittle, ^36. 

Vanilla Sugar, 63 «. 
Candied Chestnuts {Marrons 
Glacis), 638. 

Orange or Lemon Peel, 639. 

Violets, 639. 
Canning, 581. 
Canned Strawberries, 589. 
Caramel for Flavoring, Lining, 

etc., 33. 
Caramel Sai^ce, 555. 
Caramels, 634, 635, 

Chocolate, 635. 

Vanilla, 634. 
Carameled Nuts, 638. 
Carbohydrates, Where Found, 5. 
Carbonates, ^87. 

Carbon Dioxide, 385, 387, 396. 
Carrots, 314. 
Catsup, Grape, 594. 

Mushroom, 595. 

Tomato, 594. 
Cauliflower k la Huntington, 300. 

And Beet Salad, 358. 

Au Gratin in Cheese Shell, 300. 

Composition, 284. 

Cookery of, 299. 



Cauliflower— <7anltn««d. 

Fried, 301. 

With Mushrooms, 300. 
Caviare Croustades, 369. 

In Swedish Cases, 369. 

With Eggs and Cucumbers. 

369- 
Celery and Cheese au Gratin, 311. 

Celery and Cheese Salad, 358. 

Celery, Cress and Walnut Salad. 

360. 

English Walnut and Pimento 

Salad, ^59. 

Creamed in Cheese Shell, 311. 

Jelly, ^60. 

To Fringe, 35. 

With Sauce, 310. 

Cereals, Breakfast, 326. 

Cooking and Serving, 

337- 
In Omelets, 329. 

Chafing Dish Cookery and Serv- 
ice, 339. 
Oysters for, 342. 
Creamed Dishes for, 343. 
Fuel for, 340-341. 
Charlottes, Cold, 521. 
Charlotte Russe, Banana Canta- 
loupe, 523. 
Burnt Almond, 521. 
Chestnut, 525. 
Chocolate, 523. 
Filling, 524, 617. 
Individtial Maple, 523. 
Strawberry, 521. 
With Quinces, 522. 
Salpicon of Fruit. 522. 
Chartreuse of Chestnuts, 524. 

Salmon, 102. 
Chateaubriand k la Pierce, 153. 
Chaudfroid, Chicken Supreme, 
282. 
Lamb Chops, 283. 
Sauce, 231. 
Sweetbread, 283. 
Tongue, with Jelly, 282. 
Chaudfroids, Description of, 281. 
Cheese Balls, 381. 
Bouch^es, 490. 
Caken, 378. 
Cottage, 377. 
Composition of, etc., 375-376- 



INDEX 



717 



Cheese — Continued. 

Cream, 378. 

Croquettes, 382. 

In Shells, 380. 

Moulded With Nuts, Neuf- 
chatel, 379. 

Rings, 381. 

And Celery Salad, 358. 

Sandwiches, 373. 

Service df, 377. 

Souffle, 379. 

Straws, 381. 
Cherries with Crusts, 573. 
Chestnut Croquettes, 534. 

Custard, 504. 

Preserves, Vgtnilla, 585. 
Chestnuts, Blanching, etc., 34. 

Chartreuse of, 524. 

Devilled, 348. 

Pur6e of, with Cream, 526. 
Chicken k la Bonne Femme, i8i. 

And Sweetbread Croquettes, 

251.' 
Boiled with Tomato Sauce, 

182. 
Broiled with Sweet I^ota- 

toes, 178. 
Casserole of, 180. 
Chaudfroid of, 282. 
Cold Souffle of, 280. 
Cream Forcemeat, 257. 

of, Glac6, 281. 
Creamed with Potatoes and 

Peppers, 346. 
Creole, 179. 
Curry of, 182. 
Cutlets, Parker House Style, 

253. 
Cutlets with Salad, 277. 
Essence of, 234. 
Fillets, Plain, 270. 

In Aspic, 653. 

With Forcemeat, 271. 
Mushrooms, 271. 
Tongue, 270. 
Forcemeat with Sauce, 257. 
Fricassee, 180. 
Fried in Batter, 272. 
Legs as Cutlets, 261. 
Loaf, 151. 
Pressed, 151. 
Pur6e for dfamish, 281. 



Chicken — Continued . 

Rechauf6 with Pilaf, 249. 

Salad in Rolls, 361. 

Saut^, 178-179. 

With Cauliflower, 170. 

Supreme of, ^64. 

Timbal^s, 259, i6o, 263. 

Victoria, 248. 
Chocolate Bombe with Fruit, 613. 

Cake, Moist, 442. 

Cakes, Small, 447. 

Chestnuts, 633. 

Composition, etc., bf, 50. 

Custard Pudding, 503. 

Eclairs, 454. 

Mints, 632. 

Puffs, 454. 

Recipe for, as Drink, 52. 

Soufil^, 348. 

In Puddings, Use of, 495. 
Chowder, Clam, 213. 

Com, 213. 

Fish, Boston Style, 2ii. 

Coney Island Style, 213. 
English Style, 213. 
Chowders, Derivation of Term, 

212. 
Chutney, Apple, 595. 
Clam Broth, 113. 
Clams, Cocktail of, 107, 367. 

Creamed, 113. 

Regarding, 106. 

Relishes, 366. 
Claret Cup, 59. 
Cocoa, Breakfast, 52. 

Composition, etc., 50. 

CracKed, 51. 

Frapp6, 615. 
Codfish Balls, loi. 

Boiled, 90. 

Boned and Baked, 93. 

Fried, 96. 

Picked Up, 100. 
Coffee, Boiled, 49. 

Bread, 646. 

Composition, etc., of, 48. 

Filtered, 50. 
Collagen, 5. 
Compote of Bananas, 573. 

Chestnuts, 576. 

Figs, 575. 

Stuffed Pears, 571. 



7i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Confections, Fig and Nuts, 637. 
Cookies, 451. 

Peanut, 449. 

Molasses Candy, 452. 
Cooking, Elementary Processes 
in, 10. 

Utensils, Care of, 661, 662, 
663. 
Consomm^, 199. 

Printanier, 197. 
Com, 312. 

Croquettes, 313. 

Custard, 313. 

Fritters, 313. 

Meal Relish, 328. 
Cover, The, 693. 
Crabs, 115. 

k la Creole, 345. , 

Soft Shelled, Broiled, 119. 
Fried, 119. 
Saut^, 119. 
Cranberry Sauce, 574. 
Cream, Beating 01, 31. 
Cream Cheese for Bouch^es, 490. 

Devonshire, 528. 

Double and Single, 31. 

English, 500. 

Forcemeat, Chicken, 256. 

Hamburg, 514. 

White Mountain, 464. 
Cream, Ice, Burnt Almond, 607. 

Caramel, 606. 

Chocolate, 606. 

Coffee, 608. 

Fig, 607. 

Ginger, 608. 

In Muskmelon, 565. 

Junket, 604. 

Neapolitan, 599. 

Peach, 612. 

Philadelphia, 599. 

Pineapple, 615. 

Pistachio, 607. 

Tutti-Frutti, 608. 

Vanilla, 604. 

With Nuts, etc., 608. 
Starch, 605. 
Cream Ices, Fruit, 605. 

Mocha, 460. 

Mock, 549. 
Cream of Chicken Glac^, 281. 
Cream of Tartar, 385, 387, 389. 



Cream, Orange, 512. 

Roll, Vienna, 490. 

Sauce, Burnt, 55. 

Scones, 417. 

St. Honors, 501. 

Tapioca, 537. 

White Moimtain, 464. 
Creamed Chicken, Peppers, etc., 

346. 

Cumed Shad Roe, 343. 

Dishes. 343. 
Croquette Mixtiu'e, to Shape, 26. 
Croquettes, Apple, 571. 

Cheese, 382. 

Chestnut, 534. 

Chicken and Sweetbread, 251. 

Egg or Easter. 67. 

Kentucky Com. 313. 

Macarom , Mushroom , etc. , 
252. 

Mushroom, 321. 

Potato, 292. 

Sweet, and Almond, 294. 

Pork, German Style, 158. 

Rice with Raspberries, 572. 

Rice, Plain and Savory, 333. 

Sweet Rice, 335. 

Veal, 252. 
Croustades, Anchovy, 368. 

Bread, 28. 

Caviare, 369. 

Pastry, 29. 

P^t^ de foie gras in, 370. 

Potato, 29. 

Rice, 29. 
Croutons, Bread and Cheese. 379 

For Soup and Garnishing, 28. 

Orange, 489. 

Puff Paste, 219. 

Ham, 161. 
Crown Roast of Lamb, 140. 
Currantade, 58. 
Currant Jelly, 589. 
Currants, Bottled, 586. 

Spiced, 594. 

Washing, 34. 
Curry of Duck, 347. 

Macaroni, 346. 
Custard, Beef Tea, 651. 

Boiled, 499. 

Chestnut, 504. 

Renvers6e, 505. 



INDEX 



719 



Custard — Continued. 

Chicken, 651. 

Chocolate, 503. 

Chocolate, with Snow Eggs, 
$02. 

Enghsh Cream, 500. 

Firm, 503. 

Fried, 505. 

Maple, 503. 

Pineapple, 505. 

Renvers^e, 504. 

Savory, 651. 

St. Honor6 Cream, 501. 
Cutting and Folding, 20. 

D 

Dates with Cream, Stuffed, 575. 
Daubing, 2 1 . 
Devonsnire Cream, 528. 
Digestion, Conditions for 
Stomach, 677. 

Gastric, 676. 

Intestinal, 675, 677. 

Physiology of, 674. 

Of Starch, 7, 675, 678. 
Dinner, Announcement of, 688. 

Styles of Serving, 689. 

The Home, 701. 
Dinner Party, Invitation to, 687. 
Hour and Length of, 688 
Dinners, Little, 700. 
Dough, Description of, 384. 

Kneading, 398. 

Shaping Bread, 400. 
Doughnuts, 456. 

Raised, 433. 
Duck, Curry of, 347. 

Salad, 364. 

Salmi of, 347. 
Ducks, Canvas Back, etc., 183. 

Domestic, Roasted, 175. 

Stuffiing for, 175. 



Eclairs, Chocolate, 454. 

Queen, 454. 
Egg and Bread Crumb, 25-26. 
Egg and Cress Salad, 358. 

Endive Salad, 359. 

Wine, 652. 



Egg — Continued. 

Tomato Jelly Salad, 360. 

Croquettes, 67. 

Loai with Asparagus, 66. 

Nogg, 56-57,652. 
Eggplant, 299. 
Egg Souffl6, 651. 
Eggs k la Buckingham, 76. 

k la Parisienne, 74. 

Beating of, 30. 

Beauregard, 66. 

Boiled, 64-5. 

Composition, 60. 

Curious Ways of Cooking, 63. 

Fried, 75. 

Hard Boiled, Bechamel, 66. 
With Noodles, etc., 68. 

How to Add to Soups, etc. , 23 . 
Keep as '*Left Over," 

Preserve, 62. 

Tell Whether Fresh, 62. 
Moulded in Pimentos, 74. 
Poached, 69. 
Poached, Coimters, 71. 

Creole Style, 72. 

French Style, 70. 

Hymenic Style, 70. 

In Consomm6, 71. 

In Anchovy Toast, 70. 

Sicilian Style, 72. 

Celery, 71. 

With Salmon, 71. 
Spinach, 70. 
' Salpicon of, in Casseroles, 72. 
Scrambled, 75. 

With Anchovies, etc., 

344- 
With Cheese, 344. 

With Tomatoes, 76, 345. 
Shirred au Miroir, 72-73. 

In Tomatoes, 73. 

With Forcemeat, 74. 
Potato, 74. 
Snow, 514. 
Soft Boiled with Tomatoes, 

65- 
Stuffed and Fried, 67. 

au Gratin, 67. 

For Picnics, 68. 

With Salad, 67. 

Sur Le Plat, 72. 



720 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Eggs — Continued. 

Vermicelli, 66. 

With Brown Butter, 75. 
Entrees, Divisions of , 245. 

Items Concerning, 245. 

Utensils for Making, 246. 



Fanchonettes, Lemon, 479. 

Pineapple, 479. 

Pumpkin, 481. 
Fat, Care of, 15. 

For Frying, etc., 27. 

Smoking Hot, 13. 

Tests for Hot, 13. 
PAts, Where Found, 5. 
Fermentation, Alcoholic, 396. 

Artificial, 385. 

Spontaneous, 385. 
Figs, Stewed, 575. 

With Jelly and Cream, 511. 
Filling, Charlotte Russe, 524. 

Fig, 468. 

Lemon or Orange, 469. 

Orange, 438. 

Pineapple, 468. 
Finnan Haddie Boiled, 100. 

Delmonico, loo. 
Fire, Building of, 3. 

For Cake Making, 423. 
Fish k la Cr^me, 104. 

Baking of, 88. 

Boiling of, 86. 

Broiling of, 87. 

Cakes, 103. 

Chemical Composition, 80. 

Chops, 103. 

Cream Forcemeat, 257. 

Forcemeat, Shells of, 260. 

Fried, 89. 

In Court Bouillon, 86. 

In Curry Sauce, 104. 

In Season, 659. 

Preparation for Cooking, 84. 

Saut^, 89. 

Stuffiing, 88, 92-93. 

Timbales, 260. 

To Bread for Frying, 26. 

To Determine Freshness, 83. 

Trussing of, 88. 

Turbot, 104. 
Flageolet, 305. 



Flavoring Sweet Dishes. 496. 
Flirts, Aunt Sallie's, 539. 
Floating Island, 502. 
Flounder, Stuffed with Force- 
meat, 97. 
Stuffed with Potato, 97. 
With Peas, 94. 
Fondant, 630. 
Maple. 633. 

Working and Using, 631. 
Tutti Frutti, 633. 
Food, Definition of, i. 
In Asthma, 643. 

Chronic Rheumatism, 643. 
Diabetes, 642. 
Malaria, 645. 
Scurvy, 645. 
Season, 658. 
Tuberculosis, 645. 
Typhoid Fever, 644. 
Effect of Unsuitable. 678. 
Object in Cooking, 2. 
Office in Body, 664, 665, 666. 
Principles, The Five, 3. 
Forcemeat » Bass, 99. 

Chicken Cteara, 257. 

Sduce. 257. 
Composition and Use, 256. 
Fillets of Chicken, etc., 271. 
Fish Cream, 257. 
JPor Mousse, 265. 
With Mushrooms, Game. 261. 

gfuenelle. 256, 258. 
ausage. 176. 

Styles of Moulding, 259, 263. 

To Mould and Cook. 258. 
Fowl. Forcemeat for Boned, 176. 

For Broiling, To Dress. t66. 

For Fricassee, To Dr^s, 166. 

Steamed. 182. 

To Clean and Draw, 164. 
Frapp6, Cantaloupe, 616. 

Coffee, 616. 

Cranberry, 616. 

Strawbery 8ouffi6, 623. 
Frapp6s. 615. 
French Dressing, 353. 
Fritter Batter, 272, 54X< 
Fritters, Apple, 542. 

Com, 313. 

Golden Ball, 542. 

Parsnip, 314. 



INDEX 



721 



Frog's Legs, 119. 

Fried, 121. 

Saut6, 121, 

And in Sauce, 121. 
Frozen Desserts, Regarding, 596. 
Fniit Centrepiece, 566. 

Composition, etc., 557. 

Cup, 615. 

Flavors, To Bring Out, 506. 

In Season, 660. 

Preservation of, 578-9. 

Serving of Fresh, 559-566. 

Time to Eat, 558. 
Frying, 12. 

Utensils for, 14. 
Fudge, 635. 



Garnishes for Fowl, etc., 681. 

Game, 681. 

Soup, 214, 219. 

Sweet Dishes, 496. 
Garnishing, 679. 
Gelatine, How to Use, 495. 

Proportion to Liquid, 506. 
German Crisps, 451. 

Rings, 451- 
Gingerbread, Fairy, 450. 

New York, 445. 

Rochester, 444. 
Ginger Nuts, English, 449. 
Ginger Snaps, 452. 
Glaze for Bread and Rolls, 35. 

Meat, etc., 234. 
Gluten in Wheat, 393. 
Gnocchi ^ la Romaine, 38. 

auGratin, 329. 
Golden Buck, 383. 
Goose, Yoimg Domestic, 174. 
Grape Catsup, 594. 

Fruit, Service of, 560-561 

Juice, 576. 

Preserves, 583. 

Sponge, 513. 

Wine, 59. 
Grouse, Broiled, 184. 

Roasted, 184. 
Gruel and Egg (Caudle) ,651. 

Oatmeal, 646. 

Flour and Meal, 647. 
Gumbo Soup, 211. 



H 

Haddock, etc.. Baked, 92. 

And Oysters, Matelote, 91. 
Halibut and Lobster HoUandaise, 

343- 
Halibut, Baked, 91. 

Steaks and Oysters, 92. 

Turbans with Forcemeat, 94. 

Lobster, 99. 

Potato Balls, 94. 

Turbans, Tomato Sauce, 94. 

Ham and Bacon, To Cure, 156. 

Egg Sandwiches ,372. 

Baked with Cider, 160. 

Boiled, 160. 

Broiled, 161. 

Cooked in Casserole, 161. 

Croutons, 161. 

Sandwiches, Hot, 346. 

Timbales, 279. 

Hare, Belgian, 186. 

Curry of, 182. 

In Casserole, 187. 

Hearts, Strawberry, 491. 

Heat Indicator, 37. 

Herbs, Fine Cooked, 23. 

Hermits, 452. 

Hominy Balls, 329. 

Hors'd'CEuvres, 365. 

Horseradish Dressing, 364. 

With Apple Sauce, 243. 

Hospitality and Entertaining, 

684. 



Ice a Cake, To, 466. 

Ice with Royal Icing, To, 467. 

Ices, Cream, 590. 

Ices, Individual, 600. 

Freezing and Motdding, 602. 

Serving, 603, 625. 

Water, 601. 
Icing, Almond, 463. 

Boiled Chocolate, 465. 
Maple, 465. 
Pineapple, 465. 

Butter, 460. 

Caramel, 464. 

Chocolate with Syrup, 461. 

Cooked, 463. 

Fondant, 466. 



722 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Icing — Continued. 

ice Cream or Soft, 461. 

Marshxnallow, 466. 

Materials for, 459. 

Orange Cake, 438. 

Piping with Ornamental, 467. 

Utensils for, 459. 

Water, 460. * 

Chocolate, 461. 
White Mountain Cream, 464. 



Jam, Blackberry or Strawberry, 

«, 587. 
Rhubarb, 587. 

Jams, j8i. 

Jelly, Aspic, 273-4-5. 

Asparagus Salad in, 354. 

Boned Quail In, 279. 

Timbales of Ham in, 279 

Lobster in, 279. 

Tongue in, 278. 

Canned Peach, 571. 

Celery, 360. 

Coffee, 508. 

Cranberry, 575. 

Currant, etc., 589. 

Figs and Cream with, 511. 

Ivory, 510. 

Lemon and Orange, 507. 

With Orange Sections, 508. 

Rhubarb, 509. 

And Banana Cream, 509. 

Sauteme, 508. 

Sherry with Raisins, 510. 

Strawberry, 510. 

Tomato, 277. 

With Nut Salad, 360. 

Egg Salad, 360. 

Wine, 508. 

Jellies, Regarding, 581. 

Double Moulding of, 507. 

Uses of Fruit and Wine, 507. 

Jellied and Pickled Feet, 162. 

Apples, 569-570. 

Jumbles, Soft, 452. 

Junket, Devonshire, 527. 

Egg with Cream, 653. 

Plain, 527. 

Plain Variations of, 528. 

With Wine, 654. 



Komlet, 312. 

Griddle Cakes, 420. 
Koumiss, 56. 
Kromeskies, 253. 



Lady Fingers, 436. 

Lady Locks, 489. 

Lamb Chops, Bussy, 144. 

Catalane, 144. 

Chaudfroid of , 283. 
Lamb, Crown Roast of, 140. 

Kidney Stew of , 144. 

Loin, Best End of, 269. 

Roast, 142. 
Larding, 21. 
Leaven, 385-6. 

Leavened Bread,Early Use of.391. 
Leavening Agents, Proportions, 

390- 
Lemon Cake, 444. 

Custard Pie, 480. 

Fanchonettes, 479. 

Jelly, 507. 

Queens, 447. 

Sauce, 550-552. 
Lemons, Preparing for Use, 34. 
Lemonade, 57. 

Irish Moss, 648. 

Pineapple, 58, 
Lobster, Broiled Live, 118. 

Creamed, 118. 

Creole Style, 344. 

Curry of, 116. 

Cutlets, 117. 

Rushmore, iiS. 

Salad, 365. 

Sandwiches, 372. 

Souffle, 255. 

Stuffed, Narragansett Pier, 
116. 

Timbales, Jellied, 279. 
Lobsters, Boiling, etc., 1 14. 

Regarding, 113. 



Macaroni and Cheese au Gratm, 

337- 
Baked, ^37. 

Moulded, 336. 



INDEX 



723 



Macaroni — Continued. 

And Tomatoes, 337. 
Mushrooms, 322. 

Curry of, 346. 

Italienne, 336. 

Kidneys, etc., 324. 

Milanesi, 335. 

Ragout, 262. 

Regarding, 335. 
Macedome of Fruit and Nuts, 508. 
Mackerel, Broiled, 95. 

Salt, Broiled, 102. 
Mar^erites, 4J7. 
Marinade, Cooked, 27, 243. 

Uncooked, 28. 
Marketing, 656-657. 
Marmalade, Jams, Butters, 580. 
Marmalade, Apple, etc., 588. 

Orange, 588. 

And Apple, 588. 

Pineapple, 587. 

Rhubarb, 587. 
Measuring, 19. 
Melons, To Serve, 564-565. 
Menu, Balanced, Family of Six, 

672. 
Referring to, 668, 669, 
670, 671. 

Christmas, 710. 

Colonial Tea, 710. 

Easter Dinner, 711. 

Home Dinner, 703. 

Lawn Fete, 711. 

Lenten Luncheon, 711. 

Representative Dinner, 699. 

Thanksgiving Dinner, 709. 

The Dinner, 698. 

Wedding Breakfast, 712. 
Merin^e, Italian, 464. 

Pie and Pudding, 555. 

Swedish, 437. 
Meringues, 455. 

Mushroom, 456. 

With Strawberries, 456. 
Milk, Care of, 54, 658. 

Composition, etc., 53. 

Peptonized, 650. 

Sterilized and JPasteurized,55. 
Milling Methods, 395. 
Mineral Matter, Wnere Found, 4. 
Mirepoix, 234. 
Mirlitons, 490. 



Mould, Lining with Lady Fingers, 

497- 
Moulding in Aspic, 275. 

Double, 276. 

Mousse, 621. 

Or Mousseline, 265. 

Caramel, 622. 

CMbstnut, 622. 

Forcemeat for, 265. 

Peach, etc., 622. 

Pineapple and Jelly, 623. 

Quail, 265. 

Muffins,- Blueberry, 417. 

Com Meal, 416. 

Date, 417. 

Entire Wheat, 416. 

General Rule for, 4x6. 

Twin Mountain, 4x7. 

Mushrooms, Agaricus Campes- 

tr6s, 318. 
k la Algonquin, 32 x . 
Aminita, 318. 
Boleti witn Bacon, 322. 
Cepes k la Dumas, 324. 
Clavaria with Cheese, 323 
Cooked under Glass, 321. 
Coprinus Comatus and 

Oysters, 322. 
Croquettes, 321. 
Essence of, 234. 
Nutritive Value, etc., 3x8. 
Preparation to Cook, 319. 
Putt Ball Stew, 320. 

Recipes for, . 

Russulae k la Bordelaise, 328. 

Scalloped, 320. 

Stewed, J19. 

Stuffing tor Pimentoes, 323. 

Tomatoes, 32^. 
To Keep Temporanly, 319. 
With Calves Brains, 322. 

Cauliflower, 300. 

Kidneys, 324. 

Macaroni, 322. 
Mutton, Boiled, X40. 

Chops, Broiled, X4x. 

Marchale, X43. 

Casserole, X43. 

Pan Broiled, X42. 

Fried, X42. 
Composition, Cuts, etc., 

X36-8. 



724 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Mutton — Continued. 
Haricot, 250. 
Leg Roasted, ij8. 

Boned andf Stuffed, 139. 
Rechauffe, 347. 

Creole, 248. 

With Macoroni, m9- 
Saddle of, 139. 
Stew, 141. 



N 



Nitrogen, 665. 
Noodles, 216. 



Office of Pood Principles, 666. 
Okra, Cooking of , 3 1 7 . 

Gumbo Soup from Fresh, 
211. 

Salad, 358. 

Saut6, Creole Style,*3i7. 
Olives, Service of, 367, 697. 

Stuffed, ^67. 
Omelet, Breakfast Cereal, 329. 

Formula for Three Egg, 78. 

French, 77. 

Mrs. Grant's, 79. 

Orange, 348. 

Pineapple, 546. 

Puffy, 78. 

Rice, 79. 

Rum, 546. 

Strawberry Jam, 547. 
Omelets, Regarding, 76. 

Starch Foundation, 79. 
Onion Juice, To Extract, 25. 

Souffle, 302. 
Onions, Cooking, 302. 

As Flavoring, 24. 

Stuffed, 302. 
Orangeade, 57. 
Orange Cream, 512. 

Croutons, 489. 

Curd, 489. 

Marmalade, 588 

Omelet, 348. 

Sabay on Sauce ,551. 

Sauce, 550, 554. 

Salad, 36J-364. 
Oranges, Serving, 560-561. 
Ox-tails, Braised, 135. 



Oyster Cocktails, 107, 367. 
Forcemeat Balls. 210. 
Pie, no. 

Salad in Ice Bowl, 362. 
Souffle, ^55. 
Stew, 109,342,343. 
Oysters , and Macaroni , 1 09- no. 
As Relishes, 366. 
Broiled with Bacon ,111. 

WithCeler>% 108. 

Mattre d' Hotel, etc.. in. 
Chafing Dish Cookery of, 342. 
Creamed, 108. 
Fried. III. 

In Batter, 112. 
Opening, 106. 
Scalloped, no. 
Season of, etc., 105. 
With Cream, 342. 

Brown Sauce, 109. 



Palmettes, 265. 
Panada, Bread, 958. 

Flour, 258. 
Pancakes, Berlin, 433. 
Pancreatic Juice, 675. 
Parfait and Mousse Mixtures, 60: 

Angel, 618. 

Caramel, 619. 

Chocolate, 619. 

Coffee, 619. 

Ginger, 620. 

Grape Juice, 619. 

Maple, 621. 

Mignonette. 620. 

Simshine, 619. 
Parsnip Fritters, 314. 
Parsnips, Cookery or, 314. 
Partridge, Roasted, etc., 185. 
Paste, Chopped, 473. 

Chou, 453. 

Puff, Baking, 486. 

Puff Making, 484. 
Pastry, Classification of, 471. 

Cream, 474-475. 

Digestion of, 470. 

Flaky, 474. 

Flour, To Distinguish, 394- 

Flour, When to Use, 3 94. 

Pastry Keeping, 473. 



INDEX 



7^5 



Pastry — Continiied, 

Materials and Utensils for, 

472. 
Plain, 473. 

Potato, 475. 
Patty Shells, 488. 
Pea Timbales, 31a. 
Peas, Cookery of , 3 1 1 . 
Peach and Rice Meringue, 573. 
Peaches Pyramid of, 57a. 
Pears, Preserved with Ginger, 583. 
Pepper, Spiced, 35. 
Peppermints, 632. 
Pfefier Nusse, 449. 
Pickle, Green Tomato Sweet, 592. 

French, 593, 

Indian, 591. 

Pears, Peaches, Sweet, etc., 

Pickled Caidiflower, 593. 

Limes, Sweet, 593. 
Pickles, Concerning, 590. 

Cucumber, Sweet, 594. 

Olive Oil, 593. 

Sour, 590. 
Pie, Apple, 477. 

Etherial, 477. 
Mother's, 478. 

Berry, 482. 

Cranberry, 478-479. 

Custard, 481. 

Date, 483. 

Fig, 482. 

Green Tomato, 478. 

Lemon Custard, 480. 

Making, 475. 

Mince, 483. 

Mock Cherry, 478. 

One Crust, 476-477. 

Orange, 480. 

Pineapple, 479. 

Pnuie, 478. 

Pumpkin, 480. 

Rhubarb, 482. 

Squash, 481. 
Pigeons, Casserole Style, 184. 

Stewed in Broth, 184. 
Pilaf, Turkish, 3^2. 
Pimentos, Eggs Moulded in, 74. 

Stuffed, 324. 
Pineapple and Orange, Frozen, 
562. 



Pineapple — Continued. 

Omelet, 546. 

Shredded, 562. 
Pineapples, Digestive Properties, 

^62. 
Planked Shad, etc., 95. 
Polenta, 320. 

Sauce for, 330. 
Pop Overs, 412. 
Pork Chops, 1^7. 

Composition Cuts, etc., 155- 

Croquettes, 158. 

Crown of, 157. 

Salt, Country Style, 159. 

In Boston baked Bears, 

159- 
Sausage with Apple Sauce, 

158. 

Sausage (Pork) with Beans, 

158. 
Tenderloin, 157. 
Potato and Almond Croquettes, 

294. 
Potato Cakes, 291. 

Croquettes and Boulettes, 

292. 
Nests, 297. 
Roses, 291. 
Turnips and Carrot Balls, 

293- 
Potatoes k la Maltre d H6tel, 293. 

Anna, 293. 

Baked, 7, 289. 

Half Shell, 293. 

With Cheese ,296. 
Boiled, 7, 290. 
Broiled, 295. 
Delmonico, 295. 
Delmonico Cream Roll, 295. 
Duchess, 291. 
Escalloped, 292. 
Franconia, 292. 
French Fried ,297. 
Hashed Brown, 296. 
Hashed White, 296. 
Imitation New, 289. 
Mashed, 290. 
Mashed Fish Service, 291. 
Parisian, 294. 
Perfect, 289. 
Riced, 290. 



726 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Potatoes, Scalloped with Cheese, 
296. 

Syractise Hot Salt, 393. 

Warmed in Milk, 296. 

Sweet, Candied, 295. 

Sweet, Southern Style, 294. 
Poxiltry. etc., Boning of, 167-168. 

Composition, 163. 

Filleting, 170. 

Trussing for Boiling, 170. 

Trussing for Roasting, 169. 

Roasting, 171. 

Stuffing, 169. 

Season. 660. 
Preserves, Berry, 582. 

Citron or Watermelon, 585. 

Fig and Rhubarb, 586. 

General Rule for, 580. 

Grapes, 587. 

Quince and Sweet Apple, 586 

Strawberry, 584. 
Tomato, 586. 

Vanilla Chestnut, 585-586. 
Proteids, 665-666. 
Pudding, Apple and Brown 
Bread, 535. 

Apple Tapioca, 536. 

Berry, Steamed, 534. 

Brown Betty, 530. 

Cabinet, 533. 

Carrot, 536. 

Castellane, 512. 

Cherry, 535. 

Cherry Souffle, 544. 

Chocolate Custard, 503. 

Christmas Plum, 532. 

Cottage, 541. 

Cracker Kaisin, 531. . 

Cuban, 532. 

Cumberland, 543. 

Easter, 515. 

English, 535. 

Frozen, 601. 

Fruit, 536. 

Glac6, Plum, 608. 

Glac6, Rice, 623. 

Indian, Baked, 539. 

Indian Mock, 530. 

Indian Suet, 539. 

Indian Tapioca, 538. 

Nesselrode, 609. 

Rebecca, 515, 



Pudding — Continue. 

Rice, 516. 

Rice and Milk Baked, 538. 

Roman, 264. 

Sabayon, 624. 

Souffl6, C43. 

Sponge Batter, 545. 

St. Davids, 531. 

Sweet Potato, 533. 

Tapioca Fruit, 537. 
Custard, 537. 

Thanksgiving. 530. 

Tipsy, 502. 

Tomato and Cheese, 316. 

Vitos, 533. 

Yorkshire, 126. 
Puddings, Cooking of Steamed, 

529- 
Foundation of, 493. 

Queen of, 531. 
Puffs, Chocolate, 454. 

Com Meal, 416. 

German, 540. 
Puffets, Wheat, 417. 
Punch, Frozen, 624 

Fruit. 58. 

Hot Claret, 60. 

Tea, 625. 

Tomato, 625. 
Pur6e, Banana, 554. 

Beans and Tomato, 204 

Chicken, 202. 

Chestnut, 205. 

{erusalem, Artichoke, 203. 
»entil. Split Pea, etc., 203. 
Potato. 204. 
Pur6es, Service of, etc.. 202. 
Pyramid of Peaches, 572. 



Quail Mousseline, 265. 
Quails, Boned in Jelly, 279. 

Roasted, 185. 

Roasted in Grape Leaves, 186. 
Queen 's Lemon , 44 7 . 

Vienna, 448. 



Rabbit, Cheese and Tomato* 383. 

Welsh, 382. 
Rabbits, Regarding, 341, 



INDEX 



727 



Range, The Kitchen, a. 
Raspberry Shrub, 59. 
Raspberries with Rice Cro- 
quettes, 572. 
Refrigerator, Care of, 661. 
Regularity in Feeding, 641. 
Rhubarb Baked, 575. 

Marmalade, 587. 

Pie. 483. 

Preserved with Figs, 586. 
Rice, Boiled, 331. 

Cooking of, 331. 

Creole Style, 334. 

Croquettes, Plain, 333. 
Savory, 333. 
Sweet, 335. 
' Hot, for Fruit Compotes, 334. 

Milanaise Fashion, 334. 

Regarding, 330. 

Savory, 332. 

With Bacon, 333. 

With Parsley, 334. 
Risotto, 332. 
Rissoles. 253. 
Roasting, 10. 
Roll, Vienna Cream, 490. 
Rolls, Coffee Brioche, 428. 

Crescents, 405. 

Parker House, 405. 

Rasped, 410. 

Salad or Luncheon, 405. 

Swedish, 406-418. 
Rosettes, Scandinavian, 542. 
Roux, 22. 
Rusks, Sponge, 654. 



Salad, Apple and Cress, 357. 
Asparagus. ^54. 
Banana and Pimento, 364. 
Bird's Nest, 359. 
Cabbage, 356. 
Cauliflower and Beet, 358. 
Celery, Apple and Pepper, 

363- 
Celery and Cheese, 358. 

Celery, Cress, etc., 360. 

Celery Jelly, 360. 

Celery and Orange, 363. 

Celery, Pimento and Nut,359. 

Chicken in Salad Rolls, 361. 



Salad — Continued, 

College, 364. 

Cress and Egg .358. 

Cucumber for Fish ,357. 

Duck, 364. 

Egg and Tomato Jelly, 360. 

Endive, 354. 

Endive and Egg, 359. 

French Bean, 357. 

Grape, Orange and Nut, 364. 

Lobster, 365. 

Making. 350-351. 

Materials, Draining, 353. 

Materials, Preparation, 352. 

New Spinach, 359. 

Orange and Nut, 362. 

O^^ster, in Ice Bowl, 362. 

Pmeapple, Pimento, etc., 363 

Plants, Cleansing, 351. 

Points in Making, 353. 

Potato, 355. 

Potato with Bacon, 355. 

Salmon, 361. 

Scallop, 362. 

Shad Roe and Cucumber, 362 

Shrimp and Cucumber, 361. 

Sweetbread, Cucumber, etc., 
361. 

Stuffed Tomato ,356. 

Tomato, 355. 

Tomato and Cucumber, 356. 

Tomato Jelly with Nuts, 360 
Sally Lunn, 400. 
Salmon, Bakeain Paper, 91. 

Boiled, 90. 

Chartreuse of , 102. 

Mousse, 97. 

Salad, 361. 

Salted, 102. 

Salted, Boiled, etc., 102. 
Salpicon, Meaning of, 21. 
Samp, Baltimore, with Cream 

Sauce, 328. 
Sandwiches, Cheese, 373. 

Cheese and Salted Nut, 373. 

Chicken, 373. 

Cottage Cheese and Cress, 373 

Egg £ind Cress, 372. 

Ham and Egg, 372. 

Hot Ham, 346. 

Lobster. 372. 

Norwegian, 374, 



1 



728 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Sandwiches — Continued, 

Preparation of, 370-37 1. 

Raw Beef, 373,652. 

Russian. 373. 

Sardine, 37r. 

Tongue and Rye Bread, 372. 
Sardines Canapds, 369. 
Sardines and Spinach, 100. 
Sauce, AUemande, 224. 

Anchovy, 228. 

Asparagus, 225. 

Bechamel, 224. 

Bemaise, 236. 

Bread, 240. 

Brown, 229. 

Brown Tomato, 229. 

Caper, 228. 

Cauliflower, 226. 

--Cfkry. aag. -^ 
Chantilly Apple, etc., 243. 
Chaudfroid, 231. 
Cheese, 224, 227. 
Cherry, 241. 
Chili, 594. 

Cooked for Salad, 239. 
Colbert, 236. 
Cream, 223. 

Cucumber, 228, 235, 240. 
Currant Jelly, 230. 
Curry, 226. 

Drawn or Melted Butter, 228. 
Egg, 228. 

English Apple with Horse- 
radish, 243. 
Espagnole, 232. 
French, 236. 
German, 228. 
Giblet, 173. 
Hollandaise, 235. 
Horseradish, 227, 241. 
Lobster, 227, 235. 
Mayonnaise, 237. 

Green, 238. 

Telly, 238. 

Red, 238. 

Suggestions for, 237-238. 

White, 238. 
Mint, 241. 
Mousseline, 236. 
Mushroom, White, 225. 

Brown, 229. 
Nonpareil, 235. 



Sauce — Continued. 

Olive, 230. 

Oyster, 227. 

Piquante, 230. 

For Polenta, Rice, etc., 330. 

Prussian, 240. 

Soubise, 225. 

Supreme, 233, 

Supreme, Yellow, 224, 

Tartare. 238. 

Thick White. 223. 

Tomato. White, 226. 

Velouti, 224, 225, 233. 

Vileroi, 230. 

White, 223. 
Sauce, Sweet. 

Apple, 566. 

Apricot, 430, 553. 

Banana. 550. 

Brandy, 549. 

Burnt Cream, 555. 

Caramel, 555. 

Cherry, 554. 

Chocolate, 551, 610. 

Claret, 611. 

Coffee, 551, 611. 

Creamy, 552. 

Currant, 611. 

Currant Jelly. 553. 

Cranberry, 574. 

Frothy, 553. 

For Frozen Pudding, 609. 

Hard, 554-555- 

Lemon. 550, 552. 

Maraschino, 5 48. 

Mock Cream, 549. 

Mousseline, 551-552. 

Orange, 550. 554. 

Royal, 550. 

Sabayon, 550. 

Strawberry ,553,610. 

Tutti Frutti, 549. 

Yellow, 553. 
Sauces. Fine, 232. 

Fruit Juice, 553. 

Roux for, 222. 

Simple, 222. 

Sweet, Composition, 54S. 

Synopsis or, 220, 221. 222. 
Saut6ing, 12. 
Savarin, 430. 
Scallop Salad, 362. 



INDEX 



729 



Scallops, 107. 

Deep Shell, ixa. 
Fried, 112. 
Scones, Cream, 417. 
Service k la Russe, Detail of, 697. 
Serving au Gratin, 20. 
k la Tardini6re, 2 1 . 
Shad or White Fish, Planked, 95. 
Roe, Broiled, 95. 
Creamed, 343. 
Croquettes, 97. 
Curried, 343. 
Maryland Style, 98 
Salad, 362. 
Sherbet, Coffee, 614. 
Grape, 614. 
Orange, 614. 
Peach, 613. 
Preserved Fruit, 613. 
Sherbets, General Rtde (Water 

Ices), 601. 
Shortcake, Banana, 540. 
Strawberry, 540. 
Shortcake, 540. 
Shrimp Salad, 361. 
Shrimps, 116. 
Smelts, Boiled, 90. 
Fried, 96. 

Soda, 384, 387- 

Soda, Bicarbonate of, 358. 

Souffl6, Chicken, 256, 280. 
Cheese, 379. 

Souffle, Cocoanut, 545' 
Coffee, 543. 
Custard, 544. 
Lobster, 255. 
Macaroon, 544. 
Omelet, 545- 
Oyster, 255. 
Tongue, 280. 

Soup, Almond Milk, 649. 

White, 200. 
Chicken, 200. 
Consomm6, 199. 
Cream of Com, 207. 

Beans and Onions, 208. 

Mushroom, 207. 

Oyster, 208. 

Sorrel, 207. 
English Beef, 199. 
Gumbo, 211. 



Soup^-Continu'ed . 
Lettuce, 201. 
Ox-tail, 200. 
Sour Cherry, 214. 
Tomato, 201. 
Tomato and Pea, 202. 
Wine of Sago, 214. 
Kettle, The. 192. 
Making, Classification, etc., 

188-189. 
Stock, 191. 

Brown, 198. 

Bouillon, 198. 

Clearing of, 196. 

Fish, 197. 

Formula, for Standard, 
198. 

Kinds of, 195. 

Jellying of, 194. 

Materials Used in, 191- 
192. 

Proportion of Ingredi- 
ents, 195. 

Time of Cooking, 193. 

Vegetable, 197. 
Soups, Formula for Cream, 205. 
Garnishes for, 219. 

Balls, Chicken Liver, 
218. 

Balls, Egg, 215. 

Celery and Lettuce, 218. 

Custard Chicken ,217. 

Custard Royal ,215. 

Custard, White, 215. 

Noodles, 216. 

P^te^Chou, 218. 

Pearl Barley, 217. 

Puff P^te Croutons, 219. 

Quenelles, 218. 

Tapioca, Macaroni, 216. 

Chestnut Timbale, 216. 

Other Timbale, 217. 

Vegetables, 217. 

Yolks of Eggs, 215. 

Thickening for, 190. 
Spaghetti, Moulds Lined with, 

260. 
Spinach Balls, 310. 

k la Bechamel, 310. 
Cookery of, etc., 309. 
With Crown of Eggs, 309. 
With Sardines, 309. 



ISO 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Sponge in Bread Making, 401. 

Slackberry, 572. 

Grape, 513. 

Grape Juice, 349. 

Strawberry, 513. 
Springerlie, 452. 
Squabs, Broiled, 184, 6 <3. 
Squash. Served in Shell, 298. 

au Gratin, 298. 

Stuffed with Shrimp, Sum- 
mer, 298. 
Starch, Cookery of, 6. 

Digestion of, 7, 675, 676, 678. 

Solubility, etc., 01, 5-6. 
Stew, Brunswick, 211. 
Stewing, 16. 
Stirring, 19. 
Strawberry Cannelon Glac6. 617. 

Charlotte Glac^e, 611. 

Charlotte Russe, 521. 

Hearts, 491. 

Jam, 587. 

Telly, 510. 

Preserves, 584. 

Sauce, 553-555- 

Shortcake, 540. 

Sponge, 513. 

Tartlets, 491. 

Vol-au-Vent, 491. 
Strawberries, Canned, 589. 

French Fashion, 563. 
Succotash, 313. 
Sugar, Boiling of, 627. 

Degree of Boiling, 628, 

Spim, 537. 
Sultana Roll, Claret Sauce, 607 
Sweetbread, Croquettes, 252. 

Cucumber, etc.. Salad, 361. 

Cutlets, 252. 

Fried, 153. 

Larded and Baked, 153. 
Sweetbreads, Chaudfroid of, 283. 

Newburg, 345. 
Syllabub, Wine, 505. 

Lemon, 526. 
Syrup for Ices, 629. 

Without a Gauge, 629. 



Table, Covers and Linens, 691. 
Decorations, 694, 696, 



Table — Continued. 

Lighting the, 695. 

Seating Guests at. 689. 

Styles of, 691. 

Cook's Time, 38, 40. 

Of Proportions. 40-41. 

Of Weights and Measures, 
41,42. 
Tarts, Banberry, 489. 

Coffee, 492. 

Melba, 492. 
Tartlets, Strawberry, 491. 
Tea, Accompaniments of, 46. 

Ball, The. 47. 

Beef, 648. 

Composition of, 45. 

Concerning, 45. 

Flaxseed. 646. 

For Large Companies, 47. 

Iced, 47- 

Infusion, 46. 

Five O'clock, 706-707. 
Teas, 706. 
Terrapin. Concerning, 120. 

Mock, 249. 
Timbale Cases, Swedish, 272. 
Timbale, Cheese, 380. 

Chicken. 259, 263. 

Fish, 260. 

For Consomm^, 217. 

Pea. 312. 

Ham in Jelly, 279. 

Lobster in Jellv, 279. 
Toast, Cream, 412. 

Cream with Cheese, 412 

Milk, 411. 

Properly Made, 411. 

Tomato, 412. 
Tomato and Cheese Pudding. 316. 

Bisctiit, 406. 

Catsup, 594. 

Custard , Canned .316. 

TeHy, 277. 

Pimch,635. 

Salad, 236-255. 

Salad Stuffed, 256. 
Tomatoes , Broiled ,215. 

Scalloped with Onions, 314- 

Stewed. 314. 

Stuffed Carolina, 315. 

Sicilienne, 315. 

With Mushrooms, 323. 



INDEX 



731 



"Tossing," 20. 
Tripe, Broiled, 135. 

Cturied, 135. 

Poulette Style, 135. 

To Pickle, 134. 
Turkey, Boned and Roasted, 176. 

Galantine, 176-177. 

R6chauff^, 247. 

Roast, 163, 171. 

Stuffing, St. James, 173. 

Trussing, 169. 
Turkish Pilaf, 332. 
Turnip Balls, 304. 
Turnip Pur6e, 303. 
Turnips in Cream, 304. 
Turnips, Cookery of, 303. 
Turtle, Concerning, 119. 

Ragout, Green, 120. 

Scalloped, Green, 121. 



Veal, Composition, Cuts, etc., 146. 

Cutlets, 148. 

Fillet and Fricandeau, 148. 

Loaf, 150. 

Pot Pie, 149. 

Pressed, 151. 

Roasted, 147. 

Rolls k la Jardiniere, 269. 

Sweetbread, 152. 
Vegetables, Composition and 
Cooking, 284. 

Preparing Canned, 288. 

Salt in Boiling. 287. 

Season for, 659. 

Served with Fish, 682. 

Served with Roast Beef, etc., 
682. 

Steaming, 288. 
Venison , Cuts, etc . , 1 8 5 . 

Saddle, 185. 

Steak and Cutlets, 186. 



Vienna Cream Roll. 490. 
Vol-au-Vent, Shaping of, 486-487 
Strawberry ,491. 



^ W 

Wafers, Almond, 450. 
Graham, 450. 

Waffles, Com Meal and Rice, 419. 
Rich, 420. 
Sovu* Milk, 420. 

Water, Barley, 645. 

Cooking over Hot, 20. 
Currant and Tamarind, 646. 
Definition of, i . 
Expansion in Composition, 

^ 385. 

Pure Drinking, Essential, 44. 

Rice, 646. 

Simmering and Boiling, 9. 

Where Found, 4. 

Wheat Grain, Structure of, 393. 

Whey, Lemon, etc., 650. 

Whip, Royal Cream, 526. 

Wine, Dinner, Service of, 694. 

Wine, Grape, 59. 
Syllabub, 505. 



Yeast, 385-386. 
Bread, 396. 
Cake Made with, 426. 
In Bread Making, 395. 
Potato, 40 z. 
Cake, 395-396. 



Zwieback, 408. 









M 
~ 


'^ -4 












i^ C^ 1^ 










kwM 


^S! 








' 


*''^^^ 


nukmamaaaMgMi 




Ik 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








..^^.i^ ■= - : 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086758251 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 




m 



PRACTICAL COOKING 
AND SERVING 



A COMPLETE MANUAL OF HOW TO 
SELECT, PREPARE, AND SERVE FOOD 



BY 



JANET McKENZIE HILL 

EDITOR OF " THE BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL MAGAZINE " 

AUTHOR OF "SALADS, SANDWICHES, AND 

CHAFING-DISH DAINTIES " 



friTH MANT ILLUSTRATIONS 




NEW YORK 
DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY 

190S 



Copyright, igo2, by 

Doubleday, Page & Company 

Publiibed October, 19DZ 



"Certainly," replied the oracle, "study the art of pleasing by dress 
and manner as long as you are of an age to interest us; and, above all, 
let all women, pretty and plain, married and single, study the art of 
cookery. If you are an artist in the kitchen, you will always be 
esteemed. Only be careful, in studying both arts, never to forget the 
great truth that dinner precedes blandishments, and not blandishments 
dinner. '' 

Elizabeth and Her German Garden. 

I REGARD the discovery of a dish a far more interesting event than the 
discovery of a star, for we have already stars enough, but we can never 
have too many dishes; and I shall not regard the sciences as sufficiently 
honored or adequately represented among us until I see a cook in the 
first dass of the [French] Institute. 

HouRiON DE Penesey (o learned French judge). 



PREFACE 

This book is designed to be something more than a com-' 
pilation of recipes — though recipes make up a large portion 
of its contents. Cookery is a necessary art, and an art that 
is worthy the attention of the most intelligent and cultivated 
women of the land. How few women realize that the warp 
and woof of our 'muscular and nervous systems are woven 
out of the food we eat, or that food even more than environ- 
ment makes or mars the individual. 

In the arrangement of subject matter into chapters, the 
time-honored divisions into bread, soups, eggs, fish, etc., 
have been retained, though this plan is not strictly scien- 
tific. In the secondary grouping of topics in the various 
chapters, an attempt has been made, as far as possible, to 
classify the matter in a systematic and scientific manner. 
The relation between the various subdivisions, and their 
interdependence not only upon each other, but alsO upon 
divisions made in other parts of the volume, is shown. In 
this and other respects we claim that the book is a step in 
advance on all preceding works on cookery — from which 
we hereby acknowledge we have" drawn inspiration and aid. 

The remark has been made recently by an authority on 
the subject that " a good cook does not need recipes. " This 
is, perhaps, in accordance with the idea that cooks, like poets, 
are born and not made. But while a grain of truth may lie 
hidden in this statement, still there is room for misunder- 
standing, and a well-founded difference of opinion. In the 
science and art of cookery we are dealing with materials 
that cannot be said to have a fixed value; yet the effects of 
heat and moisture, at varying degrees of temperature, and 
the several combinations necessary to secure definite results 
under ordinary circumstances, may become as thorotighly 
fixed in mind as the multiplication table or the declension 



viii PREFACE 

of nouns. A cook with this fundamental knowledge under- 
stands the relation between a sauce thickened with roux, a 
custard souffle, an ice cream thickened with starchy material, 
and many an entree. She knows the probable value, or 
jellying quality, of a certain quantity of starch or gelatine, 
and with no fear of failure she adds whipped white of egg, 
or cream, to the remnants of a fruit jelly to produce, respect- 
ively, a charlotte or a Bavarian cream, and thus formulates 
recfpes to make use of the materials she has on hand. 

But while the majority of girls in America become pro- 
ficient in mathematics before the age of fifteen, as yet it is 
only the favored few who receive any systematic training in 
the principles of cookery; and hence there still seems to be 
a demand for reliable formulas in accordance with which 
food materials may be successfully combined. Then, again, 
progress is made in cookery as in other arts, and what is 
considered a good method of procedure to-day may be much 
improved upon to-morrow. For these and other excellent 
rea,sons we have endeavored to note and to illustrate the 
latest and best in.manipulation and appliance that pertaineth 
to the culinary art. 

Recipes are given for simple every-day dishes and also for 
such as are in demand on the most formal occasions. To 
insure accuracy, it is to be noted that in all recipes where 
flour is used, unless otherwise stated, the flour is measured 
after sifting once. When flour is measured by cups, the 
cup is filled with a spoon, and a level cupful is meant. A 
tablespoonful or a teaspoonful of any designated material is 
a level spoonful of such material. 

The recipes are of dishes prepared by the author during 
an experience of twenty years in housekeeping; these are 
supplemented by dishes prepared to illustrate demonstra- 
tions in cookery given before classes of housekeepers in 
New England, the Middle West and the South. 

A few formulae are favorite recipes donated by cooking 
teachers, cooks and housekeepers .of note in various sections 
of the country. A part of these have been tried by the 
author and found excellent; others have not been so tested, 



PREFACE ix 

but in all cases the name accompanying the recipe is guar- 
anty of the quality of the dish. Many of these recipes appear 
now for the first time in print; others have been published 
in the Boston Cooking School Magazine, and still others ,have 
accompanied illustrations by the author in The Ladies' Home 
Journal. As the main idea in The Journal was pictorial 
rather than literary, the details of combination were not 
dwelt upon in that publication; these are here, together 
with the illustrations, 'now made complete. 

Recognizing the fact that names were originally given 
to food combinations for specific reasons, which still have 
meaning to the initiated, an atttoipt has been made to pre- 
serve the original names of dishes, and to avoid designating 
at random other combinations, which are founded upon the 
original or derivative idea. 

In respect to the illustrations, the fact that a dish presents 
an attractive appearance does not argue necessarily that it 
is expensive. A simple mold of pink rhubarb jelly, sur- 
rounded with whipped cream, presents an elegant or showy 
appearance, yet with rhubarb at two cents per pound and 
sugar at six the dish could not be considered too elaborate 
or expensive for occasional use. The difference in cost of 
materials and time expended is not so great that it should 
be considered burdensome to present a dish finished with a 
sprig of parsley, a curl of bacon, one or two toast points, or, 
occasionally, as in the case of a sweet, with half a cup of 
whipped cream. If the habit of making all dishes attractive 
be once acquired, the extra time will not be noted or the 
effort given a thought. 

Of the illustrations, some are given to make plain the 
different processes in cooking, or to show' the utensils 
used in the several operations. Others are given as a 
guide in serving — i. e., to show how the finished dish should 
appear. 

Dainty serving is intimately connected with dainty cook- 
ing. In fact, it is the climax of the art of cookery. Though 
hints on serving will be found scattered throughout the 
volume, a special chapter is devoted to garnishing and serv- 



X PREFACE 

ing, and another to the art of hospitality and the etiquette 
of entertaining. 

Taking into consideration the present large and rapidly 
increasing number of women who are interested in providing 
a well-balanced dietary for their families, the chemical 
composition of the various food products, as given in the 
bulletin prepared by Professor Atwater for the United States 
Department of Agriculture, has been presented at the head of 
the respective chapters. To follow the laboratory standards 
accurately, as these are given for different classes and ages 
of individuals, calls for more time and appliances than the 
average housekeeper has at her command. Indeed, this will 
not be attempted in daily life, except occasionally, unless by 
specialists ; nor is this in any sense a necessity. But a study 
of these tables, in connection with the matter in Chapter I., 
Part I., and in Chapters II, and IV., in Part III., will enable 
the thoughtful housekeeper, in planning her weekly bills of 
fare, to secure, approximately, the right proportions of the 
various food principles, or, if she wills to do so, as accu- 
rately as in the work of the specialist. 

But we believe that a woman's duty does not end in the 
selection of food containing the proper proportions of the 
various food principles. What does it avail to select wisely 
if in cooking we lose. the nutritive value originally found in 
the product, or if, through monotony in manner of prepara- 
tion, the food fail to be assimilated ? 

That the careful use of this book may enable the thought- 
ful mistress or maid to take the most common and inexpen- 
sive food products and so prepare them as to bring out and 
conserve their latent and nutritive qualities of juiciness and 
flavor, and at the same time render them pleasing to the 
eye and acceptable to the palate, is the earnest desire of 
the author. 



CONTENTS 

PART I 

"Tutor'd in the rudiments. " 

I will tell you the beginning, and if it please your ladyships, you 
may see the end. — As You Like It, i, i. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Definition of Food. Object in Cooking Food. The 

Kitchen Range. Food Principles . . . . i 

II. Cooking of Starch and Albumin .... 6 

III. Elementary Processes of Cooking . . . . lo 

IV. Processes and Terms used in Cooking . . . i ig 
V. Cook's Time Table. Tables of Proportions, "Weights 

and Measttres 36 

PART II 

If a man or a woman has not the soul of a cook, the most 
■ minute recipe will only end in failure. — Kettner. 

I. Beverages 43 

II. Eggs 61 

III. Fish and Its Cookery. Frogs and Terrapin . . 80 

IV. Beef, Mutton, Veal, Lamb, Pork .... 122 
V. Poultry and Game 163 

VI. Soups and Soup Making 188 

VII. Sauces 220 

VIII. ComplexMeatandFishDishes, Entr^es,Rechauff6s,etc. 244 

IX. Vegetables and Their Cookery . . . . 284 

X. Com Plants used as Breakfast Food and Vegetables 326 

XI. Chafing Dish Cookery and Service . . . -339 

XII. Salads, Sandwiches and Hors-d'CEuvres . . .35° 

XIII Cheese and What Can be Done With It . . -375 

XIV. Batters and Doughs 3^4 

xi 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER 

XV. Bread and Bread Making .... 

XVI. Cake and Cake Making .... 

XVII. Cake Icings and Decorations 

XVIII. Pastry and Pies 

XIX. Puddings and Dessert Dishes 

XX. Cold Dessert Dishes 

XXI. Hot Puddings, etc. 

XXII. ■ Sweet Sauces 

XXIII. Fruit, Fresh and Cooked, for Immediate Use 

XXIV. The Preservation of Fruit 

XXV. Frozen Desserts 

XXVI. BoiUng Sugar. Candy Making 

XXVII. Food for the Sick and Convalescent 



PAGE 

391 

421 

458 
470 

493 
498 
529 
548 

5S7 

s;8 
596 

627 
640 



PART III 



The pleasure of the table is peculiar to the human species; it sup- 
poses antecedent attention to the preparation of the repast. 

— Hayward. 



I. Marketing. Care of Food, and Cooking Utensils 

II. Office of Food in the Body 

III. Referring to a Well-balanced Dietary 

IV. The Physiology of Digestion 
V. Suggestions on Garnishing and Serving 

VI. Hospitality and the Etiquette of Entertaining 

VII. Menus for Occasions 



656 
664 
668 
674 
679 
6S4 
709 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Apple Charlotte 

Apples, Duchess Style 
Apple with Gluten, Cherries, etc., Baked 
Apple with Junket, etc. 
Apples with Sauce, Blushing 
Asparagus Salad in Jelly- 
Banana Shortcake .... 
Bavarian Cream, Apricot with Snow Eggs 
Bavarian Cream,. Pineapple . 
Bavarian Cream with Prunes, Rice . 
Beans, Boston Baked .... 
Beans, Boston Baked, Ready for Baking 
Beef, Cannelon of, with Macaroni 
Beef Cutlets, Ragout of Macaroni with 
Beef au Gratin, Creamed Corned . 
Beef, Rib Roast of 
Beefsteak, Sirloin 
Biscuit, Oatmeal . 
Blackberry Sponge 
Bonbons 

Boned and Stuffed Fowl, Larded 
Bread and Moulds, Brown 
Bread, Entire Wheat 
Bread Making, Utensils for 
Bread with Raisins, Boston Brown 
Breadstick Pan and Breadsticks . 
Cabbage Salad . . 
Cabinet Pudding with Jelly, Hot 
Cake, Birthday, with Candles 
Cake Covered with Almond Icing 
Cake Decorated with Fruit and Lady Fingers 
Cake Making, Utensils for 
Cakes, Small Chocolate, Marshmallow Frosting 
Cake Tins 



PACING PAGE 



570 
570 
328 

644 
570 
354 

45^ 
S18 
518 
522 
162 
162 
126 
262 

254 
126 
130 
408 

572 
630 
22 
398 
398 
398 
416 
408 
364 
540 
436 
452 
436 
424 

456 
424 



ziU 



xiv PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Casserole, French . 
Casserole, Japanese 
Celery with Cheese au Gratin 
Celery and Orange Salad 
Chafing Dish Fork and Spoon 
Charlotte Moulds and Double Moulding 
Charlotte Russe, Individual Strawberry 
Charlotte Russe with Salpicon of Fruit 
Chaudrfoid of Mutton Chops 
Chaudfroid of Tongue with Aspic Jelly 
Cheese Balls ..... 

Cheese Cakes with Cherries . . 
Cheese Croquettes with Paper Aigrettes 
Cheese Service, Suggestions for 
Cheese Straws and Rings 
Cherries with Crusts .... 
Chicken Aspic, Timbales of Ham in . 
Chicken Cutlets, Cress Salad and Mayonnaise 
Chicken Cutlets, Parker House Style 
Chicken Dressed for Broiling 
Chicken Forcemeat with Quenelles, Shells of 
Chicken, Fillets of, with Mushrooms . 
Chicken Glad with Cress Salad, Cream of 
Chicken, Pressed ..... 
Chicken Salad in Rolls 
Chicken Saut^ with Cauliflower . 
Chicken Soup with Breadsticks 
Chicken, Stewed, with Asparagus 
Chicken, Timbales .... 
Chocolate Eclairs, Horseshoe Shape 
Chocolate Puffs ..... 
Chops, Rib, Frenched, Loin 
Chops with Spinach, Broiled Mutton . 
Chopper, Enterprise .... 
Cocoa Frappd, Whipped Cream . 
Codfish Baked with Forcemeat, Boned 
Codfish Balls, Salt .... 
Corn Custard with Broiled Tomatoes . 
Cranberry Pie ..... 
Cream Beaten Solid with Egg Beater . 
Cream Ice in Muskmelon . 
. Cream, "Whip Chum with Frothed 



FACING PAGE 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



XV 



Cress and Egg Salad .... 
Croquettes, Egg or Easter 
Croquettes, Shaping .... 
Crown of Lamb, Roast 
Custards Renvers^e, Individual . 
Cutters for Balls, French Vegetable . 
Desserts, Materials for . 

Double Boiler 

Duck, Wild, Trussed for Roasting 

Easter Pudding 

Eggs, Stuffed au Gratin . 

Eggs, Stuffed, for Picnics . 

Eggs, Poached, with Spinach 

Egg, Poached, with Anchovy Paste . 

Egg, Shirred, in Cocotte . 

Egg, Shirred, in China Case 

Eggs Shirred with Mashed Potato 

Eggs, Salpicon of, in Patty Shells 

Egg3, Soft Boiled, with Stuffed Tomatoes 

Eggs, Soft Boiled, Sicilian Fashion 

Egg, Souffi^d . . . . 

Egg and Tomato Jelly Salad 

Eggs, Utensils for Beating 

Endive Salad ..... 

Fillet of Flounder Served in Silver Casserole 

Fillets of Flounder with Green Peas 

Finger Biscuit with Pistachio Nuts 

Fish k la Crfeme in Paper Cases . 

Fondant Making 

Fowl, Steamed, on Mound of Rice with Mushrooms 

Fruit Cup 

Frying, Scotch Bowl for , 

Galantine of Turkey, Sliced . 

Gnocchi k la Romaine 

Haddock, Stuffed and Baked 

Halibut, Baked, Garnish of Oyster Croquettes 

Halibut Steaks Baked with Oysters . 

Halibut, Turbans of, with Potato Balls 

Ham Baked with Cider 

Ham, Cold Boiled, Sliced . 

Ham Croutons ..... 

Ham Timbales with Chicken Aspic 



PACINQ PAGE 

3S8 



xvi PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Hand}' Slicer 

Hors il'Oeuvres, Materials for 

Invalid's Tray 

Lace Papers "for Sweet Dishes 

Lemon Fanchonettes 

Lemon Queens 

Lobster Cutlets 

Lobster Sandwiches 

Macaroni in Cheese Shell, Creamed 

Macaroni and Cheese with Welsh Rabbit 

Macaroon Souffle . 

Macedoine of Fruit and Nuts 

Measuring Cup 

Meringues, Mushroom . 

Meringues with Cream and Strawberries 

Motilds for Entries and Sweets 

Mould, Individual Basket 

Moulds, Melon, Brick and Bombe 

Moulds, Strawberry 

Muffins, Twin Mountain 

Muffins and Waffles with Utensils 

Mushrooms Cooked Under Glass 

Oatmeal with Figs and Cream 

Omelet with Macaroni and Tomato Sauce 

Orange Sections in Orange Jelly . 

Orange Sherbet in Orange Shells 

Oranges, Ways to Serve 

Othellos 

Oysters in Green Peppers, Creamed 
Oyster Salad in Ice Bowl . 
Oysters, Scalloped 
Pastry Bag and Tubes 
Pastry Baked on Inverted Tin . 
Pastry, Utensils for Making 
Patty Cutter, French Fluted 
Patties Filled with Asparagus Tips 
Peach Mousse . . . ' . 
Peach and Rice Meringue . 
Peaches, Pyramid of . . . 
Pears with Rice, Compote of, Stuffed 
Pigeons Stewed in Broth . 
Pineapple Omelet 



FACING PAGE 

366 
640 
496 
480 
462 
118 
366 

544 
508 
22 
456 
456 
246 

596 
596 
596 
416 
416 

318 

328 

78 

508 

596 
560 

436 

366 

362 

90 

30 
472 
472 
472 
476 
628 
574 
572 
57-: 
184 

540 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



XVll 



Pineapple and Strawberries in Pineapple Shell 

Plum Pudding k la David Harum 

Potatoes, Baked, in the Half Shell 

Potato Garnishes 

Potato Nests, Filled . 

Potato Nests, Utensils for Making 

Pumpkin Pie .... 

Pur^e Sieve and Pestle 

Quail, Boned, with Pur^e of Peas 

Quick-cut Chopping Knife . 

Raspberries with Rice Croquettes 

Rhubarb Jelly and Banana Cream 

Saddle of Mutton, Roasted . 

Salad, Bird's Nest 

Salad Plants and Salad Making 

Salmon, Boiled, Potato Balls and Cress 

Salmon, Chartreusse 

Salmon and Eggs in Curry Sauce 

Salmon Salad 

Salpicon of Fruit in Grape Fruit Basket 

Sardines with Spinach and Eggs 

Sauces, Utensils for Making 

Sausage with Apple Sauce . 

Savarin ..... 

Scallop Salad .... 

Scandinavian Rosettes, Frying of 

Shad, Planked .... 

Shad Roe-and-Cucumber Salad 

Spatula, Perforated Spoon, etc. . 

Spinach in Crown of Eggs . 

Springerlie and Springerlie Mould 

Squash, Steamed and Served in Shell 

Strawberry Bombe Glacd . 

Strawberry Cannelon Glac^ 

Strawberry Charlotte Glac^ 

Strawberry Shortcake . 

Strawberry Souffle, Frappd 

Strawberry Sponge ' . 

Strawberry Vol-au-Vent 

"Strawberries', Sugar and Cream' 

Sugar Spinning 

Sultana Roll, Claret Sauce . 



FACING PAGE 

544 
294 
308 
294 
294 
480 
246 
272 
246 
574 

138 
358 
Frontispiece 

94 
90 

342 
354 
564 
118 
22 

158 
424 
362 
544 
94 
362 
328 
308 

452 
308 
616 
624 
596 
540 
624 

512 
480 
56® 
628 
606 



xviii PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Swedish Rolls ...... 

Swedish Timbale Cases .... 

Swedish Timbale Iron .... 

Sweetbreads, Baked, Touraine Style . 
Syrup Gauge in Test Tube of Syrup . 
Table, Christjnas Dinner for Children . 
Table, Christmas Dinner, Evergreen Decorations 
Table, Dinner, first course .... 

Table, Family Breakfast .... 

Table, Family Luncheon. No Maid in Attendance 

Table Laid for Sunday Night Tea 

Table Laid for Reception or Tea 

Table, Luncheon, Centrepiece of Sweet Peas 

Table, Luncheon, Served from the Side 

Table, Luncheon, with Fringed Doilies 

Tongue Moulded in Aspic Jelly 

Tray for Five O'clock Tea .... 

Turkey Garnished with Sausage and Celery 
Tui-key Trussed for Roasting, Showing Tendons 
Turkey Trussed for Roasting, Back of , 
Veal Loaf Ready for Baking 
Vol-au-Vent Baked Over a Form 
Watermelon in Wedge Slices 



PACING PAGE 
408 



472 

628 
710 
710 
692 
656 
656 
704 
704 
672 
692 
672 
278 
706 
180 
168 
-168 
126 
476 
564 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND 
SERVING 



PART I 

CHAPTER I 

Definition of Food, Object in Cooking Food. 
TFie Kitcimen Range. Food Principles. 

'"Three things are essential to life: ait, water and food; and the 
order in which these are named expresses their relative importance to 
life."— Hoy. 

Without air we suffocate at once, without water we may- 
live from two to seven days, and without food from seven 
to forty days. Oftentinties the term ' ' food ' ' is made to include 
both air and water, but a true food by its oxidation in the 
body liberates force and produces heat; air and water are in 
reality simply a means to this end, but of themselves undergo 
no chemical alteration in digestion, liberate no force and 
produce no heat. Water acts as a solvent and a carrier of 
nutritive and waste materials, and by its evaporation on the 
surface of the body controls the heat produced by^the oxida- 
tion of true food. Some knowledge of the part that both air 
and water play in the economy of nature is essential to a 
proper understanding of the subject of food, and the study of 
chemistry should precede and accompany the study of 
cookery. In short, there is scarcely any branch of learning, 
from which the art of cookery does not demand tribute. 

Food is that (liquid or solid) which satisfies htinger and replaces 
the solid waste of the body.— Hoy. 

Water is that which slakes thirst and replaces the fluid loss of the 
body. — Hoy. 

I 



2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Food, in order to replace the waste of the body, needs contain 
such elements, in combination, as are found in the body sub- 
stance; these complex substances are found in the material 
world around us. There are various ways in which changes 
in the natural condition of these material substances may 
be brought about so as to make them better adapted to 
satisfy hunger and replace waste. The principal of these 
is by cooking. In cooking we apply heat and often moisture 
to food products in such manner that they are made more 
digestible (soluble and diffusible) either directly, as when 
starch is changed to dextrine, or tough and fibrous substances 
are softened and thus rendered easily divisible; or, indirectly, 
through the development of new and pleasing odors and 
flavors that excite the flow of the digestive fluids. Cooking 
also sterilizes food. 

THE KITCHEN RANGE 

Fire is one of the first essentials in cooking food. Fire 
for this purpose is usually confined in a cooking stove or 
range. Outside the modem accessories of warming oven, 
water tank, front or coil, the common cooking range consists 
of a rectangular iron box divided into three compartments, 
viz., fire-box, ash-box and oven. The fire-box is lined with 
fire-brick and is separated from the receptacle below, which 
holds a pan for waste products, by a grate. The oven occupies 
the rest of the box, and with the lids or covers on the top 
is the principal feature of the range. Means are provided 
to convey hot air entirely around the oven before it enters the 
flue or chimney. The fire is regulated and controlled by 
dampers; these admit air to the burning fuel, check the 
strength of the draft (of air) and control the circulation of 
•heat about the oven. 

HOW TO BUILD A FIRE 

The ash-pan is empty; the flue about the oven clean — the 
ash-pan needs be emptied each day and the flue cleaned 
each month — the draft below the fire-box is open, the damper 
that opens or closes the flue is drawn, affording free draft 



BUILDING A FIRE 3 

to the chimney, and the covers over the fire-box are lifted. 
Everything being in readiness, the fire may be built. First 
put into the fire-box a generous layer of shavings, or wisps 
of paper twisted in the middle so that they may lie loosely 
in the box; above these put in, crosswise, short pieces of soft 
wood that lights readily, and then, in the same way, pieces 
of hard wood that burns more slowly ; above these put one or 
two shovelfuls of coal. Coyer the top of the range, and apply 
a lighted match between the bars of the grate to the shavings 
or paper: when the wood is fairly ignited, add coal to fill the 
fire-box nearly even to the top of the bricks. The coal will 
settle down as the kindling burns. The fire-box should not 
be kept more than three-fourths full ; much less coal even will 
do the work in a family of ordinary size. When the blue flame 
disappears, close the stove door, leaving the damper in the 
door open. Adjust the damper in flue to send the current of 
hot air round the oven, instead of directly up the chim- 
ney. To check the flre still further, close the damper in the 
door, and open check-draft above; this lets in a current of 
cold air above the burning coal, and thus gently diminishes 
the strength of the draft. To keep a steady fire, add a few 
pieces of coal, occasionally, as the top coals begin to -glow. 
After coal has once become glowing red in colour it begins 
to part with its strength. Keep in mind that air below a 
fire causes it to burn briskly; air above cools and deadens a 
fire; also the fact that most food is subjected to too much 
rather than too little heat. 

THE FIVE FOOD PRINCIPLES 

Now, there are in every food product certain compounds 
upon which its food value almost entirely depends, and there 
is danger that the full nutritive value of these may not be 
retained in the process of cooking. Then, too, we have 
become accustomed to combine, in cooking, materials that are 
widely different in chemical composition. All this tends to 
make the process of cookery very complex. As, for instance, 
in making an English cream, in which cornstarch, or flour, 
and eggs are used. ' Starchy substances are made more soluble 



4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

(digestible) by long cooking at a modei'a;te temperature, 'or 
by shorter cooking at a high temperature, while albumen is 
made less soluble by heat. If the eggs be added with the 
starch, one constituent of the cream will be sacrificed, and 
the chances are that it will be the most valuable of the two, 
including also the vegetable albumen of the vegetable com- 
pound. Hence, if cooking is to be conducted successfully, 
the composition of the product in hand must be accurately 
known, and the effects of the heat, at different temperattires, 
and of moisture, upon the various constituents must be clearly 
understood. 

The several compounds that enter into the composition 
of our food products may be grouped under five heads, 
as follows : 



The Five Pood 

Principles 
or Compoundfei 



"Protein Of ("Albufninoids. 

Nitrogenous -^ i r^ ■ 

Compounds. L Gelatinoids. J Gelatine. 

Carbohvdrates. ( Collagen. 



Carbohydrates. 

Fats. 

Mineral matter. 

Water. 



Relating to cookery, the distinction between albuminoids 
and gelatinoids is worthy of attention, in that the former 
are made leSs soluble by heat and the latter, of which 
gelaiune and collagen are the most important, more soluble. 

WHERE THESE COMPOUNDS ARE FOUND 

Water is found in all kinds of food, but largely in fruits and 
vegetables; in cooking these the water, which has been lost 
by evaporation (as in dried beans, etc.), needs be restored. 

Under the head of mineral matter are grouped iron, sulphur, 
lime, potash, magnesia, chloride of sodium, etc. Some one 
or more of these are found in all natural products, especially 
in vegetables, milk, and meat. When vegetables are cooked 
in water and the water is thrown away, these, oftentimes the 
most valuable constituents present, and other soluble elements 
are lost. 



FOOD COMPOUNDS 5 

Butter, cream, vegetable oils, and the fat oi meat, visible 
and invisible, represent the fats. 

The carbohydrates are known principally as starch and 
sugar. Discarding the woody fibre, which envelops and 
forms the framework of vegetables and which is in reality 
a form of starch, starch is their most important constituent. 

The cereals contain from sixty to seventy per cent, of starch. 
J[t is also present in the leaves and stems of plants. In rice 
seventy-six pounds in one hundred are pure starch. 

Common sugar is a chief constituent of sugar-cane apd a 
few other grasses ; it is found alsg in the juices of some roots, 
as beet, and occasionally in the juices of trees; milk sugar 
is fpund in the milk of cows and other mammalia and grape 
sugar in ripened fruit. 

The nitrogenous food compounds, protein, are the most 
important, because they are the only compounds that con- 
tain nitrogen. Of these the albuminoids have precedence in 
point of value. White of egg, which is nearly pure albunaen, 
is the type of this group ; to this same group belong the casein- 
of milk, the musculin of animal flesh, the gluten of wheat and 
the legumin of peas, beans, and lentils. From bones, car- 
tilage, and connective tissue, boiled in water, are set free 
nitrogenous compounds that form with the water a jelly- 
like mass. These are the gelatines. 

The chief constituent of connective tissues is collagen, 
which is soluble in hot water and yields gelatine. It is partly 
due to collagen that a steak puffs up while cooking, and this 
is the substance in the steak that is made tender by soaking 
in vinegar; when meat is kept, bacterial action gives rise 
also to acid secretions that soften the collagen. 



CHAPTER II 

The Cooking of Starch and Albumen 

The nitrogenous and carbohydrate principles are the two 
with which in cooking we have most to do. Albumen and 
starch represent these. An egg is almost pure albumen, 
while a potato is largely starch. When the conditions in- 
volved in the cooking of these two articles are well under- 
stood, a firm foundation upon which to build the future 
structure of cookery has been laid. 

THE COOKING OF STARCH 

If potatoes be pared and allowed to stand in cold water, 
some of the starch granules of the potato will settle to the 
bottom of the dish. These granules will remain to all outward 
appearance unchanged, even if they stand hours in the water. 
That is, starch is not soluble in cold water. Solubility and 
digestibility are practically synonymous terms, for all solid 
food material needs to become soluble before it can pass 
through the walls of the digestive system and be assimilated. 

Prehistoric man was undoubtedly endowed with strong 
digestive powers, and was able, to some extent at least, to 
digest uncooked starch, but civilized man needs all the aid 
that cookery can devise, to render the starch in his food 
soluble. 

Upon the application of heat the wrinkled exterior of the 
hydrated, or water-soaked starch granules becomes distended 
and bursts, and if the granules be stirred during this process 
their delicate walls are broken down and a pasty mass results, 
which, when dry, is soluble in either cold or hot water. Such 
starch is readily digestible. 

But starch to be assimilated, must not only be soluble, 
,it must be changed by the ptyalin of the saliva and the .gastric 

6 



COOKING STARCH AND ALBUMEN 7 

juice into sugar, which, as soon as formed, may be absorbed 
into the circulatory system. This change may be partially 
brought about outside of the digestive apparatus and at a 
saving of energy on the part of the digestive organs, Of 
course, any approximation' to this result would be of gain to 
the individual. This change is produced outside of the 
human body by subjecting starch to a high degree of heat. 
If ordinary dry starch granules be heated to a temperature 
of about 400° and kept there some ten minutes, they become 
brown in color, and, if mixed with water, they form a gumrtiy 
solution, which does not change color, as does starch, when 
subjected to the iodine test. These granules are ho longer 
starch, but dextrine; they are now in a condition to be easily 
changed into sugar and assimilated by the system. 

We see, at once, why baked, rather than boiled, potatoes 
are given to a child or an invalid. A potato boiled in water 
can attain a temperature no higher than the water in which 
it is cooked, viz. 212°. So that, though the starch- be' made 
soluble, it is not changed, as it is in a potato that is baked 
in an oven at a temperature of nearly 400° Fahr. The same 
is true in the baking of bread, and this is one reason why 
bread should be baked in small loaves. The intense heat 
of the oven changes the starch upon the outside to dextrine, 
but fails to change the starch throughout the loaf, on account 
of the la,rge amount of moisture contained in it, which reduces 
the temperature somewhat. 

Then, in cooking starch, long cooking at a moderate tem- 
perature, or cooking at a sufficiently high temperature to 
change a portion' of the starch to dextrine is desirable. 

THE COOKING OF ALBUMEN 

Let us ever keep in mind that digestibility and solubility 
are nearly synonymous terms in cookery. The albumen of 
egg is soluble in cold water. In water, at 134° Fahr. white 
fibres appear throughout, and at 160° Fahr. the albumen 
has coagulated throughout the egg, but is still tender and 
jelly-like, and, being soluble, has lost little in digestibility. 
Now, when the hard state of an egg that has been cooked in 



8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

boiling water (212° Fahr.) and the horny and still harder 
state of the egg that has been fried at 300° Fahr. is con- 
sidered, it must be plain that albumen in eggs loses in solubility 
(digestibility) as the temperature to which it is subjected 
is jraised. Whatever is true in 'respect to the cooking of 
albumen in eggs, is equally true in respect to the cooking of 
albumen in meat and fish, and the corresponding substance 
in the gluten oi grains and the casein of milk and cheese. 
In general, sentiment, or taste, demands, at least, a slight 
.coagulation of the albuminous juices in articles of food, but 
any cookery that carries this coagulation beyond the jellying 
stage is wasteful of product and of digestive energy. The 
" cooking point " of albumen, then, does not correspond to the 
boiling point of water; it is below this point. In actual 
practice it is a temperature between 160° and 180" Fahr. 
This point can be approximately secured and maintained, 
when substances are cooked in water kept at the simmering 
point, 185° Fahr., or when they are cooked in a double boiler. 
Albumen, as stated above, is found in the juices of flesh; 
these juices are stored up in hollow fibres bound together by 
connective tissues. When these fibres are cut through the 
juices are exposed, and if the meat be put into cold water, 
or into water or an oven below a temperature of about 134° 
Fahr., the juices containing the albumen are drawn out and 
dissolved in the water, or evaporated in the oyen. They are 
withdrawn from the meat, which thus becomes poorer in 
quality and less nutritious. 

But if the meat be put into boiling water or a hot oven, 
the albumen in the fibres hardens or coagulates at once and 
closes the pores, or mouths, through which the juices must 
pass out ; from five to fifteen minutes' cooking at this temper- 
ature suffices to form a thick coating over the cut surface 
and to keep the nutritions juices within the meat. This is 
the key to the proper method of cooking meat or fish. 

When these are to be cooked, as for soups or stews, and the 
nutritive juices are to be drawn out into the water, they 
should be set to cook in cold water. When these are to be 
served as boiled meats, or roasts, and the nutritious juices 



SIMMERING AND BOILING 9 

are to be retained, the meat should be subjected, at the 
outset, to a high temperature, viz. that of boiling water, a 
very hot oven, or to the direct rays of the fire. But when once 
the initial process has been accomplished, the cooking of 
/both must be completed at such a temperature as will insure 
a tender, jelly-like consistency throughout; that is, the tem- 
perature of the soup kettle should be raised, while that of 
the boiling or roasting meat should be lowered to the simmer- 
ing point of water. 

The cooking of albumen or starch, ■W'hen each is cooked 
separately, is a simple matter; the difficulty arises when the 
two are combined in the same dish. 

SIMMERING AND BOILING WATER 

When water is heated the air in it expands (bubbles seen 
on the bottom of the dish) rises and passes off. The heat now 
begins to change the water into an invisible gas, forming 
bubbles which are larger than the air bubbles. A^ they come 
near the surface they are cooled and burst, changing back 
into water. This bubbling below the surface is called simmer- 
ing. The temperature of such water is about 185° Fahr. 
As the water grows hotter, part of the bubbles reach the 
surface, and there give off puffs of steam. The temperature 
is now 212° Fahr. By increasing the heat the water may 
be made to boil furiously, but the temperature will not rise 
higher; the extra heat is all used in turning the water into 

steam. 

One of the first essentials to proper cookery is the ability 
to distinguish between simmering and boiling water. 



CHAPTER III 



Elementary Processes of Cooking 



' Broiling. 
Roasting or Baking of Meat or Fish. 

(Suitable for tender meat.) | Saut6ing. 

^ Frying. 

Boiling. (Suitable for either tender or ) 



Over Coals. 
Pan Broiling 



tough meat. ) 



( Braising. 
ROASTING AND BAKING 



Roasting and boiling are the most primitive ways in 
which heat is applied in cooking; other methods are derived 
from these. Of these roasting and its derivatives are the most 
esteemed. This is on account of the appetizing flavors 
analogous to that of caramel, which are brought out by the 
high temperature to which the article is subjected. In 
roasting, flesh is exposed to the direct rays of an open fire, 
but similar results can be obtained by heat reflected from the 
hot sides of a well-ventilated oven. As the latter method 
is the one in common use in this country, the words roasting 
and baking are herein used as synonymous. As roasted and 
broiled meats, save poultry, are usually served at least a 
little underdone, this method of cooking is admissible only 
for tender meats, time being a necessary factor when tough 
connective tissues are to be made soluble. 

First wipe the outside of the joint, or the inside of 
poultry, with a damp cloth ; then set on the rack in a dripping- 
pan of ample size. Have the rack smaller than the pan that 
the drippings for basting the joint may be gotten at easily. 
Let the pan stand in a very hot oven (a little hotter than for 
bread) about fifteen minutes to sear over the outside and 

lO 



ROASTING AND BROILING 



II 



imprison the nutritious juices, then close the drafts, move 
the pan to a cooler part of the oven, and, if necessary to 
avoid burning, add a little hot water to the fat that has 
already dripped from the joint. To keep the meat from 
drying, spread over it every ten or fifteen minutes, the smaller 
the joint or article the oftener, the fat in the pan. Poultry 
and game, deficient in fat, must have this supplied in some 
form. A small roast may be seared over in a frying-pan; 
if this be done, less heat is required in the oven. 

BROILING 

In broiling or grilling, as in roasting proper, the article to 
be cooked is exposed to the direct rays of the fire, but in 
broiling we are dealing with thin pieces of meat, or viands, 
dressed to present as much surface as possible to the heat; 
when properly cooked, the outside is slightly crusted over, 
while the inside is but delicately cooked. To secure this 
result the article is set about three inches from the coals, or 
fuel at first, and is turned every ten seconds. The strong 
heat hardens the albumen in the ends of the hollow fibres 
and confines the juices ; by frequent turning burning is avoided, 
and both sides are cooked evenly. After the surface of the 
meat is well seared over, it should be withdrawn to a greater 
distance from the fire to finish the cooking. A hinged broiler, 
which does away with handling the article in turning, is the 
desirable utensil. Before using, heat this gently, and oil 
well the bars with fat from the meat. 

In broiling, gas and electricity give fairly good results, 
but broiling by electricity more nearly resembles pan-broiling, 
to be noted later. Gas is better adapted to broiling fish 
than steaks and chops. When a clear bed of coals is not at 
hand, a broiler, in which charcoal is the fuel, may be used 
with almost any stove, provided the stove be conn,ected with 
the chimney. In broiling by any fuel, let the dampers be 
turned to carry the flame, caused by the dripping fat, away 
from the meat up the flue. As long as the meat contains 
uncoagulated juice, it will have a puffy appearance and 
rebound under pressure. One^ experienced in broiling can 



12 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

judge quite accurately of the condition of the meat by appear- 
ance and sense of touch; others will do well to regulate the 
time of cooking by the clock. Birds, sweetbreads, and other 
delicacies are often wrapped in oiled paper before broiling. 
(Consult Time-table of'Cooking, page 38.) 

PAN BROILING 

Rub over the surface of a very hot cast-iron frying-pan with 
a bit of fat; put in the meat, and turn constantly, keeping 
the pan very hot. A cast-iron pan holds heat longer than a 
sheet-iron pan. Pour off melted fat that collects in the pan 
lest the meat be sauted rather than broiled, 

SAUTEING 

It is but a step from pan-broiling to sautdjng; let the fat 
remain upon the chops and melt into the pan, and in this 
cook the chops, first on one side and then on the other, and, 
in reality, they are sautdd. In practice, the fat to be used 
needs to, be made hot in the pan, and then the article to be 
cooked is browned in the fat, first upon one side and then on 
the other. After the first side is cooked and the article is 
turned over, to cook the other side, the first side, being 
exposed to the S,ir, cools very quickly, and the condensing 
steam leaves a vacuum into which the fat upon the outside 
settles, there being no opportunity to drain it off. Fat 
raised to a high temperature undergoes changes by which 
fatty acids are evolved, and these are not wholesome, so this 
form of cooking is not to be commended. When indulged 
in, the article to be cooked should be dried by rolling in 
flour, meal, or fine crumbs; then have the fat smoking hot, 
to sear over the outside and keep in the juices. 

FRYING 

Frying is a method of cooking in which heaj; is communi- 
cated to the article to be cooked by immersion in smoking 
hot fat, that is, in fat at a temperature between 345"^ and 
400° Fahr. Two important things are to be noted in frying: 
the article to be cooked is to be immersed in the fat, and th-p 



FRYING 13 

,fat is to be smoking hot; also the preparation of the articles 
themselves should receive .attention. In order that the 
articles to be fried may be immersed, use a deep kettle (a 
round, iron, Scotch bowl is needed), this must be filled with 
fat to nearly two- thirds, its height, vegetable oil, cottolene, 
lard, clarified drippings, or with a mixture of these, according 
to one's means or taste. 

SMOKING HOT FAT 

Cooking fa^s do not boil, the bubbles rising in a kettle of 
hot fat and the spluttering noises are caused by water in the 
fat. If the temperature of spluttering fat be tested, the 
thermometer would register about 212" Fahr., and as long 
as any water remains in the fat the temperature cannot be 
raised aboVe this point; but when the water has evaporated 
the fat becomes still, and in a short time a faint blue smoke, 
or, more properly, vapor, becomes visible. This indicates 
-a temperature of about 380° Fahr., and is the proper tem- 
perature for frying small articles; those, for instance, that 
are protected by a covering of egg and bread crumbs, especially 
if they have been previously cooked, as croquettes. Potatoes 
sliced thin, or tiny white-bait, the one on account of being 
cold and containing a large quantity of moisture, the other 
on account of size, and both because they are to be thoroughly 
crisped, require fat at a higher temperature, that is, about 
400° Fahr., while doughnuts and fritters are cooked at a 
temperature of about 345°. Vegetable oils reach the proper 
temperature for frying before smoke is visible, and, in any 
case, if one fails to detect smoke, the temperature may be 
tested by throwing in a piece of bread. 

TESTS FOR HOT FAT 

If the fat bubbles vigorously around the crumb, throwing 
out large bubbles of steam, and the bread browns while one 
is counting forty or fifty, the smoking point has been reached. 
If only small bubbles appear around the crumb and it does 
not brown quickly, the cooking point has not been reached. 
As articles that are to be cooked in fat contain water, which 



14 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

will be turned, in the hot fat, into steam and cause a "splut- 
tering," it is well to make the surface of these dry before 
they are lowered into the fat. Sometimes flour, or flour 
mixed with liquid to form a batter, is used for this purpose, 
but egg and bread crumbs are used more frequently. When 
the article inclosed in a coating of egg and crumbs is plunged 
into the hot fat, the albumen in the egg coagulates at once, 
forming a fat-proof covering about the article. There is 
always some moisture, even in dry crumbs, as well as in the 
object .itself; this keeps down the temperature inside the 
coating; also the coating not only keeps out the fat, but keeps 
in the flavor and savor in a remarkable manner, and the 
result is, if the article be but removed from the fat at the 
proper time, a most juicy and delicious plat. 

UTENSILS FOR FRYING 

A deep iron bowl with a bail, known as a Scotch bowl, a 
wire basket that fits loosely into the bowl, a long-handled 
fork or spoon, to hold the basket during frying and while 
the cooked articles are draining, a tin pan to set the basket 
on, and soft paper in a second pan for the final draining are 
the utensils that render frying a simple process. When a 
frying-basket is not accessible, a long-handled skimmer will 
do fairly well. 

TIME OF COOKING 

The articles should not be crowded in the basket, or they 
will lower the temperature too much, nor should they touch 
each other. The color when cooked should be fresh, bright 
'yellow, or delicate brown. Fat in which chops or fillets of fish 
are to be cooked (these require about five minutes' cooking) 
should be drawn to a cooler part of the range after the first 
minute of cooking, lest the articles beconie too brown before 
they are thoroughly cooked. As the fat is not, or should 
not be, as hot when the frying is completed as at the beginning, 
it should be reheated until the smoke rises before a second 
lot is fried. Do not let the articles touch each other while 
draining on the paper at the mouth of the oven, else they 



CARE OF FAT 15 

lose their crispness ; remove from the basket and also arrange 
on the serving-dish with the tips of the fingers. 

CARE OF FAT 

When the frying is completed and the fat has stood a few 
moments, to cool and settle, strain through a sieve, an old one 
will do, over which a piece of cheesecloth has been spread, 
into a clean receptacle ; wipe out the bowl with cloth or papers 
and return the fat, cover and set aside. When needed again, 
let stand on the back of the range and heat very slowly, 
then drop in some thin slices of potato; potato being very 
porous will absorb the impurities from the fat and thus clarify 
it. Particles of flour, etc. left .in the fat after cooking wiU, 
when the fat is reheated, turn to charcoal, or become car- 
bonized and cause the fat to become dark in color; for this 
reason, or because the fat has been overheated and undergone 
chemical changes, fat that has been used only a few times 
often becomes unfit for frying, as it will not brown the food 
properly. When this is the case, set it aside for soap-mak- 
ing; with proper care, however, fat may be used for frying 
many times. 

Olive oil does not bum as readily as animal fats, and for 
this reason it may be used more repeatedly than lard or 
drippings. But in careless hands any fat is liable to become 
overheated and burned. The same kettle of fat may be 
used for frying all articles, if the fish or anything that imparts 
flavor be carefully protected with egg and bread-crumbs; 
but, in practice, where much frying is done it is more econom- 
ical to keep two bowls, one for fritters, and flour mixtures, 
the other for fish and meat preparations, renewing the fat 
in the latter from the former and adding fresh fat to the 
.first kettle as it is needed. The fat from mutton, turkeys, 
and smoked meats is not good for the fat "bath"; bacon 
fat is used for saut^ing. When properly conducted, frying 
in deep fat has been found by careful experiments to be more 
economical than saut^ing; it is also more wholesome, as 
articles tWs cooked properly and drained absorb very little 
fat. 



i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BOILING 

Boiling as applied to cooking is the application of heat to 
food products through the medium of boiling, or simmering 
water. At sea-level water boils at 212°, and simmers at 
183° Fahr. Rapid-boiling water, unless the steam be con- 
fined, attains no higher temperature and so cooks food no 
more quickly than water boiling less rapidly. When rapid- 
boiling water is advisable, as in boiling macaroni, rice, or 
peas, the object is not to cook more quickly, but to separate 
the contents by violence of motion and keep them from 
clinging to the receptacle in which they are cooked. The 
boiling point of stock and milk is slightly higher than that 
of water. Milk boils at 214'' Fahr. ; as this temperature 
hardens the casein, thus making it less digestible, milk should 
not be allowed to reach the boiling point ; it should be cooked 
over hot water. When bead-like bubbles appear on the 
edge of milk next to the dish the milk is scalded. Scalded 
milk reaches a temperature of 196°. As we wish to retain 
all the juices in boiled meat, we plunge it, first of all, into 
boiling water, and after searing over the outside reduce the 
temperature to the simmering point. Water does not simmer 
when it is perfectly still, the surface of the liquid should stir 
gently. When bubbles are formed that break upon the 
surface, the water boils. While rapid boiling softens the 
connecting tissues between the little bundles of fibres and 
causes meat to appear tender, the fibre itself is made 
soluble only by long slow cooking; also the flavors of meats 
(and vegetable? as well) are volatile, and much of these is 
carried off in the steam from rapidly boiling water. Thus, 
it would seem that, save for the hardening of the albumen, 
reason suffices for cooking meat, after the juices are im- 
prisoned, at the simmering point. Closed vessels aid in 
retaining flavor. 

STEWING 

Stewing is done by gentle simmering in a small quantity 
of liquid; by tfiis means the juices and gelatinous substances 



STEWING AND BRAISING 17 

in the products are partially softened and dissolved in the 
liquid; the saver and juices of the. contents are. divided 
between the article thus cooked and the liquid. Chef 
Meyer notices three varieties of stews : the brown stew, known 
as the ragout, or haricot ; the white stew, as blanquette, or 
fricassee, and miscellaneous, or mixed stews, .as the Irish 
stews and Hungarian goulash. The color of the brown 
stew is, secured by browning, or saut^ing, the meat beforf 
the water is added. , The meat for a white steiy i^ put over 
a fire with cold water to cover, and the cooking prqceeds 
very slowly until the boiling point is reached; when this 
has been well established, the cooking is completed at the 
simmering point. When, the meat is tender, the vegetables 
used for flavoring are removed, and the- sauce is thickened 
with a roux, or with flour mixed smoothly with water to 
pour. Oftentimes stews are thickened by the addition of 
barley, rice, oatmeal, and potatoes, and a garnish of vegetables 
as small boiled onions, green peas, potato balls, or slices, 
or mushrooms are added. A close-covered sauce-pan, or 
a fire-proof casserole, are the best utensils for making stews. 
The cooking may be done in the oven, or on the top of the 
range. 

BRAISING 

Braising is a more elaborate process of stewing. This 
form of cooking is suited to small pieces of meat; it provides 
a dish of rather more pretension than a stew, and yet one that, 
while it may supply the place of a roast, would not be con- 
sidered quite as elegant. Pans are made for braising, with 
lid sunk so as to hold hot coals, or burning charcoal, and thus 
providing heat above and below. Such pans are expensive; 
an ordinary pan, or plain earthen casserole with a cover 
answers every purpose. The article to be braised should not 
be very much smaller than the dish itself; a two-inch space 
on all sides of the article is ample. 

Melt in the -dish an ounce of butter, or drippings, and then 
put in a layer of mixed vegetables, carrot, onion, celery, 
turnip, etc, cleaned and cut into small cubes; add also a 



i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

piece of bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, il 
at hand. On this bed lay the articles to be braised, trimmed 
and fastened in compact shape, also larded, if desired. Put 
the cover over the meat and let cook, shaking occasionally 
for about fifteen minutes; then add water, or stock, to touch 
the bottom of the meat. Spread a layer of vegetables over 
the top of the meat and cut a piece of white paper a little 
larger than the top of the pan; brush this over with oil, 
butter, or dripping, and lay closely down over the meat 
and vegetables, so as to keep in all the steam. Put the cover 
in place and let simmer very gently until done; then remove 
the cover and paper, and brown the top of the meat in a 
hot oven. The time of cooking varies with the kind and 
quality of the meat. 



CHAPTER IV 
Processes and Terms Used in Cooking. 

MEASURING 

In the careful cook's outfit scales are a necessity, but, as 
this item in so many households is considered non-essential, 
measures by cups and spoonfuls are as a rule, indicated in the 
'recipes. The cup referred to is invariably the "cooking- 
school" measuring cup, upon the side of which divisions in 
thirds and fourths are indicated. The cup is of proper size 
when it holds exactly half a pint, two gills, of liquid, or 
half a pound of granulated sugar, or butter. (See also Table 
of Weights and Measures, _ page 41.) A tablespoon holding 
half an ounce of sugar or butter, level measure, and a tea- 
spoon holding sixty drops of water are of proper size for the 
respective measurements. 

In all recipes where flour is used, unless otherwise stated, 
the flour is measured after sifting once. When flour is 
measured by cups, the cup is filled with a spoon and a level 
cup is meant. A tablespoonful, or a teaspoonful, of any 
designated material is a level spoonful of such material. 

Half a tablespoonful, or teaspoonful, is obtained by dividing 
a spoonful lengthwise of the spoon; divide the half-spoonful 
crosswise, for quarters. A cup of liquid cannot be safely 
carried,as it is all the cup will hold; the same is true of a 
spoonful of liquid. 

WAYS OF COMBINING INGREDIENTS 

Stirring is done by moving a spoon or knife round and 
round, in ever widening circles, until the ingredients are 
thoroughly blended. 

Beating is done by cutting down with a spoon (or other 
utensil) from the top to the bottom of a mixture and bringing 

, 19 



20 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the spoon up to the surface, then passing over and down again 
and thus turning the mixture over and over. The object 
is to combine air with the mixture and make it light. 

CUTTING AND FOLDING 

This term is usually applied to the process by which the 
whites of eggs, or cream, beaten stiff, may be incorporated , 
into another mixture without the destruction and loss pf air 
bubbles that have . already been formed. Put the mixture, 
or ingredients, to be combined into a dish. With (spoon 
or knife cut down to the bottom of the dish, turn, bring to 
the top and fold over the mixture thus brought tp the sur- 
face. Repeat the process until the ingredients are completely 
blended. 

WHAT IS MEANT BY "TOSSING," "COOKING OVER HOT 
WATER," ETC. 

To "toss" is to move small articles about in the frying-pan, 
in which there is nielted butter, or seasonings, that the 
articles may be uniformly covered with the butter, or season- 
ings. To secure this, shake the pan as in popping corii, or 
rapidly turn the articles over and over with a spoon or fork. 

COOKING OVER HOT WATER, OR DRY STEAMING 

The vessel in which food is thus cpoked, does not come in 
direct contact with the source of heat; boiling water inter- 
venes. The double-boiler is the proper utensil. 

To "poach" is "to cook, as eggs, by breaking them into 
a vessel of boiling water. " 

SERVING AU GRATIN 

To serve au gr$.tin is to %^ry^ a dish covered with cracker 
crumbs, buttered and browned in the oven. To prepare, 
with a silver fork mix one cup of Cracker crumbs with one- 
fourth, or one-third a cup of melted butter; spread Over the 
hot preparation, usually some cooked article mixed with a 
sauce — and set in a hot oVen long enough to brown the 
crumbs. 



LARDING, DAUBING, ETC. 21 

SERVING A LA JARDINIERE 

To serve k la jardiniere is to serve with a mixture of several 
cooked vegetables usually cut small. 

A SALPICON 

A salpicon is a mixture of fruits in a flavored syrup, or 
of cooked fish, -game, or meats, of one or more kinds, cut iti 
cubes and mixed with bits of truffles, or mushrooms, in a rich 
creamy sauce. The latter may be setved in patties, Swedish 
timbale cases, in tiny casseroles, or from a vol-au-vent. Or 
it may be used as the filling or centre of timbales, or inside a 
rice, or potato, border. A fruit salpicon is served in individual 
glasses, in a pineapple, or muskmelon shell, or in the peel of 
oranges, of grape-fruit. 

LARDING 

Cut the rind from a piece of fat salt pork, two inches wide 
andfour inches long; cut slices one-fourth an inch thick the 
same way as the rind down to the little bunch of fibres that 
separate the upper firm layer of pork from the softer layer 
below; cut each slice, crosswise, into match-like strips oner 
fourth an inch thick (lardoons). As soon as the lardoons 
are cut, put them where they will keep cool until ready to 
use. Insert one end of the lardoon into the larding-needle and 
use this like any needle, taking stitches about three-eighths 
an inch deep and three-fourths an inch wide. When the 
needle and pork have been drawn through the flesh, cut off 
the pork, leaving a part in the meat w;ith ends of equal length 
outside. In the same way take up as many stitches as are 
desired, about three-fourths an inch apart, inserting fresh 
lardoons into the needle as often as they are needed. 

DAUBING 

The flavour of a thick, dry piece of lean meat is often im- 
proved by making cuts through it from one side to the other 
and pressing into these cuts thick lardoons Of fat siilt pork 



2 2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

(half an inch thick). This process is called daubing, and 
is used for beef k la mode, etc. 

BONING 

Boning is the removing of all bones from fish, fowl, or 
joint, leaving the flesh entire. Eish, fowl, a leg of mutton, 
a fore-quarter, or shoulder of mutton, lamb, or veal, and 
chops, are the pieces usually boned. Often fish are much 
more appetizing and sightly when boned. It is also an 
economical method of serving fish, as the bones, with such 
particles of flesh as adhere to them, seasoned with vegetables, 
produce good stock for basting, or for a sauce. In boning 
a bird or fowl, the flesh is removed 'from the frame, or bones 
in one piece. In boning birds and poultry, one of two objects 
is in view: either to retain the natural shape of the bird 
or to prepare the flesh for inclosing stuffing, to form a galantine. 

ROUX 

Roux (French for red) is a cooked preparation of butter 
and flour used for thickening gravy, sauces, and soups. The 
proportions of butter and flour are one ounce of butter and 
half an ounce of flour to one cup of liquid, for sauces, and 
one pint of liquid for soups ; by measure two level tablespoon- 
fuls, each, of butter and flour to one cup, or one pint of liquid. 
While these are the ordinary proportions, more flour, even 
a full ounce, for an ounce of butter is occasionally required, 
as when making sauce for croquettes and similar mixtures. 
And also when making a brown roux, or roux proper, as the 
flour in browning loses some of its thickening qualities. To 
prepare, melt the butter; when bubbling add the flour, mix 
well and leave on a slow fire, stirring occasionally until it 
becomes of a reddish brown, or mahogany color. 

This is roux, but in cookery we speak of it as brown roux. 
When the flour has cooked in the bubbling butter just long 
enough to burst the starch cells, rather less than five minutes, 
and without taking color, the preparation is called blonde 
roux. When a more highly fiavoured roux is desired, cook 
a_" faggot" with a: slice of onion in the butter before adding 




SHAPINir CRngUETT]-:s. (Si'.^ jia^u 2i,.) 




BONED AND STUFFED FOWL, LARDED. 
(See r*agcs 21 and 22.) 




UTENSILS FOR MAKING SAUCES. (See pa^e 220.) 

Pointed strainer, saucepan, dDuble-biiiler, cup holding half a pint, wire 

whisk, wooden spoon, tablespoon filled with butter. 



KITCHEN BOUQUET, ETC. 23. 

the flour. Cool the roux before adding a hot Hquid ; a cold 
liquid may be added at once. Roux may be prepared and 
set aside for future use. This may be of advantage in the 
case of brown roux, but certainly it is not called for in the 
case of the blonde, as it is but five minutes' work to prepare 
the latter. 

COOKED FINE HERBS. (USED FOR PAUPIETTES, CHOPS, 

SAUCES, ETC.) • 

I oz. of butter. (Stalks and other trimmings, or 

1 clove of garlic, fine chopped. whole mushrooms) 

2 c^. of shallot, fine chopped. 1-4 a cup, each, of glaze and white 
4 oz.of parsley, fine chopped. or brown sauce. 

4 oz. of mushrooms. 

Melt the butter, add the garUc and shallot, and cook with- 
out coloring two or three minutes; add the mushrooms, 
chopped fine, and stir and cook until the moisture has evap- 
orated, then add the parsley, and, if not to be used at once, 
also one-fourth a cup, each, of glaze and white, or brown, 
sauce, and simmer until quite consistent. 

FAGGOT OR KITCHEN BOUQUET 

For flavoring soups and sauces what is known as a faggot, 
or kitchen bouquet, is used. This commonly consists 
of a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, or sweet marjoram, and two 
or three cloves wrapped and tied within two or three small 
sprigs of . parsley. Yellow rind of lemon may be added. 
When seeds, as celery and pepper-corns, are used, the whole 
may be tied in a bit of cheesecloth. The object is to secure 
easy removal from the hot liquid. 

HOW TO ADD YOLKS OF EGGS TO SOUPS OR SAUCES 

In adding yolks of eggs to soups and sauces to secure 
richness or thickening (liaison), remove the sauce or soup 
from the fire, then mix a spoonful or two of the liquid with 
the yolks, previously beaten, and, when well-blended, add 
a little more of the liquid, mix and pour into the saucepan. 



24 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

If the egg does not look cooked, return to thfe fire a moment 
and stir without letting boil. 

SEASONING AND FLAVORING 

The use of onions in culinary preparations has ever been a 
much-mooted question. Though the more refined members of 
society have always placed a sweeping interdict upon_ them, 
their use to' the extent, at least, that is indicated by the 
French soupcon, or Suspicion, is of decided advantage. And 
really, there is no question tljat, even in larger measure, the 
flavor of onions is of genuine value in rendering fish, 
veali .and the cheaper cuts. of. beef 'savory. Jt is the ^vor 
of all savors beloved of the artisan, and oft and again renders 
some homely dish acceptable day after day. Parsley, when- 
ever it, is possible, should be used in connection ,with onion. 
It is thought to QQunteract a tendency in some 'to the flat- 
ulency caused by the onion. It also sweetens the breadth. 
Dfied rnushrooms^ .when the fresh. are not to be, had, mush- 
room or tomato 'ca,tsup, the otiter stalks and green leaves 
of celery, or telery seeds, sweet jpeppers, green pr red, a Tpit .of 
bay leaf, aromatic herbs, or a drop or two of tabasco sauce 
used judiciously,,-, now and then, will .lend savor or 
piquancy to many an' otherwise plain dish. It, is often the 
little plfeasirfg surprise in flavor that 'starts the flow of, the 
digestive fluids and puts the tired workman (whether of 
hand or^ brain) in genial mobd,-. The simple art of 'judicious 
flavotitig is 6ne that every woman with a family to feed 
Would d6 well to cUltivaite. ' 

The G'ferman housewife adds a sprig of mint to green peas 
while they are cooking, also mace or nutmeg to many a meat 
and vegetable dish. A little mace in the custard used as a 
garnish ^for soups, and in such delicately flavored dishes 
as chicken, or sweetbread timbales, often changes flat and 
ijisipid productions into most acceptable plats. Delicate 
meats and fish for salads are much improved by being allowed 

to stand some time before serving in a French dressing a 

ttiixtute of oil and acid. (See Salads, page 353). Tough, 
dry., or tasteless meat can be improved by letting stand some 



EGGING AND CRUMBING. 35 

time before cooking in a marinade. Mustard should be used 
with care. It bites too soon. 

HOW TO EXTRACT ONION JUlOE 

Cut a thin slice from one end of the onion, then press against 
a lemon grater, giving a slight rotary motion ; turn the grater, 
and the juice will flow from one corner. A lemon squeezer 
kept on purpose for onions is also useful. 

TO EGG-AND-BREAD-CRUMB FOR FRYING 

, ;■ THE CRUMBS 

>Sieparate the crust of bread from, the crumb and dry each 
separately in the warming-oven, without letting the crumb 
take color; pass through a meatrchopper and a sieve. Use the 
brown crumbs for the first coating, and the white for the 
outsidte. If a very delicatte color be desired; use pieces of 
undried bread, and pass through a colander; the larger quahr 
tity of moisture in the .fresh crumbs Causes the article -thug 
covered to assume a more delicate hue. Season the crumbs 
before using with salt and pepper, or with powdered sugar, 
as required. Cracker, cyumbs are not, pften desirable, as 
they give a pasty crust. Lady-finger crumbs, or powdered 
liiaoaroons are bfteh uSed for fcrutnbing sweet dishSsi 

THE EGG 

The whole' egg is preferable ; but the white or yolk alone 
may be used. The white, being almost pure albumen, gives 
a tough crust, and the yolk alone, which contains consider- 
able fat, a more tender cri^st. When for convenience the 
white is used alone, add to each portion of two eggs half 
a tablespoonful, each* of oil and water, beat together 
thoroughly, but not to a foam, and pass through ' a sieve. 
When whole eggs, or yolks alone, are used, omit the oil, 
adding water equal to the volume of egg. 

THE APTICL^ 

Have th6 seasoned, crumbs upon the m'eat-board; roll the 
articles to be coated in the ctumbs, then hold them, one at 



26 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

a time, on a broad-bladed knife over the egg, and with a very 
soft brush dipped into the, egg brush every part of the object. 
Or, if preferred, for croquette mixtures use a spoon and pour 
the egg over the article, moistening every part; then drop 
from the knife into the crumbs and roll on the board until 
completely and evenly covered with crumbs; let stand a 
little before frying. Fine-chopped parsley may be added 
to the crumbs, in case of savory articles. 

TO BREAD-CRUMB A LA MILANAISE 

Dip the article to be breaded in melted butter, then in 
equal parts of grated Parmesan cheese and white crumbs; 
finish with egg and crumbs. 

TO BREAD-CRUMB A LA DIABLE 

Season with salt, pepper, and mustard, or spread with 
"made" mustard; dip in crumbs, then in egg and again in 
crumbs. Used for mutton chops, either for broiling or frying, 
also for cooked chicken, or turkey legs, to be reheated by 
broiling and frying. 

TO BREAD FOR BROILING 

Brush or coat the article with oil or melted butter, then 
roll in white crumbs. 

TO BREAD FISH WITH FLOUR FOR FRYING 

Dip the fish in milk, then in flour, seasoned with salt and 
pepper. 

TO SHAPE CROQUETTE MIXTURE 

When the croquette mixture is cold and firm, roll with the 
hands into balls, then gently roll each ball in turn in crumbs, 
carefully covering each part with crumbs and giving to the 
ball such shape as is desired. The easiest shape for a be- 
ginner to attempt is that of a cylinder. To secure this shape, 
lightly roll the ball back and forth upon the crumbs, press- 
ing upon it gently 'to lengthen, then take up lightly and drop 
the end gently on the board, turn and drop the other end 



MARINADE FOR VENISON, ETC. 27 

upon the board, repeating the process. Let stand to stiffen 
a little, then cover with the egg. Roll at once in the crumbs 
a second time, rolling and shaping as before, to insure per- 
fection in shape and smoothness of crust. Let stand an hour 
before frying. Croquette mixtures made of fish or lobster 
are usually given a half-heart or cutlet shape. To secure 
this flatten the ball with a broad-bladed knife, or the hand, 
making one end pointed and. the other round; round out one 
side and curve the other by pressing with the fingers. Insert 
a short piece of macaroni into the pointed end of a fish chop 
before cooking. After cooking cover with a paper frill; 
or, omit the macaroni and insert a sprig of parsley after the 
chop is fried. The small claws of the lobster are inserted 
in lobster chops, or cutlets, after frying. A tiny, paper aigrette 
is used for croquettes made cork-shaped. 

FAT FOR FRYING, ETC. 

Cut cooked or uncooked fat in small pieces ; if it be uncooked 
let stand twenty-four hours in cold water, changing the 
water once in the period; jthis will reduce the flavor. When 
ready to cook drain and add a cup of milk for each two 
pounds of fat, and cook very slowly, until the fat is clear, 
the pieces are light-brown in color, and(. there is .no sound 
of cooking. With a wooden spoon loosen, but do not stir, 
the fat from the bottom of the kettle ; strain through a cloth, 
then press the remaining fat from - the pieces for use as fat 
of second quality. 

\ COOKED MARINADE FOR VENISON, MUTTON, ETC. 

I quart of water. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I pint of vinegar. 6 sprigs of parsley. 

21-2 tablespoonfuls of salt. i tablespoonful of mixed herbs. 

I tablespoonful of pepper-corns. 2 onions, sliced. 

A blade of mace. i carrot, sliced. 

Put all the ingredients over the fire; let boil up once, then 
simmer gently half, an hour. Use at once, or strain, and 
store in fruit jars for future use. In practice let the meat 



28 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

stand in the marinade one to fouf days, according to the 
Season of theyear, turning the same in the liquid occasionally; 

MARINADE FOR CHOPS, FILLETS OF FISH, ETC. 

Brush over the articles with olive oil, sprinkle with lemon 
juice, then pile in twos, with a sliced onion and strips of green 
or red pepper between. Let stand over night, or several 
hours. If the meat be tough, use the oil more generously, 
and substitute vinegar for lemon juice. Cooked meats, or 
fish to be served in a' sauce, are often much improved, if let 
stand an hour or two in a mixture of equal parts of oil, lemon 
juice, half a teaspoonful of salt to a pint of material, a dash 
of paprika, and a little onion juice, if the latter be agreeable. 
Brain before adding to the sauce. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUPS 

Cut the bread in slices from one-fourth to three-eighths 
an inch thick; remove the crusts, and 'cut in small cubes, 
or in fiiiger-lengths ; then sautd in hdt butter, or spread with 
butter and brown in the Oven, turning frequently that all 
sides inay be evenly browned. 

CROUTONS FOR A GARNISH 

Crouton? may be used as a garnish for scalloped oysters, 
or spinach for meat, or fish, in a sauce; triangular pieces, acute 
angled, or those with a broad base, are the choice ; after shap- 
ing prepare as other croutons. , 

BREAD CROUSTAftES 

Bread croustades are croutons fashioned to hold a pur^e 
of some kind, or some cooked article, cut small and mixed 
with a sauce. These may be stamped in rounds, diamonds, 
or other shapes, with cutters made for the purpose. The 
slice of bread varies in thickness, according to the service. 
After the bread is in the required shape, with a pointed knife 
cut a line around the top of the slice about half an inch from 
the edge and carefully remove the crumb to form a receptacle. 



CROUSTADES 29 

The walls should be half an inch thick.. Brown as croutons; 
for soup, or by frying in deep fat. 

PASTRY CROUSTADES 

Roll trimmings from pufE paste into a sheet one-fourth 
an inch thick; then with a cutter dipped in hot water stamp 
out pieces of paste; heart, diamond, and round shapes are 
generally used. With a small round cutter dipped in hot 
water, score the centre quite deeply, but do not cut through 
the paste. Bake as any puff -paste; then remove the centres 
and fill. Siriall patty cases are often used' for this purpose. 

POTATO CROUSTADES 

Use plain mashed potato, or Duchess potato : mixture, 
(See page 291,) Spread the potato evenly to the depth of half 
an inch on a buttered baking-sheet; brush over with yolk 
of egg, beaten and diluted with a little milk, When cold 
cut the potato diagonally in two directions, to make. diamond?, 
shaped pieces about thrge inches in length, or cut out with 
a cutter. Score these diagonally', to present small diamond 
shapes, then reheat by browning in a hot oven. To serve, 
remove a bit from the centre of each and place in and above 
this a teaspoonful of peas, asparagus, or fine^ehopped" meat, 
in a thick sauce. This provides a suitable way of serving 
potato and peas in a fish course. 

RICE CROUSTADES 

I eup of rice. 1^2 a teaspoonful of salt, 

i'-2 a aup of tomato puree, 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

3 cups of chicken broth, Egg and bread crunib?, 

Parboil and rinse the rice. Return to the- saucepan with 
the purde, broth, salt and butter, and when boiling cook 
over hot water, until the rice is tender and the liquid is ab- 
sorbed. Then pack into one large mould, into small dariole 
moulds, or muffin rings placed on a baking-sheet, all well 
buttered. Set aside to cool. When cold, egg-and-bread- 
crumb; then with a sharp-pointed knife or small cutter make 
an incision around each croustade, leavinig a rim about one- 



30 PRACTICAL COOKING- AND SERVING 

fourth an inch wide. Fry to a golden brown in deep fat; 
then remove the piece in the centre of the tops, scoop out the 
centres and fill with cooked material, cut in cubes and heated 
in a sauce. 

BLANCHED RICE 

To a cup of rice add a quart of cold water, let boil five 
minutes after the boiling point is reached, then wash and 
drain on a sieve. 

BLANCHING FRESH VEGETABLES 

Many vegetables are improved in appearance and made 
more delicate in flavor if they be blanched (parboiled and 
drained) before the cooking proper is begun. Set the vege- 
tables, properly cleaned, to cook in plenty of boiling water; 
let cook from five to fifteen or more minutes, according to 
size, etc. , drain and rinse with cold water. Then cook to finist 
as desired. 

BEATING EGGS 

Without taking into consideration the fact that eggs enrich 
mixtures, they are added either to thicken a mixture, or tc 
thicken and render a mixture light. Lightness is not alway.= 
desirable. When eggs are added simply to thicken a mixture, 
they should be beaten only until the whites and yolks are 
well mixed, i.e., without separating the whites from the yolks? 
and until a spoonful of the mixture can be taken up and held in 
the spoon. A spoon, fork, whisk, or Dover egg-beater may 
be used. When tlie eggs are added to insure lightness the 
yolks and whites should be beaten separately, — the yolks until 
thick and lemon-coloured, and the whites until dry. 

Various textures may be given to the whites of eggs in 
beating, by a judicious selection of the utensil used. If a 
close texture be desired, choose the Dover egg-beater; & 
looser texture is insured by the confectioner's whisk, and a 
still looser texture, by the flat-beater. The reason for this 
lies in the fact that the whisk and flat-beater carry into the 
mixture more air, half the utensil at eaich motion being first 




UTENSILS FOR BEATING EGGS. (See page 30.) 
Flat beaters, confectioner's whisk, Dover egg- beater 




PASTRY BAGS AND TUBES. (See page .:i2.) 
Pastry bag with threaded ring, copper tubes tin tubes. 




DOUBLE CREAM BEATEN SOLID WITH EGG BEATER. 
Whip churn an<l frothed cream. (Seepage 31.) 



BEATING EGGS AND CREAM 31 

in the air and then in the egg, while the Dover beater is 
immersed in the egg until the egg is beaten. 

In using the Dover egg-beater, let it rest lightly in the bowl, 
beating slowly at first, then increasing in rapidity. To beat 
well eggs should be cold and fresh; a few grains of salt may 
be added to the whites to hasten the process. 

BEATING CREAM 

Cream from milk that has stood twelve hours is called 
single, thin, or strawberry cream. This cream, as a rule, 
cannot be beaten stiff with Dover egg-beater, or whisk. Single 
cream, after being chilled, is frothed with a cream, or whip- 
chum. This is a tin cylinder, with perforations in and near 
the bottom, in which a perforated dasher is worked up and 
down. The first froth is stirred down, as the bubbles are 
large; the froth is now removed, as it rises, and drained on a 
sieve. The cream that dri^s through may be whipped a 
second time. Set the frothed cream aside to chill and stiffen. 
When this cream is to be used as garnish for a dish, it should 
be sweetened and flavoured before beating. When it is 
used to give lightness, as in Bavarian cream, etc., it should 
be folded, not stirred, into the other ingredients. 

Cream from milk that has stood twenty-four hours is known 
as double cream. This cream, when chilled, may be beaten 
stiff with the Dover egg-beater in a very few seconds; if 
beaten a second too long, it turns to butter. This gives a 
firm, fine-grained cream, and is used whenever a rich, stiff 
cream is required, as an addition to a salad dressing, for the 
filling of cream cakes and eclairs, for the filling of a bomb 
glac6 (when no gelatine mixture is to be added), or to force 
through a pastry-bag and tube for a garnish. Double cream 
majcJbe- diluted with milk" and frothed with the whip-chum, 
as single cream. As cream varies so much in quality, it 
cannot always be diluted with the same quantity of milk. It 
could, however, scarcely be called double cream, if it would 
not stand the addition of an equal quantity of milk; and, 
oftentimes, before the -"^hip that rises is of a sufficiently light 
and fluffy textur^ and a half cups of milk to each cup 



32 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of cream will be required, A good way is to begin by diluting 
in the proportion of one cup of milk to one cup of cream, and 
then add miljc until the texture is right. 

THE PASTRY BAQ AND TUBES 

In filling moulds evenly and disposing soft materials, 
as chou paste, lady-finger mixture, purees, mayonnaise dressing 
and whipped cream, in small shapely portions, the best results 
can be obtained by the use of the pastry-bag and tubes. 
Bags of duck or rubber cloth are purchasable, but they can 
be easily made 'at home and at less than one-fourth the ex- 
pense of boughten goods. Tubes of different shapes and sizes 
can be bought singly or in sets. A threaded ring, which fits 
into the smaller end of the bag, and to which the several 
tubes can be a,ttached, accompanies the sets. Single tubes 
are not provided with thread or groove. The bag is made to 
fit the tubes. 

THE BAG 

Fold a square of ticking, duck, or rubber cloth, to form a 
triangle; stitcji and fell one of the open sides; cut off the 
small end of the bag thus formed, to make an opening, into 
which the shank, or tube, inserted ftt the larger end may be 
fitted closely; hem this end, also the top of the bag. 

USE OF BAG AND TUBE 

Fix the tube in place; roll outward the upper part of the 
bag so as to put the mixture just above the tube without 
smearing the sides of the bag. Fil} the bag about one-third 
full. With the right hand carefully twist the bag above th? 
mix;tt;re, guide the tube with the left hand, and force out the 
mixture by continuing the twisting, at the same time using 
pressure, with the right hand. To form a star, hold the' Bag 
' in vertical position and press put a sufficient quantity of the 
mixture. Separate the tube from the material by pressing 
the tube downwards slightly and raising it quickly. For 
other designs hold thQ bag at other angles, between the vertical 
and a horigontal position. 



CARAMEL, BLANCHING NUTS 33 

CARAMEL FOR FLAVORING CUSTARDS, ETC. 

Stir the quantity of sugar needed in a small saucepan 
over the fire until the sugar melts. Stir constantly and pour 
as soon as melted info the liquid to be flavored. The hand 
must be protected while the liquids are combined, as on 
account of the intense heat of the caramel much steam will 
be generated. Remove the pan from the stove often, while the 
sugar is melting, to avoid overheating. The caramel may 
also be poured on to an oiled marble slab, or a platter; when 
cooled a little remove, and when quite cold pound fine in a 
mortar, then add to the hot liquid to be flavored. 

LINING A MOULD WITH CARAMEL 

Turn the liquid caramel into a charlotte russe, or other 
mould, then, using a holder, turn the mould round and found 
letting the caramel run all over the inside of the mould. The 
mould must be handled quickly, as the caramel soon hardens 

CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUPS, ETC. 

Let the melted sugar cook until it is quite dark, then add 
an equal quantity of boiling water and let simmer a minute 
or two. Store in fruit-jar or bottle. It will keep indefinitely 
anti without sealing. 

BLANCHING ALMONDS, PISTACHIOS OR ENGLISH 
WALNUTS 

Cover the nuts with boiling water and let stand over the fire 
five or ten minutes, until the skin easily slips from the meat 
under the pressure of the fingers ;' then drain and keep covered 
with cold water, while the skins are being removed. Dry 
in the heater or open air. A small pointed knife will be 
needed to detach the skin from walnuts. The water about 
pistachio nuts needs to boil a moment or two, as the nuts do 
not blanch easily. 

CHOPPED ALMONDS 

Chop when partly dry, and sift through a sieve; chop again 
what remains on the sieve and sift as before. 



34 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



SHREDDED ALMONDS 

Dry freshly-peeled almonds in a cloth and cut at once into 
shreds, lengthwise. 

ALMOND MILK, FOR CURRIES, BLANC-MANGE, ETC. 

Pound in a mortar half a pound of almonds, with a few 
spoonfuls of cold water, until the meats are reduced to 
a fine paste; dilute with a pint of milk, or water, and 
strain through a cheese-cloth, pressing out all that will pass 
through. 

POUNDING ALMONDS 

Mix the almonds with white of egg, or liquid, and pound 
in the mortar. Or mix with sugar and put through a meat- 
cutter three or four times. After forcing the nuts through 
the chopper the first time, adjust the machine to cut, or 
crush as fine as possible. 

SHELLING AND BLANCHING CHESTNUTS 

With a sharp-pointed knife slit each shell across one side. 
Cook one' minute in boiling water, drain and let dry. Add a 
teaspoonful of butter for each pint of nuts, and stir and shake 
over the fire, or in the oven three or four minutes ; then remove 
the shell and skin together. Keep the nuts covered with a 
cloth, in the meantime, as they shell more easily when hot. 

PREPARING LEMONS FOR USE 

Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth without rubbing. If 
only the flavor or zest is called for, pare off the thin yellow 
rind, remove every trace of white, and chop very fine. If 
a lemon grater be used, carefully avoid the bitter white skin. 
To keep lemons, wipe carefully, wrap each, separately, in clean, 
drv tissue paper and let stand in a draft of air. 

WASHING CURRANTS 

Set the currants in a sieve in a deep pan of lukewarm 
water, and rub them between the hands. This loosens the 



GLAZING BREAD AND ROLLS 35 

steins, which sink in the water. Renew the water several 
times. Dry the currants before using them. 

PREPARING ANCHOVIES 

Rinse the anchovies in several waters (cold) to remove the 
salt, then let stand in cold water ten minutes or longer. Ancho- 
vies of inferior quality need to remain several hours in water. 
Milk may be used instead of water. With the fingers remove 
the fins from the back, and, holding the fish by the tail, pull 
into halves, discarding the backbone and rear fin. Then 
wipe or drain carefully, and use according to recipes. 

FRINGING CELERY FOR A GARNISH 

Cut the stalks into pieces two inches long. Beginning 
on the round side and at one end, cut down half an inch, mak- 
ing as many thin slices as possible. Turn the stalk, and cut 
these slices, in the opposite direction, as thin as possible. Cut 
the opposite end in the same way. Set the pieces aside in 
very cold, acidulated water, and, in a short time, many of thd 
shreds will curl over and meet in the centre of the stalk. 

TO GLAZE BREAD AND ROLLS 

1-2 an oz. of cornstarch. i pint of boiling water. 

Mix the cornstarch with cold water and when smooth pour 
on the^ boiling water. Apply with a brush, when the bread is 
nearly baked, then return to the oven, to finish the baking, 
repeating the process once or twice. 

SPICED PEPPER FOR STUFFING 

1-4 an ounce of thyme. 1-2 an ounce of cloves. 

1-4 an ounce of summer savory. 1-4 an ounce of black-pepper 

berries 
1-4 an ounce of sweet marjoram 1-8 an ounce of Nepaul pepper 

berries. 
1-2 an ounce of nutmeg, or mace, if desired. 

Pound together in a mortar until reduced to a powder, 
pass through a fine sieve, bottle and cork securely. 



CHAPTER V 

Cook's Time-Table. Tables of Proportions, 
Weights and IVIeasures 

In preparing a meal it is quite essential to know accurately 
the time required for cooking the different viands, otherwise 
one dish may become cold, while the cook is waiting for the 
completion of another that is to accompany it. With the 
aid of an oven thermometer, or heat-indicator, one can by 
actual experience soon learn almost to a certainty the length 
of time required to bake most articles. This is especially 
true in case of bread, pastry, cake, puddings and custards, 
the ingredients of which may be considered as known quanti- 
ties. More or less doubt exists in regard to the length of time re- 
quired for the cooking of animal and vegetable substances; 
for with these tenderness, one of the most important things 
aimed at in the cooking, will depend upon variable conditions, 
as, in animal substances, age and habits of life, and in vegetables 
upon age, soil, and season in which they are grown, and upon 
the length of time passed since they were gathered. 

In the tables given below, the minimum and maximum 
times are given in which the article is to be cooked at a suitable 
temperatute. When articles of same weight vary in thick- 
ness, the thicker will require the longer period. The time 
depends not so much upon weight as upon the extent of 
surface presented to the heat. For instance, a long thin 
fish will require ten or fifteen minutes less time in baking than 
a short, thick middle cut of salmon of the same weight. As 
an aid to best results in baking, an oven thermometer, or 
"heat indicator," is of great value. The heat indicator 
shows the temperature of the oven, but to secure and keep 
this temperature, the condition of the fire-box, when coal or 
wood is used, must be studied with care. The matter is 

36 



HEAT INDICATOR 



37 



much more simple when gas or electricity is the fuel. When 
a dish is ready for the oven, though the index points to the 
proper temperature for the cooking of that dish, if the fire 
be spent, — the coal showing by a white line near the edges 
that it has lost its vitality, — the temperature will fall rapidly, 
and the addition of coal will not help the matter before the 
article, be it cake, or some deHcate confection, is utterly 
ruined. Then, too, if the fire be new and fierce, unless it 
be regulated with the nicest care, the heat is apt to become 
too severe. The indicator does not regulate the fire, but 
shows the condition of the oven as far as heat is concerned. 
But by judgment and experience the exact temperature for 
the baking of each dish can be determined, and the regulation 
of the fire to maintain this temperature be, secured. The 
figure gives a general idea of 
an oven thermometer, or heat- 
indicator. 

For instance, when there is 
no fire in the range the hand 
points to 6'. 

At the temperature suitable 
for putting bread into the oven 
the hand points to 12. After 
the first fifteen minutes the 
hand should move gradually 
backward half-way to three, 
where it should remain until 
the bread is baked. To sear over the outside of meat, 
or to cook wild ducks and small birds the hand should 
point to about 9. After the first half-hour roasts like 
beef and mutton should cook with the index in the 
vicinity of 12, back of it rather than beyond it. Custards 
and articles poached in water below the boiling point need 
a temperature indicated at about 2. With a little experience 
one can bake different varieties of cake in succession in an* 
oven whose heat is gauged to fit each case to a nicety. 

In this connection it may be noted that a coal fire is kept 
in good condition when it is so kept that it can be quickly 




38 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

regulated to meet the demands made upon it. Oftentimes, 
however, it is more economical, when a hot fire is wanted 
for a short time only, to keep the fire dormant, as it were, and 
use for the time being a gas or oil-range, and then transfer 
the article to the coal-range that has been kept at a moderate 
heat. But this is not always' practicable. 

COOK'S TIME-TABLE 

ROASTING OR BAKING MEATS AND FISH 

Beef, ribs or loin rare, per pound 8 to lo minutes. 

Beef, ribs, or loin well done, per pound 12 to i6 minutes. 

Beef, ribs, rolled, rare, per pound 12 to 15 minutes. 

Beef, ribs, rolled, well done, per poiuid 12 to 15 minutes. 

Beef, fillet, rare 20 to 30 minutes. 

Mutton, leg, rare, per pound 10 minutes. 

Mutton, leg, well done, per pound 14 minutes. 

Mutton, saddle, rare, without flank, per pound 9 minutes. 

Mutton, loin, rare, per pound 9 minutes. 

Mutton, forequarter, stuffed, per pound. 15 to 25 minutes. 

Lamb, well done, per pound 15 to 18 minutes. 

Veal, well done, per pound 18 to 20 minutes. 

Pork, well done, per pound 20 minutes. 

Venison, rare, per pound 10 minutes. 

Chicken, per pound 15 or more minutes. 

Turkey, 8 to 10 pounds 3 hours. 

Goose, 8 to 10 pounds 2 hours, or more 

Duck (domestic) i hour, or more. 

Duck (wild) 15 to 30 minutes. 

Grouse About 30 minutes. 

Small Birds i S to 20 minutes 

Pigeons (potted, or en casserole) 2 to 4 hours. 

Ham 4 to 6 hours. 

Fish, whole, as blue-fish, salmon, etc i hour, or more. 

Small fish and fillets 20 to 30 minutes. 

Baked beans with pork 6 to 8 hours. 

BROILING 

'Steak, I inch thick 4 to 10 minutes 

Steak, I 1-2 inches thick 8 to 15 mintjtes 

Lamb, or Mutton Chops 6 to 10 minutes 



COOK'S TIME TABLE 39 

Quails 8 to 10 minutes. 

Quails in paper cases 10 to 12 minutes. 

Squabs 10 to 12 minutes. 

Spring Chicken 20 minutes. 

Shad, blue-fish, etc 13 to 30 minutes. 

Slices of fish 12 to ij mimites. 

Small Fish, trout, etc S to 12 mimates. 

FRYING 

Whitebait, croquettes, fish-balls 1 minute. 

Muffins, fritters and doughnuts 3 to 5 minutes. 

Breaded Chops S to 8 minutes. 

Fillets of Fish 4 to 6 minutes. 

Smelts, brook trout, etc 3 to S minutes. 

^ BOILING MEAT AND FISH 

Fresh Beef 4 to 6 hours. 

Corned Beef (rib, or flank) 4 to 7 hours. 

Corned Beef, fancy brisket. 5 to 8 hours. 

Corned Tongue 3 to 4 hours. 

Leg, or Shoulder of Mutton 3 1-2 to s hours. 

Leg, or Shoulder of Lamb 2 to 3 hours. 

Turkey, per pound i S to 18 minutes. 

Fowl, 4 to 5 pounds 2 to 4 hours. 

Chicken, 3 pounds itoii-2 hours. 

■ Ham 4 to 6 hours. 

Lobster 25 to 30 minutes. 

Codfish and haddock, per pound 6 minutes. 

Halibut, whole, or thick piece, per pound 15 minutes. 

Blue-fish, bass, etc., per pound 10 minutes. 

Salmon, whole, or thick cut 10 to 15 minutes. 

Small fish 6 to 8 minutes. 

Clams and oysters 3 to 5 minutes. 

Braised Meats 3 to 5 hours. 

BOILING OF VEGETABLES, COFFEE, ETC. 

Asparagus 20 to 25 minutes. 

Beans, string, or shell 1 to 2 hours. 

Beets, new 45 minutes to i hour. 

Beets, old ■ 4 to 6 hours. 

Beet Gre;ens 1 hour, or longer. 

Brussels Sprouts 15 to 20 minutes, 



40 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cabbage 30 to 80 minutes, 

Carrots i hour, or longer. 

Cauliflower 20 to 30 minutes. 

Celery 2 hours, or longer. 

Com 10 to 20 minutes. 

Macaroni 20 to 60 minutes. 

Onions 45 minutes to 2 hours. 

Oyster Plant 4S to 60 minutes. 

Parsnips 30 to 45 minutes. 

Peas 20 to 60 minutes. 

Potatoes, white 20 to 30 minutes. 

Potatoes, sweet 15 to 25 minutes. 

Rice 20 to 30 minutes. 

Squash 20 to 30 minutes. 

Spinach 1 5 to 20 minutes. 

Tomatoes, stewed 15 to 20 minutes. 

Turnips 30 to 45 minutes. 

Coffee 3 to s minutes. 

BAKING OF BREAD, CAKE, CUSTARDS AND PUDDINGS 

Loaf Bread ; 40 to 60 minutes. 

Rolls, bisctiit 10 to 30 minutes. 

Muffins, yeast about 30 minutes. 

Muffins, baking powder 20 to 25 minutes. 

Sponge Cake, loaf 45 to 60 minutes. 

Plain Loaf Cake 30 to 90 minutes. 

Layer Cake 15 to 20 minutes. 

Fruit Cake 2, or 3 hours. 

Small Cakes 15 to 25 minutes. 

Custards 20 minutes to 1 hour. 

Steamed Brown-Bread 3 hours. 

Steanied Puddings 1 to 3 hours. 

Pie Crust 30 to 45 minutes. 

Potatoes 30 to 45 minutes. 

Scalloped and au Gratin Dishes 10 to 20 minutes. 

Timbales About 20 minutes 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS 

I meastire of liquid to i measure of flour for pour batters. 
I measure of liquid to 2 measures of flour for drop batters. 
I measure of liquid to 3 measures of flour for dough. 



TABLE OF PROPORTIONS, ETC. 41 

1-3 to 2 or more cakes of compressed yeast softened m 1-2 cup of 

water to i pint of liquid. 
1-2 a cup of liquid yeast to i pint of liquid, 
iteaspoonfulofsodaands 1-2 teaspoonfuls Of cream of tartar to i quart 

of flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder to i cup of flour. 
I teaspoonful of soda to i pint of thick sour milk. 
I teaspoonful of soda to i cup of molasses. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt to i quart of milk for custards. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt to i cup, or i teaspoonful to i quart of sauce, 

or soup. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of salt to i pint of flour. 
I teaspoonful of flavoring extract for a plain cake. 
T teaspoonful of flavoring extract to i quart of custard, or cream. 
I tablespoonful of flavoring extract to i quart of mixttu-e to be 

frozen. 
-j-3 a cup, or less of sugar to a quart of milk for custards, etc. 
I cup of sugar to i quart of milk or cream for cream ice. 
I cup of sugar for each dozen of yolks used in cream ice. 
4 eggs to I quart'of milk for plain cup custard. 
6 to 8 eggs to I quart of milk for moulded custards. 
1-4 a package,^or half an ounce of gelatine to scant pint of liquid. 

3 cups of water, more of milk, or stock, to i cup of rice. 

I ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of butter, 1-2 ounce (z tablespoonfuls) of 

flour to I cup of liquid for sauce. 
I ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of butter, 1-2 ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of 

flour to I pint of liquid for soups. 

1 cup of cooked meat, or fish cut in cubes to 3-4, or i whole cup of 
sauce. 

Meat from 3 1-2-pound chicken equals about i pint, or t pound. 

TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

3 teaspoonfuls of liquid equal i tablespoonful. 

3 tablespoonftds of liquid " 1-2 gill, or 1-4 a cup 

1-2 a cup equals i gill. 

2 gills equal i cup. 

2 cups " I pint. 

2 pints (4 cups) " I quart. 

4 cups of liquid " ^ quart. 

4 cups of flour " I pound, or i quart. 

2 cups of butter, solid " i pound, 



42 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



1-2 a cup of butter, solid. ...... .equals 1-4 a pound, 4 oz 



2 cups of granulated sugar equal i 

2 1-2 cups of powdered sugar " i 

I pint of milk, or water equals i 

1 pint of chopped meat (solid) " '. i 

10 eggs (without shells) equal i 

8 eggs, with shells 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. . 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour 

4 tablespoonfuls of coffee 

I tablespoonf ul of liquid 



pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

, I pound. 

I ounce. 

2 ounces, or 1-4 a cup. 

I ounce. 

I ounce. 

I ounce. 

,1-2 ounce. 



PART II 
CHAPTER I 
Beverages 

' Water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink." 

— Ancient Mariner, Coleridge 

' ' O Mirth and Innocence ! O Milk and Water ! 
Ye happy mixture of more happy days !" 

— BYRO^f 

WATER 

Water is that which slakes thirst and replaces the fluid loss 
of the body (Hoy) ; while food is that which replaces the solid 
loss of the body. While water and food would seem to be 
two separate and distinct compounds, water, in reality, is 
one of the largest (in amount) components in food and is 
rightfully classed as one of the Five Food Principles. The 
primal office of water is the slaking of thirst: thirst is the 
outward and visible sign that water is needed to carry on the 
functions of the body, to eliminate waste and to carry nutritive 
material where it is needed. By its evaporation on the surface 
water also regulates the temperature of the body. It is 
often said that those who drink water freely take on flesh. 
Water is not a nutrient, though it enters into the composition 
of every bodily tissue, but when water is imbibed freely and 
at the proper time the functions of elimination and nutrition 
are generally well carried out, and a condition of health is 
noted. Those who drink little water are liable to the for- 
mation of waste products^ 'faster than they are removed. 
Four pints of water are required daily by the average adult, 
less than one-third of which is supplied in food. Many an 
individual who rises in a languid state in the morning need 
seek for no other relief than in a glass of water on retiring 

43 



44 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

af night. This washes the w&ste products into the propei 
eliminating channels and insures a fresh and vigorous con- 
dition of body in the morning. The remedial effects of hot 
water are well known. Water, either hot or cold, preferably 
hot, is also of advantage, if it be taken upon rising, or at least 
an hour before eating; thus taken it washes out the stomach, 
and prepares it to receive food. Taken just at the meal 
time, before the lining of the stomach has time to absorb it, 
digestion is impeded by the weakening of the digestive fluids. 

PURE DRINKING WATER ESSENTIAL 

Water is a solvent as well as a carrier, and in this fact much 
danger lies. In its passage over or through the earth water 
may take up organic and inorganic matter that is detrimental 
to health, as when it comes in contact with sewage, which 
is liable to contain germs of disease. Often then this question 
of drinking-water is the hinge on w;hich the whole subject 
of health turns. Whatever a family, or an institution, has 
become habituated to is taken for granted to be all right; 
but. in the country, where sewers are unknown, the nearness 
of a cesspool or the stable-yard is a, constant menace to 
health. Indeed, in some soils, contiguity plays but a small 
part in the matter, for a well often drains a larger surface 
than is generally realized. 

A deep well, properly situated, where the rainfall, carrying 
organic matter, must be filtered through earth and stone to 
reach its level, would seem to offer a water that one might 
drink with safety; but this is a subject that must be given 
more than passing attention. Who would willingly take 
the chances of a water-borne typhoid case, or the listless 
inertia of malarial poisoning, as the result of a summer's outing. 
City water taken from pure sources and filtered through 
sand-beds should be reasonably pure. When doubt as to 
its purity exists, boiling is the reiAedy, since almost all germs 
of disease that are likely to be found in water are killed by 
the application of heat at the boiling point. Filters for 
home use need the most exact and painstaking attention 
daily, or the water passing through them is made more impure. 



TEA AND TEA MAKING 45 

Water from the hot-water faucet, be it needless to add, is not 
suitable for drinking or cooking purposes. 

TEA 

" Indeed, Madam, your ladyship is very sparing of your tea: I pro- 
test the last I took was no more than water bewitched." — Swift. 

COMPOSITION OF AVERAGE BLACK TEA, (CHURCH) 

In 100 parts there are: water 8.0, albuminoids 17.5, theine 3.^, 
tannin 17.5, chlorophyl and resin 4.5, essential oil 0.4; minor extrac- 
tives 8.6, cellulose, etc. 34.0, mineral matter 6.3. 

A cup of tea infusion has little or no nutritive value, but 
it increases respiratory action and incites the brain to greater 
activity. The stimulating effects of tea upon the nervous 
system are due to the essential oil and theine : the tannin pro- 
duces astringency. Tea was at first used medicinally, and 
was not indulged in as a beverage until the close of the seven- 
teenth century. "The first brewers of tea sat down to eat 
the leaves with butter and salt. " The only tea-gardens in 
the United States are at Pinehurst, S. C. Here tea culture 
is successfully carried on. The tea is shipped in closely 
sealed gilt-colored tin boxes containing pounds, or fractions 
thereof. Black and green teas are made from the same plants, 
but e3,ch is cured by a different process. Gunpowder is 
the name given to the finest green tea, pekoe to the finest 
black, both being made from the "first pickings. " In pick- 
ing tea for these varieties only the tips of the short and tender 
leaves- are taken. Flowery pekoe is made entirely from the 
unexpanded leaf bud, so young as to be entirely covered with 
down. If the first expanded leaf be included, it makes first 
and second "Souchong." 

Tea is for those who have passed the boundary line of 
youth; stimulants are not needed by the young, and are 
positively harmful to them. Rightfully prepared and used, 
both tea and coffee, on account of the sense of comfort and 
the mildly exhilarating influence, which they impart, may be 
considered beneficial to the race. Improperly made and 



46 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

drank to excess, they are one of the chief sources of many of 
the minor and chronic ills of mankind. 

The essential oil and theine of tea are the desirable elements ; 
the tannin which by hardening albumen interferes with the 
process of digestion, and which is also an astringent, is to 
be avoided. The one is avoided and the other secured by 
the manner in which tea is made. 

MAKING TEA 

Fresh-drawn filtered water, just at the boiling point, is the 
first item needful when a cup of tea is desired; the second item 
is a clean, dry heated teapot, preferably of china-ware. 
Never leave the tea leaves and the liquid left over in the teapot 
for a cup of tea midway between meals. Never drink liquid 
that has stood longer than five or six minutes upon tea leaves. 
At the first bubbling of the water rinse the teapot, already 
clean, and let stand a moment on the hot stove to dry; put 
in the tea leaves and pour over the now furiously bubbling 
water; put on the cover and let stand five minutes on the hot 
range without boiling. If made at the table, cover the pot 
with the "cosey. " After standing five minutes the flavor 
of the tea is impaired. 

PROPORTIONS OF TEA 

A teaspoonful of tea to a cup of water is considered a fair 
proportion ; this gives too strong a cup for some and not strong 
enough for others. When strength is desired, secure it by 
adding tea, and not by longer steeping. 

ACCOMPANIMENTS TO TEA 

If one be fond of the genuine flavor of tea nothing will 
be added to the infusion. The addition of cream and sugar 
is an. English custom ; that of slices of lemon, or lemon juice 
is a Russian usage, while candied cherries in tea is an 
American innovation. 



TEA AND TEA MAKING 47 

TEA FOR LARGE COMPANIES 

Put the tea leaves, inclosed in a sheer muslin bag, into the 
clean and scalded pot and add boiling water to make a strong 
infusion. Let stand five minutes, then remove the bag. 
Dilute to taste with water at the boiling point. 

ICED TEA 

Make the tea of r,ather more strength than ordinary, that 
is, use a larger proportion of tea to water than when the tea 
is to be served hot; pour from the leaves, after standing the 
usual five minutes, directly upon the cracked ice in the glasses. 
Or, make the tea of the usual strength and turn from the 
leaves into a fruit jar and let stand on the ice until thoroughly 
chilled. 

THE TEA BALL 

When tea is to be .made for the afternoon caller a cup or 
two at a time, the silver tea-ball, or the later teaspoon, which 
is used in the same manner as the " ball, " is very convenient. 
The ball, or spoon, holding the tea is placed in the cup ; freshly 
boiling water is poured in and the ball or spoon is removed 
when the color indicates that the infusion is 'sufficiently 
strong. 

A DELICIOUS CUP OF TEA (DR. SHEPARD, PINEHURST, S.C.) 

I 

Select a porcelain cup that is white inside, so as to show the 
color of the tea liquor. Warm, the dry cup; and saucer 
until rather uncomfortable to hold. Put in the cup a half to 
one teaspoonful (according to taste) of "Pinehurst" green 
tea, and cover it with a saucer and a cosey, if handy, for 
a few minutes. Having quickly brought freshly drawn 
water to boiling, fill the cup and cover it with the saucer 
and cosey. for three minutes. 

Then, without stirring or adding anything, drink only 
the upper half, or two-thirds of the tea liquor. 



48 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



COFFEE , 

Sabean odours from the spicy shore 
Of Arabic the blest. " 

COMPOSITION OF ROASTED COFFEE (CHURCH) 

In loo parts there are: water 2.0, albuminoids 12.5, caffeine i.o, fat 
or oil 12.5, tannin 5.0, minor extractives 14.4, cellulose, etc., 48.0, 
mineral matter 4.6 

The coffee plant, it is said, was introduced into Arabia 
in the fifteenth century, but it was not until 1652 that the 
first coffee-shop was opened in London. Napoleon, like 
Voltaire, was as excessively fond of coffee as Boswell informs 
US the great Dr. Johnson was of Mrs. Thrale's cup of tea. 

Drunk in moderation, without cream and sugar, coffee is 
a mild stimulant to gastric digestion, hence after-dinner, or 
black' coffee. Coffee also possesses a distinctly laxative 
effect. 

In most households a cup of coffee is considered the one 
thing needful at the breakfast hour. But how often this 
exhilarating beverage, that "comforteth the brain and heart 
and helpeth digestion' ' is made muddy and ill-flavoured ! To- 
day, although we really have less to do than our foremothers, 
the individual housekeeper scarcely ever takes the time to 
roast her own coffee. The operation is a rather nice one, 
simply because it requires attention. 

The object in roasting is to bring out the naturally delicate 
aroma of the coffee-bean; and the aroma, once developed, 
is to be retained. The Erench are said to accomplish this 
perfectly by adding to every three pounds of roasting berries 
a tablespoonful, each, of butter and powdered sugar. These, 
in melting,- spread over the bedns in a thin coating, and so 
confine the volatile aroma. The browned sugar also gives 
to the coffee a slight flavor of caramel, which is much prized 
by the French. 

In the absence of a revolving drum, a thick iron frying-pan 
is probably the best utensil for roasting coffee berries. In 
wholesale stores, where the coffee-berry is roasted, ground 



COPF-EE AND COFFEE MAKING 49 

ahd transformed into amber-coloured liquid to be tested by the 
buyer, a small quantity is quickly roasted in an ordinary corn- 
popper. After roasting, the berries, whether ground, or 
unground, must be set aside in an air-tight receptacle. This 
is essential, for two reasons: to hold within the aroma of the 
coffee, and to keep out the exhalations from other substances. 
Indeed, on account of the facility with which coffee appro- 
priates undesirable flavors, .the whole process, from the 
roasting to the serving, must be guarded. 

You may roast the berries "to the queen's taste," and 
grind them fresh every morning, and yet, if the golden Uquid 
be not prepared in the most immaculate of coffee-pots, with 
each .return of mottling a new disappointment awaits you. 

Now, it is not meant that one need possess a shining 
silver, or even a nickel-plated, coifee-pot, but the vessel thai 
does serve as a coffee-pot must be kept nearly, if not quite, 
as clean as the "plates" for a "pure culture of germs." In 
cleaning a coffee-pot, only fresh water and a cloth kept 
specially ■ for the purpose should be used. Never set the 
coffee-pot aside with coffee in it. Occasionally cleanse by 
boiling in it a solution of sal-soda. 

There is another point upon which at least one author 
lays much stress. Brillat-Savarin, in his "Physiology of 
Taste," says: "The Turks do not use a mill to grind the 
coffee. They break it up in mortars with wooden pestles. " 
^He also adds that, after carefully experimenting with the 
ground and the powdered coffee, and soliciting experts to test 
the two decoctions, the unanimous opinion of himself, and 
friends was that "the coffee' made with the pounded berry 
was evidently superior to that made with the ground powder. " 

BOILED COFFEE 

• 

In a coffee-pot that has been well-aired and well-scalded 
put twice as ttiany level tablespoonfuls of ground cofiee as 
there are cups to be served; add as many egg-shells, washed 
before the eggs were broken, as there are cups to be served; 
or the white of an egg may be used, that of one egg being 
sufficient to clear about seven tablespoonfuls of ground 



50 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

coffee. Add a tablespoonful of cold water for each cup of 
liquid desired, and mix thoroughly; add the requisite number 
of cups of freshly boiling water and let boil five minutes after 
boiling begins. Pour a little cold water — from a quarter 
to half a cup — down the spout, stir in one tablespoonful of 
fresh coffee, and set the pot where it will keep hot, without 
simmering, for ten minutes. The aroma is thought to be 
retained by filling the nozzle with tissue paper, before the 
boiling water is poured over the coffee^ If, at the end of 
ten minutes, any member of the family be not ready for coffee, 
pour the decoction off the grounds, cleanse the pot, return 
the coffee and keep it hot until wanted, then stir in a teaspoon- 
ful or more of fresh coffee for sake of the aroma. In the 
best hotels, coffee is made every fifteen minutes during the 
hours of serving meals, and none is served that has stood 
on the grounds for a longer period. 

FILTERED COFFEE 

After-dinner, or black coffee, is usually made in a "drip" 
coffee-pot, in which the boiling water drips through the fine- 
ground coffee that is held in a filter. To prepare: put a cup 
of fine-ground coffee in the filter, or strainer, of the coffee- 
pot, and set the pot in a dish of boiling water, if the means 
of keeping the liquid hot be not otherwise provided; pour 
into the strainer a quart of water, freshly drawn and heated 
just to the boiling point ; after the water filters through the 
coffee into the lower receptacle, pour off and return a second,' 
and, sometimes, a third time to the filter. When the in- 
fusion is of the required strength, pour from the receptacle 
into a hot coffee-pot, and serve without delay, preferably 
without cream, or sugar. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF COCOA AND CHOCOLATE AS 
PURCHASED (ATWATER) 

Water. Protein. Fat. Carbohydrates. Ash. Food Value 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent.perlb.Caloriea 

Cocoa 4.6 21.6 28.9 37.3 7.2 2.320 

Chocolate.... 5.9 12-9 48.7 30.3 2.2 2.860 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 51 

In dealing with tea and coffee we are considering articles 
that in themselves, as we use them, have absolutely no food 
value, articles that are prized by us simply on account of 
their stimulating qualities, but in all preparations made 
from cocoa-beans, or seeds, the beans themselves, in a pre- 
pared state, are consumed with the beverage, and analysis 
shows that the liquid is not only a beverage, but also a food 
of high nutritive value. It is on this account that a cup of 
cocoa or chocolate is a substantial addition to a light meal, 
as is the breakfast or luncheon quite often. 

Cocoa is classed with tea and coffee because of its alkaloid 
principle, bromine, which, though milder and less stimulating, 
corresponds to the caffeine of coffee and the theine of tea. 
Cocoa-beans, like those of the coffee-shrub, are roasted before 
being ground or broken, and the process, as in roasting 
coffee, changes the starch in the seeds to dextrine. 

In the process of transforming the cocoa-beans into the 
cocoa of commerce, other changes are also made: the woody 
fibre and other insoluble matters, and a portion of the fat 
are removed, and starch and sugar are added, to change 
still more the proportion of fat to the other ingredients. 
Chocolate differs from many preparations of cocoa, in that 
less of the cocoa butter is removed, which necessitates the 
addition of a greater proportion of starch. And this in turn 
calls for cooking. When the excess of butter is obviated 
by some other means than the use of starch, then simply 
adding boiling water or milk to the preparation will suffice. 
Chocolate differs still further from cocoa, in that, crushed by 
heated rollers, the ingredients form a paste which may be 
pressed into moulds. Chocolate is often flavored; cinnamon, 
cloves, musk, and vanilla are used for this purpose. 

CRACKED COCOA, OR COCOA NIBS 

2-3 a cup of cracked cocoa beans. 3 pints of boiling water. 

Pour the boiling water over the "nibs" and let boil gently 
three hours, or more. Serve with cream and sugar. This 
decoction is weak, and might fitly be called " caiftbric " cocoa. 
Taken in small quantity it is good in cases of weak digestion, 



52 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

or when a hot beverage is needed to raise the temperature 
of the stomach to the proper degree for digestion. On suc- 
ceeding days add more nibs and boiling water to those first 
used, and boil again. Repeated cooking improves the bev- 
erage. Cocoa shells are prepared in the same way. 

BREAKFAST COCOA 

2 cups of scalded milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of cocoa powder. 

2 cups of boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler; mix the sugar and cocoa, 
stir in the boiling water, gradually, and let boil five or six 
minutes; turn the liquid into the hot milk, and beat with a 
whisk, or egg-beater, five minutes. Serve with additional 
sugar and cream, if desired. 

CHOCOLATEl 

2 ounces of chocolate. i cup of boiling water. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 3 cups of scalded milk. 

Break the chocolate into pieces and melt over hot water; 
add the sugar and boiling water, and stir until smooth and 
glossy; let cook five or six, minutes; add part of the milk, 
and when well mixed pour into the rest of the milk ; let stand 
over the fire five or six minutes, beating meanwhile with 
a whisk or egg-beater, to make frothy and prevent a skin from 
forming on the surface. 

CREAM AND FLAVORING 

On occasion a flavoring of vanilla, or cinnamon, one or 
both, is a pleasing additioil to a pot of cocoa, or chocolate. 
If cinilamon-bark be uSed, let it steep in the milk while scald- 
ing, the latter. Add ground cinnamon to the sugar and 
. cocoa-powder,or to the melted chocolate. Whipped or frothed 
cream may be added to the liquid just before removing from 
the fire, and also to each cup as it is served. 

MILK 
CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF WHOLE MILK (ATWATER) 

Water 87.0, protein 3.3, fat 4.0, carbohydrates .5, ash .y^ calories 325. 
Milk, though classed as a beverage, is in reality a food; 



MILK 53 

and when it 'is used as a part of a meal the quantity of food 
ingested should be diminished accordingly. Milk is a perfect 
food for the young of all milk-giving animals, but on account 
of the large proportion of water in composition it is not so 
well adapted to the needs of the adult. Too much liquid 
would be taken in the effort to secure a proper amount of the 
needful fqod elements. Or, in other words, taken alone, 
milk is not a well-balanced food. The protein is represented 
by albumen and casein, the carbohydrates by milk sugar. 
When milk is taken into the stomach, rennin, a digestive 
ferment found in the gastric juice, coagulates the albumen 
and casein, thus forming what is called curds. If cow's milk 
be taken into the stomach, a glassful at a time, these curds 
will be large and not easily acted upon by the digestive fluids. 
To remedy this, milk should be "eaten"— that is, swallowed 
a teaspoonful at a time, or it may be diluted with lime-water, 
though barley-water is preferable. (See page 645.) Lime-^ 
water by its alkalinity partly neutraUzes the acid of the.gastric 
juice, and thus weakened the curdling process goes on more 
slowly. But such interference with the natural process of 
digestion cannot be recommended. Eat the milk, or dilute 
it with barley-water, or, in the case of adults, sip the milk 
slowly, eating between the sips bread or some other form of 
farinaceous food- Adults living on milk have no color, 
the milk being without iron in composition. Infants have 
iron stored in the liver that supplies the system for a time. 

CREAM AND SKIMMED MILK 

Fundamentally, in structure, milk is an emulsion consisting 
of fine oil globules swimming in a colorless fluid. These 
oil globules are called cream, milk fat, or butter, and are 
the most easily digested of all fats. Cream skimme4 by, 
hand from milk contains almost all the fat present in the 
milk — for, being lighter than the other constituents, it rises 
to the surface — and also a small proportion of the casein. 
The skimmed milk contains most of the casein, albumen, and 
milk-sugar, with the water, and though it contains a large 
proportion of water, it is still nutritious. In laree institutions. 



54 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

hospitals, schools, etc, whole milk rather than cl-eam should 
be purchased, since the skimmed milk can be used to increase 
the nutritive value of many a dish. In buying cream, the 
cost of the milk from which the cream was taken is included. 

CARE OF MILK 

f 

Milk readily absorbs odors, flavors and impurities; 
it is one of the best of soils for the growth and multi- 
plication of certain disease germs. Bacteria are intro- 
duced from dust arising from the cow's body, from the cloth- 
ing or hands of the milker, from the milk vessels, or from the 
water in which these have been washed. The bacteria of 
typhoid fever, diphthisria and tuberculosis may be transmitted 
in this way. Once admitted to the milk, they begin to 
multiply: warmth is favorable to their growth, hence it is 
desirable to cool milk soon after it is drawn and to keep 
it at as low a temperature as possible. The souring of milk 
in a thjmder-storm is due, not to the storm, but to the warm 
sultry weather preceding, which is favorable to the growth 
of bacteria. If kept thoroughly chilled milk is not affected 
by storms. Besides being kept cool, milk that is delivered 
in bottles and stored in refrigerators with other food should 
be tightly sealed. If the bottles are to be opened several 
times and the caps cannot be replaced, close the neck of the 
bottle with cotton. Since most disease germs are destroyed 
by heat, at the temperature of boiling water, milk may be 
made free from all living organisrhs — such milk is said to be 
sterile. 

SCALDING MILK 

The digestibility of albumen in milk, as in all other sub- 
^stances, is diminished, when it is heated to the boiling point ; 
on thiS' account in cookery milk is scalded rather than boiled. 
This is done best in a double-boiler. The milk is scalded, 
when small bubbles appear on the surface next to the vessel. 
The temperature is about i6o° Fahr. If put directly over 
the fire and left, milk is liable to boil over. Milk contains 
so much solid matter that, in boiling, the bubbles below are 



PASTEURIZED MILK 55 

of such consistency that they hold up those above, or bubbles 
are pilel up on bubbles until the dish overflows. 

STERILIZED MILK 

Milk is sterilized by heating to a temperature of 212° Fahr., 
and keeping at that temperature about thirty minutes, some 
say an hour and a half. To remain either pasteurized or 
sterilized, milk must be kept secure from coniact with outside 
gerpas. 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

Sterilized milk does not nourish or agree with those who 
take it as does fresh milk; the albumen is made indigestible 
by the high degree of heat, hence pasteurization (from the 
bacteriologist Pasteur) is regarded as preferable. Pasteurized 
milk has been freed from all harmful bacteria temporarily. 
Milk is pasteurized by heating it to a temperature between 
140° and 167° Fahr., and keeping it at that temperature 
for about thirty minutes. At this comparatively low 
degree of temperature milk remains practically fresh and 
uncooked. 

TO PASTEURIZE MILK 

> Put the milk into glass fruit-jars, adjust the covers, but 
do not turn them down; set the jars on the rack in a steam 
kettle (aluminum-ware is good for this purpose, because it 
holds the heat), and fill the kettle with water to the height 
of the milk in the jar. Heat the water until the thermometer 
in the water-bath registers 171° Fahr. The temperature of 
the milk will be several degrees lower. Keep the kettle 
covered. Now remove the kettle to a place where the water 
will remain at this temperature. Put two stove-lids under 
the kettle, or remove to a table and throw over it a heavy 
comfortable, — cotton wadding is a non-conductor of heat, — 
and allow it to stand thus -for half an hour. Now cool as 
quickly as possible, but gradually at first, or the bottles will 
break; then set away the jars in a cool place. The double 
boiler may be used, but the steam kettle is tnore convenient 



S6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

for the use of the thermometer, and the glass jars are propel 
vessels in which to store milk. If a double-boiler be used, 
let it be a large one, so that the water in the bath may rise 
to the level of the milk. 

TO PASTEURIZE MILK WITHOUT A THERMOMETER 

For this is needed some sort of a utensil having a rack to 
, hold the cans, or bottles up out of the water. The ordinary 
steam-kettle answers this purpose, but ,any saucepan of 
sufficient height, in which a rack can be fitted, is satisfactory. 
Pour water into the bottom of the pan below the rack of 
bottles and let boil twenty minutes after boiling begins. The 
steam surrounding the bottles, or jars of milk, heats them. 
Cool as quickly as possible; after a little while they may be 
set into a pail of cold water. Cover the jars, or close the 
bottles with cotton wadding, before heating the milk. 

KOUMISS 

I quart of fresh milk. i tablespoonful of brewer's yeast 

I 1-2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, or (fresh), or 

better 1-3 a cake of compressed 

I tablespoonful of syrup at 3 5° S. yeast softened in i tablespoonfvd 

gauge. of lukewarm water. 

Heat the milk to a tempefature of 100° Fahr. ; add the 
sweetening and yeast, and stir until thoroughly mixed, then 
turn into bottles that can be tightly corked. Let the bottles 
be filled to within about two inches of their full height. Cork 
and tie in the corks securely. Let stand at a temperature be- 
tween 60° and 70° Fahr. ten hours. Chill before using. A 
tap for drawing the koumiss insures against the loss of much 
of the contents of each bottle. 

EGG-NOGG 

12 eggs. I quart of milk. 

24 (level) tablespoQjifuls of pow- .6 wine-glasses of Jamaica Rum. 
dered sugar. 6 wine-glasses of brandy. 

Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately. When 
the yolks are light add the sugar by spoonfuls, continuing to 



• FRUIT BEVERAGES S7 

beat until the mixture is very light. Then add the liquor, 
the brandy first, the first two glasses, drop by drop, and the 
rest gently; then add the milk and turn into a punch-bowl; 
stir in part of the stiff-beaten whites of the eggs and let the 
rest look like a white foam on the top of the liquid. This 
is improved by standing a few hours in a cool place. 

EGG-NOGG, BALTIMORE STYLE (ADOLPHE MEYER) 

Beat the yolks of three eggs and one-fourth a nutmeg 
grated, with two ounces of powdered sugar, to the consistency 
of cream ; add, pouring in quietly the while, half a gill of brandy 
or rum and one glass of Marsala or brown sherry; add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and, when well 
incorporated, a gill of cream and a pint of milk. 

FRUIT DRINKS 
LEMONADE (ONE GLASS) 

Mix; the juice of half a lemon and two or three teaspoonfuls 
of sugar (sugar-syrup is better if at hand) ; mix until the sugar 
is dissolved, then fill with cold water. 

LEMONADE 

I quart of syrup at 35°. 2 quarts of water. 

, 6 lemons, juice and yellow rind. 

Pour the hot syrup over the yellow rinds of the lemon, from 
which every particle of the white portion has been removed, 
and let stand until cold. If the flavor be desired less strong, 
use the syrup cold, or less of the yellow rind. Add the juice 
to the water and mix with the cold syrup. All fruit juice, ex- 
cept, perhaps, pineapple, currant, and grape, is more agreeable, 
if uncooked. Let the lemonade stand on the ice in a closed 
jar two hours before serving. 

ORANGEADE 

I quart of syrup at 35°. 3 lemons, juice only. 

6 oranges, juice and yellow rind. 2 quarts of water. 
Prepare as lemonade. 



58 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CURRANTADE 

1 quart of red currants. i quart of syrup at 35°. 
1-2 pint of raspberries. 2 quarts of water. 

I lemon, juice only. 

Crush the currants and raspberries, add the water and 
filter the whole through a jelly bag. Add the syrup, cold, 
to the filtered juice, turn into jars, close tightly, and let stand 
on the ice two hours before serving. Gouff^ recommends 
filtering the fruit juice for all jellies and beverages through 
a jelly bag with paper reduced to a pulp by washing it in 
plenty of water. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

2 cups of sugar. The juice of 3 or 4 lemons. 
T pint of water. A grated pineapple. 

I quart of water (about) . 

Boil the sugar and pint of water ten minutes ; let cool, and 
add the lemon juice and the pineapple; let stand two hours,' 
add the quart of water (charged water preferre4) and serve 
at once. 

STRAWBERRYADE 

I quart of syrup at 35° (Syrup gauge) Juice of 3 lemons. 
I pint of strawberry juice. 2 quarts of water. 

Mash the berries, add the lemon juice, and strain into the 
cold syrup; add to the water, and proceed as in lemonade. 
Additional water will be needed in this and the other similar 
beverages, 

FRUIT PUNCH 

I pineapple, or . i quart of strawberry, currant, or 

I can of grated pineapple. grape juice. 

3 cups of boiling water. ' i bottle of charged ApoUinaris 
I cup of tea freshly made. water. 

The juice of 6 lemons. i quart of sugar, or better 3 cups of 

The juice of 10 oranges, syrup at 35°. , 

4 quarts of water. 

Grate the pineapple, and boil with the water twenty min- 
utes, or longer, then strain through a jelly-bag, pressing out 



FRUIT BEVERAGES S9 

all the juice ; let cool and add the rest of the fruit juice, the 
tea and the syrup. If sugar be used, add a pint of water to 
the sugar and let boil six or eight minutes ; cool before using. 
Add the Apollinaris water just before serving. It is better 
to make the punch a few hours before the time of serving, 
then let stand, closely covered, on ice to chill and ripen. Then, 
when ready to serve, add the water and the Apollinaris. 
Strawberries, mint leaves, or slices of banana are often added 
as a garnish. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB 

I quart of cider vinegar. 6 quarts of red raspberries 

I pint of sugar to each pint of juice. 

Put three quarts of the berries into an earthen jar, and 
pour over them the vinegar; let stand about twenty-four 
hours, then strain through a jelly bag, pressing out all the 
liquid; pour this liquid over a second three ,quarts of fresh 
berries and let stand again twenty-four hours; again 
strain through a jelly bag expressing the juice. Add the 
sugar as above and let boil twenty minutes. Store as canned 
fruit, or in bottles. To serve, use one-fourth a cup of the 
shrub to three-fourths a cup of water. 

GRAPE WINE (MARGARET WELLS, OHIO) 

Wash and stem the grapes and squeeze through a coarse 
cloth. Allow one quart of soft water to each three quarts of 
juice, and three pounds of brown sugar to four quarts of 
juice. Let stand six weeks in an open vessel, covered with' 
a light cloth, to exclude the dust, and then bottle. 

CLARET CUP 

I quart of claret wine. 1-2 a cup of brandy. 
I quart of charged Apollinaris 

■vsrater. Sugar syrup to sweeten. 

I pint of water, or tea. Mint leaves, if liked. 

The juice of 6 lemons. Strawberries, or pieces of pineapple 

Mix all the ingredients, save the Apollinaris, the mint, 



6o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and the fruit; chill on ice. At serving add the other ingred- 
ients. 

HOT CLARET PUNCH 

Heat a bottle of claret with half a cup of sugar, a piece of 
stick cinnamon, half a dozen cloves, and the juice of two 
lemons; stir while the sugar dissolves, strain and serve. 



CHAPTER n 



Eggs 

is necessi 
•AVERAGE COMPOSITION (aTWATER) 



"To make an omelette it is necessary to break eggs." 

— French Proverb. 





Refuse 
Per 
Cent. 


Whole ezs . . . . 


. .11.2 


Boiled whites . 




Boiled yolks 





Proteitt 
Water (by difference) 
Per Per 
Cent. Cent. 


Cent. 


Ash 
Pet 

Cent. 


Fuel Value 

Per Potind 

Calories 


^S-5 I3-I 


9-3 


•9 


63s 


86. 2 13.0 


. '.^ 


.6 


250 


49 -S 16. 1 


33-3 


I . I 


I-70S 



It was our own Emerson, who said: "There is a best way 
of doing everjrthing, even if it be to boil an egg. " And yet 
with eggs the best way is not "to boil" at all, but to cook 
at a temperature below the boiling point of water, or, to be 
exact, not "above 180° Fahr. An egg possesses its highest 
nutritive value in a raw state, and the higher the temperature 
to which it is subjected and the longer it is exposed to heat 
the more indigestible the albumen becomes. The white of 
an egg is nearly pure albumen, the yolk, though rich in albu- 
men, contains about 30 per cent, of fat, and is also rich in 
sulphur. There are no uric acid derivatives in eggs. 

No other than fresh-laid eggs can be served at the break- 
fast table with full satisfaction. iVs the quality of the yolk, 
on account of its composition, is soon impaired, it should 
not be retained in the stomach longer than the time of normal 
digestion. If the egg, when eaten, be no longer, fresh, or if, 
for any other cause, its digestion be impeded, derangement 
of the stomach and intestines is liable to follow. 

Eggs are digested more readily, when the whites and yolks 
have been mixed thoroughly before cooking, as in scrambled 
eggs and omelettes; for, in this case, th6 white is not taken into 
the stomach in a separate hard mass. 



62 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Bilious people are accustomed to discard eggs in any'form; 
but doubtless such may eat the whites of fresh eggs, especially 
when they are served in the form of a delicately baked custard, 
since, in this case, the white;, which is used alone, is broken 
up by beating and then is diluted by the other ingredients. 
It is the richness of the yolks that occasions disturbance; 
thirty parts of yolk in one hundred are fat, or oil, while the 
white contains but two parts of fat in one hundred. 

An egg is probably at its best when about twelve hours 
old. The shell of a fresh, egg is full, but as the egg grows 
older, the water in composition evaporates through the 
porous shell, leaving a space, and the air penetrating causes 
the contents to deteriorate. When first laid the yolk is sur- 
rounded by the white, but evaporation leaves it nearer the 
shell, and, if the egg be not left with the small end downwards, 
the yolk from its weight will soon touch the shell, and con- 
tact with the air quickly spoils it. 

HOW TO TELL FRESH EGGS 

A fresh egg feels heavy and sinks in water; the dark spot 
that represents the yolk should be in the centre of the mass. 
No audible sound is made, when a fresh'egg is shaken; shake 
one less fresh, and the beating against the shell is perceptible. 

HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS 

To preserve eggs for any length of time, exclude the air 
by covering them with fat, wax, strong brine, or lime-water; 
or pack them in sawdust, or meal. 

Eggs may be kept fresh in a cool, dry place for months by 
packing them, small ends down, in a bed of ordinary coarse 
salt. The shells should not come in contact, and each egg 
should stand upright. The salt holds the egg firm in position 
and excludes the air. Fine coarse-salt, such as is often used 
in freezing, is adapted to this purpose. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS FOR USE IN WINTER. (MRS. 
KIMBALL, STOCKBRIDGE) 

Into each three gallons of water mix one pint of fresh- 



EGGS 63 

slacked -lime and one-half pint of common- salt; put in the 
eggs and cover with a board sprinkled with lime and salt. 

TO KEEP WHITES AND YOLKS AS "LEFT OVER" 

In recipes where only yolks are called for, the whites may 
be kept, if carefully covered, in a cool place, for some days. 
When yolks are left over, they cannot be kept as long as the 
whites. The yolks should be beaten in a bowl, or cup and 
carefully covered with a saucer. When they are required, 
they will be found in much better condition than when 
they are set away without beating (covered with cold 
water). When a recipe calls for whites of eggs, and oiie is 
to have no immediate use for yolks, drop the yolks very care- 
fully, as the 'shells are broken, into hot water, "just off the 
boil," and, after they are cooked throughoitt, set aside to 
serve in soup, one in each J)late. Or, the cooked yolks may 
be rubbed through a sieve as a garnish for a salad, or for the 
top of a dish of cream-toast, or meat warmed in a sauce. 

CURIOUS WAYS OF COOKING EGGS 

Chef Adolphe Meyer in his little book on eggs, among other 
methods of cooking, aludes to two that might be tried by 
"campers." 

EGGS COOKED IN HOT ASHES 

" In countries where wood fire is constantly used, the cot- 
tager half buries his eggs in an upright position in hot ashes, 
upon the hearth, and when a clear drop oozes on the top of 
the shell the eggs are fit to be eaten. " 

EGGS COOKED WITHOUT FIRE 

"The most singular method of 'cooking eggs is that attri- 
buted to the Egyptian shepherds, who, it is said, were able 
to cook eggs without fire, by placing them in a sling, and 
whirling them around so rapidly that the friction of the air 
heated them to the exact degree required. " 

Aside from the above and other singular exceptions, and 



64 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

discarding . combinations of egg; milk, starchy ingredients, 
etc., eggs are cooked in one of the following ways: , 

I Boiled (in the shell) 

{In water, stock, etc. 
Shirred (in cocottes, or cases) 
Moulded (in timbale cilps) 

3 Fried. 

C Omelet. 

4 Yolk and White mixed. | 

( Scrambled. 

BOIL&C EGGS 

The albumen of an egg cooked in boiling water three min- 
utes, the time usually indicated to secure the regulation 
"soft-boiled" egg, becomes tough near the shell, while the 
yolk has scarcely felt the heat; eggs thus cooked cannot be 
called palatable, and, in part, are not readily digested. 
'When cooked five minutes, the period considered necessary 
for "hard-boiled eggs," a hard, leathery mass results that is 
utterly unfit for other than the strongest stomach. The 
albumen of an egg begins to coagulate at 134° Fahr. ; at 160° 
Fahr. it is white throughout, but tender and jelly-like ; this 
consistency it loses at 200° Fahr., while at 212° Fahr. it be- 
comes' tough and indigestible. 

In actual practice the white of an egg cooked by standing 
half an hour in a vessel containing one pint of water kept at 
160° is firm yet delicate and jelly-like, while the yolk is thick 
and almost firm. Then, if the water about the eggs could 
be kept at t6o* Pahr.j while the various degrees of consistency, 
desired by the different members of the family were secured, 
the breakfast problem, as far as satisfactorily cooked eggs 
are concerned, would be solved. But this involves too close 
attention for the general cooking of eggs. It may be carried 
out to perfection only in the occasional family ; it may, how- 
ever, be approximated vfery accurately as follows : For each 
egg put one pint of boiling water into a hot saucepan (less 
will do where several eggs are to be cooked), gehtly loWet' the 
eggs into the water and let stand, uncovered, on the back of 
the range, where the heat will neither be increased nor dimin- 



ished, eight or ten minutes. If wished very firm, let stand 
forty or forty-five minutes, covering the saucepan after the 
first five minutes. 

BOILjED ^GG^ UQ. 2 

Ailow pne quart of boiling wg,ter to four eggs. Pour the 
waiter into an eg,rthen jar that has been previously heated, 
put in the eggs, cover the di§h and -jvrap in a heavy flannel 
cloth. The eggs will be soft-boiled in six minutes, more solid 
in ten minutes. 

BOILED EGGS NO. 3 

Place the eggs covered with cqld water over the fire and 
remove at the first boil. 

EGGS FOR GAIINISHINQ 

Let the eggs stand in water at 160° forty minutes; let stand 
in cold water ten or fifteen minutes, then remove the shell 
and cut with a sharp ^nife as desired. Soft-cooked eggs, 
remgved wliole from the shells, are often served with purees 
and saiices in the place of poa,ched eggs. 

STUFFED TOMATOES WITH SOFT-BOILED EGGS 

Rather more than half-fill tomatoes, from which the centres 
have been taken, with equal parts of cooked, chopped mush- 
room-trimmings and ham, moistened slightly with mushroom 
liquor, or the tomato taken from the centre. Season the 
mixture with salt and pepper and bind with the yolk of an 
egg, if desired, befofje putting in place. B^kg the topiatpes 
unt;l ;tepder. but re;tain the shape, if possible. Whep re3,dy 
to serve, dispose ip. each tomato a soft-boiled egg, shpjled 
ap,d reheated in hot water. Garnish the dish with the musli- 
Toorp. caps, from which the tfimmings were take:;, brpil^ed 
apd placed on rounds of toast. ^erv,e with cream sauce 
ap^rt, or poured over each egjg- 



66 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

HARD-BOILED EGGS WITH VARIATIONS 

HARD-BOILED EGGS A LA BECHAMEL 

Have ready finger-length strips of toast to make a square; 
place these side byside and pour over them a cup of Bechamel 
sauce; pass the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs through a sieve 
upon the top of the square and surround the sides with the 
whites of the eggs, cut in eighths lengthwise. 

BEAUREGARD EGGS 

Prepare a cup of white, or cream sauce, and stir into this 
the whites of four "hard-boiled eggs," chopped fine. Toast 
and arrange in a serving-dish bits of bread, cut to liken the 
petals of a daisy, having the petals about three inches in 
length. Spread the sauce on the buttered toast and press the 
yolks, seasoned with salt and pepper, in the centre to form 
the centre of the daisy. Garnish with parsley between the 
petals. 

EGG VERMICELLI 

Spread rounds of moistened, or buttered,toast with the above 
white mixture and sift the yolks over the top. Mix chopped 
chicken, ham, or mushrooms into the sauce, if convenient. 

EGG LOAF WITH ASPARAGUS 

Cooked asparagus tips. Onion jtiice. 

I cup of white-sauce. Salt and pepper. 

4 "hard-boiled eggs. " Cooked asparagus. 

Yolks of 6 eggs and i whole egg. White-sauce. 

Use cream, or chicken stock and cream, in preparing the 
white sauce; add the hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, one cup 
of cooked asparagus tips, the yolks and whole egg, beaten 
light, (four well-beaten eggs may be substituted) and salt and 
pepper to taste ; turn into a pint charlotte mould, or a bowl, 
thickly buttered and lined with cooked asparagus tips. Cook, 
standing in a dish of hot water, until the centre is firm. Let 
stand a few moments, then turn from the mould. Serve 



EGGS, STUFFED, ETC. 67 

with drawn butter, or HoUandaise sauce, to which a few 
asparagus tips may be added. If a charlotte mould be 
used, fit a buttered paper into the bottom; arrange the aspar- 
agus tips ixx contact, or at intervals one with another. 

EGG, OR EASTER CROQUETTES 

1-4 a cup of butter. i egg uncooked. 

1-2 a cup of flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 

1 cup of chicken stock. 8 or 10 "hard-boiled" eggs. 
1-4 a cup of cream. Mushrooms, or oysters. 

Prepare a sauce with the butter, flour, stock and cream; 
add salt and pepper, the uncooked egg, beaten light, and the 
cooked whites, chopped, and yolks passed through a sieve; 
chill thoroughly, then form into egg-shaped croquettes with 
a bit of cooked mushroom, or a parboiled oyster in the centre 
of each. Egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in deep fat. (See 
Croquettes, pages 25-26.) Serve in a nest of parsley. Four eggs, 
with an equal bulk of fresh mushrooms, broken in pieces and 
saut6d five minutes in butter, are preferable as far as savor 
is concerned. 

STUFFED EGGS AU GRATIN 

Cut six hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise; remove and 
sift the yolks, then add an equal quantity of cold boiled ham, 
with chicken, or tongue pounded to a paste, half a teaspoonful, 
each, of paprika and mixed mustard, a few drops of onion- 
juice, and uncooked yolk of egg, or sauce, as needed to shape. 
With this fill the whites and press together corresponding 
halves. Put three-fourths a cup of bread, cream, or tomato- 
sauce in a buttered gratin dish, and arrange the eggs in the 
sauce, pouring three-fourths a cup over them; sprinkle over 
the top half a cup of coarse bread-crumbs sauted in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and set the dish in the oven to reheat. 

STUFFED EGGS WITH SALAD 

12 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

2 teaspoonfuls of French mustard. 1-2 a cup of cold-boiled ham, ot 
I tablespoonful of lemon juice. tongue. 

Salt and Cayenne. 



68 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cook the eggs as for garnishing, page 65, tjien cut in halvfis 
lengthwise ; remove the yolks and rub ito q, smooth p^ste with 
the oil and seasonings ; add the ham or tongue, fine-chopped, 
and mix thoroughly. Fill the space in the white? with this 
mixture, rounding it to resemble a whole yolk. Serve on a 
bed of water-cress dressed with French dressing. 

STUFFED EGGS FOR PICNICS 

Prepare the eggs as for stuffed eggs with salad, biit cut 
the eggs in halves, crosswise, instead of lengthwise ; snake the 
mixture level with the edge, of the h3,lyes of egg; brush over 
the edge .of one white -vyith uncooked white of egg and press 
the corresponding half closely upon it ; let stand to dry. Cut 
white tissue paper into pieces six inches square, ffin^e the 
opposite sides, and roll an egg in each p^per, ^ding -v^rith tl^ 
egg a sentiment or quotation withiii on a l^ijt pf paper; tyrisj:, 
the fringed ends in the saipe mp^nner as "caijdy secret?." 
Serve in a small baskeit lined vith ferns. 

STUFFED EGGS, FRIED 

Have eggs cooked ^n^ shells as "Eggs for Garnishing," 
on page 65. With a tin tube, half an-inch in diameter, remove 
a cylindrical piece of white from the pointed end of each 
egg: then with a small vegetable spoon empty the whites 
of yolks. Pound the yolks with Bemaise, or Hollandaise 
sauce, adding cooked mushrooms, chopped fine ; fill the eggs 
with this mixture and put the pieces of white back in place; 
egg-and-bread crumb and fry, to a pale straw color, in deep 
fat. Serve with Soubise, or tomato-sauce. 

HARD-BOILED EGGS WITH NOODLES AND MUSHROOMS 

Arrange layers of cooked-and-blanched noodles, mush- 
room caps, broken in pieces and simmered in milk or brotji, 
and hard-boiled eggs, .cut in slices, in a gratin dish. Cover 
each layer with jBechamel sauce, reduced with the mushroom 
liquor. SprinMe the whole with me:lte4 butter and g;r,aj;ed 
Parmesan cheese, and reheat in a hot ipyen. Garnish with 
whole mushrooms and slices of egg. 




STUFFED EGGS FOR PICNICS. (See page 58.) 



.^i/^~%^' 




EGG OR EASTER CROQUETTES. (See page 67.) 




POACHED EGGS WITH SPINACH A LA CREME. 
(See page 70.) 



EGGS, POACHED 69 



POACHED EGGS 

Eggs are poaclied by cooking in wate* Uft&t they have 
been taken hath the shfells. Without doubt, the idea of 
"poaching," as used in cookery, applies pfiiti*fily to the 
direct appUcation of heated wat«r without the intervention, 
as in the case of eggs, of the shell, or an intermediate vessel; 
thus we poach eggs, quenelles, or meringUe, directly iil the 
water. But the term poaching has cotrie to be applied to the 
cookiilg of ail articles containing eggs, either in the oveii or oh 
the top of the range, m dishes that are surrounded with hot 
water. Two things are essential to the perfection of dishes 
cooked by poaching; first, the dish containing the food should 
be set on a trivet — several folds of paper answer admirably — 
that it may not come in contact with the vessel coiitaiiiing the 
heated water. Secondly, the water in which the cooking 
is to be done should be at the toiling point when it is poured 
about the dish containing the food, but it should iiot be 
allowed to boil thereafter. 

But to return to poached eggs. Kitchiner says that "the 
cook who wishes to displsLy her skill in poaching must en- 
deavor to pfO'cttre eggs that hatye beert laid a comple of days. " 
The white df new-laid eiggs is milky, easily dissolved and 
separated in water, but, on the Mher hand, if too stale, the 
cell-walls do not reinain firm, and the eggs flatten out. Kitch- 
iner probably is about right. When poached to perfection 
the egg throughoiit is jelly^likd, the golden yolk just showing 
through a "transparent veil" of white. To secure this con- 
dition brush over the bottom of an iron frying-pan with 
bttttfer, or oil, theft partly fill with boilitlg Watet, adding salt, or 
a littlfe lemon jdce, or Vinegdr; bfeSk the eggS one after 
ailothei- into & ctip and tiitti tUttn iritO the Water, w'hich ghotild 
ilot be let bbil, Of eveii sittiitier. The top of the yolk shcrtild 
slightly emefge froni tile waiet; if the yolk be coveted, care- 
fully dip out some of the water; if tOO inuch is visible, add 
more watfef very c^afefuUy, so as not to disturb. the eggs; let 
stand until the egg is cooked to the consistency desired, then 
remove with a skimmer arid arrange on slices of bread toasted, 



70 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

after removing the crusts, and buttered. If the eggs be of 
proper age and poached carefully, they will not need trimming. 
It is an open question whether trimming ever improves their 
appearance. Add a few bits of water-cress, or parsley, to 
complete the dish. 

POACHED EGGS, FRENCH STYLE ' 

Eggs poached, French style resemble in appearance and 
shape a soft-boiled egg removed whole from the shell. They 
are used principally to garnish a crust, or crouton, filled with 
pur^e. For success the eggs must be just about twenty-four 
hours old and cooked one at a time. Have about a quart of 
water, to which a teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar has been added, boiling violently. Break the shell 
and turn the contents, at once, on to the water at a point where 
there is the greatest agitation. The high temperature of 
the water and the acid harden the albumen upon the outside 
and keep the egg whole. The egg should be kept in motion 
either by the boiling water, or the use of a skimmer; this 
tends to keep the mass oval in shape. Remove with' a 
skimmer and drain before setting in place. 

POACHED EGG, HYGIENIC FASHION 

Add a few grains of salt to the white of an egg, beat until dry 
and turn into a buttered glass, or a china bowl ; form a nest 
on the top for the yolk. Set the glass on a trivet, in a covered 
dish of lukewarm water, and let cook until the egg is set and 
rises in the glass. Do not let the water boil around the glass. 

WITH TOAST 

Pile the beaten white of an egg on a round slice of toast, 
giving it the form of a nest; drop in the yolk and let cook in 
a moderate oven until set. In this case the toast takes the 
place of the water. At discretion the toast may first be 
spread with anchovy paste, fine-chopped ham, or chicken, 
stirred into a white sauce. 

POACHED EGGS WITH SPINACH A LA CREME 

Cook half a peck of spinach (see page 309) drain and chop. 
Cook two tablespoonfuls of flour in two of butter; add hffJA ^ 



EGGS, POACHED 71 

cup of cream, and when well blended and smooth add the 
spinach with salt and pepper as needed; cook and stir until 
well mixed, then spread on rounds of toast, or fried bread 
and place, a poached egg on top ; sprinkle the yolk with fine- 
chopped parsley if desired. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CREAMED SALMON 

Brush the cases (see Bread Croustades, page 28) with melted 
butter and brown in the oven ; fill with fresh salmon cooked, 
(canned salmon may be used), flaked and heated in a cup of 
hot cream-sauce. Dispose a poached egg above the salmon. 
Serve garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CREAMED CELERY 

Arrange poached eggs in a circle on rounds of hot buttered 
toast ; fill in the centre of the circle with a pint of celery, cut 
into inch lengths and cooked in boiling water until tender 
(about two hours), then stirred into a cup and a half of cream- 
sauce. In making the sauce use half water in which the 
celery was cooked and half cream. 

POACHED EGGS W^ITH ANCHOVY TOAST 

Toast rounds of bread, spread with anchovy paste and 
place a poached egg on top of each round. 

EGGS POACHED IN CONSOMME 

Use consomme instead of water, poaching one or two eggs 
at a time; thicken the consomme, add a few spoonfuls of 
cream and pour around or over the eggs, arranged on slices 
of toast. 

POACHED EGGS, COUNTESS STYLE 

Fill puff-paste patties with asparagus tips, cooked and 
well-buttered; cover with a poached egg and surround with 
cream, velout6, or HoUandaise sauce. , If the cream-sauce 
made thick with pur6e of asparagus, be used in the patties 
with the egg above, the dish becomes poached eggs with 
cream of asparagus. 



)2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SExiVING 



POACHED EGGS, SICILIAN FASHION 

Fill brfeald c'rolistadeis, or ptiff-paste Cases with Cooked tod 
sifted chicfeen livfers, mixed #ith creatn Or Velotitd sattce to 
form a thick pur^e; place a poSChed egg ftbOVe. Patu 
tomato-sauce over, or around the croutons. 

POACHED EGGS, CREOLE STYLE 

■ i calii of totttatbes. 2 tableS|)boMtils of Irtiiter. 

I gfeen pfepper, shredded. Salt and pepper. 

ToalSt. I tablespoohftd of lemon jtuce, or 

5 eggs. vinegar. 

Stew the tomatoes and pepper until the tomato is reduced 
one-half; turn on to a serving-dish, arrange ori the tomato 
five rOhtids of toast, tod u|)On each of these' a poached fegg. 
Melt ahd btowii the butter, add the vinegar, of lenlbii juice, 
arid, Vhefl the lifciuid b'oils; pCtiir the sauce o"ver the eggs; 
spriilkle WiiU salt and pepiJer and serve at once. 

SALPICON OF EGGS IN CASSE^OLfeS, PATtY-SHfeLLS, EtC. 

The whites of 6 eggs. The yolks of 6 eggs. 

6 tablesjyobiifiiis di thin ctfeiain. 6 tablespOoriftilS Of eonsomni6, or 
Salt and pepper, chicken broth. 

Beat the whites and yolks separately, and only until well 
broken up; add the liquid and seasoniiigs and strain into 
two well-buttered teoHldS, thfe yolks in one,- the whites in 
the other. Poach in a moderate oven tmtil the centres are 
firm J Unmould when cold, cut in thin slices and stamp out 
into figures. Reheat with truffles and smoted tongue, also 
cut out in figures, in Bechamel, velout^, or supreme sauce.. 
Serve in patty-shells, Swedish timbale cases, cocottes, china, 
or paper cases. If paper dEtsCs be the choice, brush them 
over with oil, Or melted butter and dry them in the oven 
before usingj 

SiliRRfii) EiGGS (CkUFS SUR LE PLAI*.) AU MIROIR. EQG 
IN COCOTTES 

Egg's p6ached in a dish toe sdid to be shirred; when the 
eggs are basted with melted butter during the codking, to 



SG'GS, SiilRRED 73 

give them a glossy, shiny appearance; the dish is called au 
miroir. Often the eggs are served in the dish in Which they 
are cooked ; at other times, especially where several are cooked 
in the Same dish, they are cut with a roufid paSt^-ctttter and 
served o'n croiatonS, of oil d garnish. Eggs are shirred in 
flat dishes, in caSes of china^ or paper, or in cocottesj A 
cocotte id a small earthen saucepan with a handlej Standing 
oh three feet. These are usually of Sarreguemines ware. 
The china cases ate in various styles; sonie ard provided with 
a saucer upon which the case rests. for serving. When paper 
cases are used, a second larger case receives the case in which 
the egg is cooked. 

t 

Mix two tablespoonfuls, each, of bread-ctumbs and chopped 
ciiickeh, or ham (or use brfead alone) with cream to make a 
batter ; season with salt and pepper. Line a buttered cocotte', 
of case (china, of paper) with the batter, break an egg into 
the dish, arid, if desired, covef with batter; take on a folded 
paper in a dish containing hot water, until the egg is set. 
Serve from the dish. 

II 
, Saut^ a handful of chopped mushrooms with a Lttle onion 
juice in butter five minutes; add a little chopped parsley, 
sprinkle the same on the bottom and sides of a buttered 
stirrer or cocotte, and break the egg into the dish; sprinkle 
with the fine herbs and cook as above, basting two or three 
times with melted butter. 

EGtrg SHlkRfiD lH tOTSAA^d^^ (Atj WtkblkJ 

Gut circular pieces from the stem ends of the tomatoes 
and remove part of the pulp; season with salt dnd peppef, 
also with onion juice and parsley, if deisired; break an egg 
into each tomato and cook in a slow oven until the egg is set, 
basting with ttielted bttttfef. Sdrve dtl fouiids of buttered 
toast ; ori put the tomatoes into the oven on rounds of bread 
brushed over on all sides with melted butter; remove the 
tomatoes on the bread to the serving-dish. Garnish with 



74 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

curled celery. Serve with cream-sauce apart, or poured 
around the toast. 

EGGS SHIRRED WITH CHICKEN FORCEMEAT 

Line buttered china cups with chicken forcemeat (see page 
257); break an egg into the centre of each cup, cover with 
buttered paper and let poach, standing on a folded paper in 
a dish of hot water, about ten minutes. Serve with or with- 
out a^ spoonful of Bechamel sauce poured over the top of 
each egg. 

EGGS WriTH MASHED POTATO 

Pipe a Duchess potato mixture (see page 291), or a well 
seasoned mashed-potato mixture as a border around the 
inside of an individual egg-dish; spread cooked fine herbs 
(see page 23), or bits of meat, or fish in a sauce over the open 
space on the bottom of the dish; above this break two eggs. 
Cook in the oven until the eggs are set. Sprinkle the yolks 
with pepper and serve at once. 

EGGS A LA PARISIENNE (MOULDED EGGS) 

Sprinkle the inside of buttered dariole moulds with fine- 
chopped parsley. Break an egg into each mould, dust with 
salt and pepper, set on a folded paper in a pan of hot water, 
and let poach, covered, on the top of the range, or in the oven, 
as convenient, until the eggs are firm, then turn from the 
moulds onto a hot serving-dish. Have ready a can of tomatoes 
that have been cooked fifteen minutes with a slice of onion 
and passed through a sieve ; season with salt and pe^pper and 
reheat with a cup of canned mushrooms, or let simmer ten 
minutes with a cup of fresh mushrooms, peeled and saut6d 
in two tablespoonfuls of butter. Pour the tomatoes and 
mushrooms about the eggs and serve at once. 

EGGS MOULDED IN PIMENTOS 

Line buttered timbale, or dariole moulds with canned 
pimentos (a can costing eighteen cents contains a dozen 
pimentos) ; break an egg into each mould, and poach until 



EGGS, FRIED, ETC. 75 

the egg is set ; then turn from the moulds on to rounds of 
buttered toast and serve with cream-sauce. 
FRIED EGGS 

Have plenty of fat, not too hot, in a frjring-pan; break the 
eggs, one by one, into a cup and turn them into the fat (don't 
crowd the pan); if the fat bubbles and spatters it is too hot; 
with a spoon dip the fat and pour it over the eggs. When the 
yolks are covered with a transparent film, remove to slices of 
broiled ham cut a little larger than the eggs. Eggs may be 
fried and present an appearance as delicate as when they are 
poached. An egg fried brown is most indigestible and no 
additional flavour is gained thereby. 

EGGS WITH BROWN BUTTER 

8 eggs, 1-2 a cup of butter. 

Salt and pepper. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Heat half the butter in a frying-pan over a strong fire ; when 
it is turning brown remove to a cooler place. Have ready the 
rest of the butter in a second frying-pan and into this carefully 
break the eggs without injuring the yolks ; sprinkle with salt 
and pepper ; pour the browned butter carefully over the surface 
of the eggs and put the vinegar on to heat in this frying-pan. 
When the whites become set, or firm, remove to a serving- 
dish and pour the vinegar over them. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Butter a saut^-pan generously; add the eggs, beaten and 
seasoned as for a French omelet, also, if desired, half as many 
tablespoonfuls of cream, or water, as eggs — ^the liquid will 
give a more custard-like appearance to the dish. Stir the 
eggs, continually, until they are of a soft, creamy consistency 
throughout; the last of the cooking should be done by the 
heat of the pan. Serve at once. Scrambled eggs may be 
varied by the addition of any of the articles usually added 
to omelets. These materials may be chopped fine, or cut 
in small distinct cubes; they should be mixed with the eggs 
just before the pan is taken from the fire. Scrambled eggs 



•j6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

iildy be sferved sirtiply wifh a- sprig bt ^iafSlfey, &t oft tOsSt, Of 
in cases with or withottt a sdiic^. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS AND TOMa¥5ES, SPINACH BORDER 

Cook half a peek of spinach iii bfdfh, Cii6p> finfe. Season 
and form into a ring on a dish. Beat six eggS; add salt, 
pepper, and half a cup of canned tomatoes; mix thorotighly. 
Turn into a hot omelet-pan over two tablespobflftils of iJielted 
butter; stir until the mixture is lightly set, thfen ttlfn iflto 
the centre of the §J)inach-dish, garnish and serve' hot. 

EGGS A LA BUCKINGHAM 

5 slices of toast. i-S U tea^fiodllftil of siti. 

I cup of cream sauce. Pepper. 

S eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, or 

S tablespoottfWlii of grated chefese. water, if desired. 

Dip the edges of the toast in boiling salted water, then in 
the sauce ; povit the sauce Ovfer thd f Oast, diid khtite this the 
6ggs scrambled With the sfe^soWings and liqUld. Sprinkle 
the top with the cheese arid set the diSh iti the oVfeti jUst long 
enougii to melt the cheese; thetl sSrVe at Once. 

EGGS, LOWELL STYLE 

Cut tomatoes in halves cfosfi-v^risS ; 6ip iii oil, or rtielted 
butter, then in fine bread, Or dfafcfeer dttimbs, and bfoil oVfei' 
a rather slow fire. Set aside to keep hot. Melt three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, pour in half a dozen eggs, — beaten until 
whites Eifld j/olks are -Urell mixed, — sealson -vlrith half a tea- 
spootifUl of salt, a dash of fieppfer and dilute with five table- 
spoonfuls of water; stir a nlorrient, then add fiVfe table- 
spOohfuls of grated chfeeSe Atid stir uiltU the cheese is melted 
and the eggS are set. Put the mijtttife on butteted rounds 
of toast with Ukli a tomato above. 

OMELETS 

All Omelets may be grouped iinder one or the othet of two 
classes; the French, or the pvLSy. There are many Varieties 
ahd modifications of theSe two classes; but in reality, if these 



OMELEIS 77 

be examined carefully, they will be foufwJ tQ belong itp ^h^ 
one or tiie other group. 

THE EGG 

In "kuQst of the reejpes giym biej^^y the wholg .pf tii^e egg 
is used, but by preference the ?jiun^b§F of yplke .should ^X£pfi4 
that of the whites, as an omelet more tender and of looser 
texture results. Thudicum asserts, that all cookery books, 
up to I §40, omit a fjujajber, up to half, of all the whiter, wd 
Kitchiner says thajb no art aan prevent an omejet bping h^rd. 
if too much of the ^nfhite be left in it, 

THE P4.IJ 

The pan should be thin, as .quick cooking is of irijportance ; 
it should not be large, as one of the first requisites in » perfect 
omelet is thickness. The greatest care and skill are jjee,de4 
to secure an omelet in which the eggs are not liquid, but bs^ely 
set. 

UTENSIL FOR SERVING 

A spoon, .or fork is the proper utensil for serving. If a 
knife npeds be used the onjelet is a failure. 

FRENCH OMELET 

To jtiake q French omelet, break the eggs into a howl', ^44- 
as maffl.y taldespoonfuls of water as there are eggs, pojunting 
two yolks as a whole egg, and for each three eggSj p. d^sh <?f 
pepper and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt; be.^t the eggs 
rnith a spoon, or fork, until a spoonful can be taken up; $heiji 
strajii into another bowl. If a mild flavor of garlic be agreer 
able, pub the inside of the bowl into which the eggs g,re t9 be 
broken with a clove of garlic. Have rciady in the cleanest, 
smootiiest, and thinnest of frying-pans, a t/?.ble$pi9pjn/ul of 
melted butter; into this pour the egg mixtu-Ee, ^et on ^ Iv;^ 
part gf the range for a moment, then, with a t^n }i^ifj g^ 
spatula, separate the cooked portion frona thf si^^ of ^th^ 
frying-pan, and gently rock the pan back and fofti^, the 
side next the handle raised as the pan is piushjed fca^^r^ 



■78 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and the opposite side raised as it is brought back, that the 
uncooked part may run down next the pan. When creamy 
throughout, begin at the side of the pan next the handle and 
roll the omelet, letting the pan rest on the stove a moment, 
until the omelet is browned slightly, then add a little butter, 
if needed, and turn on to a hot platter. 

FORMULA FOR A THREE-EGG OMELET 

2 whole eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

3 yolks of eggs. Dash of pepper. 

3 tablespoonfuls of water. i tablespoonful of butter. 

PUFFY OMELET 

To make a puffy omelet, beat the whites of the eggs until 
dry; beat the yolks until light-colored and thick; add to the 
yolks a tablespoonful of water for each yolk, and one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper for each three 
yolks; mix together thoroughly, and turn over the beaten 
whites, then cut and fold the whites into the yolk mixture. 
Have the pan buttered and hot as before, turn in the mixture, 
spreading it evenly over the pan. Let stand for about two 
minutes, where there is a moderate heat, then set in the .oven 
to cook the top slightly. Just as soon as a knife — thrust into 
the centre of the omelet — comes out nearly clean, remove from 
the oven, cut across the centre of the top, at right angles to 
the handle, fold the part nearest the handle over the other 
part, and turn onto a hot platter. 

Either the plain French omelet, or the puffy omelet may 
be. varied by the use of a filling, or a garnish, or both. The 
filling, if fine chopped, as parsley, or other herbs, may be 
mixed with the body of the omelet; though by "filling" we 
usually mean a little of the desired article chopped fine or 
cut in small cubes, perhaps mixed with a sauce, sprinkled on 
to the surface of the omelet before it is folded. When used 
as a garnish the article is mixed with a sauce and poured 
about the omelet. Green, or canned peas in white sauce, 
mushrooms, fresh or canned, macaroni in tomato-sauce, 
oysters in cream-sauce, fine-chopped ham, or chicken, aspar- 



OMELETS 79 

agus-tips, and tomatoes are among the favorite fillings and 
garnishes. 

OMELETS WITH A STARCHY FOUNDATION 

Oftentimes an omelet is desired that will keep in good con- 
dition a short interval after it has been made. In this case, 
a thickening ingredient is added to help hold up the eggs. 
In order to be either wholesome, or palatable, this foundation' 
must be thoroughly cooked before the eggs are added. While 
dishes of this class are called omelets, they belong more pro- 
perly to the group of pancakes. 

MRS. GRANT'S OMELET 

1 cup of sweet milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Dash of pepper. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 5 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

With the first five ingredients make a white sauce ; stir this 
gradually into the beaten yolks of the eggs, then fold in the 
whites of the eggs beaten dry. Melt the last two tablespoon- 
ftds of butter in the omelet-pan, pour in the mixture and 
cook ^.s a puffy omelet. Fine-chopped l^am, chicken, oysters 
parboiled and cut in pieces, mushrooms cut in pieces, etc., 
etc. may be added to the sauce with the yolks of eggs. 

RICE OMELET 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. I cup of warm, boiled rice. 

Beat the eggs, and add the salt and rice; the grains of rice 
should be whole and each held separately in the egg mixture; 
if the rice be very dry, add two tablespoonfuls of milk. Cook 
as a puffy omelet. 



CHAPTER III 
Fish and Its Copkery. Frogs and Terrapin 

" 'Tis very fresh and sweet, Sir — • 
The fish was taken Jjut this night." 

— Beaumont and FLpxcjiER. 



' Fish with Scales 



Fish ^ Shell Fish. 



(Oysters. 
Clams. 
Scallops. 

{Lobsters. 
CrEibs. 
Shrimps. 



Frogs, Tjjptle, TfiTTfupiti 



CBEMICAJ. COMPOSITIONS OF FISH (ATWATgfl) 







AS 


PURCHASED 








Protein. 






Refuse. 


Water. 


by diff'ence 


Fat. 


Bass 


. l^I . 2 


37-4 

40 -3 


8-7 
9.8 


2 . 2 


Bluefish . , . . 


.48,6 


6-3 


Cod, whole , . 


.•29 -9 


58 -S 


10. 6 


. 2 


Cod steaks . . 


■ 9-3 


72.4 


16.9 


•5 


Flounder . .. 


.pi.S 


32.6 


S-i 


•3 


Haddock . .. 


.510 


40.0 


8.2 


. 2 


IJ^feut..,,, 


■J7-7 


^1.9 


iS-i 


4.4 


Mackerel . .. 


• 44-7 


40.4 


10. 


4.2 


Salmon 


. 20 . ^ 


48. 1 


13 -S 

9.2 

20.9 


8.1 


Shad 


. ^lO. II 


35-2 
71 . 2 


4.8 


Shad roe 


■ J 


3-8 


Smelt 


■ -41 -9 


46. 1 


10 .0 


1 .0 


SDRtiisli . ... 


. ^4.6 


44 S 
40.4 


13-7 
9.8 


6.2 


Brook Trout 


. .48.1 


I . I 








So 





Garboby- 
drates. 


Ash. 


FuelValjjs 
per pound. 








S 


2SS 








7 


210 








8 


215 






I 




5 
6 

9 
7 
8 

7 


335 
J15 
1,65 

479 
365 
600 
380 


2 


6 


I 


S 


600 






I 





230 






I 



6 


525 
230 



FISH AND ITS COOKERY 



8i 



FISH PRESERVED AND CANNED 

Protein. Carbohy- Fuel Value 

Refuse. Water, by diff'ence. Fat. drates. Ash. per pound. 

Salt Cod 24.9 40.2 16.0 .4 .... J8.5 315 

Boneless Salt 

C°<i 1.6 54. 8 28.6 .3 14.7 545 

Smoked. 

Halibut 7.0 46.0 19. 1 14.0 .... 13.9 950 

Salt Mackerel.. 1 9. 7 34.8 13.9 21.;: 10.4 1.155 

Canned Salmon.!/ 2 56.8 19.5 7.5 .... ^.o 680 

Canned 

Sardines 23.6 23.7 12. i .... 5.3 950 

SHELLFISH. FRESH 

Protein. Carfcohy. Fuel Value 

Refuse. Water, by diff'ence. Fat. drates. Ash. per pound. 

Long Clams 

in shell 41.9 49-9 S-° -^ ^-^ i-S 14° 

Round Clams... 67. 5 28.0 2.1 .1 1.4 .9 70 

Lobsters in Shell. 61 .7 30.7 5.9 .7 .2 .8 140 

Oysters in shell. .81.4 16. i 1.2 .2 .7 .4 45 

Oysters, solid 88.3 6.0 1.3 3.3 i.i 2:30 

Fish contains all the elements of meat in an easily digested 
form; on this account it is adapted to the needs of old and 
young alike, and especially to sedentary people. In primitive 
times, when each man supplied his own larder at first hand, 
fish-abounding streams were chosen for the abodes of men. 
As peoples grew in culture and refinement their written his- 
tory, both sacred and profane, contains frequent allusions , 
to the capture, cooking, and eating of fish. 

■ It is said that the Emperor Charles V. visited the grave 
of the man who systematically introduced into the Nether- 
lands the preservation of herring by salting, smoking, and 
drying them, as a benefactor of mankind. Lucullus, at great 
expense, connected a lake near Naples with the sea, in which 
he might keep sea-fish alive. We catch a glimpse of the life of 
the age in the passage of sacred history where Simon Peter 
says, " I go a-fishing, " and we marvel at the great draught of 
fishes after the long night of discouragement. What reader 
does not experience a thrill of the satisfaction that must 



82 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

have been felt by those weary men on landing, at sight of 
the "fire of coals and fish laid thereon and bread." 

On account of abundance, many varieties of fish are inex- 
pensive. The price even of the choicest species, barring 
moUusks and crustaceans, in season, is not high, when it is 
compared with the cost of the best cuts of meat. 

Though fish has been a staple in food since the earliest 
times, yet the serving of fish in such form that it can be eaten 
with pleasure by people of deUcate and aesthetic tendencies 
is of more recent date. This only affords additional proof 
that the cultivation of a people is determined by the manner 
in which they cook and serve their meals. 

Notwithstanding all the shippers tell us of the conveniences 
of transportation, and of flavor preserved by keeping fish 
packed in ice for some days, we are inclined to be sceptical, 
and fear that housekeepers who dwell far inland, will not find 
in their markets sea-food in prime condition. In the vicinity 
of the Great Lakes, however, excellent white-fish and lake 
trout make up, in part, for this deficiency. Brook trout, 
than which few fish are more highly prized, are plentiful 
in many a mountain stream, and fresh-water lakes are destined 
to be stocked with the black-bass and other edible fishes. In- 
deed, since cultivated trout can be sold at a profit, and the 
supply is said never to equal the demand, there would 
seem to be an opportunity here for a paying business 
venture. 

Of salt-water fish, cod, haddock, and halibut, are the staples. 
Common mackerel appear about the first of April, the Spanish 
about the fifteenth of the same month. Spanish mackerel 
is sold at twenty-five cents per pound, the common, at so 
much a fish, the price depending upon the season and size 
of the fish. Both are very handsome. They are easily dis- 
tinguished by their color and marking. Indeed, from its 
marking the fish takes its name, this being derived from the 
Latin word macula, meaning a spot. The common mackerel 
is usually smaller in size than the Spanish, and the dark blue 
above is covered with many wavy, blackish cross-streaks. 
The Spanish mackerel is bluish and silvery above, with bright 



FISH AND ITS COOKERY ' 83 

reflections, and upon the sides are many roundish bronze 
spots. 

The huge sword-fish, from which firm slices may be cut, 
is in season from July to September. Bluefish abound in 
May, when deep-sea fishing becomes possible. Frozen salmon 
may be found, in the Eastern markets, during the winter and 
spring, but the season begins in June. Salted salmon is 
especially deserving of mention, for even after the salting 
and freshening processes have been completed, the fish is 
very rich, both in nitrogenous elements and in fat; it is good 
either boiled, or broiled. 

Salt codfish may be so cooked as to make a most palatable 
and wholesome breakfast or luncheon dish. It is com- 
paratively easy of digestion, and is said to be particularly 
good for children, troubled with complaints incident to hot 
weather. It also acts as a sedative, in cases of dyspepsia 
caused by fermentation. 

Shad are taken at Charleston in January, at Norfolk in 
February, at New York near the last of March, or the first 
of April, and at Boston by the end of April. The fish come 
from the south, running up the rivers from the sea to deposit 
their spawn in fresh water. 

The season for brook-trout begins April first. They come 
just in time to take the place of smelts, which are then no 
longer seasonable. The fishery of white-bait begins in April. 
This delicacy in fish, served at the popular clubs, is made 
fashionable on account of the lyEinisterial white-bait dinner 
given at Greenwich just before the prorogation of Parliament. 
The labor involved in preparing and cooking this tiny fish 
is a drawback against its large consumption. 

TO DETERMINE THE FRESHNESS OF FISH 

Of fresh fish there is no odor; the flesh is firm, bright, and 
crisp-looking; the eyes are bright, not dull and lustreless, 
and the gills are of a bright red color. 



84 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PREPARATION OF FISH FOR COOKERY 

TO CLEAN FISH 

Fish, either salt or fresh, is the better if it be cleaned and 
drawn immediately on being taken from the water. This 
is emphatically true in the case of fresh- water fish. Fish 
cleaned at the market will need additional attention. Begin 
at the tail and scrape the fish to remove scales. See that 
the flesh be clean close to the backbone. Wash quickly, 
inside and out, but do not let the fish stand in the water, 
drain and dry. 

Let stand, skin side down, upon the ice until time of cooking. 
This, according to Izaak Walton, should be speedy. Mackerel 
and bluefish, in particular, after transportation, even on ice, 
scarcely resemble the same fish, when it is eaten within a 
few hours after it has been taken from the salt water. 

SERVING FISH 

If the fish is to be served whole, leave head and tail intact, 
but remove the eyes and cut off the fins. In whatever way 
the fish be cooked, it should be carefully drained and mounted ; 
use parsley or cress most lavishly in its garnishing. 

TO REMOVE THE SKIN 

It is a very simple matter to remove the bones also the 
skin from some kinds of fish, thus leaving the flesh clear and 
intact. Cut off the fins along the back, and then a strip of 
skin less than half an inch wide down the full length of the 
back; also cut the skin around the head. Dip the fingers 
in salt that they may not slip, then, after loosening the skin 
below the head, draw it off from one side of the fish, by pulling 
gently with one hand and pushing with the back of a knife 
held in the other hand, so as to keep the flesh whole; repeat the 
process on the other side of the fish. 

TO BONE A FISH 

Beginning at the tail, on one side, slip the knife in between 
the flesh and the bone and cleave the flesh from the bone its 




BAKED HALIBUT, BONE REMOVED AFTER BAKING. 
Garnish: Oyster cro^iuettes (egg-shaped) and parsley 




TURBANS OF HALIBUT AND BOILED POTATO BALLS 
Garnish: Chopped parsley. (See page 94.) 




FILLET OF FLOUNDER SERVED IN SILVER CASSEROLE. (See page 85.) 
Fillets baked in large dish and transferred to individual dishes. 



GENERAL WAYS OP COOKING PfSH 85 

entire length; this gives one fillet; remove the other in the 
same manner. These fillets may be cooked whole, or cut 
in such pieces as are desired. Halibut cut in transverse 
slices, half an inch thick, is filleted by removing the skin on 
the edge and the single piece of bone from the centre. Each 
slice thus gives four fillets. Fillets of halibut and fl6unders 
are often sold as "fillets of sole." The sole is not found in 
our waters. The inexpensive flounder, dear to memory 
through the fairy tales of Grimm, will be found when 
filleted and served with tomato, or other piquant sauce, a 
most appetizing tid-bit ; but it is not quite the equal of the 
English sole. The more expensive chicken halibut is con- 
sidered by many superior to sole. Large fillets from cod 
or haddock may be baked on an oiled fish-sheet with an oyster 
or bread-stuffing between and buttered crumbs above. If 
small, they may be marinated, rolled and fastened in shape 
with a small skewer or wooden toothpick. Butter the 
skewers that they may be easily withdrawn after the fish 
is cooked. These" fillets may be braised, baked, or, after 
egging and bread-crumbing, fried. 

Frozen fish need to be thawed out in cold water, then 
cooked at once. 

GENERAL WAYS OF COOKING FISH 

Fish may be boiled, braised, baked, broiled, or fried, accord- 
ing to individual fancy, but a certain way is more suitable 
for some varieties than it is for another. Red-blooded fish, 
as salmon, bluefish, and mackerel, in which the fat is dis- 
tributed throughout the fish, being rich and moist, should 
be cooked by other methods than saut^ing and frying. Any 
white-blooded fish, as cod, haddock, and halibut, in which the 
fat is concentrated in the liver, will bear cooking by these latter 
methods. 

Salmon, which possesses a higher nutritive value than 
meat, chiefly on account of the large proportion of fat in com- 
position, may be cooked in boiling water, which, as a general 
rule, unless the water be used as stock, is a wasteful way of 
cooking fish. When the white varieties are cooked lo water 



86 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

they need be supplemented by rich sauces ; and when baked 
they must be basted often, or they will be dry and tasteless. 
All fish, like veal and pork, mtist be thoroughly cooked, lest 
they be worse than unpalatable, that is, positively inimical to 
health. If cooked too long, however, fish loses flavor 
and is "woolly." 

COOKING FISH IN BOILING LIQUID 

In cooking fish in boiling liquid, two things must be kept 
in view: appearance and nutritive effect. Cold liquid draws 
out the juices, while plunging a fish in boiling water causes 
the skin to contract and crack. 

In consequence, a medium course must be pursued. Lower 
the fish, fastened in an upright position, if whole, on a fish- 
rack, or sheet, or, in the absence of this useful utensil, coiled 
in a frying basket or tied in a piece of cheesecloth, into warm 
liquid and bring quickly to- the boiling point; then let simmer 
until the flesh separates readily from the bones, and no longer. 
After simmering begins cooking will take from five to eight 
minutes a pound, according to the thickness of the fish. 

Let the liquid just cover the fish; add a generous teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice to 
each two quarts of water, or milk and water, or court bouillon. 
When the fish is cooked, let drain over the kettle; dress with 
care on a folded napkin, to absorb any liquid from the fish. 
Garnish plentifully with fresh parsley or cress. Serve with 
HoUandaise, Bechamel, or drawn-butter-sauce. Lobster or 
pickles may be added to any of these sauces. Boiled potato 
balls are often served on the dish with the fish. A fish-kettle 
with rack or sheet is of great convenience in draining and 
removing a fish whole and shapely to the platter. 

BROILING FISH 

Fish that when, dressed presents a thin flat surface, par- 
ticularly those varieties in which the oil is distributed through- 
out the flesh, as shad, bluefish and mackerel, are usually 
broiled. Without doubt the best results in brpiling are 



BROILING FISH 87 

obtained with the charcoal fire; but electricity, or gas, which 
may be extinguished as soon as the cooking is done, is often 
most convenient. The lower oven of a gas-range furnishes a 
most excellent place for broiling a live lobster or "planking" 
a fish. Before broiling a fish, brush well with butter or oil, 
and be very careful that the fire be not too hot. After the 
first few seconds, the fish should be drawn away from the 
fire and cooked even more slowly. Many varieties of fish, 
if they be subjected to a fierce heat, become hard and indigest- 
ible. Mackerel and bluefish of fair size require fifteen or 
twenty minutes' slow cooking. Baste with butter once or 
twice. The latter part of the cooking, particularly when the 
fish is thick, will be most successfully carried on in the oven. 
The broiler needs be placed in the oven over a dripping- 
pan. Have the broiler hot and well oiled before the fish 
is put in it, and turn every ten seconds in cooking the flesh 
side, oftener in cooking the skin side, to avoid burning. 
Brush halibut or other dry fish generously with oil or butter, 
roll in soft bread-crumbs and broil. With a sharp knife 
carefully separate the fish from the broiler (double-wire broiler) 
on both sides, then shde onto the dish. Spread with maitre 
d'hotel butter. A planked fish is broiled or roasted without 
turning; after the first ten seconds, it should be withdrawn 
some distance from the fire. The plank should be heated 
and oiled before the fish is fastened to it. 

COURT BOUILLON 

I stalk of celery cut fine. 3 or 4 cloves. 

I carrot cut fine. 1-4 a small pepper without seeds. 

1 onion cut fine. 1-2 a bay leaf. 

2 quarts of water. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of cider vinegar. Fish trimmings if at hand. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter or 2 sprigs of parsley. 

drippings. 

Saut^ the vegetables in the butter ; add the other ingredients, 
let boil and skim, then cool a little and proceed as above. 
This liquid may be used in making the sauce, or it may be 
strained and kept for future use like any stock. 



88 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BAKING FISH 

Fish may be baked whole, in large, thick slices, or in fillets. 
The natural dryness of white-blooded fish must be obviated 
as much as possible by basting. Shad, halibut, salmon, 
bluefish, whitefish, and bass 'are airiong those commonly 
baked. A fish to be served whole is usually trussed in an 
upright position. A fish-sheet is of great assistance in remov- 
ing the fish in perfect shape to the platter. A very good sheet 
may be made by any tinner and sold for twenty-five cents, 
each, at fifty per cent, profit. Select a piece of tin smaller 
than the baking-pan, to facilitate basting; perforate with a 
dozen, or more round holes, half an inch in diameter, in alter- 
nate rows opposite each other; finish with or without a wired 
edge; wire handles at the ends are a necessity. 

STUFFING 

A baked fish is usually stuffed ; after the body is filled with 
the stuffing, but not too full, as the material will swell, sew 
up the opening with a trussing needle. Usually gashes are 
cut in the sides of the fish into which strips of fat pork are laid. 

TRUSSING 

The fish may be tmssed in a circle, or in the shape of the 
letter S. To truss in a circle, pass the tail through the sockets 
of the eyes, then run a steel skewer dipped in njelted butter 
through the tail, letting the point rest on the baking-dish; 
the head will hold it in place. To skewer in the shape of an 
S, run the trussing-needle, threaded with a double cord, 
through the head, middle of the body, and the tail, shorten 
the cord until the shape desired is secured, then tie securely. 
Brush over the fish-sheet or bottom of the' pan with oil, or 
butter before the fish is set in place ; or slices of fat pork may 
be used. Dredge the fish with salt, pepper, and flour. Put 
slices of pork on the top. Baste with the drippings from the 
pork, adding a little hot water if needed. Salmon is often 
enveloped' in an oiled paper before baking, as thereby the 
tempering of the heat preserves the color. 



FRYING AND SAUTEING FISH 89 



FRIED FISH 

Most fish are very delicate in savor, and this is conserved 
by cooking in no way as in frying; that is, if the frying be 
properly done. Small fish and fillets are most suitable for 
frying. After the fish are properly cleaned, washed, and 
dried, season with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then egg-and- 
breadcrumb. However, if one has not mastered the art of 
frying, and fear lest she send fat-soaked fish to the table, do 
not, on any account, attempt to cook fish in this way; for the 
disorganized products evolved from fat raised to a high tem- 
perature are neither appetizing nor wholesome. 

In frying fish, attention must be given to three points: 
every part should be covered with the egg and crumbs, that 
a fat-proof covering be formed; at the moment of immersion, 
the fat should be smoking hot, and this heat should be well 
maintained until the fish is cooked; and, lastly, the fish should 
be thoroughly drained after the frying has been completed. 
Serve on a folded napkin, or dish-paper. . 

SAUTED FISH 

Small fish, as brook-trout, or fish cut in pieces, as halibut, 
are sauted. Dry fish, like halibut, needs stand in a marinade 
some time before cooking; wipe the fish dry, season with salt 
and pepper, then roll in flour, or in sifted dry breadcrumbs; 
cook in hot fat, tried out of salt pork, until of a golden brown, 
then turn with a broad-bladed knife and cook on the other 
side. There should be little fat in the pan, just enough to 
cover well the pan and keep the fish from clinging. Garnish 
with parsley and slices of lemon. 

SPECIAL DISHES OF FISH COOKED ACCORDING TO THE 
PREVIOUS DIRECTIONS, WITH VARIATIONS 

BOILED HALIBUT 

Cook a threerpound slice, thick rather than long, of halibut, 
according to directions previously given, about twenty-five 
minutes ; drain and remove the skin and bone from the centre. 
Place on a napkin; garnish with potato croquettes and par- 



90 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

boiled oysters. Serve with HoUandaise, Bechamel, or drawn- 
butter sauce. Boiled halibut presents a good appearance, 
as it does not fall to pieces readily. 

BOILED SALMON 

Surround a middle cut of salmon, boiled according to prev- 
ious directions, with potato-balls; fill the open space in the 
fish with parsley or cress, and sprinkle the potatoes with a 
little of the same, chopped fine. Serve with Bemaise, Hol- 
landaise, or other sauce. For a grand occasion, serve with 
nonpariel sauce, i.e., a HoUandaise sauce to which have been 
added lobster-butter, white of egg in cubes, and mushrooms, 
cut in pieces. When fresh salmon is not in the market, occa- 
sionally frozen salmon, which sells for eighteen or twenty 
cents per pound, is very acceptable. Thaw in cold water 
and cook as soon as it is thawed. 

BOILED COD 

The head and shoulders of cod are considered the best part 
for boiling; the tail of the fish is thin and apt to become over- 
cooked before the thicker part is cooked. 

When fish is boiled in milk and water, the acid needs be 
omitted. When cod, in particular, is properly "boiled," 
the juices, in jelly-like consistency, may be seen between the 
easily flaked fish. 

SMELTS COOKED IN BOILING LIQUID 

Smelts are often boiled. Cook only few at a time from 
five to eight minutes, after the water begins to boil, according 
to size. Arrange in a pyramid, the largest at the base, on a 
folded napkin. Garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve 
with Tartare sauce. 

STEAMED BROOK-TROUT, OR OTHER FISH 

' Prepare as for boiling; steam fifteen minutes to the pound. 
Serve with HoUandaise, Tartare, or horse-radish sauce. 




CHARTREUSE OF SALMON. 




BONED CODFISH BAKED WITH FORCEMEAT. (See vane o,) 




SCALLOPED OYSTERS. (See page no.) 



BAKED FISH ^t 

MATELOT OF HADDOCK AND OYSTERS 

3 or 4 pounds of haddock. 4 yolks of eggs. 

I pint of oysters. Salt and pepper. 

4 large mild onions. i lemon. 

Remove the fillets from the haddock; cut into pieces three 
inches by two. Cover the head, tail, and trimnaings with 
the liquor from the oysters and water; add a slice or two of 
onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of carrot; let simmer to form 
a broth. Boil the onions, separately, until nearly tender, 
then cut in even slices. Put a layer of onion in a saucepan; 
upon this arrange the fillets of fish and the oysters, and dust 
with salt and pepper; add the juice of the lemon and the rest 
of the onion slices; strain the broth over the whole and close 
the pan tightly; let simmer very gently until the fillets are 
tender, then strain off the broth. Arrange the fillets on a 
hot dish, and pour over them the broth, thickened with the 
yolks of four eggs. Do not let the broth boil after the yolks, 
carefully diluted with a little of the broth, have been added. 
Fresh-water fish or sea-fish, other than haddock, prepared 
in this way are excellent. The oysters may be omitted. 

BAKED HALIBUT 

Select a solid piece of halibut weighing about three pounds; 
let stand in a marinade about an hour, (see page 28) drain, 
brush over with butter, or cover the top with slices of salt 
pork. Bake about forty minutes, until the flesh separates 
readily from the bone, basting every ten minutes. Remove 
the skin and after sliding the fish onto the serving-dish garnish 
with a pur^e of peas. (Dried peas, or peas too old for other 
cooking may be used.) Serve with any of the sauces for 
baked fish. 

SALMON BAKED IN PAPER 

Wrap a middle cut of salmon, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and lemon juice, in a large sheet of buttered paper, and pin 
the ends together firmly. Melt one-fourth a cup of butter 
in one-fourth a cup of hot water, and pour over the fish in a 



92 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING- 

baking pan. Cover and bake one hour in a slow oven, basting 
every ten minutes. Remove skin and serve with Bemaise 
sauce. Garnish with parsley and shrimps. 

BAKED HALIBUT STEAKS 

Have two halibut steaks cut an inch and a half in thickness. 
Let stand in a marinade an hour or more. Lay thin slices 
of salt-pork upon a fish-sheet. Place one of the steaks upon 
the pork. Dip oysters, — about half a pint will be required, — 
in melted butter, then in cracker-crumbs, and place upon 
the fish to cover the entire surface. Place the second steak 
upon the oysters, season, and lay slices of pork on the top. 
Bake thirty-five or forty minutes, basting three or four 
times with the juice in the pan, or with butter melted in hot 
water. A few minutes before the fish is to be taken from 
the oven, remove the pork and cover the top with a cup of 
cracker-crumbs that have been stirred into one-third a cup 
of melted butter. Serve, when the crumbs are browned, 
with oysters, or Hollandaise sauce and potato-balls. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH 

' (black-bass, pickerel, bluefish, haddock, etc.) 

5 oz. (1-4 a loaf)of bread cnimbs. 2 egg yolks. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 1-4 a teaspoonful, each of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped onion or and pepper. 

I teaspoonful of onion juice. 1-4 a cup of melted butter. 

Soak the bread from which the crust has been taken in 
cold water fifteen minutes; put in a bit of cheesecloth and 
wring as dry as possible; add the other ingredients and use. 
If a moist stuffing be desired, omit the egg yolks. A tea- 
spoonful, each, of chopped capers and pickles are often ug&d, 
especially in stuffing a bluefish. 

BAKED HADDOCK, COD, ETC. 

Haddock, which is very dry, is often,basted, at last, with a 
cup of white or tomato-sauce ; after the last basting sprinkle 
the fish with fine soft bread-crumbs, moistened with melted 



BAKED FISH 93 

butter. Bake until the crumbs are browned. For further 
particulars, see general directions for baking fish. 

oyster stuffing 

(for cod, haddock, bass, pickerel, or slices of 
halibut) 

1-2 a cup of breadcrumbs. ■> tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

1-2 a cup of cracker-crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-2 a tablespoonful of chopped 

1-2 a pint of oysters. parsley if desired. 

Oyster liquor to moisten. 

Stir the crumbs into the melted butter ; add the seasonings, 
the oysters, bearded or not, and liquor to moisten- 

BONED CODFISH BAKED WITH FORCEMEAT 

Clean a codfish. Split the fish down the side opposite the 
backbone. Slip a thin sharp knife under the backbone at 
the tail and separate the bone from the flesh the entire length 
of the fish and pick out any small bones that appear. Have 
ready a forcemeat, made of one cup and a half of pounded 
fish (another cod, piece of halibut, flounder, or salmon if 
a "pink" dish is desired), the whites of two eggs, salt and 
pepper, and two thirds a cup of cream. (See Fish and Chicken 
Forcemeats, page 257.) Lay the fish, skin side down, on a 
buttered fish-sheet, and skewer the head and tail standing 
upwards. Season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. With 
forcing-bag and tube, fill in the space thus formed with the 
forcemeat, making several parallel rows close to one another. 
Bake, basting with fish-stock, or butter melted in hot water, 
about twenty-five minutes. Slide from the sheet to the serv- 
ing-dish, and sprinkle with sifted yolk of egg. Fill the mouth 
and eyes with parsley. To serve, cut through the centre 
and entire length of the fish, then, beginning at the head, 
cut out square pieces upon one side and then on the other. 
Serve with any fish-sauce. 



94 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



FILLETS OF FLOUNDER WITH GREEN PEAS 

Dress and cut three flounders into a dozen fillets; dip the 
fillets in melted butter, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon 
juice; or let stand in a marinade an hour or more. Fold 
each fillet around a bit of raw pared potato (this will keep 
the fillet in the desired shape) and arrange in a baking-dish; 
half cover with hot fish-stock, made of the trimmings, and 
cook in the oven about ten minutes. Dress the fillets, one 
overlapping another in a circle, with green peas, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and butter, in the centre. Sift a cooked 
egg-yolk between the fillets. Thicken the stock with roux 
for sauce. Remove the potato before serving. 

TURBANS OF HALIBUT WITH POTATO BALLS 

Have two slices of halibut cut half an inch thick; remove the 
skin and bone, thus securing eight fillets. Dip in melted 
butter; squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon, a little 
onion juice and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Commencing 
with the widest end, roll each fillet into a " turban " and fasten 
by running through each a buttered wooden toothpick. Bake 
about twenty minutes, basting with hot stock, or .butter 
melted in hot water. Arrange crown shape on a serving-dish.' 
Fill the centre with boiled potato-balls, dressed with salt, 
butter, and chopped parsley. Serve with HoUandaise or 
other fish-sauce. (See illustration opposite page 84.) 

TURBANS OF HALIBUT BAKED WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Prepare as above; baste during cooking with tomato-sauce 
and serve with additional tomato-sauce. 

TURBANS OF HALIBUT WITH OYSTER FORCEMEAT 

Prepare a cup of oyster forcemeat, quennelle, or cream, as 
desired. Spread the fillets with the forcemeat, then roll 
and bake as before. Or roll each fillet around a plump oyster, 
and then bake as usual. Let the fillets stand in a marinade 
an hour before rolling. 




PLANKED SFIAD. 
Garnish: Mashed potatu, radishes and parsley. (See page 95.) 




FILLETS OF FLOUNDER AND GREEN PEAS. (See page 04.) 




BOILED SALMON, POTATO BALLS AND CRESS. (See page 90.) 



BROILED FISH 95 



PLANKED SHAD, OR LAKE WHITE FISH 

Fasten the fish, cleaned and spUt down the back, on a 
heated oak or other hardwood plank. Planks are made for 
the purpose one inch thick and of various sizes; the medium 
size for a three-pound fish costs about fifty cents. Brush 
over the fish with oil or melted butter and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Bake about twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 
Baste frequently with melted butter. Square planks with 
a support on the back that admits of standing before an open 
fire are prepared. In this case the fish needs be fastened 
to the plank with a few tacks and set in a dripping-pan. This 
style is designed for camp cookery. The planks need be 
well seasoned and heated before using. The lower oven of 
a gas-range affords an admirable place for cooking a planked 
fish. When the fish is cooked, fill the space between the 
fish and the edge of the board with duchess potatoes. Shape 
the potato by means of a forcing-bag and star-tube; brush 
over with beaten yolk of egg, diluted with milk, and let brown 
in the oven. Set the plank on a serving-dish, concealing the 
edge with parsley and radishes. Serve with maitre d'hotel 
butter. Spread this upon the fish, or melt over hot water 
and serve in a dish apart. 

BROILED MACKEREL 

m 

Cut off the. fins, split, dress and, if convenient, remove the 
backbone; broil in the usual manner; dish on a hot platter, 
or on a platform of mashed potato shaped to the fish. Spread 
over the fish a partly melted maitre d'hotel, anchovy, or 
green butter, or Livournaise sauce. Garnish with slices of 
lemon and serve with sliced cucumbers. 

BROILED SHAD, OR OTHER FISH ROE 

Let the roe stand in marinade an hour; broil very slowly 
about ten minutes, basting several times with melted butter. 
Serve with mattre d'hotel butter. Garnish with lemon quar 
ters. 



96 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BROILED BROOK-TROUT 

Cut off the fins, draw by the gills, push the handle of a 
wooden spoon along the backbone of each fish on the inside, 
to loosen the blood-vessel that lies along the spine; wash and 
wipe dry; cut small incisions on both sides, season with salt 
and pepper, baste with oil, and broil in a double-broiler from 
ten to fifteen minutes, according to size of the fish. Turn 
every few seconds while broiling, to avoid burning the skin. 
Hold the broiler farther from the fire after the first few seconds. 

FRIED SMELTS 

To clean the smelts, spread open the outer gills, then, with 
the thumb and forefinger, take hold of the inner gills and pull 
gently; the parts unfit for food are all attached to these inner 
gills, and come away together, leaving the smelt in perfect 
shape. Rinse thoroughly and wipe dry. If the smelts are 
small, dip in milk, then roll in flour, or in egg and bread- 
crumbs; string through the gills on silver skewers, three on 
a skewer, and fry in deep fat, a skewerful at a time. Serve 
on a folded napkin with sauce Tartare. If the smelts be large, 
or are to be used as garnish for a baked fish, fasten tails in 
mouths with a wooden toothpick, egg-and-breadcrumb and 
fry in deep fat, three, or four at a time. (See Directions for 
Frying Fish, page 89.) 

FRIED BASS WITH BACON 

Scale and wash the fish thoroughly and cut into pieces; 
season with pepper and salt, roll in flour, then in beaten eggs, 
and, lastly, in fine breadcrumbs. Fry to a golden brown 
in deep fat, smoking hot. Fry in a separate pan, or cook 
in the oven, in a double-broiler over a dripping-pan, a slice of 
bacon for each piece of fish; lay the bacon on the fish, and 
garnish with parsley. Serve with mashed potatoes and 
sliced tomatoes, or with cucumbers. 

FRESH CODFISH, FRIED 

Select middle cuts of fish in slices about an inch thick; 
shape in discs by fastening the ends securely with wooden 



FRIED FISH 97 

toothpicks dipped in melted butter. Season with salt, pepper, 
onion and lemon juice, and set aside in a cool place to become 
thoroughly seasoned. Cover with breadcrumbs, then with 
beaten egg, and, lastly, with crumbs and fry in deep fat, smok- 
ing hot, five, or six minutes. Drain on soft paper. Serve 
with Tartare or tomato-sauce. 

STUFFED FILLETS OF FLOUNDERS 

Take fillets from a flounder weighing two pounds and a 
half and let stand in marinade an hour. Spread on one-half 
of each fillet a tablespoonful of mashed potato (about one cup 
should be prepared) mixed with the beaten yolk of an egg 
and seasoned with one tablespoonful of butter, one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. Fold the other 
half of each fillet over the potato, cover with crumbs, dip in 
the white of the egg beaten with two tablespoonfuls of water, 
and again cover with crumbs ; insert a short piece of macaroni 
in the pointed end of each fillet and fry in deep fat. Dram 
on soft paper, and cover the macaroni with a paper frill. 
Garnish with lemon and parsley and serve with onion pur^e, or 
tomato sauce. 

FILLETS OF FLOUNDER STUFFED WITH FORCEMEAT 

Make a cream, or quennelle forcemeat, using half a pound 
(one cup) of fish, weighed or measured after passing through 
the wire sieve. Use in the preceding recipe in the place of 
the potato. Serve as above, or with sauce Tarta,re. Or, 
instead of frying the fillets, put them in a baking-dish with 
a little fish-stock, or salted and acidulated water, and bake 
about fifteen minutes. If stock be used, thicken as for a 
sauce, or use any sauce served with baked fish., 

SHAD-ROE CROQUETTES 

Cook the roe in boiling salted and acidulated water fifteen 
minutes, drain and mash. For each pint of roe, beat together 
one-fourth a cup, each, of cornstarch and butter, and cook 
in a cup and a half of hot cream ten minutes; add the 
juice of half a lemon, half a teaspoonful, each, of salt and 



98 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

paprika, a few drops of onion juice, one egg, beaten, the roe, 
and, if at hand, a few mushrooms, sauted and chopped; cool 
in a shallow dish, shape into croquettes, egg-and-breadcrumb 
and fry in deep fat. 

SHAD ROE, MARYLAND STYLE 

Put two or three roes in a well-buttered baking-dish; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and half cover with broth; add two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, cut in pieces; cover the pan and cook 
in the oven fifteen minutes. Keep hot on the range until 
the stock is reduced to one cup, or less. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs, add one cup of thin cream and stir into the hot 
sauce very slowly; cook over hot water, until thickened 
slightly, adding, meanwhile, two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
also add salt and pepper, if required, and pour over the roes. 
Garnish with thin slices of broiled bacon. Other roe than 
shad may be cooked in the same manner. 

BROOK-TROUT IN PAPER CASES 

Dress half a dozen brook-trout, weighing about four ounces 
each, without destroying shape. Fill with forcemeat and 
secure the slit made in dressing. Brush over with melted 
butter, or olive-oil, pieces of paper and put a very thin shav- 
ing of salt-pork in the centre of each, with a trout above; 
dust with salt and pepper, then fold the paper and fasten 
closely with a string. Bake about twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. Remove the string and serve in the papers. Pass 
at the same time HoUandaise, Bechamel, or tomato-sauce. 

BASS FORCEMEAT FOR BROOK TROUT ■ 

Pound in a mortar half a pound of bass from which the 
skin and bones have been taken ; add to the fish while pound- , 
ing the whites of two eggs, a little at a time, and pass through 
the sieve; add gradually half a cup of cream. Season with 
salt and pepper. Use a forcing-bag and plain tube in filling 
the fish. 



FRIED FISH 99 

SALMON MOUSSES 

1-2 a pound of uncooked salmon. 3 yolks of eggs. 

1-2 a cup of thick tomato, or Velout6 

sauce. 4 whites of eggs. 

12 raw oysters, bearded. Salt and pepper. 

Weigh the fish after the skin and bones have been removed. 
Pound the salmon in a mortar to a smooth pulp; add while 
pounding the other ingredients, except the white of the eggs. 
Beard the oysters and remove the button-shaped muscle 
before adding to the mixture. Pass the mixture through a 
pur^e sieve, and add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Turn into small bomb moulds well buttered and 
decorated with truffles if desired. Put the mixture into the 
moulds very carefully, that the moulds may be filled perfectly. 
Set the moulds into timbale moulds, that they may stand 
upright; surround with hot water and let poach in the oven, 
or on top of the stove, about fifteen minutes, or until firm to the 
touch. Unmould and pour around them a cup and a half 
of white-sauce, made of stock prepared with the trimmings 
of the fish and oysters, a little cream, lemon juice, and white 
roux. Just before "serving beat into the sauce the remaining 
egg yolk. 

TURBAN OF HALIBUT WITH LOBSTER 

1-2 a pound (i cup) of halibut freed 
from skin and bone. Whites of 3 eggs. 

1-4 a pound of panada (1-2 a cup.) i cup of double cream. 

1-3 a cup of butter. i lobster. 

Salt and pepper. t 1-2 cups of Velout6 sauce. 

Pound the halibut, which should weigh a full half-pound after 
it has been freed from skin and bone, to a smooth paste, adding 
meanwhile, the white of an egg, gradually, then press through 
a pur6e sieve. Cook bread, soaked in water and squeezed 
dry, with milk to a paste; stir and cook until the mixtui-e 
forms a ball, then take out half a cup and add to this the 
butter, salt and paprika, the halibut and whites of eggs ; then 
pass again through a pur^e-sieve. Beat in gradually the 
cream. Poach in a buttered border-mould, sprinkled with 
lobster coral, about fifteen minutes, or until firm. Turn from 



loo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the mould and fill in the centre with the meat of a small lobster, 
cut in cubes and heated in the velout^ sauce. 

RECIPES FOR SERVING CURED FISH 
BOILED FINNAN-HADDIE 

{mild smoked, dried haddock) 

Wash the fish thoroughly; let soak half an hour in cold 
water, skin side up; cover with water "just off the boil," 
let stand fifteen minutes, then drain carefully and wipe 
dry; brush over with butter or olive -oil and broil over a 
rather dull fire about fifteen minutes. Turn on to a hot 
platter, dot with bits of butter, here and there, sprinkle with 
the juice of half a lemon and serve at once. 

FINNAN-HADDIE, A LA DELMONICO 

Prepare as before, then, when dry, remove skin a-d bones 
and separate into flakes. Put the flaked fish into a buttered 
serving-dish and pour over it a thin white-sauce equal in 
quantity to the fish; cover with buttered crumbs and bake 
in a hot oven long enough to brown the crumbs. 

PICKED-UP CODFISH 

Let one pint of salt codfish, picked in tiny pieces, stand 
covered with cold water several hours, then drain, pressing 
out the water. Add a pint of rich creamy milk, and when 
scalded stir in one-fourth a cup of flour mixed to a smooth 
paste with one-fourth a cup of milk; stir constantly until the 
boiling point is reached, then let cook over hot water ten 
minutes; just before serving stir in two eggs slightly beaten. 

SARDINES WITH SPINACH 

I cup of fresh grated breadcrumbs. Sardines. 
1-4 a cup of butter. 4 "hard-boiled" eggs. 

I peck of spinach. Salt and pepper. 

Broth if needed. 

Heat the crumbs in the melted butter; add the cooked 
spinach, chopped fine, and the flesh (skin and bones rejected) 



RECIPES FOR CURED FISH loi 

of a dozen sardines; season to taste with salt and pepper; 
add hot broth if needed and thoroughly reheat. Form into 
an oblong on a serving-dish. Put sardines, from which the 
oil has been carefully wiped, over the top and hard-boiled 
eggs, cut into slices, around the mound. Serve as a luncheon 
dish. Lemon slices are a fitting accompaniment. 

SALT CODFISH BALLS 

I pint of potatoes. i cup of raw salt-codfish. 

I egg. Salt and pepper. 

Fat for Prjring. 

Cut the pared potatoes into quarters; put the codfish; 
picked into tiny bits, above the potatoes in a saucepan and 
pour boiling water about (not over) the potatbes. Do 
not quite cover them with the water. Cook until 
tender. Drain off the water, set the saucepan, covered 
with a cloth, on the back of the range, to dry the potatoes. 
Mash thoroughly — a potato-ricer is the best utensil for this 
purpose. 

The fish should be shaken from the potatoeSj as it will hot 
readily pass through the ricer. Add salt, if heededj arid pepper 
to taste. 

Beat an egg until white and yolk are well mixed; add 
gradually a little of the fishball mixture, and, when blended, 
return to that in the saucepan and beat thoroughly. Shape 
the mixture with the hands into smooth balls, pressing lightly 
into shape. Fry in deep fat, smoking hot, to an ambet color. 
Use a frying-basket and cook not more than five at a time. 
Reheat the fat after each frying. Avoid the use of fat that 
has been heated many times. Serve with mustard, or with 
horseradish, tomato, or Tartare sauce. 

PLAIN ANCHOVIES 

Let the anchovies soak in cold water about two hours; 
dry on a cloth, and split open, using the hands, or a silver- 
plated knife. Discarding the bones, arrange the halves 
on a dish, and surround with fine-chopped white of egg and 
parsley. Serve with oil and lemon juice. 



I02 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



STUFFED ANCHOVIES 

Prepare the anchovies as above ; pound a little cooked fish 
of any kind at hand to a paste, add an equal bulk of fine, soft 
bread-crumbs, and stir in yolks of eggs to form a paste; put 
a little of this mixture, seasoned to taste, between the halves 
of a fish; egg-and-breadcrumb, or dip into batter, and fry 
to a delicate color in deep fat. Garnish with parsley. 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL 

Let soak in cold water twelve hours skin side up. Drain 
and wipe dry. Brush over with oil or butter. Broil in a 
well-oiled broiler, principally on the flesh side, basting with 
oil or butter once or twice. Remove carefully to the serving- 
dish and pour over half or three-fourths a cup of hot cream. 
Sprinkle with fine-chopped parsley. 

SALTED SALMON BROILED 

Let stand in cold water at least twenty-four hours, thirty- 
six hours is better. Cook as broiled salt mackerel. Salted 
salmon is particularly good when boiled and served with an 
egg-sauce and plain-boiled potatoes. 

RECIPES FOR FISH RECHAUFFES 

CHARTREUSE OF SALMON 

1 cup of rice. 1-4 a cup of butter. 

3 cups of milk, or stock, or equal 

parts of each or water. i pound of cooked salmon. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. Salt and pepper. 

I tablespoonful of ciury powder. i teaspoonful of onion juic?. 
2 tablespoonfuls of lemon jtdce. 

Parboil the rice in plenty of water five minutes ; drain and 
add the salt and liquid; let steam until nearly tender, then 
lightly stir in the butter, creamed with the curry-powder and 
onion juice, and steam until tender ; line a two-quart mould, 
buttered, with the rice ; fill the centre with the salmon, flaked 
and seasoned with the salt, pepper, and lemon juice; covei 



FISH RECHAUFFES 103 

the fish with rice and let steam half an hour. Serve with 
drawn-butter sauce. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
eighths, or add the eggs to the sauce. 

fish cakes 

(remnants of any fresh fish) 

Pass hot boiled potatoes through a ricer, or vegetable- 
press; season with salt and pepper, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and one egg, beaten, to each pint of potatoes and, beat 
thoroughly; a perforated wooden spoon is good for the purpose. 
Add an equal amount of cooked fi,sh, flaked, either hot or cold, 
two or three tablespoonfuls of egg-sauce, if any remain, 
or a little more butter, and, when thoroughly mixed, shape 
into flat cakes. Put slices of bacon into a hot frying-pan 
and turn each slice in a spiral fashion while cooking. Saute 
the fish-cakes in the hot fat, after removing the bacon to soft 
paper to drain, first on one side and then on the other; place 
a well-poached egg on the top of each cake, curls of bacon 
between and parsley with a radish in the centre. 

fish chops 

(canned salmon, or any remnants op cooked fish) 

If canned salmon be used, drain the oil from the can, remove 
the skin and bones and pick the fish fine with a silver fork; 
add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and a dash of paprika. 
Make a cup of white-sauce, using two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and one-fourth a cup of flour — (double the usual quantity of 
flour) ; add the fish and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
When the mixture is thoroughly cold, form into chops. Egg- 
and-breadcrumb them, adding a little chopped parsley to the 
crumbs. Put a piece of macaroni into the end of the chop, to 
represent the chop-bone, and fry in deep fat. Arrange a 
crouton of bread in the centre of a serving-dish; upon this 
place a dish filled with sauce Tartare, and set the chops against 
and around the bread. 



I04 PRACTICAL COOKINf r AND SERVING 



FISH A LA CREME 

Prepare a duchess potato mixture, or use plain mashed 
potatoes, well-seasoned and beaten; shape the potato into an 
oval or circular wall on a serving-dish that will bear the heat 
of the oven; roll part of the potato into small balls and set 
these close together on the top of the wall, brush over the 
potato with the yolk of an egg; beaten slightly and diluted 
with a tablespoonful of milk. Have ready an equal bulk of 
cold cooked fish, flaked, and white-sauce. In making the 
sauce use fish-stock, or milk, or half and half; add any egg 
left after brushing over the potato. Put alternate layers of - 
sauce and fish inside the wall. Cover the top with half a cup 
of cracker-crumbs, mixed with one-fourth a cup of melted 
butter. Set the dish in the oven over hot water about fifteen 
minutes, ot until the crumbs and potatoes are delicately 
browned. 

FISH IN CURRY SAUCE 

Almost any variety of cold cooked fish separated into flakes, 
makes a very appetizing dish, if it be allowed to stand (over 
hot water) while it is slowly heated in a hot curry-sauce. 
White-stock from fish or fowl, or milk, is needed in the sauce. 
A slice of onion may or may not be sauted in the butter; a 
very little lemon juice supples, the mild acid so acceptable in 
curries. 

FISH TURBOT (MRS. WILLIAM B. SEW ALL, BOSTON) 

Four pounds of codfish. i slice of onion. 

Salt and pepper. i sprig of parsley. 

1-4 a pound of flour ( I cup). 1-2 a pound of butter. 

I quart of milk. 2 eggs. 

A sprig of thyme. Grated cheese. 

Cook the fish in boiling, salted acidulated water until the 
flesh separates easily from the bone; drain, remove the skin 
and bones and separate into flakes while hot. Stir the flour 
mixed with milk to pour into a quart of milk, scalded with the 
thyme, onion, and parsley; cook in a double-boiler to a smooth 
paste, stirring meanwhile", then strain, and add the butter and 




FISH A LA CREME IN CHINA CASES. (See paRc 104.) 
Garnish; Sifted yolk of egg, with ring of white above, holding a celery leaf 




HADDOCK, STUF I ,) \\1) , \,^ I) (s 11 , ^^ u 1 y.. ) 




HALIBUT STEAKS, BAKED WITH OYSTERS, POTATOES A 
LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. (See page 92) 



SHELL-FISH 



i°S 



the beaten eggs. Put a layer of fish into a buttered gratin- 
dish, then a layer of sauce, and so continue until fish and sauce 
are used. Have sauce for the last layer; cover with grated 
cheese and brown in the oven. 

SHELL-FISH 

BIVALVES 

"We search the ocean's clear blue depths, 
We tempt with bait and hook; 
And close-lipped bivalves force to speak 
In measures for our book. " 

OYSTERS 

Shell-fish, like fish unprotected by shells, are classed 
as white, or red fleshed. When fresh, white-fleshed shell-fish, 
of which oysters are the principal variety, are comparatively 
easy of digestion, while the red-fleshed lobsters and shrimps 
are even more diflicult of digestion than are salmon and blue- 
fish. 

Oysters are in season from September to May. They are 
sold in the shell by the dozen or peck, or, after removal 
from the shell, by the quart. There are about fifty oysters 
in a quart. The freshness of an oyster is of first consideration, 
and, when possible, it is well to buy them in the shells. For 
transportation in bulk, after removal from the shell, pre- 
servatives are used. On this account the value of oysters, 
as usually purchased, for the use of those convalescent after 
sickness is doubtful. 

The two valves of the oyster's shell are somewhat dissimilar; 
the left, or lower valve, is deeper and more capacious ; this is 
the half of the shell from which raw oysters are served; by 
a calcareous growth from this valve, the oyster is attached to 
foreign bodies. The two halves are held together by an adduc- 
tor muscle, each end of which rests in a slight depression in 
the valve. This muscle is the white button-shaped part of 
the oyster; it is toiigh and indigestible, as are also the edges, 
or giils, of the oyster, and both are often removed before 
cooking. When so treated the oyster is said to be bearded. 



io6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Oysters are found in all seas at a short distance from shore. 
The favourite habitat is the tranquil waters of a bay formed 
by the mouth of a large river. Oysters from Chesapeake 
Bay are most esteemed in this country. Those taken from 
the coast of New Jersey and Long- Island Sound are also in 
favor. 

In the New York markets, the small blue points, taken 
from the southern shores of Long Island, are in demand for 
service on the half-shell. In the Boston markets, Providence 
River and Cape Cod oysters are quite generally used. At the 
present day we have very few natural oysters ; nearly all are 
the result of cultivation, — the resulting stock, it is said, being 
■superior to the natural oyster. 

Oysters are not very nutritious; they are eaten more as a 
"provocative to appetite" than for their food value. 

TO OPEN OYSTERS 

Push a thin flat knife under the right, or upper valve of 
the oyster, and cut the adductor muscle. Then the right 
valve may be lifted up and separated from the lower valve 
that contains the oyster. Put the oysters into a coUander 
over a bowl; pour over each quart a generous half-cup of 
water; inspect the oysters, one by one, to see that no bit of 
shell still adheres. Save the liquor to use with the oysters, 
or in making fish-stock, or sauce. Pour off the liquor carefully, 
as sand is liable to be found at the bottom. 

CLAMS 

Clams are dug with a rake when the tide is out, in the 
gravelly mud of river mouths, the beds being exposed at low 
water. They are found about a foot below the surface. When 
cooked, the harder part of the clam is quite indigestible. When 
this part is used in cookery it needs to be chopped, or, better 
still, discarded entirely, after it has yielded its juices to a 
dish. The variety known as Little Neck clams is served raw 
in place of oysters, when these are out of season and clams 
can be procured. 



RECIPES FOR SHELL-FISH 107 



SCALLOPS 

The only portion of this bivalve (scallops) that is eaten is 
the muscle of the shell. This corresponds to the adductor 
muscle of the oyster, differing, however, in point of tenderness. 
Scallops are in season from October to April. They have a 
delicate sweetish taste, and are considered a delicious morsel. 
On the Atlantic coast they are found from Newfoundland 
southward. The shell is beautifully ribbed and zoned in 
varying shades of red and purple. This is made use of as a 
receptacle in cooking oysters; whence the name scalloped 
oysters, fish, etc. 

RECIPES FOR SHELL-FISH 

OYSTER COCKTAIL FOR ONE 

9 orio oysters. 2 drops of tabasco sauce. 

I -4 a teaspoonful of grated horse- 1 o drops of Worcestershire sauce, 

radish. Juice of 1-4 a lemon. 

I teaspoonful of tomato catsup. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS FOR TWELVE PERSONS 

Clean and chill sixty small oysters; mix with three tea- 
spoonfuls of fine-grated horseradish, half a teaspoonful of 
tabasco-sauce, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, five tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice, three tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire 
sauce, three tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup, and one tea- 
spoonful and a fourth of salt. Serve in sherry glasses, in 
grape-fruit, or lemon shells, or in tomato-cups. If fresh 
tomatoes are not at hand, cups may be shaped from tomato- 
jelly. 

COCKTAIL OF LITTLE-NECK CLAMS IN TOMATO CUPS 

Peel and scoop out the centres of small round tomatoes; 
chill thoroughly on ice together with half a dozen Little-Neck 
clams for each tomato. Mix one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, five or six 
drops of tabasco-sauce, a dash of paprika, and one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of salt, and pour one tablespoonful and a half of 



io8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the mixture over the clams in each tomato. Omit the catsup, 
if desired. 

OYSTERS ON THE DEEP SHELL 

Opeh the chilled oysters &s directed on page io6. Serve 
from the deeper half of the shell, on a bed of bi"oken ice, on a 
plate. From three to six oysters, no more than can be well 
arrailged on the ice, make one service. Pass with these salt 
and peppet and small thin brown bread-and-butter sand- 
wiches. Pass a lengthwise quarter of lemon with the oysters 
on each plate. 

BROILED OYSTERS WITH CELERY 

Marinate two dozen large oysters, cleaned and dried; drain, 
then dip in melted butter and very fine soft bread-crumbs; 
broil in a well-oiled oyster broiler until the gills curl, then 
lay on slices of buttered toast and pour over a cup of hot 
cream, or of thin white-sauce made of milk. Sprinkle the 
whole with fine-chopped celery and garnish the dish with 
bits of curled celery. If celery be not at hand, season the 
cream or sauce with celery-salt, or pepper. 

OYSTERS IN CREAM SAUCE 

I piiit of solid oysters i pint of cream, or three-fourths 

(about 30 oysters.) of a pint of milk. 

1-4 a cup of butter. Salt and pepper. 

1-4 a cup of flour. , 1-2 a cup or more of mushrooms. 

I tablespDonful of fine-chopped parsley. 

Scald the oysters in their own liqudr. Make the sauce 
in the usual manner and to this add the oysters, strained from 
their liquor. If a full pint of milk be used, add an extia 
level tablespoonful of flour to that stipulated for the sauce. 
Cream makes proportionately a thicker sauce than milk. 
Oysters thus ptepafed may be served in Swedish timbale 
cases, patty-shells, bread croiistades, green peppers, Vol- 
au-vent, or on toast. If canned button mushrooms be used, 
cut in halves and reheat in the sauce with the oysters. If 
the mushrooms be fresh, prepare as usual : rub over with the 



OYSTERS 109 

cut side of a lemon, simmer in water until tender, then add 
with the oysters. 

OYSTER STEW 

I quart of oysters. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

r quart of milk. 1-4 a teaspoonful of white pepper. 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

Pour half a cup of cold water over the oysters; examine, 
one by one, and remove any' bits of shell, but retain all the 
oyster crabs, which are considered a delicacy. Heat the 
liquor to the boiling point, strain through a piece of cheese- 
cloth and return to the fire with the oysters ; let heat quickly. 
When the oysters look plump and the gills begin to curl, skim 
out and put into the tureen with the scalded milk, butter, 
pepper, salt, and cracker-crumbs; strain in the oyster liquor, 
mix thoroughly and serve with a plate of crackers. 

OYSTERS IN BROWN SAUCE 

I slice of onion. i cup of oyster liquor. 

4 slices of carrot. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

I sprig of parsley. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-4 a cup of butter. A few grains of cayenne. 

1-3 a cup of flour. i solid pint of oysters. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor and drain. Saut^ 
the onion, carrot, and parsley in the butter, add the flour 
with the salt and cayenne and cook until well browned. Add 
the oyster liquor gradually; strain over the oysters, reheat, 
and, just before serving, add the cream, scalded. The yolks 
of one or two eggs may be added, also a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Mushrooms are often cooked with the oysters. Serve 
as oysters in cream-sauce. 

OYSTERS AND MACARONI 

I pint of oyster-s. Salt and paprika. 

3-4 a cup of macaroni broken in 1-43 cup of butter. 

inch pieces. 1-2 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

3-4 a cup of grated cheese. 1-4 a cup of melted butter. 

Cook the macaroni until tender (see page 335}; drain 
and rinse with cold water. Put a layer in the bottom of a 



no PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

buttered gratin dish, cover with oysters, and sprinkle with 
cheese, salt and paprika; add half the butter in bits, and cover 
with a layer of macaroni, then with oysters, and seasoning. 
Cover the top with the cracker-crumbs mixed with the melted 
butter. Bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Serve at once. 

OYSTERS AND MACARONI, NO. 2 

I pint of oysters, parboiled. Salt and paprika. 

3-4 a cup of macaroni broken in i 1-2 cups of white sauce. 

inch pieces. i- 2 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

3-4 a cup of grated cheese. 1-4 a cup of melted butter. 

Drain the oysters carefully after parboiling; add to the 
dish, alternately, with the macaroni, covering with sauce and 
cheese. Finish the tops with the cracker-crumbs, stirred 
into the melted butter. Cook ten minutes in a hot oven. 

OYSTER PIE 

Cover an inverted shallow baking-dish, holding about a 
quart, with chilled puff-paste rolled to the thickness of one- 
fourth an inch; prick with a fork, that it may rise evenly in 
baking. Slide onto a baking-sheet, to keep the edge from the 
bottom of the oven, and bake about twenty-five minutes. 
(See Puff-paste, page 484.) Cut out a cover one-fourth an 
inch thick, a little larger than the top of the dish, as it will 
shrink in baking, prick, and ornament with pieces of pastry 
if desired. Place on a baking-sheet, chill, then bake about 
twenty-five minutes. Remove the paste from the baking- 
dish and set in place on the serving-dish. Fill with a quart 
of drained oysters that have been cut in halves, stirred into a 
cup of hot cream-sauce and simmered five minutes, or until 
thoroughly heated, but no longer. The sauce will not season 
the oysters sufficiently, and additional salt and pepper will 
be needed. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

I quart of oysters. i cup of breadcrumbs. 

1-2 a cup of melted butter. (centre of the loaf) . 

I cup of cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper. 



FRIED OYSTERS in 

Stir the bread and cracker-crumbs into the butter; sprinkle 
the bottom of a buttered baking-dish with crumbs, then 
place on these a layer of cleaned oysters and dust with salt 
and pepper. Add, alternately, two more layers of oysters 
and crumbs and bake in a hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes 
Garnish with toast-points and parsley, and serve at once. 
Select a shallow dish for scalloped oysters, as long cooking 
injures an oyster: 

OYSTERS BROILED WITH BACON 

Broil six slices of bacon by letting stand in a double-broiler 
over a dripping-pan in a hot oven. Wash and dry a pint of 
large oysters; dip, one by oiie, in the bacon fat and arrange 
in an oyster-broiler ; cook over glowing coals, first on one side 
and then on the other, until they look plump and the edges 
are curled. Serve on slices of toast or fried croutons. Gar- 
nish with the bacon. 

BROILED OYSTERS WITH MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

Drain large oysters, wipe dry, season with salt and pepper, 
dip in oil or melted butter, and arrange in an oyster-broiler; 
broil over a quick fire without coloring; dress on pieces of 
toast, and pour over mattre d'hotel butter, partly melted. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Wash and drain the oysters and dry between two cloths; 
let stand in a marinade ten or more minutes, then drain again. 
Roll in cracker crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper. For 
one pint of oysters beat two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water until the whites and yolks are well mixed ; dip the 
oysters, crumbed, into the egg and roll again in crumbs. 
Fry one minute in deep fat, smoking hot. Use a frying-basket 
and cook only five or six oysters at a time. Drain on soft 
paper and serve at once. Serve at the same time pickles, 
olives, celery salad, or cold slaw. When served as a luncheon 
dish the centre may be removed from a small head of 
cabbage; let chill and fill the open space with crisp cab- 
bage cut fine and mixed with dressing. Let the cabbage 



112 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

rest on a folded napkin and around the cabbage on the napkin 
arrange the fried oysters. 

OYSTERS FRIED IN BATTER 

Wash and dry the oysters, which should be of large size. 
Dip in batter (each oyster needs be perfectly covered with 
the batter) and fry in deep fat; drain and serve on a folded 
napkin; garnish with lemon and parsley. Let the same 
articles accompany the dish as are served with oysters, 
crumbed and fried. 

BATTER FOR OYSTERS 

2 eggs. A few grains of paprika. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. i cup of flour. 

2-3 a cup of strained oyster liquor. 

Let the batter stand an hour or two before using. 

FRIED SCALLOPS 

Cover the scallops with boiling water and keep hot five 
minutes without boiling; drain and dry on a cloth. Let 
stand in a marinade one hour, drain and dry a second time, 
roll in seasoned cracker-dust, dip in egg and roll again in 
cracker-dust; fry in deep fat until well colored, dress on a 
folded napkin and serve with quartered lemons, or with 
tomato-sauce. 

SCALLOPS ON THE DEEP SHELL 

Cut the scallops into squares ; put these back into the deep 
shells, season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with fine- 
chopped fresh mushrooms, parsley, and buttered bread- 
crumbs. Cook in a hot oven ten or twelve minutes ; remove 
and squeeze upon each a little lemon juice and dress on a folded 
napkin, garnishing with a few sprigs of parsley. 

SCALLOPS IN SHELLS 

Parboil the scallops five minutes; drain and cut in cubes; 
measure the cubes, and for a pint saut^ a slice of onion in one- 
fourth a cup of butter; add half a cup of mushrooms peeled 



LOBSTERS, 113 

and cut in squares, and let cook five minutes; add one-fourth 
a, pup of flour, and, when blended with the butter, add the 
scallops and a cup, each, of scallop broth and cream; let boil 
once, then simmer six, or eight minutes; add a dash of paprika 
and a teaspoonful of butter. Put the mixture into buttered 
scallop-shells, cover with cracker-crumbs, mixed with butter, 
and let brown in the oven. 

CLAM BROTH AND CLAMS IN CREAM-SAUCE 

Scrub and rinse half a peck of clams; put over the fire in 
a cup of cold water. Cover and steam until the shells are well 
opened. When the clams are cooked, drain off the broth, 
strain, season with pepper, reheat without boiling and serve 
at once. A spoonful of whipped cream is often served oh the 
top of a cup of clam broth, but the broth needs be very hot 
or the cream will cool it too much. Serve the steamed clams, 
after removing the hard parts in a cream-sauce. Or these may- 
be chopped and added with the soft portions to the sauce. 
Use rich milk or cream in making the sauce. A cup of sauce 
will suffice for a cup of clams. Serve on toast. Garnish with 
toast-points. 

CRUSTACEANS 

LOBSTERS 

The American lobster is found in the northern sections of 
both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, On the Pacific coast 
the lobster is large and without claws. The natural color 
of the lobster is usually a dark bluish green and mottled, but 
in sandy regions they are slightly reddish. When boiled the 
color changes to red. Lobsters are caught in nets or traps 
and shipped to market alive. In March the lobster begins his 
yearly migration from deep water to the coast; in autumn 
thpse that are left to tell the tale of their wanderings return 
again tothe deep sea. During April and May the largest num- 
bers are in motion. Then the fish-markets are resplendent 
with the viyid color of the lobster's shell, and the adjacent 
country for miles around is resonant with the "buy-lobe. 



114 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

buy-lobe" of the hawkers of this popular crustacean. That 
the lobster's annual trip is accomplished in safety but a few 
times is attested by the average size of these creatures when 
they are caught. They have been known to reacli a weight 
of fifteen pounds, but a five-pound lobster is rarely seen. 
As the lobster grows at the rate of about a quarter of a pound 
a year, it is a simple matter to determine his age, and the num- 
ber of times he has missed the tempting bait in the lobster- 
trap. 

Probably the largest lobster ever seen was captured oflE 
Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, in 1898, and sent to Boston. It 
measured nearly seven feet from tip to tip of its colossal 
body claws; the body itself was three feet long. The legs 
were about an inch in diameter. The average weight of a 
lobster to-day is about two pounds. 

As a general thing lobsters are boiled when taken from the 
trap ; but few are seen in the markets alive. Near the coast, 
on order, usually for the hotel trade, the flesh is removed from 
the shell without preliminary boiling. Such fiesh is served 
after one cooking, a gain on the side of digestibility. 

TO DETERMINE THE FRESHNESS OF LOBSTERS 

A lobster heavy in proportion to its size is the choice ; such 
a lobster is either plump and in good condition, or fresh- 
boiled and heavy from lack of evaporation. A lobster in 
good condition when boiled has its tail curled, and when this 
is straightened out it will fly back into place. 

TO BOIL A LOBSTER 

Sometimes a lobster is brought from market alive ; it should 
be cooked at once. Have in the kettle enough boiling water 
to cover the lobster. Take by the back and put into the 
water head first and as quickly as possible. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of salt and let boil five minutes, then simmer half an hour. 

TO DRESS A LOBSTER 

Pull off the two large claws, and the four pairs of small 
claws ; break apart the tail and the body ; cut the bony mem- 



CRABS 115 

brane on the inside of the tail shell with a pair of scissors, 
or sardine can-opener, then spread the tail slightly and pull 
out the flesh in a single piece; open this in the crease on the 
under side and carefully remove the intestinal vein, which 
runs the entire length. This vein is always visible, but it 
differs in color, being white, or red, or sometimes, from the 
contents, black. Take the body from the shell, leaving 
within the shell the stomach or "lady." If the coral and 
green substance remain in the shell, shake them out and 
set aside for use. Pull off the woolly gills found on the body, 
then break open the body shell and remove all the bits of 
flesh found between the bones ; this is the sweetest and tender- 
est portion of the lobster. Disjoint the large claws and cut the 
shell, if thin, to remove the flesh as whole as possible. Take 
the meat from the small claws with a skewer and leave these 
whole for garnishing. 

CRABS 

The species of crabs are very numerous. The blue crab 
is the one used as an article of food. On the Atlantic and 
Gulf coasts it is found in estuaries and brackish water. Other 
species of the same genus extensively used for food are found 
in the West Indies and on both coasts of Central and South 
America. The common, or rock crabs, a large, mottled, 
reddish-brown species, are sometimes sold in the markets of 
New England; similar species are common in San Francisco, 
and still another species is used on the European coast. Upon 
the coast of the Southern States a very large species, five or 
six inches across, is caught in great numbers for the market. 
On account of the scarcity of beef and mutton in the South, 
crabs are eaten there more largely than in the North. Crabs, 
as well as lobsters, shed their shells.- Soft-shell crabs, or 
crabs upon which the new shell has not hardened, are con- 
sidered a great delicacy. Oyster crabs found inside the shell 
of the oyster are another delicacy. As they are not found 
in large numbers and are very tiny, they are used in few dishes 
other than as a garnish. 



ii6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



SHRIMPS 

In this country shrimps are not in general use as an article 
of food, but they are in common use in England and France. 
The best shrimps in this country are found in Southern waters ; 
these are from an inch and a half to two inches and a half 
long. Shrimps are of a grayish color, turning to pink in 
boiling- In the Northern markets shrimps are seen only 
after boiling. They are seasonable from May to October. 
Canned shrimps are more generally used than any other 
canned shell-fish. Shrimps are used in salads or sauces; 
they are also served, heated in a cream-sauce, from the chafing- 
dish. To prepare for cooking, pick off the shell and take out 
the intestinal vein. 

CURRY OF LOBSTER IN RICE CUPS 

Press boiled rice into cups. (See Rice Croustades, page 29.) 
When cold turn from the cups and remove the centres ; brush 
over with yolk of egg, roll in bread-crumbs and fry in deep 
fat; drain on soft paper, then fill with the following curry: 
Cook half an onion in butter; add one-fourth a cup of flour, 
one tablespoonful of curry-powder and one^pint of cocoanut- 
milk. Strain over one pint of lobster, cut in cubes and sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, and lemon juice and reheat before 
serving. 

STUFFED LOBSTER, NARRAGANSETT PIER STYLE 

2 pounds of lobster. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped 1-2 a cup of chicken stock. 

shallots. Yolks of two eggs. 

? tablespoonfuls of butter. i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

i'4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-4 a cup of bread crumbs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 1-2 a cup of cracker crumbs 

A grating of nutmeg. i -4 a cup of melted butter. 

Saut^ the shallot (mild onion) in the butter without brown- 
ing it; add the flour and seasonings, the cream and chicken- 
stock (or stock made from the body bones of the lobster) 



LOBSTER RECIPES 117 

When this boils, add the breadcrumbs (soft, not dry crumbs), 
the meat from the lobster, chopped fine, and the parsley. 
When this is heated, stir in the beaten yolks of this eggs aild 
the lemon juice. Place the cleaned shell of the lobster on the 
serving-dish, letting it take the natural shape of th^ lobster, 
pour the mixture into it and cover with the ci-acker-crunibs, 
mixed with the melted butter. Set in the oven to browti the 
crumbs. Garnish the dish with parsley, fans from the tail 
of the lobster, and the feelers. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS 

1 cup of thick white sauce or i egg. 

f 2 tablespoonsfuls of butter. i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

11-4 a cup of fiour. 2 cups of chopped lobster meat. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

Add the beaten eggs to the sauce, the lobster-meat and the 
lemon juice, turn into a shallow dish, cover and set aside to 
become thoroughly cold. Shape into cutlets, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry in deep fat ; drain on soft paper in the warming- 
oven. Insert the end of a small claw in -the small end of 
each cutlet. Arrange the cutlets in a circle, overlapping one 
another, around the large claws, standing in a rice croustade, 
or in a nest of parsley. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS NO. 2 

8 otmces of lobster meat (meat from a two-pound lobster). 
2-3 a cup of panada. 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. i tablespoonful tomato sauce. 
Salt and paprika. i tablespoonful of double cream. 

Potmd the lobster-meat to a smooth pulp; add the panada 
(see Entries, page 258) and butter and pound again; add the 
other ingredients, save the cream, and when well blended 
pass through the pur^e sieve and mix in the cream. Butter 
cutlet moulds, sprinkle with sifted coral, cooked yolk of egg, 
or chopped parsley, thfen carefully fill the moulds with the 
mixture. With a wet knife smooth the top of the mixture. 
Set the moulds on a folded paper and surrouiid with hot water; 



ii8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

let poach in a moderate oven" about fifteen minutes. Serve 
around a rice socle. Pass with the cutlets Hollandaise, or 
other fish-sauce. 

LOBSTER A LA RUSHMORE 

Cook a shallot and four mushroom stalks, chopped fine, in a 
tablespoonful of butter. Add salt and pepper, the meat of 
a two-pound lobster, cut in cubes, and about a cup of hot 
tomato-sauce ; let stand over hot water until thoroughly heated, 
then turn into the clean lobster-shell. Into the top of the 
mixture press four mushroom caps, peeled and sauted five 
minutes in butter; 'pour a little tomato-sauce over these and 
set in the oven about ten minutes. Serve on a folded napkin, 
or surround with parsley. 

LOBSTER IN CREAMrSAUCE 

Lobster-meat, cut in dice, may be mixed with an equal 
bulk of cream-sauce and served in patty cases, shells, etc. 
In making the sauce, chicken, fish, or lobster stock and milk, 
or cream, may be used, either alone, or half and half. 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTER 

With a strong, pointed knife make a deep, sharp cut at the 
mouth, then draw the knife firmly but quickly through the 
body and entire length of tail; open the lobster and take out 
the stomach, or lady, and the intestinal vein, which runs from 
the stomach to the extreme tip of the tail. Pull ofif the small 
claws, wash carefully, and spread in a well-oiled broiler. 
Broil over clear coals about ten minutes on the flesh side, bast- 
ing once with melted butter; turn and broil a few minutes 
less on the -shell side; crack open the large claws and serve 
at once on a hot serving-dish. Pass at the same time melted 
butter. If more convenient, the lobster may be cooked in a 
hot oven about fifteen minutes. Serve half a lobster, or a 
whole one of small size, as a portion. Spread with butter 
before baking. 




SARDINES. SPINACH AND SLICES OF EGG. 

Garnish : Parsley and lemon , 

(See page loo.) 




LOBSTER CUTLETS. (See page 117) 



TURTLE H9 

CRAB RECIPES 
SOFT-SHELLED CRABS, BROILED 

Dress carefully, season with salt, baste with oil or melted 
butter and broil over a slow fire; dress on a hot dish and cover 
with ravigotte butter. 

SOFT-SHELLED CRABS, FRIED 

Dip the dried crabs into milk, then roll in flour and fry to 
a golden color in deep fat; dress on a folded napkin. 

SOFT-SHELLED CRABS SAUTED 

Roll the crabs in flour and sautd in hot clarified butter; 
dress on a hot dish; add a little lemon juice to the butter in 
which the crabs were cooked, strain this over the crabs and 
sprinkle the top with fine-chopped parsley. 

FROGS, TURTLE AND TERRAPIN 
FROGS' LEGS 

In the animal kingdom frogs, turtle, and terrapin rank a 
scale lower than shell-fish. Of frogs, only the hind legs are 
eaten. To prepare these for cooking, the skin is removed, 
after which the legs are parboiled five or six minutes in boiling 
salted, acidulated water. They are quite frequently served 
in a rich sauce with puff-paste, either as a filling for a vol- 
au-vent, or simply surrounded with diamonds or triangles of 
the cooked paste. 

TURTLE 

The name turtle is popularly (not scientifically) applied 
to certain marine reptiles, which, as does also the tortoise, 
resemble in many respects aquatic birds. Those species 
that are exclusively herbivorous are wholesome as food and 
much sought after by epicures. The eggs are considered a 
great delicacy. The calipee, or under part of the breast and 
abdomen, the liver, and fat are the choicest parts. The 
green turtle, so named from the delicate green color of its 
fat, is found in the tropical waters of America and near the 



120 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

West Indies. It feeds on succulent turtle grass and supplies 
food to thousands in the West Indies. This turtle is often 
five or six feet in leilgth and weighs five ot six hundred pounds. 
Green turtle soup is a, favourite dish with epicures. Dried 
green turtle from South America is also used in soups. Half 
a pound of turtle will make soup for eight persons. 

TERRAPIN 

Diamond-back or salt-water terrapin are found all along 
the Atlantic coast, but more especially in Chesapeake Bay 
and its tributaries. Other species are numerous from Mass- 
achusetts to Texas. For those who buy and sell terrapin the 
standard length is six inches. They are captured during 
their season of hibernation, that is from November to May; 
they are at their best from December to April. The six- 
itidh terrapin cost $1.25 per pound. Those of larger size 
are sold at a higher rate. Terrapin is always cooked alive 
by plunging, after beimg carefully washed) head first into boil- 
ing water. Remove from the water in about five minutes, or 
as soon as the thin white skin can be removed from the head 
and feet, then cook without salt or seasoning from thirty to 
thirty-five minutes. 

After dressing, the meat is cut into stnall squares or cubes. 
These may be served k la Newburgh, that is, codked ih cream 
thickened with butter and yolks of eggs, or niade into cro- 
quettes i or cutlets. Fresh terrapin is also served in soups. 
To dress, cool, draw the nails, break the shell on the flat 
side, at both edges and near the top of the shell, detach the 
flat shell from the meat, discarding^ everything but the flesh 
and the liver, after carefully cutting away the gall-bladder 
and the eggs. 

GREEN TURTLE RAGOUT 

Cut the meat into about an inch-and-a-quarter squares; 
saut^ each pint of squares in one-fourth a cup of butter; 
sprinkle over one-fourth a cup of flour and stir until incor- 
porated with the butter, then add, gradually, three cups of 
broth, (chicken preferred) also a sprig of parsley and thyme 



FROG LEGS IN BECHAMEL SAUCE 121 

tied together with a bay leaf, a dozen parboiled button onions, 
a slice of bacon, cut into tiny squares, and half a dozen small 
mushrooms, peeled and broken into bits. Season with salt 
and a piece of red pepper. Let simmer until the flesh is 
tender; remove the pepper and bunch of sweet herbs before 
serving. 

SCALLOPED GREEN TURTLEi 

Cut the meat from a small braised green turtle into quarter- 
inch squares. For one quart of squares fry two onions, chopped 
fine, in one-fourth a cup of butter; sift over one-third a cup 
of flour and hioisten with three cups of stock; add the turtle- 
meat and stir until boiling, then add the sifted yolks of twp 
or three hard-boiled eggs, mixed with one-fourth a cup of 
butter; press through a sieve and add a tablespoonful of fine- 
chopped parsley and several fine-chopped mushrooms, if at 
hand. Fill the carapace, or deep under-shell, with the mix- 
ture. Cover with pracker-crumbs, mixed with melted btltter 
and brown in the oven. 

FRIED FROGS' LEGS 

Dress the hind legs of frogs by removing the skin and feet ; 
parboil five minutes in salted water, acidulated with a little 
lemon juice, or vinegar. Drain, wipe dry, egg-and-bread, 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve on a folded napkin. Gar- 
nish with lemon and parsley. 

SAUTED FROGS' LEGS (CAMP STYLE) 

Prepare the legs as above. Roll in flour or Indian meal 
and saut^ to a golden brown in fat tried out of salt-pork., 

FROGS' LEGS IN BECHAMEL SAUCE 

Prepare a Bechamel sauce and poiir over ihe sauted legs, 
Surround with toast-points. 



CHAPTER IV 
Beef, Mutton, Veal, Lamb, Pork 

BEEF 

"Let beeves and home-bred kine partake 
The sweets of Bum-Mill meadow. " 

— Wordsworth. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF BEEF AS PURCHASED (aTWATER) 

Protein. By dif- Fuel val 

Refuse. Water. N. X6.2S- ference. Fat. Ash. per lb. 

per cent, per cent, percent, per cent, per cent, per cent, calories 
Loin 

(medium fat)... 1 3. 3 52.5 16.1 15.8 17.5 .9 1.040 
Porterhouse 

Steak 12.7 52.4 19. 1 16.2 17.9 .8 i.iio 

Sirloin Steak 12.8 54.0 16.5 16.2 16. i .9 985 

Tenderloin 0.0 Sg.3 16. :« iS-6 24.4 .8 1.330 

Ribs 

(medium fat) ... 20.8 43.8 13.9 13 -5 21. :s 7 1.155 

Ribs, Rolled ... . 0.0 63.9 19 -3 18.5 16.7 .9 1.065 

Round 7.2 60.7 19.0 18.3 12.8 i.o 895 

HindShank 53.9 31.3 g.6 9.1 5.3 .4 405 




122 



BEEF 



123 



S bo 

•29 
05 



■a 



fa. -a 



1^ 

n 

m 
o 

Q 



V S . 

rt U_l ti_t '^ 

.<" n o ?? 



v 



o 
^ S J! « " ■«■ S 



1 g-g^^'«fi'«t;1 s 



^3 



Ji J^ 4J -i^ +3 



nl, OS I1 'S b 5 



o M M w ftg M-d-a 









^ 






i 



■ a 



(U ■ 



10 

i M 



"S sa'bS s s R « 

-S o'o'o'o 

CO OJ 

r^ r^ ri V Hi <D <u o 
o SJSb 0000 



el s R R 



,. <* i3 b ►< ^^ 

bo v ,Q ,Q .0 O 



•O 

a 



f 



^ 



■&I 



S 5 



0) 

a 
o 
n 



0) 

fin 



■^ o o <u 



<U 4J 

disss 



0) 

Bf'j'd R-d C 
m'-' Rpq Rcq 

•^ R „ u ^ S* 

J3 g^ <j s s 



a "d 



o 



0< 



o 



o 

-d 
R 






■d ca D^j<^ 



•d 



j3' 



^ 



PO -^ lovo i>. 00 . O O i~< 



Hind-Quarter. 



Fore-Quarter. 



134 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Tonguei fresh or corned Boiled, Braised 

Heart . • . i Stuffed and B raised 

Liver Boiled or Fried. 

Kidneys Stewed (Ragout). 

Tail Soup, Braised. 

Tripe Broiled, fried in batter, etc 

Beef dressed for the market is divided at the backbone 
into two parts, each of which is termed a side of beef. The 
weight of a side is from three to five hundred pounds. Of 
this much less than one hundred pounds is tender meat, suit- 
able for quick cooking, as roasted, or broiled meat. But 
while meat thus cooked is better relished and, oftentimes 
better adapted to our physical condition, it is less nutritious 
than those parts that are nourished by muscular use and 
v/hich, in consequence, secrete juice and flavour. For these 
cuts long slow cooking, with moisture, is needed to soften the 
collagen, so that the little bundles of fibres may fall apart 
easily, when they come in contact with the teeth. 

The lean in beef of good quality is of a dark purple color 
when first cut, but soon it turns to bright red. It should be 
coated and, especially the tenderer cuts, well mottled with fat. 
The fat in beef of prime quality is firm, of a light yellowish 
color, and crumbles easily. What is fat in a good quality of 
meat is water in a less desirable article. The neck and fore- 
quartet of an ox, or sheep contain more nutritive value than 
the juiceless tenderloin and other more tender and more 
expensive cuts. Broth from the neck of mutton has more 
flavor than that made of a cut from the ribs. So, also, in 
making chicken broth the first choice would be the legs and 
wings of the fowl. 

In all markets a side of beef is divided into hind and fore- 
quarter, but the point of this division, as also for other smaller 
divisions, varies in different sections of the country, and at 
different markets in the same section. In New York city 
markets the division into hind and fore-quarter is so made 
that the thirteen ribs are included in the fore-quarter. In 
Boston ttiat-kets three ribs are included iti the hind-quarter. 
In a few Boston markets the rump, separated from the loin. 



ROAST BEEF 125 

is cut into roasts and stews, the upper part, or back of the 
rump, giving, a large and choice roast. This custom is not 
general and is usually frowned upon by m9,rketmen who cater 
to fan^ily trade. When meat comes from the market, remove 
it at once from the paper in which it is wrapped, wipe 
the outside with a damp cloth — do not w^sh — cut off 
any unsightly bits and set aside in a cool place — ^but not 
directly upon the ice — ^until the time for cooking- 

ROAST BEEF 

The choicest pieces for roasting are from the rump and the 
loin. The first five ribs in the fore-quarter are also roasted ; 
the first two ribs make a very good roast, particularly when 
the beef, is of first quality. The chuck ribs are often roasted, 
but unless the meat is much better than the average, it is 
likely to prove unsatisfactory. The tenderloin is often 
removed whole (or divided, when the njmp is separated from 
the loin) and cooked as a roast. Being dry and without 
flavor, it is usually larded and served with a rich, higli- 
flavored sauce. 

Let the meat to be roasted, skewered, or tied in a compact 
form, rest on a rack in a dripping-pan' skin side down ; dredge 
with flour and sear over the outside in a hot oven, then add 
salt and pepper and drippings and cook at a low temperature 
until done, basting, i.e., dipping the melted fat in the pan 
over the meat, every ten minutes. After a time turn the 
roast, to brown the skin side. When properly cooked 
the outside fat is, crisp and brown, the lean beneath is 
browned to the depth of one-fourth an inch and the whole 
interior is evenly red and juicy. Ribs are roasted just as 
they are cut, as a "standing roast," or boned and rolled. 
To serve a standing roast, let it rest on the ribs and cut in 
slices parallel to the bones. Before cooking tie a boned roast 
rolled into cylindrical shape, securely. To serve, remove 
the cords (skewers may be used), place the meat, resting on 
one of the ends, on the serving-dish, and cut in horizontal 
slices. Serve Franconia potatoes around the roast. 



126 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RIB ROAST. FORE-QUARTER 

Only the first five ribs of the fore-quarter are suitable foi 
roasting. Remove the "eye" of tender meat, separate the 
outside layer of fat from the strip of tough lean meat under- 
neath, and tie the fat about the eye securely, passing the cord 
around several times. Cook and serve as a rolled roast. 
Pass the tough meat through a chopper several times, season, 
and shape into 

TENDERLOIN CUTLETS 

Season the chopped meat with salt, two, or three drops of 
tabasco-sauce, onion juice, and a little Worcestershire sauce. 
Form into cutlet shapes about three-fourths an inch thick ; egg- 
and-breadcrumb and fry in deep fat about five minutes; set 
the fat in a cooler place after the cutlets are immersed, to 
avoid coloring too brown before the meat is cooked. Serve 
around a support, or a socle, of rice or hominy. Surround 
with slices of potato, cut lattice or other fashion and fried 
in deep fat. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

I 1-2 cups of pastry flour. Scant half a teaspoonful of salt. 

I i-2 cups of milk. 3 eggs. 

Sift together the flour and salt; add the milk, gradually, so 
as to form a smooth batter, then add the eggs, beaten until 
thick and light; turn into a very hot gem-pan, the inside of 
which has been brushed over with roast-beef dripping; when 
well risen in the pan baste with the hot roast-beef drippmg. 
"Bake about twenty minutes. Serve around the roast. Set 
the gem-pah into a dripping-pan before basting. The 
pudding may also be baked in a small drippiug-j5an and cut 
into squares for serving. * 

BEEF A LA MODE 

With strips of cloth bind six or eight pounds of beef from 
the top of the round into circular shape. Make incisions 
with a b .arp knife, and into these press lardoons of salt-pork 




RIB ROAST OF BEEF. TWO RIBS FROM FORE QUARTER. 
(See page 126.) 



firm 




VEAL LOAF READY FOR BAKING (See page 150.) 




CANNELON OF BEEF WITH MACARONI A LA ITALIENNE. 
(See page uo.l ^J-, 



SRAISED BEEF 127 

half an inch thick; make other incisions, and press into these 
bread-stuffing. Heat drippings or trimmings from the salt- 
pork, and in this brown the outside of the meat ; add a sprig 
or two of parsley, two onions and half a carrot, sliced, then 
half cover with boiling water and let simmer until tender. 
Five to seven hours will be required; replenishing with hot 
water as needed. An iron pot with tight-fitting cover is 
the best utensil to use for this dish. If the meat rests on a 
trivet, turning may be avoided. Garnish with boiled onions, 
seasoned, basted with butter and browned in ■ a hot oven. 
Skim the fat from the liquid in which the meat was cooked; 
thicken the latter with flour and water, strain and serve as 
a sauce ^vith the meat. If there be considerable liquid, 
thicken a part, and set the meat aside to cool in the rest. 

BRAISED BEEF 

In the absence of a braising-pan a large earthenware cas- 
serole is desirable. Brown five or six pounds of beef from 
the rump or round, on all sides in a hot frying-pan (using 
fat from the top of the soup-kettle, or that tried out from 
salt-pork). Sprinkle half a cup, each, of small cubes of salt- 
pork, carrot, onion, and celery into the casserole and place 
the meat on these; add about a pint of stock or water, a 
bay leaf, a piece of red pepper or six peppercorns, and three 
cloves tied in a sprig of parsley. Spread a few more cubes 
of vegetables on the top of the meat and add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, if water be used, with seasoned stock it may be 
omitted. Put on the cover, bind a strip of cloth spread with 
flour-paste over the joining of the dish and cover and let 
cook in a very slow oven about six hours. Thoroughly rinse 
the pan, in which the meat was browned, with the stock or 
water, to retain the browned juices from the meat. The 
meat may be dredged with flour while browning, or a brown- 
sauce may supplant the stock or water. Strain the sauce 
and serve poured over the meat, or in a sauce-boat. Thicken 
with roux, if not already of the desired consistency. This 
kind of a casserole is not intended for table use. For a change 
serve some of the vegetables with the meat. When a dish 



128 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

is used from which the cover can be easily taken, vegetables, 
cut in match-like pieces, or fanciful shapes, and blanched 
may be added to the dish just in time to become tender. , 
Serve these around the meat; celery, carrot, and, occasionally, 
turnip are suitable for this purpose. A cup of tomato pur^e, 
added when the meat is half cooked, is often an improvement ; 
so also is a little grated horseradish, 

FILLET OF BEEF ROASTED 

The fillet of beef is taken from underneath that part pf the 
backbone, which is included in the lower part of the sirloin 
and the rump. Ordinarily it is cut as a part of the steaks or 
roasts' ii| these joints, and when removed whole for a fillet 
these steaks or roasts are less desirable by so much- The part 
under the rump is called the short fillet, that under the sirloin 
the long fillet. When the whole fillet is needed it should be 
cut out before the division into loin and rump has been made. 
If this is not done, the two pieces need be skewered together. 
The whole fillet spUs for seventy-five cents to one dollar per 
pound; the short fillet (from the rump) at about thirty-five 
cents per pound. The rump steaks are large, and the loss 
of the tenderloin is not so apparent as it is in the smaller 
sirloin steaks, hence the difference in price. The rump fillet 
weighs about two pounds and a half and is an economical cut 
for occasional use. In dressing a 'fillet the sinewy covering 
on one side and the superfluous fat on the other are removed. 
It is then trimmed into shape and the thin end folded under. 
This leaves nothing but fine-grained tender meat. Being 
destitute of flavor, this must be added in the cooking. 
Lard the whole upper surface with salt-pork, dredge with flour 
and bake half an hour. Baste frequently with fat from the 
stock-kettle, or salt-pork, the first, on account of the flavor 
of the vegetables used in the stock, being preferred. Season 
with salt and pepper when half cooked, The oven needs be 
very hot at first. Serve with a brown mushroom sauce (see 
page 229). The sauce may be poured upon the serving-dish 
and the fillet placed in the centre with the mushrooms around 
it. Or the fillet nxay be surrounded "with potato, mashed, and 



BEEF STEW 129 

pressed through a ricer, and the sauce served from the sauce- 
boat. To serve, cut obliquely, rather than straight across. 
Serve a little gravy and three or four mushrooms (canned 
button) in the centre of each slice. For a change, it may be 
served with Soubise, Bernaise, or tomato-sauce. MTjshrooms 
may be added to the tomato-sauce. A fillet is also particularly 
good, served surrounded with tomatoes stuffed with mush- 
rooms (see page 323). Serve brown sauce, made from the 
liquid in both pans, brown roux and rich brown stock as 
needed. 

CANNELON OF BEEF 

2 pounds of lean beef from top of i teaspoonful of onion juice. 

round. 1-4 a teaspoonful of mace. 

I tablespoonful of fine-chopped i egg, beaten. 

parsley. 1-3 a cup of soft bread crumbs. 

I teaspoonful of salt 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 

Pass the meat through a chopper several times ; add the other 
ingredients, the egg, beaten, and the bread crumbs, wrung dry, 
after standing some time in cold water; mix thoroughly and 
shape in a roll. Bake on a rack in a small pan between thirty 
and forty minutes. Baste frequently with fat from salt- 
pork and hot water. Serve with tomato, or mushroom- 
sauce, or with macaroiii h, la Italienne. Saut6d mushroom 
trimmings, added to the cannelon with the other seasonings, 
give a pleasing variety to this dish. 

BEEF STEW 

The best cuts for a stew are those containing both lean and 
fat meat and some bone. The fiank end of a large roast, 
a few pounds from the middle of the hind shin, or a cut from 
the chuck ribs, are all good selections. Remove such portion 
of the meat from the bones as is convenient and cut into small 
pieces. Saw the bones into pieces of convenient size for the 
saucepan. These, are to be removed before the dish is served. 
Wipe the bones carefully to avoid any bits of bone. Saut^ 
the meat — all, or a part — ^in the marrow from the shin-bone, 
or, lacking this, in drippings, or salt-pbrlc fat. For two 



130 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pounds of meat saut^ to a delicate color one onion, cut in 
rings, one carrot (small) cut in cubes, and a small white turnip, 
also cut small; add three pints of light stock or water, and 
half a red or green pepper; let simmer very gently three hours 
or more, until the meat is tender; remove the bones, skim 
off the fat and add about two pounds of sliced potatoes, par- 
boiled five minutes and drained. Season with salt. When 
the potatoes are tender, remove the meat to the centre of the 
serving-dish ; surround with the potatoes and • broth. The 
meat while browning may be dredged with flour, thus giving 
a thicker broth. Half a cup of blanched rice may be added 
ten minutes before the potatoes. A pint of tomato purde 
(cooked tomatoes strained to exclude skin and seeds) may 
take the place of a part of the stock or water. In making 
a stew from the remnants of roast beef, prepare a stock of 
the bones, browned fat, and unsightly portions of the roast, 
strain, remove the fat, and use with the vegetables bits of 
good meat and any platter gravy, or brown-sauce remaining. 
The bones are included for the sake of the juices and flavor 
of flesh that may adhere to them. 

CORNED BEEF 

. The "fancy brisket" is considered the best cut of corned- 
beef. It may be known by the "selvage" on the lower side 
and the absence of bones. It is close, fine-grained meat and 
requires longer cooking than other pieces that are corned. 
The second cut of the rattle rand (see chart, page 122) con- 
tains three distinct layers of lean and fat of salted beef. To 
cook, rinse the meat in cold water, tie, or skewer in shape, 
and put over the fire, covered with cold water; heat slowly to 
the boiling point. After boiling five minutes remove the 
scum and let simmer gently until tender. Five to eight hours 
will be required. Remove from the water, cover and keep 
hot, while pared potatoes and tilrnips are cooked in the liquid. 
Cook other vegetables, as beets, cabbage, and carrots, apart. 
If the meat is to be served cold, let partly cool in the liquid 
in which it is cooked. In this case do not cook the vegetables 
in the meat liquor. 




SIRLOIN STEAK. TENDERLOIN IN FRONT. 
( Sec pace I ,^ I .) 




RIB CHOP TRIMMED FRENCH CHOP. RIB CHOP 

UNTRIMMED. LOIN CHOP. (See pages ij7 and 141.) 




CROWN ROAST OP LAMB. 

Rib bones covered with p>aper frills. Centre filled with glazed 

chestnuts. (See page 140.) 



BEEFSTEAK 131 



BOILED BEEF TONGUE 

Cook a corned or pickled tongue in the same manner as 
comed beef. Let cook until very tender, four hours or 
more, then partially cool in the liquid, but remove to peelofE 
the skin before the tongue becomes cold. Serve cold, sUced 
thin. Garnish with a macedoine of vegetables, as peas, aspar- 
agus tips, carrots, and turnip, cut in cubes and moulded in aspic 
jelly. Pass mayonnaise or Tartare sauce, at the same time, 
or use jelly and mayonnaise in moulding. (See also Tongue 
Moulded in Aspic Jelly and Tongue in Chaudfroid Sauce 
on pages 278 and 282). Salt the boiling water in which a 
fresh tongue is put to cook; it will cook in about two hours; 
vegetables added to the water are an improvement, the liquid 
may be used for soup. A boiled tongue, fresh or salt, is often 
glazed and served on a bed of spinach k la crSme, or of plain 
cooked spinach; with the latter serve sauce piquante. A 
fresh tongue may be braised (see page 17). 

BEEFSTEAK 

DESCRIPTION AND NAMES GIVEN TO BEEFSTEAK 

Steaks are cut from the round — those from the top, known 
by the thick ridge of fat, being the best round-steaks — from 
the loin, and the rump. Steaks from the loin nearest the 
fore-quarter are known as short, club, or Delmonico steaks; 
they are without tenderloin, and the flank end is small; three 
of them contain a rib-bone each. Steaks from the rump end 
of the sirloin are called hip or flat-bone sirloin ; they contain 
quite a large fiat bone, flank and tenderloin. Steaks between 
the short and hip-bone sirloin contain the best part of the 
tenderloin. These are the true sirloin steaks. They are 
often called tenderloin, and, sometimes, porterhouse steaks. 
A steak may be flattened, or batted into uniform thickness 
with a cleaver, or cutlet-bat, wet in cold water. If tough, 
brush over with a mixture of one tablespoonful of vinegar to 
two tablespoonfuls of oil. The acetic acid in the vinegar 
softens the collagen, and the oil, by excluding the air, keeps 
the meat in good condition while bacteria are softening the 



132 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

collagen in the fibres. After being thus treated a steak may 
stand several hours, or, by repeating the process, several 
days, according to the season, etc. 

TO BROIL A STEAK 

Wipe, trim off superfluous fat and flank end, bat into shape ; 
heat the broiler very hot, — a heavy wire double-broiler is 
the most convenient — ^rub it over with a bit of the fat and 
put in the meat with the ridge of fat towards the handle of 
the broiler, to insure the basting of the meat during cooking. 
At first hold the broiler close to the clear coals, count ten 
and turn; count ten again, then, the juices being imprisoned 
by the strong heat, remove to a greater distance from the 
fire, and continue cooking and turning the meat every ten 
seconds, to insure slow and even cooking. Have the dampers 
in the range open as in building the fire, to carry the smoke 
from the fat up the chimney. 

Steaks may be cut an inch thick, but are better an inch 
and a half thick. From five to eight minutes' cooking is 
needed for the first, and eight to ten minutes for the latter. 
When properly broiled the steak is puffy from the expansion 
of the collagen and the moisture imprisoned within; it is 
well browned to the depth of one-eighth an inch, juicy and 
uniformly red in appearance within. If the length of cooking 
and the general appearance of the steak do not indicate its 
condition to satisfaction, place the broiler over a dripping- 
pan and make a small clean cut at one'end. This will indicate 
its condition conclusively. When done, remove to the serv- 
ing-dish, which should be warm; sprinkle with salt, (omit 
pepper, unless without doubt it be agreeable to all), spread 
with cold maltre d'hotel butter (see page 241) the heat of 
the steak should melt the butter — or with hot Bemaise sauce. 
Mushroom, or tomato-sauce is also admissible. Garnish 
with slices of lemon, with water-cress, pepper-grass, or parsley. 
Serve with potatoes in some form. French fried, Saratoga, 
mashed, baked (white, or sweet), and escalloped potatoes, 
are all in favor with steak. In Virginia a steak spread with 



CHATEAUBRIAND A LA PIERCE 



^33 



maltre d'hotel butter is accompanied by Baltimore samp, 
in cream-sauce, with parsley. 

HAMBURG STEAK 

I pound of round steak. 1-2 a teaspbonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of onion juice or i egg and a dash of pepper, if 

grated onion. • desired. 

Chop the steak very fine and mix thoroughly with the 
other ingredients ; the egg may be used, or not, it helps hold 
the meat together during cooking. With hands, or knife and 
spoon, wet in cold water, shape the mixture into a steak, or 
small flat cakes. Have the edges of the meat of the same 
thickness as the centre. Broil in a deep double-broiler with 
wires running at right angles, or saut^ first one side and then 
on the other in hot drippings or fat from salt-pork. Serve 
with brown or tomato sauce. 

HUNGARIAN STEW (MRS. T. B. WHEELOCK, MINNESOTA) 

2 pounds of lean beef, shoulder 1-2 a cup of cream, sweet or sour. 

steak. I teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 1-43 teaspoonful of caraway seed 

2 tablespoonfuls of fine-cut onion. 1-4 a teaspoonful of sweet mar- 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter pr suet. joram. 

I level tablespoonful of flour. Paprika to taste. 

I -2 a cup of hot water or broth. 

Cut the meat in half-inch cubes, put in a granite dish (not 
tin), add vinegar and salt, and let stand an hour or two. 
Heat the butter in a porcelain-lined iron kettle ; add the onions 
and cook until tender, not brown ; add meat and spices, and 
cover closely so the steam will not escape ; let simmer slowly 
until the moisture is absorbed and brown, stirring often. Add 
half a cup of hot broth or water and the flour mixed in cold 
water. Just before serving, add the cream and shake in 
paprika to taste. 

CHATEAUBRIAND A LA PIERCE 

Chateaubriand, so called from a certain famous French 
gourmet, is a thick steak cut from- the centre of a fillet of beef. 



134 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

When a large steak is desired, two steaks are cut from the 
centre of a fillet, but are not quite severed and when trimmed 
and spread open they appear like one steak. Often a tender- 
loin steak, cut between two and three inches thick and skewered 
into a round shape, is used. Remove fat, flank end and 
bone, and press the meat into a circular shape; flatten with 
a /wet bat or cleaver and broil in a well-oiled broiler from 
eighteen to twenty-five minutes, turning every ten seconds. 
Turn about a cup and a half of brown mushroom-sauce upon 
a hot serving-dish and dispose the steak upon it and the 
mushrooms above the steak. Surround with stuffed tomatoes 
and green peppers. A Chateaubriand is often spread simply 
with maitre d'hotel butter. When cut thicker than three 
inches it is better roasted, or braised. It may be roasted, 
then scored with the wires of a very hot broiler. 

FLANK STEAK 

Embedded in fat, below the sirloin, is A thin strip of lean 
meat weighing about two pounds, called flank steak. This 
sells for about twenty-five cents. It is comparatively juicy, 
but lacking in flavor. The dealer pulls off the fat and thin 
skin underneath, and then scores the outside upon both sides 
diagonally. Broil about six minutes. Serve with a brown, 
or tomato-sauce. This steak is often spread with highly 
seasoned bread dressing, then rolled up tightly and braised 
with vegetables and a small quantity of liquid in a casserole. 

TO PICKLE TRIPE FOR OCCASIONAL USE 

Wash tripe from creature freshly dressed, changing the water 
several times ; dust the dark inside coat with quicklime and 
scrape at once. Cut in four pieces, dip in boiling water, and 
scrape until perfectly white. Wash in water slightly salted; 
then soak five or six days in water, slightly salted, changing 
the water daily. For immediate use, simmer in water until 
tender; if it is to be kept, boil eight or ten minutes, then 
drain and cover with hot vinegar. 

To prepare pickled tripe for serving in any manner: wash 
thoroughly in cold water, then simmer until tender in equal 
parts of milk and water, or in water alone. 



ox TAIL, BRAISED 



BROILED TRIPE 



I3S 



Simmer a pound of pickled tripe (the hone}'comb tripe 
is best) about half an, hour, or until tender, in sufficient milk 
and water to cover. Drain, wipe dry, and cut into pieces 
for serving. Dip each piece in melted butter or oil, season 
with salt and pepper, and boil over a clear fire until well 
colored. Serve with tomato or Tartare sauce. 

CURRIED TRIPE 

Brown an onion, cut into rings, in one-fourth a cup of 
butter; to this add one pound of tripe, prepared as before, 
and cut in small pieces, also broth to cover nearly and simmer 
until tender. Mix two tablespoonfuls of floiir with two table- 
spoonfuls of curry-powder; dilute with half a cup of cream, 
and, when smooth, stir into the tripe and cook about ten 
minutes, stirring often. Turn onto a hot dish and garnish 
with croutons of fried bread. 

TRIPE, POULETTE STYLE 

Saute an onion, chopped fine, in one-fourth a cup of butter. 
When well colored add one pound of tripe, cut in small 
squares, season with half a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pa- 
prika, and saut^ until the mixture has evaporated; add one- 
fourth a cup of flour, and, when this is absorbed by the butter, 
gradually a scant pint of stock, with a sprig of parsley, or a 
grating of nutmeg. Boil three or four minutes, then simmer 
until the tripe is tender. Beat one tablespoonful of butter 
to a cream, add the yolks of two eggs and one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice and stir into the mixture without allowing it 
to come to a boil. Serve at once. 

OX TAIL, BRAISED 

Separate an ox-tail into pieces at the joints, having each 
piece about three inches in length; saut^ in hot butter or 
drippings with a sliced onion, a sliced carrot (half if the latter 
are large) and about an ounce of raw ham, fine chopped. 
When all are well browned, remove to a casserole and add a 



136 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



sprig of thyme, half a bay leaf, and also, if at hand, about 
half a chopped or shredded pepper. Brown one-fourth a 
cup of flour in the pan, add a pint, each, of tomatoes and stock, 
and, when boiling, pour over the joints in the casserole; let 
cook about three hours; add a glass of sherry wine, more 
seasoning if needed, and half a can of peas, if a cup of fresh 
cooked peas be not at hand. For variation omit the tomato, 
using stock in its place. The thickening may also be omitted. 
The joints may be egged- and-breadcrumbed and fried in deep 
fat. Thus cooked, serve with tomato sauce, or sauce Tartare. 



MUTTON AND LAMB 

" Pray you, who does the wolf love?" — Coriolanus, 2, i. 

AVERAGE CHEMICAL C0M"P0SITI0N OF IfEDIUM FAT MUTTON 
AND LAMB AS PURCHASED (aTWATER) 



Refuse. 
Mutton. Per 

Cent. 

Leg, hind 18.4 

Loin 16.0 

Shoulder. 22-5 

Lamb. 

Breast 19. i 

Leg, hind 13.4 

Loin 14.8 



All kinds of meat when first slaughtered are tender, but 
soon stiffen owing to the clotting of certain proteids in com- 
position, which were liquid during life. After being kept, or, 
technically speaking, "hung" for some time, meat becomes 
more tender, due to the tearing-down processes of bacteria. 
Beef should hang in a dry cool place for at least three weeks, 
and mutton much longer. In England the Christmas "shoul- 
der of mutton" is hung for six weeks, being rubbed over 
every few days with salt and vinegar. Mutton and lamb 
are often cut into "sides" in the same manner as beef,' but 
occasionally, the first division is made to include the two fore 
quarters in one piece and the hind-quarters m the other. 



Water. 

Per 
Cent. 


Protein 

NX6.2S. 

Per 

Cent. 


Fat. 

Per 

Cent. 


Ash. 

Per 

Cent. 


FuelVal. 
per lb. 
Cal- 
ories. 


51-2 


I5-I 


14.7 


.8 


900 


42.0 


I3-S 


28.3 


•7 


1-445 


47-9 


13-7 


■^5-5 


•7 


910 


4S-5 


15-4 


19. 1 


.8 


1 .090 


47-3 


iS-8 


23-7 


.8 


1.29s 


4S-3 


16.0 


24.1 


.8 


1-315 



CUTS OF MUTTON AND LAMB 



137 







MUTTON 






Cuts. 




Weight. 


How Cooked. 


§ 1 


Shoulder. 
_ Neck. 


Scrag End. 
Cutlet End. 


S to 8 pounds. 
2 1-2 to 4 " 

2 1-2 to 4 " 


i Braised, steamed, 

boiled. 
Stew, broth- 
Stew, steamed. 




'Leg. 




8 to 9 


Boiled, roasted. 




Loin. 


r Best End. 


3 to 4 


Cutlets or roast. 


1 




Chump End. 


' to 3 


Cutlets or roast. 


[Ji 


[ Saddle. 




10 to 14 " 


Roast. 



This division gives means for the cutting of a "saddle" 
of mutton, or lamb. A sheep two or three years old, or 
even older, supplies the best mutton. Lamb is from a creature 
'six to twelve weeks old. Mutton is a staple. Lamb appears in 
market as early as January, but is high in price even at Easter, 
when spring lamb with mint-sauce and green peas are con- 
sidered, time out of mind, the most recherche of - Easter 
dinners. But lamb two months old is dear at any time, 
and dearer still are peas in April, which are grown in a hot- 
house. The flavor of neither the lamb nor the peas will, in 
general, compensate for the price; so a roast of mutton, — ■ 
saddle, crown, or leg, — and new string beans, grown more 
easily than peas, will more frequently appear in evidence on 
this day. 

CUTS OF MUTTON AND LAMB 

When mutton and lamb are divided into sides and then into 
fore and hind-quarters, eight ribs, instead of three, as in beef, 
are left on the hind quarter. These eight ribs, cut into chops, 
are the rib-chops; chops cut between these and the leg are 
the loin, kidney, 'or English chops. These chops correspond 
to the tenderloin steaks in beef and, though smaller, are iden- 
tical in shape and general make-up, having flank end, kidney 



138 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

fat, tenderloin, and lean tender meat above the tenderloin, 
Rib chops, which have the bone shortened and scraped clean 
of meat nearly to the "eye, " or kernel, are known as French 
chops. The hind leg, with what corresponds to the round of 
beef, is sold as leg .of lamb, or mutton. It is roasted or boiled- 
Roasted or boiled mutton is served a little underdone ; lamb, 
like veal, is preferable when thoroughly cooked. The fore- 
quarter is sold entire, or cut into shoulder and "scrag" (neck 
piece). This may be boiled or steamed, then browned in 
the oven. Before cooking it may be boned and rolled. It 
is also used for broth or stew. For a "saddle" the loin is 
removed whole. "The crown" is fashioned from the ribs 
on corresponding sides. 

The fat of mutton of good quality is much whiter than that 
of beef. The bones of mutton are white, of lamb red. 

People who think they- dislike mutton would be surprised 
at the difference in taste brought about by a little attention 
to simple details in cooking. The strong flavor attributable 
to mutton is largely centred in the pink outer skin. This, 
as also the caul, which is usually skewered about the leg 
and saddle, should be carefully removed before cooking. In 
roasting place the joint upon the rack (not upon the bottom 
of the dripping-pan in the melted fat) and baste with drip- 
pings from salt-pork, if preferred. The loin is rather, more 
delicate in flavor than the leg, but the latter is the more 
economical piece to buy. 

LEG OF MUTTON, ROASTED 

Remove the caul, pink skin, and superfluous fat; cut the 
leg bone short, set into a hot oven for fifteen minutes, then 
reduce the heat, dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and 
baste with bacon or salt-pork drippings and hot water. 
Cook about an hour and a half, longer if liked well done. 
Dress the bone with a paper frill and surround on the serving- 
dish with buttered string-beans. Franconia potatoes, white 
turnips, parboiled and then cooked and basted with the 
meat, are also served acceptably with mutton or lamb. 
Currant jelly, spiced currants, bananas, baked or fried, 01 




LARDED SWEETBREAD BAKED. TOURAINE STYLE. 
(See page 15 j.) 




SADDLE OF MUTTON, ROASTED. 
Garnish: Glazed turnip cups filled with peas. (See page 139.) 




BROILED MUTTON CHOPS AROUND A MOUND OF SPINACH. 
(See pages 141 and 142.) 



SADDLE OF MUTTON, ROASTED 139 

in fritters, are all appropriate with roast mutton. The loin 
being thinner— especially if the kidney and fat surrounding 
It be removed — ^may be roasted in less time. 

BONED-AND-STUFFED LEG OF MUTTON 

It is but the work of a very few minutes to remove the 
bone from a leg of mutton. Fill the open space with a bread 
dressing, highly flavored with sweet herbs or poultry season- 
ing, and salt and pepper. Sew the meat into a compact 
shape and roast about an hour and three quarters. Serve 
as above. What is "left over" is good cold. Add an egg 
to the dressing, if much of it is to be served cold. To bone, 
cut off the leg at the joint corresponding to the knee, loosen 
the flesh around this joint and with fingers and back of a 
small knife push the meat away from the bone at least as 
far as the next joint. Then reverse the leg and push and 
cut the meat from the hip-bone, and so on until the meat is 
detached from bone throughout, when it may be pulled out 
from above. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON, ROASTED 

The saddle may be cut either with or without the flank. 
The flank is more satisfactory, cooked some other way, but 
the saddle presents a better appearance, when the flank 
is retained; it is often rolled up on each side and kept in 
place by stitches in three or four places. If the flank be 
thus rolled, to insure thorough cooking, this side of the saddle 
should be placed uppermost — ^that is, to the greatest heat — 
when the joint is first put into the oven, or rather after the 
initial process of searing over the outside h^s been completed. 
All superfluous fat should be removed. Dredge with salt, 
pepper, and flour; cook from one hour and three-fourths to 
two hours and half. Garnish with rings of cooked carrot 
holding asparagus, or with turnip cups, glazed and filled 
with creamed peas, or asparagus tips. Carve in long slices 
parallel with the backbone, then turn the knife and cut down 
to the rib-bones. Turn the saddle and cut the tenderloin, 
also, in slices, parallel to the backbone. The tenderloin may 



I40 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

be carefully removed, cut in slices, and returned to place, 
before the joint is sent to the table. Let currant jelly accom- 
pany the dish. 

CROWN ROAST OF MUTTON OR LAMB 

A crown roast is the most easily served and, at the same 
time, is the handsomest roast that has been devised. It may 
be fashioned from a full loin, but is of more perfect shape, 
when cut from both loins and fastened together at the sides. 
Cut the same number of ribs from both sides of a rack of 
mutton, selecting ribs on one side that correspond to those 
on the other. Cut the ribs apart at the backbone, but separate 
the chops no farther. Trim the bones as for French 
chops, removing the trimmings to make the meat on the chops 
of uniform height. Or leave the trimmings on each side in 
one piece and roll this over and over backwards. When the 
ends are joined, a circle or crown of meat is formed. If 
necessary, trim the bones, to make all the same in length. 
Cover the ends of the bones securely with strips of salt-pork. 
Rub with salt, or add the salt when partly cooked. Set in 
a hot oven ten or fifteen minutes, then reduce the heat, and, 
if necessary to keep the dripping from burning, add hot water. 
Ba:ste with the dripping, and cook from forty-five to sixty 
minutes, basting often. If convenient, press a cup into the 
cientre of the circle of meat, to insure its shape. To serve, 
fill the centre from which the cup has been taken with green 
peas, blanched chestnuts, cooked tender in stock and glazed, 
Saratoga, Bernhardt, or French fried potatoes. A crown 
roast usually sells for twenty-five cents per pound, the flank 
being included in weighing the meat. Often the flank is not 
sent with the crown unless by special request. As the flank 
makes up nearly half the weight paid for, it should be claimed, 
being good for a stew. 

BOILED MUTTON 

The leg and shoulder are the pieces usually boiled. Put 
over the fire, barely covered with boiling water, and let boil 
about ten minutes, then simmer until tender; season with 



MUTTON CHOPS, BROILED 141 

salt when half cooked. A few slices of onion, carrot, and 
turnip, or two or three stalks of celery, may be added while 
cooking. When tender, brush over the meat with drawn- 
butter sauce and sprinkle with fine-chopped parsley. Serve 
with drawn butter-sauce, to a cup of which two tablespoonfuls 
of capers or chopped pickles have been added. The broth 
makes a particularly good tomato soup. 

, MUTTON OR LAMB STEW 

2 or 3 pounds neck of mutton or A sprig of parsley with a bay 
lamb. leaf,cloves and peppercorns. 

2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of dripping. Salt. 

2 onions. 6 potatoes. 

I carrot. t pint of tomato pur^e 

Cut the meat into pieces two inches square, stir and brown 
in the hot dripping, add the onions, cut in pieces,with the spices 
and parsley and water to nearly cover the meat, and let simmer 
about two hours, then add the carrot, pared and sliced with a 
handy sheer (this gives a fluted edge), the salt, potatoes, cut in 
thick slices, and the tomato purde; let simmer very slowly, 
until the meat and vegetables are tender. Wrap the bay 
leaf, cloves, and peppercorns in the parsley, to remove all 
together. A piece of red pepper is preferable to the pepper- 
corns. If more water be needed, add it cautiously, as a thin 
stew is not desirable. If lamb be used instead of mutton, 
the time of cooking should be shortened one-half or more. 
Green peas, about a pint, are a pleasing addition to a lamb 
stew. The tomato may be omitted or not. 

MUTTON CHOPS, BROILED 

Mutton chops should be cut at least an inch thick; trim off 
superfluous fat ; the small flank ends of loin chops may be cut 
off for the soup kettle, or skewered around the rest of the chop. 
The bones of rib chops should be trimmed to uniform length, 
then scraped clean down to the eye of tender meat. Or the 
meat, pushed from the bone, may be slit lengthwise a short 
distance, pulled over the rib-bone (the slit lets the bone 
through) and then around the chop and a tiny wooden skewer, 



142 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

dipped in melted butter, will hold it in place until it is cooked. 
Wipe the chops very carefully, to remove bits of crushed bone, 
and broil in the same manner as beef-steak, about . eight 
minutes. When done, spread with butter and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Dress in a circle, one overlapping another, 
with potato-balls, straws, chips, or green peas, or string- 
beans, in the centre of the dish. Blanched chestnuts, cooked 
in broth, the broth then thickened with brown or white roux 
are good as an occasional accompaniment to chops. So also 
is a pur^e of onions. Or arrange the chops against a mound 
of mashed potato or chopped spinach. Rib chops are im- 
proved in appearance and may be handled (in eating) more 
conveniently, if the end of the bone be covered with a paper 
chop-frill. These cost about forty cents per hundred, or 
they may be fashioned at home. 

ROAST LAMB 

Either the fore or hind-quarter of a spring lamb may be 
roasted ; the hind-quarter is more easily carved, but the price 
is twice that of the fore-quarter. Eighteen minutes to the 
pound with frequent basting will be required for cooking. 
The accompaniments are mint-sauce, new string-beans, aspar- 
agus, or peas. 

MUTTON CHOPS, FRIED 

Prepare the chops as for broiling; rub each side of the chops 
with the cut side of an onion, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
if desired, then egg-and-breadcrumb and fry in deep fat five 
or six minutes. Move the fat to the back of the range, after 
the chops are immersed in it, to complete the cooking. Serve 
as above. 'Pass tomato-sauce with the chops. "Frenched" 
chops are usually preferred for this dish. 

PAN-BROILED MUTTON CHOPS 

Prepare the chops as usual, but trim off the fat rather more 
closely. Put the chops in an iron frying-pan, heated very 
hot. Turn as soon as^the under side is seared over and sear 
the other side; turn often and cook from six to ten minutes. 



MUTTON CHOPS A LA MARECHALE 143 

When all are cooked, arrange against the side of the pan and 
brown the fat on the edge. Spread with butter, and sprinkle 
with salt, and pepper. Tomato-sauce is usually acceptable 
with these chops. 

MUTTON CHOPS IN CASSEROLE 

For this dish six or eight chops from the fore-quarter may 
be used. Saut^ in butter or dripping until lightly browned, 
first on one side and then on the other. Put into the cas- 
serole on a bed of vegetables — an onion, one small carrot, 
and a turnip, cut into small pieces and saut6d to a golden 
brown ; add broth or water just to touch the chops and also a 
little salt; cover tightly and let cook until tender. About 
two hours will suffice. A few mushrooms are an addition to 
the dish. Dried mushrooms, soaked over night in cold water, 
may be used. Serve from the dish. Sauce thickened with 
roux may be used instead of the stock or water; or cornstarch 
diluted with water, may be added just before serving. The 
chops and vegetables may be cooked without browning, and 
cucumbers, cut in balls or olive shape, may be added instead 
of the mushrooms. In this case, when the cucumbers are 
tender, thicken the sauce and add a generous half-cup of 
cream. 

MUTTON CHOPS A LA MARECHALE 

Season French chops with salt and pepper and sautd in 
clarified butter; let cool under a weight, then lightly spread 
both sides of the chops with a thin layer of crushed-ahd- 
chopped garlic, chopped shallot, mushrooms and parsley 
sauted in butter and simmered until the moisture has evap- 
orated, then added to a brown-sauce. The proportions for 
the fine herbs mixture are : one clove of garlic, four ounces of 
shallot, one pound of mushrooms and an ounce of parsley, to 
one cup of sauce. When cool, cover with a thin layer of chicken 
quenelle forcemeat (see page 257), then egg-and-bread- 
crumb, using equal parts of beaten yolk of egg and melted 
butter instead of whole eggs. Dispose on a baking-tin, pour 
over a little clarified butter, and reheat in the oven. Cover 



144 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the bones with frills and dress crown-shape on a rice croustade. 
Fill the centre with broiled mushroora caps (two inches across). 
Serve the rest of the fine herb sauce, diluted with brown 
stock, as a sauce, addiiig seasoning and flavouring as needed. 

LAMB CHOPS A LA CATALANS 

12 lamb chops. 1-2 a cup of cooked lean 

1-2 a cup of thick Bechamel sauce. ham chopped. 
Paprika. Butter 

1-2 a cup of cooked mushrooms Tomato sauce, 
chopped. Red pepper, shredded and cooked 

Trim the chops rather close, paring the bones French fashion. 
Broil on one side only, having that side the same on all the 
chops. Saut^ the mushrooms and cook in a' little broth; 
use this broth with white stock in making the Bechamel 
sauce; use also twice the flour usually given for a pint of 
sauce. Season highly with paprika; add the mushrooms 
and ham and let become cold. Cover the cooked sides with a 
layer of the preparation, having it dome shaped.. Arrange 
these in a buttered baking-pan, pour melted butter over the 
tops and finish cooking in a hot oven. The sauce needs be 
thick to avoid spreading too much. Cover the ends of the 
bones with frills and dress in two rows, one chop overlapping 
another, on a serving-dish, covered with a dish paper. Serve 
with tomato-sauce apart, to which half a red pepper, cooked 
9,nd shredded, is added. 

LAMB CHOPS A LA BUSSY 

Use mushrooms, sweetbread, and chicken, or duck; liver 
cut in quarter-inch cubes in AUemande sauce. Cover or 
not with chicken forcemeat and proceed as in the recipe 
above. Serve with cream, or Bechamel sauce. These dishes 
are often cbnvenient, as they furnish a more substantial ser- 
vice than a plain lamb chop, and may be prepared, ready for 
the final cooking, sometime in advance. 

LAMB OR VEAL KIDNEY STEW 

Split a pair of fresh kidneys in halves. Take out the white 
fat and the sinew from the centre. Cover with cold water 



VEAL 



145 



and let heat over a moderate fire. Just before the boiling 
point is reached, drain from the water and cut into small 
pieces. Cover again with cold water and heat again, being 
careful that the water does not boil, or the kidneys will harden. 
Brown two tablespoonfuls of butter in the frying-pan, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and brown, then stir in gradually 
one cup of stock, or water. Stir and cook several minutes, 
then add salt, pepper, kitchen bouquet, and one tablespoonful 
of mushroom catsup, and the slices of kidney. Stir until 
the slices are thoroughly heated, then remove from the fire. 
Add four tablespoonfuls of sherry, and serve with a table- 
spoonful of fine-chopped parsley, sprinkled over the top. If 
the water about the kidney boils, long cooking will be needed, 
to render them tender. 



VEAL 

" If you could be drawn to affect beef, venison, or fowl, it would be 
far better. " — Beaumont and Fletcher. 



AVERAGE CHEMICAL 



composition of 
(atwater) 

Protein 
Refuse. Water. N X 6.25. 
Per Per Per 

Cent. Cent. Cent. 

Breast 21.3 52.0 15.4 

Leg 14-2 60.1 15.5 

Loin 16.5 57.6 16.6 

Shank, hind 62.7 27.8 7.7 

Liver 73.0 19.0 



VEAL AS PURCilASED 



Pat. 

Per 

Cent. 

II, o 
7-9 
9- 

II. 7 

5-3 



Ash. 

Per 

Cent. 

.8 



FuelVal. 
per lb. 
Calo- 
ries, 

620 
6go 
215 

SIS 



Veal and lamb, being immature, are not as nutritious as 
beef and mutton, nor are they as digestible. Like pork, veal 
needs be thoroughly cooked to be at all wholesome. The 
lean of good veal is of a pinkish color, the fat is white. Veal 
is lacking in flavor; its popularity, however, is due to this 
fact and to its delicacy of texture. Both of these facts render 
veal desirable as a foundation for "made" dishes. 

Veal is cut up in a manner similar to that in which mutton 
is cut. The hind-quarter is divided into loin and leg. From 
the leg is cut the "fillet," "fricandeau" and cutlets. The 



146 PRACTICAL COOKING AJJD SERVING 

" knuckle " of veal is that part of the leg just about the knee- 
bone; the shank is below, and cutlets or a fillet may be cut 
above. The loin is more delicate and less dry than the leg, 
but it is not as economical ; this can be seen by a glance at the 
chemical composition. It is used as a roast, or in chops. The 
breast is used for a roast, the knee and knuckle, for soups and 
stews. Veal is rich in gelatine, and a soup stock in which it 
is present usually jellies when cold. The flavour of pork 

Ways of Cooking, 
f Knuckle. Soup stock, stews 



3' 

^ \ I Cutlets and fricandeau 

iO 



9. Leg. J Cutlets or fillet_or 1 g^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^^ 



.} 



il 



o 



O 



7. Loin. Chops and roasts. 

0. Head. Soup.made dishes. 
6. Breast. Stew, gelatine. 

5. Ribs. Stew. 

3. Shoulder. Stew. 

1. Neck. Stew or stock. 



Brains Made Dishes, Chafing Dish 

Liver Broiled, Sauted, Mock Pate Foie Gras. 

Heart : Stuffed, Baked 

Tongue Boiled, Braised 

f Sauted 
Sweetbreads Parboiled { Fried. 

i,Made Dishes. 
Kidneys Boiled, Stew 

seems particularly well adapted to veal, and pork is usually 
chosen either alone, or with other flavors to make up for 
the deficiency of veal in this respect. When roasted or 
braised a fillet and a fricandeau are larded, or daubed with 
pork; sometimes a stuffing is used in the place of the pork, 
any cavity from which a bone can be taken affording a con- 
venient place for its entrance. The stuffing may be seasoned 
with sweet herbs, parsley, onion, mace, chopped mushrooms, 
and grated lempn. In England a fillet of veal is simmered 
in equal parts of milk and water, the liquid is thickened foi 



VEAL, ROASTED 147 

a sauce, and to this parboiled oysters are added. The brains 
and sweetbreads are considered choice deHcacies; both spoil 
quickly, and should be cooked without delay. Soaking in 
cold water is followed by parboiHng in hot water, salted and 
acidulated, after which they may be kept for some little time. 
The points to be remembered in the cooking of veal are: 
flavor is to be added, and, to insure digestibility, long, slow 
cooking is required. 

VEAL ROASTED 

The fillet, a slice five or six inches thick from the heaviest 
part of the leg, — ^the part . corresponding to the "round" in 
beef — ^is the most economical piece to buy for roasting, for 
cutlets, or 'made dishes. The fricandeau, or best part of the 
fillet, is sometimes served separately as a roast. Other roast- 
ing pieces are the "best end of neck," "loin," and chump, 
corresponding to ribs, sirloin, and the combined "aitch-bone" 
and rump in beef. To roast, remove bones, fill the sauce 
with bread stuffing (see previous paragraph) and with tape 
bind the meat into a compact shape. Lard the fricandeau, 
and spread thin slices of salt-pork over the other cuts ; dredge 
with salt, pepper, and flour. I'ut the meat into a hot oven, 
after fifteen minutes' cooking, lower the heat, baste frequently, 
and allow at least twenty minutes to the pound ; longer cook- 
ing will do no harm, if the heat be gentle and the joint be 
basted frequently. The fillet in particular is liable to be dry, 
unless it be freely basted. After the meat has been removed 
from the pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour to two table- 
spoonfuls of fat left in the pan, cook until frothy, then dilute, 
gradually, with one cup of water, or stock, let boil six or 
eight minutes, strain and serve as sauce. Green, French 
beans (flageolet) are particularly good to serve with roast 
veal, or mutton. The dried beanS are always in the market, 
and sell for about thirty cents a quart. A cup of beans when 
cooked are sufficient for a family of five or six. They may 
be put to soak in cold water, or cooked without previous 
hydration. When tender and the water has evaporated, toss 
over the fire with butter and paprika. Add salt when per- 
fectly cooked. 



148 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



FILLET AND FRICANDEAU, BRAISED 

As the cutting of a fricandeau, which is the best part of the 
fillet, makes it impossible to cut a fillet from this quarter, 
the price is correspondingly high. This makes it a piece of 
distinction and, whether roasted or braised, it is usually 
larded on the best or smooth side. Put in the casserole 
(use cheap earthenware not designed for table service) on a 
bed of salt-pork, carrot, onion, turnip, and celery; add a 
"fagot" (see page 23) and stock, or water to one-third the 
height of the meat, and spread more vegetables over the top ; 
cover closely and let cook very slowly about two hours, then, 
if the meat be nearly tender, remove the cover and brown 
the lardoons. Strain and thicken the gravy to serve with 
the meat. Spinach pur^e accompanies a fricandeau. When 
convenient, it is an improvement to glaze the meat with 
reduced stock. 

VEAL CUTLETS 

Speaking accurately, cutlets are what has been previously 
designated in speaking of mutton as chops; cote, from which 
cutlet is derived, means a rib, and properly a piece containing 
a rib is a cutlet. However, in cutting veal, a slice from the 
leg is quite generally termed a cutlet by marketmen and 
housekeepers. Veal cutlets, each containing a rib-bone, 
are cut so that when flattened with the wet cutlet-bat each 
will be half an inch thick. Brush over with olive oil, or 
melted butter, and broil eight minutes; if dipped in fresh 
white breadcrumbs broil nine minutes. Serve half a cup of 
tomato, or mushroom-sauce with each cutlet, or use a generous 
allowance of maitre d'hotel butter. 

VEAL CUTLETS, NO. 2, (PAPILLOTES) 

Trim the chops neatly and flatten as before. Saut6 in 
butter six minutes on each side. Remove from the frying- 
pan and add one-fourth a cup of flour; when frothy add a 
cup of broth gradually; let boil five minutes, then strain over 
three tablespoonfuls of fine herbs (see Mutton Chops k la 



VEAL POT PIE 



149 




Veal Cutlet in Papillote 



Mar^chale), and let simmer five minutes. For each cutlet 
cut a sheet of letter paper heart-shape (see diagram) large 
enough to leave of margin an inch and a half around the cutlet ; 
oil the paper, lay on it first a thin slice of bacon, add a table- 
spoonful of sauce, then a 
cutlet, another spoonful of 
sauce and above all a second 
slice of bacon. Fold the 
paper, and turn down the 
edges securely, as shown in 
the illustration. Broil the 
cutlets thus prepared over 
a slom fire about fifteen 
minutes, turning often, to 

avoid setting fire to the papers. To insure success, cut 
the papers large enough and fold them securely on the edges. 
If a double-broiler be used, let it be one having plenty of 
space between the hinges, to avoid crushing the papers. 
Serve in the papers. 

VEAL CUTLETS, NO. 3 

Cut a slice from the leg or fillet of veal, freed of bone, skin, 
and fat, into pieces for serving; fiatten them with a wet bat, 
and dredge with salt, pepper, and flour; saut^ to a golden 
brown in bacon or salt-pork fat, then remove from the pan 
and add two tablespoonfuls of flour; stir and cook until brown, 
then add a cup and a half of broth or water; let boil, then 
add the cutlets, cover and let simmer three-quarters of an 
hour, or until the cutlets are tender. If preferred, egg-and- 
breadcrumb the cutlets instead of dredging them with flour. 

VEAL POT PIE 

Wipe a piece of veal from the shouldex* and cut it into pieces 
for serving; add a half -inch strip of salt-pork pr bacon for 
each piece of veal, cover with cold water, put over the fire 
and bring quickly to the boiling point, then, after boiling five 
minutes, skim and let simmer until the meat is tender. When 
nearly tender, add salt and pepper to season, and a biscuit 



ISO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

mixture cut into rounds. Cook ten minutes without lifting 
the cover. Serve the meat in the centre of the platter, the 
dumplings at the ends and the sauce, thickened, if needed, 
with flour and water, over the whole. Parboiled potatoes 
with other vegetables may be cooked in the stew. In this 
case the dumplings should not be added until the potatoes 
are half cooked. If there be a lack of broth, a cup of tomato 
pur^e may be added. The dumplings may be steamed fifteen 
minutes over a saucepan of boiling water. This is usually 
preferable, to avoid removing them from the fire until the 
instant of serving. The beaten yolks of two eggs, diluted 
with half a cup of cream and added to the sauce, give a 
richer dish. 

DUMPLINGS 

1 pint of flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda or 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. About i cup of sweet milk. 

The dough should be as soft as can be handled; pat out 
half an inch thick and cut into small rounds. 

VEAL LOAF 

3 1-2 pounds of raw veal. 3 eggs, well beaten. 

1-4 a pound of fat salt pork. 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, milk, 

1-4 a pound of chicken or lean ham. white or tomato sauce. 
6 soda crackers. Juice of 1-2 a lemon. 

6 mushrooms. 1 teaspoonful of sweet herbs or 

I tablespoonful of salt. 1-2 a teaspoonful of mace. 

I teaspoonful of pepper. 

Pass the veal (that from the leg is best) and the pork through 
the meat-chopper together with the chicken, or ham, the 
mushrooms and the crackers The, ham should have been 
cooked, and the mushrooms saut6d in butter. Add the other 
ingredients, mix thoroughly and shape into a compact loaf. 
Slide onto a tin baking-sheet, cover with scored slices of salt- 
pork and bake on a rack in the dripping-pan about two hours, 
basting every ten minutes. Serve hot, with a sauce made 
in the pan after the loaf has been removed; or, preferably, 
serve cold, sliced thin, with a vegetable salad. 



FRIED CALF'S LIVER 151 



CHICKEN LOAF 

Prepare as veal loaf, substituting the flesh from two un- 
cooked fowl, weighing about three and one-third pounds each, 
one pound of veal and a cup of blanched almonds for the 
chicken or ham and the veal given in the recipe. 

PRESSED CHICKEN OR VEAL 

Cover a young fowl, cut in joints, with boiling water, and 
let simmer until tender together with a few slices of carrot, 
half an onion, and a stalk of celery. Remove the skin and 
bones, and return them with broth to the fire, and let simmer 
until reduced to about one cup; strain and set aside. When 
the flesh is nearly cold, cut into tiny cubes, or chop fine ; remove 
the fat from the broth, reheat, and stir the chicken into it, 
adding salt and pepper and other seasoning, if desired. Dec- 
orate a mould with "hard-boiled" eggs cut in slices; in this 
pack the hot chicken, cover with a buttered paper bearing 
a weight, and let stand until cold and set. Use a knuckle of 
veal in the same manner as the chicken. Serve, sliced thin, 
with salad. Good with potato or tomato salad. 

BROILED CALF'S LIVER AND BACON 

Cook the bacon as on page 160. Cut the liver in slices 
half an inch thick, cover with boiling water and let stand 
five minutes; wipe dry, then dip in the bacon fat, sprinkle 
lightly with pepper and broil five minutes, turning every ten 
seconds. Serve with the bacon. 

FRIED CALF'S LIVER (STEAMER PRISCILLA) 

Cut the liver in slices half an inch thick, cover with boiling 
water, and let stand five minutes; wipe dry, rub over with 
the cut side of an onion, season with pepper and salt, roll in 
flour or breadcrumbs, then in eggs and breadcrumbs. Fry 
in deep fat about five minutes. In the meantime put ten 
or twelve shces of bacon in a double-broiler over a dripping- 
pan into the oven and cook until crisp. Serve the liver and 
bacon with a garnish of parsley and lemons cut in quarters. 



152 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CALF'S LIVER LOAF 

Remove the skin from a calf's liver, and cut the flesh into 
slices; cook in boiling salted water five minutes, then drain 
and chop fine. Add one teaspoonful of onion juice, half a 
cup of fine breadcrumbs that have been soaked in cold water 
and then wrung dry in a cloth, a scant teaspoonful of salt, 
half a teaspoonful of poultry seasoning, two eggs, well beaten, 
and the juice of half a lemon, or one tablespoonful of vinegar; 
mix thoroughly. Line a brick-shaped baking-pan with thin 
slices of bacon, or salt-pork, press the mixture tightly into 
the pan, cover with pork and steam, or bake in the oven, two 
hours or more. Turn from the mould, remove the bacon, 
and serve with tomato-sauce. If it is to be served cold, leave 
in the pan until ready to slice. 

SWEETBREADS 

The price of sweetbreads varies with the season, in winter 
being about double what it is in the spring. In the country 
they are often thrown away, and when sold bring not more 
than twenty-five cents a pair. In the city the price varies 
from seventy-five cents to one dollar and a half a pair. Al- 
though we speak of sweetbreads as a pair, there is in reality 
-but one sweetbread, consisting of two parts connected by a 
short membrane. The pancreas is sometimes sold for the 
sweetbread, but the sweetbread proper is found higher up 
in the throat and breast, and is not connected with the pan- 
creas. Only a vestige of the sweetbread remains after the 
calf begins to eat grass, while the pancreas is a permanent 
gland of the animal. 

As they spoil very quickly, sweetbreads should be attended 
to as soon as'received from the market. After being soaked 
in cold water an hour or more, the water being renewed several 
times, let simmer for about twenty minutes in salted, acid- 
ulated water, then remove to cold water to harden. Remove 
all the tubes, outside skin, and fibres, but do not break the 
sweetbreads themselves. When cooled a little tie each piece 
in a bit of cheesecloth, drawing the cloth quite tightly, in some 



FRIED SWEETBREADS 153 

cases, to make the pieces of a nearly uniform surface and oval 
form, then cool under a weight. 

SWEETBREADS LARDED AND BAKED (HOTEL TOURAINE) 

2 pairs of sweetbreads. i can of peas or s: pint of cooked 
Truffles. fresh peas. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter or cream 
2 slices of onion. 3 large mushroom caps. ■ 

6 slices of carrot. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I -4 a cup of glaze (dark) . i tablespoonful of flour. 

I cup of cream. 

Lard the blanched sweetbreads with truffies, saiit6 in the 
butter with the onion and carrot, drain off the butter, add the 
glaze and cook in a moderate oven, basting often, until the 
sweetbreads are well glazed; the cooking is simply to reheat 
and glaze them. Pass the peas through a sieve, season with 
salt and pepper and reheat with the butter, or cream. If 
the peas have been canned, add a teaspoonful of sugar. When 
the pea-pulp is reheated and quite dry, shape into nests, 
using a pastry-bag and tube. Dispose the sweetbreads in the 
nests and pour about them the mushrooms, cut in Julienne 
style, sauted in the butter, dredged with the flour, and then 
simmered in the cup of cream and the liquid left in the pan 
in which the sweetbreads were glazed. 

LARDED S^A^EETBREADS BAKED 

Lard two pairs of blanched sweetbreads, alternately, with 
small salt-pork lardoons, and lardoons cut from the yellow 
rind of a lemon. Set in a dish into the oven with a cup of 
brown stock, to which bits of salt-pork and vegetables have 
been added and let cook twenty minutes basting frequently. 
Serve with a brown mushroom-sauce, or with the stock in the 
pan, thickened with roux and strained. 

FRIED SWEETBREADS 

Cut the parboiled and cooled sweetbreads in slices of uniform 
thickness, egg-and-breadcrumb and fry in deep fat. Dress 
on a hot folded serviette. Serve with Bernaise, or Tartare 



1 54 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sauce, or omit the sauce and serve with green peas. They 
may be sauted in butter instead of frying in deep fat. 

SWEETBREADS IN BROWN, CREAM, BECHAMEL, OR 
POULETTE SAUCES 

Parboiled and cooled sweetbreads cut into cubes, reheated 
in any one of the sauces mentioned above, mixed with cooked 
chicken, mushrooms, veal or oysters, also cut in cubes are 
served in patties, timbale cases, vol-au-vents, etc. They 
are also chopped coarsely and used in croquettes either alone, 
or in combination with other material. 

CALF'S HEAD, BRAINS AND TONGUE 

These, especially the brains, are considered great delicacies. 
The brains may be bought apart for about twenty cents a 
set; but the whole head, including the brains and tongue, is 
sold for the same price. In buying the head have it dressed 
(split apart and unedible portions removed) before it is sent 
home, then soak and scrub in cold water. Put over 
the fire to cook in cold water; when the water boils, 
pour it oflE and cover again with cold water, thus blanch- 
ing it. When the head becomes cold, rub over with the cut 
side of a lemon, and cover with boiling water; add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of white wine, vinegar, or lemon juice, 
a bay leaf, an onion, pierced with half a dozen cloves, a few 
slices of carrot and sprigs of parsley, cover and let simmer 
until tender. Take out the bones and use the meat in ' ' made ' ' 
dishes and the broth for a soup. The meat may be packed 
in a mould and the broth seasoned with salt strained over it. 
When cold, the jellied head may be cut in slices. The tongue 
cooked with the head may be served without other prepara-' 
tion than skinning. Soak the brains in cold water several 
hours, changing the water several times. Tie in a cheese- 
cloth and let simmer twenty minutes in highly seasoned stock. 
When cold use as sweetbreads. 



PORK 



PORK 



155 



" O father, the pig, the pig ! Do come and taste how nifce the burnt 
pig tastes. " 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF PORK AS PURCHASED (aTWATER) 

Fuel Val. 

Refuse Water Protein Fat Ash per lb. 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Calories. 

Loin 15.8 43.8 14. I 25.6 .7 1.340 

Ham 14.4 34.9 13.3 33.4 .4 1.655 

Salt Clear Fat 7.3 1.8 87.2 3.7 3.715 

Bacon, Smoked 8 16.8 9.2 61.8 4.2 2.780 

In these latter days pork has come to be looked upon with 
distrust, and is rarely, save in the form of ham, or bacon, 
seen upon the best tables. There may be good reason for 
this; but, after all, if we know that the animal from which 
the roast is taken has been housed in a clean place and fed 
upon wholesome food, who will not be tempted, occasionally, 
to taste a savory and fragrant roast of well-crisped pork? 
Who can doubt that the " burnt pig, " that had been fed upon 
mast by Loti, the swineherd, was as delectable as it was set 
forth in the Chinese manuscript transcribed for our edification 
by Charles Lamb? Why should not young pigs, allowed to 
roam at will in the woods and fatten upon sweet acorns, be 
as wholesome as turkeys that are fed upon chestnuts, or corn; 
for does not the pith of the whole matter depend upon the 
feeding? 

When we consider the high percentage of fat in pork and, 
consequently, its high fuel value, we understand why it was 
that, .in the traditional days of old, when houses were ill- 
heated and the rigors of a long, cold winter had to be con- 
tended against by rich and poor alike, there was more need 
of the historic Christmas dish, the boar's head of merrie Eng- 
land, than is apparently the case to-day. 
. The curing of salt-pork, bacon, and hams by salting and, 
in case of the two latter, by smoking, acts much as does pas- 
teurization in milk to render them more wholesome. The 
skin of well-fed pork is fine rather than coarse, is white and 
clear. The flank and the thick layer of fat over the flesh of 



iS6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the loin and ribs is cured for salt-pork and, when of good 
quality, is of a delicate pinkish opal tint. If the pigs be 
young, the sides or flanks are transformed by salting and 
smoking into bacon. The upper part of the hind legs, th^ 
hams, and the upper part of the fore legs (shoulders) are salted 
and smoked. The flesh of the loin (chine) and ribs (spare > 
ribs), denuded of fat, is cut into roasts, or chops.] Fresh pork- 
is most unwholesome unless it be thoroughly cooked. 

Contrary to the general rule for roasting meat, a roast of 
pork should not be put into a quick oven, lest the outside be 
seared over and the heat be prevented from penetrating the 
inmost centre. Twenty or twenty-five minutes to the pound 
in a slow oven is about the length of time required in cooking. 

Ham and bacon, if properly cured, rieed little cooking 
when broiled or fried. A high temperature, or long-con- 
tinued cooking — ^unless very much prolonged — ^toughens 
the fibres and impairs digestibility. The thin-sliced bacon 
of the epicure is served just as soon as heat renders it trans- 
parent. 

Apple-sauce, sweetened sparingly, is, on account of the 
fat splitting property of acids, a fitting accompaniment to all 
dishes of pork, ham, and bacon. 

TO CURE HAMS AND BACON (FOR FIFTY POUNDS) 

6 pounds of salt. i ounce of bicarbonate of soda. 

2 1-2 pounds of sugar or i ounce of saltpetre. 

I 1-2 quarts of molasses. 2 gallons or more of water. 

Cover the bottom of an oak barrel, or firkin, with a layer 
of salt; mix the rest of the salt and the sugar, or molasses, 
and with this rub thoroughly each ham or strip of bacon and 
put them skin side down in the barrel. Put any unused salt 
and sugar in the water, add the soda and saltpetre, dissolved 
in a little water, and pour this over the meat; there should 
be enough to cover well'th^ meat; place a board bearing 
a weight on top of the meat; let remain from four to eight 
weeks, according to the size of the pieces ; drain for two days, 
then smoke in a place from which the air is excluded, four 
weeks with corncobs, green hickory, or maplewood. Hang 



PORK TENDERLOIN, GERMAN STYLE 157 

the hams,, hock downwards, as the skin will retain the juices of 
the meat. 

CROWN OF PORK WITH SMALL ONIONS 

Cut pieces containing six ribs from each side of a rack of 
pork, having the two pieces of the same length and height; 
remove the backbone and make an incision between the 
ribs; trim each rib above the eye as for French lamb chops; 
turn the rib-bones outside and the eyes of the chops inside 
and sew the two pieces together. Mix a cup of sausage-meat 
with a cup of stale breadcrumbs, softened in cold water and 
wrung dry; add an egg, beaten slightly, and additional sea- 
sonings, if needed. Put the crown in the baking-pan, and the 
sausage mixture in the open space inside the crown, cover the 
bones with buttered paper, dredge with salt, pepper, and 
flour and bake in a slow oven between two and three hours, 
basting every ten minutes with the dripping to which a little 
hot water is added. Saut6 to a delicate brown enough small 
peeled onions to fill the crown; add stock and let cook until 
tender, glazing the onions with the stock as it cooks away. 
Remove the crown carefully to a serving-dish, so as to avoid 
breaking the sausage filling, place the onions in the centre 
above the filling and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. 
Serve with this apple-sauce and tomatoes in some form. 

PORK CHOPS 

Have the chops cut about half an inch thick ; trim off super- 
fluous fat, saute slowly until well browned and thoroughly 
cooked, or set on the rack in the baking-pan into the oven 
and let cook until well browned. The oven needs to be hotter, 
on account of the small size, than for a large roast. It will 
take about twenty-five minutes to cook the chops in either 
way. Serve with apple-sauce. 

PORK TENDERLOIN, GERMAN STYLE 

Saut^ the tenderloin, cut in suitable pieces for serving, in 
melted butter until slightly browned on both sides, then cover 
and let simmer fifteen minutes, turning once. Add sweet 



iS8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cream to cover the meat in part and cook fifteen minutes 
longer, or until the pieces are easily pierced with a fork. 
Remove to a serving-dish, add enough flour, stirred with 
water, or broth, to thicken the liquid, let simmer ten minutes, 
then add a little lemon juice and pour over the meat. Or, 
omit the lemon from the sauce and serve in a bowl; place a 
slice of lemon on each piece of pork. Season the meat with 
salt after the cream is scalded. 

PORK CROQUETTES, GERMAN STYLE 

I small onion. Ground pepper and nutmeg. 

I pound of tender uncooked pork. 2 ounces of grated bread. 
1 2 boned anchovies. 3 eggs. 

T tablespoonful of chopped capers 3 tablespoonfuls of thick sour 

cream. 

Cook the onion until tender in butter, then chop with the 
pork until fine; freshen the anchovies, remove the bones and 
chop fine; add to the pork with the capers and other ingred- 
ients, and mix thoroughly. With the hands form into small 
^atlet shapes rather less than half an inch thick, saut^ in hot 
butter, first on one side and then on the other, to a golden 
brown. Make a hole in the small ends of the cutlets and 
insert a sprig of parsley. Serve with fine vegetables, aspar- 
agus, peas, or string-beans buttered. 

SAUSAGE WITH APPLE SAUCE 

Cover the sausage pricked in every part with a fork with 
boiling water, let simmer fifteen minutes, then drain and 
brown in the oven, or on the top of the stove. Make a syrup 
of a cup, each, of sugar and water and in this cook very care- 
fully four or five tart apples, cored, pared and sliced in rings. 
Serve these, drained from the syrup, around the sausage 
arranged in the centre of the dish. 

SAUSAGE BAKED WITH BEANS 

Let one quart of pea-beans soak over night in soft water; 
wash, drain and cook until very tender, but not broken, in 
boiling water, changing the -water ait least twice. Put the 




SAUSAGE WITH APPLE SAUCE. (See page 158.) 




COLD HAM, BAKED WITH CIDER, ON BED OF LETTUCE RIBBONS. 
(See page 160.) 




COLD BOILED HAM. SLICED THIN. 
Garnish; Nasturtium '.eaves and blossoms. 



SALT PORK, COUNTRY STYLE 159 

beans into a baking-dish with Hnks of sausage, here and there, 
using in all about a pound of sausage. Dissolve two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt in a quart of boiling water and pour over 
the beans, adding more, if needed, to cover. Bake five or 
six hours. Serve hot with tomato catsup. Press the "left 
over" closely- into an oval-shaped dish, taking no care to 
retain the shape of the beans. If needed, a plate bearing a 
weight may be placed on the topt When cold, turn from 
the dish and cut into slices. Garnish with celery leaves, or 
parsley., Serve with a beet or tomato salad. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS WITH PORK 

I pint of pea beans. i teaspoonful of mustard 

1 teaspoonful of soda. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1-4 to 1-2 a pound of salt pork, i tablespoonful of molasses or sugar. 

Soak the beans in cold water (soft water preferred) over 
night. In the morning wash and rinse thoroughly, then par- 
boil until they are soft enough to pierce with a pin and no 
longer. Change the water while parboiling, always using 
boiling water for cooking and rinsing. During the last boiling 
add soda. Rinse thoroughly in hot water. Put one-half 
of the beans into the bean-pot. Pour scalding hot water over 
the salt-pork and score the rind in half -inch st'rips. Put into 
the bean-pot above the beans aiid pour in the remainder of 
the beans. Mix the mustard, salt, and molasses, or sugar, 
with hot water and pour over the beans; add boiling water 
to cover. Bake about eight hours in a moderate oven. Keep 
the beans covered with water and, also, the cover on the pot, 
until the last hour. The pork may be drawn to the surface 
and browned during the last hour. 

SALT PORK, COUNTRY STYLE 

Select clear, fat pork and cut in slices about one-third an 
inch in thickness; cover these with boiling water; then dip 
the slices, one at a time, in flour, first on one side and then 
on the other and put at once into a hot frying-pan ; let cook 
slowly until well browned, then turn and brown on the other 
side and drain on soft paper. When well cooked but little 



i6o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

remains save a dry crispy shell. Drain off part of the fat 
and into the rest put some apples, cored and sliced without 
paring; stir with the fat, then cover and let cook slowly until 
tender, turning carefully now and then. Serve around the 
pork, or serve the pork upon the apple. 

BACON AS A BREAKFAST RELISH 

Cut the bacon in slices as thin as possible ; this can be easily 
done, if the rind be first removed; or slice down to the rind, 
then run the knife under the slice close to the rind. Lay the 
slices in a hot frying-pan; as soon as they begin to look clear, 
turn, and in a few seconds remove to a soft paper to drain. 
Or, in a double-broiler over a dripping-pan set into a hot oven 
and let cook until the slices look clear. 

BOILED HAM 

Let the ham soak several hours, or over night, after scraping 
and scrubbing thoroughly with a brush. To cook, cover 
with cold water, bring slowly to the boiling point, let boil a 
few.inoments, then skim and let simmer five hours or more. 
When tender set aside to partially cool in the liquid, then 
remove, draw off the skin, brush over with beaten yolk of 
egg diluted with milk, sprinkle with sugar and cracker-Crumbs 
mixed together, and set in the oven to brown. Cover the 
bone with a paper frill. Garnish the dish with parsley. Also 
serve cold, thinly sliced. Nasturtium leaves and blossoms 
make a most appropriate garnish for a platter of thin-sliced 
cold-boiled ham. 

HAM BAKED WITH CIDER 

Soak and scrub the ham ; when ready to cook make a dough 
or thick paste of flour and water and spread over the ham, 
encasing it completely; set on the rack in a baking-pan into 
a hot oven to cook the paste, then lower the temperature and 
let cook about five hours. About an hour before cooking, is 
done, make a hole in the paste and pour in a cup of hot cider; 
repeat this twice if needed, or use for liquid what drips into 
the pan. When tender, remove crust and skin from three- 



HAM CROUTONS i6i 

fourths of the ham, leaving one-fourth of the skin about the 
shank-bone. 

Brush the skinned portion with beaten yolk of egg and 
sprinkle -with cracker-crumbs mixed with sugar and return 
to the oven to brown. Serve hot or cold. To serve cold, dip 
olives, cut in halves with stone removed, into a little dissolved 
gelatine and press them about the ham close to the skin ; con- 
ceal the bone with a paper frill and surround with a wreath of 
lettuce cut in narrow ribbons. Capers, chilies, and lard 
pipings also are used to decorate a cold-boiled ham, served 
whole. 

HAM COOKED IN A CASSEROLE 

Scrub and soak the ham. Put in a large earthen casserole 
(these can be bought for a dollar) with a kitchen bouquet, 
a cup of soup vegetables, a quart of water, and a pint of cider; 
cover closely, pasting a strip of cotton cloth around the joint 
where the dish and cover meet ; let, cook in the oven, or on 
top of the range, without boiling, about six hours. Finish 
as a boiled, or baked ham. Strain the liquid and use in mak- 
ing a sauce to serve with the ham when hot. 

BROILED HAM 

Cut "the ham very thin. If mild cured, broil over bright 
coals three or four minutes ; if very salt, let stand in boiling 
water five or ten minutes, then dry and broil. ■ For fried 
ham proceed in the same way, using the hot frying-pan in 
place of the broiler. 

HAM CROUTONS 

Dip long kite-shaped pieces of bread in melted butter; 
brown in the oven, then let cool. Arrange these in a circle on 
a serving-dish, the narrow ends meeting in the centre. Pound 
a cup of lean, cooked ham, chopped fine, half a cup of butter, 
and four tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce to a paste; pass 
through a pur^e sieve, then pipe — using a bag with star tube 
attached — ^upon the pieces of bread. Garnish the piping 
with chopped white of egg. Place stoned olives or pimolas 



1 62 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and sprig of parsley between the croutons. Use hard-boiled 
white of egg, or, better still, two or three uncooked whites 
and a tablespoonful of milk or cream to each white, beaten 
togethei-; turn into a buttered dish and poach gently until 
firm in water "just off the boil. " Serve as a luncheon dish, 
or as a hors d'esuvre. 

JELLIED PICKLED PIGS' FEET (MRS. T. B. WHEELOCK, 
ST. PAUL) 

6 cleaned pigs' feet. Piece of red pepper pod. 

A bay leaf. Salt. 

6 cloves. A sprig of parsley. ' 

I large onion sliced. White wine vinegar. 

Cook the feet in boiling water until nearly tender, then add 
the bay leaf, onion, cloves, pepper-pod, parsley, and salt, 
and finish cooking. Take out the feet, skim off the fat and 
strain the liquid. Remove the large bones from the feet 
and place the latter in an earthen bowl; add vinegar to the 
liquid (half liquid and half broth, if the vinegar be not too 
strong) and pour over enough to cover the feet. If there be 
much more broth than is required, reduce by slow cooking 
before the vinegar is added, to insure a jellied condition when 
cold. 




HAM CROUTONS. (See page iCi .) 




nOSTr)N BAKIiD BEAXS 
Trarnish Cui.umber picrclL-s, sliced aiv' sprea I fan fashiin. 




BOSTON BAKED BEANS READY FOR BAKING. (See page i 50.)' 



CHAPTER V 
Poultry and Game 

"Stuff it and roast it and baste it with care; 
Daintily then the gravy prepare, 
While 'round you the savory odors shall tell, 

Whate'er is worth doing is worth doing well. " — L. F. G. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF POULTRY AND GAME AS 

PURCHASED (aTWATER) 

Fuel Val. 

Refuse Water Protein Pat Ash per lb. 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Calories. 

Chicken 34.8 48.5 14.8 ±.i .8 500 

Fowl 30.0 45.6 13. 4' 10.2 .8 680 

Tvirkey. 22.7 42.4 17.7 18.4 .8 ±.070 

Goose 22. u 33-1 10.3 33-8 .6 1.620 

The term poultry includes, all domestic birds used as food. 
Game is a term applied to wild animals taken in hunting, 
trapping, fowling, and fishing. Pigeon and squab are included 
under game. In some localities game is lower in price than 
beef or mutton. Game is rich in phosphates and, on account 
of the natural manner in which wild creatures feed and live 
and, also, from absence of fat, it is more readily digested than 
most nitrogenous foods. When hung a proper length of time, 
the flesh of most game is tender. (Wild geese and ducks 
excepted.) The custom of allowing game to hang to induce 
"high" flavor is a menace to the health of the consumer and 
should be discouraged: particularly in case of game of dark 
color, which is usually served quite rare. The best cuts of 
venison correspond to the best cuts of beef or mutton and 
are cooked in the same manner. Springy chickens hatched 
in incubators may be had for broiling at almost any season of 
the year, but from January to July the price is 400 high to 

163 



i64 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

if 

admit of purchase save on rare occasions. From July 
to September the price is such that they may be con- 
sidered among the possibilities for a Sunday dinner, or a 
"little dinner" when guests are in attendance. Young tur- 
keys in August and September are delicacies purchasable 
by the few. All fowl are in their prime from November to 
March. When admissible all birds should be dry-picked and 
"drawn" as soon as killed. This last precaution insures a 
wholesome and well-flavoured viand. Pin feathers indicate 
a young fowl; hairs an older one. If the end of the breast- 
bone be , cartilaginous, bending easily, the fowl is not more 
than a year old ; after that age the cartilage hardens into bone, 
'i^he legs and feet of a young fowl are soft and smooth to the 
t uch; upon the legs of older fowl the scales are sharp and 
pronounced, and the spurs are strong and large. 

HOW TO CLEAN AND DRAW FOWL 

Many poulterers singe and draw fowl ; they also remove the 
tendons from the drumsticks, whereby that joint is very 
much improved. The dealer has all the conveniences for 
this work, and, if he attend to these matters, the time and 
strength of the housekeeper are saved. At the same time 
he will need looking after ; the lungs and bean-shaped kidneys 
lie in small cavities, and only the careful, painstaking market- 
man takes trouble to remove them. 

If this work be done at home, the first thing, the fowl having 
been picked, is to remove pin-feathers and all feather stumps 
remaining in the skin; a strawberry-huUer is the best thing 
yet devised for this purpose. Singeing is next in order. One, 
or two tablespoonfuls of alcohol ignited on a tin dish affords 
the best means for doing this ; lighted paper may also be used. 
Take the bird by the head and feet and turn it constantly, that 
the fiame may touch every part. To singe small birds run 
four or five at a time a little distance apart on a long skewer, 
then taking the skewer by the ends pass them over the flame, 
turning the skewer meanwhile. 

Cut off the head, — ^the heads of canvasback and othep choice 
varieties of wild duck and those of small birds are often left 



HOW TO CLEAN AND DRAW FOWL 165 

on the body — ^and after loosening the crop by passing the 
finger around the same, draw out the gullet with crop attached 
and the windpipe ; if the crop be not very full — as it should not 
be — ^this may be done without making a slit in the skin of the 
neck. When necessary to cut the skin it should be done at the 
back. Cut off the neckbone even with the top of the breast, 
but do not cut off the skin. When the fowl is trussed, the 
skin may be brought down under the tips of the wings and 
fastened either with a skewer, or the thread that is used in 
trussing. 

Cut carefully just through the skin of the leg at the joint, 
or make a cut lengthwise through the skin below the joint; 
at either place the tendons running up into the drumstick 
will be exposed, and with a trussing-needle or skewer they 
may be drawn out one after another. At the market the 
poulterer, after slitting the skin to lay the tendons bare, hangs 
the fowl, first by the tendons in one leg and then by those in 
the other, upon a meat-hook and with a single pull the 
tendons are drawn. The Little Giant tendon puller has been 
devised lately; by its use all the tendons in one leg of a fowl 
may be drawn at once. When one sees how easily these are 
removed, it seems strange that this really marked improve- 
ment in the dressing of turkeys is so universally omitted. 
Cut a small opening just through the skin under the rump, 
near the vent, insert at first one and afterwards two fingers 
and pass them around close to the body, between the body 
and internal organs, at first close to the breast-bone, then 
reach in beyond the liver and heart and loosen on either side 
down close to the back. After all the internal organs are 
loosened, take hold of the gizzard, which lies at the base of 
the breast-bone, and draw this out gently and all that has 
been loosened will follow. In drawing a fowl avoid breaking 
the gall-bladder attached to the liver, the liquid from which 
will cause a bitter taste in whatever it comes in contact with. 
The lungs, lying in cavities under the breast, and the kidneys 
in cavities in the backbone, need to be taken out 
separately. 

Wipe out, or rinse if needed, and dry thoroughly. All 



1 66 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

birds tb be served whole are cleaned and drawn after this 
manner. 

DRESSING FOWL FOR BROILING 

When birds are to be broiled, they are cleaned and the ten- 
dons are drawn in the same manner, but they are drawn in a 
different way. Lay the bird upon the meat-board breast 
down, and with a Sharp strong knife cut down through the 
flesh on each side of the backbone, from the neck to the rump, 
thus cutting out the rump, the backbone, and the neck; lift 
up the backbone slightly and with the fingers loosen the 
internal organs from the back, first on one side and then on 
the other, then loosen them from the breast; after this has 
been done, the neck, backbone, and rump, with all the internal 
organs attached, may be separated in one mass from the 
rest of the bird; now carefully scrape and push the flesh from 
the breast-bone and remove that; remove the rib-bones; 
cut off the legs at the second joint; and cut through the sinews 
at other joints. 

DRESSING A FOWL FOR A FRICASSEE 

Singe, remove pin-feathers and tendons, then separate 
the fowl into pieces at the joints. Beginning with the legs, 
cut through the loose skin between the legs and the body, 
bend the leg and cut off at the joint; by moving the legs a 
little the joint between the "second joint" and drumstick 
can be ascertained; cut through the flesh at this place, then 
sever the ligaments. Cut through the skin and flesh on the 
under side where the wing joins the body, and disjoint the 
wing. Make an incision between the ends of the breast-bone 
and the tail, near the latter; carefully cut through the skin 
from the incision to the backbone on each side. Then remove 
all internal organs. Cut through the ribs, and the articu- 
lation at the top of the collar-bone, thus separating the 
breast and back ; divide the back by cutting through the middle 
crosswise. Often the wishbone and flesh attached to it are 
cut off and the rest of the breast chopped into two parts at 
the bone; these, however, are not natural divisions, but con- 



BONING TO PRESERVE SHAPE 167 

venient for serving. Wipe the pieces with a damp cloth and 
wash the inside of those that need it; do not soak in water. 
A fowl for broiling or for fricassee needs to be fresher than for 
roasting. If a fowl have an odor about it that indicates 
long keeping, wash on the inside with water in which a little 
soda has been dissolved and let stand until time of cooking 
with bits of charcoal inside. Chickens and turkeys one year 
old are best for roasting. When older steam for an hour or 
more, then finish cooking and brown in the oven. 

THE GIBLETS 

The gizzard, heart, and liver are known as the giblets. To 
clean, cut the gall-bag (small green appendage) from the 
liver to which it is attached; do not break this. Press the 
blood from the valves of the heart, remove the fat from the 
gizzard, cut through the thick part just to the inner lining 
and peel this fromi the inside, or second stomach; cut away 
the white gristle, retaining the thick fleshy portion. Wash 
all thoroughly and use with the neck and tips of the wings in 
soup, in giblet-sauce, in stuffing, or forcemeat. The liver 
is considered a delicacy; the liver of game birds, roasted, or 
broiled, is mashed, highly seasoned and spread upon the 
tdast upon which the bird is served. 

BONING POULTRY AND BIRDS 

Bones are a much more valuable acquisition to the soup 
kettle, if they be added uncooked. Poultry and birds, boned 
and filled with forcemeat, may be served either hot or cold, 
and have the advantage of being easily carved. They may , 
be boned in either of two ways, according to the shape they 
are to assume; one is used when the skin and flesh is to be 
rolled around stuffing; the other when the natural shape is 
to be restored by stuffing. In either case it is desirable to 
keep the skin as whol^ as possible. 

BONING TO PRESERVE SHAPE 

In this process the skin with the flesh attached is to be 
separated intact from the bones which support it; the fingers 



1 68 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and the back of a sharp, pointed knife are most serviceable in 
pushing and scraping the flesh from the bones, and the sharp 
edge of the knife when cutting is desirable. Singe, remove 
the pin-feathers, head, tendons, and, lastly, the feet, wipe 
carefully, but do not draw the bird, as a firm foundation upon 
which to work is desirable. 

Loosen the skin around the end of the leg-bone, and cut 
through the skin on the back from the neck to about the mid- 
dle of the back. Beginning on one side, scrape the flesh with 
the skin from the backbone to the free end of the shoulder- 
blade, push the flesh from this, and then follow the bone to the 
articulation of the wing, then down to the middle joint of the 
wing, free this and disjoint the bone at the tip-joint; free the 
flesh from the other shoulder-blade and wing in the same way, 
then push the flesh from each collar-bone down to the breast- 
bone, separating the crop from the flesh. The skin lies very 
close over the edge of the ridge of the breast-bone, and great 
care must be exercised to keep it whole ; use the flngers rather 
than the knife. Now separate the flesh from the ribs, taking 
care not to penetrate the lining into the inside ; push the flesh 
from the second joint, then from the leg, pulling the flesh 
down over the ends of the legs, where the skin was loosened 
at first, just as one often turns a glove wrong side out, when 
it does not come off easily; free the bones on the other side in 
the same way, then push the skin from the backbone until 
the rump is reached; cut through the bone, leaving a part of 
it in the rump. Now, when the skin on the under part is 
separated from the lining membrane, the edible portion of 
the bird (saving the giblets) is in one piece and the bony struc- 
ture with the internal organs in another. 

BONING FOR A GALANTINE 

Prepare the fowl as before, but cut the skin down the whole 
length of the backbone, then work the flesh from the bones 
on either side just as before, except that the skin upon the 
wings and legs need not be so carefully freed from the bones, 
as it is pulled inside to give a rectangular shaped piece. 




TRUSSED TURKEY, FEET RETAINED TO SHOW TENDONS 
DRAWN FROM FIRST JOINT. (See pa«e 165.) 




CHICKEN DRESSED FOR BROILING (See page 166.) 




BACK OF CHICKEN TRUSSED FOR ROASTING 
(Sec pa'/e ifjt,) 



TRUSSING POULTRY AND BIRDS 169 



STUFFING POULTRY AND SMALL BIRDS 

Poultry and birds that are to be baked or roasted are usually 
stuffed, as it gives them a plumper appearance, though occa- 
sionally some one suggests that the stuffing absorbs much of 
the flavor of the bird so dressed and recommends the dis- 
continuance of this practice. For a change omit the stuffing, 
but thrust an onion, or a piece of bread into the cavity to 
produce moisture. If the birds are small, so that they do not 
require long cooking, two, or three mushroom-caps, peeled 
and sauted in a little hot butter five minutes, may be pushed 
into the cavity. Thus cooked the mushrooms will flavor 
the birds and be in turn flavored by them. 

When the fowl or small birds are to be stuffed, fill the 
body with materials of such kind as is desired; put in a 
little at the slit in the skin of the neck to fill out the place 
left by the removal of the crop, and fold the skin down over 
the back; put in the rest of the stuffing at the cut made in 
drawing the fowl ; push the cushion of the tail, after removing 
the oil-bag, into the same opening and sew securely. 

TRUSSING POULTRY AND BIRDS FOR ROASTING 

Steel skewers are quite generally used for trussing, but 
in most cases it is quite as easy and preferable to use the 
trussing-needle, which is similar to a long, large, packing- 
needle, except that it has a three-sided point. Turn the 
wings in, so that the three joints of each will form triangles on 
the back of the fowl, the tips being pushed over the first joint 
and meeting on the skin of the neck where it was turned over 
the back. Thread the trussing-needle with white cotton twine ; 
press it through the middle joint of the wing, then over the 
first joint, taking up a stitch through the skin of the neck, 
folded over, and the back, then out through the second joint 
of the second wing. The needle may now be returned in the 
same way to the first side and tied there, or it may be returned 
through the thighs and body at the bend of the thigh 
joint. Now press the legs down and close to the body; 
push the needle through the leg and body to the other 



I70 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

side, return through the flesh and body, or over the backr 
bone and through the flesh of the second leg; draw tightly 
and tie. When sending the needle back to the first side, both 
at the side of the wing and the leg, make a stitch nearly three- 
eighths of an inch in length; when the bird is roasted cut 
this stitch and then draw out the threads by the knots made 
in tying. Truss small birds in the same fashion, the feet 
and legs, nicely cleaned, may be retained and in trussing are 
left standing in an upright position. 

TRUSSING POULTRY FOR BOILING OR BRAISING 

Singe, clean, remove the sinews and prepare otherwise as 
for roasting; truss the wings also as for roasting. Then with 
a sharp knife cut the skin round the leg half an inch above the 
joint. At the opening made for drawing the fowl insert the 
finger and pass between the flesh of the second joint and the 
skin so as to separate them completely. Now draw the 
loosened skin down over the ends of the bones and push the 
bones upwards into the interior, until the tops of the legs are 
in the usual position for trussing, the skin being drawn down 
smoothly. Truss as usual, letting the ends of the drumsticks 
rest just within the pelvis. Bend the rump forwards into the 
interior of the body, and draw the skin downwards so as to 
close the opening through which the bird was drawn. The 
feet, nicely cleaned, may be inserted in the place left vacant 
by the drumsticks. 

FILLETING POULTRY AND BIRDS 

A "fillet" is usually spoken of as a thin slice of flesh freed 
from skin and bone. When this term is applied to fowl, 
though it may have this signification, the whole breast of 
the fowl, removed in two pieces and separated lengthwise 
into four cutlet-shaped pieces, is usually meant. Each side 
of the breast of a fowl may be divided naturally, as it were, 
into two fillets. The two outer or upper portions are called 
the large fillets and the two smaller, mignon fillets. To 
fillet a fowl, slit the skin along the ridge of the breast-bone 
up to the neck, turn the skin back and press the knife-blade 



ROASTING POULTRY AND BIRDS 171 

along this ridge close to the "wish-bone," then lift up the 
flesh from the breast, ribs, and base of the wing, keeping close 
to the bone; repeat on the other side, and the flesh will be 
removed in two oval pieces thicker at one end. 

Separate each side into large and small fillets; remove the 
outer membrane from the large fillets and the tendon running 
the entire length of each small fillet. The membrane and 
tendons shrink ,in cooking and injure the shape of the fillets. 
Before cooking the fillets are neatly trimmed and often gar- 
nished with slices of truffle, or smoked beef-tongue. Fillets 
are also cut from each breast in lengthwise slices; four or 
five can be cut from each side of the chicken. When they 
are to be thus cut, the meat needs to be removed with care, to 
avoid separating the mignon from the large fillet. 

ROASTING POULTRY AND BIRDS 

When poultry, birds, etc. have been cleaned and trussed 
ready for cooking, cover the breast with thin slices of salt 
pork, or bacon, scored lightly; fasten these in place with 
skewers or strings and set on a rack in a baking-pan, a little 
larger than the object. The rack should be smaller than the 
pan, to admit of free use of a spoon in basting. The "heat 
indicator " should point to the centre of the dial. If necessary 
to avoid burning, let the pan rest on a grate. Turn the object 
often that it may be seared over uniformly. It will take 
from fifteen to thirty minutes to sear over a turkey, and other 
objects accordingly. When this is accomplished, close dam- 
per, add a little hot water and dripping to the pan and reduce 
the temperature as soon as possible to that of ordinary baking. 
Baste every ten minutes, dredging with flour after each bast- 
ing. When the joints separate easily, the cooking is com- 
pleted. (It will take three hours to roast a ten-pound tur- 
key.) Just before this condition is reached, remove the 
pork from the breast, baste with a little butter melted in hot 
water and return to the oven for the final browning; baste 
several times, or until the desired color is attained. 



172 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BREAD STUFFING FOR CHICKENS AND TURKEYS 

2 cups of soft breadcrumbs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 

1-2 a cup of butter, melted in 1-2 a teaspoonful of powdered 

1-3 a cup of hot milk or water. sweet herbs or spiced poultry 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. seasoning. 

I beaten egg. 

Mix the ingredients together thoroughly. The bread 
should be twenty-four hours old and taken from the centre of 
the loaf. Exact quantities of seasoning are given, but this 
is a matter of individual taste. At least twice the amount of 
ingredients given in the recipe will be needed for a nine or 
ten-pound turkey. The egg may be omitted if the dressing 
is to be eaten hot; a cold dressing will slice better if the egg be 
used. Cracker-crumbs give a drier stuffing. 

OYSTER STUFFING 

To a highly seasoned bread-stuffing add an equal bulk of 
whole oysters. Or fill the fowl with oysters dipped in cracker- 
crumbs, then in melted butter and again in crumbs. As long 
cooking detracts frorri the goodness of oysters, the fowl may 
be roasted without stuffing and served with scalloped oysters. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING 

If desired 
I pint of blanched chestnuts. 1 pint of fine chopped chicken or 
1-4 a cup of butter. _ veal, or 

T teaspoonful of salt. i pint of bread crumbs moistened 

Pepper. with 1-4 a cup ot butter. 

Additional seasonings, as onion or lemon juice and chopped parsley. 

Blanch the chestnuts (see page 34), then cook until tender 
in boiling salted water, drain and pass through a ricer. Add 
the seasonings and mix with the veal ; moisten with hot cream 
or stock, if a moist dressing is preferred. 

POTATO STUFFING 

Mix together two cups of mashed potato, .one cup of soft 
breadcrumbs and from one-fourth to one-half a cup of butter; 



GIBLET SAUCE 173 

season to taste with salt, pepper, sage, summer-savory, or 
poultry-seasoning as wished : . add a beaten egg for a dressing 
to slice smoothly. 

TURKISH STUFFING 

I cup of rice. 2 ounces of almonds. 

' I dozen French chestnuts. 1-4 a teaspoonful, each, of salt, 

1-4 a pound of well-washed currants paprika and ground cin- 
1-2 a cup of butter. namon. 

Wash the rice and cook until half-done in boiling salted 
water; drain and add the other ingredients, the chestnuts 
cooked and cut in small pieces, the almonds blanched and 
chopped. Use as any stuffing. 

BREAD STUFFING (GREEN) 

e. ounces of soft bread. 1-4 a teaspoonful of spiced pepper. 

■ I lemon rind, grated. 1-3 a cup of melted butter or 

I tablespoonful of green thyme, 1-4 a pound of beef suet, chopped. 

chopped. I egg. 

I tablespoonful of marjoram, 2 tablespoonfuls of parsley, 

chopped. chopped. 

Mix as usual, use the suet only in a dressing to be served 
hot. If green herbs are not at hand, use the dried herbs for 
flavor and tint the dressing green with the pulp of cooked 
spinach pressed through a cloth. 

TURKEY STUFFING (ST. JAMES) 

Chop together the liver of the turkey and one small onion ; 
stir these in a saucepan over the fire, but do not brown, about 
ten minutes, then mix the contents into a pound of sausage- 
meat. When thoroughly mixed, add about two dozen of 
whole chestnuts. The chestnuts should be shelled, blanched, 
and cooked until tender in boiling salted water. 

GIBLET SAUCE 

Pour off the fat from the pan in which the fowl was cooked; 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour to the pan and let brown, 
stirring constantly; add slowly one cup of the water, now 



174 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cool, in which the giblets were cooked, let boil, then simmei 
about ten minutes, stirring occasionally; add more liquid, 
if the sauce becomes too thick, from the browned flour in the 
pan used in dredging the fowl; season as needed and strain 
over the giblets chopped rather coarse. 

YOUNG DOMESTIC GOOSE, ROASTED 

The goose should be considerably less than a year old, a 
"green" goose, four months old,. is considered the choicest. 
Such a goose is usually roasted without stuffing. If it be 
bought in the open market, it will probably need to be thor- 
oughly scrubbed on the outside ; many reliable authorities advo- 
cate the use of soap to facilitate the cleansing process. Rinse 
outside and in. Rub the inside with an onion cut in halves, 
then season with powdered sage, salt, and pepper. (The 
onion and sage may be omitted.) Put the goose, after truss- 
ing neatly, on the rack in the pan and cook about an hour; 
then pour ofif the fat from the pan and dredge the goose with 
flour; season, also, with salt and pepper and lay slices of salt- 
pork over the breast. When the flour is browned, baste often 
with hot water, dredging with flour after each baisting. If 
the goose be not too fat, the dripping in the pan may be used 
for basting; but usually boiling salted water is better. Cook 
until the joints separate easily, from one hour and a half to 
three hours. Serve with a carefully prepared dish of apple- 
sauce. The apples should be stewed very quickly to keep 
them white, and but little sugar should be added. 

A goose about one year old should be steamed, or braised 
until nearly tender and then dredged with flour and browned 
in the oven. 

POTATO AND WALNUT STUFFING FOR ROAST GOOSE 

2 cups of hot mashed potato. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I teaspoonful of onion juice or 4 taMespoonfuls of thick cream. 

grated onion. i tafalespoonful of butter. 

1-2 a cup of sUced walnut meats. Yolks of two eggs. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. i teaspoonful of sweet herbs if de 

sired. 



STUFFING FOR GEESE, DUCKS AND PORK 175 

PRUNE STUFFING FOR ROAST GOOSE 

1-4 a pound of prunes. i dozen large chestnuts. 

I cup of rice. 1-2 a cup of melted butter. 

Salt, paprika and cinnamon. 

Soak the prunes overnight in cold water; drain, cover with 
water and cook until nearly tender. Blanch one cup of rice 
(see page 30) ; add the prune juice and water to make about 
three cups in all, also salt as needed, and in this cook the rice 
until nearly tender and the liquid is absorbed; then add the 
prunes, stoned and cut in quarters, the chestnuts, blanched 
and cut in pieces, the butter with salt, paprika and cinnamon 
as desired. Mix thoroughly and handle as any stuffing. 
This may be used for turkeys. 

DOMESTIC DUCKS, ROASTED 

Domestic geese and ducks' are trussed very much as, tur- 
keys and roasted with or without stuffing; a well-cleaned 
head of celery may be thrust inside to create moisture and 
give flavor, though this is more practised with wild ducks. 
Roast in a hotter oven, after the outside is seared, than for 
fowl. Cook from half to a whole hour, or until the joints 
separate easily. Baste every ten minutes. Save upon the 
breast there is but little flesh on ducks. 

STUFFING FOR ROAST DUCKS 

Chop the liver fine, and saut^ in one tablespoonful of hot 
butter, with a tablespoonful of chopped onion; mix with four 
ounces of bread (one-fourth a loaf), one-fourth a cup of 
butter, melted in one-fourth a cup of hot water; add one table- 
spoonful of parsley, chopped fine, and the beaten yolk of an 

egg- 

STUFFING FOR DUCKS, GEESE AND PORK 

Parboil three small, mild-flavoured onions in two waters. 
Then boil until tender. In the meantime, scald eight or ten 
sage leaves in hot water, allowing them to stand five minutes. 
Dry thoroughly, and chop with the onions until the mixture 
is very fine ; add one cup and a quarter of fine breadcrumbs 



176 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

(five ounces), one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of paprika (oi 
spiced pepper) and salt. When well mixed, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and bind together with an egg, well beaten. 

BONED TURKEY, OR FOWL ROASTED 

If the age of the turkey or fowl be doubtful, the meat of 
the drumsticks may be passed through a meat-chopper with 
the pork and veal given in the recipe for sausage forcemeat. 
Wipe the boned fowl with a damp cloth both inside and out- 
ride and turn, the legs and wings skin side out, put in place 
any bits of meat loosened in boning; fill the legs and wings 
with forcemeat, then sew up the slit in the skin at the back 
and fill the body full, as the forcemeat will shrink in cooking; 
truss or skewer the legs and wings in place, giving the object 
a natural shape. Lard the breast and legs, if desired, or 
fasten strips of pork over them, then roast as any fowl, basting 
often ; two and on^-half to four hours will be required, as the 
pork as well as the fowl needs thorough cooking. The lieat- 
indicator should never point beyond the centre of dial after 
the initial searing over is accomplished. Sferve with giblet- 
sauce. 

SAUSAGE FORCEMEAT FOR STUFFING BONED FOWL 

Pass two pounds of fresh' pork through a meat-chopper, sea- 
son with a teaspoonful and a half of salt, half a teaspoonful of 
black pepper and a teaspoonful of crushed and sifted sage; 
add one cup of fresh-made breadcrumbs, the liver of the tur- 
key, chopped fine, and stock to moisten; mix and use. This 
may be used with or without an equal quantity of veal, or the 
meat of a chicken seasoned accordingly. 

GALANTINE OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY, BRAISED 

Spread out the turkey or fowl, boned according to direc- 
tions for a galantine, skin side down, push the legs and wings 
inside and trim where needed to secure a rectangular shape. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper, onion juice, aind fine-chopped 
parsley. Dispose lengthwise upon this cubical strips of cold, 
cooked tongue and large lardoons of cold, cooked salt-pork. 




WILD DUCK TRUSSED FOR ROASTING. (See page 183.) 



.J 


^J^^ia 




^%^% 


^^w 


irV* , , {,;■ :,| 


j^d|^'*5Sj 






fea^^^Sl 





CHICKEN SAUTE AND CAULIFLOWER. (See page 179.) 




GALANTINE OF TURKEY, SLICED. 
Garnish of barberries and leaves. (See pa^e 176.) 



GALANTINE OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY 177 

Fill the space between with raw chicken, or veal, scraped from 
the fibres, pounded in a mortar and seasoned with salt, pepper, 
chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley, and thyme moistened 
with stock, or milk; then, commencing at one end, roll up 
very tightly like a jelly-roll and sew through the skin securely. 
To be served moulded in jelly, rub the outside with the cut 
side of a lemon to keep it white. After the roll has been tied 
or sewed in shape, wrap in a piece of cheesecloth, tie at the 
ends, also at one or two other places. Put the bones and 
trimmings of the fowl, a knuckle of veal, and half a cup of fine- 
cut vegetables in a large casserole- or stewpan, cover with 
cold water, and when the boiling point is reached, put the 
galantine on top of the bones and after boiling a few moments 
let simmer four to six hours. Let partly cool in the kettle, 
then unroll the cloth, which will be loose and wrinkled, and 
make it firm and smooth; let the galantine cool under a weight. 
Remove the cloth and wipe off the fat with a cloth wrung 
out of hot water. It may now be finished in one of several 
ways: moulded in aspic-jelly; glazed; covered with chaudfroid 
sauce and decorated; or brushed over with beaten yolkof egg, 
sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs and browned in the oven 
(see illustration, page 176). To glaze, set the dish containing 
the glaze (see page 234) in a vessel of hot water, and when 
melted apply the glaze with a brush. If it is to be covered 
with chaudfroid sauce (see page 231) have the galantine 
thoroughly chilled, then fill any hollow places with chaudfroid 
sauce, and when firm pour sauce over the whole ; when nearly 
firm again, decorate with truffles, cooked white of egg, or 
sifted yolk of egg. When these are "set," brush over with 
hquid aspic jelly. Garnish the dish with blocks and triangles 
of aspic jelly, the blocks hollowed out a little to hold stuffed 
olives or pim-olas. A galantine may be moulded in aspic jelly 
(see pages 273 and 275). Use the stock in which the galantine 
was cooked for the aspic jelly. The galantine in the illus- 
tration (see page 176) when cold was brushed over with 
beaten yolk of egg, sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs and 
browned in the. oven. An unboned fowl, or turkey, trussed 
as for roasting, but without stuffing, may be braised in the 



178 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

same manner as the galantine. A galantine may be made 
of a boned breast of veal, or lamb, or of a boned fish. Haddock 
with halibut forcemeat is particularly good with a green 
salad. Salmon may be introduced for color. 

BROILED CHICKEN WITH SWEET POTATOES 
Clean and draw a young chicken following the directions 
given on page i66, wipe carefully, brush over the inner side 
with oil or melted butter, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon, 
add sliced onions and bits of parsley, let stand an hour or 
more, then broil in a well-oiled broiler very slowly twenty 
minutes, or until the thickest part of the flesh seems cooked. 
Turn the chicken frequently; the skin browns very quickly 
and the cooking is principally done on the fi.esh side; baste 
frequently with the marinade. Remove to a hot platter, 
spread with two tablespoonfuls of creamed butter, to which 
a dash of paprika and a teaspponful of fine-chopped cress 
has been added, adding also a few grains of salt. To shorten 
the time of cooking over the coals,. and thus lessening the 
danger of burning, put the chicken in the broiler over a drip- 
ping-pan in a hot oven, basting frequently, and when nearly 
cooked brown over the coals. In the South a strip of bacon 
would be skewered upon each side of the breast. Have ready 
two sweet-potatoes, parboiled and cut in thin slices lengthwise, 
fasten the slices of each potato together at one end with a 
skewer, then spread them like a fan, brush over with butter, 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake in a hot oven, 
basting occasionally with melted butter. 

CHICKEN SAUTE NO. i 

Disjoint a full-grown chicken. Marinate the pieces, i.e., 
pour over them three or four tablespoonfuls of oil, — dust 
with salt and pepper, strew with an onion sliced in rings, and 
add the juice of a lemon. Let stand several hours, or a day. 
Half an hour before serving cut a slice of salt-pork in bits 
and try out the fat ; remove the onions from the chicken and 
wipe the pieces on a cloth; dip them in milk and flour them 
well; then saut^ in the hot fat until a golden brown on, all 
sides. Serve piled on a napkin, with bread-sauce in a boat, 



CREOLE CHICKEN 179 



CHICKEN SAUTE, WITH COLBERT SAUCE 

Truss a chicken as for roasting, using a trussing-needle and 
twine rather than skewers. Cook in boihng water, or stock, 
six or eight minutes ; drain, spHt through the back lengthwise, 
and place beneath a weight without breaking the bones. 
When cold brush over with beaten egg, dust with salt and 
pepper, and cover with breadcrumbs. In a large saut6-pan 
heat some clarified butter, or salt-pork fat, and in it sautd 
the chicken slowly to a delicate brown. Then put into the 
oven and cook about an hour longer, according to age, bast- 
ing every ten minutes. Drain and serve with Colbert sauce, 
see page 236. 

CHICKEN SAUTE WITH CAULIFLOWER 

Cut the chicken into ten pieces, and saut^ as No. i . To serve, 
place the drumsticks on a large chop-dish with small ends 
together and the other ends turned to the right and Jeft; 
beyond these place the two body pieces with the second joints 
resting upon them. Dispose the breast in an upright position 
between the drumsticks with the "merry thought" resting 
against the second joints; above the joints, the wings and 
the pinions at the ends of the two body pieces. If there are 
two chickens, repeat the arrangement on the other side. Sep- 
arate a hot boiled cauliflower into flowerets and arrange about 
the chicken. Pour a cream-sauce over the whole, or serve 
the sauce apart. A fowl a year old should be parboiled before 
saut^ing. 

CREOLE CHICKEN 

Joint a young fowl; season with salt and pepper and saut^ 
to a golden brown in hot salt-pork fat or butter, together with 
two onions sliced thin. When all are well browned, remove 
the fowl and cook one-fourth a cup of flour in the fat; then 
add one cup, each, of white stock and tomato pulp and in this 
simmer the fowl until tender, adding more stock if needed. 
Arrange the joints in a circle upon the serving-dish. To the 
sauce add a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar and other 



i8o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

seasonings as required, strain and reheat in it one-fourth a 
pound of macaroni, cooked and blanched. With this fill in 
the centre of the circle. Garnish with celery leaves or parsley. 

CASSEROLE OF CHICKEN 

Disjoint a young chicken. Heat three tablespoonfuls of 
butter in a casserole and saut^ in it the chicken and a small 
onion and half a carrot, both cut in slices. Add a bay leaf, 
the chicken, and one cup and a half of white-stock; cover 
closely and let cook three-fourths an hour, or until nearly 
tender. Add a dozen potato-balls, cut with French cutter 
and browned ; half a dozen mushroom caps, peeled and sauted 
in butter; one- third a cup of sherry wine, and a piece of bay 
leaf. Season with salt and pepper, let cook ten minutes, 
remove the fat and serve in the casserole. A strip of brown 
paper, or cotton cloth is often spread with flour-paste and 
pressed over the joining of the cover and dish to keep in the 
flavor while cooking. Pigeons, birds, partridges, etc. are 
cooked in the same manner. Small button-onions after 
being parboiled are often added. 

The chicken and vegetables may be more quickly sauted 
in a frying-pan and then removed to the casserole. Or this 
preliminary saut^ing may be omitted. Fowl, birds, pigeons, 
partridges, Belgian hare, chops, beef, or venison steak may be 
cooked in the same manner. Green peas are often used in place 
of the potato-balls, especially with pigeons or chops. Bacon 
fat is often used in the preliminary saut^ing and inch pieces 
of cooked sliced bacon is added with the meat to the cas- 
serole. Fowl and hare are cut in joints, pigeons and part- 
ridges are halved, and birds left whole. 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN 

Separate a chicken weighing about three pounds and a 
half into pieces at the joints, and wipe carefully with a damp 
cloth, washing any pieces that require it ; put into a saucepan 
with a quart of cold water, an onion with a clove pressed 
into it, a kitchen bouquet and half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Bring the water quickly to the boiling point, let boil ten 




ROAST TURKEY. 
Garnish of sausage cakes and celer^^ (See page 171.) 




STEAMED FOWL ON A MOUXD OF RICE AND MUSHROO.MS. 
(See page 182.) 




FRENCH CASSEROLE. (See page 180.) 



CHICKEN A LA BONNE-PEMME i8i 

minutes, skim off the coagulated juices that rise to the top, 
lest they settle upon the chicken and cause it to look unsightly, 
then move to a cooler part of the range and let simmer until 
the chicken is tender. Drain the chicken from the broth. 
Melt one-third a cup of butter, add one-third a cup of flour, 
and salt and pepper as needed, and when blended add the 
chicken broth gradually, first straining out the vegetables; 
let simmer fifteen minutes; beat two tablespoonfuls of butter 
to a cream, then beat in the yolks of four eggs, one at a time, 
dilute with a little of the hot sauce, return the mixture to the 
saucepan, put in the pieces of chicken and let heat over hot 
water. Arrange the pieces of chicken on the serving-dish as 
in "Chicken Saut^ with Cauliflower " and pour over the sauce. 
A dozen small mushrooms, prepared in the usual manner, 
(see page 319) and added with the chicken to the sauce, are 
an improvement to this dish. Garnish the edge of the dish 
with toast-points. 

STEWED CHICKEN WITH ASPARAGUS 

Stew a fowl, cut in joints, and season when half cookea. 
When tender keep hot while a bunch of asparagus is cooked 
in the broth. Remove the asparagus to a slice of toast. 
Thicken the liquid with flour, let simmer ten minutes, then 
stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs with a cup of cream; add 
seasoning, if needed, and a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and 
dispose the fowl about the asparagjis. Pour the sauce over 
the asparagus and fowl. Garnish with toast-points and 
asparagus tips. 

CHICKEN A LA BONNE-FEMME 

Prepare a chicken as for a fricassee ; put half a cup of butter 
into a stewpan, add a sliced onion and carrot sliced, and saute 
five minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon; put in the pieces 
of chicken dusted with salt, and pepper and saut^ five minutes ; 
add half a cup of flour and stir until blended, then add three 
cups of white-broth or water and enough tomatoes, skin 
removed and broken into pieces, to make a cup; stir until 
boiling, then simmer until tender. Add a dozen mushrooms 



i82 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

prepared as usual and a tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley, 
vfith' additional salt and pepper if needed. 

BOILED CHICKEN WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Prepare and truss the chicken for boiling; rub it over on the 
outside with a lemon cut in halves and cover securely with 
a buttered papCx to keep the meat white, cook in the usual 
manner, and serve with three cups of tomato sauce. , Use the 
chicken broth in making the sauce. 

STEAMED FOWL ON A MOUND OF RICE WITH 
MUSHROOMS 

Truss a fowl for boiling; rub with the cut side of a lemon 
and lay on slices of salt-pork or bacon and steam with an 
onion and two or three stalks of celery until tender — three 
hours or longer. Have ready a mound of boiled rice, sea- 
soned with butter and salt, and dispose the fowl upon this. 
Arrange mushrooms cooked in the usual manner against the 
rice. Serve with the chicken liquor strained, thickened with 
a roux and enriched with two egg yolks, beaten with half a cup 
of cream. 

CURRY OF CHICKEN, BELGIAN HARE, ETC. 

Cut a cleaned chicken or hare into pieces at the- joints 
and season with salt, paprika and ginger. Let stand while 
three onions and two sour apples, with a kitchen bouquet, 
are fried in half a cup of butter or dripping to a golden brown; 
then put in the joints, cover the pan and let saut^ eight or 
ten minutes. Sprinkle in half a grated cocoanut, add the 
milk from the nut (or use a cup of almond milk, see page 34) 
stirred gradually into three tablespoonfuls of flour, and one of 
curry-powder, two red pepper-pods, cut in shreds; a pint of 
stock, or hot water, and the juice of a lemon, and let simmer 
one hour. Take up the joints of meat and keep them hot; 
pass the sauce through a very fine sieve. Form a border of 
boiled rice on a serving-dish and within it dispose the m^at 
with the sauce poured over. 



CANVAS-BACK AND RED-HEAD DUCKS 183 



GAME 

CANVAS-BACK AND RED-HEAD DUCKS 

Carefully draw, pick, and singe the birds; wipe very clean, 
or wash, if preferred, using salted water. In dressing leave 
on the head — and the feet, if desired, — 'SO that those familiar 
with ducks may know by the shape, etc. of the head what 
kind of a duck is presented. When drawing the birds, cut 
a lengthwise slit over the crop, and, after the wind-pipe and 
all other appendages have been removed and the duck care- 
fully cleaned, pass the head through this opening into the 
inside of the duck, then reach in and pull it through, letting 
emerge at the opening, made in drawing, between the drum- 
sticks. Run a threaded trussing-needle through the leg, 
the neck and out through the second leg, return to the first 
side in the same way, leaving a short stitch on the opposite 
side; tie tightly to keep the head in place! When the duck 
is roasted, cut this stitch and draw out the threads by the 
knot on the other side. Cut ofE the wings at the second joint. 
If the feet be left on, dip them into scalding water and rub off 
the thin outer layer of skin. Twist the legs out of joint at the 
point where the flesh begins and double them backwards on 
the upper part of the leg. Pass the tail through the vent. 
Authorities differ as to salting wild duck before cooking and 
basting while cooking, but all agree that the oven in which 
they are placed should be very hot. The time required for 
cooking is from eighteen minutes, for very rare, to forty 
minutes, for very well-done birds. Often wild duck are trussed 
in a manner similar to fowl. A bunch of celery is thrust 
inside the body, the neck is cut off close to the breast-bone, 
and the skin is turned over and fastened down on the back 
with a stitch that holds the wings in place. The head, from 
which the eyes have been removed, is placed in the opening 
made in drawing the duck and fastened there by a thread 
passing through the legs and eye-sockets, which is returned 
in the same manner to the first leg and tied. 



1 84 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PIGEONS STEWED IN BROTH 

Clean, singe, and truss the pigeons in the same manner as 
fowls. Cut as many slices of bacon as pigeons into bits; put 
into a saucepan with a sliced onion, brown slightly, then put 
in the pigeons, a sprig, or two of parsley, and a bay leaf; half 
cover with water or light stock and let simmer until tender, 
turning once or twice and adding salt and pepper and more 
liquid if needed. When tender, cut and draw the threads 
with which the birds were trussed, and dispose the pigeons 
in nests of hot spinach arranged on slices of toast. Garnish 
with stuffed olives. Remove the fat from the broth, thicken 
it with flour smoothed in water, strain and use as a sauce. 

PIGEONS IN A CASSEROLE 

See chicken in casserole, page i8o. 

BROILED SQUABS 

Split the squabs through the back and breast, brush with 
melted butter, or lay a slice of bacon on each half and set into 
a hot oven ten minutes. If not browned enough, finish the 
cooking over clear coals. Serve on slices of toast moistened 
with dripping in the pan. 

GROUSE ROASTED (DARK MEAT) 

Truss as chicken, put a piece of butter inside each bird and 
roast in a hot oven from twenty to thirty minutes, basting 
frequently with melted butter, or fat from salt-pork. When 
about cooked, — dark-meated game is served rare — ^season 
with salt and dredge with flour. Serve on moistened toast,, 
spread with the liver cooked, mashed fine and seasoned with 
butter, salt, and pepper, and> a few drops of lemon juice. 
Serve with apple-sauce. Bread-sauce, or clear gravy may 
be served in a dish apart. If bread-sauce accompanythe roast, 
sprinkle the bird with breadcrumbs browned in butter. 

BROILED GROUSE 

Cut the grouse in halves through the breast and back, season 
and dip in oil, or melted butter and then in breadcrumbs, and 




STEWED CHICKEN AND ASPARAGUS. (See pa«e iSi.) 




PIGEONS STEWED IN BROTH. 
Garnish of stoned olives. (See page 184.) 




JAPANESE CASSEROLE. 



VENISON i8s 

broil in a double-broiler over a moderate fire, turning when 
well done on the flesh side. When done spread with maltre 
d'hotel butter. 

QUAILS ROASTED (WHITE MEAT) 

Truss the quails with the legs standing upward, in other 
respects the same as a chicken. Lard the breast and draw 
two lardoons into each leg. Cover the legs and the feet, when 
these are retained, with salt-pork and bake fifteen to twenty- 
minutes basting very often. If the breast be not larded, 
cover with a thin bit of bacon or potk. Serve on moistened 
toast with currant-jelly, or with bread-sauce. Quails are 
often broiled. 

PARTRIDGE, ROASTED, BROILED AND BOILED (WHITE 

MEAT) 

Truss and roast the same as a chicken, basting frequently. 
It will take about forty minutes to cook. Serve with bread, 
or Bechamel sauce. Prepare for broiling the same as chicken, 
brush over the inside with oil or melted butter and broil about 
twenty-five minutes on the flesh side, then brown on the skin 
side. The fire needs be moderate, and the broiling may be 
done to advantage in the oven, as partridge need basting very 
often, the meat being dry. Partridge boiled or served in a 
fricassee (white) are very good. 

VENISON 

Cuts of venison correspond to those of mutton. The 
haunch, or leg, and the saddle are roasted. In roasting the 
saddle, the flank may be removed or not. When retained, 
a few stalks of celery may be rolled in each flank; these are 
then trussed or skewered close to the backbone. Thus 
treated the saddle presents a good appearance, — but the 
flank is much more edible when it is stewed, or made into a 
ragout — and the roast requires longer cooking. To serve, 
cut the meat in slices parallel to the backbone, then turn the 
knife and separate the slices from the bones below. Cut the 
tenderloin beneath in the same way, the roast being reversed 



i86 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

upon the serving-dish for the purpose. Or the tenderloin 
may be cut and put back in place before the roast is sent to the 
table. Serve with currant jelly and an endive, or escarole 
salad. Rings of tart apple cooked in syrup make an attrac- 
tive garnish for roast venison. The haunch is usually soaked 
in a marinade several days before cooking. 

VENISON STEAK AND CUTLETS 

■ Venison steak and cutlets are broiled, or panbroiled as beef- 
steak. Being dry, they are usually served with a sauce. 
Currant-jelly and Bernaise sauces are suitable. 

QUAIL ROASTED IN" GRAPE LEAVES (PICAYUNE'S 
CREOLE COOK BOOK) 

6 fine quail. The juice of i lemon. 

2 tablespoonsfuls of butter. 6 slices of buttered toast. 

I tablespoonful of water. 1 2 grape leaves. 

Green grape jelly. 

Butter the inside of the singed, cleaned, and wiped quail 
and sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, rub lightly on the 
outside with butter, then truss and wrap the birds in fresh 
grape leaves; set on the rack in a baking-pan, put the butter 
in the pan and roast the birds from twenty to thirty minutes. 
Have ready the slices of buttered toast, add the butter, water, 
and lemon juice to the gravy in the pan, let cook three or 
four minutes, strain and set on the fire two minutes longer, 
then pour over the breasts of the birds. "The grape leaves 
impart a very peculiar and grateful flavor to the quail. " 
Serve the jelly with the quail. 

BELGIAN HARE 

Belgian hare are served roasted, braised in stews and en 
casserole. They are also particularly good, separated into 
joints and made into a curry, or cooked as chicken k la' Mary- 
land. If the hare be stuffed (bread, or green herb stuffing) 
longer roasting is required. For roasting, the head may be 
retained and the legs cut off at the first joint, or the head may 



BELGIAN HARE EN CASSEROLE 187 

be removed. Cut the sinews beneath the legs, truss, or 
skewer the hind legs towards the head, and bring the fore-legs 
backwards towards the hind ones, holding them in position 
with a skewer, or trussing-needle passed through the legs and 
body. Brush over the outside with bacon fat or dripping, 
cover the back with slices of slitted bacon (see Veal Loaf, 
page 150) tying them in place, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; roast about half an hour, basting every five minutes. 
"When done remove the skewers or strings and garnish with 
watercress alone, or with a slice or two of tomato. Serve 
with a thick brown-sauce, diluted with two tablespoonfuls of 
port wine and one tablespoonful of red-currant jelly to each 
cup of sauce. Add also the blanched liver cut in slices. The 
fillets and tops of the legs may be larded; in this case cover 
the larding with buttered paper until the last five minutes 
of cpoking, then remove to crisp the lardoons. Green goose- 
berry-sauce may be served apart in the place of the brown 
sauce. 

BELGIAN HARE EN CASSEROLE 

Separate the dressed hare into pieces at the joints; season 
with paprika and salt and saut^ in one-fourth a cup of butter 
and two or three slices of bacon, cut in small square pieces, 
to a golden brown; put the meat into the casserole with a 
cup of port wine, or claret, and put on the cover. Let stand 
in the oven about half an hour, then add a pint of stock, hot 
water, or thickened sauce, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, half 
a sweet red-pepper pod, and a kitchen bouquet; spread a 
paper or cloth covered with paste over the joining of lid and 
cover and cook in a very moderate oven about three hours. 
Remove the bouquet before serving. Two dozen blanched 
button-onions, or sauted mushrooms may be added with the 
stock. 



CHAPTER VI 
Soups and Soup Makingr 

"Muse, sing the man that did to Paris go, 
That he might taste their soups, and mushrooms know. " 

" French cookery owes its superiority over that of other nations only 
to (the excellence of French) bouillon. " — Alexandre Dumas. 

" Ab nihilo, nihil fit." 

It is written that the chefs of France in the time of Lquis, 
Le Grand MoMargwe,. devised bouillon and consomm^ because 
mastication was considered vulgar. In reality, the French 
use of broth in cookery was occasioned by necessity. For 
France at that time was lacking in oil, butter, and the animal 
fats, used with spices by other nations for the production of 
moist dishes of richness and flavor. The French learned 
many things in cookery from the Italians, but neither the 
ancients nor the Italians had ever made any application of 
the broth of meat in general cookery. 

The origin of soups in, their simpler forms dates back, to the 
childhood of the world. Tyler, in his "Early History of 
Mankind, " refers repeatedly to flesh cooked by the process of 
"stone-boiling," in the paunch or hide of the slaughtered 
beast; and he says, "For drink they have the broth of the 
meat. " According to the historians, those peoples who cooked 
their food in this way ranked a grade higher in civilization 
than they who simply broiled or roasted their meat over the 
fire, the earliest and simplest form of cookery. When we 
feel that the larger part of a day is too much time to be con- 
sumed in making soup stock, it may be comforting to consider 
for a moment the time and labor involved in "stone-boiling." 
Into the hide were put' water and the flesh to be cooked, and 

t88 



SOUPS AND SOUP MAKING 



189 



then the stones, made hot in the fire, were dropped in to- re- 
main until they became cool, when others were put in their 
places. 

Soups are classified, first, in accordance with the presence 
or absence of "stock" as a foundation. By stock, in soup- 
making, is meaijit those juices and soluble portions of meat, 
or fish, together with soluble portions of bone and vegetables, 
which have been extracted by slow cooking and stored for 
future use. This material is more or less solid after it has 
become cold, according to the gelatinous nature of the ingred- 
ients and the proportions of meat, or fish and water it con- 
tains. Bouillon and consomm^ belong to this class of soups. 

Soups, made without stock as a basis, are called soups 
maigre, from a French word meaning lean, or poor. The 
pottage for which Esau sold his birthright was probably a 
soup of this kind, being made of the red lentils of Egypt. 
Many soups of this class, however, are often made with stock 
as a part of the liquid. 

The following outline may serve as a guide to the proper 
understanding of the subject: 



' With stock. 



Soups. , 



Standard Broth. 
Bouillon. 
. Consomm^. 
Miscellaneous. 
Unclassified. 



May be made 
without stock * 

Fruit. 



Pur^e. 

Chowder. 
Unclassified. 



Plain Purde. 

Bisque. 

Cream. 



Fruit soups are quite generally used on the continent of 
Europe, more particularly in Germany. In this country they 
are used chiefly as an appetizer, or at a luncheon. Beside 
the general names given above, soups receive special names 
from their color: as white, brown, or amber; or from the 
garnishing used, as macaroni, noodle, or Julienne. 



Thickenings for Soups. 



190 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Soups are thin or thick according to the absence or presence 
of material that gives body, or consistence to the liquid. 
This material is either roux (see page 22), blonde or brown, 
according to the color of the soup, meunifere, i.e., flour, corn- 
starch, or arrowroot mixed with water, one tablespoonful of 
the former to four of the latter, egg yolks beaten and diluted 
with cream, or milk, two yolks to half a cup of the liquid, or 
starchy material, as barley, rice, sago, tapioca. 

Roux 
Meimi^re 
Egg Yolks 
Grains, 
.Tapioca, etc. 

Roux may be added to any soups that have not been clarified. 
It is usually added to soups made of the legumes, or potatoes. 
Stir a little of the hot soup gradually into the roux, and when 
smoothly diluted stir the mixture into the soup-kettle; stir 
continuously until the soup boils, then let simmer ten minutes. 
Add the meunifere in the same manner as the roux, but let 
cook at least twenty minutes in the soup. Arrowroot may be 
used in a clear soup — a level tablespoonful to a quart — flour, 
cornstarch, or arrowroot may be used in other soups. To 
beaten yolks of eggs diluted with liquid add gradually a little 
of the hot soup, then stir into the soup, which should not be 
let rise to boiling point, stir until the egg looks cooked, then 
turn at once into the tureen. If the soup boils after the egg 
is cooked, it will present a curdled appearance. Rice, or 
barley is often cooked in a chicken, or mutton soup: sago 
and tapioca may be used in almost any soups, excepting cream 
soups, purees and the like. These may be cooked in a little 
water and added to the soup, or cooked in the stock. 

A clear soup is a most fitting and agreeable prelude to a 
ceremonial dinner. It is a savor to health before any dinner, 
as it is quickly absorbed by the linings of the stomach and 
gently stimulates that organ to take care of the more sub- 
stantial nourishment that is to follow. A cream soup, pur^e, 
bisque, or chowder is substantial in itself and may fittingly 
form the chief article of a meal for rich or poor alike. 



MATERIALS USED IN MAKING STOCK 191 



SOUPS WITH STOCK 

As cream soups are a means of utilizing whatever vegetables 
are left over from a previous meal, or day, so many a soup 
made from stock furnishes an opportunity to usfe up the 
"odds and ends" of xneat and bone that accumulate from 
day to day. Indeed, if we are to get all the nutriment pos- 
sible from our various food-supplies, it is absolutely necessary 
to take a part of our food in the form of soup. 

Now, by this we do not wish to imply that the stock-pot, 
or the soup-kettle should be steaming over the fire all the 
time. Except on some of the hottest summer days, tjie 
various odd's and ends may be kept on hand for several days, 
until a sufficient amount is collected, then they may be cooked 
at once, and the liquor strained and set aside. On no account 
keep the kettle over the fire day after day. Soups in per- 
fection cannot be drawn from such a source. 

MATERLALS USED IN MAKING STOCK 

Every kind of meat, as beef, mutton, lamb, veal, poultry, 
game, etc., may be used in stock-making, either alone or in 
combination. 

In large families, where roasts of beef, mutton, or poultry 
are eaten weekly, but little fresh meat need be purchased 
for soups, unless it be for some formal occasion, when a hand- 
some clear soup is desired. Yet remember that " ab nihilo, 
nihil fit." * 

As the individual or distinctive flavor of different kinds 
of meat is more highly developed in a cooked than in an un- 
cooked state, and as browned meats give a corresponding 
color to soup, it is well, particularly in making brown stock, 
to brown a portion of the meat used in making stock for clear 
soups. 

A small quantity of fat is a wholesome addition to any soup. 
A pairt of this will be absorbed by the stock during the cooking 
process, and the part that is not thus absorbed will rise to 
the top, forming a solid cake, which may be removed when 
the stock is cold. 



192 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

When uncooked meats are used for a soup, the marrow 
found in the shin of the hind-quarter is the best form of fat 
that can be obtained. In soups made from remnants, the 
browned fat of roasts gives a good flavor, and occasionally 
a bit of ham or bacon may be used; only two or three ounces, 
however, for a large dish of soup, as in a perfectly flavored 
soup no one savor should predominate. 

Expensive cuts of beef are not so well adapted to soup- 
making as the cheaper pieces. The blood flows more freely 
to those parts of the creature that are in constant use, and, 
though this use toughens the muscles, the life-giving juices 
are there, and long, slow cooking will remove them. Select 
then, for stock, the under part of the round, the vein, neck, 
flank, cheek, and shin, tough and inexpensive pieces, but full 
of nutriment. 

In making fish stock for general use in fish soups or entries, 
select the white-blooded varieties. The head and trimmings 
are valuable, because they contain gelatinous material, often 
desirable, and also considerable flesh,, but, aside from this, 
solid pieces of fish containing the albuminous juices are needed. 
Salmon, lobster, and other red-blooded fish need be used with 
discretion. 

As a general rule, that which is extracted from bones is the 
least desirable element that enters into a soup; particularly 
is this the case with beef bones, and if there be no bits of meat 
upon the bones, there would seem to be little reason for includ- 
ing them in soup-making. If bone be used and the liquid be 
cooked at a high temperature, lime is dissolved into the soup, 
giving it a cloudy appearance. The bones of chicken and 
veal are rich in delicate gelatine, and this is often desirable 
to give body to a soup. Gelatine is also a preservative agent, 
as stock that jellies, air being excluded, keeps much better 
than stock in a liquid form. 

THE SOUP-KETTLE 

In making stock all the nutriment and flavors possible 
are to be drawn out from the various ingredients and retained 
in the stock; but when once the volatile odors of fowl, vege- 



TEMPERATURE AND TIME OF COOKING 193 

table and herb have escaped from the saucepan and permeated 
the house, we cannot bring them back again to the soup- 
plate and this appetizing aroma is lost. So often nothing 
is left for serving but a thin, watery liquid, in appearance gray 
and cloudy from the lime extracted from the bones. Firgt of 
all, then, let the soup-kettle be furnished with a tight-fitting 
cover. And, moyeover, let this utensil be of agate, or granite- 
ware and as nearly free from blemishes as possible, For 
acid, found in all flesh, attacks unprotected iron, and thus 
gives an inky colour to the soup. Scrupulous cleanliness is 
just as essential to the making of a fine-flavored goup as in 
the making of a fine cup of coffee. Both the coffee-pot and 
the soup-kettle must be scoured frequently and well ftired 
after each use, 

TEMPERATURE AND TIME OF COOKING 

The first step in soup-making consists in drawing out -the 
soluble juices and flavoring constituents into the water; 
the second step is in keeping that which has been drawn out 
in a wholesome and agreeable condition. Since cold water is 
best fitted to extract juices, cut the meat, after wiping the 
outside with a damp cloth, into small bits, in order that as 
much surface as possible may be brought into contact with 
the water. Break or saw the bones into small pieces, put 
into the kettle and add cold water as it is required. After 
the meat has stood half an hour, or until the water is well 
colored, place the kettle over the fire and gradually heat the 
contents to the boiling point and. skim; then, in accordance 
with what has been said before in regard to thg eoagulation 
of albumen and other juices of flesh at a temperature below 
i8d° Fahr. and the loss of delicacy and digestibility whm 
cooked at higher temperature^ let the contents of soup-kettle 
gently simmer, or bubble slowly and constantly five or gijc 
hours. 

A celebrated cook once said: "Let the contents of the 
soup-digester boil but once and the soup is ruined," To 
some this may seem an extravagant statement; but it bees 
all such significance, when one stops to consider the delicate 



194 PRACTICAI COOKING AND SERVING 

flavor, the bright sparkle, and rich clearness of a consommdv 
or an amber soup that has been cooked at a low temperature, 
while all are familiar with the strong odor and the cloudy 
appearance of a soup that has been cooked at a temperature 
such that the lid of the kettle, when removed, was found 
covered with particles of coagulated albumen, deposited 
there by the furiously "galloping" liquid. 

Cook, then, meat at a low temperature; cook until it is in 
rags and colorless, the juice and flavor having been with- 
drawn. About one hour before this stage is reached 
add the vegetables and seasonings. Strain off the liquor 
from the bones, meat, and vegetables, pressing out every 
drop of juice and set aside where it will cool quickly. 

If the fowl, or any portion of the meat used in soup-making, 
is to be served apart, wait until the contents of the kettle 
are heated to about 170° Fahr., then put in that which you 
wish to serve apart from the soup, and allow it to cook at 
this low temperature until it becomes tender, then remove at 
once. 

JELLYING STOCK 

Stock, whether made from fresh meat, or from odds and 
ends, solidifies when it becomes cold, if it contains a goodly 
amount of gelatine. This constituent of meat, in the flesh, 
tendons and bones of young animals, is more soluble than it is 
in those of more mature age. It is found largely in the bones 
and tendons, but there is also a considerable quantity in the 
connective tissues of the lean meat. It takes, moreover, a 
higher degree of heat to extract gelatine from meat than some 
other constituents. A bouillon, therefore, made entirely of 
lean meat, will jelly or become solid, if there be taken a pound 
of meat to a pint of water and the juices be extracted at a 
temperature between 180° and 200° Fahr. 

Stock that jellies may be kept longer than that in a liquid 
state, as the air does not penetrate it readily. This is the 
case, more especially, if the stock be strained into bowls of a 
size convenient for future use and the covering of fat be kept 
intact. The addition of vegetables is not desirable, if the 



KINDS OF SOUP-STOCK 195 

stock is to be kept, for the juices of vegetables] sour more 
qtiickly than the juices of meat. 

PROPORTIONS OF VARIOUS INGREDIENTS 

In what is known as standard broth (bouillon) of beef, 
mutton, or fowl, etc., each pint of broth contains the soluble 
part (in simmering water) of one pound of fresh meat, with 
or without bones; this broth needs never be concentrated, 
but it may be diluted. To secure this broth requires not over 
three cups of water to each pound of meat, without "bone. 
When bone is used, which takes up at least one-fourth the 
entire weight, one pint of water to each pound of meat and 
bone as sent from the market will allow for evaporation and 
keep the correct proportion. When the broth is finished, 
hot water may be added, if the quantity does not equal the 
standard. Add for each quart of broth one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of sweet herbs and one tablespoonful, 
each, of the vegetables desired, a sprig of parsley, a bay leaf, 
three or four pepper-corns, or a blade of mace may also be 
added at discretion. 

When the stock is made from "left-overs," the amount of 
seasonings should be the same per quart, but the quantity of 
water should be reduced to just enough to cover the ingred- 
ients. 

As the quantity of alkaline and acid salts is larger in the . 
blood and juices of uncooked than of cooked flesh, it is well 
to add a small portion of raw, lean meat to stock made from 
the remnants of cooked food. On this account, it is advisable 
to remove the fiank-ends of steaks and chops and add them, 
uncooked, to the soup-kettle. 

KINDS OF SOUB-STOCK 

Brown soup-stock is made from dark-colored meats and 
various vegetables. A part of the meat, or fish and vegetables, 
is browned before it is added to the water. White soup , 
stock is made from light-colored meats, as veal and chicken; 
no vegetables that give color are used. Onion and celery 
are the vegetables most often used in making white soup- 



196 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

stock. The stock may be thickened, or served without thick- 
ening. In hot weather stock needs to be scalded each dav, 
but in winter it will keep several days. 

CLEARING STOCK 

Sometimes a soup is served that presents a clear, sparkling 
appearance, or stock is moulded into a clear jelly (aspic). 
To secure this condition, the stock is cleared. For this pur- 
pose a substance rich in albumen, as the whites of eggs, also 
the shells to which considerable white adheres, or raw meat, 
chopped fine, are used. In ordinary home cooking, the whites 
and shells of eggs are oftenest used. , 

Suppose the stock has been made according to the direc- 
tion given above and is now cold. Remove the fat; if the 
stock has jellied, wring a cloth out of warm water and gently 
wipe over the surface; the cloth will take up any particles of 
fat remaining upon the jelly. If the stock be liquid, lay a 
piece of tissue-paper upon it, press it lightly upon the liquid 
and the fat will adhere to it. Now very carefully take off 
the top of the stock, leaving the portion that is less clear and 
contains sediment in the bottom of the dish, for some other 
variety of soup. To each quart of stock add the crushed 
shell and the white of one egg, slightly beaten; mix together 
thoroughly and set over the fire to heat, stirring all the time 
until the liquid boils. As the liquid becomes heated, the egg 
coagulates, conibining with itself any fine particles floating 
in the stock, these it either brings to the top of the liquid, or 
it sinks with them to the bottom. Let boil vigorously five 
minutes, then add half a cup of cold water and set the sauce- 
pan aside, or on the back of the range for about five minutes. 
Skim carefully, then strain through cheesecloth spread over 
a colander or sieve. Reheat and serve. 

, If it be desired to use the stock before it has become thor- 
oughly cold and the fat "set, " with a spoon dip the fat from 
the top, then put a piece of ice wrapped in a cloth into the 
stock, holding it near the top, and the remaining fat will cling 
to the cloth and may be removed with the ice. 



FISH CONSOMME PRINTANIER 197 



VEGETABLE STOCK FOR SOUP MAIGRE 

2 pounds of onions 5 quarts of water. 

(six large onions) 2 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

2 pounds of carrots. 1-2 a red pepper or 

1-2 a head of celery. i teaspoonful of peppercorns. 

3 sprigs of parsley.. 4 cloves. 

I 1-2 cups of dripping or butter, i quart of dried peas or beans. 

Sautdthe vegetables, cut in pieces, in the dripping to a deli- 
cate brown color; add the water, cloves, and the legumes 
that have been soaked over night, parboiled ten minutes, 
rinsed and drained. Let boil once, then simmer until tender. 
Strain, let cool, remove the fat and use as any stock. 

STANDARD BROTH (FISH) 

3 pounds of white fish. 1-2 a bay leaf. 

3 pints of water. 4 sprigs of parsley. 

1 sliced onion. 1-2 a red pepper pod. 
1-2 a sliced carrot. 3 cloves. 

2 stalks of celery. Salt. 

Cut the fish in pieces and add the other ingredients; let 
boil, then skim and simmer about an hour and a half; strain 
and use as any stock. The vegetables may be browned in 
butter, or drippings, thus giving a brown stock. In practice, 
the heads and trimmings of fish with a little -solid flesh are 
used for soup-making. The broth may be clarified for con- 
sommd, or thickened with a roux and cream added for a cream 
soup, or the flesh may bfe passed through a sieve and added 
to make a fish pur^e. Fish soups are garnished with pieces 
of vegetable, or fish quenelles. 

FISH CONSOMME PRINTANIER 

Clarify standard fish broth with white and shells of eggs, ~ 
or chopped fish, strain, reheat, and add as a garnish any early 
spring vegetables left whole, or cut in cubes, or juliennes and 
cooked. Peas, pieces of string-beans, asparagus-tips, carrot, 
or turnip slices are among the vegetables so used. 



198 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

formula for three pints of standard broth 

(beef, veal, chicken, mutton or game) 

4 pounds of meat (one-fourth bone) 1-43 sweet pepper. 
4pints of cold water. i 1-2 teaspoonfuls of sweet herbs 

I 1-2 teaspoonfuls of salt. (marjoram, thyme, etc.) 

10 or 12 peppercorns or t sprig of parsley. 

4 cloves. f carrot. 

I i-2tablespoonfuls, each, of ■^ onion. 

L celery. 
1-2 a bay leaf. i 1-2 tablespoonfuls of turnip at dis- 

cretion 

Prepare according to directions previously given: celery- 
seed, or root, may take the place of fresh celery; meat for 
stock needs be very fresh. Soups from broth may be varied 
indefinitely by changes in consistency and garnish, one or both. 

BROWN SOUP-STOCK 

Brown soup-stock is standard broth made of beef with part 
of the beef and vegetables browned to give color. Saut^ 
the meat in marrow, or drippings (the best marrow is found 
in the hind shin) slowly and carefully, to avoid burning the 
meat. Meantime, let the rest of the meat, cut in small cubes, 
soak in cold water. 

After the sauted meat has been added to the soup-kettle, 
let the frying-pan stand in a warm place, partly filled with 
liquid from the soup-kettle and thus insure melting from the 
pan all the browned material that is to give color to the soup. 
Saut6 the vegetables about an hour and a half before the 
stock is cooked and add to the kettle with the other season- 
ings. Rinse out the pan and add as before to the soup-kettle. 
When cooked, strain and set aside to cool. If a large quantity 
of stock be prepared, strain into several dishes, holding the 
quantity needed for a meal, and narrow rather than flat, that 
there may be fat enough to form a covering for each. 

BOUILLON 

This is the same as standard beef-broth, omitting the bone 
from the meat. A cup of canned tomato, or two fresh toma- 



ENGLISH BEEF SOUP 199 

toes are sometimes added with the vegetables. Bouillon is 
usually, though not always, clarified (see Clearing of Stock, 
page 196). 

CONSOMME 

f carrot. 
3 lbs. of beef from lower part of 1-2 cup, each, of i onion, 

round. t celery. 

3 lbs. of knuckle veal. i bay leaf. 

Marro sv, if at hand. 2 sprigs of parsley. 

3 or 4 lbs. of fowl. 3 teaspoonfuls of sweet herbs. 

I ounce of lean ham. i tablespoonful of salt. 

3 1-2 quarts of water. 10 peppercorns. 

Saut^ part of the beef and all of the veal, cut in inch cubes 
in the marrow, or drippings (that from the top of the stock- 
kettle preferred) until a delicate amber color; add a quart 
of water and let simmer about an hour or until nearly evap- 
orated, forming a glaze on the bottom of the soup-kettle; 
then add the rest of the meat, the bone, if desired, the ham 
and the water, and heat slowly to the boiling point; skim, add 
the fowl and let simmer until the fowl is tender; remove the 
fowl for other use and add the seasonings with the vegetables 
sauted without coloring; let simmer about an hour, then 
strain and set aside to cool. When cold remove the fat. add 
additional seasoning, if desired, and clarify the stock. 

ENGLISH BEEF SOUP 

1-4 a pound of tender beef. i quart of standard beef broth. 

1-2 an onion in rings. 1-4 a cup of cooked carrot. 

2 stalks of celery cut transversely. 1-4 a cup of cooked barley. 

1 cup of boiling water. 1-2 a tablespoonful of Wor- 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. cestershire sauce. 
I tablespoonftd of tomato catsup. Salt and pepper. 

Cut the beef in squares and brown with the onions and 
celery in butter, marrow, or drippings ; add the boiling water 
and braise until the meat is tender, then add the flour, mixed 
with water to pour; let cook ten or fifteen minutes; then add 
the hot broth, barley, and carrot, with the catsup, sauce, salt, 
and pepper. 



200 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CHICKEN soap 

1 quart of standard chicken broth, 1-2 a cup of cream, 

(flavored with onion, celery. Salt and pepper. 

sweet herbs, etc.) Whites of two eggs. 

1 pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuis of fine, quick- 

2 yolks of eggs. cooking tapioca. 

Scald the broth, stir in the tapioca and let cook over hot 
water (double-boiler) until transparent ; add the milk scalded, 
remove from the fire and stir in the beaten yolks diluted with 
the cream; let thicken without boiling, then turn into the 
tureen, adding salt and pepper; arrange on the top the whites 
of the eggs, beaten dry with a few grains of salt, and poached, 
by spoonfuls, in hot water, or milk; or serve in bouillon 
cups with a spoonful of the poached white on the top of each 
cup. 

WHITE ALMOND SOUP 

2 quarts of standard veal broth. 2 ounces of almonds. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 2 tablespoonfuis of corn-starch. 

I cup of cream. 

Cream together the butter and cornstarch and dilute with 
hot stock gradually; let boil five minutes, then stir into the 
rest of the stock; add the hot cream, more seasoning, if needed, 
and the almonds blanched and pounded fine in a mortar. 

OXTAIL SOUP 

2 oxtaila. 2 stalks of celery. 
1-4 a cup of drippings. Red pepper, 

1-4 a cup of flour. i small onion. 

4 quarts of standard broth, or com- i cup of carrot, 

mon stock. i cup of turnip. 

Parsley, bay leaf. Salt. 

Worcestershire Sauce. 

Separate the tails at the joints into pieces; saut^ in the 
dripping to a brown color, add the flour and, when blended, 
the stock ; let boil once, then simmer until the meat is tender, 
adding the parsley, bay leaf, and piece of red pepper wrapped 



LETTUCE SOUP 201 

in the celery stalks. Sautd the onion cut in slicesj these 
separated into rings, and the carrot and turnips, each, cut into 
balls, or fanciful shapes, in hot dripping, then add water and 
cook until tender. Remove the fat and the bouquet from 
the soup, thicken, if desired, with roux, or cornstarch mixed 
with cold water, add the drained vegetabW and salt and 
Worcestershire sauce to taste. 

TOMATO SOUP 

I quart of standard beef broth or Onion juice. 

I quart of stock made from left Celery salt, 

overs, or water in which mutton Fine-chopped parsley, 

has been cooked. 2 tablespoonfuls cf cornstarch. 

1 quart of tomatoes. Macaroni. 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Salt and pepper. 

Press the tomatoes through a sieve; bring the pulp to a 
boiling point, add the cornstarch, diluted with cold water to 
pour, the sugar, onion juice, celery-salt, and parsley, if used; 
let cook ten minutes and add the hot broth, season and serve. 
Garnish with inch-pieces of cooked macaroni, or with egg- 
balls, noodles, chicken quenelles, or yolks of egg poached in 
water just " off the boil. " 

LETTUCE SOUP 

1 large head of lettuce. 1 teaspoonfiil of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 
1 - 2 a teaspoonful of sugar. 5 cups of broth or water. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of tarragon vine- Yolks of 2 eggs. ' 

gar. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Chop the lettuce -and saut^ in the butter with the sugar 
and vinegar; add the flour, and, when blended With the butter, 
the broth or water gradually ; when the lettuce is tender, add 
the yolks beaten and diluted with the cream; let thicken 
without boiling. Serve with croutons. 



202 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



TOMATO AND GREEN PEA SOUP (B. COOKING SCHOOL) 

I cup of green peas. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I cup of tomatoes. Salt and pepper. 

1 quart of season.ed stock. 1-2 a cup of cooked peas. 

2 tablespoonfuls of com starch. Crisped crackers. 

Cook the peas and tomatoes until tender in water to cover; 
press through a sieve and add to the stock; when boiling 
dilute the cornstarch with cold liquid to pour and stir into 
the hot soup; let simmer ten minutes; add the butter in bits, 
stirring well; add the salt, pepper, and cooked peas. Serve 
with crisped crackers. 

SOUP OFTEN MADE WITHOUT STOCK 

PUREES 

The word pur€e is used to include cream soups, bisques, and 
plain: purees. The latter are thick soups, in which the purde 
predominates and milk or cream is not used as a rule. 
Plain purees are made of legumes, chestnuts, chicken, or 
game. They do not call for a roux or other binding agent, 
though flour and butter cooked together may be used. The 
thickness of the soup comes from the representative ingredient. 
An these soups are very nutritious ; consequently they should 
not be served at dinner as a first course and be followed by 
other and more substantial dishes, unless the soup be pre- 
sented for the same reason that Abigail Adams, the economical 
and thrifty wife of our second President, is said to have served 
the commeal pudding before the roast, i.e., to save the roast. 
They are appropriately served as luncheon soups and are 
particularly good for children and old people. 

PUREE OF CHICKEN 

1-4 a cup of pork lardoons. 21-2 quarts of cold water. 

1-4 a cup of chopped onion 1-2 a pound of white bread. 

1-4 a cup of chopped carrot. Salt. Mace. 

Parsley with thyme and bay leaf. i oimce of blanched almonds. 
I four-pound fowl. i pint of milk. 

3 ounces of butter. 



SPLIT PEA, LENTIL OR BEAN PUREE 203 

Put the lardoons, onion, carrot, and the parsley, garnished, 
into the soup-kettle, with the fowl above them ; add one pint 
of the water and let slowly reduce to a glaze, then add the 
rest of the water; let boil once, then simmer until the chicken 
is tender. Remove the chicken and pound the meat (without 
skin, fat, or bone) with the breadcrumb, moistening with 
the broth as needed. Season with salt and mace and press 
through a pur^e sieve ; reheat without boiling, add one pint of 
almond milk and, when ready to serve, stir in gradually the 
butter. Serve small chicken quenelles made from part of 
the breast in the soup. To make the almond milk, pound the, 
freshly blanched almonds in the mortar, adding a little milk 
to moisten, then heat with the milk and press through a nap- 
kin. 

PUREE OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

2 pounds of artichokes. i teaspoonful of salt. 

2 onions. 2 quarts of standard broth. 

I -4 a cup of flour. . 3 yolks of eggs. 

I teaspoonful of sugar. i cup of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Pare the artichokes and cook with the onions until tender; 
then mash and press through a sieve ; add with the water in 
which they were cooked to the broth ; dilute the flour, sugar, 
and salt with a little cold broth and stir into the hot soup and 
let simmer twenty minutes. When ready to serve, add the • 
butter in little bits, then the beaten yolks diluted with the 
cream. Do not let the soup boil after the addition of the 
eggs. 

split pea, lentil or bean puree 

(dried legumes) 

I pint of dried legumes. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

I onion. Salt and pepper. 

1-2 a head of celery. 1-2 a can of strained tomatoes, ot 

A ham bone if at hand. i cup of cream if desired. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



204 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Soak the legumes over night In cold water; wash, drain, 
and simmer in three pints of water, stirring often with a 
wooden spoon and adding more water as evaporation neces- 
sitates. If a ham-bone be used, put on to cook at the same 
time as the legumes. "When the vegetables are becoming 
tender, saut6 the onion and celery, cut fine, in a little dripping 
and add to the soup; when all are tender, press through a 
pur^e sieve, reheat and stir in the butter and flour creamed 
together, or if cream or tomato be used, make into a sauce 
with the liquid and then add to the soup. Serve hot with 
croutons. The flour may be omitted, if the settling of the 
pulp be thought unobjectionable. 

POTAGE PARMENTIER (POTATO PUREE) 

1 dozen potatoes. 3 cloves. 

2 onions. 2 quarts of Veal broth. 

1 head of celery. Salt. Parsley. 
White part of 2 leeks, 3 yolks of eggs. 

4 ounces of butter. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

(1-2 a cup) 2 ounces of butter. 

Fine chopped chervil. 

Saut^ the potatoes, pared and sliced, with the onions, celery 
and leekp, also sliced, in the four ounces of butter ten minutes ; 
add the cloves, broth, salt, and parsley and cook until the 
potatoes are tender; then press through a fine sieve. Return 
to the fire, add more broth, if too thick, and let simmer twenty 
minutes, skimming as needed. Just before serving add the 
beaten yolks, diluted with the cream, and the two ounces of 
butter in little bits. Sprinkle over the soup in the tureen a 
little fine-chopped chervil. Serve with croutons. 

BAKED BEAN AND TOMATO PUREE 

1-4 a bay leaf. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 slices of onion. i tablespoonful of floiir. 

2 stalks of celery. Croutons or buttered crackers 

I sprig of parsley. browned. 

I pint of Boston baked beans. I quart of water or light stock. 

T cup of thick tomato puree. Salt and paprika. 



CEIEAM SOUPS 805 

Sautd the onion, parsley, fine-cut celery and bay leaf in two 
tablespoonfuls of drippings; add the baked beans and the 
water, or stock (made from left-overs) and let simmer half 
an hour, then pass through the sieve and reheat. Melt the 
butter; in this cook the flour, add the tomato pur^e and, when 
boiling, season and stir into the bean purde. Serve with 
croutons, or browned crackers, 

CHESTNUT PUREE (SOUP) 

Boil sixty blanched chestnuts in a quart of water, or light 
stock, then press while hot through a fine pur^e sieve; add 
two quarts of broth, stir until the boiling point Is reached, 
then simmer an hour; skim and pour the soup into a tureen. 
Serve with croutons of fried bread. 

CREAM SOUPS 

FORMULA FOR CREAM SOUPS 

2 cups of puree and liquid (cauliflower, asparagus, spinach, 
peas, etc.) 

' i;4 a cup of flour. 
1-4 a cup of butter. 
2 cups of milk or part white stock. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 
. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 
' 1-2 an onion. 
1 sprig of parsley. 

I stalk of celery, or tablespoonful of celery seed. 
_ I sprig of mint (with peas,) 

( Yolks of two eggs. 
Additional nutriment when desired ■{ 

1 1-2 a cup of cream. 
Milk and white stock to make of desired consistency. 
Salt and pepper as required. 

Of these soups, cream and bisque consist in the main of a 
simple combination of a -thin white sauce with vegetable, 
fish, or meat piilp, thinned to the proper consistency by the 
addition of milk, cream, or white stock. Almost any vege- 
table, fish, chicken, or game may be used in these soups; the 



2 cups of white sauce 



Flavoring 



2o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

vegetables, cut in pieces when it is necessary, with such as are 
used for flavoring, may be sauted, either with or without 
browning, in butter and drippings and then cooked in water 
until tender; or the preliminary saut^ing may be dispensed 
with. When tender, press through a pur^e sieve, using a 
wooden spoon or pestle. Moisten now and then with the 
liquid in which the vegetable was cooked, to facilitate the 
operation ; dilute, the meat or fish, cooked and pounded fine, 
with liquid and press through a pur^e sieve. If well-flavored 
stock be not at hand and milk or water is to be used, cook 
a part of an onion, a stalk of celery, or a sprig of parsley with 
the vegetables. A sprig of mint is often cooked with the peas 
that are to be used for a cream of pea soup, and a slice of 
onion, a stalk of celery, or a handful of mushroom stalks and 
peelings, with the tomatoes for a tomato-soup. 

A handful of spinach, boiled with the lettuce, peas, or 
asparagus to be used in these soups, will help give the green 
tint desirable in a soup made of green vegetables. 

The vegetable pulp and the liquid do not unite, or form a 
"liaison," as the French cooks say, but the pulp settles to 
the bottom of the dish. To remedy this and give the soup a 
smooth, velvety consistency, a starchy material, as tapioca, 
cornstarch, or flour is added. Foiu: tablespoonfuls of flour, 
or half that quantity of cornstarch or arrowroot for each 
quart of soup will suffice, especially if the yolks of the eggs 
are also used. Since the cream soups are in reality a com- 
bination of white-sauce and fish, meat, or vegetable pulp, the 
blending ingredient may be added in either of the three ways 
in which such material is added to a sauce (see Sauces, 
page 220), ist, by cooking the flour and butter or drippings 
to a roux and then diluting with the cold liquid. 

2nd. Cream the butter and flour together, dilute with a 
little of the hot liquid and, when smooth, stir into the hot 
liquid. 

3d. Mix the flour with a little 'of the cold liquid and stir 
into the hot liquid. In the two latter methods, the soup 
needs simmer ten minutes after the starchy material is added. 

If milk or cream be added to the pulp of some vegetables. 



CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP'. 207 

as asparagus, and the mixture be again heated to the boiling 
point, the soup is liable to assume a curdled appearance; 
hence, it is safer to add the hot milk or cream just before the 
soup is sent to the table. 

When stock is used for these soups, nothing is gained by- 
cooking the vegetables in the stock; but by so doing much 
is lost in volume and flavor. Cook the vegetables in water, 
and add the stock afterwards. 

CREAM OF SORREL SOUP 

I cup of sorrel. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 

1-2 a cup of water. 2 cups of standard broth. 

1-3 a cup of butter. (Veal and chicken together or one 

1-2 an onion. alone.) 

1-3 a cup of flour. i 1-2 cups of cream or milk. 

I teaspoonful of sugar. Yolks of two eggs. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

Boil the sorrel in the water ten minutes, drain and chop 
fine. Cook the onion, sliced, in the butter five minutes with- 
out browning; add the flour and, when smooth, the sorrel, 
sugar, salt, and pepper; when well mixed, add the stock; let 
boil once, then add the cream, scalded, and the yolks beaten 
and diluted with the half-cup of cream. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

Score each row of kernels with a sharp knife and press out 
the pulp; now cook the ears in a little cold water, and add 
this water, well reduced, to the pulp ; let simmer ten minutes, 
then pass through the sieve into the sauce ; add milk, or stock, 
salt, and pepper. When fresh corn is not at hand, canned 
com or, better still, komlet may be used. The proportions are: 

I pint of com pulp. i slice of onion. 

I quart of white sauce. Salt and pepper. 

CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP 

I pint of dried Italian cepes or Salt and pepper. 

I quart of fresh mushrc oms. Milk, cream or white stock. 

1-2 an onion. Yolks of two eggs if desired. 

I pint of white sauce. 



2o8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Saut^ the fresh mushrooms with the onion, sliced, in a 
little butter without browning them. Then pound in a mor- 
tar, pass through the pur^e sieve, and proceed as usual. If 
cepes be used, let soak in cold water, add the onion, and let 
simmer until tender. 

CREAM OF LIMA BEANS AND ONIONS 

Boil together one pint of lima beans,— if dry beans be used 
they need be soaked over night, — ^two onions, and two sprigs 
of parsley. To each pint of pulp and liquid allow a pint of 
white sauce and proceed as usual. A full pint of milk, or 
white stock will also be required. 

OYSTER SOUP 

I quart of oysters. 1-2 an onion. 

I quart of milk. 2 sprigs of parsley. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 

1-4 a pup of flour. Salt as needed. 

I cup of celery leaves and stalks. 

Pour a cup of cold water over the oysters and look them 
over carefully, to remove any bits of shell. Strain the liquor 
through a cheesecloth, then boil and skim; add to this the 
oysters, and let simmer until they look plump and the edges 
curl, then stir them into the sauce made by cooking the flour 
and the butter creamed together in the milk scalded with the 
onion, celery, and parsley before adding the thickening to the 
milk. Part cream gives a much more delicious soup. If 
preferred, the oysters may be chopped, after parboiling, and 
pressed through a sieve. 

BISQUES 

Bisque is a soup of ancient origin, to which there are many 
allusions in old literary works. The old recipes for bisque 
begin with "Wash half a hundred crayfish;" for, in its first 
estate, the basis of a bisque was always crayfish, a small fresh- 
water crustacean resembling the lobster. At the present 
time we have come to use the word in a more general sense, 
applying it to a class of purfes generally made of salt-watei 



BISQUE OF OYSTER SOUP 209 

moUusks, or crustaceans, to which milk or cream is added, 
sometimes white stock, also tender bits of the fish cooked for 
the pur^e. We also speak of "mock bisque soup," a soup 
having the general characteristics — particularly as regards 
color and consistency — of the original bisque, but wanting in 
an5rthing corresponding to the tender bits of crayfish that are 
so conspicuous in the original soup. We might, also, regard- 
less of color, etc., have a bisque of mushrooms. Bisques were 
formerly thickened with boiled rice which was pounded with 
the flesh to a pulp and sifted into the hot milk. 

BISQUE OF LOBSTER 

2 pound lobster. i quart of milk. 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-4 a cup of flour. 

I pint of light stock or water (liquor in which a fowl has been 
cooked) . 

Cut the tender portions of the claws into small cubes and 
put them into the soup tureen with the bits of meat from the 
body bones and the green liver. Simmer the body-bones and 
tough meat of the lobster in the stock or water half an hour. 
Chop or pound the meat from the tail and scald in the milk. 
Cream together the butter, seasonings, flour and sifted coral 
and cook in the hot milk ten minutes, stirring constantly 
until the milk thickens; pass through the pur6e sieve, strain 
into this the water, or stock in which the bones were simmered, 
reheat and pour into the tureen. 

BISQUE OF OYSTER SOUP 

1 quart of oysters. 1-2 an onion. 

I teaspoonful of curry powder. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of paprika. 3 tablespoonfuls of com starch. 

Hot milk or cream as desired. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Quickly heat the oysters to the boiling point in their own 
liquor, drain and strain the liquor; saut^ in the butter without 
browning the onion cut fine, add the seasonings (the curry 
may be omitted) and the cornstarch ; when frothy dilute with 
the oyster liquor and let simmer ten minutes, then keep hot 
over hot water ; pound the oysters, then pass them through the 



2IO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pur^e sieve, and reheat in the sauce. When ready to serve, 
dilute to the consistency desired with hot milk or cream 
and pass through a sieve. Serve in each plate four or five 

OYSTER FORCEMEAT BALLS 

1-2 a cup of cooked oysters. 1-2 a cup of fresh mushrooms. 

1-2 a cup of bread crumbs. Yolk of egg. 

Peel the mushrooms, saut6 five minutes in a little butter, 
chop fine, add to the oyster pur^e, or oysters, parboiled and 
chopped, with the sifted breadcrumbs, salt and pepper and 
uncooked yolk of ?gg to bind the whole ; roll into small balls, 
put on a buttered baking-sheet and cook five or six minutes 
in a hot oven, or poach in hot water. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

I can or quart of tomatoes. 1-2 a cup of flour. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. i quart of milk. 

1-2 a cup of butter. Salt and pepper. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of soda, if desired. 

Cook the tomatoes and sugar fifteen minutes ; add the soda, 
if the tomatoes are very ripe, or have been long canned, other- 
wise omit, strain and reheat. Make a white-sauce of the 
other ingredients; add the tomato and serve at once with 
croutons. 

Okra is cultivated extensively in the South and West for 
its young pods, which are very mucilaginous. These are 
used principally in soups, but they are sometimes boiled and 
dressed like asparagus. In the South, the pods of some 
varieties grow from four to eight inches in length. The dwarf 
varieties, having shorter pods, are best suited to Northern 
gardens. The pods must be gathered when they are young 
and tender. They may be preserved, for winter use, by 
drying or canning; they are also "put down" in salt, in the 
same manner as cucumbers. In the South, a soup or stew, 
made of chicken, oysters, etc., and thickened with these 
mucilaginous pods, is called "gumbo, " a word thought to be 
of negro origin. Canned okra retails for about fifteen cents 
per can, and the gumbo-powder for thirty cents per bottle. 
The powder is added just before serving the soup. 



BRUNSWICK STEW (VIRGINIA) , 2n 

GUMBO SOUP (FROM FRESH OKRA PODS) 

3 tablespoonfuls of lard. 1-2 a small pod of red pepper. 

3 or 4 ounces of ham. 1-2 a bay leaf. 

1 fowl (about 4 pounds) 2 sprigs of thyme. 

I quart of green okra pods. Boiled rice. 

1 onion sliced. Salt. 

1-3 a cup of flour. 3 or 4 tomatoes. 

Disjoint the fowl, cut the ham in pieces and saut^ them in 
the hot lard to a golden brown : remove the chicken to a stew- 
pan (iron must not be used with okra) and saut^ the onion 
and the okra-pods cut in pieces; then add the flour and, when 
well blended with the fat, of which more may be needed, add 
gradually a quart of water; when boiling add to the chicken 
with another quart of water, the tomatoes, skins removed, the 
red pepper, bay leaf, thyme, and salt; let simmer, covered, 
very slowly until the fowl is cooked, adding more water if 
needed, also salt. In serving add a spoonful of boiled rice 
to each plate. 

BRUNSWICK STEW (VIRGINIA) 

I gallon of hot water. 4. onions. 

1 large chicken or 8 ears of com. 

2 small chickens. i cup of butter. 

1 1-2 pints of tomato. i cup of bread crumbs. 

2 slices of fat bacon. Salt and pepper. 

Into a saucepan, or soup-kettle, put the onions chopped 
fine, the tomatoes, skin removed, cut into small pieces, the 
bacon, which is to be removed when it has seasoned the stew, 
and the fowl, disjointed. 

Pour over the water and let simmer until- the fowl is tender. 
Take out the fowl, remove the bones, skin, and gristle, chop 
fine and return to the kettle with the corn. To prepare the 
com, cut each row of kernels down through the centre and 
press out all the pulp. Cook twenty minutes longer. Add 
the butter and breadcrumbs with salt and pepper. This 
recipe should make four quarts. Water may be added to 
make up what is lost by evaporation. 



212 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CHOWDERS 

Chowders belong to a class of soups or perhaps stews often 
designated "hodge-podge." They are supposed to have 
been first made by the fisher-folk of Brittany. Each brought 
his offering to the chandiere, or caldron, in which was cooked 
the fish, biscuits, and savory condiments, and received in 
return his share, when the dish was completed. 

The early colonists in this country had learned from the 
French how to make the dish, and a knowledge of the savory 
chowders made in those early days of the country, both in 
Newfoundland and on the coast farther south, is a matter of 
history. The basis of a good chowder is a fish stock of more or 
less richness. 

FISH CHOWDER (BOSTON STYLE) 

3 to 4 pounds of fisb. 3 cups of milk. 

1-4 pound of salt pork (scant) . 1-4 a cup of butter. ■ 

I small onion. Pepper. 

I quart of sliced potatoes. i o or 1 2 hard water-crackers. 

I tablespoonful of salt. 1-3 a cup of floiu^, if desired. 

The fish needs be very fresh ; cod, haddock, or lake fish may 
be used. Skin the fish and remove the flesh in two long 
fillets; cut these in two-inch pieces and set aside; cover the 
head, body-bones and trimmings with cold water, let come 
slowly to the boiling point, then simmer half an hour. Cut 
the pork into bits and cook out the fat slowly, to avoid dis- 
coloring; in this saut^ the sliced onion without browning, add 
fat and onion to the saucepan in which the head is simmering 
and strain the whole over the fish. Add the potatoes, that 
have been parboiled five minutes and drained, the salt, and 
pepper, and simmer until the potatoes are tender, about ten 
minutes, then. add the milk scalded, the crackers split and 
spread with butter, and the rest of the butter. Serve in soup- 
plates from the tureen. If a thicker consistency be desired, 
cream together the fiour and an equal measure of butter 
and cook fifteen minutes in the scalded milk, then add to the 
other ingredients. 



CORN CHOWDER 213 

FISH CHOWDER, CONEY ISLAND STYLE 

Use three or four cups of strained tomatoes in the place 
of the milk and two-thirds a cup of cracker-crumbs instead of 
the Split crackers. Season with a teaspoohfiil of mixed 
thyme and summer savory, six cloves, half a bay leaf, and a 
sprig of parsley. 

FISH CHOWttER, ENGLISH STYLE 

Use a generous cup of rather coarse, soft breadcrumbs 
instead of the Crackers, and sprinkle each plate of chowder 
before passing with a tableSpoonful of small irregulaf-shaped 
croutons. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Substitute a solid quart of clams for the fish, the other 
ingredients being the same as for fish chowder. Add a dUp 
of cold Water to the clams, pick over carefully, to remove bits 
of shell, strain the water and claih liquor through two folds 
of cheesecloth and in it scald the clams; strain otit the clams 
and keep hdt. Add the flour td the fat and onion, cook until 
frothy, then gradually add the clam liquor and^ when the mix- 
ture boils, strain it over the parboiled potatoes, and cook until 
the potatoes are tender, adding no riibre water than is neces- 
sary. When ready to serve add the scalded milk (part cream 
is better), the clams, and the cfackers. Many kinds of 
crackers need be soaked in cold milk before they are added 
to the chowder. 

Substitute oysters for clams for oyster chowder. 

CORN CHOWDER 

I quart of ff esh Corn pulp or i cup, eachj of cream and milk. 

I can of komlet or canned corn. i sliced onion. 

I quart of sliced potatoes. 2 tablespopnfuls of butter. 

1-4 a pound of fat salt pork. 6 crackers. 

1-2 a tablespoonful of salt or more. Pepper. 

Cook the sliced onion in the fat froiri the pork, add two cups 
of water and let simmer while the potatoes are parboiling; then 



214 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

drain the potatoes and strain over them the water from the 
onions ; add the com and simmer tintil the potatoes are tender, 
then add the scalded cream, the butter and the seasonings, 
put the crackers, spUt and soaked in cold milk, in the tureen 
and pour over the chowder. 

SOUR CHERRY SOUP (NORTH GERMANY) 

Stone a cup of sour cherries and reserve to serve in the soup. 
Stew the juice with a pint of cherries in a quart of water and 
press through a fine sieve. Heat to the boiling point and 
thicken with a teaspoonful of cornstarch, diluted with water 
to pour, or mixed with one-fourth a cup of sugar; let cook 
fifteen minutes. Meanwhile, pound the cherry-stones and 
heat them with a cup of red wine just to the boiling point 
and strain the liquid into the soup ; add the stoned cherries 
and serve with crackers or toast, sprinkled, if desired, with 
sugar. The soup may be served cold with sweet crackers 
soaked slightly on the edges with wine, then sprinkled with 
sugar. Macaroons and plain sweet crackers are also served. 
Fruit soups take the place of fruit as a first course at a luncheon 
or tea and may be made of almost any variety of fruit. The 
thickening is often omitted. 

WINE OF SAGO SOUP 

Diliite the desired amount of claret with an equal amount of 
cold water and sweeten to taste. Serve in cups, adding to 
each cup a few grains of sago, cooked in water and cooled, 
and twq or three pieces of pineapple cut in fanciful shape with 
a French cutter. The claret may be diluted with cold con- 
somme (made from lean meat without bones, and cooked at 
a low temperature, so that it may not jelly), but the soup will 
not be quite as clear as when water is used. This soup is 
appropriate as an appetizer, at a luncheon, "tea, " or spread, 
where cold service is desired. 

GARNISHES FOR SOUPS 

In serving a soup with a garnish, have the soup in the tureen, 
and the garnish, covered with a few spoonfuls of soup, to keep 



EGG BALLS 215 

it moist, in a vegetable dish. Then when a ladle of soup — a 
cup of soup is allotted to each individual — has been placed 
in a soup-plate, add to it about a tablespoonful of garnish. 
Serve about a dozen peas, or other small article, and half a 
dozen quenelles, pieces of custard, or timbale cut with French 
cutter; or if, as is sometimes the case, timbales cut in three 
even slices are to be served, add to the small garnish two slices 
of timbale. 

WHITE CUSTARD FOR CONSOMME 

Add a tablespoonful of cream or milk to each white of egg 
and beat until well blended. Season with salt, white pepper, 
and a little celery-salt. Strain into a buttered mould and 
let poach, standing on a trivet, until the centre is firm. When 
cold unmould, cut in thin slices and stamp out in fanciful 
figures. The addition of the liquid, particularly cream, gives 
a very tender garnish. 

YOLKS FOR MOCK TURTLE, CONSOMME, ETC. 

Drops the yolks into salted water, just below the boiling 
point, and let them lie until they are cooked throughout. 
Serve one in each plate of soup. 

ROYALE CUSTARD FOR CONSOMME A LA ROYALE 

3 yolks. 1-4 a teaspoonful of mace. 

I whole egg. A few grains of paprika. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of cream or consomme. 

Beat the eggs until white and yolks are well mixed; add 
the seasonings and liquid and strain into a buttered mould of 
such size as to make the custard nearly half an inch thick. 
Poach in hot wate^ in the oven, or on the top of the stove, 
until firm. When cold unmould and cut in squares, diamonds, 
or other shapes with a French cutter. 

EGG BALLS 

3 yolks of hard boiled eggs. A few grains of salt and pepper. 

I - 2 a teaspoonful of melted butter. The uncooked yolk of an egg. 

Press the cooked yolks through a sieve; add the butter, 



2i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

salt and pepper, and enough of the raw yolk to make the 
mixture of a consistency to handle. Shape in small balls, 
roll in white of egg and then in flour, and saut^ in butter, or 
poach in hot water. Serve with brown soup, consomm^, or 
mock turtle soup. 

NOODLES 

To three eggs, slightly beaten, add a few grains of salt and 
enough flour to make a stiff dough ; knead fifteen or twenty 
minutes, when it will be elastic; roll into a sheet as thin as 
paper; (a piece of duck, or sail-cloth is the best surface upon 
which to roll the paste). Let stand covered with a cloth 
about half an hour, then with a sharp knife cut as desired into 
threads or quarter-inch ribbons: or cut with a tube into 
rounds half an inch in diameter, or with French cutter into 
fanciful shapes. Cook the threads, ribbons, or fanciful shapes 
,in boiling salted water fifteen minutes, then add to the hot 
soup. Fry the rounds in smoking hot fat; they will puff in 
cooking. To cut the threads and ribbons, roll the paste 
loosely like a jelly-roll, then cut off in pieces the width desired. 
To cut the rounds, etc., fold, the paste so as to make two or 
more thicknesses; separate the pieces and let dry an hour 
before cooking. Serve in brown soup, or in consomm^, or as 
a vegetable. 

TAPIOCA, SPAGHETTI, MACARONI, ETC. 

Tapioca, spaghetti, alphabet paste, macaroni, cut into rings, 
or broken in two-inch lengths, and vegetables, cut in fancy 
shapes, are all used for garnishes. In all cases these should 
be cooked in boiling, salted water until tender, then drained 
and added to the soup. Macaroni is cut into rings after it 
is cooked, the others are cut into shapes either, before or after 
cooking; all should be blanched before cooking. If quick 
cooking tapioca be used, it may be cooked in the soup. Serve 
in brown or white soup — that is, broths, or consomm^. 

CHESTNUT TIMBALE FOR CONSOMME 

I - 2 a cup of chestnut puree. The yolk of six eggs. 

1 - 2 a cup of cteam. A few grains of mace and salt. 



PEARL BARLEY 217 

Beat the yolks slightly and add to the other ingredients ; 
poach until firm in a buttered mould. When cold unmould 
and cut in small pieces. 

chicken custard for consomme 

(green and red) 

1-4 a cup of cooked chicken. 3 tablespoonfuls of tomato pUf ee. 

2 eggs. Salt and paprika. 

Pound the chicken in a mortar and with pestle press through 
the pur^e sieve; add the seasonings, beaten eggs and tomato 
and poach until firm in a buttered mould. When cold un- 
mould and cut as desired. Serve accompanied with half a 
cup of peas. 

TOMATO, CHICKEN, SHRIMP, ONION, GREEN PEA AND 
ASPARAGUS TIMBALES 

(served in consomme) 

1-2 a cup of puree as desired. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or con- 
Yolks of four eggs. somm6. 
I whole egg. Salt and pepper. 

The cooked material is to be pounded in a mortar, when 
needed, then passed through a puree sieve, mixed with the 
other ingredients and poached and cut in the usual manner. 

VEGETABLES 

(served in consomme and also in certain broths, 
purees and cream soups) 

Flowerets of cauliflower, asparagus, peas, string-beans cut 
in diamond shapes, or Julienne style (strips two inches by one- 
fourth an inch), carrots cut in figures, in strips, or in balls, — 
these should be blanched and cooked before adding them to 
the soup. Cucumber pulp cut in shape of peas, diamonds, etc. 
cooked until tender in consomm^, are served with flageolets. 

PEARL BARLEY 

(served in broths, CONSOMMEi ETC.) 

Cook three hours or longer, until tender, in boiling water, 
then drain and add to the soup. 



2i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

chicken liver balls 

(served in puree of chicken or consomme) 

4 ounces of chicken livers. 1-2 teaspoonful of fine-chopped 

The yolksof four eggs. parsley or other sweet herbs. 

Salt and pepper. 

Saut6 the livers ten minutes in melted butter, then pound 
and press through a sieve; add the seasoning and the yolks, 
form into small balls half an inch in diameter, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and saut^ in clarified butter, or fry in deep fat; drain on 
soft paper. 

PATE A CHOUX 

(served in broth or consomme) 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. A few grains of salt. 

1-4 a cup of broth or consomme. 1-4 a cup of flour. 
I large egg. 

Melt the butter in the broth; let boil and stir in the flour 
and salt; when the mixture separates from the pan (in stirring) 
remove from the fire and add the egg. Beat in thoroughly, 
then drop in round bits from a teaspoon into hot fat and fry 
to a delicate brown; drain and add to the soup when passed. 
They soften very quickly. Two tablespoonfuls of Parmesan 
cheese may be added before the egg, if desired. 

celery and lettuce 

(for consomme with timbales or alone, in cream soups, 
chicken puree, etc.) 

Cut half a cup of the white leaves of celery in small squares, 
or lettuce in fine shreds ; blanch, then cook in broth or water 
until tender; drain and add to the soup. Celery stalks may 
be cut in Julienne shreds, or in quarter-inch slices. 

QUENELLES FOR CONSOMME 

4 ounces of panada (1-2 a cup) . i egg. 

8 ounces of uncooked chicken, i tablespoonful of cream or white 

veal or game pulp (i cup) . sauce. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and pepper. 



PUFF PASTE CROUTONS 219 

For the panada cook the crumb of bread with milk, stirring 
constantly until it is smooth and forms- a ball. Scrape the 
pulp from the fibre of the meat, weigh or measure, add the 
panada and pound in the mortar, moistening with the butter, 
egg, and sauce, or cream, then pass through a sieve. Poach 
in small buttered moulds, or shape in after-dinner cofifee- 
spoons and poach directly in the water, or shape with forcing- 
bag and tube upon a buttered frying-pan; cover with hot 
water, and let stand until firm ; drain carefully before adding 
to the soup. These are not as delicate quenelles as may be 
made when more cream is used, but they are easily made. 
For others, see Quenelle and Cream Forcemeat under 
Entries. 

RECIPE FOR FLOUR PANADA 

I tablespoonf ul of butter. i-2acupof stock or water. 

1-2 a cup of flour. 

Prepare as pat^ k choux. 

GARNISHES FOR CREAM SOUPS 

Besides the garnishes .previoiisly given for cream soups one 
or two others might be noted. At hotels and restaurants, 
these soups are often garnished with croutons or bits of bread 
browned in butter. At the home-table, quite as often, the 
croutons are passed with the soup ; this gives an opportunity 
for cutting them in larger sizes. An attractive crouton, and 
one that can be eaten from the fingers, is cut three or four 
inches in length, and about three-eighths of an inch in width 
and thickness. Crackers split, the split side buttered and 
browned delicately in the oven, are also served with these 
soups. When croutons are served as a garnish, a spoonful 
should be sprinkled over the top of the soup after it is put 
into the individual plate, as their crispness is lost, if they be 
allowed to remain long in the soup. 

puff paste croutons 

(for puree of chicken, or game) 
Cut trimmings of puff-paste into pieces half an inch square 
and bake a delicate brown. Serve separately. 



CHAPTER VII 
Sauces 

" On devient cuisinier, on devient rotisseur, on nait sauciel-." 

— BrilLat-Savarin. 

This epigram of a famous French epicure, and our onetime 
Boston orchestra player, translated into English means: 
cooking and roasting can be taught, but it takes a genius to 
make a sauce. It is apt and to the point. Savarin in his 
"Meditations on Transcendent Gastronomy" wrote nothing 
more true. There is an indefinable daintiness and delicacy 
in the flavor and smoothness of a sauce when it is properly 
made, that only one endowed with fine sensibilities of taste 
can justly appreciate, and only such an one, save by some 
fortuitous accident, can hope to prepare a perfect sauce. En- 
trust the roasting of a carefully selected joint or fowl to an 
ordinary cook and, if she but understand and apply the sim- 
plest rules of cookery; your confidence will not have been 
misplaced and the most epicurean taste will be satisfied. 
But it is quite another matter when it comes to the prepara- 
tion of the sauce for the entree. 

The saucier must of necessity be dextrous in extracting 
and retaining volatile flavors ; she must be able to select those 
that will blend, one with the other, and produce a harmony ol 
savors adapted to the particular dish for which it is designed, 
and this adaptation of sauce to plat consists not only in the 
harmony, but often in the contrast of savors. Moreover, 
in the proper adaptation of a sauce, too Stfong flavors are to 
be moderated, weak but agreeable ones are to be brought out 
and accentuated, and dry, plain dishes are to be made moist 
and enriched. A perfect sauce is a promoter of digestion 

220 



SAUCES 221 

and an aid to nutrition; when a contrary effect is produced 
something is wrong with the sauce. 

One of the nice points, in making a sauce, is that of the 
temperature of the hquid that is added to the roux. A sauce 
of perfect flavor cannot be made by adding a hot Hquid to the 
hot roux. A cold liquid may be added at once, or, if the roux 
be cooled, a warm liquid may be used. In all cases it is safer 
to add the liquid gradually and with continuous stirring; 
an expert can add all the cold liquid at once. Then, too, 
entirely different results are secured by the manner in which 
the flavor of vegetables and the kitchen bouquet are added 
to the sauce. A higher and more pronounced, to some more 
agreeable, flavor is brought out, when these are cooked in the 
butter that is to be used in the roux, than when they are 
merely scalded in the liquid of the sauce. 

In menus we often see the dish Roast Beef au Jus. This 
French appellation is an inheritance from Roman times; jus 
was their word for sauce, but its meaning to-day is limited to 
the juice flowing from the roast or grill when it is cut. It 
corresponds to the English word gravy — platter gravy. The 
addition of hot water to beef gravy or fus gives bouillon. 

That the English formerly knew so little of sauces (com- 
pounds of juices, roux, Mirepoix, etc.) save that of melted 
butter, was occasioned, perhaps, by the fact that they did not 
feel the need of them. The essence extracted from joints of 
well-fed beef, mutton, and game was all sufficient. (Bread- 
sauce is, however, an English production.) 

The French, lacking rich, juicy provisions, were, in a meas- 
ure, compelled to increase the number of their sauces and 
bring to SL higher degree of perfection those that had been 
received as an inheritance. When one considers at random 
the six or seven hundred sauces described in French books of 
cookery and reads of glaze, mirepoix, blonde and brown roux, 
the subject seems qviite intricate ; but this is not the case. All 
sauces (as distinguished from gravies) are made consistent 
or given body by the addition of a thickening, or binding a.gent, 
or in French a liaison. Making this thickening the 'basis of 
division, we may consider 



222 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

r White 

1 . Sauces thickened by rotix s 

1^ Brown 

fHot. 

2. Sauces thickened by egg emulsion i 

[Cold. 

3. Independent sauces, or sauces belonging to no 

general class, marinades, etc. 

GoufE^ reduces the matter of sauces thickened with roux to 
lowest terms, when he refers to four fundamental sauces from 
which all others are made — viz: 

1. Espagnole. (Brown) 

2. Velout6. (White) 

3. Allemande. (Yellow, velout6 and egg.) 

4. Bechamel. (White, velout^ and cream.) 

In noting GoufE^'s fundamental sauces we see that Alle- 
mande and Bechamel have velout^ as their basis, so that in 
reality the subject of sauces, when it is reduced to its "lowest 
terms," would seem to centre round but two: Espagnole and 
velout6, or casting aside all apparent superfluities of flavoring, 
simmering, and skimming, to the simple economical and easily 
made brown and white sauces most generally used in this 
country in family cookery. With these simple sauces as a 
foundation all the different varieties of French sauces may be 
made, and these may be considered first under the head of 

I. SAUCES THICKENED WITH ROUX 

SIMPLE SAUCES 

All simple sauces are produced from roux, white, or blonde, 
or brown, salt, and pepper, and liquid, either cream, milk, 
water or stock. 

ROUX FOR SAUCES 

Roux, used to give body to sauce, is made with equal weights 
of flour and butter, or with half the weight of butter in flourj 
cooked together, for a white sauce, until the flour has been 
changed to dextrine, and for a brown sauce to caramel. To 



THICK WHITE SAUCE ■ 223 

•change the flour to dextrine for a white sauce, melt the butter 
in a small, smooth and perfectly clean saucepan; when it 
bubbles add the flour with salt and pepper and cook and stir 
until the mixture takes on a yellow appearance, from three to 
five minutes. When a brown sauce is desired, and the flour 
ig to be changed to dextrine and then to caramel, continue 
the cooking with constant stirring upon the top of the range — 
or it may be done with occasional stirring by setting the sauce- 
pan in the oven — until the mixture has acquired a russet brown 
or reddish color; this is roux proper, a white roux being one 
of the contradictions in cookery. When this has been done, 
let the roux cool by drawing it to another place on the range, 
add the liquid gradually and stir constantly. When all of 
the liquid has been added bring the sauce to boil vigorously, 
then remove to a cooler place and let simmer five minutes. 
Unless it be time to serve, let stand in hot water, covering it 
meanwhile to avoid the formation of film on the surface. If 
after standing the butter separates from the sauce giving an 
oily appearance, add a tablespoonful of cold liquid and stir 
constantly, until the mixture boils again. If a sauce be 
thicker than desired, add more liquid, if too thin, make a roux, 
let cool, and gradually add the sauce to it, 

WHITE SAUCK 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter (i ounce) i cup of milk or white stock. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour (1-2 ounce) 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of white pepper. 

CREAM SAUCE 

Use cream instead of milk and from one to two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, according to the thickness of the cream; other- 
wise, the same as white sauce. 

thick white sauce 

(for croquettes and similar mixtures) 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter, one-third a cup of flour, 

one cup of milk, or white stock, or cream and white stock 

combined. Use the same quantity of condiments and prepare 

as white sauce. 



324 PRACTICAL COOKING AND. SERVING 

VELOUTE SAUCE 

Same as white sauce, with white stock, preferably chicken, 
flavored with onion, celery, carrot, and a bouquet, as the 
liquid. 

ALX.EMANDE SAUCE 

To a pint of velout^ sauce add one-fourth a cup of mush- 
room, liquor, reduced by simmering to about a tablespoonful, 
mushrooms cut in halves, or chopped if desired, and the yolks of 
two eggs, beaten and mixed with one tablespoonful of creamed 
butter. Before adding the yolks and butter, remove the 
saucepan from the fire, let cool a moment 'or two, then add a 
little of the sauce to the eggs ; mix thoroughly, add more sauce, 
mix and return to the saucepan and stir over the fire a few 
moments without boiling. 

BECHAMEL 

Make a veloute sauce, using equal quantities of chicken 
stock and cream as the liquid. If the chicken stock has not 
been flavored with vegetables, etc., fry a generous tablespoon- 
ful of vegetables, carrot, onion, parsley, etc., in the butter, 
before adding the flour; do not, however, allow them to color: 
strain before serving. 

YELLOW BECHAMEL 

To a pint of sauce add, as in AUemande sauce, from two to 
four yolks of eggs, diluted with a tablespoonful of cream to 
each yolk. 

CHEESE SAUCE 

(for baked or boiled fish, or CHICKEN', BOILED CATJLI 

FLOWER, MACARONI, OR RICE WITH OR WITHOUT 

OYSTERS, OR BY THE OMISSION OF PART 

OF THE CREAM A FILLING FOR 

CHEESE patties) 

Let half a cup of Bechamel sauce, three-fourths a cup of 
cream, a dash of paprika and one-fourth a pound of Gruyere 



CELERY SAUCE 225 

or Cheddar cheese, cut into thin shaving?, stand over hot 
water, until the cheese is melted; stir until smooth and serve 
at once. A Welsh rarebit, made rather thin, is often used as 
a sauce. 

WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE (CANNED MUSHROOMS) 

To a pint of velout^ sauce add a generous half-cup of mush- 
rooms, cut in halves or chopped. Do not let boil after the 
mushrooms are added. 

VELOUTE SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH 

Use the water in which the fish was cooked, fish-stock, in 
making the usual velout^ sauce; cook a bay leaf,, a slice of 
onion, and part of a carrot with the fish, or fry the vegetables 
in the butter used for the roux. The ordinary velout6 sauce 
made with veal and chicken-stock may, also, be used with the 
fish. For egfg-sauce, add two hard-boiled eggs cut in slice-'. 

ASPARAGUS SAUCE (BROILED CHICKEN OR FISH> 

Pass a cup of cooked asparagus-tips through a sievfe atjd 
add to a pint of velout^ sauce. Heat to the boiling point, 
add salt and pepper and, if desired, the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. 

soubise sauce 

(for lamb, mutton or pork chops) 
Slice four onions, cover with cold water and drair, after boil- 
ing five minutes ; let cook with two stalks of parsley in boiling 
water tmtil very soft, pass through a sieve and add to a cup of 
white sauce made with cream, or milk, or add to a cup ol 
velout^ sauce. 

celery sauce 

(for boiled fowl) 

Boil a cup of celery, cut in bits, in salted water until tender; 
drain and add to a cup of white sauce made with cream or 
milk scalded with celery leaves, or use half a cup of cream and 
half a cup of the water in which the celery was cooked. 



2 26 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cauliflower sauce 

(for boiled fowl) 

To a pint of white sauce made with iriilk or cream, or to a 
pint of velout^ sauce, add a generous cup of cooked cauhflower 
flowerets ; reheat and when ready to serve beat in a teaspoon- 
ful of butter and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

TOMATO SAUCE (WHITE) 

To a pint of velout^ sauce add half a cup of tomato pur^e. 
For the purde, let simmer a generous cup of strained tomato 
pulp until reduced one-half. Or make a white sauce, using 
half a cup, each, of milk and tomato pur^e as the liquid. A 
few grains less than one-fourth a teaspoonful of soda may be 
added with the tomato. Scald the milk with a slice of onion, 
a stalk of celery, and a bit of bay leaf. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Cook a can of tomatoes, half an onion with a clove in it, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a stalk of celery, a sprig of parsley, 
and a bay leaf twenty minutes: strain and cool. For each 
cup of putde make a white foux with two. tablespoonfuls, 
each, of butter and flour; then when cool add the purde and 
half a teaspoonful of meat extract ; or use part stock and part 
pur^e. A tomato sauce is usually made quite thick, almost a 
pur6e. If the tomato pulp be thin, use more flour in the roux. 

CURRY SAUCE 

1 -4 a cup of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped onion . 
1-4 a cup of flour. 2 cups of milk or 

2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder, i cup of milk and 
1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. i cup of white stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Cook the onion in the butter without browning; add the 
flour, curry-powder, and salt mixed together; let cook three 
or four minutes, add the liquid, the currant-jelly, and the 
lemon juice ; strain and reheat. When convenient use cocoa- 
nut, or almond-milk. To prepare, let half a cup or more of 



HORSERADISH SAUCE 227 

blanched almonds, or cocoanut, chopped and pounded in a 
mortar, stand in a cup and a half of hot milk an hour or more. 
Keep the milk hot, then strain through a cloth, pressing, out 
the liquid from the nuts. 

cheese sauce 

(for halibut or other white fish, baked) 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 3-4 a cup of milk. 

I tablespoonful of cornstarch. 1-2 a pound of grated cheese. 

I egg. Salt, mustard and cayenne to taste 

Make a sauce of the first three ingredients; add the cheese 
and seasonings and stir until melfed; add a beaten egg and 
serve as soon as the egg is blended with the sauce ; do not let 
boil after the cheese is added. 

OYSTER SAUCE 

(for boiled fowl or fish, baked fish, fish timbales, etc.) 

Scald a dozen and a half of oysters in their own liquor; 
skim carefully, drain and keep hot. When ready to serve, 
add to a pint of white sauce made with a cup, each, of strained 
oyster broth and milk or cream. Or add to a pint' of velout^ 
sauce. Onion, celery, and carrot, a bay leaf, etcj, may be 
scalded in the milk. Also add a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
if desired. 

LOBSTER SAUCE, NO. i 

(for boiled fish, fish timbales, etc.) 
To a cup and a half of velout^ made with chicken or lobster 
stock, or of white sauce made with milk or cream, or part lobster 
or fish stock, add half a cup of lobster meat cut in cubes, and 
if convenient, beat in a tablespoonful of lobster butter, add 
also a dash of paprika and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
Shrimp sauce may be made in the same way. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

To a cup of velcut^ sauce add one-fourth a cup of hot cream 
and one-third a cup of fresh-grated horseradish ; let heat with- 
out boiling. 



22& PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BUTTER SAUCE (DRAWN OR MELTED BUTTER) 

1-3 a cup of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper 

[ cup of water. 

Use half the butter with the flour in making the roux : when 
ready to serve, beat in the rest of the butter, a small piece at 
a time. As in making all sauces thickened with roux, cook 
the flour thoroughly before adding any of the liquid. The 
feature of this sauce is the addition of the butter, little by 
little, after the completion of the cooking. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

(for fish) 

To a pint of butter sauce add from one-fourth to one-half 
a cup of chopped cucumber pickles. 

CAPER SAUCE 

(for boiled fish and mutton) 

To a pint of butter sauce add from one-fourth to half a cup 
of capers. 

egg sauce 

(for boiled fish) 

To a pint of butter sauce add two or three hard-boiled eggs 
cut in one-fourth inch slices, or chopped rather coarsely. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE 

(for fish) 

Pound the flesh of four anchovies with two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a mortar; stir into a cup of butter-sauce, pass 
through a sieve, reheat and add the juice of half a lemon. 

german sauce 

(for baked fish, especially shad) 

To a pint of butter-sauce add the juice of half a lemon and 
half a cup of fine-chopped cooked spinach; strain a part of 



BROWN TOMATO SAUCE 229 

the sauce over the fish and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. 
Do not strain out the spinach; use a sieve and pass the spinach 
through it. The beaten yolks of two eggs may be added with 
the last of the butter. 

, BROWN SAUCE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 

I cup of brown stock. 

Prepare a brown roux, being careful not to bum the butter 
and flour; add the stock gradually. 

BROWN SAUCE NO. 2 

I tablespoonful of fine bits of onion. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. ' 

I tablespoonful of fine bits of carrot. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

I sprig of parsley. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I sprig of thyme. 1-4 a teaspoonful of pepper. 

Piece erf bay leaf. i cup of brown stock. 

Cook the vegetables and herbs in the butter until a russet 
brown; add the flour (an extra tablespoonful is used, as flour 
loses its thickening quality to some extent when changed to 
caramel) and brown; then add the stock gradually. Strain 
before using. Flour already browned for sauces may be 
purchased at first-class groceries. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE 

(for beefsteaks, fillets of beef, etc.) 

To one cup of brown sauce add one-third a cup of canned 
button-mushrooms, whole or cut in halves. Fresh mush- 
rooms need be cleaned and peeled, then sauted in butter, or 
simmered in water until tender, before they are added to the 
sauce. 

brown tomato sauce 

(for beefsteak, cannelon of beef, macaroni, etc.) 

Take either recipe for brown sauce, using half the liquid 
of brown stock and half of tomato pulp, measured after stew- 
ing and straining. 



230 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

olive sauce 

(for roast duck) 

Cover a dozen olives with boiling water and let stand half 
an hour on the back of the range. Pare them round and 
round and remove the stone ; add to a pint of brown sauce, 
then let simmer five or six minutes. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE 

(for boiled beef) 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped shallot 1-4 a cup of butter. 

or very mild onion. 1-3 a cup of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of fine-chopped 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

parsley. 2 cups of brown stock. 

Cayenne to taste. 

Cook the shallot with the butter and vinegar until the 
butter looks clear and brown, when the shallot will have 
absorbed the vinegar. Then add the flour and pepper, salt, 
if needed, and let cook until brown; add the stock gradually 
and, just before serving, the parsley and gherkins. 

currant-jelly sauce 
(for rechauffes of venison, mutton and lamb) 

Add to a cup of brown sauce, made by the first recipe, one- 
fourth a cup of currant-jelly and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. 

SAUCE VILLEROI 

(for oysters, eggs VILLEROI, AND FOR COATING COLD 

FILLETS, OR OTHER MEATS THAT ARE TO 

BE HEATED BEFORE SERVING 

To a cup of white or brown sauce made in the usual manner 
add (after removing from the fire) the yolks of two eggs beaten 
with one-fourth a cup of cream or milk. Cook over hot 
water, stirring constantly, until the sauce is quite stiff. When 
the sauce begins to cool, pour it over the articles to be served 
villeroi style, or the articles may be rolled in the sauce, 



REFERRING TO SAUCES 231 

Chopped mushrooms and parsley are often mixed with the 
sauce. 

chaudfroid sauce 

(for covering cold galantine of fowl, boiled or braised 

TONGUES, sweetbreads, ETC., THAT ARE TO 
BE SERVED COLD) 

To a pint of brown or white sauce made in the usual way 
and while still hot, add half a box, or one ounce of gelatine 
that has been soaked in cold water until soft. Stir until the 
gelatine has dissolved; then strain and use as soon as it begins 
to stiffen. Use a spoon and silver knife to spread the sauce, 
and fill uneven places on the surface of the article with sauce 
before beginning to cover the same, so that the dish when 
finished may present a smooth even surface. The article to 
be covered should be chilled on ice before the sauce is spread 
upon it. Use tomato sauce when a red color is desired. If 
a yellow color be the choice, add three or four beaten yolks of 
eggs, just as the sauce is removed from the fire. 

Flour has been used as the starchy ingredient of roux, but 
cornstarch or arrowroot may be used, keeping in mind that, 
as cornstarch has about twice the capacity of flour as a thicken- 
ing agent and arrowroot even greater capacity, the quantity 
must be diminished accordingly. 

REFERRING TO SAUCES 

Butter and other fats when heated attain a high degree of 
temperature and in them starchy materials are cooked very 
qtiickly; but fats at a high temperature undergo certain 
changes that render them difficult of digestion, so that sauces 
prepared with roux are not suitable for children) or convales- 
cents. For these it is better to prepare a sauce by one of the 
following methods: heat the stock, or water, to the boiling 
point (if milk be used, scald it over hot water), then dilute 
the butter, flour, and seasonings creamed together with a 
little of the hot liquid, stir until smooth, then stir and cook 
in the rest of the hot liquid ten or fifteen minutes. Or dilute 
the flour and seasonings with cold liquid to pour, and stir into 



232 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the boiling liquid, adding a little butter after the sauce is 
cooked, if desirable. 

FINE SAUCES 

Under the name of fine sauces, the two fundamental French 
sauces are to be noted. There are two points wherein these 
sauces differ from the simple white and brown sauces, that are 
the fundamental sauces in the ordinary family cuisine, viz.: 
the character of the liquid used, and the final removal of the 
butter used in the roux. In the recipes for simple sauces, 
stock is used. In families of ordinary size there is usually 
material enough in the flank-ends of steak, the trimmings from 
chops, the bones from roasts of beef and fowl, the heads and 
trimmings from fish, and the body-bones from lobsters, to fur- 
nish all the stock needed for sauces. But the more carefully 
selected these materials are, the better the stock and, con- 
sequently, the sauce will be. Nor will bones and fat meat 
alone suffice, there must be the proper proportion of raw lean 
meat. The stock used in Espagnole sauce is not made of odds 
and ends, but of beef and veal, that in velout^, of veal and 
chicken. Espagnole and veloutd sauce maigre are made of 
any suitable white fish. 

ESPAGNOLE SAUCE 

Butter a stew-pan and put in two small onions, sliced; 
upon these place three pounds of veal from the fillet and one 
pound of beef from the neck, or round ; moisten with a cup of 
"general" stock made without fowl and let boil until the 
stock is half reduced. Now, do not neglect the meat, but 
let simmer gently, turning frequently until it is of an even, 
bright brown color. The caramel flavor produced by thus 
glazing the meat is one of the features of French sauces. The 
glazing must be arrested as soon as a bright brown color is 
attained; for, if the glaze becomes dark brown in color, the 
sauce will be bitter. When the meat is glazed, remove from 
the fire, and let stand, covered, five minutes ; this will facilitate 
the dissolving of the glaze. Now pour in three quarts of 
general stock, bring to the boiling point and add a carrot, 
cut small, half a tablespoonful of salt, and half a bay leaf, 



SAUCE SUPREME 233 

and a sprig of thyme tied in a sprig or two of parsley; let 
simmer until the meat is, tender, then remove to serve as 
bouilli, or for use in ''made dishes." Strain and cool the 
stock. Make a brown roux with one cup of clarified butter 
and two cups of flour; add the stock in the usual manner. 
After all is added and the sauce is boiling, remove to the back 
of the range, and let simmer two hours with the saucepan 
partly covered. Skim off the fat twice during this period. 
At the end of two hours remove the fat a third time, strain 
the sauce and set aside for use. Butter loses its. flavor in 
cooking, and it is used in all sauces thickened with roux simply 
as a medium in which to cook starch to dextrine or caramel. 
The removal of this butter, which has served its purpose, gives 
the smooth velvety appearance that distinguishes the simple 
from the fine sauces. 

VELOUTE SAUCE 

3 povmds of fillet of veal. i carrot. 

I chicken (fillets of breast removed Salt and pepper, 

if desired.) i cup of butter. 

I onion. 2 cups of flour. 

4 quarts of general Stock (white meat) . 

Prepare as Espagnole sauce, but without glazing the meat, 
or browning the flour. In large establishments, where a 
variety in sauces is called for, by simply adding to these funda- 
mental sauces the essence of mushrooms, game, or chicken, 
glaze of some particular kind and mirepoix, i.e., vegetable 
glaze, any kind of sauce desired is produced at short notice; 
as, for instance : 

SAUCE SUPREME 

I quart of fine velout6 sauce. 
1-2 a cup of essence of chicken. 
1-2 a cup of essence of mushrooms. 

Let the ingredients come to the boiling point and simmer 
half an hour, then skim. 



2 34 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ESSENCE OF CHICKEN 

Essences are used to flavor and dilute the fundamental 
sauces; the various essences of fowl, game, etc. are all pre- 
pared in the same way. Remove the breasts and legs from 
three chickens and set aside for other use; disjoint the rest, 
add to the result a pound of veal, an onion with a clove in it, 
half a carrot, a kitchen bouquet and three pints of chicken 
consomm^; let simmer until the meat is done. Use the 
meat in made dishes ; strain the essence and set aside ; skim 
off the fat before using. 

ESSENCE OF MUSHROOMS 

In a closed sauce pan put a pound of cleaned mushrooms, 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and a teaspoonful of salt, 
over the fire ; let stand five minutes, then add a pint of chicken 
consomm^; let boil about eight minutes; strain and set aside. 
The mushrooms may he added to a salpicon of chicken, or 
oysters. 

MIREPOIX 

I pound of veal. 2 onions. 

1-2 a potind of bacon. 2 bay leaves. 

1 pound of ham. i sprig of thyme. 

2 carrots. 2 shallots. 

2 1-2 quarts of general stock. 

Put the meat and vegetables, all cut in small pieces, into 

a frjdng-pan and fry to a light brown color; add the stock, 

let boil up once, then simmer two hours ; strain and set away 

for use. 

GLAZE 

Meat, game, or fish glaze is added to certain fine sauces to 
finish them; glaze is also much used to give a glossy, shiny 
appearance to joints, baked fish and entries. A meat glaze 
is used for baked sweetbreads, and gives to them a 
very inviting appearance. For household use it may be 
prepared by reducing a strong, cleared stock, either white 
or brown, one-fourth. Simmer in an open saucepan until it 
has the consistency of a sauce. When cold it will be solid 



NONPAREIL SAUCE 235 

and somewhat elastic. "When ready to use, heat over hot 
water and apply with a brush, or baste the article to be glazed 
with a spoon. 

sauces thickened with egg emulsion 

(hot sauces) 

hollandaise sauce 

(for boiled or baked fish, fish timbales, asparagus, 
cauliflower, etc.) 
1-2 a cup of butter. A few grains of cayenne. 

Yolks of two to four eggs. 1-2 a cup of boiling water. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. The juice of half a lemon. 

' With a small wooden spoon cream the butter; add the 
yolks of the eggs, one at a time, and beat into the butter 
thoroughly; add the salt, cayenne, and water and cook in a 
double-boiler, stirring constantly, until the sauce thickens; 
then add the lemon juice and remove from the fire. The 
number of yolks depends upon the consistency desired in the 
sauce. Lift the saucepan from the water from time to time, 
lest the sauce be curdled by overcooking. With two egg- 
yolks the sauce should be creamy, with four, about the con- 
sistency of mayonnaise sauce. 

LOBSTER OR SHRIMP SAUCE, NO. z 

To the recipe for Hollandaise sauce add half a cup of lobster 
meat cut in cubes, or shrimps picked in pieces and also, if at 
hand, a tablespoonful of lobster butter, (see page 242.) 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

Prepare a Hollandaise sauce according to recipe previously 
given; add a raw cucumber cut in dice. 

NONPAREIL SAUCE 

Tint a pint of Hollandaise sauce with lobster butter; then 
add the meat from the claws of a lobster, the poached white 
of an egg and six or eight canned or cooked mushrooms, all 
cut into cubes. 



236 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



COLBERT SAUCE 

1-3 a cup strong consomm^ or 1-2 a tablespoonful of chopped 

chicken stock. parsley. 

The yolks of two eggs. 1-2 a tablespoonful of chopped 
1-2 a cup of butter. tarragon. 

The juice of half a lemon. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Melt the consommd; when heated add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs and stir and cook over hot water until the sauce is 
thickened slightly. Add the butter in small bits to the sauce 
while cooking. Before taking from the fire add the herbs and 
salt. 

mousseline sauce 
(for asparagus and cauliflower) 

1-2 a cup of butter. 2 tablespoonfiils of lemon juice. 

The yolks of four eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-4 a cup of thick cream. A fe'w grains of cayenne. 

Make as HoUandaise sauce, using cream in place of water, 
but reserving half the butter to add in bits at the last. 

BERNAISE SAUCE 
(for broiled steak and fillets of beef) 
2 tablespoonfuls of chopped shallot The yolks of three eggs. 
2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 1-2 a cup of butter. 

A few grains of cayenne. i tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Cook the shallot with the vinegar until nearly all the vinegar 
is absorbed : add the yolks and a small piece of the butter, and 
let cook over hot water, adding the butter in small pieces, 
then add the seasonings. This sauce has about the consistency 
of mayonnaise sauce. It may be used either hot or cold. 

FRENCH SAUCE 

Make a Bemaise sauce, using one cup of butter in all and 
additional salt and pepper: add to the sauce while mixing one- 
fourth a cup of thick tomato pur6e that has been pasSed 
through a very fine sieve ; finish the sauce with one tablespoon- 
ful of chicken glaze, one tablespoonful of fine-chopped pars- 
ley, and, if desired, a tablespoonful of reduced chili vinegar. 



MAKING OF MAYONNAISE DRESSING 237 

cold sauces 

mayonnaise sauce 

(for salads and cold meats) 

A few grains of cayenne or paprika, i pint of olive oil. 
1-2 ateaspoonful of salt. 2 tablespoonfulsof lemon juice. 

The yolks of two raw eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

I teaspoonful of powdered sugar and 1-2 a teaspoonful of mustard if 
desired. 

Mix the salt and paprika, and add the yolks of egg, which 
should be fresh; beat with a wooden spoon until the ingredients 
are well mixed and the yolks thickened slightly ; add a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice or vinegar and when well blended with the 
other ingredients add the oil drop by drop, beating constantly. 
When several teaspponfuls of oil have been added, a small 
Dover egg-beater may be used in place of the wooden spoon, 
or silver fork, and the oil may be added faster. When the 
mixture becomes too thick to beat well, add a little of the 
acid, then more oil and so on, alternately, until all the ingred- 
ients are used. Add more seasoning if needed. Tarragon 
vinegar is preferable to cider vinegar for some salads. 

SUGGESTIONS REGARDING THE MAKING OF MAYON- 
NAISE DRESSING 

If the yolks do not thicken when beaten with the condi- 
ments, but seem very thin, they will not thicken when the 
ml is added, and it is better to discard these and try others. 
The teaspoonful of acid, added to the yolks before the addition 
of oil, lessens the liability of the mixture to curdle. This fact 
may be due simply to the increased quantity of material to 
which the oil is added. Experts think that the eggs, bowl, 
spoon and oil should be of the same temperature as the room 
in which the dressing is to be afterwards served. In practice, 
it is safer for a beginner to have the utensils and ingredients 
chilled slightly before beginning operations. Some few let 
the bowl in which the mixing is to be done stand in a dish 
of ice and water during the mixing. If the dressing becomes 
curdled, break a yolk of egg into another bowl, then add to 



238 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

this the curdled dressing, little by little, until all has been 
added, then continue with the oil. Only one yolk of egg need 
be used as the foundation of the sauce, but when two are 
used, there is less liability of the sauce separating. In mak- 
ing a .large quantity of mayonnaise, cut down the number 
of yolks one-half or even less, but retain the same proportions 
of the other ingredients. 

WHITE MAYONNAISE SAUCE 

Prepare the mayonnaise with lemon juice instead of vine- 
gar, and when ready to serve fold into a dressing made of one 
pint of oil, a cup of whipped cream, and a few grains of salt 
and pepper. Use double cream ; whip until solid and measure 
after whipping. 

green mayonnaise 

(for fish and cold lamb) 

Cook together a cup of peas, two or three leaves, each, of 
mint and lettuce, a root of spinach, and a sprig of parsley, 
until the peas are tender. Drain and press through a fine 
sieve. If the pulp be moist, cook and stir until dry. When 
cold add to mayonnaise dressing, using such quantity as is 
needed to secure the tint desired. Omit the mint leaves, 
when the sauce is for fish. 

RED MAYONNAISE 

Cook a can of tomato pur^e — cooked tomatoes strained — 
until reduced to two tablespoonfuls. Add when cold to 
mayonnaise dressing, using such quantity as is needed to se- 
cure the desired tint. 

JELLY MAYONNAISE 

To a cup of mayonnaise dressing beat in gradually from 
two tablespoonfuls to one-third a cup of chilled but liquid 
aspic-jelly, (see page 273). 

SAUCE TARTARE 

To a pint of mayonnaise sauce, made with tarragon vinegar 
and mustard, add a shallot chopped fine, one-fourth a cup, 



BOILED SALAD DRESSING 239 

each, of fine-chopped capers, olives, and cucumber pickles, 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, and half a teaspoonful 
of powdered tarragon. Half a teaspoonful of onion juice 
may take the place of the shallot. 

COOKED SAUCE FOR CHICKEN SALAD (MRS. ARMS, OHIO) 

1-2 a cup of well reduced chicken 1-2 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

stock. 

1-2 a cup of vinegar. Yolks of five eggs. 

1-4 a cup of mixed mustard. 1-2 a cup of oil. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a Cup of sweet cream. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the salt, pepper and mustard; 
cook over hot water in the chicken stock and vinegar, until the 
mixture coats the spoon. When cold and ready to serve beat 
the oil into the sauce with a whisk and fold in the cream beaten 
stiff with a Dover egg-beater. Less mustard may be used. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING (ANNlE P. DOUGHTY, BOSTON) 

I tablespoonful of mustard. i cup of vinegar. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. i cup of sweet or sour cream. 

1-4 a cup of butter. 3 beaten eggs. 

_ I tablespoonful of salt. A few grains of cayenne. 

Cream together the butter, sugar, and spices; add the 
beaten eggs and cook in the hot cream; when the ,mixture 
begins to thicken, add the vinegar, a few drops at a time, until 
all is used. Beat the mixture constantly and remove from 
the water, occasionally, to avoid overheating. 

boiled salad dressing 

(for tomatoes, cauliflower, meat or fish) 

Mix one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth a teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, and a few grains of cayenne. Add the yolks 
of two eggs and the white of one ; beat until well mixed, then 
add four tablespoonfuls of butter and three-fourths a cup of 
sweet cream. Stir and cook over hot water until thickened 
slightly, then gradually add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 
set aside to become thoroughly chilled. 



240 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

prussian sauce (mrs. whbelock, minneapolis) 

(for hot and cold meats) 
1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a cup of German prepared 

1-2 a cup of butter. mustard. 

1-2 a cup of white sour wine. 1-2 a cup of yolks of eggs. 

1-2 a cup of vinegar. 1-2 a cup of broth or water. 

1-43 teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix and heat all the ingredients, except the eggs, in a double 
boiler, over the fire; beat the eggs, dilute with the hot mix- 
ture, and cook in the saucepan until like cream, beating the 
mixture constantly. 

UNCLASSIFIED SAUCES 

BREAD SAUCE 

1-2 a cup of fine, stale breadcrumbs. 1-23 teaspoonful of salt. 

I onion stuck with six cloves. 1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

T pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cook the breadcrumbs with all the ingredients, except the 
butter, about an hour in a double boiler. When ready to 
serve, remove the onion and cloves, add the butter and beat 
thoroughly. Pour over roast birds or egg timbales, then 
sprinkle the whole with breadcrumbs browned in butter. The 
breadcrumbs may be prepared by pressing pieces of bread 
from the centre of the loaf through a colander. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE, COLD 

(for broiled fish) 
Pare and grate two cucumbers; drain, season with salt, 
cayenne, and vinegar or lemon juice. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

(for roast and boiled beef, etc.) 
To the recipe for bread sauce add half a cup of fresh- 
grated horseradish just before removing from the fire. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

Scald one pint of cream; add one^-fourth a cup of fresh- 
grated horseradish and half a teaspoonful of salt; mix and 
serve. 



MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 241 

HORSERADISH SAUCE NO. 2 

(for fish-balls, fish, -MEAT, ETC.) 

Scald half a cup of fresh-grated horseradish in a cup of stock, 
or water; dilute three beaten egg yolks with a cup of cream 
and cook in the first mixture until the spoon becomes coated ; 
add half a teaspoonful of salt. 

cherry sauce 

(for lamb) 

Cook a pint of cherries in a pint of water with two cloves 
until soft ; pass through a sieve, return the pulp and juice to 
the fire, and, when boiling, pour little by little over two table- 
spoonfuls of flour beaten into two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
return to the fire and cook five or six minutes after boiling 
begins; add a few grains of salt and the juice of a lemon. 
Serve hot. 

MINT SAUCE 

(for lamb) 

I bunch of mint. The jtiice of one lemon or 

1 -4 a cup of boiling water. 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. A few grains of cayenne. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Chop the leaves from the bunch of mint very fine ; pdur over 
the water, add the sugar, cover closely, and let stand in a cool 
place half an hour; then add the lemon juice or vinegar. If 
lemon juice be used, omit half of the sugar. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

(for broiled meats or fish) 

Cream one-fourth a cup of butter; add half a teaspoonful 
of salt, a dash of pepper, half a tablespoonful of fine-chopped 
parsley, and three-fourths a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
very slowly. The heat of the meat or fish will dissolve the 
butter. 



242 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ANCHOVY BUTTER 

(for mackerel or other fish broiled, or to ADD TO A 
MELTED BUTTER SAUCE FOR FISH) 

Cream half a cup of butter; add to it, gradually, two table- 
spoonfuls of essence of anchovies and the juice of half a lemon. 
Remove the fish to a warm platter, spread the anchovy butter 
over the fish, and garnish with slices of lemon dipped in 
chopped parsley. 

LOBSTER BUTTER 

(for halibut or OTHER WHITE FISH, BROILED, OR TO ADD 

TO MELTED BUTTER TO SERVE WITH FISH, OR TO MASK 

A FISH TO BE SERVED COLD) 

Pound the spawn of a lobster with half a pound of butter 
and pass it through a very fine sieve; season with salt and 
pepper and set aside for use. 

GREEN BUTTER 

(same USE AS LOBSTER BUTTEr) 

1-4 a pound of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of very fine- 

1-8 a peck of spinach. chopped parsley. 

2 teaspoonfuls of very fine-chopped capers. 

Press the spinach, boiled and drained thoroughly, through 
a cheesacloth. Beat the butter to a cream, gradually, add the 
spinach, parsley, and capers. 

black butter (buerre noir) 
(for fish, poached eggs, etc.) 

Cook half a cup (four ounces) of fresh table butter in a fry- 
ing-pan until it assumes a deep golden color, skim, cook a 
moment or two longer, then pour off the top, discarding the 
dark sediment. This is also made with parsley, a tablespoon- 
ful of leaves, washed, dried, and divided into, tiny bits, being 
added for each ounce of butter. Add the parsley when the 
butter begins to color; cook until the parsley is crisp. 



APPLE SAUCE WITH HORSERADISH 243 

CLARIFIED BUTTER 

(for boiled fish, asparagus, cauliflower, etc.) 

Put half a pound of butter in a saucepan over a slow fire, 
let boil very gently, skimming occasionally, for about half an 
hour without discoloring, then pour the clear liquid from the 
sediment. 

marinade (gouffe) 

(to marinate beef a la mode, breast of mutton, 
chops, etc.) 
T pound of raw ham, half lean, half fat, cut in pieces; put into a 

frying pan with — 
4 bay leaves. 6 ounces of carrots. 

I sprig of thyme. 2 ounces of parsley. 

6 ovmces of onions (2 small onions) . 2 cloves of garlic. 
6 ounces of butter. (3-4 a cup of oil may be used) . 

Cook together, stirring, meanwhile, to prevent burning; then 
add two quarts, each, of water and vinegar; let boil about 
two minutes ; add three ounces (about one-third a cup) of salt 
and one ounce (two tablespoonfuls) of pepper, and store in 
fruit jars, 

CHANTILLY APPLE SAUCE WITH HORSERADISH 

(for ducks and geese, particularly young ducks 

AND goslings) 

Cook a pound (five apples of medium size) of apples, cored 
and quartered, with a very little hot water (they need be quite 
dry when cooked) and pass through a fine sieve; add to the 
pulp two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one-fourth a cup 
of grated horseradish and, when mixed together, fold in an 
equal bulk of whipped cream. 

english apple sauce with horseradish 

(for salted and smoked meats) 

Prepare as before, having the apple-pulp very dry; omit 
the cream and add the juice of one or two oranges, then reheat 
without boiling. 



CHAPTER Vlir 

Complex Meat and Fish Dishes: Entrees, 
Rechauffes, etc. 

" It was a rye loaf, or rather a pye made in the form of a loaf, for 
it enclosed some satoon highly seasoned with pepper." — Cook. 

An entree is a dish served at dinner or luncheon between 
the regular courses. Some entries are served hot and others, 
from preference, cold or iced. As entries are served from the 
side, they are often shaped in individual portions; if not so 
shaped, they are separated into portions before they are 
passed. Meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, and, occasionally, fruit 
may form the foundation of an entree. Uncooked meat or fish 
is often used in these dishes, but there is no place in cookery, 
where the cook has such an opportunity to display her skill, 
as in the preparation of entries from materials left over from 
other dishes. As meats and fish lose flavor in recooking, 
broth or stock to heighten flavor is almost a sine qua non, 
both in the composition of the dish itself and in the sauce with 
which it is served. Standard broth gives the best results, 
but broth carefully made from odds and ends of well-selected 
material is not to be despised. As a means to this same end 
the appropriate use of celery-salt or pepper, curry-powder, 
tabasco-sauce, a "faggot," onion, and marinades are to be 
commended. But, in reality, success in this branch of the 
culinary art depends largely upon the manner in which the 
fundamental ingredients are handled, and especially is this 
the case in the compositicm of rechauffes. 

Meat or fish that has once been cooked must of necessity 
be treated thereafter most delicately. As for these the process 
is one of reheating, further cooking needs be avoided. It is 
well to remember the following items: 

244 



COMPLEX DISHES, ETC. 245 

(ist) That whenever vegetable, sauce, etc., is to be added 
to cooked fish or meat, it must be thoroughly cooked before 
being combined with these ingredients for reheating. ■^ 

(2nd) That cooked proteid substance while reheating must 
be protected in some way from direct contact with the heat 
of the oven, fat or fire: as, for instance, with sauce, buttered 
crumbs, egg and breadcrumbs, pastry cases, etc. 

(3rd) That the more finely these cooked substances be 
divided, the shorter the time needed in reheating and the 
more readily will they absorb sauce or whatever is to give 
them flavor. 

(4th) That all bone, gristle, unsightly or unedible portions 
need be carefully trimmed away before cooked fish or meat 
is chopped or otherwise divided. 

(Sth) That, in chopping, the material is to be cut into tan- 
gible bits, not mashed, and, in slicing or cutting into cubes, the 
divisions are to be uniformly and neatly made. 

For convenience and to insure a better understanding of 
the subject, hot entrees may be considered under four div- 
isions, and the various cold entries, such as chaudfroids, 
aspics, etc. in a class by themselves, as: 

1. Simple salpicon (ragout) mixtures, or chopped mixtures 
(either uncooked or rechauff^). Served in borders, ,etc. 

2. Salpicon or chopped mixtures, enclosed when cold in 
egg and breadcrumbs, pastry, batter, etc., and fried, as 
croquettes, rissoles, fritters, kromeskis. 

3. Purees of meat or fish mixed with different proportions 
of egg, cream or sauce, panard, etc., to form souffles, creams, 
quenelles, mousses, etc. 

4. Dishes composed of small pieces of solid meat trimmed 
to uniform shapes and sizes, as fillets, cutlets, supremes, etc. 

5. Cold entries, as chaudfroids, aspics, etc. 

There are several utensils that simplify to a great extent 
the making of entries. The first in importance is a sharp 
knife of suitable size, then follows a chopping knife, a meat- 
chopper, a mortar and pestle, and a pur^e sieve and wooden 
spoon. But, in accordance with the bon-mot of Motley, one 
might be inclined to do without a sharp knife or a chopping- 



246 PRACTICAL COOKING AND- SERVING 

knife, to indulge in the luxury of a meat-chopper, if anything 
so useful and saving of time and strength can be called a 
luxury.' 

In selecting sharp knives of various sizes, the best French 
knives are the cheapest in the end. If a knife will not take 
and hold an edge, it is worthless. The "quick cut " chopping- 
knives made in Canton, Ohio, on account of their shape, are 
easily cleansed and have more cutting surface than those of 
other make. They are made, of good steel. In meat-choppers, 
one that cuts clean rather than crushes the meat is the kind 
to purchase. Some machines are so made that with them 
meat may be cut in Ikrge or small pieces. The knife of the 
Enterprise chopper may be resharpened or an old knife re- 
placed by a new. Pur^e sieves come in different sizes; the 
size of mesh in the sieve cloth varies according to' the use for 
which it is designed. A sieve with twenty-eight holes to the 
linear inch is needed for sifting icing sugar. A twelve-mesh 
sieve, or twelve-holes to the linear inch, is adapted to sifting 
purees and marmalades, and an eight-mesh for breadcrumbs. 



SALPICON OR CHOPPED MIXTURES SERVED PLAIN 
OR IN BORDERS, ETC. 

These mixtures (see Salpicon, Chapter IV) may be prepared 
of one or several kinds of meat. In addition, a few bits of 
cooked ham or bacon, also calves', lambs' or chickens' liver 
may be included at discretion. We may have also a brown 
or a white mixture. The proportions are one cup of sauce 
to each half-pound (one cup, solid measure) of meat or fish. 
In detail, for a brown mixture, peel and chop fine half a small 
onion (slice of larger size is enough) and a mushroom if con- 
venient; saut^ in two tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping 
(that from the top of the soup-kettle preferred), until lightly 
browned; sprinkle in two tablespoonfuls of flour and con- 
tinue cooking until of a light brown color, then add gradually 
one cup of stock or water, beating the sauce smooth between 
each addition of liquid ; let boil five minutes, then, when the 




CYLIXURICAL AND BORDER MOULDS. 
Shell, ti'iilialc, tiniKi-T-' miii-isse and ctitlut moulils. 




PUREE SIEVES AND PESTLE 





QUICK CUT CHUPPING KNIFE AND ENTERPRISE 
MEAT CHOPPER 



TURKEY RECHAUFFE . 247 

sauce has cooled a little, add the meat chopped or divided 
according to the directions given at the beginning of the chap- 
ter, and reheat without boiling. If the meat be in slices, and 
particularly if it be lamb, mutton or venison, it may stand to 
advantage in a marinade (see Chapter IV, page 28) an hour 
or two before reheating. Then use the strained marinade as 
a part of the liquid of the sauce. 

When a curried dish is called for, saut^ with the onion half 
a sour apple, a few green gooseberries or a piece of rhubarb ; 
add the curry-powder (a tablespoonful or less according to 
taste) with the flour and continue cooking eight or ten min- 
utes before adding the cup of stock. Half a cup of almond 
or cocoanut-milk is considered by many as an improvement 
to dishes of curry. To prepare the nut milk, scald the pounded 
nuts in milk, then strain forcibly through a cheesecloth. When 
other acids are not at hand, a little currant-jelly with lemon 
juice gives the sweetish-sour taste considered so essential in 
a properly concocted curry. Let the meat stand over hot 
water some little time in the curry-sauce, to take up the flavor 
of the sauce. Serve in a rice border (see Cooking of Rice, 
page 331). For white salpicon or chopped mixture, proceed 
in the same manner, without browning the vegetables or flour, 
and use milk or white stock as the liquid. Below are given 
recipes showing a few of the countless variations in serving 
these dishes. 

TURKEY RECHAUFFE 

With pastry-bag and rose-tube fashion potato roses around 
the inside of a dish that will stand the heat of the oven. Use 
hot potato, either duchess or plain mashed. Brush over the 
potato with an egg beaten with a spoonful of milk, add the 
rest of the egg to the sauce in which cold turkey, chopped or 
cut in cubes, is to be reheated. Have the sauce quite con- 
sistent, to avoid running out between the "roses. " To secure 
this, cut down the quantity of liquid for the sauce, or use 
more flour. Pour the turkey mixture into the centre of the 
dish, cover the top with cracker-crumbs, stirred into melted 
butter, and set the dish into the oven to brown the crumbs. 



248 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

The rdchauif^ may be brown or white. See preceding para- 
graph. 

MUTTON RECHAUFFE, CREOLE STYLE 

I tablespoonful of chopped green , Salt. 

pepper. A grating of horseradish. 

I tablespoonful of chopped onion. 1-2 a teaspoonful of lemon juico. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i 1-2 cups of cooked mutton cut 
3 tablespoonfuls of fiour. in thin slices. 

1 cup of brown stock. 1-2 a cup of tomato pulp. 

Prepare according to previous directions ; reheat the mutton 
in the sauce over hot water and pour over cooked macaroni, 
blanched and drained. Let stand in the open oven long 
enough for the macaroni to become hot, then serve at once. 

CREAMED CORNED BEEF AU GRATIN 

2 cups of cold corned beef , cut in 1-4 a cup of flour. 

cubes. 2 cups of milk. 

2 slices of onion. Paprika to taste. 

I cup of celery leaves or coarse 1-2 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

stalks cut in pieces. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter 

1-4 a cup of butter. 

Scald the milk with the onion and celery and strain a little 
at a time over the butter, flour, and paprika creamed together; 
stir and cook until smooth and boiling, then cook over hot 
water ten minutes, and strain over the corned beef; turn into 
a buttered gratin dish, stir the cracker-crumbs into the melted 
butter, spread them over the top of the mixture and set the 
dish in the oven long enough to brown the crumbs. Garnish 
with curled celery or celery leaves. 

VICTORIA CHICKEN (BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL) 

1-4 a cup of butter. Salt and paprika. 

1-4 a cup of flour. i 1-2 cups of cooked fowl, cut in 

(2 slices of onion) if convenient or cubes. 

(i mushroom) agreeable. i cup of cooked and drained 

I cup of chicken stock. peas, fresh or canned, 

1-2 a cup of tomato pur&. 

Prepare as usual. Serve in pastry or china cases, tiny cas- 
seroles, bread croustades or on toast. 



MUTTON RECHAUFFE WITH MACARONI 249 



CALF'S HEAD OR MOCK TERRAPIN (ELLEN M. CHANDLER) 

Calf's head and brains. i cup of cream. 

Black and cayenne pepper. 1-2 a cup of butter. 

2 blades of mace. 4 tablespoonfuls of flouJ' 

4 eggs (hard boiled) . 1 cup of sherry wine. 

I cup of broth. 

Steam or simmer the well-cleaned head and brains, tied in 
a cloth, of a calf until the meat is tender— the brains will cook 
in twenty minutes — it should then be set aside in a covered 
dish. Remove the head meat from the bones and when cold 
cut, in small pieces, spread on a dish and season with the 
pepper. Melt the butter, add the flour and cook until frothy, 
then gradually add the broth and cream and stir until the 
sauce boils ; then add the pieces of meat, the brains, also sepa- 
rated into pieces, and the eggs (cooled in cold water and cut 
in slices). Let simmer until all are well heated, then remove 
from the fire, add the wine and serve in a hot dish. 

MEAT RECHAUFFE WITH CURRY AND TURKISH PILAF 

1-4 a cup of butter. i 1-2 cups of stock. 

2 slices of onion. 1-2 a cup of almond milk. 

1 clove of garlic. 2 tablespoonfuls of currant jelly. 
1-4 a cup of flour. t tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder. 2 cups of thin sliced meat. 

Prepare as usual and reheat over hot water. Serve inside 
a border of plain boiled rice or of Turkish pilaf . The pilaf may 
be shaped with a spoon, or in a border mould. For the latter, 
press the cooked rice into a buttered mould, let stand ten 
minutes in the oven, then invert on the serving-dish. (For 
Rice and Turkish Pilaf see page 332.) 

MUTTON RECHAUFFE WITH MACARONI 

3-4 a cup of macaroni. i pint, generous measure, of to- 

I pint of cold lamb or mutton in mato sauce. 

slices. 1-3 a cup oi butter. 

I cup of cracker crumbs. 
Use the trimmings and bones in making stock for the tomato 
sauce. In a buttered au gratin dish alternate the layers of 



2 so PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

macaroni and meat dressed with the sauce: mix the crumbs 
with the melted butter and spread over the last layer, which 
should have sauce above. Set into the oven long enough to 
brown the crumbs. 

HARICOT OR RAGOUT OF MUTTON (UNCOOKED MEAT) 

3 pounds of mutton (neck or breast) i sprig of thyme. 

2 ounces (1-4 a cup) of butter. A bay leaf. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i clove. 

I clove of garlic. Potatoes. 

I onion. Salt. 
4 sprigs of parsley. 

Cut the mutton in pieces two inches long and one inch wide 
and saut^ in the butter until well browned, then stir in the 
flour and, when blended with the butter, add cold water to 
cover; add also the seasonings, the onion whole, and the garlic 
chopped fine. Let simmer until nearly tender, stirring occas- 
sionally; add the potatoes, pared, quartered and cut in the 
shape of an orange carpel, having about as many pieces of 
potato as of meat, and let simmer until the potatoes are tender. 
Serve the pieces of meat in the middle of the dish, the potatoes 
around, and the liquid, from which the fat has been removed, 
over the whole. Prepare other meats, as veal, chicken, and 
rabbit, in the same manner. 

II 

SALPICON OR CHOPPED MIXTURES, COOLED THEN FRIED, 
PROTECTED BY CRUMBS OX BATTER, ETC. 

CROQUETT?,S 

The object to be desired in croquette mixtures, besides 
flavor, is a consistency of such firmness as will allow the shap- 
ing of the mixture easily when cold, and yet will insure a soft 
and creamy mass when heated. This condition may be best 
secured by using veal or chicken stock in the sauce which 
forms the foundation of all these dishes. Stock made from 
veal or chicken is rich in gelatine, and, thus, a liquid when hot, 
it becomes a firm jelly easy to handle when cold. The sauce 



Chicken and sweetbread croquettes 251 

for these mixtures is to be prepared according to the directions 
given under division I. To the sauce is added the materials 
to be used, one or more in kind, chopped or cut small, not 
crushed. Yolks of eggs and cream are added for richness or 
additional nutriment, but most dehcious croquettes may be 
made without either in the body of the mixture; eggs, how- 
ever, are needed to make a fat-proof covering. After the 
meat or vegetable has been stirred into the sauce, set aside in 
a shallow dish to become cold. To shape, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry, see Chapter IV, pages 25-27. 

RECIPES 

CHICKEN AND SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES 

1-4 a cup of butter. i egg. 

1-2 a cup of flour. Salt and paprika. 

I cup of milk or i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

I cup of chicken stock seasoned i pair of sweetbreads and chick- 
with vegetables and herbs. en to make i 1-2 cups in all. 

1-3 a cup of cream. 

If a richer flavor than the stock gives be desired, cook a 
slice of onion and a mushroom or two in the butter to be used 
in making the sauce. Add the egg, two yolks are better than 
the whole egg, just before the meat, and do not boil the sauce 
after the egg is added. 

This same formula may be used with any kind of meat or 
combinations of meat, or with fish, shell-fish or vegetables, 
all having been previously cooked. 

Oysters need be carefully drained after parboiling, then 
when cold, cut in small pieces, and drained again. 

If the oyster liquor be used instead of chicken or veal stock, 
a teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in a little of the liquor, will 
be of help in shaping the croquettes. Add the last half-cup 
of meat at discretion. Each bit of meat should be surrounded 
by a creamy sauce, but often the full pint is not required. 
Serve with vegetables, as green peas or asparagus-tips, or with 
a sauce, as Bechamel or mushroom. 



2S2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



MACARONI, CELERY, ASPARAGUS-TIPS, CAULIFLOWER, 
MUSHROOM AND GREEN PEA CROQUETTES 

The above are among the vegetables most successfully 
served in croquettes; all should be perfectly cooked and 
drained. The macaroni, celery, mushrooms, and cauliflower 
are to be cut into small bits, then mixed with sauce. Tomato- 
sauce and cheese are admissible as the foundation of all cro- 
quettes save those made of green peas. Chicken stock is 
preferable with asparagus. Serve with tomato, white, Becha- 
mel or HoUandaise sauce. 

The formula is the same as that given for chicken-and- 
sweetbread croquettes. Add the cheese before the vegetable, 
that the heat of the sauce may melt it ; the quantity is largely 
a matter of taste ; one tablespoonf ul to half a cup when a pro- 
nounced flavor is called for. Parmesan cheese should be 
given preference, but American factory cheese will prove quite 
satisfactory. 

CUTLETS OF SWEETBREAD 

Cut in small cubes one or two pairs of parboiled-and-cooled 
sweetbreads, and add cubes of cooked red tongue and chopped 
cooked mushrooms to make a pint in all. Bind together with 
about a cup and, a half of thick white sauce, to which have 
been added the yolk of an egg, a grating of nutmeg, a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and a tablespoonful of fine-chopped 
parsley. When cold form into cutlet shapes, egg-and-bread 
crumb and fry in deep fat. 

VEAL CROQUETTES 

One set of calf's brains. Scant 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I sweetbread. A few grains of cayenne. 

Cold veal to make i pint in all. 1-2 a teaspoonful of lemon juicej 

I cup of veal stock. • 1-2 a teaspoonful of onion juice. 

1-2 a cup of cream. i egg. 

1-4 a cup of butter. Fine-chopped parsley. 

1-2 a cup of flour. Egg and bread crumbs. 

Serve with white sauce, to which has been added the othef 



KROMESKIS 253 

sweetbread cut in cubes; or with mushroom sauce or vege« 
tables k la jardiniere. 

CHICKEN CUTLETS, PARKER HOUSE STYLE 

Prepare a croquette mixture, using the formula given for 
chicken and sweetbread croquettes, but omitting the sweet- 
breads at chojee. Form the chilled mixture into cutlet shapes, 
dip into a yolk of egg, beaten and diluted with one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter to each'yolk of egg, then into fine bread- 
crumbs, dispose on a buttered baking-pan, agate preferred, 
and reheat in a hot oven. Pipe a duchess potato mixture onto 
the edge of the cutlets, brush with beaten yolk of egg and 
reheat in the oven; fill the open centres with buttered peas 
or asparagus-tipS. The asparagus-tips may be mixed with 
Hollandaise sauce. Note that' the yolks of eggs only are used 
in egging and that the cutlets are not double breaded. 

RISSOLES 

Rissoles are made by enclosing a croquette mixture in 
pastry and, after brushing the surface with beaten egg, frying 
in deep fat. Occasionally rissoles are baked instead of fried. 
The paste is preferably puff -paste ; the trimmings of a vol-au- 
vent or patties are often so used. The pastry is rolled very 
thin, about one-eighth of an inch thick to insure thorough 
cooking. The croquette mixture needs be cold and the pastry 
chilled. Put a teaspoonful of the chilled mixture on the 
crust in several places in a line, near the edge, and fold the 
pastry over mixture. Cut out half-circles of paste with the 
mixture in the centre of each, using a fluted patty-cutter for 
the purpose ; lift the part of the paste folded over the mixture, 
brush the edge with water and press carefully in place again. 
Brush the entire surface with beaten egg, and let cook until 
delicately colored. Serve on a folded napkin'. 

KROMESKIS 

Kromeskis are 'made by enclosing an oyster in a piece of 
bacon; or a croquette mixture, or even a solid piece of meat 
with a little forcemeat or stuffing, in pork caul, then dipping 



2S4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

in batter and frying in deep fat. When croquette mixture, or 
meat with stuffing is used, the outside protection needs be 
folded and secured most carefully. The ends of an oyster 
or mushroom wrapped in bacon may be left open. Several 
kromeskis may be strung on a skewer, and, when fried and 
drained, pushed from it on to a folded napkin ; or, if a silver 
skewer be used, they may be served on the skewer. Fritter 
batter, into which kromeskis are dipped before frying, is 
given on page 272. 

Ill 

SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, CREAM AND QUENELLE 
FORCEMEATS 

This division of made dishes .has a counterpart in a similar 
division in sweet dishes, and, also, in vegetable dishes. The 
directions given here for the preparation of meat and fish 
dishes will suffice for both the others. The foundation for 
all meat and fish dishes of this class is a paste, or pur^e of 
meat or fish, either cooked or uncpoked. The paste or pur^e 
is lightened to a greater or less degree, according as it is a 
souffle, cream or quenelle forcemeat mixture, by the addition 
of eggs, cream, and sauces, one or all. Of these preparations 
mousses and souffles are the lightest, and quenelles the most 
compact. Creams form the connecting link between the two. 

SOUFFLES 

Souffles are the lightest form of made dishes : lightness is 
produced by the expansion of air wheil heated, the air being 
incorporated into eggs by beating. 

In a souffle, pure and simple, nothing is added to the eggs 
but salt or sugar and flavor, but, save in an omelet souffle, 
these are not found in savory dishes. Savory souffles are 
composed of: 

1. A sauce as foundation. 

2. A pur^e of fish, game or meat, etc. 

3. Flavoring, as onion juice, lemon juice, mushroom catsup or 

chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley, celery salt or pepper. 

4. Lightening ingredients as eggs alone or eggs with bread crumbs. 




CHICKEN CUTLETS, PARKER HOUSE STYLE. 
(See page 253.) 




Pi<.ESSED CHICKEN. (See page 151.) 




CREAMED CORNED BEEF AU GRATIN. (Seepage 248.) 



OYSTER SOUFFLE 25$ 

The number of eggs and the thickness of the foundation 
sauce may vary greatly, thus producing souffles of varjring 
grades of consistency, as : two tablespoonfuls of flour and three 
eggs may be used with one-half a cup, one cup or one pint of 
liquid, and one-half a cup, one cup or one pint of meat or 
fish p'ur^e, respectively. In case of the pint of meat and 
liquid, half a cup of fine breadcrumbs needs be added to the 
sauce. 

As these mixtures in cooking rise to about double their 
bulk, the dish containing them should be half-filled, or a but- 
tered paper band may be securely fastened around the dish 
to add to its height. The paper is removed before sending the 
dish to the table. When served as an entree, souffles are baked 
in individual dishes, or in well-oiled and dried paper cases. 
We give below three recipes: an oyster, chicken, lobster or 
any other variety of souffle may be prepared by any one of 
these recipes, as preferred. Bake in a moderate oven or steam 
with' water at a very gentle simmer. The time required in 
cooking is from twenty to thirty minutes, in individual cases, 
ten to fifteen minutes. The cooking is completed when the 
centre is firm. Prompt serving is necessary. Souffles are 
always served from the dish in which they are cooked. Serve 
with or without a sauce. Mushroom, Bechamel, tomato or 
white-sauce are to be preferred. 

LOBSTER SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a cup of lobster meat cut 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. in cubes. 

' I cup of milk, lobster or fish stock. Salt, cayenne, onion jtiice, pars- 
I cup of very finely chopped lobster ley . 

meat. Lemon juice. 

3 eggs. 

OYSTER SOUFFLE 

a tablespoonfvils of butter. i o drop's of onion juice. 

a tablespoonfuls of flotu-. i - 2 a teaspoonf til of parsley. 

1-2 a cup of oyster Uquor. j Salt and paprika. 

1-2 a cup of oysters. 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms. 



2s6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Parboil the oysters, drain and cut in small pieces when cold. 
Strain the liquor and use with the butter and flour in making 
the sauce; add the seasonings, the yolks of the eggs beaten 
until very thick, and when cooked a little add the oysters, and 
fold in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and paprika. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Onion juice. 

I pint of milk or chicken stock or Parsley. 

part of each. Celery salt. 

1-2 a cup of fine bread crumbs. 3 eggs. 

I pint of fine chopped chicken (cold). 

Make a sauce of the first three ingredients; add the bread- 
crumbs, the chicken (cooked and chopped very fine), the 
yolks of eggs well beaten, and the seasonings; and lastly fold 
in the whites beaten until dry. 

For cheese soufH^ see "What May Be Done with Cheese, " 
page 379. 

FORCEMEAT 

Forcemeat is used in many of the choicest entries. It is 
used either alone or in combination with salpicon. When 
used alone it may be cooked in a border or cylindrical mould, 
in individual timbale moulds, or as quenelles. When com- 
bined in cooking with salpicon it may be used as the lining 
of a large mould, or of individual moulds, with a filling of 
salpicon. 

Of forcemeat there are two varieties, cream forcemeat. 
very delicate in composition, and quenelle forcemeat, in which 
a bread or flour panada adds firmness to the preparation. 
Raw pulp of meat, or fish scraped from the fibre, pounded 
smooth in a mortar and passed through a pur^e sieve, is the 
foundation of the cream forcemeat. The meat or fish pulp, 
prepared as before, mixed with panada, and passed a second 
time through the sieve, is the foundation of quenelle forcemeat. 
As the pulp must be forcibly pressed through the pur^e sieve, 
the sieve must stand very firmly. A sieve fitted tightly into 



FISH CREAM FORCEMEAT 257 

the lower part pf a double-bo jler tjas proved a good arrange- 
ment for home use. The pur^e needs be scraped from time 
to time from the lower part of the sieve. 

CHICKEN CREAM FORCEMEAT (RANHOFER) 

1-2 a poun(J of chicken (white meat) . i pint of whipped cream or 

5 ounces of butter (1-2 cup and 2 1-3 a pint of doubled cream 

tablespoonftds) . whipped 

I whole egg land S3.It. 

4 yolks of eggs or Nutmeg. 

4 whites of eggs. Pepper 

Scrape the flfish of the chicken from the fibre an.d pound it 
in a mortar to a smooth pulp, adding a little white of egg 
pppasionally, to facilitate the process; return the pulp to the 
mortar after sifting and pound info jt, gradually, the butter 
and the eggs ; add the seasonings and set the mixture upon the 
ice. When chilled beat thoroughly and add to it slowly the 
whipped cream. Shape a little of the forcemeat into a half-inch 
ball and poach nearly ten minutes in water just "off the boil." 
boil." If too firm add more cream. If not sufficiently con- 
sistent, 9xid a little more egg. Park meat of chicken, game, 
firm fish, turkey, or veal, may be substituted for the chijcken, 

CHICKEN FORCEMEAT WITH WHITE-SAUCE 

Same as above, using three^foijrths a cup of cold white 
sauce made with thin creajij in the place of the cream. 

FISH CREAM FORCEMEAT (RANHOFER) 

; pound of boned and skinned bass The whitps of two eggs, 
or other firm fish. 6 to 8 gills (3 to 4 cups) 

Salt, nutmeg and red pepper. of beaten cream. 

Pound the fish in a mortar, after running it through a meat- 
chopper several times, or scrape the pulp from the fibre and 
pound it in a mortar; beat in gradually the whjteg of the 
eggs, pass through a sieve and add the cream, beaten stiff, 
gradually. Poach a small ball and rectify as needed with 
cream or white of egg. 



2S8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

QUENELLE FORCEMEAT (MALLOCK) 

8 oz. (i cup) of meat or fish pniie. i egg. 

4 oz. (i-2 a cup) of flour panada. i tablespoonful of cream. 

I oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) of butter. Salt and pepper. 

The pur^e is measured after pounding and sifting; add the 
panada and continue pounding, adding, meanwhile, the other 
ingredients. This gives a very firm forcemeat. 

QUENELLE FORCEMEAT, No. z (DELICATE) 

I cup of raw meat or fish purde. 1-3 a cup of butter. 

1-2 a cup of panada The whites of 3 eggs or 

(floxir or bread) . The yolks of 3 eggs 

1 cup of cream whipped. Salt and pepper. 

Prepare in the same manner as above, pressing through the 
sieve a second time, before adding the cream. 

FLOUR PANADA 

2 tablesjJoonfuls of butter. Few grains of salt. 
1-2 a cup of boiling water. i egg. 

1-2 a cup of flour. (Makes i cup of panada.) 

Melt the butter in the boiling water; when again boiling 
stir in the sifted flour and continue stirring until the mixture 
leaves the sides of the pan ; let cook a few moments, keeping it 
in motion to avoid burning; remove from the fire an'd beat 
into it one raw egg; cover and cool before using. Makes i cup. 

BREAD PANADA 

• Soak white bread, free from crust, in cold water to cover, 
until well softened. Then turn into a napkin and press out 
the water. Add milk or white-stock. Cook and stir, until a 
paste is formed that clings together and leaves the sides of the 
pan. Cook a few moments, then beat in one egg. 

TO MOULD AND COOK FORCEMEATS 

Butter the mould very thoroughly, ornament, if desired, 
with pieces of truffle, red beef tongue, half-cooked carrot, 
chopped ham, parsley, truffles, or sifted yolk of egg, or lobstei 
coral, as is appropriate. Fill the mould by means of a forcing- 



CHICKEN TIMBALES 259 

bag and plain tube held inside and close to the surface. If a 
spoon be used, hit the mould sharply against the table several 
times while filling, to cause the mixture to settle evenly in the 
vessel, otherwise creases will appear to mar the appearance 
of the dish when cooked. If the forcemeat is to be used as a 
lining and the centre filled with a salpicon, press the meat 
against the sides of the mould to a depth of about three- 
eighths an inch for individual timbales, to a full inch, for a 
large mould. Make the lining of a large mould considerably 
thicker near the top (which will be the bottom when inverted) 
to insure a firm foundation; fill the centre with salpicon and 
cover the top with forcemeat, making very smooth and even, 
that the timbale may stand even. Set the mould on a trivet 
or fold of paper, in a dish filled to half the height of the mould 
with water just "off the boil." Cook in the oven until the 
centre feels firm, from ten to fifteen minutes for a small mould 
and twenty to thirty minutes for a large mould. On no 
account should the water reach the boiling point. Partially 
invert the mould on a cloth to drain off the liquid, then turn 
the contents onto a serving-dish. While inverting small 
moulds the timbale may be kept in place with a spatula. 
Large moulds need be handled very carefully; it is better to 
take up the liquid that drains from them onto the serving- 
dish than to run the risk of breaking the contents. 

VARIOUS STYLES OF MOULDING FORCEMEAT 

CHICKEN TIMBALES 

Fill the individual timbale moulds, decorated with diamond 
or crescent-shaped bits of truffle, with any of the chicken force- 
meats and poach as directed. Serve with mushroom, Becha- 
mel or AUemand sauce. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES, NO. 2 

Line a charlotte russe mould, decorated with figures cut 
from carrot, white of hard-boiled egg and trufHe, with 
forcemeat an inch thick, fill the centre with a thick sauce 
(double the usual quantity of flour and use thick cream in 
part as the hquid) mixed with small quenelles, cooked mush- 



36o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

rooms, and dark meat of thfi chicken cut in cubes. An un- 
(iecGrated melon mould makes a well shaped timbale. 

CHICKEN TIMBA];.ES, NO, 3 

Cook the forcemeat in a round or oval border mould and 
fill the centre, wlien unmoulded, with the same salpicon as that 
used above in a thinner sauce, or with sweetbreads cut in 
cubes, chicken quenelles and chopped truffles mixed in a 
white or Bechamel sauce. 

CHICKEN TIM3ALES, NO. 4> MOULDS LINED WITH 
SPAGHETTI 

Cook f-uU-length pieces of spaghetti until tender, in boiling 
salted water. Have the salted water boiling and carefully 
put one end of all th§ pieces into the water together; as the 
i Spaghetti becomes moist, it may be coiled around into the 
saucepan of water without breaking. Rinse carefully with 
cold water and dispose the pieces at full length on a cloth to 
icool. Thoroughly butter a mould- Moulds with slanting 
sides are more easily lined. Begin at the centre of the bottom 
and coil the spaghetti round and round, adding a little force- 
meat, as a second lining, to hold the spaghetti in place. Fill 
the ceritre with rings of cooked macaroni (macaroni cut in one- 
fourth inch pieces) or alphabet paste mixed with tomato- 
sauce and cheese, or with cubes of sweetbread, chicken livers 
miishrooms, or red tongue in a Bechamel sauce. (Note "To 
Mould and Cook Forcemeat," page 258.) Serve with tomato 
or Bechamel sauce, 

FISH TIMBALES 

' Same as chicken timbales Nos, i, ?, and 3, substituting fish 
forcemeat for the chicken, and fish quenelles and oysters, 
cubes of lobster meat or picked shrimps, broken in pieces 
and added to white sauce made of fish and oyster or lobster 
stock and cream, for the garnish used with chicken. 

SHELLS OF CHICKEN OR FISH FORCEMEAT 

Press the forcemeat into well-buttered shells sprinkled iVith 
fine-chopped parsley, ham or trufHes, for chicken; olives, 



CHICKEN'S LEGS AS CUTLETS WITH OLIVES 261 

pickles, capers or lobster coral, for fish fofcetiieats. Set the 
shells on sfeveral folds of paper, pour water aroutld them and 
poach in the oven about twenty minutes. With pastry-bag 
and small plain tube press part of the forcemeat onto a but- 
tered paper fofming fluted oblongs about an inch in length 
(quenelles), spread the paper, quenelle side down, in a sauce- 
pan of water just "off the boil" and let poach ten minutes. 
Skim from the water, and add, with small fOUiids cUt ftom 
slices of cold boiled ham or dark meat of fowl, to a cup of 
yellow Bechamel sauce. Dress the shells, crown fashion, 
on a serving-dish, with the sauce, quenelles, etc. in the centre. 

CHICKEN'S LEGS AS CUTLETS WITH OLIVES 

Remove the tendons and bones from the legs of six young 
chickens, retaining, however, an inch and a half of the drum- 
stick nearest the foot; season inside with salt, pepper, and 
fine herbs, then stuff with chicken quenelle forcemeat made of 
the breast of a part of the chicken. Sew with coarse thread 
leaving the legs in shape. Put them in a flat saucepan, season 
and let simmer until tender, barely covered with stock; let 
partly cool in the stock, then press under a weight. Remove 
the stitches and trim the, legs neatly; egg-and-breadcrumb 
and fry in deep fat, or saut^, first on one side and then on the 
other, to a golden brown in melted butter. After draining on 
soft paper, put a frill on the end of each bone, dispose in a 
circle on a hot dish and fill the centre with stoned olives, filled 
with chicken forcemeat and poached. The olives may be 
stoned, the forcemeat omitted, and the dish heated in, water 
brought nearly to the boiling point. Sefve with white sauce, 
seasoned with lemon juice and fine-chopped parsley. 

GAME OR DARK FORCEMEAT WITH MUSHROOMS 

1-2 a pound of game meat or 1-3 a cup of Bechamel sauce. _^ 

datk meat of fowl. i- 2 a cup of mushroom pur6e.,;^ 

The white of 1 egg. 

Chop a pound of fresh mushrooms, cook in butter, until the 
moisture has evaporated, and pound with one-third the quan- 
tity of thick Bechamel ; let cool and mix in gradually to the 



262 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pulp in the mortar, pounding meanwhile: pass through the 
sieve and rectify if needed with cream or white of egg. 

CUTLETS OF BEEF FORCEMEAT, MACARONI RAGOUT 

1-2 a lb. of raw lean fillet of beef. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1-4 a lb. of lean cooked ham or 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

pickled tongue. 1-2 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

4 ounces of panada. 3 raw eggs. 

' tablespoonfuls of thick brown sauce. 

With a pestle pound the raw and cooked meat in a mortar; 
add the panada, sauce and butter, and pound again; then, 
when thoroughly blended, add the seasonings and eggs and 
pound and mix once more; then press through a pur^e sieve, 
scraping the mixture from the under side of the sieve. With 
pastry-bag and tube press the forcemeat into small well-but- 
tered cutlet tins (fifteen will be needed) and smooth the sur- 
face with a knife wet in boiling water. Set the moulds, on 
folds of paper or a trivet, in a shallow baking-pan, add water 
at the boiling point to cover the bottom of the moulds and 
poach in the oven about twenty minutes. Unmould and 
dispose on a border of hot mashed potato, first masking alter- 
nate cutlets by dipping them in hot and well-reduced tomato- 
sauce. Fill the centre with macaroni ragout and sprinkle 
with fine-chopped parsley. 

MACARONI RAGOUT 

Reheat a cup of cooked macaroni, half a cup of cooked ham 
or tongue, cut in Juliennes, and a dozen cooked mushroom 
caps in a rich tomato-sauce 

SUPREME OF BEEF TENDERLOIN (ADOLPHE MEYER) 

1 pound of beef tenderloin. i whole egg. 

I 1-4 cups of panada. Nutmeg, salt, paprika. 

,1 1-4 cups of butter. i cup of brown sauce. 

1 cup of well-reduced brown sauce. Marrow. Mushrooms. 

3 yolks of eggs. Sweet Red peppers. 




CHICKEN TIMBALES. ORNAMENTED WITH PAPER AIGRETTES. 
(See page 2O3.) 




SHELLS OF CHICKEN FORCEMEAT WITH QUEXELLES. 
(See page 2 00.) 




RAGOUT OF MACARONI WITH BEEF CUTLETS. (See page 262.) 



■ CHICKEN TIMBALES 263 

Scrape the beef from the fibres, then pound in a mortar, 
adding while poimding the panada, butter, and reduced 
brown sauce; add the seasonings and the eggs, then pass 
through a fine sieve ; set on ice and beat into it the second cup 
of sauce. With this forcemeat line buttered timbale moulds 
and fill the hollow centres with salpicon of marrow, mush- 
rooms and peppers, cut in small squares, after cooking, and 
mixed with thick brown sauce ; cover the top with a layer of 
the forcemeat, place the moulds on several folds of paper, in 
a dish of hot water, and cook in a slow oven about fifteen 
minutes. Unmould and serve with Spanish sauce. Poach the 
marrow, saut^ and cook the mushrooms, and parboil the 
peppers before cutting them for the sauce. Test the force- 
meat and rectify with sauce, or eggs, as needed before lining 
the moulds. 

The mixtures for the four following dishes, on account of 
their consistency and manner of preparation, do not belong to 
this class. They are much more easily prepared than force- 
meat preparations and, while they do not possess the smooth- 
ness and delicacy of these almost classical dishes, they are to 
be recommended. Any firm fish may take the place of the 
chicken. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES (MRS. MCEWEN, OHIO) 

The breasts of 2 raw chickens. A grating of nutmeg. 

I teaspoonful of salt. The whites of three eggs. 

A dash of white pepper. i pint of cream. 

Pass the chicken breasts five or six times through a meat- 
chopper; add the seasonings and beat into the mixture, one 
at a time, the unbeaten whites of the eggs, and then very 
gradually the cream. Have small timbale moulds well 
buttered ; then put in place round bits of paper, cut to fit the 
bottom of the mould, and butter again; the moulds should be 
filled to two-thirds of their height, cook as all mixtures on a 
trivet, or folded paper, to Hft them from the bottom of the 
dish in which they stand surrounded by hot water. Serve, 
turned from the moulds and surrounded with a pint of white 
sauce, in which a cup of chopped or quartered mushrooms 
have been simmering. 



204 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



SUPREME OF CHICKEN (MISS WILLIAMS, BOSTON) 

Breast of one raw chicken (i cup) . i pint of cream. 

4 eggs. Salt and pepper. 

Chop the chicken breast fine in a meat-chopper; add an egg 
arid beat until smooth, then add the rest of the eggs otte at a 
time, beating. the mixttire aftet each addition until smooth; 
season with neatly thtee-foUrths a teaspoonful of salt arid a 
dash of white pepper. Butter twelve small dariole riioulds 
and ornament them with truffles; fill with the mixture, cover 
with buttered paper and poach about twenty minUtes. (See 
general directions for poaching forcemeat, page 258.) Serve 
with Becharriel saUce. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES (COOKED MEAT) (MRS. ELLIOTT 
RUSSELL, BOSTON) 

1 pint of cold cooked chicken i tablespoonful of chopped pars- 

chopped fine. ley 

2 tablespoonftds of butter. Salt and pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 2 eggs, beaten without separat- 
1-2 a cup of chicken stock. ing 

, Melt the butter, add the bread-crumbs, then the stock; let 
boil, then add the chicken, parsley, salt and pepper, and the 
eggs. Bake in buttered tlttibale mdulds, filled to tWo-thirds 
their height, twenty minutes. Let the riioulds stand while 
cooking on a ttiVet Or thick fold of paper. Serve With the 
following: 

SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. i sprig of parsley. 

I tablespoonful, each of 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 

chopped onion and carrot. i pint of stock. 

I bay leaf. Salt and pepper. 

Cook the onion, carrot, bay leaf and parsley in the butter 
ten minutes and add the flour, salt, and pepper; when frothy 
add the stock gradually, and let simmer ten minutes after 
all the stock is added; strain around the timbales. 

ROMAN PUDDING 

Line a buttered mould with boiled macaroni. The large 
fluted macaroni, cut in rings and strips, gives ari ornamental 



fALMETTES ^65 

lliotild. Cook one-fourth a cup of breadclnmbs in three- 
fourths a cup of milk ; add two tablespooftfuls Of butter, 'a cup 
of cold chicken chopped fine, two tableSpoonfuls of chopped 
ham, and one tablespbonful of fine-chopped gfeefl pepper, 
salt, pepper, and onion juice to taste, and two well-beaten 
eggs; turn into the buttered mould and bake standing in a 
pan df wdter" until fimti. Serve with tomato 6t bfown-sauce, 
flavored with a few gratings of horseradish and a teaspoonful 
of lemon juice. Serve a few bits of macaroni in the sauce. 

MOUSSE OR MOUSSELiNE 

The form of forcemeat called mousse is made Very delicate 
by the use of a large quantity of Whipped cream. On accbUilt 
df its delicacy it is usually cooked in small moulds called 
mousse and sometimes bomb moulds. The bottdms Of theSe 
ftioulds ate of such a shape that in use they need be set 
in timbalg moulds. The mixture is also poached in buttered 
rings standing on heavy buttered paper, or in heart-shaped 
bdttdffiless niOUlds, made of half-inch bands df tin about three 
inched Idng, standing on buttered paper. 

FORCEMEAT FOR MOUSSE OR MOUSSELINE 

t pcfuild of chicketl, white meat. 1-2 a ciip of cream forceftieat. 

The white of one egg. i quart of Miippfed crealit. 

1 cup of fiecBattlel Satice. Salt, red peppei- and Itiace. 

The cream is measured aftef whipping and draihihg. Pre- 
pare and rectify as dther fdrcemeat. 

QUAIL MOUSSELINE 

Substitute quail for chicken in the recipe given above and 
cddt in moulds decorated with pistachio nuts and truffles. 
Serve with Bechamel or cream sauce, to which chopped trufflesi 
have been added. 

PALMETTSS 

Poach a chicken mousse preparation in buttered palmette 
moulds set on folded paper leSs than ten minutes; drain, 
egg-'arid--bteadcrumb and fry in deep fat. Drain oil Soft 



266 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

paper. Serve with green peas or asparagus-tips, or a delicate 
sauce. Quenelle forcemeat and cream forcemeat, half and 
half, may be used for this dish. Palmettes so made are more 
easily handled than those made from a mousse mixture. 

IV 

HOT DISHES COMPOSED OF SMALL PIECES OF SOLID 
MEAT, AS BONED CUTLETS AND SUPREMES 

This class of meat and fish dishes calls for neatness and 
accuracy in treatment. To insure success one should possess 
accuracy of eye and a steady hand combined with experience. 
The dealer is usually quite well satisfied, if he cuts chops of 
about the same thickness : and he could not be trusted to fillet 
the breast of a chicken. If this or similar work be required, it 
needs be done at home and time allotted to it. 

Dishes of this class are favored for entries or for luncheon 
dishes. When neatly fashioned, dressed crown shape or in 
straight rows, one overlapping another, with an appropriate 
accompaniment of pur^e, small vegetables, sauce or salpicon, 
they present a sightly appearance. Chops served unboned, 
though treated similarly, are not included in this division on 
account of the presence of bone. Among the materials thus 
used the most important are fillets of fish, which are fully 
treated in the chapter on fish, the fillet of beef, the "best 
end of the loin " of lamb, mutton or veal, a slice of veal from 
the fillet, the breast of fowl or birds, removed according to 
directions given on page 170, sweetbreads, calf's liver and 
brains. 

FILLET OF BEEF 

The fillet of beef is cut into individual fillets, crosswise the 
grain of the meat into grenadins, minions, noisettes, pau- 
piettes, etc. In trimming the fillet, before cutting into any 
of these shapes — everything but solid meat is removed — 
i.e., all skin and fat. 

FILLETS OF BEEF WITH MARROW 

Have eight or ten pieces nearly one inch thick cut from 
a fillet of beef; broil as any steak, or saut^ in a very little hot 



MINIONS OF BEEF TENDERLOIN 267 

butter six or eight minutes ; the fillets should be left quite rare. 
Split two marrow bones, take out the marrow whole and cut 
in as many slices as fillets; let stand an hour in cold water, 
then place in boiling salted water and let stand ten minutes 
without boiling. Pour a brown sauce, well flavored, on the 
serving-dish, arrange the fillets upon this, season with salt 
and pepper, and dispose a slice of marrow upon each fillet. * 

GRENADINS OF TENDERLOIN, BEAOMARCHAIS STYLE 

Cut lengthwise from a well-trimmed tenderloin of beef half- 
heart-shaped pieces, five by two and one-half inches, and half 
an inch thick. Beat these lightly with a wet cutlet bat, and 
with a sharp knife trim neatly to an exact pattern laid on the 
meat. Lard on one side with rows of fine lardoons, season 
with salt and pepper, and saut^ in oil or clarified butter four 
minutes on the larded side and the same length of time on the 
other. For plain grenadins, remove from the pan and serve 
with clear beef gravy (standard broth) poured over them. ' 
To serve Beaumarchais style, drain ofi or add to the butter in 
the pan as needed, add a teaspoonful or more of fine-chopped 
blanched-and-drained shallot and saut6 without coloring; add 
flour, stock, and seasoning as needed, Also egg yolks and lemon 
juice, and strain onto a serving-dish: sprinkle with fine- 
chopped parsley and arrange the grenadins above, one over- 
lapping another, straight down the dish, surround with crous- 
tades, equal to the number of grenadins, filled with mush- 
rooms stewed in cream. 

MINIONS OF BEEF TENDERLOIN 

Cut a well-trimmed fillet of beef into slices, each weighing 
about five ounces ; with a wet cutlet bat or bread knife beat 
them lightly to the same thickness, then lay a pattern on each 
and with a sharp knife cut into perfect rounds; dip these in 
oil or melted butter and broil over a moderate fire from six 
to ten minutes, as they are to be cooked rare or well done. 
Dress on a hot dish and pour clear gravy over them. 



268 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



MINIONS OF BEEF A LA DUMAS 

Prepate and cook as above aftd lay each on a tatitid slice 
of cooked beei tongue (ttiismoked). Let the dices of tongue 
be less than half an inch thick and of the same diameter as 
the minions. Heat an equal quantity of oftion puree and 
white saUce made with stock and thicken with egg yolks 
diluted with cream. Cover the minions with the sauce — ■ 
which should be thick.-^spread with bfeadcrtimbg and grated 
Parmesan cheese mixed with melted butter and brown in a 
very hot oven. Garnish the serving-dish with tiny crescent- 
shaped, ham-and-mushroom croquettes (see Croquettes, 
page 251). In the croquettes use equal weights of ham and 
mushrooms and do not chop too fine. One-fourth a pound 
of each ingredient with sauce in proportion will be enough 
to garnish a large dish. 

MINIONS OF BEEF TENDERLdllSf WITH CHESTNUTS 

Cook the minions as above; dress on a bread croustade. 
Surround the minions, of fill the centre, according as the 
minions are arranged, with shelled, blanched, and dookfed 
whole chestnuts. To cook the chestnuts, let simmer until 
tendef in broth with a stalk of celery. Reduce the broth to 
serve with the dish, thickening it if desired. 

NOISETTES OF BEEF TENDERLOIN 

Noisettes differ from minions of tenderloin simply in Size, 
they should weigh about three ounces. Broiled or sauted, 
they are appfopriately served with mushroom pur6e, sauted 
potato-balls sprinkled with parsley or with potatoes k la 
maitfe d'hotel (see page 293), or with fritters or croquettes of 
beef marrow and mushrooms. 

PAUPIETTES of BEEF TENDERLOIN 

P'rom a well-trimmed tenderloin cut lengthwise slices tive 
by two and one-fourth inches and less than one-fourth an inch 
in thickness; beat lightly and trim evenly; season with salt, 
pepper, and mace, and cover one side with a layer of cooked 



VEAL ROLLS A LA JARDINIERE 269 

fine herbs addied to half-glage and half-sauee and thickened 
by sirnmering. (see Cooked Fine Herbs, page 33). Roll the 
paupiettes into cylindrical forjns; roll again in a shaving of 
fat salt-pork, tie in shape and lay side by side in a, frying-pan ; 
add stock to h3,lf their height and let simmer until the liquid 
is evaporated; add more stock and finish cooking in a moderate 
oven. When tender, remove the strings and pork, gtrain and 
skim the fat from the stock, thicken with a brown roUK and 
serve, poured over the paupiettes or separately. Slices cut 
frpm a fillet of veal may be prepared in the same manner. 

BEST ENP OF THE LOIN OF LAMB, ETC, 

This piece of meat corresponds to that part of the sirloin of 
beef in which the tenderloin is found. When this cut is to 
be served,, either in hot or cold dishes, sepaFatpd into uniform 
pieces free from bone and fat, the pieces can be given a more 
exact and uniform size and shape, if the bones be removed 
first of all. The section of back or chine-bone and the bone 
connected with this and at right angles to it may be removed 
in one piece, then the meat can be sliced into cutlets, or chops, 
of the same thickness, then trimmed and skewered to the same 
shapfip These boned cutlets may be broiled, or braisgd, and 
finished in accordance with any of the recipes given for fillets 
of beef. They may also be used for medallions on rounds 
of meat. 

VEAL ROLLS A LA JARDINIERE 

Cut veal from the leg in very thin slices. With a wooden 
mallet pound the slices to one-fourth an inch in thickness, 
cut in pieces three by five inches, and chop the trimmings 
with one-eighth as much of bacon or fat salt-pork. Add half 
as much, by measure, of fresh breadcrumbs as meat, season 
with onion juice, paprika, lemon juice, salt, and the stems of 
a dozen mushrooms, chopped and sauted in butter. Add a 
beaten egg and stock or water, to make the whole as moist as 
possible and still hold its shape. Spread each slice with the 
forcemeat nearly to the edge, roll tightly, and tie or fasten 
with small buttered skewers. Shape the remaining mixture 



270 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

into balls. Dredge both rolls and balls with salt, pepper, and 
flour, and saut6 to a light brown in hot bacon fat or butter. 
Half cover with stock, or thin cream, and let simmer about 
forty-five minutes, or until tender. _ Meanwhile boil a cauli- 
flower and peas; saut^ a dozen mushroom-caps, wiped and 
peeled, and cook them ten minutes in a little cream. Dispose 
the rolls upon a serving-dish, the vegetables and balls around. 
Mix the cream in which the mushrooms were cooked with 
the liquid in the pan, thicken if desired with roux or meuni^re, 
and strain into a sauce-boat. The yolk of beaten egg, diluted 
with one-fourth a cup of cream, or with a tablespoonful of 
butter and a little lemon juice, may be added if desired. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN OR GAME 

Directions for the removal of fillets of fowl or birds were 
given on page 1 70. The fowl from which fillets are to be taken 
needs be plump and full grown but young. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN, PLAIN 

Lay the fillets, all cut the size of the small fillet, side by 
side on a buttered bakiiig-pan; pour in a very little stock, 
cover tightly with an oiled paper, and cook in a rather hot 
oven about ten minutes. Serve, one overlapping another, 
crown-shaped, or straight down the dish. Asparagus-tips 
make an appropriate garnish. Serve Bechamel sauce apart. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH TONGUE ESCALOPS ' 

Cut the large fillets of one or two plump chickens into fillets, 
the shape and size of the small fillet, and cook as above. 
Poach a ring of chicken quenelle forcemeat in a narrow bor- 
der mould, concave on the top. Cut some escalops of cooked 
red beef tongue, the size of the fillets, and heat them in a 
little broth. Dress the fillets, the pointed ends uppermost 
and covered with paper frills, and the escalops alternately on 
the crown of forcemeat. Fill the centre with green peas, held 
together in cream or Bechamel sauce. To make the dish 
more elaborate, cut slantwise five parallel incisions down the 
centre of each fillet, having the cuts equidistant from one 



FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS 271 

another, and into each of these press a round slice of truffle; 
cut the exposed edge of the truffle in points or leave plain. 

fillets of chicken with forcemeat 

(an entree made from one chicken to serve eight) 

Remove the fillets with care, to avoid separating the mignon 
and large fillets. Cut each side lengthwise into four fillets; 
bat each to a uniform thickness with a broad knife wet in cold 
water, dispose in a buttered agate pan, sprinkle with lemon 
juice, salt, and pepper; cover with a buttered paper and cook 
about five minutes in a moderate oven, then press under a 
hght weight until cold. Free the meat, taken from the first 
and second joints, of skin and sinew. To each half-pound of 
meat, add four ounces of panada, one ounce of butter, salt 
and white pepper, and pound in a mortar to a smooth paste, 
adding meanwhile two raw eggs. When well blended press 
through a sieve. Spread this to the depth of half an 
inch over the fillets, smoqth the tops and edges with a knife 
wet in hot water, and trim the fillets into shape if needed: 
put into a buttered saut^ pan, add two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry wine and set into the oven for about fifteen minutes 
or until firm to the touch. Dispose the fillets on a border of 
forcemeat or potato and fill the centre with a ragout of button 
mushrooms and chicken quenelles, or of peas or asparagus in 
a rich sauce. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS 

Remove the fillets from two chickens, separating them into 
large and mignon fillets; remove the membrane from the 
large fillets and the tendons from the mignon or small fillets 
and trim neatly. Cut transverse slits in the upper side of each 
fillet and, in the larger, insert slices of truffle stamped into 
rounds with the lower edge fringed, and tiny strips of truffle, 
in the smaller fillets. Smoked and cooked beef tongue may be 
used in the place of the truffles. Brush the fillets with beaten 
white of egg and dispose in a buttered agate baking-pan; 
turn in a few spoonfuls of rich broth or wine and cook about 
fifteen minutes covered closely with ?. buttered paper. Sprin- 



2 72 PRACTICAL COOKING ANP SERVING 

kle the fillets with a little s3.It before brushing with the egg. 
Dispose around a socle of fried bread. Garnigh the top with 
heart leaves of lettuce and surround the base with a veloutd 
sauce to which the trimmings of the truffles, chopped fine, 
and eight mediwni-sized mushroom-caps saut^ci in butter 
have been added. 

For sweetbreads, calf's liver, and brains, which are included 
in this division, see the chapter on veal, page 151. 

COLO COOKEP MEAT FRIED IN BATTER 

Tender, cold cooked mieat of any kind may be trimmed into 
pieces of uniform shape and size, dipped in Villeroi sauce, 
and when cold egg-and-breadcrumbed and fried in deep fat. 
Fritter batter may take the place of the sauce and egg-and- 
breadcrumbing. " Cooked fine herbs, " or a croquette mix- 
ture, is often spread upon one side after shaping. Cold roast 
turkey and chicken are excellejit, prepared by this recipe. 

FRITTER BATTER 

The yolks of 2 eggs. 1-49, tpaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a cup of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of olive oil. 

I cup of flour. The whites of 2 eggs. 

Beat the yolks, add the milk gradually and stir little by 
little into the flour and salt sifted together; add the oil ancj 
set aside several hours. When ready to use add the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff. 

BATTER FOR SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES 

3-4 a cup of flour. i egg. 

1-2 a tegspooijfyl of salt. 1-2 a teg^ljoouful of olive oil. 

1-2 a cup of ipilk. 

Prepare as above, except beat the egg without separating. 
If the cases lack in crispness and are thick and goft, more milk 
is needed ; when right the case is very thin, delicate, and crisp. 
For notes on fritter batter, see fritters under desserts. 

TO make; fritter cases— Swedish timbale cases— 

FOR SALPICON MIXTURES 

Plain and fluted irons of various shapes, miounted on a long 
handle, are used for shaping Swedish timbale cases. Tp use, 







■"^■i//-/;^;. 



r,ii\rT) (jL \H, 

Halved, broiled, stuffed with forcemeat, Cfrged, crumbed and fried, then 
served with a puree of peas. 




FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS. (See page 271.) 

'■i' .■■■-■-. 

*•■•■'- ■ 




SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES. (See page 272.) 
(SWEDISH TIMBALE IRON. See illustration page 47.) 



ASPIC-JELLY 273 

dip the iron into the hot fat, let stand two or three minutes, 
then drain and dip into the batter, — held in a small cup, — • 
to half an inch of the top of the iron; return at once to the 
fat and hold there until the batter is crisp and lightly colored, 
then remove from the iron and turn upside down on soft paper 
to drain. If, on dipping the iron into the batter, the batter 
does not cling to it, the iron has not been heated enough. If 
the fat sizzles considerably, and the case spreads out and 
drops from the iron, the mould is too hot. If the iron be 
lowered too far into the batter, the case will spread over the 
top of the iron and be troublesome to remove. The finished 
cases should be very thin, delicate, and crisp. With exper- 
ience these are very easily made. They may be purchased at 
a caterer's, as also a pressed croustade or case made of a 
similar batter, but without frying. For salpicon to serve in 
these cases, see page 246. 

V 

COLP ENTREES, AS ASPICS, CHAUDFROIDS, 

MOUSSES, ETC. 

Probably the handsomest dishes, in all cookery, are those 
which come under the head of cold- entrees. Especially is 
this the case when aspic-jelly enters into the cpmpositjpn of 
the dish and fresh vegetable salads lend their presence to the 
garniture of the same. 

ASPIC-JELLY 

Aspic is a transparent jelly made of stoek or standard broth, 
clarified and variously flavored. Consomm^ made by the 
reeipe given on page 199, gives a fpi^indation for one of the 
best of aspic-jellies, but any of the standard broths, meat or 
fish, either alone or in suitable combinations, may be used- 
Chicken or veal stock alone gives a very delicately tinted 
aspic. To each five cups of any of these liquids neefis be 
added two ounces of gelatine, softened in a cup of cold water 
and such additional flavoring as is desired. The whole is 
then clarified with white of eggs or r9.w meat, one or hoth- 
(See plearing of soup stock, page 196.) Where transparency 
is no object, as when aspic is used in creams, pr when it is 



274 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

added to mayonnaise or other sauce, any uncleared standard 
broth answers every purpose. In these, cases two ounces of 
gelatine should be allowed for each five cups of stock and 
cream or sauce used in the composition of the dish. The 
natural color of aspic jelly is often heightened, and for fish 
and salads it is tinted a delicate green. When the consomm^ 
has been already finished and cleared for the table, it may be 
transformed into aspic-jelly simply by the addition of the 
gelatine. As: 

RECIPE FOR ASPIC JELLY 

5 cups of cleared consomm^. i cup of cold water. 
2 ounces of gelatine. 

Let the gelatine stand in the cold water until thoroughly 
softened, (a granulated or pulverized gelatine dissolves in a 
very few minutes); heat the consomm^ and pour over the 
gelatine, strain and it is ready for use. 

ASPIC JELLY WITH BEEF EXTRACT 

1-4 a cup of chopped onion. 2 sprigs of parsley. 

1-4 a cup of chopped carrot. 3 tablespoonfuls of tarragon 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. vinegar. 

2 stalks of celery. i quart of water. 

1-2 a cup of mushroom 3 teaspoonfuls of beef extract. 

trimmings. 2 cups of boiling water. 

I bay leaf. 2 ounces of gelatine. 

6 pepper corns or The yellow rind of a lemon. 
A piece of red pepper. 1 cup of cold water. 

3 cloves. The white and shell of i egg. 

Cook the onion, carrot, celery, mushroom trimmings, bay 
leaf, and parsley in the butter; add the pepper, cloves, vinegar, 
lemon rind, and quart of water; let simmer very gently an 
hour and strain over the beef extract dissolved in the hot 
water, then add the gelatine softened in the cold water, 
and when cooled, the white of egg slightly beaten and 
the crushed shell (more shells are of advantage). Bring the 
liquid slowly to the boiling point, stirring constantly mean- 
while; let boil three minutes, then remove to a cooler part of 
the range to simmer fifteen minutes; skim carefully, then 



TO MOULD APSIC JELLY 275 

strain through double folds of cheesecloth laid inside a colander 
or strainer. 

WAYS OF USING ASPIC JELLY' 

Aspic-jelly may be: 

1. Cut into separate or distinct pieces, either fine or coarse, 
called chopped aspic. These may be used to surround a dish 
of cold meat cut in slices, or piled like a rosette on slices of cold 
meat, or, if cut fine, put on to the article as "piping. " 

2. It may be moulded in half- inch sheets and stamped out 
with fanciful-shaped cutters, dipped in hot water, or moulded 
in thicker sheets and cut with a knife, dipped in hot water, into 
pyramids, triangles, blocks, etc. Thus cut it is used to gar- 
nish large objects moulded in aspic. 

3. Aspic-jelly is moulded either plain or decorated with 
capers, bits of cooked white of egg and truffles, leaves of pars- 
ley or cress, in fanciful-shaped moulds, to garnish large objects 
moulded in aspic. 

4. It is used to line moulds the centres of which are to be 
filled with salads, mousses, creams, etc., stiffened with gelatine 
or aspic. 

5. To hold up and surround pieces of fish, meat, etc., or 
whole objects, as boned and stuffed birds and fowl. 

6. To coat with a glossy surface objects, or pieces of fish, 
meat, etc., covered with a mixture of sauce and aspic, called 
chaudfroids. 

TO MOULD ASPIC JELLY 

For use in the first two ways, turn the liquid when cold, but 
before it begins to set, into perfectly clean and chilled pans 
of a size the required thickness demands. Always be careful 
that any dish containing aspic stands perfectly level. 

For use in the third way, simply pour the cooled aspic into 
the chilled moulds, unless the moulds are to be decorated. In 
this latter case, turn the chilled mould with a tablespoonful 
— less or more, according to the size of the mould — of chilled 
aspic round and round until the surface is lightly coated; 
set in ice and water until firm enough to keep in place, then 
arrange upon it the decorations, adding a drop of aspic to 



276 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

each, to hold it in place. Let the chilled but liquid aspic stand, 
meanwhile, in a saucepan of lukewarm water, in order to keep 
it in the right condition to use. After the decoration is 
firmly set, cover with more aspic, and when that is set, add a 
stoned or stuffed olive or any trifle that is desired; keep this 
in place with a drop or two of aspic and then gradually fill 
the mould. The same method is employed when the aspic 
is used for the fifth purpose. 

When the aspic is used to line a mould to the depth of half 
an inch or more, two moulds of the same shape, one larger than 
the other, are needed. Charlotte moulds are the style most 
often used. This is called double moulding. 

DOUBLE MOULDING 

Select two moulds similar in shape, one an inch or more 
larger than the other. Set the larger mould in a pan of ice 
and water, pour in liquid jelly to the depth of an inch and, 
when chilled and firm, place the smaller mould filled with ice 
upon the jelly and exactly in the centre; add water to the 
ice, then fill the outside mould with the liquid jelly ; let stand 
until firm, then dip out the ice and water from the inner 
mould, replace with warm water and at once lift out the 
smaller mould ; fill the open space to within an inch of the top 
with the salad mixture, cream or mousse preparation, or what- 
ever is desired, and when this is firm cover with liquid aspic. 

TO UNMOULP ASPIC OR OTHER JELLIES, ETC. 

Immerse the mould tp the height of the contents in warm- — 
not hot— water; with a pointed knife loosen if necessary th« 
jelly at the upper edge, turning the mould meanwhilig from 
side to side, to make sure that the jelly has separated from the 
sides; then invert on the serving-dish and carefully lift the 
mould, 

A delicate jelly cannot be easily moved after it has fallen 
from the mould, and care should be exercised, at first, to 
place it evenly in the centre of the dish. If unmoulded on a 
lace or dish paper, the jelly may be moved on the paper, Tq 
change the position on a dish, when no paper has been used, 



CHICKEN CUTLETS WITH CRESS SALAD 277 

carefully replace the mould over the mixture, then invert both 
together and separate the jelly from the dish with a spatula. 

TO COAT CHAUDFROIDS WITH ASPIC JELLY 

If the object covered with chaudfroid sauce be small, hold 
it on a broad knife-blade and pour the liquid aspic over it. 
A large object may be set on a meat-rack over a large dish. 
The aspic may be put on with a brush; a spoon, however, is 
usually preferable. 

TOMATO JELLY 

Tomato jelly is not a clear, transparent, sparkling jelly 
like aspic; but it looks and tastes well and is easily made. 
Being opaque, it is used as a garnish rather than as a vehicle 
for holding other articles. 

RECIPE FOR TOMATO JELLY 

2 1-2 cups of cooked tomatoes. A piece of red pepper pod or a 

A slice of onion. few drops of tabasco sauce. 

A stalk of celery. 1-2 a cup or more of mush- 

A bay leaf. room parings. 

2 cloves. 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vin- 

1-2 a teaspoonful of Salt. egar. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 1-2 a box (i ounce) of gelatine. 

Cook the tomatoes (canned tomatoes are usually thus used), 
with all the ingredients, except the last three, fifteen minutes; 
add the vinegar and the gelatine, softened in cold water and 
stir until the gelatine is dissolved, then strain and mould. If 
bright-colored jelly be desired, strain through a sieve just 
fine enough to hold back the seeds. A less dense and lighter- 
colored jelly results, when the mixture is strained slowly . 
through a cheesecloth. 

RECIPES 
CHICKEN CUTLETS WITH CRESS SALAD 

Chill a thin layer of aspic jelly in cutlet moulds; decorate 
with figures, cut from cooked white of egg, and olives or pickles. 
Sprinkle with sifted yolk of egg and cover with aspic. When 
firm, put in a layer of cold cooked chicken and ham sliced 



278 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

very thin, and cover with more aspic. When cold turn from 
the moulds against a mound of watercress dressed with French 
dressing (see page 353). Garnish the top of the inound with 
mayonnaise and pass mayonnaise separately. 

TONGUE MOULDED IN ASPIC JELLY 

For this dish a fresh tongue may be used, but a pickled tongue 
is preferable. Boil or braise the tongue until very, tender 
(see page 131). Remove the skin and return the tongue to the 
liquid in which it was cooked to cool partly, then cover and 
set aside until cold and ready to use. Trim oS the unedible 
portion of the tongue, and remove any globules of fat that 
may have settled upon it, cut in slices of uniform thickness, 
and trim these into rounds. Select rounds of the same size, 
for lining the mould, and use the others for filling. Prepare 
enough aspic jelly to fill the mould without regard to the 
other articles to be used ; this is a safe plan to follow in nearly 
all cases. Wipe the slices of pickle dry before dipping them 
in the jelly. In filling the mould, do not use the aspic in 
which the tongue and pickle have been dipped, as it will be 
more or less cloudy after use. Avoid having one layer of 
material set too solid before another is added or the moulded 
form will separate at this place when turned out. If the 
jelly be in the right condition, the tongue and other materials 
chilled and the mould set in ice and water, the filling of the 
tnould may be an almost continuous operation. Chill an 
eighth of an inch of jelly in the bottom of the mould and set 
in ice and water. When nearly firm dispose on this a ring 
of slices of "hard-boiled" egg with a slice of the same in the 
centre of the ring, and add a few drops of jelly to each, which 
when set will hold the slice in place. Against the sides and 
close to the bottom of the mould dispose a ring of slices of 
cucumber-pickle, one overlapping another. Dip each slice in 
liquid aspic before pressing it against the side of the mould. 
When these are firmly fixed in place, fill the mould to nearly 
same height with slices of tongue and pour in jelly to fill up 
the space between the slices. Above the slices of pickle 
arrange a' circle with slices of tongue, one slice overlapping 




TONGUE MOULDUD IN ASPIC JELLV. (Sec page 278.) 




CHAUDFROID OF TONGUE WITH CUBES OF ASPIC JELLY. 
(See pages 275 and 2S2.) 



-■x^ 




CHAUDFKOID OF MUTTON CHOPS. (See pagt 283-) 



BONED QUAIL IN ASPIC JELLY 279, 

another, in direction opposite to that in which the pickle slices 
overlap, and fill the centre with slices of tongue, pickles, and 
capers, if desired, covering each, as added, with jelly. Finish 
lining and filling the mould in the same manner. Let stand 
some hours on ice, if convenient. When turned from the 
mould garnish with cress and lengthwise quarters of hard- 
boiled eggs. 

TIMBALKS OF HAM IN CHICKEN ASPIC 

Pound two cups of boiled ham, chopped fine in a meat- 
cutter, and four tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing to a 
smooth paste; gradually stir into this a cup and a quarter of 
chicken aspic, just on the point of "setting. " Chicken liquor 
flavored with vegetables, herbs, and spices, in which half 
an ounce of gelatine has been dissolved, answers every purpose 
in this case. Have ready standing in ice water timbale moulds, 
decorated with lengthwise slices of olives, and above either 
sifted yolk or fine-chopped white of "hard-boiled" eggs, 
mixed with enough liquid jelly to hold the egg together. 
Pour this mixture into the moulds,, to make an even layer of 
the same height in each, then fill the moulds with the liquid 
ham mixture. Serve turned from the moulds on a bed of 
heart leaves of lettuce, sprinkled with shreds of olives, red 
rhilies, or shreds of cooked sweet pepper and tiny strips of 
cooked ham or bacon, dressed with French dressing. 

TIMBALES OF LOBSTER IN ASPIC 

Decorate the bottom and sides of individual timbale moulds 
with slices of cucumber-pickle and large capers, set in a little 
liquid aspic. When nearly set fill the moulds with lobster, 
cut in cubes and mixed with liquid mayonnaise aspic (see 
page 274). Serve with lettuce leaves seasoned with French 
dressing. 

BONED QUAILS IN ASPIC JELLY 

6 boned quails. 2 ounces of foie gras. 

I cup of cooked chicken breast 1-2 a cup of tomato sauce. 

or meat from quails. i cup of liquid aspic. 
6 mushrooms. 



aScj PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Wipe the boned qtlails iiiside and out, and put Itito the body 
df each a cylindrical piece of raw carrot of potato, to keep it 
in shape. Pare and dry and btltter the vegetables before! tisitig 
them. Brush with melted biittei' and ti6 each in a folded 
paper, buttered. Rbast about twenty minutes. When cold 
remove the papers, potatoes arid trussing twine, arid With a 
forcing-bag and tube fill the birds with a salpicori made by 
stirring the chicken breast, cooked mushrooms and foie-gras, 
all cut in tiny cubes, into the cold tomato sauce, mixed with 
the aspic. Add the aspic to the tomato sauce, while both are 
slightly warm, and stir While cooling in ice Water, thcri add the 
Solid irigfediettts and fill the bitds with the mixture before it 
begins to set. Let the bifds become chilled, theri with a 
knife, Wet in hot water, cut each iri halves. Cover with chaud- 
froid sauce arid theri with liquid aspic. Dress for Servifig 
against a rice crdustadei Pipe chopped jelly betWeeft the 
birds arid on the Lop of the croustade. 

COLD SOUFFLE OF CHICKEN AND TONGUE 

I cup of liquid aspic. i cup df double cream. 

1-2 a cup of tomato pur^e. i-2 a cup of chopped (Cooked) 

I tablespOonful of talragOn chicken. 

virtegdr. 1-2 a cup of chopped (cooked) 

Salt and pepper. pickled tongue. 

3 or 4 chopped truffles. 

To make the -tomato pur^e, cook the tomatoes until' some- 
what evaporated, then pass through a pur^e sieve and let 
chill. Beat the cold but still liquid aspic with the tomato 
purde and the vinegar until very foamy ; add gradually to the 
chopped meat, then add the cream b aten sol d, al o a part of 
the truffles ) with salt and pepper to taste; turn into a souffle 
dish^-^ small-size dish is needed-^with a band of paper, 
fastened about and extending above the dish about an inch. 
Sprinkle the top with the rest of the chopped t uffles and 
set aside in ari ice "cave" — a pail that can be clo ed to keep 
out salt water will answer the purpose. Let stand an hour 
in crushed ice and salt. Remove the paper band, before 
serving. Pass at the same time a greeft vegetable salad. 



CHAUDFROIDS 281 

CREAM OF GHICKEM, GLACfi 

I Clip of double cream. Salt, paprika and celery p6p- 

1-2 a cup of chicken aspic. . per. 

I cup of cooked chicken breast cut in cubes. 

Have the chicken breast cut into one-fourth an inch cubes. 
Add the seasonings to the creatn arid beat soHd; pOUr over 
the cream the aspic, which should be cold but liquid, add the 
chicken cubes and cut and fold the cubes and jelly into the 
cfeariij When beginning to Sdt turn the nlixture intd a brick 
mould and chill thoroughly on ice. To serve, urimotild as any 
jelly, cut into slices half an inch thick, arid these in halves, as 
the mixture is rich. With forcing-bag arid tube decorate each 
slice with chicken pur^e, tinted a delicate green with vegetable 
color paste, then chill again. The most satisfactory way of 
serving is on individual plates* each resting on a lettuce leaf 
dressed with French dressing, or on cress leaves and tips, or 
lettuce cut in ribbons and moistened with French dressing. 

CHICKEN PUREE FOR GARNISH OF ABOVE 

1-2 a cupof cooked chicken pulp. fepper and salt. 
1-4 a cup of Bechamel Saiide. i cup of liquid aspic jelly. 

1-4 a cup of cream. 

Measure the chicken after it has been chopf)ed, pounded 
and sifted; add the other ingredients gradually In the order 

given. 

CHAUDFROIDS 

The pleasing appearance of a chaudfroid depends entirely 
upon the perfect shape of the article selected and the smOoth=^ 
ness which its surface is masked. In the rdcipe for chaud- 
froid sauce given on page 2ji, softened gelatine is added to 
an ordinary sauce nlade with toux. Oftentimes as aspic is 
used in these dishes, it is more convenient to stibstitute 
this in place of gelatine. Being more dilute than solid gelatine 
the foundation sauce needs be thicker. Use one^foUrth a cup, 
each, of butter and flour (double the usual quaritity) to one 
cup of brown or white stock, tomato pur^e or brown stock 
and tomatd pur^e combined (terra^cbtta color results frOm 
this latter combination). To this sauce add while hdt from 



282 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

half to an equal quantity of aspic. The sauce is ready to 
apply when it coats a spoon smoothly, covering imperfections 
of color. When the sauce is of right temperature, set the 
saucepan containing it in a dish of lukewarm water, reheating 
the water as it cools. 

CHAUDFROID OF TONGUE WITH CUBES OF 
ASPIC JELLY 

Cut out the thick portion of a cold cooked and trimmed 
tongue, leaving a thin strip at the bottom to hold the rest in 
shape. Cut the portion in thin slices and return to its original 
place in the tongue ; brush the edges with aspic and'the tongue 
to all appearance will be whole again. Dip the tip and oppos- 
ite end of the tongue into melted gelatine and hold in place 
on a meat-board or dish, until the gelatine is set and the tongue 
firmly adheres. Cover the tongue, which should be chilled 
by standing on ice, with brown chaudf roid sauce (see page 231) 
and, when set, decorate the surface with sprigs of parsley and 
bits of cooked white of egg, first dipping each piece on the end 
of a larding-needle into liquid aspic. When fixed in place 
cover with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and let stand to become 
firm. Have ready a large mound of aspic jelly cut in cubes; 
upon this dispose the tongue. and surround the whole with 
triangles of pickled beet. 

CHAUDFROID OF SUPREME OF CHICKEN 

Prepare and cook a dozen "fillets of chicken, plain" (page 
270). Set to press under a weight and when cold trim them 
neatly and cover with tomato chaudfroid sauce; when the 
sauce has set, decorate one-half of the fillets with pieces of 
truffle, to form a star, and the other half with pieces of hard- 
boiled white of egg, to form the same design; pour over the 
fillets a little liquid aspic, to set the decoration and give a 
glossy surface. Chop a little aspic very fine, and with forcing- 
bag and plain tube dispose this around the edge of each fillet. 
Set aside to become thoroughly chilled. Mix a cup in all of 
cooked peas, asparagus-tips, tiny rounds of carrot, and cubes 
of turnip, half a cup of mayonnaise dressing, and a cup and 
one-half of liquid aspic. Stir these gently together on ice 




CREAM OF CHICKEN GLACE, WITH CRESS SALAD. 
(See page 2.Sr.} 




TIMBALES OF HAM IN CHICKEN ASPIC. (See page 279.) 




CHICKEN CUTLETS WITH C.'.i._j '_-"_L-lL> \" I' " \'< JNAISE 
DRESSING (See page 277.) 



CHAUDFROID OF SWEETBREADS 283 

until beginning to set, then turn into a concave border mould 
and set aside to become firm. When ready to serve unmould 
the jellied macedoine on a serving-dish, arrange the fillets 
upon it, one overlapping another, and fill the centre with some 
of the vegetables used in the moulded macedoine, dressed 
with either French or mayonnaise dressing. Surround the 
whole with chopped aspic. Medallions of sweetbread, fillets 
of birds, etc. may be substituted for the chicken fillets. 

CHAUDFROID OF LAMB OR MUTTON CHOPS 

Have the chops cut of uniform thickness. If the chop bones 
are not to be retained, use the "best end of the loin" dressed 
by the directions given on page 269. If the chop bone be 
retained, the chops will be too thick for this purpose unless a 
thin chop of varying thickness without bone be cut from 
between the chops with bones. Cut in the latter fashion, 
trim neatly, retaining only tender meat. Braise the chops, 
until tender, with fine-cut vegetables, partly cool in the liquid, 
then finish cooling under a weight. Pare the ice-cold chops 
very neatly and cover with brown or terra-cotta chaudfroid 
sauce (see page 281). When this is set, decorate with capers 
and figures cut from cooked white of egg. When these are 
firmly fixed in place, cover lightly with aspic jelly and sift ■ 
cooked yolk of egg around the edge. Dress the chops, resting 
on heart leaves of lettuce, against a macedoine of vegetable 
salad. Cover the ends of the bones with paper frills. 

CHAUDFROID OF SWEETBREADS 

Cut the parboiled-and-cooled sweetbreads into halves and 
cover with chaudfroid sauce (see page 281). Decorate the 
sauce with bits of truffle and white of hard-boiled egg. When 
the sauce with decoration is "set, " brush or pour over it some 
liquid aspic jelly and set aside to become thoroughly chilled. 
Serve with lettuce, celery, cress or tomato salad dressed with 
mayonnaise. Arrange half a tomato and a slice of sweet- 
bread, alternately, in two tows on a dish with heart leaves 
of lettuce between. Pass mayonnaise in a separate dish. 



CHAPTER IX 



Vetetablfeg artd Their Cookery 

"How many things by season seasoned are 
to their right praise and true perfection ! '* 

^^Merchant of Venice. 



AVERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF VEGETABLES AS 
• PURCHASED (aTWATER) 



Per 
ce'iit. 

Aspafdgiis 

Beansy Butter 

greeri ; ; 5d. 

Beans, dri€d < 

Beans, Lima 

dried 

Beans, Lima 

fresh SS-° 

Beans, sttihg 

ft-esh 7 . d 

Beets, fresh. ...... 20 . d 

Cabbage, fresh ...15.0 

Carrots, fresh 20. 

Cauliflower, fresh ; . . 

Celery j 20.0 

Com, green 61 ; 

Cucumbers 15. 

Egg plant, edible 

portidri 

Lentils, dried 

Lfetttifcfe 15.0 

MUshtootiis 

Okra ..;... 1 2 ; 5 



Water 
Pet 
cent. 

94. a 

29.4 
12.6 



10.4 
30-8 
83." 

ya.c) 

77-7 
70.6 

Si*-3 
75 -6 
29.4 
81. 1 



92. 
8. 

8d. 



Pittteiil 

Per 

cehf. 

X.8 



4.7 
2^.5 

18: 1 



2 . 1 

1-3 
1.4 

•9 
1.8 

•9 
1.2 

•7 



1 . 2 

2S-7 
1.0 

3^S 
1.4 

284 



Fai 
Per 

cent. 
. 2 



Carbo • 

Hydfates 
Pei- 
cent. 

3-3 



•3 


14. 


.8 


59- 


■S 


65- 


•3 


9- 


•3 


6. 


. I 


7- 


. 2 


4- 


. 2 


7- 


•S 


4- 


. I 


:d . 


■ 4 


7- 


. 3 


2; 


■3 


s- 


.6 


59- 


. 2 


i. 


• 4 


6. 


. :^ 


6. 



Ash 
Per 

cent. 

• 7 



1.0 



9 , 4-1 
9 .g 



•7 
■5i 
■9 
•9 
'7 

;8 

'3 
•4 

■S 

5-7 

.g 

i; 2 
■S 



Fuel val. 

per-lb. 

Calories 

105 



37° 
1.605 

1.625 

I80 
170 

125 
160 
140 

70 
180 

70 

136 

1 .62d 

75 
210 



VEGETABLES AND THEIR COOKERY 285 



Refuse Water 

Psr Par 

cent. cent. 

Onions, fresh ....lo.o 78.9 

Parsnips 20.0 66 r4 

Peas, green 45 ■ o 40 . 8 

Potatoes, fresh. . . ia.o 6? . 6 

Potatoes, sweet, 

fresh 20.9 55. 2 

Spipach 92.3 

Squash . , 5 50 ■ o 44 . 2 

Tomgitoes, fresh .... 94-3 

Turnips 30.0 6^.7 



Protein 
Per 
cent. 

1-4 
1-3 
3-6 
1,8 

i.4 

3.1 

.7 

•9 

•9 



Fat 
Per 
cent. 

3 
4 
2 
J 

6 

3 
2 

4 

I 



CsrJjQr 

hydrates 

Per 

cent. 



8, 
10 

9 
14 



Ash 
Per 
cent. 

5 
I 
6 



Fuel val. 

per lb. 

Calories 

205 

240 

2SS 

310 

460 
no 
los 
los 
125 



The vegetarian society will not have existed in vain, if it 
does nothing more than teach a goodly number pf housewives 
how to cook vegetables properly and in more ways than one, 
viz : simply boiled and buttered. For this branch of cookery is 
much neglected. It is safe to say that not more than one 
family in twenty, and perhaps not in fifty, ever cook celery, 
save in soup, or squash and turnip other than as plain boiled 
or mashed, while potatoes are either plain boiled, boiled and 
mashed or fried. 

In the cooking of vegetables the economical and thrifty 
housekeeper can find fit place for the expression of her genius. 
The flavor of meat is a pleasing one, but meat in roasts and 
broiling pieces is the most expensive and not infrequently the 
least satisfactory item of food that is purchased. The French 
or Italian housekeeper, with small expenditure of money, 
adds meat flavor to the cooked vegetables.-^beans, cabbage, 
cauliflqwer, macaroni, rice, etc., and thus renders a cheap 
though nutritious food palatable. Cheese also combines 
well with many vegetables as it does also with grains and 
macaroni. This making of inexpensive food materials ap^ 
petizing is the one great end in cookery that the American 
cook needs to attain. 

It will be seen by the analyses given at the head of the chap^ 
ter that many of the fresh vegetables do not possess a high 
food value, but they are very valuable at all seasons on account 
of the saline elements which they contain, and in the summer 



286 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

season, when the heat of the body needs to be regulated, they 
provide for the system large sources of pure water. Different 
vegetables possess different saline elements, all of which are 
needed by the system, and each vegetable in season should be 
given a place on the table. 

In hot-houses lighted by electric lights, market gardeners 
can transform the short dark days of the winter solstice into 
long, light, and growing days — such as are needed for the 
rapid growth of plant and vegetable. Still, there are but 
few forced vegetables and fruits that possess the genuine 
flavor of those that are grown in the natural manner. As a 
rule, when food is most cheap and plentiful, it is at its best; 
out of season, it is expensive and lacking in flavor and quality. 
In the early spring, the provident housekeeper will still make 
use, to a great extent, of such vegetables and fruits as are 
seasonable throughout the year, together with such dried 
articles as she has found most wholesome and palatable, ever 
bearing in mind how "all things come to him who will but 
wait. " On account of their tough cellular structure, by far 
the greater number of vegetables are eaten cooked. Their 
digestibility depends upon the degree of tenderness that can 
be given to their cellular tissue. Of course, the quantity and 
toughness of cellulose in vegetable products depend much 
upon the kind of plant, the soil, and the season in which 
it is grown; but under the most favorable cultivation this 
framework cannot be entirely eliminated, so that, first of all, 
thorough cooking, by which it is softened, is enjoined; soft 
water is an aid in this process, and, where this is not at hand, 
the solvent property of the water may be enhanced by the use 
of a few grains of cooking soda. This addition is less objec- 
tionable in the case of strong-juiced vegetables, like cabbage 
and onions, cooked in a large quantity of water to lessen the 
disagreeable flavor or constituents (as sulphur), and from 
which the water is to be carefully drained before serving. 
Quite a different plan should be pursued with the sweet- 
juiced vegetables, as peas and young beans. Of these soda 
would destroy the delicate green color, while salt would in- 
tensify it; little salt, however, should be used, as the water. 



USE OP SALT IN BOILING VEGETABLES 287 

in which these vegetables are cooked, holds in solution much 
of the sweet juices and mineral salts, their most valuable con- 
stituents, and should be retained for serving with them. 

Rapid cooking is desirable for strong-juiced vegetables, 
while a gentle simmering is preferable for the sweet-juiced 
varieties. When the vegetable is to be dressed with butter, 
the heat of the vegetable should be sufficient to melt the 
butter. 

USE OF SALT IN BOILING VKGETABLES 

Salt is added to vegetables for savor and, in some cases, to 
help retain the color of green-colored vegetables, as spinach, 
peas, asparagus, etc. .Salt tends to draw out the juices and 
toughen fibre. Consequently, if color and savor are preferred 
to texture, or if the vegetables are quickly grown, fresh, and 
tender, use salt. If the vegetables are wilted and in con- 
sequence liable to be tough, add the salt just as they are done, 
thereby sacrificing color to tenderness. Potatoes, either 
white or sweet, that are usually tender when boiled, are best 
boiled in salted water. All vegetables may be made more 
delicate in flavor by blanching. To blanch, cover the vege- 
table with cold water, let boil five minutes, then drain and 
rinse in cold water; drain again, then cook as usual.' 

Those who live in the country may plant a garden, have a 
"canner" of some kind, and, in time of plenty, "put up" 
vegetables and fruit for winter use. Even those v/ho have no 
fruit-trees often put up fruit. Young and tender asparagus, 
peas, string beans, beets, and sweet com, when these are ob- 
tainable, may be canned most successfully, and prove truly 
delectable in taste. But, when the home supplies run short, 
then is the time to find out the possibilities of dried vegetables 
and fruit; and few know how tempting they may be made. 
Dried lima beans, lentils, and flageolets (French beans), 
soaked in cold water over night, cook quickly, and may be 
served with butter, cream or sauces; with more labor, they 
may be transformed into soups, croquettes, souffles, salads, 
etc. Tomatoes in combination or in sauces give variations 
to these dishes and, combined with a suspicion of onion, 



288 PRACTICAIv COOKING AND SERVING 

impart flavor, which at thg present time is demanded in all 
good cookery. 

Once having tried celery au gratin — celery alone or with 
cheese and oysters, — or celery in a brown sauce flavored with 
kitchen bouquet, no part of the head of celery need go to waste. 
Of course, in any of these dishes whole heads of celery may 
be used, but, as a matter of economy, the tender inner stalks 
may be reserved for a "savory, " and the coarse outer stalks, 
that are not palatable uncooked, may be presented in one of 
the most pleasing little entries mentioned above. These, 
properly seasoned and flavored, in addition to their palata- 
bjlity give quite an "air" to an ordinary, home dinner. Note 
that the celery will need cooking at least an hour. 

STEAMING VEGETABLES 

Vegetables fronj which the liquid is to be drained may be 
more satisfactorily cooked by steaming than by boiling. This 
is especially true of squash and vegetables belonging to the 
cabbage family. As rapid cooking is desirable, the steamer 
may be placed directly over the fire. Then if the steamer 
be properly constructed and the range connected with the 
chimngy, all odor from the cooking vegetables is carried out 
of the hoTlse up the chimney. If plenty of water be supplied 
at the start, the gteamgr need not be opened except to test the 
extent of cooking. 

WHEN PREPARING CANNED VEGETABLES 

It is well to remember that all canned goods are better, 
if the cans be opened some little time before using, that the 
contents may come in contact with a fresh supply of oxygen. 
It is needless to add, perhaps, that it is a wholesome precaution 
to remove the contents from the can at once, after it ha§ been 
opened. Acid fruits, tomatoes, etc., must be removed at 
OJice, pr ill effects may result from their use.' 

Peas, beans, and, in fact, all vegetables, used apart from 
the liquid in which they are preserved, should be thoroughly 
rinsed in cold water, and then scalded quickly in hot water, 
and drained. They are then ready for seasoning and serving 



BAKED POTATOES 289 

in any manner desired; a little sugar (a teaspoonful to a can) 
will improve the taste of peaa. Rusty or leaky cans, or cans 
bulging at the end, should always be discarded. To simplify 
the matter of cooking vegetables, the things to be determined 
are : is salt or no salt to he used ? is much or little water required ? 
shoiiid this be hot or cold ? and also is the cooking to be slow 
or rapid ? These things can be best determined by considering 
whether the vegetable in question be strong or sweet juiced, 
fresh gathered, wilted or dried. 

potatoes (strong juiced) 

"perfect" potatoes 

Select ripe new potatoes and scrub them until the outer 
skin is removed; boil quickly in boiling salted water, drain 
perfectly dry and dust Hg'htly with salt from the dredger^ 
cover with a cloth and keep hot on the back of the range. 
Fold the potatoes, singly, in a hot, dry cloth, twist the ends of 
the cloth in opposite directions tightly, then drop the dry 
mealy potato, w'hite as snow, into the serving-dish. Serve 
before they have become cold. 

IMITATION NEW POTATOES (THE HOTEL MONTHLY) 

Kok out small, round, ripe potatoes, wash and peel them. 
Put them into a cheesecloth sack and tie the top. Have 
ready a saucepan containing venough .of equal parts of milk 
and water (slightly salted) to cover the potatoes. Simmer 
slowly until they are done. Lift out the sack, allow them to 
drain on a colander a few minutes, then place in the oven to 
dry five minutes. Prepare a rich cream, sauee seasoned with 
butter and salt. Remove potatoes from the sack, put them 
in a saucepan over hot Water, and cover with the sauce. 
Serve in a deep vegetable dish. 

BAKED POTATOES 

First scrub thoroughly with a vegetable brush, then .pnait into 
a hot oven. Potatoes of moderate size require in baking about 



290 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

forty-five minutes ; they are at their best as soon as they are soft 
throughout. As the heat is usually strongest from above, turn 
the potatoes, occasionally, to insure even baking. On removal 
from the oven, break the skin, to let the steam escape, lest the 
naturally dry, mealy potato become "soggy " from the quickly 
condensing steam. A potato baked in a slow oven is less 
digestible than the same when properly boiled. ' 

BOILED POTATOES 

Whether potatoes are to be pared after scrubbing is a mat- 
ter of taste as well as economy and needs be decided in each 
individual case. (The United States Government has recently 
furnished opportunity for experiments by which the exact 
quantity of nutritive elements wasted by cooking pared 
potatoes, both before and after soaking in cold water, could 
be determined.) Cooked without paring, the skins hold back 
mineral salts some proteid and starch, hence where a dietary 
is restricted it were well to retain the skin. Old potatoes that 
have lost water by evaporation will be better, if they be soaked 
in cold water, or at least put over the fire to cook in cold water. 
Let the potatoes be of uniform size and, if large, cut in halves 
lengthwise. Rapid boiling pulverizes the outside before the 
centre becomes tender. After the potatoes have become 
tender proceed as for "perfect " potatoes, omitting the twisting 
in the cloth. 

RICED POTATOES 

Pass through a ricer eight hot boiled potatoes; add three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, and about 
half a cup of hot milk or cream; beat thoroiighly with per- 
forated cake-spoon, and pass through the ricer or vegetable- 
press about the meat. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Prepare as riced potatoes; beat until very light and fluffy, 
and pile irregularly in a serving- dish, putting a bit of butter 
here and there in the depressions. 



POTATO ROSES 291 

POTATOES TO SERVE WITH FISH 

Pass hot mashed potatoes through a ricer. Add a generous 
piece of butter, a little salt and hot milk or cream, as needed. 
Beat thoroughly, and press firmly into a buttered tin. Have 
the potato about half an inch thick. Cut into diamond-shaped 
pieces, and score diagonally with a skewer dipped in melted 
butter. Brush over with yolk of an egg, beaten with a table- 
spoonful of milk, and brown in the oven. Serve with a tea- 
spoonful of peas, in a thick cream sauce, in the centre of each 
piece. The mixture needs to be dry to retain its shape after 
heating. 

POTATO CAKES 

Shape mashed potato left from dinner into small fiat cakes. 
Dip in sifted flour and saut^ first one side and then the 
other in hot salt-pork or bacon fat. 

DUCHESS POTATOES 

To about a pint of hot riced potatoes add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of three 
eggs, and enough hot cream or milk to let the mixture pass 
easily through a forcing-bag with tube attached. Shape as 
desired; brush over with a little beaten egg, diluted with milk 
or water, and brown in a hot oven. 

POTATO ROSES 

Fill the forcing-bag with duchess potato mixture (white or 
sweet). Hold the bag in an upright position, tube pointing 
downward, and force out the potato; at the proper nioment 
press the tube gently into the mixture and raise it quickly, to 
break the flow. To make another style of rose, use a six- 
pointed tube, points almost meeting. Hold the bag in a 
position at right angles to that indicated in the first case, and 
force out the potato in a deeply cleft cord, which is coiled 
round and round in smaller and smaller circles; or shape in 
bow knots. Shape the roses on a buttered tin sheet, brush 
over with beaten egg, diluted with milk or water, and brown in 
the oven. Remove with a spatula or broad-bladed knife, 



292 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and use as a garnish for meat or fish. When used as a border 
for a creamed dish, set closely together on the serving-dish, 
to avoid removal. Smaller roses may be arranged between the 
larger ones, so as to make a solid wall, to retain what may be 
served within. Sometimes the whole wall is biuilt up of small 
roses, in a manner similar to that in which children make burr 
baskets. 

POTATO CROQUETTES AND BOULETTES 

Omit the hot milk or cream and the yolks, of two of the eggs 
from the duchess potato mixture, add pepper and a few 
drops of onion juice, shape as desired, then egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry in deep fat. Add fine-chopped parsley and 
sweet herbs to the mixture, shape into balls .and finish as cro- 
quettes, and potato boulettes are formed. Make a well in a ball 
of the mixture, put into this a teaspoonful of peas, asparagus, 
cubes of chicken, etc., in cream sauce, cover with more of the 
potato mixture, shape as desired, egg-and-breadcrumb, and 
croquettes en surprise result. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES 

Pare five or six potatoes and cut in thin slices ; dispose these 
in a buttered baking-dish in layers; sprinkle the layers with 
salt and pepper, onion juice, and fine-chopped parsley, dredge 
with flour and add a few bits of butter. Pour just enough hot 
milk over the potatoes to cover them and bake in a moderate 
oven ahout an hour and a half. This dish may be prepared 
with cold, boiled potatoes and the time of cooking cut down 
nearly one-half; also the quantity of milk required is less. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES 

Pare the potatoes and parboil ten minutes ; drain and put on 
the rack in a pan in which meat is roasting; baste when the 
ineat is basted. Potatoes thus treated will bake in about 
forty-five minutes. Cook turnips and large or ripe cucumbers, 
pared and seeds removed, in the same fashion. 



SYRACUSE HOT SALT POTATOES 293 

BUTTERED POTATO, TURNIP OR CARROT BALLS 

With a French cutter, cut out potato balls ; cook until tender 
in boiling salted water; drain, pour over them a little melted 
butter and sprinkle with fine-chOpped parsley. Cook turnips 
of carrots in the same way. 

POTATOES A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL 

Boil one pint of potato balls, cut with French cutter, in 
boiling salted water about ten minutes ; drain, and add cxtie cup 
of milk. Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter, add the yolk 
of one egg, beat in well, add also one tablespoonful ,of lemon 
juice, one tablespoonful of chopped! parsley, half a, teaspoonful 
of salt, and a dash of paprika; and, when the milk is partly 
absorbed, stir into the potatoes quickly. 

BAKED POTATOES IN THE HALF SHELL 

Select shapely sweet potatoes of even size ; wash and scrub 
with care. Bake and cut in halves lengthwise. Remove the 
pulp from the skins and pass it through a ricer. Season with 
salt, butter, and cream. Beat until smooth, then refill the 
skins with the mixture, using pastry-bag and star tube. Re- 
heat before serving. If desired, dust the tops with powdered 
sugar and cinnamon before reheating. 

POTATOES ANNA 

Pare the potatoes (white or sweet) and cut them lengthwise 
into slices one-fourth an inch in thickness; carefully put the 
slices together, to retain the original shape of the potato, and 
then run two wooden toothpicks, dipped iii melted butter, 
through each potato, to hold the pieces together. Parboil ten 
minutes, then bake either with the it)ast or separately, basting 
with dripping from the roast. Remove the toothpicks; Serve 
as a garnish to the roast. 

SYRACUSE HOT SALT POTATOES (THE CATERER) 

Select potatoes of medium size and smooth skin and scrub 
cban; have ready a kettle of brine at the boiling point ; put in 



294 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

potatoes, cover and boil until tender; remove from the water 
and drain. Serve at once. The outside will be covered with 
salt crystals and the inside will be white and mealy.* 

PARISIAN POTATOES 

With French cutter (round vegetable spoon) cut out of un- 
cooked potatoes, pared, a pint of balls. Cook in boiling salted 
water about ten minutes, or until nearly tender; drain, and toss 
in a frying-pan, in which there are four tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter and a little salt. Set the pan in the oven, shak- 
ing it frequently, until the potatoes are thoroughly cooked and 
well browned. Add a little fresh butter,^ a dash of salt, if 
needed, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Toss the 
balls about, to distribute the ingredients evenly, and serve at 
once. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE 

Into a large flat-bottomed saucepan put one-fourth a cup of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When hot lay in raw, 
sweet potatoes pared and cut in halves, lengthwise, to cover the 
bottom ; season with salt and pepper and cover not very closely 
with another layer of potatoes. Pour on boiling water to half 
cover the lower layer, cover the vessel tightly and set where the 
heat is gentle. When the lower layer is browned, remove to 
the top, letting the other brown. When both layers are tender 
the water should have evaporated, leaving a little sauce to pour 
over the potatoes in the serving-dish. If preferred, this dish 
may be cooked in a casserole in the oven. 

SWEET POTATO-AND-ALMOND CROQUETTES 

Bake several sweet potatoes^ As soon as they are soft, 
break apart, scrape out the pulp, and pass through a squash 
strainer. To each pint of pulp add one teaspoonful of salt, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, one beaten egg, three tablespoon- 
fuls of blanched almonds, chopped and pounded in a mortar, 
and hot milk, or cream, to make of a consistency to handle. 
Form into, the shapes of apples and pears, egg-and-bread- 
. crumb and fry in deep fat. Finish with stalks of parsley for 
stems. 







UTENSILS FOR MAKING POTATO BASKETS OR NESTS. 
Handy sheer, French \-egetable cutter l'>r balls, wire baskets and 
Scotch bowl for frying. 







POTATO BASKETS FILLED WITH POTATO OLIVES AND BALLS. 

(See page 207.) 




BAKED POTATOES IN THE HALF SHELL. (See page 293-) 



POTATOES WARMED IN MILK 295 



CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

Pare and parboil half a dozen sweet potatoes, cut in halves 
lengthwise. After ten minutes' boiling, drain, and lay in a 
baking-dish. Spread thickly with butter, sprinkle with sugar, 
and, if desired, a little powdered cinnamon ; add a few spoon- 
fuls of hot water and bake until tender, basting often with the 
sauce in the pan. Use brown or maple sugar. 

BROILED POTATOES 

Halve lengthwise cold boiled potatoes, white or sweet; salt 
them hghtly, then dip in melted butter, turning them so as to 
cover all sides with the butter. Then dispose them on a 
double-broiler — an oyster or tomato broiler is admirable for 
this purpose — and broil over a moderate fire, first on one 
side and then on the other, until well browned. Serve on a 
folded napkin and a hot dish. 

DELMONICO POTATOES 

Chop cold, boiled potatoes into bits the sizd of peas; make a 
white sauce and stir the chopped potato into it, using a gen- 
erous cupful of potato to each cup of- sauce. Pour into a 
buttered pudding-dish, cover the top with buttered cracker- 
crumbs and bake about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

DELMONICO'S CREAM ROLL POTATOES 

Stir a generous pint of chopped potato (cold boiled) into a 
pint of cream or white sauce, seasoned with salt, onion juice 
or celery salt ; turn the mixture into a well-buttered frying- 
pan and cook (covered) in the oven until the sauce is absorbed 
with the exception of just enough to hold the bits of potato 
together. Fold one-half over the other, or roll from one side 
over and over as an omelet and turn onto a hot dish. Do not 
allow the potatoes to brown on the top or bottom. 

POTATOES WARMED IN MILK 

Melt two or three tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, 
and in it toss a pint of cold boiled potatoes sliced thin; when 
the butter is absorbed, sprinkle with salt and add enough milk 



296 PRACTICAL COOKING ANI> SERVING 

to show between the slices, cover andi let cook until the milk 
is nearly absorbed, then turn into a hot serving-dish. Sprinkle 
with fine-chopped parsley. 

SARATOGA AND BERNHARDT POTATOES 

With the proper utensils cut pared potatoes into uniform 
thin slices and curls. Let stand in ice water two houfs or 
more, changing the water once or twice. When ready to 
cook, fry a few slices at a time, in hot fat. The use of a basket 
makes draining a simple matter. Shake the basket over the 
kettle and turn the slices upon soft paper; let stand at the 
mouth of the oven until ready to serve. Sprinkle with salt 
before serving. Avoid having the fat too hot. When 
properly fried the slices are of straw color, crisp and tender. 
The fat should not register higher than 370°, when the potatoes 
are put in, and should fall during the cooking to 340° or 345°. 

POTATOES BAKED WITH CHEESE (GERMANY) 

4 large cold, boiled potatoes. 4 eggs. 

I pint of cream. 3 ounces of cheese. 

Salt and paprika. 

Cut the potatoes into thin slices and arrange in layers in a 
buttered dish; sprinkle each layer with cheese^ salt, and 
paprika and pouf over a little of the eggs, beaten and mixed 
with the cream. Bake about half an hour. Serve as a lunch- 
eon dish ; or at a family dinner with boiled ham, or broiled 
beefsteak. 

WHITE HASHED POTATOES 

Butter an omelet pan and put into it cold boiled potatoes 
chopped rather fine; sprinkle with a little salt, scatter bits of 
butter over the top, and pour over a little white stock or hot 
water. Cover and cook slowly until thoroughly heated 
through. Turn out carefully into a hot dish without stirring. 
Care needs be taken that the potato be not browned, but the 
stock and butter absorbed. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

Chop six cold boiled potatoes very fine, adding half a tea- 
gpoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Put one-fourth a cup 



WHOLE POTATOES, FRIED 297 

of fat into the frying-pan, and, when hot, put in the potatoes, 
and heat qtiickly and thoroughly. Press into one side of the 
pan to fortti an omelet. When well browned, drain off the fat 
and turn onto a dish. Fat tried out from salt pork is con- 
sidered the best. 

POTATO NESTS 

Fill the space between the wire baskets made for this pur- 
pose with raw potatoes, shredded or sUced, and fry one at a 
time in hot fat until tender and browned. Remove from the 
basket and drain on soft paper. Have ready potatoes, cut in 
small olive or ball shapes (French cutter) fried in hot fat, 
drained and, sprinkled with salt. Dispose these in the nests 
and sprijiikle with fine-chopped parsley. Serve on a folded 
napkin, or omit the napkin and surround with parsley. The 
wire baskets for shaping these nests come in several sizes. 
The small size is for individual service. The larger size is for 
serving three or four people. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Scrub and pare the potatoes and cut in eighths, lengthwise ; 
let stand in water until all are ready, then dry between towels 
as they are fried. Fry in a basket and but few at a time. 
Drain on soft paper and sprinkle with salt. Serv^ at once, 
as they retain their crispness but a shert time. Avoid having 
the fat too hot. Often potatoes to be fried are soaked an hour 
or more in ice water ; the question of soaking' or not soaking 
cut potatoes in ice water before frying is a matter of individual 
taste. When sliced, and left to stand in water, a large quan- 
tity of starch is lost, and the potato is probably more crisp. 
In the other case, the pieces would be softer and more mealy. 

WHOLE POTATOES, BALLS, CURLS, ETC., FRIED 

Potatoes, pared whole, may be cooked in hot fat, but the 
fat should not be too hot, ;^s the potatoes need cook about 
half an hour. If properly cooked the potatoes will be Very 
mealy. Potatoes for frying are cut in many fanciful shapes. 
They make an attractive garnish for dishes of broiled meat. 



298 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



STEAM SQUASH SERVED IN SHELL 

Saw off the top of a small, suitably-shaped Hubbard squash, 
remove the seeds and stringy portion and steam the rest until 
tender. Carefully remove the pulp from the shell, keeping 
the large shell whole ; pass the pulp through a vegetable ricer, 
season with salt, pepper and butter and return to the shell; 
smooth the surface to a dome shape and score with a knife, 
then place in the oven a few moments to reheat. Serve on a 
folded napkin. Part of a second squash is needed to make a 
really handsome dish. 

STEAMED SQUASH AU GRATIN 

Steam or boil a small Hubbard squash, cut in halves, until 
tender. Let dry on the back of the range, then remove from 
the shell and pass through a squash strainer. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful of cream, the beaten 
yolk of one egg, and salt and pepper to season. Mix thor- 
oughly, and turn into a buttered baking-dish, rounding the 
mixture on the top. Cover with half a cup of cracker-crumbs, 
stirred into one-fourth a cup of melted butter, and bake nearly 
half an hour in a slow oven. After boiling or steaming, winter 
squash may also be mashed and seasoned with salt and pepper 
and butter; or it may be cut into small pieces and baked as 
potatoes. Summer squash, as also large cucumbers, may be 
pared and cooked with the roast in the same manner as Fran- 
conia potatoes. 

SUMMER SQUASH STUFFED WITH SHRIMP (CREOLE 
RECIPE. MRS. HARRIS, OF NEW ORLEANS) 

Take half-grown squash and simmer whole in water ten 
minutes. Cut them in halves, if small, in quarters, if large. 
Scrape out the interior, leaving the shells, however, thick 
enough to handle without breaking up. Remove seeds, if 
large. Press all superfluous moisture out of the vegetable 
pulp and add to it the following: to enough squash to serve 
six persons put one cup of bread or cracker-crumbs, one onion, 
and one tomato minced fine, one-fourth a clove of garlic, 



CAULIFLOWER 299 

tliyme, parsley, bay leaf, two cups of shrimp chopped fine, 
and two tablespoonfuls of lard. Fry the onion and shrimp 
lightly in the lard, and add to it the tomato and herbs. Into 
this turn the squash, which has been thoroughly mixed with 
the crumbs, also salt and pepper, and a beaten egg. Turn over 
and over with spoon, mixing it again and again. Let the 
whole cook for about ten minutes. Have the shells arranged 
in the baking-dish. Fill each, rounding nicely. Sprinkle 
with cracker-crumbs, mixed with melted butter, and bake 
until brown. Serve hot. 

The squash may be heaped upon a pie-plate, and so baked 
without the shells. Crab, minced ham, veal, — almost any- 
thing, in fact, which is savory — may take the place of the 
shrimps. Egg plant is stuffed in the same way, but needs a 
little longer boiling than squash. 

EGG PLANT 

Remove the skin and cut the plant into slices, one-fourth an 
inch thick. Sprinkle the slices with salt and pile them, one 
above another, and set a plate holding a weight upon the top. 
Let stand an hour to drain off the juice. Dip in egg, then in 
breadcrumbs and saut6, first on one side and then on the 
other, to a golden brown. 

CAULIFLOWER (STRONG JUICED) 

Trim off the outside leaves and cut the stalk even with the 
edible portion, to stand level. Let stand, head downward, in 
cold salted water half an hour to draw out insects that may be 
present. Steam or cook head downward and uncovered, 
in a large kettle of rapid-boiling, salted water until tender 
(about twenty minutes) . Remove any scum that is present on 
the top of the water before lifting the cauliflower from the 
vessel. The* cauliflower may be tied in a cheesecloth before 
cooking. Serve with cream, white. Bechamel, Hollandaise 
or tomato sauce. Cooked flowerets of cauliflower are used 
to garnish dishes of veal, chicken and sweetbread. 



300 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CAULIFLOWER A LA HUNTINGTON (BOSTON COOKING 

SCHOOL) 

Steam the cauliflower, prepared as above, in a tightly closed 
kettle until tender; separate into flowerets and pour over these 
the following sauce : mix one teaspoonful and a half of mus- 
tard, one teaspoonful and a fourth of salt, one teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar and one-fourth a teaspoonful of paprika; add 
the slightly beaten yolks of four eggs and one-fourth a cup 
of olive oil. When thoroughly mixed, add half a cup of weak 
vinegar, in which half a teaspoonful of fine-chopped shallot 
has infused five minutes. Cook over hot water until slightly 
thickened, remove from the fire, add half a tablespoonful of 
curry-powder, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and one 
teaspoonful of fine-chopped parsley. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN IN CHEESE SHELL (ENTREE) 

Break a cooked cauliflower into flowerets ; put a layer in a 
shell of Edam cheese, and cover with cream sauce; alternate 
layers of cauliflower and sauce until the shfell is filled, having 
the last layer of sauce ; sprinkle with buttered cracker-crumbs 
and set the shell in the oven, to brown the crumbs. Serve a 
scraping of cheese with each portion of cauliflower. Celery, 
Brussels sprouts, cabbage or macaroni are also served from 
a cheese shell. Either white or tomato sauce may be used. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH MUSHROOM (VEGETABLE 
ENTREE) 

Steam the cauliflower, prepared in the usual manner, until 
tender, separate into flowerets, and dispose each on a round of 
buttered toast ; chop six mushroom caps and saute five minutes 
in three tablespoonfuls of butter; add three tablespoonfuls of 
flour and, when blended with the butter, add gradually a cup 
and a half of white stock ; stir until the boiling point is reached ; 
after all the broth has been added let simmer ten minutes, 
then remove from the fire and stir in the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten and diluted with the juice of a lemon; season with salt 
and pepper and, if the heat of the sauce does not suflSce to 
cook the egg, retutn to the fire over hot water for five minutes, 
stirring constantly meanwhile. Pour this over the flowerets 



STUFFED CABBAGE 301 

of cauliflower on the toast, sprinkle with buttered crumbs 
and brown quickly in a very h(?t oven. If served on a lar^e 
dish, garnish with mushrooms stuffed and baked. Served 
individually, ojnit the garnishing. 

FRIED CAUI.IFLOWER 

Clean and separate a cauliflower into its flowerets, and trim 
the stalks to a point. Let eaok Ifivie minutes in boiling water; 
drain, and let cook again in fresh boiling water until tender, 
adding a level tablespoonful of salt to the watjer; drain again, 
and roll each floweret in sifted breadcrunibs, cover with a 
beaten egg, diluted with two tablespoonfuls of water, drain 
off the egg, and roll a second time in breadcrumbs ; or dip in 
hatter. When ready to serve, fry to a, golden brown in deep 
fat, and drain on soft paper. Serve piled on a folded napkin, 
with sprigs of parsley between the flowerets, or serve as an 
entree with sauce Tartare or tomato sauce. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS WITH BUTTER 

Boil one quart of Brussels sprouts in two quarts of salted 
water, about fifteen minutes, or until tender. Let drain on a 
cloth, then toss in a frying-pan with a scant fourth a cup of 
butter, until the butter is absorbed; sprinkle with one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and a dash of salt; mix and 
arrange in a mound on a serving-dish. Surround with points 
of toasted or fried bread. 

CABBAGF: (STRONG JUICED) 

Remove the bruised outside leaves, and cut in halves or 
■quarters; cut out the hard centre; soak in salt and water. 
Cook in the same manner as cauliflower either steaming or 
boiling. Cabbage is particularly good served au gratin. 
Use layers of cooked cabbage, chopped, and white sauce; 
grated cheese may be added to the layers, thus making a very 
substantial dish. 

STUFFED CABBAGE 

Cut out the stalk end of a head of cabbage, leaving a hollow' 
shell. Chop two pounds of uncooked beef with a slice of 



302 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

bacon and onion; add one cup of breadcrumbs soaked and 
wrung dry, one beaten egg, salt, pepper, and mace. Shape 
into balls, arrange in the cabbage, add strips of sweet pepper, 
and steam until the cabbage is tender. Serve with tomato 
sauce. Cooked meat may be used by adding more eggs, — ■ 
whole eggs or the whites, — to hold the meat together. 

ONIONS (STRONG JUICED) 

Unless the onions be very mild or young, when boiling 
change the water two or three times, replenishing each time 
with cold water and draining, when the boiling point is reached. 
Cook until very tender. Drain and serve with butter or cream, 
or a white sauce. Onions left over may be cut in thin slices 
and disposed in a buttered gratin dish in layers with white 
sauce, then covered with buttered crumbs and set into the 
oven, to reheat and brown the crumbs. Onion purie is par- 
ticularly good with mutton chops. 

STUFFED ONIONS 

Cook ten or twelve onions in salted water, changing the 
water twice, about an hour, or until nearly tender ; drain and 
cool. Take out the centre of each onion without disturbing 
the outside layers; to this add six mushrooms, sauted five 
minutes in butter; chop fine, add half a cup of breadcrumbs 
and cream or white sauce to mix; season with salt, pepper 
and butter and fill the open space in the onions with the mix- 
ture. Put in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle the top with 
three-fourths a cup of cracker-crumbs, stirred into a fourth a 
cup of melted butter, and bake about twenty minutes, basting 
carefully with a little butter and hot water. The onions may 
also be stuffed with pork sausage. Thus stuffed they become 
an appropriate garnish for roast turkey or spare-rib of pork. 

ONION SOUFFLE 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan and add 
one tablespoonful of flour, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a dash of paprika. When smoothly mixed, add one cup 
of milk. When the sauce boils, add half a cup of stale bread- 



TURNIP PUREE 303 

crumbs (from centre of loaf), a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
one cup of cold boiled onions, chopped fine, and the yolk of 
an egg well beaten. Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff, 
and fold them into the onion-mixture. Bake in a buttered 
pudding-dish, in a moderate oven, about fifteen minutes. 
Serve at once with- or without cream sauce. 

TURNIP CHARLOTTE (TURNIPS, STRONG JUICED) 

Cook slices of carrot and turnips one-fourth an inch thick 
until tender, drain and use them to line a buttered charlotte 
mould. Boil white turnips until tender; drain, and press 
through a fine sieve. To one cup of pur^e add one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of white pepper, a grating of nut- 
meg, one-fourth a cup of thick cream, and, lastly, the stiff- 
beaten whites of three eggs. Bake in the decorated mould, 
standing in a pan of water, until the centre becomes, firm. 
Turn from the mould and serve with veloute, white or Becha- 
mel sauce. 

TURNIP PUREE 

Scrub and pare about six white turnips. Cut them into 
slices, cover with cold water, and bring quickly to the boiling 
point. Drain and blanch by rinsing in cold water, then cover 
with salted boiling water, and cook until tender. Drain and 
turn into a cloth, and wring out the moisture. Pass through , 
a squash-strainer or, better still, a pur^e sieve, then return 
to the fire to heat. Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
cook in this two tablespoonfuls of flour, and, when frothy, 
add the turnip and one-fourth a cup of thick cream, with salt 
and pepper. Stir constantly until the mixture boils, then turn 
into the serving-dish. Chestnuts, cauliflower, onions, peas, 
beans, celery, spinach, etc., all make good purdes for garnish 
of fish or meat dishes. The recipe given above will, with 
minor changes, evident to all, serve for any pur^e. The 
method of sifting is the same in any case, i.e. : with a wooden 
spoon rub the material through a strong wire sieve of medium 
mesh, first placing the sieve firmly bottom upwards over a 
plate and scraping the material fi-om the under side as it 



304 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

passes through. In some cases, as always with meat and fishi 
the -vegetable will pass through the sieve more readily, if it 
be first mixed with the sauce, etc. 

TURNIP BALLS, POUL^ITTE SAUCK 

With a French potato cutter cut out a piait of balls from 
large white turnips. Put over the fire in cold water, acid- 
ulated with one or two tabiespoonftds of lemcm juice ox vine- 
gar, and let cook five minutes after boiling begins, then drain, 
rinse in cold water and cook until tender in chicken broth. 
Skim out the turnip balls and thicken the broth with a table- 
spoonful and a half, each, of butter and flour, creamed, to- 
gether,^ — there should be about a cup and a half of broth — 
let simmer ten minutes, then add the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
diluted with half a ,cup of cream. Season to taste with salt 
and white pepper, add the balls and let stand over hot water 
until very hot. A tablespoonful of lemon juice improves 
this dish for some. If a French cutter be not at hand, cut 
the turnips in cubes of uniform size, or cut out cylinders with 
an apple corer, then cut these into half-inch lengths. 

TURNIPS IN CREAM 

Peel and slice the turnips; blanch and cook until nearly 
tender in salted water- Drain and cut into cubes, one-fourth 
an inch thick. Simmer ten or fifteen minutes in swegt cream. 
Season with sait, sugar, and white pepper, add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and shake the pan until the butter 
is blended with the other ingredients. Serve in a hot dish. 

BEETS 

Wasli Jaaets carefully to avoid breaking tJie ®kin and so 
loss of color while boiling. Boil rapidly until tender. New 
beets will cook in one or two hours. Old hg&ts can hardly 
be cooked enough. When tender drain and cover with cold 
water to loosen the skins. The skins should be removed with 
the hands. Season with salt, pepper, and butter. If the 
beets be large, cut in slices. Beets left over may be covered 
with vinegar and kept for several days. Beets baked in a hot 



FI^AQEOLETS 305 

oven are particularly good. When cooked cut these in slices, 
dress with butter, pepper and salt. 

STRma BPAl^S 

Remove all the strings from the beans. Lay several pods 
together on a meat board and cut all at once into small pieces 
of equal length, cutting straight across or diagonally. Cook 
in salted boiling water until tender; drain, add salt, pepper 
and a generous piece of butter and toss together thoroughly 
while they are standing on the back of the range ; cream, meat 
juice, chopped parsley, onion juice, lemon juice, bits of red or 
green pepper sauted in butter, tomato, pQulette or soubise 
sauce are all exceptionally good additions to a dish of cooked 
string-beans, Or the liquid in which the beans are cooked 
may be thickened with a white roux; when the addition of 
a beaten yolk of an egg with a little cream gives a more sub- 
stantial dish. 

STRJNGED BEANS WITIf BACON 

Cut one or two sliceg of tender tacon into cubes and saut^ 
to a delicate brown, then a4<i the hot copked be3.n^ -vyith a few 
drops of onion juicg; tRgs thppi abpn-t a mojrjent pr t;wp, th§n 
serve. 

l,mA. ^E^NS 

Cook in boiling salted water until tendpr, drjaifi wd season 
in any of the ways given for string beans. 

FLAGEOLETS 

French beans (flageolets) come to us dried and canned. 
The cost of the dried bean is about thirtyTfive cents per pound; 
one-fourth a pound is enough for a fajnjly of five, at a meal 
where some other substantial is served. To preserve the green 
cqlor, set to cook, withput soaking, in cold salted wafer; 
bring qijickly to the boiling point, phange this water for other 
boiling -vyater, salted as before, and replenish with boiling 
Wftter as neede4- J^et simmer until perfectly tender. Season 
with pepper and' iDutter; onion juice pr lemon juice, and 
phopped parsley may be added at .dispretion. Flageolets 
make a ^ood pur^e. 



3o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



ASPARAGUS (SWEET JUICED) 

In its native habitat, on the shores of the Mediterranean, 
asparagus sends up its delicate shoots twice in the year; but, 
cultivated in our colder clime, this wild seashore plant has a 
short season. On this account, as well as for its diuretic 
qualities and the general favor with which it is received, we 
shall do well to serve it often while it is in season. 

Men who have written on cookery expatiate to great extent 
on the cooking of asparagus. Thudichum insists that it is 
"almost invariably overboiled by modem cooks." He says 
that cooks should remember the Roman saying, which becomes 
applicable when anything is to be done quckly: "Do it in 
no more time than is necessary to boil asparagus. " 

Asparagus should be fully cooked, and yet each stalk should 
be left intact and possess • a certain crispness. Sir Henry 
Thompson advises that "the stalks be cut of exactly equal 
lengths, tied in a bunch and boiled, standing tips upward in a 
deep saucepan ; nearly two inches of the tips should be out of 
water, the steam sufficing to cook them, while the hard, stalky 
part is rendered soft and succulent by the longer boiling which 
this plan permits. " 

By the latter authority, then, a longer time is required for 
cooking asparagus than the conventional twenty minutes 
almost invariably prescribed by most writers, and our own 
experience is in harmony with this view. Fresh-cut aspara- 
gus, grown in warm, moist weather, may be cooked in the 
conventional time ; but after it has been kept, or when it has 
been grown in a dry, hot season, the time of cooking must be 
perceptibly lengthened. 

The German frau adds a small piece of butter — a teaspoon- 
ful to a quart^to the water in which both asparagus and peas 
are to be cooked; a sprig of mint is also added to the peas. 
These are valuable additions, when -the quality of the vege- 
table is doubtful, otherwise there is no material gain. Salt 
added to the water heightens the green color of both these 
vegetables, and this condiment is not unpleasing to most 
palates. 



ASPARAGUS BAKED WITH CHEESE 307 

The tender tips of asparagus, called "asparagus peas" are 
served in consomm^, in omelets, either with or without sauce, 
and in scrambled eggs. Three asparagus stalks, held in two 
rings cut from cooked carrots, make an appropriate garnish 
for roast mutton. 

Opinions differ as to the serving of asparagus with toast, 
but as the stalks will not absorb all the liquid in which they 
are cooked, no matter how carefully the cooking is carried out, 
and as this is too valuable to waste, the toast is, sometimes 
at least, worthy of consideration. 

ASPARAGUS EN BRANCHES 

Scrape the coarse scales from the branches, cut in equal 
lengths and tie in bunches. Cook the asparagus in a small 
quantity of water, drain and dispose on a well-toasted and 
buttered slice of bread. Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs to a smooth paste, add one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt 
and a dash of pepper ; then gradually beat into the egg enough 
butter, softened but not melted, to make a sauce of the con- 
sistency of mayonnaise dressing. Mask the asparagus with 
the sauce and serve at once. Bechamel, white, -Hollandaise, 
and Bemaise sauce (hot or cold) are all used with asparagus. 

ASPARAGUS BAKED WITH CHEESE 

1 bunch of asparagus. i cup of asparagus stock. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. The yolks of two eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. Grated Parmesan cheese. 

I cup of white stock or Buttered cracker-crumbs. 

Scrape the scales from the stalks, wash and tie the asparagus 
in a bunch. Cook in boiling salted water until nearly tender 
and drain carefully. Make a sauce of the butter, flour, sea- 
soning stock and cream ; add the yolks and two tablespoonfuls 
of cheese. Stir the sauce until the cheese melts, but do not 
let it boil. Put the asparagus and sauce into a buttered, 
oval baking-dish in layers, having the asparagus-tips at one 
end of the dish and covering only two-thirds the length of the 
stalks with sauce. Sprinkle each layer of sauce with cheese 
having the last layer sauce. Cover with buttered cracker- 



3o8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

crumbs ajid set the dish in the oven long enough to brown the 
crumbs. The ejidp of the stalks being uncovered avail in 
gerying the dish to advantage. The tender portions of the 
asparagus, cut in half-inch lengths before cooking, may be 
used instead of the whole stalks. 

ASPARAGUS PATTIES 

Make a sauce" pf three level tablespoonfuls, eaeb. of butter 
and flour, and half a cup, each, of chicken broth, cream and 
the water in which a bunch of asparagus has been boiled. 
Add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, salt and pepper, and a bunch of hot asparagus, cut in 
small pieces and cooked until tender. Serve in hot puff 
paste shells, in cases made of fritter batter or in bread crous- 
tades. 

ASPARAGUS, SPANISH STYLE 

Cook the asparagus tied in a bunch, the tips out of the 
water, or cut the tender portion in small pieces, put all but 
the tips over the fire to cook and when partly cooked add the 
tips. Draiji the asparagus and turn into a serving-dish; add 
two tablespoonfuls of vincga,r or lemon juice to the water, 
and in it poach three or four eggs ; place the eggs in the aspar- 
agus and pour over the whole French dressing, to which a 
teaspoonful, each, of fine:-chopped parsley, capers and cucum- 
ber pickles have been added. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS, MOUSSELINE SAUCE 

Prepare and cook as usual. When tender drain, and serve 
on a slice pf toast, pouring the sauce over the asparagus. 
Surround with fanciful-shaped bits of bread, sauted in butter. 
Fpr the sauce beat two tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream; 
add the yolks of four eggs, one at a time ; then add two table- 
spoonfuls pf lemon juice, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt 
and a dash of paprika. Cook over hot water until the sauce 
thickens, then add two tablespoonfuls of butter in three 
parts, incorporating each part before another is added. Lastly 
beat in one-fourth a cup of thick cream. Serve when thor- 
QUghly heated. The sauce should be tbipk and frothy. 




STEAMED SQUASH SERVED IN THE SHELL. (See page 298.) 




SPINACH IN A CROWN OF EGGS. (Slc pa^e 00} 




POTATO FOR GARNISHING. 

Ma'tied potato rosettes, boiled potato ball above sprinkled with chopped parsley 

Pyramids of mashed potato, chopped parsley above. Rnsettes grouped in 

shape of basket to hold a salpicon of meat or fish, jjarsley handle, 

• Fried lattice potato, also straws and balls 



jspinaCh with sardines 309 



SPlKAdH 

spinach, which is quickly and easily grown, is in the market 
at all seasons of the yekv except a short time in mid-summer 
and jiiid-Wihtet. When young the stems may be retained, 
but if at all old the leaves only should be used. . Kitchen 
scissors are Useful Iti preparing this vegetable for cooking. 
Careful cleansing is needed; five or six applications of water 
will render it none too free of sand* The smaller the quantity 
of water used in cooking the better, and this should be re- , 
tained for use in some way, as it contains the salts in com- 
position, the most valuable constituent bi the spiilach. As 
considerable water clings to the leaves in washing, btlt little 
more needs be added. A gentle simmeriiig will codk the 
tender leaves very quitkly. Salt should be added to pteSfef VS 
the color, The French call this 'Vegetable the bfooiii of the 
stomach. 

SPINACH IN A CROWN OF EGGS 

Cook a peck of Spinach in boiling- salted water until tender, 
then chop fine. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, and 
cook in it, without btowhitig, two tablespodrifuls of flour. 
Add a grating of nutmeg and the spinach. Wheii well blended 
add half a cUp of hot stock, or Water iii which the asparagus 
was cooked. Form into a mound and garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs. The white of egg, cut frdiii the half-eggs to make 
xhem stand level, may be chopped fine and massed on the top 
of the mound (see illustration). 

SPINACH WITH SARDINES 

Heat one cup of grated breadcrumbs in ohe-fourth a cup of 
butter; add a peck of Spinach leaves, cooked and chopped, 
and thfe flesh of a dozen or more sardines. Mix and add bf-oth 
if needeid, also salt arid pepper. When hot form into an ob- 
lohg. Garnish with slices of eggs, atid place SardirleS over the 
top. Serve as a luncheon dish. Cooked spinach makes a 
good thotuid against whidh broiled chops may be served. 



3IO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



SPINACH A LA BECHAMEL 

Drain the spinach and chop fine, or pass through a sieve. 
Return to the saucepan, and for each pint of spinach add a 
tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper. Stir over the fire 
until the spinach is hot; then add the beaten yolk of an egg 
diluted with one-third a cup of cream. Stir and cook a 
moment or until blended. 

SPINACH BALLS (ADAPTED FROM "GOLDEN AGE 
COOK BOOK") 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour and half a teaspoonful of sugar. When blended, add 
a tablespoonful of creara and three-fourths a cup of cooked 
spinach, chopped fine. Beat well, remove from the fire and 
add two eggs, one at a time. Season with salt and pepper, to 
taste, and a few grains of mace. Butter a tablespoon and fill 
with the spinach mixture, making it level with the edge of the 
spoon, and poach in a saucepan of boiling water four or five 
minutes or until firm. The water must not boil hard, but 
simply simmer very gently at one side. Six or more balls 
may be cooked at one time. Let drain in a colander while 
making a cream sauce ; reheat the balls in the sauce, and serve. 
A teaspoonful of the sauce with three or four capers may be 
placed on the top of each ball, and the rest of the sauce 
poured around the balls. 

CELERY WITH SAUCE 

Trim away the outside leaves of three heads of celery, cut 
the roots to a point and trim off the tops of the stalks, leaving 
the heads six inches in length; wash and blanch ten minutes 
in boiling water, drain, cover with cold water, and wash care- 
fully. Tie the heads in a bundle and put in a stew-pan with 
a pint and a half of boiling stock or water, or half of each. 
Add one-fourth a cup of fat from the- top of the stock, half a 
carrot, half an onion, a teaspoonful of salt and a few grains 
of cayenne; cover and let simmer an hour or until tender. 
Drain out the celery, strain the liquid, and remove the fat; 



PEAS 



311 



use the liquid in making about a cup of brown sauce. Pour 
this over the celery. Garnish with cutlet-shaped pieces of 
bread fried in butter. 

CREAMED CELERY IN CHEESE SHELL 

Cut the cleaned celery stalks in^pieces an inch long, and let 
cook in boiling water to cover until tender. For three cups 
of pieces make a pint of white sauce, using the water in which 
the celery was cooked, with cream as the liquid. Turn. into 
the shell of an Edam cheese, cover the top with half a cup of 
. cracker-crumbs, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, and let brown in the oven. Serve a light scraping of 
cheese with each service of celery. For a more elaborate 
service, add parboiled oysters with the celery, and use the 
oyster liquor in making the sauce as a part of the liquid. 

CHEESE AND CELERY AU GRATIN 

I pint of cooked celery. 3-4 a cup of grated cheese. 

I pint of white sauce. 3-4 a cup of cracker-crumbs. 

1-3 a cup of melted butter. 

Have the celery cut in half-inch pieces before cooking. 
Use the water in which it was cooked with white stock and 
cream in making the sauce. Put alternate layers of celery 
and sauce in a buttered au gratin dish and sprinkl& each layer 
with cheese. Cover the top with the cracker-crumbs mixed 
with the melted butter and any cheese remaining. Set in the 
oven to brown the crumbs. Garnish with curled celery, 
celery leaves, and quarters of hard-boiled eggs. 

PEAS (SWEET JUICED) 

If the pods are clean and fresh, cook part'of them with water 
to cover half an hour. Strain the water through a cheese- 
cloth, reheat and use as the liquid in which to cook the peas. 
Freshly gathered tender peas should cook in twenty minutes. 
In cooking peas use no more liquid than it takes to cover them, 
season with salt, pepper and butter. Cream, broth or meat 
extract may be added. A little sugar is sometimes an im- 
provement. Cubes of carrots, cooked separately, also are 



312 PRACTICAL COOKiNG AND SERVING 

added ttj & dish ef pbai. This is a Gefttlan custotn. Pfeas 
alone of ooiflbitied With Carfots, tUfnips arid f)btat6e6, are also 
served in cream sauce or in a curry sauce. 

PEA TIMBALKS 

Mix otie cup of pea pulp with two beaten eggs, a few drops 
of briioii juice, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, one table- 
SpOonfiil of rnelted butter, two-thirds a teaspoonful of salt, 
ofife-eighth a teaspoonful of black pepper, and a few grains of 
cayenne. Turn iilto buttered moulds and bake in a pan of 
hot water until firm. Serve with one cup of white sauce, 
to which has been added one-third a cup of cooked and drained, 
peas. 

These may be made of fresh, dried or canned peas. In sea- 
soniiig a teaspoonful of fine-chopped mint leaves is approved by 
many. Fot variety br the sake of Color add to the sauce, with 
tlie peas, cubes or figures cut from carrot, cooked tender. 

sWeet corn 

Com on the cob is thought to be sweeter and better flavored, 
if it be cooked without disturbing the husk; but, as the re- 
moval of the silk and husk is inconvenient after cooking, it 
is quite customary to strip down the husk, break the corn from 
the stem, then remove the silk, replace the husk, tie the end 
tightly, and let cook in milk and water, half and half, about 
fifteen minutes after boiling begins. Serve in the husks. 
The liquid may be used for a corn or mock bisque soup. 

GREEN CORN CtJSTARli WITH BROILED TOMATOES 

cut corn ff btti youtig eats to make otie ettp ; add to feur eggs 
beateil slightly with half a teaspoonful bf Salt, a dash Of 
paprika, a few dtbps of onion jtilce ahd a CUp and a quarter of 
inilk. Bake iii biittefed moulds In hot Water. 1/Vheil flfm 
tUrh fi-om the moulds atld Surt-pund with slices of broiled 
totriktoes. Bferve with cream satlce. When green cotn is out 
of season, kofhlfet may be used. Three-fourths a cup will be 
eiibUgh. 



SUCCOTASH 313 

KENTUCKY COkN GkOQUETTES 

Grate enough corn to make bile qiicltt Of ^tilp ; add one pint 
of Weam or tailk and cook twenty minutes in a double-boilei'. 
Add two tablespoonfuls, each, of biiiter and grated cheese, one 
teaspoonful of salt, olle-fourth a teaspoohful of pepper and 
two Weil-beaten eggs. Set aside to cool. When cbld fbrtti 
into two-ineh squafefe one Inch thick. Egg-and-bffeiaddruinb 
d,ttd fry in hot fat; Or bake in the Oven until broWn. If 
the ttiixtttre be too moist to shape, add & little rolled 
cfdckfef meal. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS (MOCK OYSTERS) 

To one pint of grated dorn pulp add enough Sifted cracker- 
crumbs to hold the mixture together, also half a teaspoonful 
of baking-powder with salt and pepper to taste. Drop the 
mixture from a teaspoon into hot fat, making the fritters the 
size of an oyster. Fry to a light brOwn color and drain on soft 
paper. Serve on A folded napkin. 

StrCCOTASH 

Scrape, wash, and score in quarter-inch slices a quarter of 
a pound of salt-pork. Cover with boiling water and let sim- 
mer five or six hours, or until nearly tender. Add one pint of 
fresh-shelled Lima beans and more water, if needed. When 
the beans become tender, add one pint of sweet-corn pulp. 
Cook about fifteen minutes, and add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, or a little sweet cream, and salt if needed. Pour the 
sueeotash into the serving-dish, slice the pork in the scour- 
ings, and serve at once, This dish is particularly good( pre- 
pared With dried beans and either dried or canned corn. If 
dried vegetables be used, let soak over night in cold water. 
To remove the pulp from the ears of corn without the hull, 
with a sharp knife cut down through the centre of each row of 
kernels, then with the back of the knife press out thejpulp, 
leaving the hull on the cob. For a change, add a cup of 
reduced tomato pulp, seasoning accoi'dingly; of an oilion 
may be cooked with the beans and retnoved befof-fe the dish 
is sent to the table. 



314 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PARSNIPS 

Parsnips are at their best in the spring (the sweet flavor 
developed in the ground through the winter being entirely 
wanting in the fall). To prepare, wash and scrape until clean 
and cook until tender — it will take about an hour — cut in 
halves they will cook in less time. When tender put into a 
hot serving-dish, Sprinkle with salt and put over them butter, 
in bits. Or simply scrub the parsnips with a brush and cook 
until tender, then throw them into cold water to remove the 
skins; cut in slices, dip in flour and saut<i in hot salt-pork fat. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS 

Mash the parsnips, after boiling and removing the skin, 
season with salt, pepper and butter. Flour the hands or 
dip them in cold water and shape the mixture into small cakes. 
Dip these cakes in flour and saut^ in hot salt-pork fat or butter. 

CARROTS 

Wash and scrape thoroughly, cut in halves, in balls or 
other shapes, boil until tender in boiling salted water, drain 
and toss in butter, salt and pepper, or in a maitre d'hotel 
butter. Carrots cut into fanciful shapes may be served alone, 
or in combination with other vegetables, in brown, white or 
curry sauce, or in salads. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Use either fresh or canned tomatoes. If fresh tomatoes are 
at hand, dip them into boiling water a moment to remove tne 
skins. Cut them in slices and stew in an agate-ware or porce- 
lain dish until tender, adding meanwhile for a quart of toma- 
toes half a cup of fine breadcrumbs, stole but not dried. 
Season with a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoon fuls of sugar, 
pepper to taste, and two or three tablespoonfuls of butter. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES AND ONIONS (MRS. MCEWEN, 

OHIO) 

Use very tender new onions, or onions previously cooked 
and left over. If new onions are selected, cut in thin slices 
and saut^ in hot butter a few moments without discoloring 



STUFFED TOMATOES A LA CAROLINA 315 

the onion. Butter an agate serving dish ; put in a layer of sUced 
tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle with but- 
tered bread or crackerrcrumbs, then add a layer of onion 
slices; continue in the same order, having the last layer of 
crumbs, until all the ingredients are used. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven half to three-fourths an hour. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut the tomatoes in halves without removing the skin, 
dip in oil or melted butter, then season with salt and pepper, 
and dip in fine cracker-crumbs. Put between a well-oiled 
tomato or oyster broiler, and cook until the crumbs are brown, 
turning often, so as to avoid burning the crumbs. 

STUFFED TOMATOES A LA SICILIENNE 

Select a dozen smooth tomatoes of same size. Remove a 
round piece about an inch in diameter from the stem end of 
each. Remove "the seeds and pulp, to leave a shell, and chop 
the pulp fine. Put into a saucepan four tablespoonfuls of 
butter and saut^ in this half an onion chopped fine, then add a 
pint of chopped mushrooms and stir and cook until the moist- 
ure evaporates; now add the tomato pulp, half a cup of lean 
ham, cooked and chopped fine, half a cup of breadcrumbs 
(stale not dried), a few leaves of sweet herbs, tied in a parsley 
branch, salt and pepper with broth or thickened sauce to 
moisten, stir and cook until thoroughly heated, then remove 
the parsley branch and fill the tomatoes. The mixture should 
not be too moist. Set the tomatoes in a baking-pan, and 
sprinkle with grated cheese and buttered crumbs. Bake 
about half an hour in a moderate oven. 

STUFFED TOMATOES A LA CAROLINA 

Select a dozen round tomatoes of the same size. Remove 
a piece about an inch in diameter from the blossom end of 
each and take out the seeds. Cook a cup of rice in a quart 
of well-seasoned broth, with half a green pepper cut fine. 
When the rice is nearly tender, add half a cup of butter 
and mix thoroughly, but carefully, to avoid breaking the 
grains of rice. Fill the tomato shells with the rice ; put back 



3i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the covers, set in a baking-pati, stem end ddi/irii, brtlsh over 
the outside With oUve oil Or melted butter arid bake half an 
hdUf in a moderate oveft. ReiiioVe catefilUy to a serving- 
dish atld pour around the totnatoes a Ctip of highly seasoned 
tomato saiice; 

CANNED TOMATOES WITH SAVORY CUSTARD 

Mix together one pint of tomatoes (canned), one-fourth a 
cup of gra'ted breadcrumbs (centre of loaf passed through a 
colander), ofte tablespoohftll of fine-chopped onion, one tea- 
spOonful of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste; pour into a 
buttered baking-dish. Beat fouf eggs, add half a teaspoonful 
of salt, a teaspoonfttl of sugar, and a cttp and a half of tailk ; 
pour over the tomato mixture, and bake in a slow oven until 
set (about three-fourths an hour). 

canned-tomato-And-cheese pudding 

Mix one pint of canned tomatoes, one cup of grated bread- 
crumbs, one-third a cxlp of grated cheese (American factory 
chedse), half a teaspoonfttl of salt, and pepper to taste, and 
pour into a buttered baking-dish. Mix one-third a cup of 
breadcrumbs with one tablespoortful of melted butter and 
two tablespoonfuls. of grated cheese, spread oVer the top 
and bake about twenty minuteS. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

Wash and scrape the desired number of artichbkes. Cover 
With boiling salted water and cook until tender (about half 
an hour) : drain, dust With salt, and set on the badk of the 
range to evaporate the moisture. Serve With melted butter, 
or with white or Bechamel sauce. 

SALSIFY 

'This vegetable is usually scraped before Cooking, and much 
care is necessary — soaking and cooking in acidulated water, 
etc. — to keep it from discoloring. A better plan Would be to 
scrub the roots carefully — a vegetable brush is indispensable 
in cleaning all root vegetables — and cook Without scraping; 
then pefel carefully and cut iii ^mall pieces before sending to 



MUSHROOMS 317 

the t9,ble, Salsify may be served with butter and seasonings, 
but it is better when dressed with a white sauoe, It is also 
served au gratin. A teaspoonful of lemon juice way be added 
to the sauce, or sprinkled over the cooked salsify, before the 
sauce is pou|-ed ovct it. It is particularly good seryed au 
gratin. 

OKRA 

Procure young and tender pods (see Okra Soup) an4 cut oif 
both ends to make the pods of uniform length (about two 
inches). Blanch the pods, then lay them in a saucepan, 
add hot stock just to cover, and let sininier until tender a;;d 
the stock is reduced. Serve on a hot plate dressed Tvith 
Bechamel, IJoU^ndaise or any S3,uce used with asparp.gHS, 
Garnish with sippets of toast-points, or cutlet shapes. A 
little lemon juice should be added to a Bechaniel or a drawn 
butter sauce that is to be served with okrp, 

OKRA SAUTE (CREOLE STYLE) 

Chop a peeled ojiion, a clove of garlic, and h9,lf a red or 
green sweet-pepper pod, and sg,ut^ in a little butter withOHt 
browning; add six or eight tortjatoes, peeled and CU* iu quar- 
ters, and let simmer half an hour, then add about a dozen 
boiled okra pods ; cover the p3,n a^d let simmer uPtH the Riix- 
ture thifikens. Sep,SQn with salt, Serve on sUces pf hot 
buttered tpast. 

MUSHROOMS 

For centuries epicures have sung the praises of mushrooms 
as an article of food and devised choice recipes for thejr prep- 
aration. But it was left to the present generation to qall 
them the "beefsteak qf the vegetable kingdom" and to assert 
that "mushrooms contain the same nutritive value as meat, " 
By comparing the composition of mushrooms and pf meat 
(see headings of chapters on Vegetables and Beef) the truth 
or falsity of such statements can be easily verified. 

By the late analysis at the agricultural experiment §t9,tipns 
it would seem, as far as nutritive value is concerned, that 
mushrooms rank higher than most gre^n vegetables and are 
about on a par with green peas and beans. 



3i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

At present the price of cultivated mushrooms places them 
in the list of luxuries; and as all mushrooms, particularly 
those growing wild, spoil very quickly and must of necessity 
be cooked soon after gathering, it would seem that fungi can- 
not be listed as a standard article of food. They may be 
successfully dried or canned at home ; and either in this con- 
dition, or when fresh gathered, they may avail to give a pleas- 
ing variety to the dietary or, in small quantities, add relish to 
many an otherwise tasteless dish. 

The mushroom, Agaricus campestris, which is cultivated 
for the market in hot-houses and cellars, is also found wild ; 
the death cup, poisonous Aminita, the poisonous principle of 
which is one of the tox-albumins (the poison which produces 
death in cholera and diphtheria and for which there is no 
known antidote), belongs to the same family: fungi with gills. 
The various members of this family have so many things in 
common that none but an expert can say with certainty this 
is edible, that is not. 

The risks attendant upon the eating of poisonous mush- 
rooms are too serious to warrant any other than those who 
have become proficient — by the most careful observation and 
study — in the exact classification of fungi, in attempting to 
gather wild mushrooms for the table. 

Exceptions may be made in the case of amateurs who have 
learned to distinguish full grown clavaria (coral mushrooms), 
puff-balls, and morels ; these -belong to families in which there 
are no known poisonous species; they have "hall marks" by 
which, after passing the button stage of growth, it is possible 
to distinguish them with certainty and, if they be fresh and 
free from insects, the amateur may gather and eat them 
with impunity. As to methods of determining the character 
of other species of mushrooms, there are none save actual 
knowledge of the most minute characteristics of the different 
groups or genera. 

The silver spoon test cannot be relied upon, in fact, it is no 
test at all, as certain varieties of both poisonous and edible 
mushrooms will turn silver black. The novice must discard 
all button mushrooms and all mushrooms with swollen base 




GREEN CORN CUSTARD WITH BROILED TOMATOES. 
fSee page ,112.) 




CREAMED MACARONI IN CHEESE SHELL, (See 



page 311 ) 




MUSHROOMS COOKED UNDER GLASS. (See page 321 .) 



STEWED MUSHROOMS 319 

surrounded with any sort of an envelope. Button mushrooms 
are not developed sufficiently to be accurately known and 
some of the poisonous varieties have an enlarged base. 

PREPARATION OF MUSHROOMS FOR COOKING 

Trim off the earthy end of the stalk, and wipe the cap with 
a damp cloth (avoid washing when possible, as soaking in water 
tends to destroy the flavor). If the skin be tough, remove by 
peeling. The stems and the skin upon the caps of the coinmon 
mushroom, Agaricus campestris, are tough and require longer 
cooking than does the flesh of the cap. On this account the 
peeled caps are often used in one dish and the trimmings, 
chopped fine, are added as a flavor to some other dish. If 
not needed for immediate use the trimmings may be dried 
in the warming oven and stored in a tight-closed bottle or bag, 
for future use. 

Many think that the peculiar mushroom flavor is heightened 
or brought out more fully by first of all saut^ingthe mushrooms, 
prepared for cooking, in a little hot butter. Some ways of 
cooking mushrooms are better adapted to one variety than 
to another. Occasionally, to prevent discoloring, mushrooms 
are sprinkled with lemon juice after being peeled or broken 
into pieces ; this, however, detracts from the mushroom flavor. 

TO KEEP MUSHROOMS TEMPORARILY 

Nina Marshall in "The Mushroom Book" is authority for 
the following: "To keep mushrooms temporarily, cleanse, 
remove the parts to be rejected, rinse in cold water the parts 
to be used, dry with a cloth, then put in boiling water and 
keep boiling for five or ten minutes. Drain and wipe dry. " 
Thus prepared, the water in which the mushrooms are cooked 
should be retained for use in sauce or soup. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS 

Saut^ the peeled caps, broken in pieces if large, in a little 
hot butter; add thin cream enough to rather more than half 
cover, cover the saucepan and let simmer very gently about 
twenty minutes. Serve with crackers, puff paste diamonds, 



320 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

or sippets of toy,st. Milk or stqclf: inay take the place of the 
cream and a little thjekeping of roux, or flour and water, 
may be added, when the mushroonis are half-cookedr 

SCALLOPED MUSHROOMS 
Peel the mushrpoms and break t^hepi into pieces, If it be 
desired to serve thern very white, throw the pieces, sprinkled 
with lemon juice, into boiling water; allow them to staijd two 
or three minutes, then pas§ into cold water. Dry carefully 
and s^ut^ in hot butter three or four niinutes. To twp cups 
of piushrooms ^dd thrge tablespoonfuls of flffur p.nd half a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Stir and pook until the flour 
has become absorbed by the butter, then add one cup pf sfock, 
milk or cream. Stjr until the sauce boils, then simmer very 
gently ten minuses. Add ope teaspopnful of lemon juice, 
a dash of paprika, and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt- 
Remove froni the fire. Beat the yolk of ao egg with two 
tableppponfuls of milk or cream and stir intp the piixture. 
Fill buttered shells with the preparatipn- Stjr pne cup pf 
cracker-crun:;bs into one-third a cup of melted butter, and 
spread the crumbs over the top pf the preparatipn. Let the 
dish staud in the oven long enough to brown the cruTObs. 

PUFF BALLS 

All puff balls are edible when gathered at the white stage. 
Wipe carefully, cut pff the base, then pee|. Cut in slices abput 
an inch in thickness. Season with salt and pepper, and saut^ 
in a little butter, or dip in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and 
fry tp a golden brpwn, in smol^ing hot fat. Perhaps they are 
more delicate broiled. In this case, season with salt and pep- 
per, dredge lightly with flour, and broil over a fire not tpp 
bright. Remove from the broiler, ."spread with buttpf, and 
serve on a hot platter. Puff balls are particularly good when 
sauted in bacon fat, or broiled and served with bacon as a 
garnish. 

PUFF BALL STEW 

Peel and trim the fungi. Cut into small cub§-shaped pieces, 
cover with white stock, milk or water, and simmer twenty 



MUSHROOMS COOKED UNDER GLASS 3-21 

mi'nates : when they have eookecJ fivfe minuteS', stir into them 
(for a pint) two taMespoonluls, each,' of butter and flour 
creamed together. When tender season with salt and pepper,' 
add a little cream or butter and a teaspoonful of fine-chopped 
parsley. Serve with crackers. 

CHAMPIGNONS A LA ALGONQUIN 

Have ready in a baking-pan as many rounds of stale btead 
as mutehrooms. Remove the stems from the mushrooms, 
peel the caps-, aaid saut6 them in a little hot butter. Put a 
cap on each round of toast, gill side lip. Put aft oys-ter on 
each niushroom and a bit of butter on each oyster and dust 
the whole with salt and peppfer. B'ake in a hot oven until 
the oysters loo'k plump. Serve with a sauce m'ade of two 
tablespoonfiils, each, of buiter and flour, salt and pepper, 
and half a cup, each, of chicken^' stock and cream. 

MUSHROOM CROQWETT ES (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY, BOSTON) 

clean and peel half a pound of mushrooms, chop the stems 
and peelings and siininet twenty minutes in milk or white 
stock to' cover; strain through a cheesecloth and reserve the 
liquid. Make a saiicfe of one-fourth a cup of buttefv half a 
Clip of &ouf, ohe cup, each, of the* mushroom- liquor and cream. 
Season with half a teas^joonful of salt, one-fourth a teaspoon- 
fu'l of paprika and a grating of nutmeg. Saute the caps cut 
sm'all in a little butter until tender;, add two hafd-boiled eggs, 
rubbed through) a sieve, a iiablespoonful Of chopped parsley, 
the sauce, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Mix thoroughly 
and spread on a dish to cool. Shape into croquettes, egg-and- 
breadcnimb and fry in deep fat. 

MUSHROOMS COOKED UNDER GLASS 

Saiit^ o&e-fburth a pound of f)eeled mushroom c'^^S- (the 
Agtificus cdntpestris is particularly g'o6d cooked this way) in 
one or two (as needed) taMespoonful's of butter: seaisoh Mth 
salt and paprika, add a gienero0s half-cup of thin creajn, cover 
and let simmer until reduced a' little. Arrange the mush- 
rooms on a round of bread in a mushroom' dish, powr the 
liquid over them, cover with a glass bell and bake about 



322 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Send to the table with' 
oiit removing the glass, which confines the delicate flavor and 
aroma of the mushrooms. The cream may be omitted. 

MUSHROOMS AND CALVES' BRAINS A LA POULETTE 

Saut6 a clove of garlic, cut fine, in two tablespoonfuls of 
butter; add half a pound of mushrooms, peeled and broken 
in pieces, and one-fourth a cup of flour, and saut^ until well 
browned. Then add one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of mace 
and paprika, half a teaspoonful of salt and very gradually one 
cup and a half of stock and cook five or six minutes. Then 
add three calves' brains, cooked and cut in cubes, and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. When the mixture is thoroughly 
heated, add the yolks of two eggs, beaten and diluted with a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Serve in patties, Swedish tim- 
bale cases, or in croustades of bread. 

MUSHROOMS AND MACARONI, ITALIAN STYLE 

Put one tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice into the blazer; add a dozen peeled mushrooms, 
broken into pieces, blanch and cook slowly, covered, five 
or six minutes. Then add one cup and one-fourth of milk, 
and, when scalded, stir into it two tablespoonfuls, each, of 
butter and flour, creamed together. Let simmer ten minutes, 
then add one-fourth a pound of macaroni, cooked and blanched 
in the usual manner; heat over hot water and, just before 
serving, add one-fourth a cup of grated cheese. 

30LETI SAUTED WITH BACON (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY) 

Cook thin slices of bacon in the oven, — let the bacon stand 
in a double-broiler over a dripping-pan — until nicely crisped. 
Peel and slice the mushroom caps, rejecting tough stems and 
long spongy pores ; saut6 in bacon fat until tender, season with 
salt and pepper, drain on soft paper, sprinkle with lemon 
juice and serve hot with the bacon. 

COPRINUS COMATUS BAKED WITH OYSTERS 
(ANNIE P. DOUGHTY) 

Dress the prepared, lengthwise halves of fine, large Copnnus 
comatus on long, narrow, buttered strips of bread; season with 



RUSSULAE A LA BORDELAISE 323 

salt and pepper, cover closely and bake fifteen minutes. Re- 
move from the oven and on each half mushroom place one 
large oyster, seasoned with salt and paprika, and rolled in 
melted butter and then in cracker dust. . Return to the oven 
to plump the oysters. Serve with hot cream or Bechamel 
sauce poured around. 

CLAVARIA BAKED WITH CHEESE (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY) 

Pick over, trim and wash the mushrooms. Parboil in boil- 
ing salted water ten minutes. To two cups of cooked and 
drained Clavaria allow one cup of cream sauce, two table- 
spoonfuls of grated cheese (Swiss, Parmesan or old English) 
and half a cup of buttered crumbs. Butter a gratin dish, 
put in the Clavaria, then the sauce, and lastly the cheese with 
the buttered crumbs. Bake until the crumbs are browned. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS 

Wipe firm ripe tomatoes ; cut a thin slice from the stem end 
and with a teaspoon scoop out the seeds ; sprinkle the insides 
with salt, invert, and let stand to drain half an hour. Cook 
together three minutes two tablespoonfuls of butter and two 
teaspoonfuls of minced onion ; add one cup of fresh mushrooms, 
sliced (equal parts of Campestris and puff balls are good) 
and saut^ slowly ten minutes; add one cup of stale bread- 
crumbs from the centre of the loaf, season with salt and pepper, 
stir in one egg, slightly beaten, and fill the tomatoes with the 
mixture. Sprinkle buttered crumbs over the tops. Bake 
in a buttered baking-dish half an hour. Chicken or veal, 
chopped fine, is a good addition to this forcemeat. 

RUSSULAE A LA BORDELAISE 

Sprinkle a buttered gratin dish thickly with buttered 
breadcrumbs. Spread with a deep layer of fresh Russules 
prepared for cooking, sprinkle with a little finely minced 
parsley, and season with salt, pepper and onion juice. Cover 
with buttered crumbs. Repeat the layers until the dish is 
filled. Bake half an hour, covered; ten minutes before serving 
remove the cover to brown the crumbs on top. Serve very 



324 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ktJt. Olive oil may he substituted,- foif the Biittet; and a clove 
of gasriic, fof the Oftion. 

CEPES A LA DUMAS 

Drain a geneFOUS' cu^ of CepeS, that have beeii soaking in! 
water several hours, on a sieve, then wipe dfy and cttt in 
slices. Saut^ a shallot, a clove of garlic, or a slice or two of 
oirion, in' a little blive oil or butter ; slcim oiit the onion, which- 
ever" variety be used, and saut6 the mushrooms ', add oiie tea- 
spooitful of chopped parsley, salt and paprika and one cup of 
cream sauce. Sprinkle biarttered scallop shells with grated 
bf eadcrtimbs and fill with the mushroom mixture ; cover with 
buttered crumbs and bake u-ntil brown. Serve the shells on: a 
folded napkiai. 

IVfOSHROOMS WltM MACARONI AND KIDNEYS 

Boil afld blaftch half" & ppufid' of macaroni; return to the 
saucepatn and add orte-fourth a cup,- each,, of butter and 
grated cheese (preferably Parmiesan). Toss together and 
dispose in a circle in the seifving-dish. Prepare a tomato 
sauce with cup of thick (well red'uced) tomato pur6e, butter", 
flour, seasonings, a tablespootiful of beef extraict, and a few 
drops of kitchen bouquet. Rem'ove the skin of a Veal or lamb 
kidney, slice very fine and saut6 inai biortter; skim from the 
butter atnd saut^ in that half a dozen mushroom caps, peeled 
aad Gut im slices; draiiii these also' and add with the kidney to 
the Sauce; season as needed wiHh satlt and pepper and turn 
into the centre Of the ring of macaroni. 

PIMENTOES STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS 

Line buttered dariole moulds with pimentoes. Wipe care- 
fully half a,' cup of miishrOoma; peel the caps, ciit in small 
pieces and chop thte' stems fine; saut^ in one liablespoo'n-ful 
of buttSef together -v^rith half a small onion, chopped' fitie ; then 
aidd -ihreB-fofurthis a cup of white sauce, half a cup of fin'e 
breadcrumbs, half a cup of 6oo'ked meat, fine chopped, and the 
beaten yolk of one egg; season with a pimento, chopped fiile, 
and salt to taste. Fill the lined m'ould's with the mix;tiire. 



PIMENTOES STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS 325 

Bake in a pan of hot water. Serve turned from the moulds 
on rounds of toast. Pimentoes are Spanish peppers, very mild 
and sweet in flavor; they are found in the market, canned. 
There are about a dozen in each can which costs eighteen cents 
at retail. 



CHAPTER X 



Corn Plants Used as Breakfast Food and 
Vegetables 

" Samp is the Indian com, beaten and boiled, and eaten hot or cold 
with milke or butter, which are mercies beyond the native's plaine 
water, and is a dish exceeding wholesome for English bodies. " 

— Roger Williams. 

AVERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FARINACEOUS FOOD 







(atwater) 










Water. 

Per 
Cent. 


Protein 
Per 
Cent. 


Fat. 

Per 

Cent. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
Per 
Cent. 


Ash. 
Per 
Cent. 


Fuel Val. 
per lb. 
Calo- 
ries. 


Barley, granulated. 


.10,9 


7-S 


0.9. 


79.8 


0.9 


1.660 


Farina 


. lo.g 


4-1 


■4 


84.1 


■ s 


1 .660 


Com Meal 














granulated . . . 


.12. s 


9.2 


1.9 


75-4 


1 . 


i-6SS 


Hominy 


.11.8 


8.3 


.6 


79.0 


•3 


1.650 


Oat Meal 


■ 7-3 


16. X 


7.2 


67-5 


L.g 


1.860 


Rice 


.12.3 


8.0 


•3 


79.0 


-4 


1.630 


Rye Meal 


.11.4 


13-6 


2. 


7I-S 


i-S 


1.665 


Macaroni 


.10.3 


13-4 


■9 


74.1 


1-3 


1.66s 



BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Steam-cooked cereals can be eaten without much time being 
given to their preparation and in consequence their consump- 
tion is enormous. Many children are permitted, morning 
after morning, to make a full breakfast of cereal. While a 
child with strong digestive powers may appear for a time to 
thrive upon such diet, it becomes a fruitful source of dys- 
pepsia. Many a dish of oatmeal, sugared and deluged with 
milk, causes acidity of the stomach or heartburn, which is 
wrongfully ascribed to other causes. The trouble lies not so 
much with the cereals themselves — though some are more 
prone to produce digestive disturbance than others — as it does 

326 



SERVING CEREALS 327 

with the manner of cooking and masticating. Cereals are 
largely composed of starch and tough woody fibre, hence long 
and thorough cooking and thorough mastication are prime 
requisites, to insure the digestive action of the saliva. In cook- 
ing cereals, then, use enough water to swell the grains to their 
full extent, but avoid having the mush too soft, else it is liable to 
be swallowed without mastication. As starch during the process 
of digestion is changed into sugar, sugar as an accompaniment 
to cereals would be contraindicated. Indeed, cooked until 
quite stiff, they are most acceptably served with butter or 
cream as a vegetable with meat and in the place of potatoes. 
More time is required for the conversion of the starch in oat- 
meal into sugar than for the starch in barley, and thus barley 
would be considered the cereal for sedentary people. The 
large proportion of fat in oats and com fit them more par- 
ticularly for midwinter consumption. 

COOKING CEREALS 

Breakfast cereals may be boiled or dry-steamed, i.e., cooked 
in a double-boiler; the latter method requires longer time in 
cooking, but it is usually preferred, as less attention is de- 
manded. A supply of water needs always be kept in the 
boiler. A general rule for cooking cereals is as follows: add 
a teaspoonful of salt to a quart of water boiling directly over 
the fire ; into this stir about a cup of the cereal and, when the 
mixture boils, after all the cereal has been added, set over hot 
water and cook, without stirring, the requisite time. Whole 
grains of oatmeal require in cooking about six hours, hominy 
four hours, samp eight or more, cracked wheat two hours, 
Indian meal three to six hours, and rice about forty minutes. 
In cooking cereals from packages it is safe to double the time 
given in the directions on the packages. 

SERVING CEREALS 

The various cereals have distinctive yet delicate flavors 
of their own that are usually enjoyed, but occasionally, for the 
sake of variety, fruit flavors may be added. Sweet fruits 
would be indicated. Raisins should be added with the salt 
to the water in which the cereal is to be cooked. After 



32? PRACTICAL .COOKING AND SERVING 

removing the seeds from dates, cut into quarters and stir into 
the .cooked cereal; Gover and return to the range long enough 
to heat the fruit thoroughly. Prunes and figs should he 
stewed previously until tender, then served hiOt or cold with 
the cereal, p ananas may he sliced without cooking, and then 
served with the hot cereal ; but even these will be found to be 
more agreeable, if they be cooked. 

BALTIMORE SAJVJP WITH CREAjM SAI7CE 

Baltimore samp is made of white cori;i. It is very much 
coarser than grits ,or fin.e hominy. Coyer the samp with boil- 
ing w,ater, let boil ;five or six minutes, then drain and rinse. 
Coyer again with boiling water, and let cook on the back of 
the range all d9,y, adding boiling water as needed, and shaking 
the dish occasionally to prevent scorching. When nearly 
cooked, add a teaspoonful of salt for each quart of samp. 
To serve as a vegetable, reheat a cup of the samp in a cup of 
hot ^hite ^auce ina4e of cream or rich mJlK- A4d £t]so ^ scant 
jtfbJjespoonjEul of fine-chopped parsley of two t^btespponful^ 
of grated cheese. 

CORNMEAL RELISH 

^tir one cup of comnj^al mixied w^th one cjip of milk ijitp 
t^D ci;ps and a Ijalf of jboiling Y^^it/sr, to i^hipli a teaspooijfuj 
of sg,lt h^s been adde4; stir ponst3.j:Hly until ]the mu§li boils, 
then, occasionally, for half an hojjr or longer. J^dd an egg, 
beaten until white apd yoll^ are ■jvpll jnixed, a tat?le§pQonf;i| 
of Jajittef ai^d one-fo^rt^ a cup (or more) of grated cheese. 
Pom into ^ sl^allow p^n to cpol. When cold cujt ^^tp squares 
.or rounds the sjze of a silver ,4olJ,ar. Arrange these in a bak- 
ing-dish that can be sent to the tabjje, in the form of 3. pyra- 
mid, with spaces between. Sprinkle with bits of butter and 
grated cheese. Set in the oven to reheat the mush and melt 
the cheese. Serve very hot. Paprika, or cayenne, may be 
added. The quantity of liquid needed in making the mush 
will vary. The average is four cups of liquid to one of meal. 
The dry meal may be shaken slowly with one hand and stirred 
with the other into the boiling water! After cooking half an 




OATMEAL WITH STEWED FIGS AND CREAM. 
(See page 327.) 



r^ 













A 




BAKED APPLE WITH GLUTEN AXD CREAM. 




SPATULA. PERFORATED WOODKS SPOON, FRENCH 
APPLE-TREE SPOON FOR CHAFING-DISH COOKERY. 



OMELET WITH WHEAT-GERM MEAL 329 

hour directly over the fire, the mush may be cookecj over hot 
water an hour or more to advantage. 

GNOCCHI AU GRATIN 

6 ounces (about i 1-2 cups) of White sauce. 

ho^iiny or Jadian meal. Grated cheese. 

I cup of milk. 1-2 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

I 1-2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Add the salt and butter to the boiling milk and sprinkle in 
the hominy or meal; stir and cook until the mixture becomes a 
stiff paste. With two teaspoons shape the mixture intd) 
quenelles, and poach these in gently boiling stock or water. 
Drain and arrange a layer on a buttered gratin dish, mask 
with white sauce and sprinkle with grated cheese; continue 
the layers until the materials are used, then cover with -the 
crumbs mixed with the melted butter. Bake in a very hot 
oven about ten minutes. This d^sh is particularly gOo4, if the 
quepeEes be poached in chicken ijquor, an4 the s,auc;e .alte^j 
wards made with that liquor. 

HOMINY BALLS 

Shape a quart of boiled hominy iptp balls, roll jn sifted 
crumbs, then dip in an egg, beaten and diluted with i^yvp tab.lp^ 
spoonfuls of cold water, and again in crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain on soft paper. Serve as a vegetable, or with 
maple syrjup as 3 dessert; or ^.dd h^lf a cup or more of grated 
cheese and serve as an enXr6e. 

OMELPT WITH 'WHEAT-GERM MEAL, WHEATLgT, 
CREAM OF WHEAT, ETC. 

Into one cup and a fourth of boijing water, to which one- 
fourth a teaspoofiful of salt has been a4ded, stir two table- 
spoonfuls of wheat-germ meal. Stir and cook over the fire 
three or four minutes, then copk oyer hot water until ready 
to use. Beat five eiggs, until a spoonful of the mixture can be 
lifted ; add a few grains of pepper and salt, and beat the eggs 
into the cooked meal. Turn into a hot frying-pan, buttered, 
and cook as a French omelet. Or, beat the whites and yolks 



330 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

separately; then beat the yolks into the meal, fold in the whites 
and cook as a puffy omelet. 

POLENTA 

2 cups of boiling water. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1 cup of yellow com flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 cups of cold water. 4 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 

Mix the corn flour with the cold water and stir into the boil- 
ing water, to which the salt has been added : stir constantly 
until the mixture boils, then, occasionally, for at least half an 
hour. When about half cooked add the butter and cheese. 
Serve hot (with meat) with the sauce given below, or as "corn- 
meal relish"; or when cold cut in squares, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry in deep fat. 

SAUCE FOR POLENTA, RICE OR MACARONI 

Sautd half a dozen mushrooms broken in pieces (if dried 
mushrooms be used, let soak some hours in cold water), an 
onion and a clove of garlic, cut fine, in half a cup of butter 
until a golden brown, then add half a cup of water and two 
teaspoonfuls of beef extract (or use strong beef stock instead 
of the water and extract), and let simmer five minutes. 
Strain before serving. 

RICE 

On account of the small percentage of woody fibre, or cel- 
lulose, found in connection with the starch, rice may be 
classed as an easily digested food. There are many varieties 
of rice; some contain little else than starch and water, while 
others contain in addition a small percentage of gluten. The 
statement is often made that some Eastern people live almost 
exclusively on rice, but facts do not verify these statements. 
The Chinese and Japanese simply use rice as we use bread 
and potatoes. Combined with eggs, cheese, milk or meat 
juices rice may be made a representative food, but rice alone 
will not sustain life continuously. 



PLAIN BOILED RICE 531 



COOKING RICK 

There are several ways of cooking rice, each of which has 
points of merit, at least, for those who advocate the method. 
As a rule rice-growing people prefer the rice grains less tender 
than do those of Northern climes, just as the Italians prefer 
macaroni in a state which by many would be called an under- 
done condition. But soft or not, all wish rice dry. The 
quantity of liquid that the grain will absorb depends upon 
the variety of the rice, the season in which it was grown, the 
time it has been kept, and the liquid used. These things 
affect, also, the time of cooking. Rice will absorb in cooking 
from two and a half to four times its bulk of liquid. When 
three cups of water would suffice, three and a half or four 
cups of milk or tomato pur^e are required. 

Rice needs be thoroughly cleansed before cooking. It 
may be washed in several waters, being rubbed, meanwhile, 
between the hands, but the most satisfactory way is to blanch 
rice. Put the rice over a hot fire in a large saucepan of cold 
water and stir, occasionally, while it is heating; let boil five 
minutes, then drain on a sieve and pass cold water from the 
faucet through it. The rice is now beautifully white and 
clean and the grains do not adhere to each other. To cook, 
return to the fire, covered with the hot liquid, whatever this 
be, in which it is to be cooked, let cook rapidly until nearly 
all the liquid is absorbed, then finish cooking over hot water. 
If the liquid be milk, cook from the first, after blanching, in 
the double-boiler. 

BOILED RICE (JAPANESE COOK) 

Wash the rice thoroughly; cook, in four times as much 

water, directly over the fire. Use a tightly covered saucepan, 

that the moisture or steam may be absorbed by the rice. 

Have the fire less brisk at the last of the cooking than at 

first. 

PLAIN BOILED RICE 

Cover the blanched rice with a relatively large quantity 
of salted boiling water and let cook rapidly in an uncovered 



332 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

saucepan until the gr^iRS arg tgfl.d.ejr; drain off the water, 
cover the saucepan with a cloth and let stand on the back of 
the range to dry. Serve in a hot dish. 

RlgOTTO 

1 cup of rice. I 1-2 teaspooafuls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Paprika. 

1-2 aji onion. 2 to 3 cups of stQcferQr water, 

I pup 0/ tom^,to pulp. 1-2 a cup o(f gr3,te(i cheese. 

Pt;t the rj,ce oyer the fire with plenty of cold water, and let 
boil five niii;iute§, th,en drain and rinse, Melt the butter iij. a 
saucepan, add ]bhe onion and rice, let cook until the butter 
is absorbed, thep add the tonj.ato pulp, salt, paprika, and the 
liquid; let cook until the rice is tender and the liquid absorbed, 
then stir in the cheese carefully, Take out the onion. Use 
a fork and stir or lift the rice carefully, to avoid breaking the 
grains. Serve very hot, 

SAVORY RJQP 

I Set a cup of rice over the fire in three pints of cold water, 
let conje quickly to the boiling point, .%nd bolj five minutes, 
then drain through a colander, rinsing with cold water. Re- 
turn to the fire with a qijart of boiljng water, one teaspoonful 
of salt, and tjje juic^ of half ^ lemon, shakp the pan, occa- 
sionally, Ipst the rice bum, and add a little more water if neces- 
sary, or set, on an asbegtos mat, gr into a pan of water. When 
tender stir in very carefully, one fourth a cup of butter creamed 
with a tablespoonful of curry-powder. Serve with nieat, 
particularly cfeicJfgii gr yegl. 

TURKISH Pi;.AF 

Set one cup aijd a half of stock, with one cup of stewed an.d 
straijipd tPRiatp, over the fire, When boiling add one cup 
of well- washed or blanched rice and half a teaspoonful of salt; 
stir lightly with a fovU., occasionally, yntil the liquor is ab- 
sorbed. Then add half a cup of butter an'd cook over hot 
water until tender; remove, cover and stir with a fork "before 
serving. 



PLAIN RICE CROQUETTES $33 



f Srboil tfitee-fourtlis' a cttp- of tide nt boiling ^atef five 
ttiiniites and dr^in on a sieve. Pour boiling watet oVer oiie- 
foilrth a pound of bacon, thert dfaiift, cut in'to inch pieces and 
s&viti to a light ye'ffo'w c'oibr'. Addf the rice, three Cups of 
stock Of water', aii'd a dash of peppet ; I'et sfintaei' uiitil tender, 
theh add a ciap of well-fedttced tOiSiato- pur^e (tomatoes ji'asSed 
thil'ough a sievfe arid siflimered utdii thitk), rdi± thoroughly, 
ttim iii a mOufid On a dish, and arraft'gfe cutis of fried bacoft 
on the sides of' the moiind. 

SAV'OKIr RICE eROQtrE!l''l'ES 

I- 2' a tup of riee. A piece of teid' pepp'ef 1 

i cu;f) 6f stocii. i egg. 

2 eups- ol totnalloeS'. i - 2 a; ciap of g¥ated! cheese. 

AsiKceiof onion. 1 tablespobnful of butter. 

A sprig of parsley. 1-4 ateaspooiiful of paprtWaif 

2 cloves. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Cover the rice with cold water and bring quickly to the 
boiling point; let boil five minutes, then draiii, rinse in cbld 
water and drain again. Cook fhe tomatoes with the onion, 
parsley, cloves, and red pepper fifteen niiniites and.piass 
tbrough a sieve ; add to the rice with f he stock, paprika aiid 
salt and cook over hot water, until ihe rice is terider and the 
liquid absorbed, then add the cheese, butter,, and beateii egg. 
Spread on a dish to cool (do not let if become too cold)", then 
s&ape and fiiiiisih aS' aJfty cfOlqiBSttes.. 

PLAIN RICE CROQUETTES 

1-2 a* cvTp of rice. 1-2^ a teaspooniul of salt. 

I cup of boilimg water. Yolks of 2 eggs or i whole egg. 

I cup of hot milk. • 2 tafcfespoonfuls of Gutter. 

Mtoch iMe rice' a& above, cook i* a. double boiler with the 
WafSer, milt,- afi'd saDt,. until the rice is tender and the liqiiiid is 
^b^otfeed; stir iifi! tlSe- beaten eggS' and the butter;' let cool and 
fi*iiish ss/ tfSual. 



334 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



RICK, MILANAISK FASHION 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a stewpan, and when 
hot cook in it, without browning, a slice of onion, chopped; 
then add half a cup of rice, thoroughly washed, and about a 
quart of stock (white) or hot water. Cook until the rice is 
tender and the liquid is absorbed ; then add two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cheese and salt, if needed. Stir gently with a 
fork, turn into a serving-dish, and sprinkle the top with a 
little more of the grated cheese. Serve as a vegetable, or 
as a luncheon dish, either with or without a brown sauce. 

RICE, WITH PARSLEY OR CHIVES. 

Cook half a cup of blanched rice in boiling salted water 
until tender (an aluminoid dish will be found useful for this 
purpose) ; add two tablespoonfuls of butter and one teaspoon- 
ful of fine-chopped parsley or chives; mix gently so as to 
avoid breaking the grains. Serve as a vegetable. 

RICE, CREOLE STYLE 

Chop fine a white onion and two green peppers, saut^ with 
half a cup of raw ham, shredded rather fine, in one-fourth a 
cup of butter; cook about ten minutes, then add a cup of 
blanched rice and three cups of beef broth, simmer twenty 
minutes, then add four tomatoes, peeled and cut in slices, and 
one teaspoonful of salt. Cover and finish cooking in the 
oven or in a double-boiler. 

HOT RICE PREPARATION TO SERVE WITH COMPOTES 
OF FRUIT 

Blanch one cup of rice; add salt and one quart of milk or 
hot water and cook until the liquid is absorbed and the rice 
is tender, adding more liquid if needed. Add one-fourth a 
cup of butter, one-fourth a cup of sugar, and, if desired, the 
grated rind and juice of half a lemon or one teaspoonful of 
vanilla extract; mix thoroughly without breaking the kernels 
of rice. Butter a round basin or a border mould and press 
the rice into this. Set into the oven for ten minutes, then 
turn on to a serving-dish. 



, MACARONI MILANESI 335 

RICE FOR SWEET CROQUETTES 

Cook a cup of rice blanched and salted in three cups of 
milk until tender and dry; add three egg yolks, one-fourth 
a cup, each, of butter, sugar, whipped cream, and candied 
orange peel shredded fine. When cool form into peach- shapes, 
egg-and-breadcrumb, and fry in deep fat. Insert angelica 
for stalks. Serve with cold fruit syrup or with fresh fruit 
dressed with sugar, 

MACARONI 

The Italians are most skilful in preparing appetizing and 
economical dishes. The nutritive food stuff which often 
forms the foundation of these is macaroni, made from a wheat 
flour rich in gluten. At the Italian stores in large cities 
many quaint styles of macaroni may be found. Some are 
saffron tinted; some for soups are shaped like the letters of 
the alphabet, others are in threads, and still others are in 
plain bands or ribbons and bands with a fluted edge. All 
the different varieties are cooked alike, except that some 
require longer cooking than others. In Italy the common 
name for all varieties is "pasta," macaroni being the name 
for the common stick pasta with a hole through it. Spaghetti 
is usually cooked unbroken, the ends of the long slender 
sticks of paste are put into boiling water, and then as the 
heat and moisture soften the sticks they are coiled in the sauce- 
pan. When tender and blanched the cooking and dressing 
is the same as for -macaroni. Macaroni proper is broken into 
short pieces of uniform length and cooked in rapidly boiling 
salted water until tender, then drained and rinsed in cold 
water. Thus treated the pieces do not adhere, one to another, 
' nor is the dish at all mushy. 

MACARONI MILANESI 

Put one-fourth a cup of butter, or drippings, into the frying- 
pan and when melted saut^ in it an onion, sliced thin, a stalk 
of celery, cut into cubes, and a sprig of parsley; stir, to keep 
from burning, and when of a golden brown add a can of 
tomato, season with salt and pepper and let simmer about 



336 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

half an uour, or until the watery juice is evaporated. Mean- 
while cook hatt a package of macaroni in Spiling salted water; 
let boil about twenty minutes or tiiitil tender but in perfect 
slkape, drain and rinse in cold water, then set in a hot plac6. 
Press the tomato sauce thrbtigh a sieve fiHe enough to keep- 
ba:ck the seeds, but coarse enough to let the ptolp pass through 
(it S-hOtiHd be of the consisteA'cy of thick cream). DuSt ahoft 
piattetf with Pa;rmesa-n cheese, e'oV'er ■Vfr'ith rtiacaroni, poiit 
over sauce, add grated cheese, then more macaroni saiic'e 
and cheese until all is used. Then with a spoon and fork • 
gently turn the macaroni over and over until it is thoroughly 
mixed with the sauce ; add a generous sprinkling of cheese to 
the top and serve. Mix quickly that th'e macaroni may be 
served hot. 

MACARONI A LA ITALIEKNB 

1-4 a p'ottn'ti bf rh'a'caroni. t-4 a teasp'666ful of pa'priita. 

2 t-a'Mes^tobA'fulW of biil!ter. 1-2 a cup of brown stock. 

2 tablegpoorifuls of floii'r. i - 2 a oii*^ of iorm^ta pulp',- 

t-'j a teaspoonf 111 of salt. -rt-feU f educfed. 

1-4 to 1-2 a cup of grated cheese. 

Mike a sduCe of the buttef, flour, s6asonih:gs, stock, and 
tetnato pulp. The toirikto pulp' should be quite thick fi'ofti 
long cooking. Add the maca'rbni, cooked tmtil tender; in boif- 
iilg Salted' water, rinsed and drained'. Reheat in douMe 
boileT, adding the cheese rtieanVhile. Setve -v^^hen the cheese 
is meKed and the ■v^'hole is ■<rei'y hot. 

MOULDED MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Cook tbree-fourths a cup of macaroni, broken! in small 
piecesy in rapidly b<!)iling, salted water half art hout. Drain, 
then add a cup of milk, and cook until thte milk is ajb^orbed-j 
then stir into one cup of white sauce (use three tablespoonfuls 
of flour in making the saii'ce), add two tablespoonfuls or more 
of grated cheese, and, when eooled a little,, two' eggs beaiien 
light. Turn mt(> a buttered border mould,. spri#kMd with 
breadcruiAbs, and poach,, standing in a pan of hot water,. 
about twenty-fi've minutes. Tiirn from the mould, and fill 
the centre with tomatoes stewed witb mushrooms. 



MACARONI AND CHEESE 337 



TOMATOES WITH MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Cook half a pound of macaroni in rapidly boiling salted water 
until tender. Scald one pint of cream over hot water, add half 
a pound of cheese, cut in thin shavings, and stir until the cheese 
is melted; add a dash of salt and paprika. ELave ready, 
in a serving-dish, five or six baked tomatoes (skin and core 
removed before baking); dispose the macaroni in a wreath 
around the tomatoes, pour the cheese mixture over the whole, 
and serve very hot. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN 

Mix three-fourths a cup of macaroni, that has been cooked 
as usual, with a cup of cream or tomato sauce ; add from one- 
fourth to half a cup of grated cheese, turn into an au gratin 
dish, cover with buttered cracker-crumbs and set into a hot 
oven to brown the crumbs. 

BAKED MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Put cooked macaroni and grated cheese into an au gratin 
dish in alternate layers, cover with milk and let cook until 
the cheese is melted and the milk is partly absorbed. One or 
two beaten eggs may be added with the milk and the whole 
baked slowly until the egg is set. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE, GARNISH OF WELSH RABBIT 

garnish: 
1-2 a pound of macaroni. 1-4 a pound of cheese. 

1-4 a pound of cheese. 1-4 a cup of cream. 

1-4 a pound of butter. The yolk of i egg. 

Salt and paprika. Salt and paprika. 

Cook the macaroni as usual, grate the cheese and melt the 
butter. Put the macaroni, cheese and butter in layers in a 
baking-dish that will stand the heat of the oven; sprinkle 
each layer with salt and pepper, and set the dish into the 
oven. Melt the second quarter pound of cheese, add the salt 
and pepper, and, very gradually, the yolk of the egg, beaten 



338 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and diluted with the cream; stir constantly while the cheese 
is melting and until the mixture is smooth. Spread upon 
diamond-shaped pieces of bread toasted upon one side, placing 
the rabbit upon. the untoasted side. Dispose these on the 
top of the macaroni and serve at once. 



CHAPTER XI 
Chafing Dish Cookery and Service 

" Let him then be boiled gently over a chafing dish with wood coles. " 

— IzAAK Walton. 

"The ineats were kept warm by chafing dishes." 

— Prescott, " Conquest of Mexico." 

The drigin of the chafing-dish dates back to the period of 
unwritten history. Its use was common at least two thousand 
years ago. Like the brazier, chafing-dishes were once made 
of bronze and rested on the floor. As occasion demanded 
they were carried from room to room by means of handles on 
the sides. The authepsa - of the Greeks and Romans — a 
saucepan of Corinthian brass — was also a species of chafing- 
dish, having several features of the modem chafing-dish. All 
of these appliances were a combination of sauce-pan and heat 
generator, though the authepsa was probably used simply 
to heat water or to keep it hot. Formerly the heat was sup- 
plied by live wood coals or the flame of burning oil. The 
ancient dishes were intended for gentle cooking or simmering, 
and for keeping hot food that had been cooked by other means. 
This is the rightful province of the modern chafing-dish 
and all other cooking, save that of a gentle simmering, should 
be left for some more appropriate utensil. 

This degree of heat, that of simmering, is well adapted to 
the cooking of eggs, oysters, and cheese, and the reheating of 
cooked materials in a sauce, the sauce having been first made 
in the blazer of the chafing-dish. 

The blazer, a hot-water pan and a lamp are the indispens- 
able parts of the chafing-dish — the hot-water pan is some, 
times though erroneously, omitted. A tray upon which the 
dish may rest, while the lamp is lighted, insures the tablecloth 
against fire from below. Light wooden spoons, shaped from 

339 



340 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

French apple-tree, or olive wood, and highly polished, are light 
and noiseless, and thus suitable for dining-room cookery. 
The bowls of such spoons being very small, silver forks and 
spoons, designed especially for serving, are called into re- 
quisition, when the cooking has been completed. 

Often young people, whose experience in cooking is limited, 
inquire. How are we to know when to use the hot-water pan ? 
To the amateur cook, who is desirous of making a success of 
chaflng-dish cookery, we would suggest the perusal of Chap- 
ter II. They will then readily understand that if roux is to 
be made for the thickening of a sauce, the blazer should be set 
directly over the flame, in order to secure the strong heat 
necessary to cook starch. Also that, if eggs are to be added 
to a mixture, or if milk is to be heated or cheese melted, the 
hot-water pan should be in place, to temper the heat ever 
inimical to the digestibility of nitrogeneous substances. 

FUEL 

When alcohol is to be used in the lamp of the chafing-dish 
the best is none too good and, in the end, is the cheapest. 

With the ordinary chafing-dish lamp, in which the" alcohol 
is burned in a cup filled with asbestos stone, covered with a 
wire netting, the alcohol is turned into the lamp through a 
central opening. As soon as the lamp is filled, the cap cover- 
ing this opening should be fitted in place and kept in place 
until the alcohol is consumed, otherwise it is impossible to 
control the flame. The filler is a desirable utensil, when the 
alcohol needs be renewed. The lamp usually holds about 
one-fourth a cup ; this, if of good quality, will burn about half 
an hour. A similar fuel in solid form is now prepared for this 
use. Any make of chafing-dish may be heated with gas or 
electricity, if it be connected with the supply. A gas burner 
or an electric stove may be fitted inside the frame of the chafing 
dish, then with rubber tubing for gas, or flexible cord for 
electricity, the frame may be connected with the supply that 
is used for lighting the room. At stores, where gas appliances 
are on sale, may be found portable frames fitted with gas 
burners and with rubber tubing attached, upon which the 
hot-water pan or blazer is set for cooking. 



REGARDING "RABBITS" 341 

Unless gas or electricity be the fuel, chafing-dish eookfery 
consumes much time and is not adapted to general use ; but 
the sick room, the Sunday night tea, arid the meatis for diver- 
sion on a stormy day, to say nothirtg of the little "snack" 
after "the play'' will afford abundant opportunities in which 
to test the virtues of many a dish that, eateti at its best, 
should be served {he instant it is perfectly cOOked. 

As the chafing-dish stands very high above. the ordinary 
dining-room table, the first requisite to ease in cooking is a 
chair with a rather high seat. Also a haSsock beneath the 
table for the feet is convenient for her who keeps watch over 
the contents of the blazer. As this meal is ofteil prepared 
and served without the assistance of a maid, everything should 
be in readiness befor.hafld; and, when space allows, the greater 
part of the food for the meal may be in place while the Cooking 
is going on. A tray holding the cups, spoons, etc., needed 
in Cooking is a convenience on the dining table, but when this 
necessitates a crowded table, a small table at the left of the 
"cook " may be drawn upon for this purpose. If this be upon 
castors, it may be wheeled aside after the hot course from 
the chafing-dish has been disposed of, and thus iS made A 
comparatively easy solution of the problem of soiled dishes On 
the table. Hors d'ceuvres, substantial or otherwise, according 
to the occasion, form a fitting first course of the chafing-dish 
meal and take up the time While the cooking is going on. 

REGARDING "RABBITS" 

Any of the Various forms of rabbit or rarebit, the bright 
and particular gem of the cook's repertoire for the chafing^ 
dish, may be made successfully, coming out smooth and 
delectable, provided only they be stirred constantly and cooked 
without boiling. 

An expert does not require the hot-water pan, until the cook- 
ing is completed and serving is in order; because she lifts the 
blazer from the flame oft and again whenever her practised 
eye discerns that boiling is imminent at any point. The 
amateur needs to use the hot- water pah from start to finish. 
Every one who essays a rabbit knows that Stirring, indefatig- 



342 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

able and untiring, is also a sine qua non of the perfect dish. 
American factory cheese gives the foundation for these tid- 
bits, the softer it is, the more readily will it melt upon the 
application of heat, a condition devoutly looked forward to by 
the novice. Any of the fancy brands of potted cheese may 
be added in small quantities for a change of flavor. The mild 
paprika is the favorite pepper, and soda is added to replace 
the salts lost in the whey during the cheese-making process. 
Recipes for "rabbits" are given under the chapter on Cheese. 
For a variation, try spreading the toast with anchovy paste, 
or add to the rabbit just before serving a few anchovy fillets, 
picked into small pieces. 

OYSTERS 

In purchasing oysters for chafing-dish, as for all cookery, 
if possible, see them taken from the shells. Oysters, in bulk, 
are usually treated with " preservatives " ; and those who have 
looked into the subject even casually, know that we are being 
"preserved to death" by eating veritably embalmed and pre- 
served food products. For all sorts of stews, creamed and 
curried dishes, let the oysters, freed from shell and washed, 
stand in a pitcher from which they may be readily turned into 
the blazer. 

OYSTERS WITH CREAM 

1 1-4 cups of cream. The yolks of two eggs. ^ 

2 dozen oysters (well drained) . Salt and pepper. 

Scald a cup of cream in the blazer over hot water, and add 
che oysters, washed and freed from bits of shell; when the 
oysters begin to look plump and the edges frill, add the yolks, 
beaten and diluted with one-fourth a cup of cream, with about 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a da§h of pepper. Serve on 
buttered toast. 

OYSTER STEW 

1 1-2 cups of rich milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 dozen oysters. Salt and pepper. 

1-4 a cup of cracker crumbs. 

Scald the milk over hot water and a^dd the oysters. When 
they look plump, add the crumbs, butter, and seasonings. 
Serve with crackers. , 




MATERIALS FOR CANNED SALMON AND HARD-BOILED EGGS 
IN CURRY SAUCE. (See page 343.) 




MACARONI AND CHEESE, GARNISH OF WELSH RABBIT. 

(See pak^c ,^.17.) 




FORK AND SPOON FOR CHAFING-DISH SERVICE. 



SHAD ROE CREAMED AND CURRIED 343 

OYSTER STEW, NO. 2 

Make a sauce in the blazer of two tablespoonfuls, each, of 
butter and flour and a cup of rich milk ; if the flavor be wished, 
saut^ a slice of onion in the butter without letting either the 
butter or onion take color; add the oyster liquor, previously- 
strained, and when again hot add the oysters. Season and 
serve as soon as the oysters look plump. 

CREAMED DISHES 

Eggs, oysters, lobsters, crabs, shrimps, fish, chicken or 
lamb, tongue, etc., peas, asparagus-tips, etc., are the ingred- 
ients usually selected for these dishes. Make a white sauce, 
using stock, milk or cream, or a part of each as the liquid; 
season with a few drops of onion juice, chopped parsley, 
celery-salt, paprika or curry-powder, and add the cooked 
article; oysters need be parboiled and drained before being 
added to the sauce or the large quantity of liquid in them 
will change the dish to a stew. Fish is improved for a creamed 
dish by standing in a marinade (lemon and onion juice, 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper) some hours before reheating 
in the chafing-dish. 

SHAD ROE CREAMED AND CURRIED 

Cook the roe in salted, acidulated water; let the water 
simmer very gently, to avoid breaking the outside skin of the 
foe. Cut the roe in scallops or cubes, marinate with lemon 
and onion juice, salt and pepper, cover and let stand some 
hours. When ready to serve prepare a white sauce in the 
blazer, add the roe and let stand over hot water to reheat. 
Sweetbread and calf's brains are particularly good prepared 
in the same way. A tablespoonful of curry-powder added 
with the flour gives a change from the usual white sauce. 

HALIBUT AND LOBSTER A LA HOLLANDAISE 

I pound of raw halibut. 3-4 a cup of butter. 

I two-poun-d lobster. The yolks of four eggs. 

Salt and paprika. i cup of hot water. 

The juice of half a lemon. 



344 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cut the fish in inch cubes and cook until tender in salted 
acidulated water, or stock made from the trimmings of the 
fish and the body bones of the lobster with a few bits of vege- 
table; drain the fish and when cold add to it the flesh of the 
lobster, cut into cubes, a dash of Salt and paprika, and the juice 
of half a lemon; set aside until ready to use. Put into the 
blazer, over* hot water, the butter, beaten to a cf earn, and beat 
into this, one at a time, the yolks of four eggs, then gradually 
one cup of hot water; when all the water has been added and 
the sauce is smooth and thick, stir in the fish and lobster 
with the lemon juice. Serve as soon as the mixture is hot. 

LOBSTER, CREOLE STYLE 

1 sweet gfeen pepper, seeded. 2 tablespdonfuls of butter. 

I tomato, peeled and seeded. i 1-2 cups of chicken broth. 

I slice of onion or 3 two-pound lobsters. 
I tablespoonful of onion juice. 

Chop fine the pepper, tomato and onion and cook in the 
butter until softened; add the broth, let simmer five minutes, 
then add the lobster meat, cut in small pieces, and salt if 
needed. Serve very hot. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH ANCHOVIES OR SARDINES 

Drain the anchovies or sardines, to free them from the oil of 
the Can, then remove skin or scales and bones and pick the 
fillets into small pieces. If salted anchovies be used, soak in 
milk or Water six or more hours. Beat five eggs slightly;' 
add salt and pepper, as desired, and five tablespoonfuls of 
water, milk or cream. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the blazer directly over the flame and put in the pieces of 
fish, (there should be half a cup more or less as taste ap- 
proves), shake the blazer a moment, then turn in the egg 
mixture and cook as scrambled eggs. 

EGGS SCRAMBLED WITH CHEESE 

Beat five eggs until a full spoonful of egg can be taken up ; 
add a few grains, each, of salt and pepper, five tablespoon- 
fuls, each, of cream or water, and grated cheese, turn into a 



' CRABS A LA CREOLE 345 

hot blazer, oiled with butter, and cook and stir until the mix- 
ture is lightly set, then serve at once. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATOES AND GREEN PEPPER 

Remove the seeds and veins from a green pepper and cut 
it in shreds. Scald five tomatoes, remove the skins, and cut 
in quarters ; cook the pepper and tomatoes in two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter until the liquid is reduced, then season with 
salt and keep hot- Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
second blazer, pour in six eggs, beaten without separating) 
until a full spoonful can be taken up, and season with salt. 
Stir and cook until the eggs become thick and creamy; add, 
meanwhile, two tablespoonfuls of butter in pieces. Serve the 
two dishes together. 

SWEETBREADS A LA NEWBURG 

Heat one cup of cream in the blazer over hot water. Add 
one cup and a half of sweetbreads, parboiled, cooled, and cut 
in cubes. Beat the yolks of three eggs, add a scant half-tea- 
SpOonful of salt and a few grains of cayenne, dilute with a little 
of the hot cream, and stir into the mixture. Stir until 
thickened slightly. Add half a cup of sherry wine, then 
serve at once. Half a cup of cooked mu&hfooms is an im- 
provement to the dish. Calves' brains may be substituted 
for a part or all of the sweetbread. Oysters, fish, chicken, 
etc., may be prepared in the same manner. 
CRABS A LA CREOLE 

i-4acupof butter. i - 2 a cup of white stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sweet i cup of crab meat or 

Spanish pepper, chopped. 4 soft shell crabs, cut in halves. 

2 tablespoonfuls of onion, chopped. 1-2 a cup of sHced mushrooms. 

I cup of tomato pur^e. Salt as needed. 

Melt the butter ; cook in it the pepper, onion, and mushrooms 
five minutes, then add the stock and tomato pufde; let boil, 
then add the crab meat, cover and let simmer over hot water 
ten minutes. 



346 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CREAMED CHICKEN, POTATOES AND PEPPERS 

Sautd half a green pepper,"chopped fine, in three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter five or six minutes. Add three tablespoonfuls 
of flour and half a teaspoonful of salt. When frothy, add 
gradually a cup of chicken stock and half a cup of cream, 
stir until smooth and at the boiling point, then set over hot 
water and heat in the sauce one cup of chicken, cut in cubes, 
and half a cup of cold cooked potatoes, also cut in cubes. 
Turnip, carrot, peas, or asparagus-tips may be substituted 
for the potato. 

CURRY OF MACARONI 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter; cook in it two slices of 
onion until the onion becomes of a pale straw color, then add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of curry-powder, 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. When 
blended with the butter, add gradually one cup of milk, and 
stir until smooth and boiling. Then strain over one cup of 
macaroni, cooked until tender in boiling salted water, and then 
drained and rinsed in cold water. Reheat and serve. » Two 
tablespoonfuls of tomato pulp may be added, if desired. 

ASPARAGUS A LA INDIENNE 

Make a curry sauce as above, and beat into it a cup of cooked 
asparagus-tips (fresh cooked or canned). Serve with sippets 
of toast, or with finger-length bits of bread, sauted in the 
blazer. 

HOT HAM SANDWICHES 

Spread slices of bread, cut for sandwiches, with chopped 
ham, seasoned w'ith a little mustard and press the slices 
together in pairs. Beat an egg, add half a cup of rich milk 
and soak the sandwiches in the mixture a few moments. Heat 
a tablespoonful or more of butter in the blazer and in it brown 
the sandwiches, first on one side and then on the other. Drain 
on soft paper and serve at once. 



CURRY OF DUCK 347 



MUTTON RECHAUFFE 

To a pint of thin slices of cold mutton, neatly trimmed, 
add the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of onion juice, 
a tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley, half a cup of cold 
stock (that in which the mutton was cooked will do), and a 
teaspoonful of Worcester sauce; let the meat stand two or 
three hours. Make in the blazer a cup and a half of rather 
thick sauce; add the meat and such liquid as has not been 
absorbed, salt and pepper, and a teaspoonful of capers or fine- 
chopped cucumber pickles. Let stand over hot water until 
very hot. Serve on toast, or with mashed potato cakes, 
sauted in a second blazer. 

SALMI OF DUCK WITH GREEN PEAS 

Saut^ three or four slices of bacon, cut in small squares, 
with a tablespoonful of fine-chopped young onions; when 
delicately colored, add one-fourth a cup of nut-brown flour, 
then, gradually, one cup and a half of stock, made from the 
trimmings of the duck, and a sprig or two of mint; let simmer 
five or six minutes, then add a cup of meat, cut from cold roast 
ducks, and a cup of cooked green peas. Let heat over hot 
water, season with salt and pepper, remove the mint and serve. 

CURRY OF DUCK 

Saute two or three thick slices of onion in one-fourth a cup 
of butter; add one-fourth a cup of flour, and one tablespoonful 
of curry-powder; when well blended add, gradually, two cups 
of stock made from the trimmings of the duck with a little 
beef or fowl, salt and pepper, half an apple, grated, and the 
juice of an orange; let simmer five minutes, then remove the 
onion and add two cups of tender duck meat, cut in thin 
slices ; let stand over hot water until thoroughly heated. This 
dish, as all curries, is at its best when reheated. Prepare as 
above, and if the duck is not tender, let the slices simmer 
in the sauce until they are tender, then set aside until time of 
serving and reheat over hot water. 



348 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



ORANGE OMELET (PAULINE DOUGHTY) 

S eggs. 5 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar 

5 tablespoonfuls of ofange juice. A few grains of salt. 
The grated rind of one orange. Sliced oranges. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until lemon colored and thick; add 
the orange rind and juice and the sugar; fold in the whites, 
beaten very light, with the salt. Oil the chafing-dish with one 
tablespoonful of butter, turn in the mixture, and cook over 
hot water fifteen or twenty minutes. Bfown slightly by hold- 
ing the blazer directly over the flame. Extinguish the lamp 
and serve, without folding, from the blazer with a dressing 
of sliced oranges and powdered sugar. 

DEVILLED CHESTNUTS 

Hoast the chestnuts, after removing a small piece of shell, 
until tender; remove the shells and inner skin. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter into the blazer and when hot saut^ in this 
a cup of the roasted chestnuts ; sprinkle with salt and paprika. 
Serve with the cheese and salad course, or with a rabbit. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 

a ounces of unsweetened chocolate. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla ex^ 

1-2 a cup of granulated sugar. tract. 

4 tablespoonfuls of hot water. 2 eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 1-4 a cup of milk. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, then add the sugar and 
hot water and cook directly over the flames until smooth and 
glossy. Beat the yolk of the eggs, dilute with a tablespoonful 
of the cream, add the rest of the cream and the milk to the 
chocolate mixture and stir until it boils. Set the blazer into 
the hot-water pan, add the yolks and, when blended with the 
hot mixture and thickened slightly, fold in the stiff-beaten 
whites of the eggs atid cook over the hot water ten minutes or 
until the A^hites of the eggs are set and the mixture is spongy. 
Serve with whipped cream, sweetened arid flavored ' with 
vanilla before whipping. 



GRAPE JUICE SPONGE 349 



GRAPE-JUICE SPONGE 

Scald one pint of grape juice in the blazer, stir in one-fourth 
a cup of any quick-cooking tapioca, mixed with half a cup of 
sugar, then set the blazer over hot water and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until the tapioca is transparent; then add the 
juice of half a lemon and a few grains of salt ^nd fold in the 
stiff-beaten whites of two eggs. Serve with cream and sugar. 



CHAPTER XII 
Salads, Sandwiches and Hors d'CEuvres 

SALADS AND SALAD MAKING 

"An olive, capers, or some better salad. " — Ben Jonson. 

"Our Garrick's a salad, for in him we see 

Oil, vinegar, sugar and saltness agree ! " — Goldsmith. 

Certain uncooked plants, fruits, and nuts, also cooked 
vegetables and meats, -seasoned with condiments and dressed 
with oil, cream or butter slightly acidulated, constitute what 
is known as salads. 

Long ago in the time of Virgil many ingredients were brayed 
together in a mortar to produce some delectable dish, but 
without doubt even then as now the simpler the salad the 
better it was. " Striving to better, oft we mar what's well. " 

The list of plants eaten uncooked as salads by people in 
general is small, and it has scarcely been added to since the 
days of antiquity. Lettuce, known since the earliest times, and 
cultivated in England for more than two hundred years, has 
always been the favorite salad plant, though radishes were once 
served on plates of gold, — emperors vying with one another 
to secure the greatest degree of transparency in the vegetable. 
Black radishes, cultivated in the times of the Romans, are no 
longer in great demand. The varieties of lettuce are numer- 
ous, but all belong to two principal groups : the cabbage let- 
tuce, named from similarity in growth to the vegetable whose 
name it bears, and the cos lettuce, the long firm leaves of 
which form a long erect head. Romaine belongs to this class. 
Celery, cucumbers and cabbage divide the honor of a second 
position, then follow watercress, endive, escarole, pepper- 
grass, dandelion, purslane, and sorrel. Hot-house cucumbers 

35° 



CLEANSING SALAP PLANTS 351 

and lettuce are now largely grown by the aid of electric lights. 
Dandelion, cultivated in rich soil, is broad leaved (compara- 
tively), tender and easily made crisp. It is usually blanched 
for use in salads. When the leaves first appear the, plant is 
covered with a saucer or fiower-pot, then, when the leaves are 
of sufficient size, they are beautifully white. When cleaned, 
crisped, dried, and dressed with French dressing the dandelion 
makes a most healthful salad. Purslane and sorrel are used 
in combination with other plants and obviate the use of acid 
in the dressing. There are but few cooked vegetables, if 
there be any, that cannot, either in combination or singly, be 
served as salads, of All it may be said, as Gerarde said of 
asparagus, "The first sprouts and tender shoots be oftentimes 
sodden in flesh broth and eaten boiled in faire water, and 
seasoned with oil, vinegar, and pepper, they are served up as 
a salad. " 

Olive oil, the dressing par excellence of a salad, is a form of 
fat that, eaten in moderation, agrees with almost every one ; 
its use gives "strength and suppleness." It lubricates the 
alimentary tract and acts as a germicide. Its use is strongly 
advocated in health as well as in all wasting diseases. The first 
requisite in salad plants is crisp tenderness. Tenderness is 
secured by quick growth in rich soil with plenty of moisture 
and suitable light: we say suitable, as many are made tender 
as well as white by blanching or growing away from the light. 
Crispness is usually secured by proper care in the kitchen. 
After thorough cleaning, let stand about half an hour in very 
cold water, to which a little lemon juice or vinegar has been 
added. Gather green vegetables from the garden in the early 
morning or after sunset, keep in a cool place, closely wrapped 
in paper or in a closed vessel (a tin pail is a convenient utensil), 
to exclude the air. To avoid a rusty appearance — especially 
is this the case with celery — postpone the use of water until a 
short time before serving. 

CLEANSING SALAD PLANTS 

Too much care cannot be exercised in cleansing salad plants. 
First of all, cut off the earthy root, remove coarse or discolored 



3S2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

leaves, and wasl. thoroughly; each leaf of lettuce needs careful 
attention, lest the tiny insects of the same color as the lettuce 
itself, which so often infest the plant, be retained; watercress 
needs careful attention for the same reason. Crisp as above, 
then drain and swing lightly in wire basket (salad plant 
drainer) or in a coarse net or piece of cheesecloth. Wipe each 
leaf of lettuce without bruising it; dry shredded cabbage, 
sliced cucumbers, radishes, celery, etc., between folds of soft 
cheesecloth ; then let stand exposed to the air a few moments. 
This careful drying is necessary, as oil and water do not com- 
mingle and a salad is perfectly dressed only when each indi^ 
vidual leaf or bit of vegetable is lightly coated with oil or 
appropriate dressing. 

PREPARATION OF SAI.AD MATERIALS 

Formerly it was considered a culinary sin to cut lettuce 
with a knife : the proper thing was to shred the leaves with the 
fingers. Steel knives gave an unpleasant taste to the dressed 
salad, but by use of a silver or silver-plated knife the trouble 
is obviated. Before dressing, if quickly done, lettuce may be 
cut with any kind of a clean, well-polished knife. The varie- 
ties of cos lettuce may be more artistically arranged, especially 
in compound salads, if the leaves be cut in ribbons of uniform 
width. Lay the leaves one above another in a pile, then cut 
through all at once. It certainly would be a sin against 
beauty, to cut the delicate heart leaves of cabbage lettuce. 

A thick paring should be cut from cucumbers. Radishes 
make an effective looking salad when sliced without removing 
the pink skin; both should be sliced or cut in uniform pieces. 
Cubes of cucumber rather than slices give variety. Cooked 
vegetables should be firm, that they may be cut in neat pieces 
of uniform shape and size. For this reason, new potatoes are 
better than old. Salad herbs and plants have but little food 
value: they are simply appetizers. In complex salads, or 
salads of many ingredients, nutritious food materials are 
mixed with those that are simply savory, or spicy and crisp, 
and such salads not only tempt the appetite, but satisfy it. 
These nutritious articles, whether cooked vegetables, meat c 



FRENCH DRESSING 353 

fish, before being combined with the crisp plants, are usually- 
marinated or allowed to stand some time in a French dressing, 
all or a part of which they will absorb. 

DRAINING SALAD MATERIALS 

When mayonnaise or a thick boiled dressing is to be used 
with salad material that has been marinated, the marinade 
is carefully drained off, lest it thin the dressing that is to be 
added. 

POINTS TO BE REMEMBERED IN SALAD MAKING 

(i) Salad herbs and plants should be clean, cold and crisp. 

(2) Salad materials that are cut should be neat and sym- 
metrical in shape. 

(3) Meat, fish, etc., and most c5ooked vegetables, used in 
salads, should be well marinated and cold before mixing with 
crisp plants and sauce. 

(4) The ingredients composing the salad should not be 
combined until the last moment before serving. 

french dressing 

(for uncooked or cooked vegetables and for mari- 
nating COOKED SALAD MATERIALS) 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 6 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of fresh gXQiind 2 to 6 tablespoonfuls of lemon 
pepper. juice Or vinegar, 

A few grains of cayenne, paprika or black pepper. 

If desired — , 

A few drops of onion juice, or the salad bowl may be rubbed 
with a slice of onion, or clove or garlic. 

Mix the condiments^ — a little mustard is approved by some 
— add the oil and, when well mixed, add the acid, a few drops 
at a time, and beat until an emulsion is formed, then pour 
over the prepared materials and toss with the spoon and 
fork, until the dressing has been absorbed. No dressing 
should remain in the bottom of the bowl and the leaves or 
other materials should be glossy with oil; if they look dry, 
more dressing is needed. Claret vinegar is often used with 



354 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

lettuce salad., Recipes for mayonnaise and boiled dressings 
may be found on pages 237 and 239. 

The former although given first is not the best approved 
manner of dressing a salad with French dressing. Mix the 
pepper and salt, the pepper if possible should be ground at the 
moment (tiny china or wood spice mills may be bought for 
table use), then add the oil and when the salt is dissolved or 
taken up by the oil sprinkle this upon the prepared salad, 
then turn the leaves over and over as before and finish with 
the lemon juice or vinegar. Lemon juice which is a natural 
acid is "far and away" preferable to any variety of vinegar 
any one of which if not a "manufactured" product is at least 
a product of fermentation. The quantity of acid used depends 
upon the variety of salad and individual taste, but a salad is 
not intended for an acid dish. The acid flavor may be made 
more pronounced by adding the acid first (instead of the oil) 
with the condiments and the oil last. 

ENDIVE SALAD 

If the endive be wilted, revive by setting the stalk in water 
(avoid wetting the leaves). Use the well-blanched leaves 
only; wipe these with a damp cloth. Just before serving, 
dress with French dressing made with tarragon vinegar. 
Garnish with slices of radish and a whole radish cut to resemble 
a flower. Or use lemon juice and sprinkle with fine-chopped 
tarragon leaves. Serve with roast game. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Asparagus alone or in combination with lettuce or cooked 
vegetables is served with French, mayonnaise or boiled dress- 
ing. It is good with cooked chicken or egg and mayonnaise 
dressing. 

- " ASPARAGUS SALAD MOULDED IN ASPIC 

Put a little chicken aspic in a charlotte mould standing in 
Ice water; when set arrange upon it slices of hard-boiled egg 
and asparagus points. Dip cooked asparagus tips in aspic 
and press against the chilled sides of the mould; when firm 




ASPARAGUS SALAD MOULDED IN ASPIC JELLY. 
(See page 354.) 




EGG AND-TOMATO JELLY SALAD. (See page j6o.) 




SALMON SALAD. (See page 361.) 



TOMATO SALAD 35 S 

fill with alternate layers of asparagus, mixed with jelly mayon- 
naise and aspic jelly. Serve on a larger mould of the same 
with lettuce and mayonnaise. 

POTATO SALAD 

Dress one quart of cold, boiled potato balls, cut from raw 
potatoes, blanched and cooked until tender, in the order 
given, with half a teaspoonful of paprika, two teaspoonfuls of 
salt, six tablespoonfuls of oil, a tablespoonful of onion juice and 
six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, in which beets have been pickled ; 
toss the balls after the addition of each ingredient. Garnish 
with pickled beets. Serve in lettuce nests with cold meat. 

POTATO SALAD WITH FRENCH DRESSING 

Rub the inside of a salad bowl with a clove of garlic, cut in 
halves. Mix a quart of cold, boiled potatoes, cut in small 
cubes, with half a small onion, grated, and a tablespoonful of 
fine-cut parsley. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and five or 
six tablespoonfuls of oil, and toss until evenly mixed; then 
toss again with three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Let stand 
in a cool place a little time before serving. 

POTATO SALAD WITH BACON (HOT) 

Cut one-fourth a pound of tender sliced bacon into tiny 
bits, and fry until a very light brown. Take out the bits of 
bacon, and saut^ in the fat a small, delicately flavored onion, 
cut fine. Add half as much vinegar as fat, a very little salt, 
a few grains of cayenne, and half as much boiling water, < or 
meat broth, as vinegar. Have ready potatoes boiled, un- 
paredi until tender in salted water. Remove the skins and 
slice the hot potatoes in the frying-pan, enough only to take 
up the liquid, sprinkle in the bits of cooked bacon, toss to- 
gether and serve. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Plunge small tomatoes of similar size, in a wire basket, into 
boiling water. Remove at once, and cut out a circular piece 
around the stem of each. Remove the skins, and set aside 



3S6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

on ice to chill. When ready to serve, dispose each tomato 
on a lettuce leaf seasoned with French dressing. Fill each 
cavity with a spoonful of mayonnaise or boiled dressing, 
and press into the dressing quarters of hard-boiled eggs. 
Before setting aside to chill, tomatoes are usually dusted 
inside with salt, to draw out the liquid, hut the salt certainly 
toughens the tomato. 

TOMATO-AND-CUCUMBER SALAD 

Alternate slices of chilled tomato and cucumber, dressed 
with French dressing, along two sides of a salad bowl, with a 
line of heart leaves of lettuce between. Decorate the slices 
of tomato with stars of mayonnaise dressing. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 

Peel small tomatoes, and cut out the hard pieces around the 
stem ends, to make tomato cups. Sprinkle inside lightly 
with salt and pepper, and fill with equal portions of celery 
and walnuts, cut in pieces and mixed with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Serve on lettuce leaves, and garnish with curled celery 
(see page 35, Chapter IV). Pass mayonnaise on a separate 
dish. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Cream one-fourth a cup of butter, and beat into it the yolk, 
then the white, of an egg. Add, also, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of mustard, salt, 
and paprika. Then pour on very gradually, beating con- 
stantly, half a cup of hot vinegar. Cook over hot water, until 
the mixture thickens a little, — it should be like thick cream, — 
and let cool before stirring into a generous pint of flne-shredded 
cabbage, prepared for salad-. This makes an acid dressing, 

•CABBAGE SALAD, NO. 2 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, hajf a teaspoonful of mustard, 
mixed for the table, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of salt. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, then, gradually, five tablespoonfuls of hot 
vinegar. Stir and cook over hot water, until the mixture is 



FRENCH BEAN SALAD 357 

thick and smooth. Just before using, mix with crisp, fine- 
shredded cabbage. The centre of a handsome head of cabbage 
may be cut out and shredded and the shell thus formed used 
as a bowl from which the salad is served. The cabbage bowl 
may stand upon a hot napl<;in holding hot fried oysters. If 
the cabbage bowl be chilled, the heat of the napkin will not 
reach the salad. 

CUCUMBER SALAD FOR FISH COURSE 

With a handy slicer remove the outside rind from the cu- 
cumbers, cut in thin slices, and let stand in ice water to chill, 
retaining the slices in the order in which they were cut. Wipe 
dry, and arrange the slices in the salad bowl in the form of a 
Greek cross. Make a French dressing in the proportion of 
three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar to six tablespoonfuls 
of oil, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of paprika. Rub 
the inside of the salad bowl with the cut side of an onion, 
before the salad is disposed in it. 

APPLE-AND-CRESS SALAD (NORMANDY) 

Pare and cut four apples into short, match-shaped pieces. 
Dress with oil, vinegar or lemon juice, salt and paprika. 
Dress the leaves from a bunch of cress in the same manner. 
Dispose the apple in a serving dish, with the cress in a wreath 
around it. This salad will be found particularly appetizing 
to serve with game, domestic ducks, geese, and roast pork. 

FRENCH BEAN SALAD 

Use flageolets, the dried, green beans imported from France. 
These beans are also put up in glass bottles, but the dried are 
less expensive .and, probably, more wholesome. Soak in 
cold water several hours, then drain and set to cook in boiling 
salted water. When tender set aside to cool, then dress with 
French dressing made with onion juice. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. Garnish with stuffed olives. Lima beans are par- 
, ticularly good as a salad, so, also, are cold, Boston baked 
beans. Any one of these; after being dressed, may be 
sprinkled with fine-chopped parsley, olives, cucumber pickles, 
green or red peppers or chives. 



3S8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CRESS-AND-EGG SALAD 

Dress a bunch of cress with oil, vinegar, salt and .pepper. 
Cut the whites of two hard-boiled eggs into eighths, length- 
wise, and arrange them on the cress to simulate the petals of 
a flower. Press a star of mayonnaise dressing in the centre 
of the petals. Pass an egg yolk through a sieve and arrange 
around the dressing. Send to the table in this form, but toss 
together when serving. 

CAULIFLOWER AND BEET SALAD 

Dress flowerets of cold cooked cauliflower with oil, salt 
pepper, and vinegar or lemon juice. Dress the shredded out- 
side leaves of a head of lettuce, and a beet, cut in figures, and 
the chopped trimmings, each, separately, with the same 
ingredients. Dispose the lettuce in the centre of a serving- 
dish, and the carefully drained cauliflower above. Sprinkle 
with the figures cut from the beet, and dispose the chopped 
beet in points around the central mass. Serve mayonnaise 
in a dish apart. 

OKRA SALAD 

Select young and tender okra pods; wash clean, then boil 
until tender; drain and set aside to cool. Cut in slices one- 
fourth an inch in thickness. If at hand, rub over the inside 
of the salad bowl with the cut side of a clove of garlic, or put 
in the centre of the bowl a cube of bread, rubbed with the 
garlic. Add to the bowl the okra, a green sweet pepper, 
chopped fine, and a little fresh-grated horseradish. Sprinkle 
over a little salt, toss about to distribute the salt, then add 
olive oil, to coat the ingredients lightly; gently toss and mix, 
then add a little vinegar, tarragon preferred. Serve each 
portion on a heart leaf of tender lettuce. Slices of fresh to^ 
mato or cubes of tomato jelly are an effective garnish for an 
okra salad. 

CHEESE-AND-CELERY SALAD 

Cut blanched celery stalks into small pieces; add half the 
bulk of Edam cheese broken or cut into bits ; dress with French 




BIRD'S NEST SALAD. (See page 359.) 




CHICKEN SALAD IN SALAD ROLLS. (See page 351.) 




CRESS-AND-EGG SALAD. (See page t,$S.) 



A NEW SPINACH SALAD 359 

dressing; turn, into a salad-bowl, lined with heart leaves of 
lettuce. For a garnish, remove the centre frbm_ half a tomato, 
cut the edge in points to simulate the petals of a flower, and 
fill with two or three celery tips. Serve with bread-and- 
butter sandwiches. 

ENDIVE-AND-EGG SALAD 

Arrange a head of well washed and dried endive on a salad- 
dish with the blanched leaves in the centre. Dispose about 
the blanched heart four hard-boiled eggs, cut into lengthwise 
quarters. Mix half a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
paprika and six tablespoonfuls of oil. Stir in gradually 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Pour over the endive and 
egg. Toss together and serve. 

CELERY, ENGLISH WALNUT-AND-PIMENTO SALAD 

Add one-third a cup of, beaten cream to three-fourths a 
cup of mayonnaise, a cup and a half of sliced celery, three- 
fourths a cup of English walnuts, and two chopped pimentoes, 
after cutting from the latter some fanciful figures. Arrange 
in nests of lettuce, garnish each with one of the figures, a nut, 
and celery, and place celery tips between the nests. 
BIRD'S NEST SALAD 

Fashion small nests from cooked spinach, chopped and 
seasoned with salt, pepper, oil, and lemon juice. "When cold 
arrange in the nests eggs of Neufchatel cheese, flecked with 
paprika. Shape the eggs with the smooth sides of butter 
paddles. Fill in between the nests with dressed lettuce or 
blanched celery tips. Serve with brown bread-and-butter 
sandwiches. In serving the nests, use a broad-bladed silver 
knife. 

A NEW SPINACH SALAD QULIA D. CHANDLER, 
PHILADELPHIA) 

I Neufchatel cheese. Salad oil. 

4 hard boiled yolks of eggs. Salt. 

3-4 a cup of cooked spinach. Cayenne. 

Sift the yolks of egg and spinach separately; add oil, salt 
and cayenne, to taste, mix all thoroughly, and when well 



36o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

blended shape into balls. Serve on white leaves of lettuce 
with French, mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 

CRESS, CELERY-AND-WALNUT SALAD 

Arrange a wreath of water-cress upon a serving-dish. 
Inside this place some fine-cut celery, and in the centre pile 
some meats of English walnuts, sliced thin. Garnish with 
sprays of curled celery. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, mix 
thoroughly and dress with oil; then mix again, adding half 
as much vinegar as oil; mix once more and Serve. 

EGG-AND-TOMATO-JELLY SALAD 

Cook a pint of tomatoes, a bay leaf, a slice of onion, and a 
stalk of celery fifteen minutes; add one-fourth a package of 
gelatine softened in one-fourth a cup of cold water, then strain. 
Chill four cups. Press half a cooked egg, dipped in liquid 
gelatine, against the side of each cup; when set fill with the 
jelly. Unmould on shredded lettuce, dressed with French 
dressing. Serve with mayonnaise. 

TOMATO JELLY WITH NUT SALAD 

Prepare a tomato jelly as above, adding, if convenient, half 
a cup of mushroom trimmings or a tablespoonful of mushroom 
catsup. Turn into a round border mould. When cold and- 
turned from the mould, fill the open centre with shredded cab- 
bage, pecan nuts, and a sweet red pepper, cooked and sliced, 
mixed with mayonnaise or a boiled dressing. 

CELERY JELLY 

Let a cup of celery stalks simmer in three cups of chicken 
broth or water with a slice of onion, a few slices of carrot, 
and a sprig of parsley; strain and season with salt and pepper. 
To a pint of liquid add one-fourth a package of gelatine, 
softened in one-fourth a cup of cold water, and strain again. 
Tint a delicate green if wished. Mould in a ring mould ; fill 
the centre with cubes of chicken and English walnuts, broken 
in pieces and dressed with mayonnaise dressing. Surround 
with heart leaves of lettuce, first dipped in French dressing. 



SALMON SALAD 361 

Chestnuts, roasted or boiled, cut in pieces and mixed with 
mayonnaise, ate particularly good with celery jelly. The 
jelly is usually made from the coarse outer stalks. But the 
less fibrous, inner stalks may be used, and the pieces served 
in the jelly; introduce these as pieces of fruifin a fruit jelly 
(see page 507). 

CHICKEN SALAD IN SALAD ROLLS 

Use by measure twice as much chicken as celery — cut the 
chicken in small cubes — do not chop it — and marinate with 
French dressing. When ready to serve drain, add the celery, 
and mix with mayonnaise dressing. If boiled dressing be 
used, marinate the chicken with part of that, adding more 
with the celery when ready to serve. 

SHRIMP-AND-CUCUMBER SALAD 

Break the shrimps in pieces and marinate with French 
dressing. At serving time, add an equal quantity of chilled 
cubes of cucumber; mix with mayonnaise dressing. Shape 
into a mound and cover lightly with whole shrimps and the 
heart leaves of lettuce. Surround with sliced cucumbers^ 
dressed with French dressing flavored with onion juice. 

SWEETBREAD, CUCUMBER-AND-TOMATO SALAD 

Marinate a pair of cooked sweetbreads with French dressing; 
chill, drain, and mix with sliced cucumbers and mayonnaise 
dressing, whitened with whipped cream. Arrange in a salad- 
dish. Surround with slices of chilled tomato in nests of lettuce 
with French dressing. On the tomato dispose slices of sweet- 
bread, capped with stars of mayonnaise. 

SALMON SALAD 

Let two slices of boiled salmon cool in the liquid in which 
it was cooked; remove the skin and bones and marinate with 
oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper. When ready to serve, 
drain and dispose on lettuce, cut in ribbons and' dressed with 
French dressing. Surround with a circle of sliced cucumbers. 
Serve with mayonnaise or a cold Bernaise sauce. Sauce Tar- 
tare is also good. 



362 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



SCALLOP SALAD 

Soak the scallops in salted water; let simmer five minutes 
in boiling water; drain, cool, cut in slices and marinate with 
French dressing. At serving, drain and mix with an equal 
bulk of celery; dress with mayonnaise; shape in a mound. 
Mask with mayonnaise. Outline designs on the side of the 
mound with capers; fill the designs with chopped white of 
egg and figures cut from beets. 

OYSTER SALAD IN ICE BOWL 

Freeze three-fourths an inch of water in a large charlotte 
russe mould. Weight a smaller mould and set upon the centre 
of the ice. Fill the outer mould with water and let freeze. 
Fill the small mould with warm water and lift it out. Line 
the open space (the ice bowl) with lettuce. Fill with layers 
of "plumped," or scalded and chilled, oysters, marinated 
with French dressing and dressed celery or cabbage. In 
serving the salad, do not disturb the lettuce lining. Serve 
mayonnaise in a bowl apart, or use this for dressing the oysters 
before putting them in place. 

SHAD ROE-AND-CUCUMBER SALAD 

Gently simmer a shad roe with onion and bay leaf in salted 
acidulated water twenty minutes ; cool, cut in slices and cubes 
and marinate with French dressing made with onion juice ; to 
the cubes of roe add a cucumber, cut in cubes, and mayonnaise 
to moisten. Dispose the salad upon a bed of heart leaves of 
lettuce. Garnish the long sides with sliced cucumber and the 
top with sliced roe and chillies. 

ORANGE AND ENGLISH- WALNUT SALAD 

Slice four peeled oranges lengthwise, dress with three or 
four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Arrange the slices in a mound upon a layer of lettuce 
leaves. Dress one cup of sliced nut meats with one table- 
spoonful of oil, a dash of salt, and half a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice and dispose upon the centre of the mound.i Toss 
together before serving. 




OYSTER SALAD IN ICE BOWL. 
Garnish of pitn-olas. (See page 362.) 



SHAD ROE-AND-CUCUMBER SALAD. (See page 362.) 





SCALLOP SALAD. 
Garnish o£ celery leaves and curled celery. (See pages 35 and 362.) 



CELERY, APPLE-AND-GREEN-PEPPER SALAD 363 



CELERY-AND-ORANGE SALAD 

Clean a bunch of celery ; fringe a dozen two-inch pieces and 
make all crisp in cold water, to which lemon slices have been 
added. Wipe the stalks dry, then cut into bits and dress 
with French dressing. Turn on to a serving-dish. Garnish 
with slices of so^ir orange, cut lengthwise of the orange, then 
in halves lengthwise, and the curled celery. Serve with roast 
duck. 

CELERY, APPLE-AND-PISTACHIO SALAD 

Let apple and celery, cut Julienne fashion and sprinkled 
with lemon juice, stand until chilled. Mix with mayonnaise 
dressing, to which one-fourth a cup of blanched and pounded 
pistachio nuts has been added. Garnish with lettuce and 
rings of apple sprinkled with lemon juice, to keep them white; 
decorate with stars of mayonnaise and halved pistachio nuts. 
For the "rings,' ' cut cored apples in slices. 

PINEAPPLE, SWEETBREAD-AND-PIMENTO SALAD 

Mix cubes of sweetbread, pineapple, shapes cut from pimen- 
toes and bits of celery with mayonnaise dressing mixed with 
whipped cream. Shape in a mound and cover with dressing. 
Decorate with figures, cut from pimentoes and surround with 
lettuce. At each comer dispose a pimento, slashed on the 
edge, with strips of pineapple in the centre, to simulate a 
bright red flower. 

CELERY, APPLE-AND-GREEN-PEPPER SALAD 

Crisp the stalks of celery by letting them stand in very cold 
water with a slice or two of lemon half an hour. Cut the 
stalks into bits, pare and cut the apples into slices, and the 
slices into cubes, or other small shapes. Sprinkle with lemon 
juice, to avoid discoloring, and also to flavor. Scald the 
pepper, from which the seeds and veins have been removed, 
and cut into fine shreds. Mix equal portions of apple and 
celery with such quantity of pepper as is desired. Also, 
English walnuts, pecan nuts, or blanched almonds, cut in small 



364 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pieces, may be added. Mix with mayonnaise dressing, 
whitened with whipped cream, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

GRAPE, ORANGE-AND-NUT SALAD 

Remove the skins from California grapes, — white ones pre- 
ferred, — cut in halves, and remove seeds. Blanch an equal 
quantity of English walnuts or pecan nuts, and break in 
pieces. Remove peel from several oranges, and cut in length- 
wise slices. Dress each, separately, with oil and a little lemon 
juice. Mix and serve on heart leaves of lettuce. Pistachio 
nuts, cut in slices, in place of the almonds, and a garnish of 
mayonnaise make a handsomer, but more expensive, dish. 

BANANA AND PIMENTO SALAD 

Sprinkle sliced bananas with lemon juice, to avoid discolor- 
ing. Dispose on lettuce leaves, and sprinkle with strips of 
pimento. Garnish with mayonnaise whitened with whipped 
cream. 

COLLEGE SALAD (MARIA W. HOWARD, BOSTON) 

I cup of Young America cheese. 3 pimentoes cut in pieces. 
3 Neuchitel cheeses. Salt and Paprika. 

10 olives cut in small pieces. Cream. 

Mix the cheese, olives, and pimentoes. Season with salt 
and paprika, moisten with cream, shape with butter pats, 
arrange on lettuce leaves and marinate with a French dressing. 
Garnish with pimentoes cut in strips and horseradish dressing. 

HORSERADISH DRESSING 

Mix four tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, one table- 
spoonful, each, of temon juice and vinegat, and three table- 
spoonfuls of beaten cream. Season with salt and paprika. 

DUCK SALAD 

Cut the meat from a cold duck into thin strips or into cubes, 
marinate with salt and pepper and three portions of oil to two 
of sour orange juice. After standing some hours, drain and 
mix with half the quantity, each, of ofange catpels, freed from 
seeds and membrane, and bits of celery. Garnish with mayon- 




CABBAGE SALAD No. 2. (See page 356.) 




CELERY AN'D ORANGE SALAD. (See pages .^.5 and 363^) 




ENDIVE SALAD. (See page 354) 



RELISHES AND HORS D'CEUVRES 365 

naise and half slices of orange, from which the peeling has not 
been removed. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Marinate the meat of a lobster with French dressing, after 
cutting it in cubes; drain and add two or more hard-boiled 
eggs, chopped. Dispose in a mound on a bed of lettuce leaves, 
letting the leaves come out beyond the lobster. Surround 
the lobster with slices of tomato, one overlapping another, 
each piece holding a spoonful of mayonnaise dressing; sprinkle 
the whole with fine-chopped green peppers. 

RELISHES AND HORS D'CEUVRES 

From time out of mind, as the prelude to an elaborate 
English or American dinner, raw oysters with brown bread 
and butter have been served, though conservatively inclined 
entertainers, were agreed that, at the best appointed tables, 
the perfect dinner begins with soup. 

Raw oysters on the half-shell were the opening wedge to 
innovation; and now, even on very formal occasions, the 
standard Italian custom— once considered so very Bohemian 
— of prefacing the meal with little "kickshaws," carefully 
prepared and served, has obtained. In Russia these relishes, 
or hors d'oeuvres, that serve to whet the appetite for the 
more substantial dishes that are to follow, form quite a meal 
in themselves. Also, the Italian- service is quite elaborate; 
dishes, divided into compartments, are provided ; and in the 
several eompartnaents are tastefully arranged thin slices of 
tongue, sausage, or ham, potted or devilled meats, caviare, 
turned from its receptacle and garnished with slices of lemon, 
fillets of sardine or anchovies, lobster, oysters, chickens' 
livers, pickles, cucumbers, olives, radishes, bread-and-butter 
sandwiches, oat biscuit, etc. The respective compartments of 
the dish are appropriately garnished with celery plumes, 
parsley, cress, pepper-grass, aspic jelly, etc. 

On formal occasions, perhaps the most satisfactory way of 
dealing with this feature of the meal is to place upon the plate 
of each guest just before the dinner is announced a single 



366 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cold canapd. For the foundation of these, thin slices of stale 
brown or white bread, prepared as for sandwiches, are 
needed. The pieces of bread should not be more than two 
inches long and an inch and a half wide. First spread them 
with butter. Then press upon the butter, using either plain 
or fancy butter, such bits of material as it is desired to use, 
taking care to secure proper combinations in flavor and color. 
Similar canapfe may be served at the close of the dinner 
with the cheese, though at this stage of the meal pulled bread, 
devilled biscuit, etc., with a bit of celery, an olive, and a tiny 
cube of choice cheese, are in place. 

The fancy butters are easily made, and a new kind may be 
presented on each occasion. The best of butter is, of course, 
a first requisite. This is creamed a little ; then sifted material 
is added to secure such tint and flavor as is desired, cress, 
olives, capers, cooked spinach, chopped pounded, and sifted, 
give a green tinge to butter. Either fish or flesh may be used 
as the canopy or covering. Anchovies may be added to green 
butter to produce anchovy butter, while lobster coral alone 
'gives a reddish color to butter. Cooked yolks of eggs, sharp- 
ened with capers, are added with advantage to almost any 
fancy butter. When pastes, as of ham, sardine, etc., are used, 
a forcing-bag and tube is called into requisition to place them 
neatly upon the bread. Hot savories or hors d'oeuvres may be 
substituted for the cold, either at the beginning or at the end 
of the meal. These include savory souffle of fish or cheese, 
or of highly seasoned ragout mixtures, also various kinds of 
cheese mixtures, Gnocchi, rarebits, etc. All are served in 
tiny paper or pastry cases, or in very small individual portions. 
In all savories, whether hot or cold, three things are essential: 
smallness in size, neatness and daintiness in appearance, and 
piquancy in flavor. 

OYSTERS AND CLAMS 

Raw oysters and clams are served on the deep half of the 
shell; these rest on plates of broken ice, or on a bed of ice on 
oyster plates devised for the purpose. A lengthwise quarter 
or a slice of lemon is served on each plate ; salt, cayenne pepper 
or paprika and brown-bread sandwiches are passed at the same 




CREAMED OYSTERS AU GRATIN IN GREEN PEPPERS. 




LOBSTER SANDWICHES (See page 372-) 




MATERIALS FOR HORS D'OEUVRES. 
Sardines, olives, anchovies, cheese, pate de foie gras, caviare, 
mustard, celery, etc. 



CANAPES. INDIAN STYLE 367 

time. Sometimes a thin slice of cucumber, dipped in French 
dressing, is put between the bread. 

OYSTER-AND-CLAM COCKTAILS 

Oyster and clam cocktails are served from small glasses, or 
frcvi tomatoes, skinned, with centres scooped out to form cups. 
Oysters are also served hot, in scallop or silver shells, or in 
cocottes or souffle dishes; five or six oysters constitute the 
service. The oysters are seasoned, bits of butter are added 
and the dish is set into the oven long enough to plump the 
oysters. Surround with tiny sippets of toast. Serve lemon, 
slice or quarter, on each plate. 

OLIVES 

Olives, served as a relish or hors d'oeuvre, should be very 
cold; if convenient, they may be arranged on a bed of ice. 

STUFFED OLIVES WITH PUREE 

Have ready round croutons of cold bread ; spread these with 
pdt^ de foie gras, anchovy paste, or with ham, chicken liver, 
or smoked tongue made into a pur^e. In the centre of the 
crouton place a pimola (olive stuffed with sweet peppers) 
and pipe sifted yolk of egg, fine chopped white, fine-chopped 
aspic or mayonnaise dressing around it. If pimolas are not 
at hand, use olives ; cut off a thin slice from the broad end of 
the olive, that it may stand level ; then with a sharp knife peel 
the olive round and round in a spiral, keeping close to the 
stone; press the olive back in shape, and fill the cavity left 
by the stone with anchovy paste or fillets, pieces of pimento, 
capers, etc., etc. : finish as before. 

CANAPES, INDIAN STYLE 

1-4 a cup of cooked ham. i tablespoonful of chutney. 

1-4 a cup of cooked chicken. 1-2 a teaspoonful of curry powder. 

I -4 a cup of butter. Salt and pepper as needed. 

Potmd the ingredients in a mortar; pass through a sieve 
and spread or rounds, diamonds or crescents of bread, fried 



368 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and cooled. Decorate with fine-chopped white and yolk of 

egg- 

LOBSTER CANAPES 

Cut out diamonds, hearts, or rounds of bread one-fourth an 
inch thick and two inches in diameter. Spread with butter, 
and brown in the oven. When cold, spread with a layer of 
"green butter." Upon this spread smoothly a layer of lob- 
ster meat, pounded in a mortar with butter, pressed througt 
a sieve, and seasoned with a little paprika. Above this place 
a heart leaf of lettuce; above this, a thin Slice of beet- 
root, shaped with a cutter. Set on the serving-dish, and 
force a star of mayonnaise upon the centre of the beet-root. 
Thoroughly chill before serving. For the "green butter": 
to a quarter a pound of creamed butter add gradually the pulp 
of six boned anchovies, a tablespoonful of fine-chopped pars- 
ley, two tablespoonfuls of fine-chopped capers, and spinach 
pur^e to tint. 

LOBSTER CANAPES, NO. 2 

Cut, fry, and cool the bread as usual; spread the bread 
with lobster butter; in the centre of each croustade press a 
large scallop, cut from the meat of the lobster tail, previously 
marinated for an hour or more in oil, lemon juice and paprika. 
Garnish the edge of the canap^ with capers or fine-chopped 
gherkin or parsley. 

ANCHOVY PUREE 

4 boned anchovies. 1-4 a cup of butter. 

2 hard boiled yolks of egg. A dash of paprika. 

Pound the above ingredients together in a mortar until 
smooth; then pass through a pur^e sieve. 

ANCHOVY CROUSTADES 

Have ready rounds of bread, fried and cooled; spread these 
with anchovy pur^e and curl upon each an anchovy, drained 
from oil arid wiped dry; fill in the centre with sifted yolk of 
egg, and with a bag and very small star tube pipe stars of 
anchovy pur^e around the edge of the bread. If the anchovies 



CAVIARE CROUSTADES 369 

can be separated easily into lengthwise fiUets, use a, single 
fillet for each croustade. 

SARDIN3B; CANAPES 

Drain the sardines and wipe them with a cloth, tp free theni 
from the oil of the can ; pick ofE the skin and divide into fillets 
if possible. Slice a mild onion, put a layer into a dish long 
enough to take the fillets, lay the fillets on the onion, alternat- 
ing the layers, and pour over the fillets a marinade of one 
part vinegar to four of oil; let stand several hours. When 
ready to serve drain and dispose the fillets on bits of bread 
^a little longer and wider than the fillets), spread with butter 
ereanied with a little fine-chopped parsley. Push a tiny heart, 
leaf of lettuce, or sprig of watercress, under the ends of each 
fillet. 

SARDINE CANAPES, NO. 2 

Substitute gardioes, freed frgra skin and bone, for the 
anchovigs in anqhovy pur^e; spread the sardine pur^.e upon 
rounds pf bread, fried and Qooledi pipe with the pur^e SQ as 
to divide into quarters; fill two pf these with chopped white 
pf egg and two with sifted yplk of egg> or use chopped gherkin, 
pliyes, or pisklgd b^et with either whites or yqlkSi chopped 
fine, 

QAVXARE IN gWEpXSH TIMBALB CASES (HOTEL 

MONTHLY) * 

Prepare tiny Swedish timbale cages, not more than half 
an inch deep, and fill these with caviare; above the caviare 
plaee a, frgghly opened oyster and two tiny stalks' of cress. 
Pasg legipn slioes at the same time. 

CAVIARE WITH EGGS AJSTP CUCUMBERS 

Butter rouads of Boston brown bread, press upon these 
rings of cold boiled egg-white, fill the rings with caviare, and 
place sliceg of cucunjtier, dressed with French dressing, above, 

CAVIARE CROUSTADES 

Add a few drops of lemon juice to the caviare, and mix 
and spread upon cold crpustades of bread. Decorate the 



370 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

edges with fine-chopped cucumber pickles, olives, and sweet 
peppers mixed together. 

PATE-DE-FOIE-GRAS 

P^t^-de-foie-gras is used to spread sandwiches or other hors 
d'oeuvres, though thus used the aroma of the p^t^ is liable to 
evaporate before the moment of eating. Cut into small 
cubes, the p^t^ is an addition to dishes served hot in casseroles 
or in purees of chicken, etc., that are steamed or poached in 
timbale or border moulds. The cubes would be crushed, if 
they were stirred into the mixture. As the preparation is 
put in with spoon or pastry-bag, arrange the cubes here and 
there. 

PATE-DE-FOIE-GRAS CROUSTADES 

Pound to a paste two freshly boiled fowls' livers; the livers 
of chicken or turkey will answer, but those of a goose or a 
brace of duck are better, while the .equivalent of p^t^-de- 
foie-gras is best of all. Add two tablespoonfuls of creamed 
butter and a little paprika or cayenne, pass through a sieve 
and heat over water, then spread on the rounds of hot fried 
bread, piping a design above. Or stir the liver pur^e, mixed 
with the beaten yolks of two eggs, into a cup of scalded cream ; 
stir until the mixture thickens, adding salt and pepper mean- 
wHile, then pile on the rounds of fried bread. 

SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches for service as hors d'oeuvres, either as a preface 
to a meal or with the salad, are much smaller than those 
prepared for other service, but, for all home purposes, let the 
sandwiches be small. They are best when prepared just 
before serving, but for the lunch or picnic basket they may 
be kept wrapped in confectioners' or paraffine paper. For 
large companies, wrap the sandwiches in a damp cloth, wrung 
as dry as possible, then surround with a dry cloth; or cover 
the sandwiches, neatly piled, with a large earthen bowl. Cer- 
tain sandwiches are better adapted to certain occasions than 
are others. The rules for salads hold good at all times and 



SARDINE SANDWICHES 371 

salad sandwiches at club luncheons, where the sandwiches, 
even if prepared at a grand hotel, must of necessity stand 
several hours before serving, should be gracefully declined 
by those who have regard for their stomachs. The "much- 
worked " lettuce-salad sandwich is the worst of the lot. Any 
variety of bread twenty-four hours old is admissible. Some- 
times two varieties are combined in the same sandwich. Let 
the bread, freed from crust, be cut into slices about one-eighth 
an inch thick, then cut into strips or triangles, or stamp out 
into fanciful shapes. Use the trimmings for bread sauce, 
puddings, or bread-crumbing. Cream the butter to insure 
its spreading smoothly and evenly. Avoid spreading either 
the butter or filling over the edge. When slices of meat are 
used, let them be cut as thin as a wafer, and use more than one 
in each sandwich. Fancy butters are recommended when 
sliced meat is used. For fillings of meat or fish purees, pound- 
ing the same in a mortar to a paste is of advantage ; the addi- 
tion of butter, cream or sauce of some variety gives a proper 
consistency for spreading. Salted meats and fish give sand- 
wiches of pronounced flavor — acid in the form of lemon juice, 
chopped pickles or capers is an improvement to these and all 
fish sandwich mixtures. Pastes of fresh fish or meat will bear 
quite high seasoning. Nut pastes, or pounded and sliced 
nuts and cheese give pleasing fillings. 

Sweet sandwiches are offered with cocoa or tea; bread or 
lady-fingers, yellow or white, may be used as the foundation 
of these; jams, jellies, marmalades, preserved ginger, etc., are 
the usual fillings. 

For five o'clock tea, sandwiches, spread with flower-flavored 
butter, are considered quite esthetic. The butter is kept over 
night, or for some hours, between layers of fresh violets or 
rose petals in a closely closed receptacle. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Remove the skin and bones from six sardines; pound in a 
mortar with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and three table-, 
spoonfuls of butter; season to taste with paprika and lemon 
juice, and pass through a fine sieve. Spread- crescent, or 



372 PRACTICAL COpKING AND SERVING 

other shapeci pieces of bread, with the paste, and preps to- 
gether in pairs. S§rve on a napkin; ornament the dish 
with cress and slices of lemon. Or, substitute IJoHandaise 
sauce for the by.tter and lemon juiqe. 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES 

Chop fine the meat pf the lobster; add the soft part§, season 
with tabasco sauce, lemon juice and oil, and spread upon 
lightly buttered bread, cut for sandwiches. Press two 
corresponding pieces together. Serve around a- support 
fashioned from bread, fastened tP the plate with white of egg 
or gelatine and holding the large claws pf the Ipbster and 
heart lettuce leaves. 

EGG-AND-CRESS SANDWICHES 

Cut stale bread into quarter-inch slices, and with tin cutters 
stamp out into diamonds, hearts or .other fanciful-ghaped 
pieces. Mix together sifted yolk of egg, cress leaves and 
mayonnaise dressing. Spread this mixture upon the bread, 
press two similar-shaped pieces together and serve aroijnd 
a bunch of cress. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, cut in quar- 
ters. 

pjcK^^ED tpngue;.and-Rye5-bread sandwiches 

Pound the tongue (lambs' tongues are gopd) very fine in a 
mortar; pound at the same time a pimento or two or a table- 
spoonful of capers and a little butter or Bechamel sauce; 
pass through a sieve and finish as any sandwiches. 

HAUrMiJir.p,QQ gANPWICHlS 

Pound together in a mortar half a cup of lean, cooked ham 
and two tablespponfuls of fat ham, chopped fine, one-third a 
cup of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of cold Bechamel or 
white sauce. Pass through a sieve. Add the sifted yolks 
of four cooked eggs, half a teaspoonful of mustard, prepared 
with tarragon vinegar, a generous teaspeonful of fine-chopped 
capers, and, if desired, a few drops of onion juice. Anchovies, 
though often used in these sandwiches, should be restricted 
to those prepared of fish- Spread upon buttered bread pre^ 



CDfTAOE CHEESfe-AND^CRESS SANDWICHES 373 

pared fot sandwiches, and press two pieces together. Sefve 
without delay. 

CMICK&N SANDWICHES 

Pound the chopped chicken t0 a paste with a little chopped 
parsley and cooked yolk of egg. Season with celery-salt, 
a very few drops of onion juice, or "kitchen boUquet''; ffldke 
more moist with butter, cold poulette, or HoUandaise sauce. 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

Scrape the tender portion of raw beef from the fibres, after 
cutting the beef Into thin slices, sctape from otie side and then 
from the other. Often, these sandwiches are heated over 
the Coals in a bfoilef . Season with sa.lt only, if for an invalid. 
Celery-salt, tabasco sauce or pepper are palatable When 
allowable. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

I cup of grated cheese. A few grains of cayenne. 

I teaspoonful of butter. The yolks of two raw eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. i cup of thin cream. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of mustard. Salt as needed. 

Melt the butter, add the cheese and seasoning, and stir 
until the cheese is melted and smooth) then stir in the yolks 
of the eggs, beaten and diluted with the cream. Use when 
cold. Milk or tomatd pur^e may take the place of the cream. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICHES 

Spread thin slices of Boston brown bread, stamped out in 
oval shape and lightly buttered, with Neufchatel, or any 
cream cheese. Spread, also, an equal number of slices, 
stamped out and buttered, with fine-chopped olives and 
pimentoes mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Press together 
in pairs with a crisp heart leaf of lettuce between each pair. 
Serve while the lettuce is fresh. 

COTTAGE CHEESE-AND-CRESS SANDWICHES 

Chop the cress very fine, using only tender leaves; mix 



374 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING " 

with the cheese, season with salt and paprika and use in the 
usual manner. 

CHEESE-AND-SALTED NUT SANDWICHES 

Mix grated Edam cheese or other cheese with butter enough 
to form a paste; season with pepper and add salted nuts 
sliced thin, not chopped. 

NORWEGIAN SANDWICHES 

1-2 a cup of Mayonnaise dressing. 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste. 
3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Rye bread. 

Mix the chopped eggs with the paste and gradually beat the 
dressing into the mixture. Use as a filling for rye bread, cut 
for sandwiches. Norwegian sandwiches are usually made 
with but one piece of bread. 



CHAPTER XIII 
Cheese and What Can Be Done with It 

"Some cheeses are made o' skimmed milk and some o' new milk, 
and it's no matter what you call 'em, you can tell which is which by 
the look and the smell. " — George Eliot. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF CHEESE 

Carbo- 
Water Protein Fat hydrates Ash Fuel val 

Per Per Per Per Pei- per lb. 

Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. (Silories 

Cheese, American, 

pale, as purchased. .. 3 1 . 6 28.8 35.9 .3 3.4 2.055 

Lactic 
Acid 

Cheese, Cottage 72.0 20.9 1,0 4.3 i 8 510 

Cheese, Neufchatel, 

average 50.0 18.7 27.4 1.5 2.4 1.530 

Cheese, Pineapple, 

average 23.0 29.9 38.9 2.6 5.6 2-245 

Cheese, Swiss, 

average 3i-4 27-6 34.9 1.3 4.8 2.010 

The manufacture of cheese is one of those provident pro- 
cesses instinctive in all mankind, by which food, in time of 
plenty, is transformed into a state suitable for keeping until 
a time of need. The preservation of the most valuable con- 
stituents of milk becomes possible on account of the coagulat- 
ing property of albumen, in this case in the form of casein. 
More or less of fat is also entangled in the curd during its 
coagulation; the larger the quantity of fat the softer and 
more easily broken up is the cheese during digestion. 

In cheese, then, we have a compact and concentrated nitro- 
genous food, corresponding to eggs, meat, and fish, but unlike 
meat and fish, in that it is without waste matter. The food 
value of cheese is diminished by the very fact of its compaet- 

375 



376 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ness, which renders it difficult of solution. The tiny bit of 
cheese eaten at the close of a hearty dinner, as a so-called aid 
to digestion, calls for strong digestive power, and the increased 
effort of the digestive organs put forth to take care of this, 
will often digest the dinner, and then fail to digest the cheese 
itself; this may have given rise to the old couplet: 
"Oh, cheese it is a surly elf, 
pigesting all things but itself." 

On account of its high food value cheese deserves nlore 
attention than it ordinarily receives in thg cuisitlfei It is hot 
adapted to children's needs, nor should it find a plate, 
in a raw state, to any great extent in the dietary of sedentary 
people. Yet, fiiifely divided, separated with other ingredients 
and Bubjfefcted in cooking to gentle heat, it is readily digested 
and assimilated by many. Its proper place in the dietary 
is not in conjunction with meatj but with vegetables arid 
grains. These supply the diluting and waste elements lacking 
in cheese, and are in turn enriched by the nitrogenous element 
of the cheese, in which they are deficient. In the -preparatiSil 
of these dishes, emphasis must be laid on the thorough Cooking 
of the vegetable or grain before the addition of the cheese ; 
for hothihg is eatSn that can dkceed in indigestibiljty cheese 
cooked at a high temperature. 

The making of cheese was One of the first industries 
attempted by the early settlers of this country; Early in the 
seventeenth G0nturyi Cheshire cheese, made from a recipe 
brought from England, was sent from Narragartsett to England 
and the fiarbadoes in large c[uantities: At the present titne 
nearly all foreign makes of cheese are succesBftllly imitated oil 
this side of the Atlantic^ Rocquefort is an exception. A 
place possessing the propel- conditions for ripening this cheesfe 
has not yet been found) in this courltry. 

Parmesan cheese is used quite generally in cookery; being 
very hard it is serviceable only when grated. It may be boUght 
in bulk; sawed from the whole cheese; In this condition it 
will keep in a cool place almdst indefinitely.' It can also 
be bought, grated teady for use and put up in sealed bottles. 
Unless the entire contents of a bottle a:e to be used soon 



COTTACJS dHfiESfl 377 

aftei' opening the same, this is hot an eeotlomical prqcedtire, 
aS thfe grated cheSSe moulds very quickly upon exposure to 
the air: 

SEifeVlCl^ Otf CHEESE 

Cheese is usually served 'as a part of the dessert, or it may 
be placed before the dessert with the salad, when the salad 
does liot accompany the gaiiie or roasts A bit of brown bread 
or a hard cracker with butter are passed at the sahie time. 
The French custom of diiiitting the sweets atid ending the 
meal With salad and Cheese has obtaihed tb considerable ex- 
tent in this country. Iil aeco,t-d with this is the eusteiri of 
passing, in plade of a sweet, Camembeft or Neufchatel cheese 
either Whole witp. a cheese knife, Or cut in small cubes and 
disposed upon a handled cheefee plate, covered With Idee paper 
and acGoinpanied by a cheese fork, and a tiily jar of Bar-le- 
due (a cUfrant preserve made in slich a manner that the 
seeded currants tetain their shape). Lemon cheese-cakes 
are often substituted for the r aW cheese; 

Sttiall cheesBi like Edatn and pineapple^ are prepared for 
serving by sawing off the top or cutting with a " butter tester " 
which leaves a scalloped edge. The cheese is then set in a 
silver cheese-holder, of Wrapped ifl a folded napkin, on a plate. 
A cheese scoop is needed for the service. For occasional ser- 
vice, pieces may be scooped out from a fresh cheese and piled 
on a plate covered with laee papef. A Stilton or Chester 
cheese. Cut in halves, is serVed surrouiided by a folded napkin. 
Young America and pineapple are identical in manufacture, 
but differ in shape. American dairy cheese is usually cut in 
stiiall uniform pieces and served upon a Mce-paper covered 
plate. Celery is a favorite accompaniment of cheese when a 
salad is wanting. 

CbTtAGE CHEESE 

Let fresh milk stand in a temperature of iao° Fahr. ifOiti 
one to three days, or until the curd separates from the whey. 
Turn the curd into a coarse cotton bag. and let hang iil a 
GDol, dry place about tWenty-fbUf houfsj at uiitil the curd iB 
free from whey. Add salt and sweet creahi, tO taStfej aiid 



378 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

shape into small balls. In winter the process may be hastened 
by heating thick, sour or "clabbered" milk over hot water, 
but, if the water be too hot, a tough cheese results. The 
cheese is most rich and creamy, when the separation takes 
place at a low temperature, that is at about ioo° Fahr. 

CHEESE CAKES 

1 1-2 cups of cottage, cream or The grated rind and juice of i 

Neufchatel cheese. lemon. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 1-2 a cup of currants and citron. 
I tablespoonful of melted butter. 1-4 a cup of sherry wine. 

Press the cheese through a colander or potato ricer and add 

the sugar, cream, melted butter, the juice and rind of the 

lemon, the eggs beaten light, the wine, and the fruit cut in 

small pieces. Line small tins with pastry, fill with the cheese 

mixture and bake about fifteen minutes, or until the pastry 

is baked; sprinkle with powdered sugar. Serve when partly 

cooled. The currants and citron may be omitted and the 

cakes served with bar-le-duc, or other choice preserve. They 

are also good with stewed prunes — sliced and sugared oranges, 

etc. 

CHEESE CREAM 

The yolks of 3 eggs. 1-2 a cup or more of grated cheese, 
1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. Parmesan prefered. 

1-4 a teaspoonful 6f paprika. i level teaspoonful of gelatine. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of mustard. 4 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

I cup of scalded miilk. i cup of double cream. 

Mix the salt, pepper, and mustard with the beaten eggs 
and pour on slowly the hot milk; retutnito the fire and cook 
as a "boiled" custard; add the softened gelatine and strain 
over the cheese ; stir over hot water, until the cheese is melted, 
then stir in ice water, until the mixture begins to stiffen ; fold 
in the cream beaten solid, and set aside in a mould to become 
firm. When ready to serve, cut in slices and stamp out figures 
with fanciful-shaped cutters. Serve on rounds of brown or 
graham bread; sprinkle the top with paprika. Use also in 
making hors d'ceuvre. 



BREAD-AND-CHEESE CROUTONS 379 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE MOULDED WITH NUTS 

Beat sifted Neufchatel, cream or cottage cheese (one cup) 
a tablespoonful of melted butter, one-fourth a cup of sweet 
cream, a dash of red pepper, and a cup of blanched and chopped 
English walnuts, pecan nuts, chopped olives or pinientoes 
until well mixed. Use a piece of confectioner's paper, to 
handle and press the mixture into an oblong shape. Serve 
with vegetable salad — celery, tomato or lettuce preferred — 
and crackers. One-fourth a cup of tiny, green string-beans, 
a pimento and five olives, the beans and the pimento cut in 
tiny cubes and the olives chopped, are particularly good com- 
bined with cheese. Serve with lettuce dressed with French 
dressing. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-2 a cup of tomato pur6e. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i cup, or 4 ounces of grated cheese. 

1-4 a teaspoonful, each, of salt, 3 eggs 
soda and paprika. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, soda, seasoning, and pur^e ; 
let boil five minutes, then add the grated cheese and the yolks 
of the eggs, and lastly fold in the whites of the eggs beaten 
dry. Bake in a buttered soufifl^ dish until well puffed and 
delicately colored, abotit twenty-five minutes. Let the dish 
stand in hot water. Serve as soon as removed from the oven. 
This dish is more conveniently served, when it is baked in in- 
dividual china dishes or in paper cases. The latter should be 
oiled and dried in the oven, before filling. In individual por- 
tions ten to fifteen minutes' baking is needed. (See Souffles, 

page S43-) 

BREAD-AND-CHEESE CROUTONS 

Cut bread in rounds, diamonds, or other shapes, and half an 
inch thick; spread lightly with butter, then cover with a 
very fine shaving of American factory cheese, dust with 
paprika and set in the oven just long enough to melt the 
cheese. The cheese should not be brown. The bread may 
be sauted in butter, before being covered with cheese, if pre- 
ferred. .. 



386 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERvING 



CHe^Se TiMBALES 

2 tablespobiifulg of butt^t. i-i a potiiid of grated chefese. 

i tdbiefefiobilftils of flbur. Salt AhA paprika, 

t-iaeupof dream . 3 Wholfe ^ggs aild 

i-2 a eup of milk. 4 yolk§ of eggSi 
1-2 a eup of white stock; 

Make a saiicg of the butter, flour and liqtiid; in this itielt 
the cheese, and add the seasoiiings and the eggs beaten until 
well inixed. Bake in very siiiall tiihbale nioulds, staiidirig 
oil a folded paper in a paii of hot, not boiting, water. Let cdok 
uiitil the centres are firm. Serve hot with creaiii or toniato 
saUCe. If desired ihofe firin, use but one-fourth a ciip of 
stock. 

CHEESE IN SHELLS 

1 cUp of bredd crumbss 1-2 a teaspoonfUl of salt and 

paprika. 
About a pint of milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

2 eggs. 1-4 a pound of grated cheese. 

Mix the butter with the onitilbs ; add the salt and p&prikaj 
the cheese and the eggSj beaten and rtiixed with the ihilks 
Turn into buttered scallop Shells, cocottes or cups, afid bake 
until the egg is set. Serve at once in the dishes. 

GNOCGHI A LA ROMAINE 

(an ITALIAN CHEESE DISH) 

1-4 a bup of dbrrifetarch. i pint of liiilk. 

1-44 cup Of flout. Yolks of t#b ^ggs. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-4 a cup of butter. 

1-2 a teaspoofifttl bf paprika^ i eiip of grated Parmesan cheese. 

Mis the GOi-hBtarch, fldtir, gait, aild papfikd with milk to 
poUt and stif iiit6 the feihaitidef df a pint of itiilk, sdalded in 
the ddkble-beilerj stir constantly, until the iiiiiture thickens, 
and, DcCasionallyj for twenty tninutfeS; theti add the yblks of 
the eggs, mixed with the Creamed bUttet atld half 6f the cheese ; 
stir until the eggs Idfctk 6eok§d and the cheeSe is iiielted, th^ri 
turn into a shallow dish, to form a paste half an inch; thick. 




CHEESE BALLS. (See page 3S1.) 




CHEESE STRAWS AND RINGS 
(See pages .iSi and 382.) 




X*^ / /'//!■ V*V f/ffyV 



CHEESE CAKES WITH PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

CSee parre .^vS.) 



CHEES© STRAWS 381 

When cold cut In diamonds, arrange in a baking-dish that may 
be sent to the table, in two or more layers, wjth grated cheese 
between and on the top. Set the dish in the oven to reheat 
the paste and melt the cheese, Serve as a luncheon or supper 
dish or ag a cheese course, either with or without Qele'ry, or 
with green vegetable salad. 

CHEESE RINGS 

Let one-foufth a cup of butter and half a cup of rich, creamy 
milk heat to the boiling point, then stir in three-fpurths a 
cup of flour, sifted with half a teaspopnful pf salt and a dash of 
cayenne or paprika, stir aijd cook until the mixture l§ave@ the 
sides of the pan, then turn into a cold dish and beat into it two 
ounces (half a cup) of grated cheese and two eggs, one at a 
time. With a pastry^bag and small plain tube shape the 
dough, on oiled paper, in the form of rings; brush these with 
beaten egg and fry in hot fat three or four minutes. Sprinkle 
with grated cheese and serve hot with a green salad. They 
are also good cold. Parmesan cheese is preferable, but any 
cheese may be used. The paper should be of such si?S as will 
lie on the top of the fat. ' When the rings float from the paper, 
remove it, turn the riiigs and fry as dpughtiuts, 

CHEESE BALLS 

1 1-2 Gups pf American factory, 1-4 a teaspoonful of sa,lii. 
Neufchatel or cottage cheese. 1-4 a teagppppfijl of paprika. 

Cracker crumbs. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Mix together the cheese, salt, and paprika, then add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. Shape in small balls, roll in 

sifted cracker-crumbs and fry in deep fat to a delicate brown 
color. The balls will cook in less than one minute. Drain 
on soft paper at the oven door. Serve on a laee paper, either 
with celery at the close of dinner, or with a green Vegetable 
salad before the dessert. 

CHEESE STRAW? 

Roll plain or puff -paste into a rectangular sheet om4.Q'ir%h 
an inch thick. Sprinkle one-'balf with grated cheese, Parme- 



^82 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

san being preferable ; sprinkle also very lightly with paprika 
or cayenne. Fold the other half of the paste over the cheese 
and press the edges together; fold again, then pat and roll 
out as before; then add cheese as at first, folding and rolling 
out in the same way; add cheese twice more, then, when it 
is rolled into a sheet, cut into strips or straws and rings. Bake 
about eight minutes. 

CHEESE STRAWS, NO. 2 

I cup of pastry flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-3 a cup of butter. 

1-43 teaspoonful of baking- 1-2 to i cup of oheese^— 

powder. cold water. 

Make as any plain paste, adding the grated cheese with 
the butter. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

3 tablespoonK'ls of butter. i cup of American factory cheese 

1-3 a cup of flour. cut in small pieces. 

2-3 a cup of milk, or 1-2 a cup of grated Parmesan 

Chicken stock. cheese. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. I -4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Paprika. 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, and 
liquid; add the beaten yolks, the grated cheese and when well 
mixed stir in the pieces of cheese; turn into a dish to cool. 
Shape in balls, cylinders or pears, egg-and-breadcrumb 
and fry in deep fat to la delicate brown ; drain on soft paper. 
Serve with a green vegetable salad or with crackers. 

WELSH RABBIT 

I tablespoonful of butter. 1-2 a cup of cream or ale. 

1-2 apoundof cheese. Salt and paprika. 

Yolks of two eggs or 1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 
I whole egg. 

Put the butter into a hot dish, let melt and rim over the 
bottom; add the cheese, grated or cut fine, stir constantly 
until the cheese is melted, then stir in the yolks of eggs, beaten 
and diluted with the cream or ale ; add also the salt, paprika, 
and soda. Stir until smooth and creamy, then serve on the 




CHEESE CROQUETTEb WITH PAPER AIGRETTES. 
(See page 3S2.) 




CREAMED CELERY AND CHEESE AU GRATIN. 
(See page 311) 




GNOCCHI A LA ROMAINE. (See page 380,) 



GOLDEN BUCK 383 

tmtoasted side of bread, toasted but upon one side and disposed 
in shallow, individual egg dishes. This dish is a favorite for 
chafing-dish cookery. 

CHEESE-AND-TOMATO RABBIT. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 1-2 a cup of tomato puree. 

1-2 a pound of cheese. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. , 1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of paprika. 

Prepare as Welsh rabbit. 

GOLDEN BUCK 

Make a plain Welsh rabbit as given in the recipe; add to 
this half a teasjjoonful of Worcestershire sauce and a few 
drops of tabasco sauce. Serve on toast with a poached egg 
above the cheese mixture. 



CHAPTER XIV 
Batters and Doughs 

"The children gather wQod, g,nd the fathers kindle the fire, and the 
women knead their dPUgh tp iiiake cakes to the queen of heaven. " 

" Ephraim is a cake not turned. " 

"Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and 
make cakes upon the hearth. "^ 

Very early in the history of the worl4, it seemp, grp,ips and 
other substances, less nutritious, were groiind between gtopes, 
mixed with water to a dough, and baked upon hpt stgneg or 
before the fire. 

An uncooked piece of dough, being left accidentally a 
sufficient length of time, would, by the natural process of 
fermentation, give rise to a light dough that might be baked 
in this condition. In some way like this the desirability of 
providing an article of food that was light and porous — and 
easily penetrated by the digestive fluids — was probably dis- 
covered, and in time, by means of artificial processes, other 
and less uncertain means of lightening dough were evolved. 

DEFINITIONS OF BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

When meal or flour is mixed with liquid to such a consistency 
that it may be beaten, the mixture is called a batter. When 
the batter is of such consistency that it may be poured from 
the vessel or spoon in a continuous stream, it is called a pour 
batter. When the batter is of such thickness that it breaks 
and drops in pouring, it is a drop batter. When a mixture, 
cannot be beaten (beating- is done by cutting down with a 
spoon or other utensil from the top to the bottom of a mixture, 
and bringing the spoon up to the surface, passing over and 
down. again, and thus turning the mixture over and over), 
but needs be made smooth by tossing and ciitting with a 

384 



EXPANSION OP WATER IN COMPOSITION 385 

knife, kneading with-the hands, or beating with a rolling-pin. 
the mixture becomes a dough. The general proportions of 
flour and liquid to produce batter or dough are a$ follows: 
Equal measures of flour or meal and water make a pour .batter ; 
two measures of flour to one of liquid produce a drop batter, 
and three measures of flour to one of liquid produce a dough. 
These proportions are subject to many modifications, owing 
to combination with other ingredients, as sugar, butter, eggs, 
etc. Allowance must, also, be made for the kind of liquid 
and for the diflference in the thickening properties of different 
kinds and grades of flour or meal. 

THE LIGHTENING OF BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Batters and doughs are made ligiht by: 



. The generation of gas 
(Carbon dioxide) 
or 
Fermentation. 



„ ^ f Leaven, 

opontaneous. J 

(Decomposition of Starch.) 1 



Artificial. Action of acids on carbonate ojr 

alkali : — 

i' Bicarbonate of spda and muriatic ^cid. 
2'. Bicarbonate of soda and cream-of-tart^r. 
3'. Bicarbonate of soda and acid phosphate. 
4'. Bicarbonate of soda and acjds in lemon 
jtiice (citric) , sour milk (lactic) , or 
( molasses (acetic) . 

2 . The expansion of water in compositon. 

{By beating. 
By beaten eggs. 
By folding. 

EXPANSION OF WATER IN COMPOSITION 

The expansion of water by heat into several hundred times 
its volume is taken advantage of in making johnny-cake 
(joune or journey-cake), which originated with the American 
Indians. The early settlers in this country learned how to 
make it from the squaws. The grains of corn were parched -in 
hot ashes, sifted and beaten into powder, then stored in long 
leathern bags. When food was needed, a few spoonfuls- of 
meal were mixed with snow in winter, with water in summer, 



386 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and eaten uncoolced, or cooked before the open fire. Fifty 
years ago johnny-cake was a common article of food in New 
England, but it was made from commeal ground at the mil- 
ler's and baked in the oven. 

EXPANSION OF AIR INCORPORATED 

In making gems, as the spoon goes in and out and over the 
batter in beating, air is carried into the mixture, and the glut- 
inous cell walls of the flour confine air; this expanding when 
heated (air at 70° expands about three times its volume at the 
temperature of a hot oven), in connection with the expansion 
of the water or milk used as liquid as it is changed into steam, 
makes the gems light. In making puff or plain paste, it is 
the expansion of cold water used in mixing, and of cold air 
incorporated by folding, when the paste is placed in the heated 
oven, that gives lightness to the dough. Lacking heat, the 
glutinous cell walls do not harden when thus expanded, and 
the desired lightness is lost. 

We, also, make use of the glutinous consistency of albumen 
in eggs in lightening batters and doughs. In this case, too, 
the greatest care must be exercised in adding the beaten eggs 
to the mixture, lest the expanded cells be broken, and in bak- 
ing at such a temperature that the cells do not expand too 
quickly; and yet there must be sufficient heat to fix or harden 
the walls. 

LEAVEN 

Without doubt the earliest method of lightening batters 
and doughs was the one noted at the beginning of the chapter, 
the knowledge of which probably came by accident. Yeast 
plants always present in the air, settling upon grains that 
had been crushed between stones and mixed with water, 
and left in a warm place, would feed upon the sweet substances 
in composition and thus change them into other substances, 
one of which, carbon dioxide, would lift up the dough. A 
piece of this dough added to a piece of fresh dough would lift 
up or leaven the whole. 



ARTIFICIAL FERMENTATION 387 

YEAST 

As otherplants.than yeast are also floating in the air, many 
of them being inimical to the growth of the yeast germs, great 
uncertainty would result in the use of natural leaven. After 
many years of experiment, it was found possible to secure a 
pure culture of yeast plants, and to store these in such a man- 
ner that life lies dormant, until the proper conditions for 
growth are present (leaven or yeast is one of the principal 
leavening agents of to-day). The process of using leaven 
and yeast is long; to secure lightness by the expansion, of 
air or water requires much care in mixing and baking, whence 
other means of securing lightness were sought for by chemists. 

ARTIFICIAL FERMENTATION 

Carbonates are compounds from which gas can be set free ; 
the addition of an acid to a compound th^t sets gas free proves 
that such compound is a carbonate. That soda is a carbonate 
may be proved by the addition of several acids, any one of 
which will set free carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide may 
also be evolved from soda simply by heating it, but when 
soda is used alone, in batters and doughs, though lightness is 
secured, other essentials are lacking; the "cake" is yellow, 
and the unchanged carbonate neutralizes the acid in the 
digestive fluids, and thus impedes digestion. 

Sour milk, lemon juice, and molasses, through the lactic, 
citric, and acetic acids involved in their composition, when 
used with soda generate carbon dioxide ; but the quantity ■ 
and strength of the acids are variable. Nor is any one of 
these ingredients such as would be available or suitable at 
all times, and under all circumstances. 

The muriatic acid of the chemist seemed, at first, to be 
the ideal acid, combined with soda, to set free carbon dioxide, 
as the residue after fermentation was common salt; but the 
liberation of the gas was instantaneous, when the acid and 
soda met. So this combination was dismissed as impractical. 
Acid phosphates, the residue from which are mineral matters, 
were tried, and are still in use; but finally cream-of-tartar 



388 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

came to be considered the sine qua non, for which the culinary 
world was seeking to complete the necessary chemical reaction 
in the process of lightening food. There were several reasons 
for these conclusions, and these hold good to-day. 

Cream-of-tartar is a harmless substance, which does not 
unite chemically with soda until the application of heat, as 
well as moisture; and the residue (Rochelle salts) is harmless, 
taken in the quantity used in food, even when a large amount 
of such food is eaten. 

There is, however, one objection to the use of soda and 
cream-of-tartar. The proportion of each must be measured 
with the greatest accuracy. Rather more than twice as much 
of cream-of-tartar as soda, by measure, is called for. If the 
quantity of soda be too great, the caustic unneutralized car- 
bonate will neutralize the acid of the gastric juice and hinder 
digestion. In this casJe, the yellow color of the food tells the 
story, and the food may be avoided; but, on account of this 
necessary accuracy in measurement, baking-powder has come 
into general use. 

BAKING-POWDER 

The best approved baking-powder is a composition of 
bicarbonate of soda and cream-of-tartar, mixed in such propor- 
tion that one exactly neutralizes the other. A small quantity 
of cornstarch, or flour, is added to separate the ingredients. 
These three ingredients are mixed together by sifting many 
times '(ten or more) so that each little particle of carbonate 
and acid be surrounded by a thin coating, or film, of starch. 
These are many grades of soda, cream-of-tartar, and flour, 
and, of course, the best give the best results. 

BICARBONATE OF SODA 

Soda is obtained from "cryolite," a native deposit found 
in the earth, from certain marine plaruts,, and from common 
salt. At the present time the best soda is obtained from 
"cryolite" brought from Greenland, about 15,000 tons being 
annually worked up. Soda is cheap, and this ingredient is 
rarely, probably never, adulterated. Bicarbonate of soda, 
the form used for leavening .purposes, is produced by charging 
common soda with carbonic acid gas. 



FORMULA FOR A BAKING-POWDER jS^ 

CREAM-OF-TARTAR 

The acid used to set free the carbon dioxide in bicarbonate 
of soda is a deposit from grape juice foutid in wine casks. 
The name "argol" is given to this grape acid, which, when 
purified, becomes cream-of-tartar. This acid exists naturally 
in the grape, but, being insoluble in alcohol, it is gradually- 
deposited on the sides of the casks as the sugar of the juice is 
converted into alcohol by fermentation. The best argol is 
obtained from the wine-producing countries of Southern 
Europe, that from California, for some unknown condition of 
soil, climate or culture, being of an inferior grade. The color 
of argol depends upon the color of the grapes from which 
the juice is expressed. It varies from grayish white to reddish 
purple. Argol is first ground, and then purified. This latter 
process is an expensive one. Nothing is desirable but the 
pure grape acid ; lime, coloring, and all other impurities found 
in the argol, need be removed; and the purity, hence expense, 
depends entirely upon, the care of the refiners. Below is 
found the proper 

FORMULA FOR A BAKING-POWDER 

1 pound, 2 ounces of cream-of-tartar. 

1-2 pound of bicarbonate of soda. 

1-4 to 1-2 a pound of comstairch or fine flour. 

At first sight, one would say, "Why not buy the ingredients 
of a reliable chemist and mix one's own baking-powder?" 
This may be done, if the product is to be used very soon; still, 
the ingredients may not have been recently prepared and so be 
lacking in strength; then, too, the chemist has appliances for 
drying the ingredients before they are mixed, which does 
much to preserve their strength. Starch and cream-of-tartar 
can be most effectually dried out, but soda can be heated 
only slightly without the loss of gas. 

In use, baking-powder should always be sifted with the dry 
ingredients, to prevent, as far as possible, the escape of the gas, 
until the mixture is placed in the oven. In using soda and 
cream-of-tartar, pulverize and sift the soda before measuring, 



390 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and then sift both ingredients at least twice with the floury 
being careful to separate them with flour before measuring. 

PROPORTIONS OF ARTIFICIAL LEAVENING AGENTS 

I teaspoonful of soda to i pint of thick sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda to i cup of molasses, for batters. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of soda to one cup of molasses, for doughs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of soda to 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice in thick 

batters, for each two cups of &0VI1. 
T teaspoonful of soda to three and a half teaspoonfuls of cream-of -tartar 

to one quart of flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder to a cup of flour, in mixtures without 

eggs. 

SUGGESTIONS 

As the acid in lemon juice sets free carbon dioxide, in large 
measure, upon contact with the soda, mixtures in which these 
agents are employed will not be very light, and their use is 
restricted to cakes in which a close texture is desirable. Add 
the lemon juice to the eggs and sugar and sift the soda into 
the flour. 

Sour milk, buttermilk or cream with soda are most suc- 
cessfully used in mixtures in which cornmeal predominates. 
Such preparations are incomparably moister, more tender 
and delicate, when the leavening gas is thus generated, than 
when cream-of -tartar, in any form, is used as the generating 
acid. In wheat-flour mixtures, when pure cream-of-tartar 
and soda are used, either in bulk or in the form of baking- 
powder, if the correct proportions be taken and the proper 
temperature of the oven be secured, the cooked products will 
be neither too dry nor too porous. If such be the case, you 
have reason to suspect the presence of some other ingredient, 
or, in other words, an adulteration of the lightening agent. 

Iron utensils are preferable for baking pop-overs, muffins 
and griddle-cakes. These should be hot by the time the 
mixture is ready. To oil a griddle, press a steel fork into a 
slice of salt pork or piece of beef fat and with it rub over the 
surface of the griddle. The griddle is of the right temperature 
when the underside of the cake browns before the top shows 
signs of cooking other than the formation of gas bubbles. 



CHAPTER XV 
Bread and Bread-Making 

' Bread is the staff of life, but bread and butter is a gold-headed 



cane. 



In every part of the world, from the beginning of recorded 
time, bread has been a synonym of food. The cry of the 
starving in India, the mob in France, and the poor in Italy 
has ever been for bread. The reason for this is obvious, when 
we consider that very many even of the earlier and cruder 
forms of bread were made from cereals or corn-plants, as mil- 
let, oats, barley, and rye, and that these in themselves con- 
tain all the elements necessary for the growth and repair of the 
body, and in very nearly the proportion demanded in an ideal 
dietary. At the present day, throughout the civilized world, 
wheat is known to be the grain that contains gluten in pro- 
portion and quality necessary to the making of the most 
perfect bread. 
, A loaf of bread at least four thousand years old, a part of 
which was in such a state of preservation that it was possible 
to identify barley as the grain from which it was made, was 
lately found in Egypt. From records and monuments in 
that ancient land, we learn that the grain for bread was broken 
by pounding and that it was probably baked between or upon 
hot stones. The children of Israel ate leavened bread in 
Egypt, though the Chinese had used leavened bread long 
years before the time of Moses and the exodus from Egypt. 
The ancient Greeks cultivated the yeast plant, and in excava- 
tions at Pompeii an oven was found containing eighty-one 
loaves of bread not unlike our own. The older and higher 
the civilization, the more advanced the art of bread-making. 
Four hundred years ago the American Indian was just in the 

391 



392 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

infancy of the art, and the wild tribes of South Africa, to-day, 
have progressed no further. 

The bread of the ancients was made Hat and thin, as thus 
the heat could better penetrate .the heavy, compact dough ; 
and the expression, "to break bread," was from the actual 
mode of division. Bordeau notes that our rule of politeness, 
which exacts that bread be broken at table, instead of cutting 
it, is only the tradition of a very ancient custom. 

Though the art of bread-making is of such ancient origin 
and the opportunity for a general diffusion of knowledge has 
been so great, good bread is not an article in common use. 
In cities abroad, bread is not bafeed at- home; and in this 
country, as more and niore work is carried on outside the 
home-kitchefl, the baking of bread is sure to follow. At the 
present time, one cannot secure from bakeries bread and 
rolls made from quite as good materials, or baked and cooled 
quite as carefully, as it is possible to provide at home. In 
general, the bread made abroald, on account of the size and 
shape of the loaf, contains less starch in a crude form 
than that which we may call tfi'e American loaf. While the 
foreign loaf is not acceptable to the average American, it 
probably approaches more nearly the dietetic conditions 
required by oUr modern mode of life. Just how far the con- 
version of starch into dextrose, or allied substances, has pro- 
ceeded in the crusty loaf has not been exactly determined; 
and, in the bread of the future, chemical processes may be 
found by which the excess of starch that ordinary bread con- 
tains may be transformed or presented in a form less taxing 
to the digestive organs. 

The process of making bread with yeast is one of the most 
fascinating of studies for the chemist ot the cook. And the 
riiore the cook knows of the chemistry of bread-making, and 
the greater the skill with which she applies her knowledge 
to the practical working out of the process, the greater are her 
chances of securing a perfect loaf. Four .of the simplest 
ingredients in the culinary laboratory enter into the com- 
position of a loaf of bread ; yet the changes through which these 
materials pass before a finished loaf is evolved are the most 
complicated in all cookery. 



STARCH AND GLUTEN 393 



WHAT IS GOOD BREAD? 

Opinions differ as to just what properties good bread should 
possess. Some wish a moist crumb and tender crust, others 
a dry crumb and a flinty crust. But there are certain points 
upon which all agree; namely, bread should be agreeable in 
smell and taste, while it should be light and porous, to be 
easily penetrated by the digestive fluids. The bubbles of 
the crumb should be uniform in size and small. The surface 
should rebound when compressed, and the loaf should keep 
in good condition several days. 

INGREDIENTS USED IN BREAD 

The four ingredients that enter into a loaf of bread are 
flour, yeast, salt, and liquid. Milk or water, or a part of each, 
ma;y comprise the latter. Bread made with milk is more 
nutritious, but it dries more quickly than does bread in which 
water is used. The texture of milk bread, even with slight 
kneading, is velvety and pleasing. Half milk and half water 
is quite generally used. Water bread, without shortening, 
carefully manipulated gives a loaf of nutty flavor, but with 
tough crust. The French excel in the production of this 
bread. Water, with two tablespoonfuls of shortening to- the 
pint, is more generally preferred by American housekeepers. 

STRUCTURE OF A WHEAT GRAIN 

1. Wheat grains consist of an outer covering, largely silica, 
removed before milling. 

2. Three layers of bran coats, in the form of cells, contain- 
ing mineral matter, gluten, oil, etc. 

3. A layer of cells, chiefly gluten and other proteid matter. 

4. Centre and largest part of the grain made up of cells, of 
which star ch is the chief content . 

STARCH AND GLUTEN 

Mi3i Wheat flour and water to form a dough. Let stand a 
short time, then wash it on a sieve over a pan of water. Let 
the water settle; and, when it is poured off, a white mass, 



394 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

which, when dried, is fine as dust, is found in the pan. This 
is starch. And the doughy, gray, elastic mass left on the sieve, 
which may be taken up in the hands and pulled like candy, is 
gluten. These are the chief constituents of flour, and the 
relative proportion of these two substances determines the 
character of the flour. Gluten gives a strong, gray flour of 
slightly bitter taste, which will take up a large quantity of 
water. Such flour "spends well. " Starch gives a more deli- 
cate flour of sweet taste, which takes up, relatively, a small 
quantity of water. The tenacious, elastic gluten is needed 
in yeast mixtures, to hold the carbon dioxide that lifts up the 
dough and makes it light. But it is not as desirable in cake 
and pastry, where tenderness and delicacy are sought for. 
The relative proportion of starch and gluten in grains depends 
largely upon the soil and the climate in which the grain is 
grown. Hard spring wheat, planted in the spring and har- 
vested in August or early September in Minnesota and in North 
and South Dakota, is particularly strong in gluten, and con- 
tains a minimum quantity of starch. Flour inade from such 
wheat is designated as bread flour. Winter wheat is a softer 
variety, raised in the Middle and Southern States. It is 
planted in the fall, and harvested in the following June or 
July. Flour made from this wheat is designated as pastry 
flour, as it is well adapted to the purpose indicated by the 
name. 

WHEN TO USE BREAD AND WHEN PASTRY FLOUR 

As a general rule, bread flour is indicated in recipes where 
yeast is used, and pastry flour in all other cases. Less flour 
to a given quantity of liquid is needed, when bread flour is 
used. For a change, it is occasionally advisable to use pastry 
flour in bread-making. It gives a sweeter-tasting loaf. 

HOW TO DISTINGUISH BREAD AND PASTRY FLOUR 

Bread flour is granular to the touch. It passes readily 
through the sieve: a jar will send it through. When mixed 
into a dough, it- takes up a comparatively large quantity of 
moisture. On the other hand, pastry flour is soft and oily to 
the touch. Pressed in the hand, it keeps its shape, showing 



YEAST IN BREAD MAKING 395 

the impress of the lines of the hand. It does not pass so 
readily through the sieve, and it absorbs a comparatively 
small amount of moisture. 

MILLING METHODS 

The old-fashioned way of making flour was to pulverize 
the wheat in one operation through mill-stones; and then a 
crude separation of the flour and bran and other dark portions 
of the wheat berry was made by revolving reels covered with 
what is known as silk bolting cloth. Naturally, the separation 
was imperfect, and much of the brown portion remained in 
the flour. 

Modern milling is what is known as a gradual reduction 
system, whereby the wheat is gradually and carefully reduced. 
The wheat is run through six systems of rolls, for the purpose 
of loosening the middlings. These middlings are then purified 
by means of sieves and air-suction machines, which remove 
all the brown portion of the berry. The middlings- are, after 
purification, reduced to flour. The wheat grain is thoroughly 
cleaned and scoured before the flour-making process begins. 

YEAST IN BREAD-MAKING 

Yeast is a collection of living, one-celled organisms that 
partake of the nature of plant rather than animal life. These 
organisms may be produced by cultivation. In a proper 
environment — with necessary warmth, moisture, and complex 
food to feed upon — ^these microscopic fungi bulge a little 
upon one side. This bulge takes on an oval shape, and soon 
separates from the parent cell as a distinct organisni. Other 
cells quickly follow from the parent cell and from the new 
cells or buds; and thus the yeast plant grows. The little 
yeast plants or cells are vigorous and tenacious of life, living 
under most adverse circumstances; but these are killed on 
exposure to a temperature of about 212° Fahr. They endure 
cold niuch better, as life is simply suspended in a temperature 
of about 30° Fahr. The most favorable temperature for 
their growth is between 65° and 75° Fahr. A cake of com- 
pressed yeast, one of the best forms in which a housekeeper 
can secure a supply of yeast, is a collection of yeast plants 



396 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

massed together, withoHt the presence of suitable conditions 
for growth. By the exclusion of air and heat, the plants may 
be kept for some days alive and in vigorous condition 
for future growth. 

In making bread, we soften the cake in liquid, to separate 
the plants, and then stir them into the flour. Salt may be 
added as a matter of taste. It retards, perhaps, the growth 
of the plant. The little plants, finding in the starch and 
gluten of the flour a complex food which they enjoy, begin to 
feed and grow or bud; and chemical changes take place. 
Starch is changed to sugar, and sugar to alcohol and carbon 
dioxide (carbonic-acid gas). The gas, in its efforts to escape, 
expands the tenacious elastic cell walls of gluten in which it 
is entang'led, and lifts up the dough. If this dough be sub- 
jected to heat (212° Fahr. at the centre), the alcohol and 
carbon dioxide will be driven off, the cell walls fixed, and sweet 
bread produced. But, if the dough be left, to itself, this 
change, which is called alcoholic fermentation, will be followed 
by another change. The alcohol breaks up into acetic acid 
and Wafer ; and, if baked, the resultant bread will be sour. 

A good yeast cake is of a light even color. There is an 
absence of dark streaks through it. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MIXING AND BAKING BREAD 
TIME NEEDED FOR BREAD-MAKING 

Now, the greater the number of yeast plants, the more 
quickly, other conditions being favorable, will the bread be 
lifted up; and, in making bread, we take this fact into con- 
sideration. 

If bread is to be made quickly, two, even three, compressed 
yeast cakes may be used to a pint of liquid. Thus made, 
the whole process need not take over three hours. If dough 
is to be mixed at night and baked with the first fire in the 
morning, the quantity of yeast may be reduced to one-third 
a cake to a pint of liquid. The longer time of fermentation, 
as a rule, gives the best flavored bread; for the by-products 
of fermentation, which give a peculiar and characteristic 
sweetness to the loaf, are generated during the longer process. 



THE UTENSILS ' 397 

In using a large quantity of yeast, we may improve the flavor 
of the bread, at the expense of time, by "cutting down" the 
dough once or twice after it has risen to double its bulk. 

As the dough quickly rises again, after a part of the gas 
has been let out, this does not lengthen the process to any 
considerable extent. Still, except during extreme heat, when 
souring may be anticipated, the method fulfils the require- 
ments of occasional rather than general practice. 

PROPORTIONS OF THE INGREDIENTS 

The quantity of liquid rather than the quantity of flour 
determines the size of the loaf. Two cups of liquid will 
make two loaves of bread of average size ; but, whether two, 
two and one-half, or three portions of flour be used to one of 
liquid, the difference will be one of texture rather than of size. 
Two cups of liquid will be found a most convenient unit of 
measurement. With this use from one-third a icake of com- 
pressed yeast to one whole cake or even two or three cakes, 
according to the length of time to be spent in the operation, 
softened in half a cup of luke-warm liquid. If liquid yeast 
be used, take half a cup to two cups of liquid, in case the 
dough is -to stand over night. A level teaspoonful of salt, 
two tablespoohfuls of sugar, if desired, aaid from two to three 
pints of flour complete the necessary ingredients. 

THE UTENSILS 

A heavy earthen- ware bowl holds the heat. It is easily 
cleaned, and with care will last a life-time. It should be used 
for no other purpose. The yellow ware is preferable. For 
mixing the dough, no utensil is more easily handled than a 
brcad-bladed knife. A knife with wooden handle 'and blade 
an inch and a half wide can be purchased for fifty cents. A 
close-fitting tin cover with three or four perforations near the 
tap keeps the dough in the bowl from forming a crust, and 
furnishes means of escape for gases. The favorite pan, in this 
country, for baking bread is about eiglit inches long, four 
inches wide, and three inches deep: two of these are reqiiired 
for baking bread made with two cups of liquid. Russia iron 
pans of French make, in which two or more long, round loaves 



398 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

are baked side by side, are occasionally used. Cylindrical 
pans with covers are seen on the market ; but bread is more 
wholesome when baked in an open pan. 

KNEADING THE DOUGH 

When all the flour that is to be used has been added, and 
the ingredients have been thoroughly mixed, scrape the dough 
from the bowl on to a moulding board lightly dredged with 
flour. Toss with the knife. Then with finger-tips lightly 
floured bring forward the back of the dough, without pressing 
the fingers into it. Let the ball of the hand, just above the 
wrist, meet the dough; press down upon it, and move it back- 
ward ; then the tips again bring forward the back of the dough ; 
the ball of the hand meets it, and repeats the first process; 
and so a new portion of dough is brought in contact with the 
hand at each downward pressure. Occasionally turn the 
dough half way round, to keep it in a roundish mass: continue 
this kneading process until the mass of sticky paste is a smooth, 
elastic, fine, and even-grained ball of dough. Add but little 
flour during this process, and keep the crust that is formed by 
kneading intact by keeping the dough in motion, and never 
allowing the finger-tips to penetrate it. The mass acquires 
"body" under the manipulation. When elastic and full of 
minute air-bubbles, it has been kneaded enough. 

OBJECT OF KNEADING 

■Dough is kneaded the first time to distribute evenly the 
little yeast-plants and other ingredients, to give body to the 
dough, and bring out the elasticity of the gluten, and to make 
the mixture smooth. The second kneading is to break up 
the large 'cavities caused by gas bubbles, and to make the 
texture uniform and fine. The length of time reqmred for 
the first kneading depends somewhat upon the quantity of 
flour and shortening that is to be incorporated into the dough. 
The stiffer the dough and the richer the mixture, the longer 
the time required to make it smooth and elastic. From 
fifteen to thirty minutes are required. The second kneading 
should be only of such length as is needed to put the dough 
into the proper shape for baking. 




ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. (SfO page 402.) 




UTENSILS FOR BREAD-MAKING. fSee page 397,) 




BROWN BREAD AND MOULDS. 



RAISING BREAD 399 



TEMPERATURE AND TIME FOR RAISING BREAD 

As bacilli inimical to the proper growth of the yeast-plants 
may be introduced into the dough in the milk or water, it is 
advisable to scald the milk or boil the water, and then cool 
to a temperature not over 100° Fahr., before adding the yeast. 
While this may not kill bacilli present in the liquid, it retards 
their growth for the time being, and leaves the yeast-plant in 
possession of the field. The taste and texture of bread are 
largely dependent upon the time given for rising. If the flavor 
and other characteristics associated with home-made bread 
be desired, they can be best secured by long, slow rising at a 
temperature a little below that of the living room, or between 
5$ and 60 ° Fahr. In winter, bread made with one-third a 
yeast cake to a pint of liquid, and set at 8 p. m., may be left 
standing in a room, that in the course of an hour or two drops 
to the temperature given above, until seven in the morning. 

While, all things considered, a temperature of 68° Fahr. 
is probably the most favorable for bread-making, the opera- 
tion may be hastened by setting the bowl of dough in a pan of 
water that is kept just below 90° Fahr. When the dough has 
risen to about double its original size, it should be "cut down" 
— cut and worked with a knife, — to break up the bubbles of 
gas and retard the fermentation. The "cutting down" pro- 
cess may be repeated several times, to the improvement of 
the bread, if the rising be not continued too long at any one 
time. If the fermentation be allowed to proceed too long, the 
glutinous cell walls holding the gas become weakened, the 
dough loses its pufEy, rounded appearance and flattens, or 
"caves in," showing that the alcoholic fermentation has 
passed into the acetic. The bread will be sour. Often dough 
that does not reach this condition is subjected to fermentation 
too long; and too much of the goodness of the flour — probably 
of the gluten — is consumed by the yeast-plants, and a dry, 
tasteless, chippy bread results. This is particularly the 
case with bread made of entire wheat flour. As a general 
rule, dough made with one cake of compressed yeast to a pint 
of hquid will double in bulk in three hours. About one hour 



400 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

is required for the second rising, after the dough is in the 
pans, and a fifth hour for baking. 

SHAPING THE DOUGH 

Knead the dough slightly, and divide it into the reqwsite 
number of pieces. When a round is desired, shape this with 
the hands and fingers, by folding over and patting, until no 
wrinkles are to be seen. If the dotigh was properly motdded 
in the first place, it will not stick to the fingers now- If it 
should stick, a little butter, not fiour, is the remedy- If the 
dough is to be given a long, oval shape, the moulding board 
is needed. When doubled in bulk, the loaves are ready to" 
bake. 

THE BAKING 

Yeast bread is baked to kill the ferment, — lest fermentation 
go on in the stomach, — ^to drive off alcohol, stifEen the glutin- 
ous walls, cook the starch, and form a pleasant-tasting crust. 

The yeast-plant is killed at a temperature of 212° Fahr. 
To raise the temperature at the centre of the ordinary loaf 
to this point reqmres nearly an hour's cooking in an oven 
heated, when the bread is put in, to about 400° Fahr.; that is, 
in a fast oven. Where the temperatTare of the oven is gauged 
by a "heat indicator," the index is just past the central 
mark, or twelve o'clock. The loaves in such an oven will 
rise a liitle, crust over, and brown slightly, in spots, during 
the first fifteen minutes. Biscuits and rolls require a hot 
oven, and will bake in from twenty minutes to half an iour; 
A thick loaf of bread baked in the early morning is considered 
in good condition for .eating by night ; but it will be in better 
condition the next morning. Thin biscuits, if thoroughly 
baked, are not as objectionable hot, as slices from a thick 
loaf. Still, when thoroughly masticated, the digestibility of 
fresh (not hot) and stale bread is about the same. 

CARE OF BREAD AFTER BAKING 

Remove the bread at once from the tins and let cool in 
fresh air, uncovered. Store, when fully cold, in a tightly. 
covered stone jar. This should be washed, scalded, dried 



MILK BREAD 401 

and aired at least once a wgek. Never pu]b put slices into the 
jar, bu|; keep this receptaclg free from cri^ml^s. Never put a 
cloth into the jar with the bread. 

THE SPONGE 

A sponge, in bread-making, is a mixture of flour with liquid 
and yeast. It is usually made thin, and in consequence the 
ferment acts very quickly. A sponge is advisable for bis- 
cuits and all yeast preparations where much shortening i§ to 
be used, as it retards the rising. After fermentation hfts been 
established in the sponge, the shortening may be add,ed lyith 
the rest of the flour; and the whole will quickly become light. 

POTATO YEAST 

2 quarts of boiling water. 1-4 a pwp of salt. 

4 or s large potatoes. 3-4 a cup of grarnilp,tef^ si^gar. 

I piiit of ye9.st. 

Pare, grate, and cook the potatoes in the boiling ■vyafer. 
Let stand in cold water, then stir as they are grated into the 
boiling water, to keep the yeast light-colored ; let cook about 
ten minutes after all the potato is grated, then stir in the salt 
and sugar, and when cooled to about 68° Fahr. stir in the yeast. 
Let stand in a temperature of 68° Fahr. twenty-four hours, 
stirring as it becomes light and frothy. Store in ffuit jars, 
tightly closed. Fill the jars half full only. Use half a cup 
of yeast to a pint of liquid and mix at night or early morning. 

RECIPES FOR BREAD WITH YEAST 
MILK BREAD 

2 cups of scalded milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tafelespoonfuls of shortening. 1-3 to 3 wJ)ole yeast cakes. 

2 tablespo.qnf ijls pf si;gar. i - 2 a cup of lukewarm wa^er. 

6 or more cups of flour. 

Pour the milk over the shortening, sugar, and salt in the 
bowl; when cooled to a luke-warm temperaturp add the yeast, 
softened and mjxecl with the luke-warm water, and stir in. the 
flour; follow the directions given under "kneading." Wash, 



402 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

dry and butter the bowl, put in the dough and set aside 
covered. Finish according to directions previously given. 

FRENCH BREAD (ADAPTED FROM RECIPE BY 
PROFESSOR BLOT) 

I cup of lukewarm water. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 to a whole yeast cake. About four cups of fiour. 

Soften the yeast in half of the water, then stir into it enough 
flour to make a very stifE dough (nearly two cups). Knead 
thoroughly, shaping into a ball. Make two cuts on the top 
about one-fourth of an inch deep, then place the paste in a 
small sauce-pan of tepid water, the cut side up. In a few 
minutes the ball will begin to swell and float on the top of the 
water. When quite light, remove with a skimmer to a bowl 
containing the rest of the water and the salt. Stir in enough 
flour to make a dough stiff enough to knead, — nearly two 
Clips, — and let stand in a temperature of about 68° Fahr. 
until light. Then shape into a loaf, and, when again light, 
bake. 

MILK AND WATER BREAD 

Same as milk bread, using one cup of scalded milk and one 
of boiled water, cooled to a lukewarm temperature. 

WATER BREAD 

Same as above, using all boiled water and two additional 
tablespoonfuls of shortening. Knead half an hour. 

ENTIRE WHEAT OR GRAHAM BREAD 

2 cups of scalded milk. 1-3 to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

2 tablespoonfuls of shortening. 1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. 2 cups of white flour. 

About 4 cups of entire wheat flour. 

Proceed as for the ordinary white loaf, mixing stiff and 
kneading quite as long. Molasses instead of sugar may be 
used for sweetening. 



BARLEY BREAD 403 

RYE BREAD 

» cups of scalded milk. 1-3 to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. About 4 cups of rye flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of shortening. Enough wheat flour for kneading. 

Make as wheat bread using entire wheat flour for kneading. 

KUEMMEL BROD (CARAWAY-SEED BREAD) 

I cup of scalded milk. i yeast cake. 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-33 cup of lukewarm water. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of caraway seeds. 

I - 2 a tablespoonful of salt. About 4 cups of rye flour. 

Wheat flour for kneading 

Knead fully half an hour. When risen to double in bulk, 
shape into a long roll and bake in a French pan. Serve, either 
warm or cold, in the form of sandwiches, for five o'clock teas. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

$ cups of hot oatmeal mush. 1-3 to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

3 tablespoonfuls of shortening: 1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 4 cups of white flour. 

1-4 a cup of sugar or molasses. About 4 cups of entire wheat flour. 

Add the shortening, salt, and sweetening to the mush, 
cooked as for breakfast; when cooled to lukewarm add the 
yeast softened in the half-cup of lukewarm water, and the 
flour ; mix very stiff with flour and knead until elastic. Finish 

as other bread. 

BARLEY BREAD 

2 1-2 cups of hot barley mush. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

(Barley crystals or granulated 1-3 a yeast cake to 3 cakes, 
barley.) 1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar Wheat flour to knead. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 

Add the sugar, salt, and butter to the hot mush. When 
lukewarm add the yeast cake, dissolved in the lukewarm 
water, and white flour to make a very stiff dough. Knead 
until elastic, thep finisl? =>s other bread. All bread made 



404 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

with mush takes up a large qjfaiitity of flour before it loses 
its stickiness. In order to mould easily, such dough needs be 
mixed much stiffer than ordinary bread dougli. 

FIVE HOUR BREAD 

1 pint of scalded milk or t teaspoonful of salt. 

boiled water. i cake of compressed yeast. 

2 tablespppnfi^l? of bu|;t,er. cottolene, 1-2 a cup of lukewarm liquid. 

' lard, or other shortening. Flour to knead. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. (6 to 8 cups.) 

Add f Jie shortening, sugar, gind salt to the hot mjlk, When 
lukewarm add tlje yeast, SQf]tened in the half-cup of Ijquid, 
and flour to knead. Thg dough will be light in about three 
hours, then shape into loaves. They will become light in 
about one hour; bake the fifth hour. 

GLUTEN BREAD 

3 cups of milk or water. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
I cake of compressed yeast. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

About 3 pints of gluten fiojir. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, if agree- 

I egg. * able. 

Make a sponge, having the milk or water lukewarm, with 
the liquid yeast and a pint of flour. When light add the salt, 
butter, sugar, if used, the beaten egg and gluten flour to 
knead. Kiiead until smooth and elastic. Shape into loaves. 
Bake about one hour. 

BROWN BREAD WITH YEAST (COLONIAL RECIP^) 

I quart of Indian meal. i cup of molasses (scant) . 

I pint of boiling water. 1-23, cup of hoijie-njade yeast. 

I pint of rye ijieaJ. Wariji lyater to piix. 

Stir the boiling water ipjto the meal so as to half scald it; 
add, when cold, the rye meal, molasses, yeast, and warm 
Water to mix as stiff as can be mixed with a spoon. Turn 
into iron brown bread pans and let stand until light. Then 
bake in a hot oven half an hour, at the enud of this time, put 
on the cover and bake slowly two or three hours — three hours 
will be none too long — in a moderate oven. 



SALAD OR LUNCHEON ROLLS 405 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

2 cups of scalded milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

T yeast cake. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a ctip of luke-W'arni water. 1-2 a cup faf butter. 

Flour. 

Make a sponge of the iriilk, scalded and CoOlfed, the yeast 
cakej softened in the lukewarm water, and about two cups of 
fiouf ; beat thoroughly, cover; and set aside until light: then 
add the sugar, salt, melted butter and flour to knead. Knead 
about twenty minutes ; let rise until double in bulk, then shape 
into balls, cover closely, and when light press deeply the handle 
of a small wooden spoon across the centre of each biscuit 
without dividing it; brush the edge of one-half with butter, 
fold, and press together lightly; place in buttered tins some 
distance apart, cover and bake, when light, from twelve to 
eighteen minutes. 

Crescents 

Prepare a Parker House roll-inixture, adding flouf to make 
a very stifE dough; when light roll out in a sheet one-eighth 
an inch in thickness and cut into strips about seven inches 
wide J cut these iilto sharp-pointed triangles, tiieti, comrriten- 
cing at the base, toll thefil up, bring the ends toward ekch 
other, keeping the poiiit ih the middle of the roll, to give the 
shape of a crescent. Place on baking titls sortie distaiicte apart; 
when light briish the tops with Wctrm Wd,ter and bake ftoiti 
fifteen to twenty mihutes; then brUSh over with yolk of egg 
beaten with tiVo tablespOonftils of milk, and return to the OVeri 
to brown. 

salad or luncheon rolls 

Use the formula for Parker House rolls, increasing the 
quantity of butter by half a cup and adding the whites of two 
stiff-beaten eggs. Shape into balls and let rise until light 
and puffy, then make a deep crease in the middle of each 
biscuit with the floured handle of a small wdoden spoon; 
brush the crease with melted butter and press the edges 
together. Place the biscuits close together iv a buttered 



4o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pan, cover, let rise a little and bake twelve to fifteen minutes 
in a hpt oven. 

BREAD STICKS 

I cup of scalded milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I cake of compressed yeast. White of one egg. 

1-4 a cup of lukewarm water. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. Flour. 

Make a sponge of the milk, yeast and flour; when light add 
the other ingredients, the white of egg beaten until light, 
when ready to shape, form into small balls, then roll (without 
flour) on the board with the hands, until strips, uniform in 
size and in shape of a thick lead pencil, are formed. Set to 
rise in a pan designed for the purpose, leaving them full or 
half-length, as desired. Bake when light in a hot oven. 

BRAIDS 

Roll the sticks to the desired length, then braid them in 
three or four strands, having the braids wider in the centre 
than at the ends. 

TOMATO BISCUITS 

Roll a light dough, prepared by the recipe for salad rolls 
or French bread, into a sheet half an inch thick, cut into four- 
inch squares, brush over the corners with cold water, then fold 
them over to meet in the centre ; press the comers down closely 
upon the dough below. Arrange the biscuit in a baking-pan 
so that they will just touch one another, and brush over the 
tops with melted butter; when risen to nearly double in bulk, 
brush with butter a second time and bake. 

SWEDISH ROLLS (SPICED CURRANT) 

I pint of scalded milk. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I cake of compressed yeast. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. Flour to knead. 

3 eggs. 3 tablespoonsful of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of butter. 2 tablespoonsful of cinnamon. 

I cup of currants. 



GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 407 

Make a sponge and prepare the dough as in all biscuit mix- 
tures made with yeast When ready to shape, roll into a 
sheet about one-fourth an inch thick, brush over with butter, 
dredge with the cinnamon and sugar and sprinkle with the 
currants; roll up like a jelly roll, cut into rounds and set on 
end, side by side, in a pan ; when light bake about half an hour: 
a little longer time is needed than for ordinary biscuit of the 
same size. When baked, brush over the tops with yolk of 
egg diluted with milk, or with sugar dissolved in milk, and 
return to the oven to brown. 

GERMAN. COFFEE CAKE (MRS. DE BARRY) 

2 cups of scalded milk. i cup of sugar. 

I cake of compressed yeast. Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

1-4 a cup of lukewarm water. t teaspoonful of salt. 

4 eggs. Flour. 

I cup of melted butter. Blanched almonds. 

Soften the yeast in the water and add to the cooled milk 
wit"h enough flour to make a batter. When light and spongy 
add the eggs, beaten without separating, the butter, lemon 
juice, salt, and flour to make a soft dough that may be kneaded. 
Knead until elastic, then set aside until light. When light 
roll out in a sheet an inch thick and fit into pans. When 
again light brush over the top with butter and sprinkle with 
blanched almonds, fine chopped. Bake about half an hour. 
Reheat by letting stand a few moments in a hot oven. Serve 
with coffee or chocolate. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

1 cup of scalded milk. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

2 cakes of compressed yeast. i - 2 a teaspoonful of salt. 
I -4 a cup of water. i egg. 

Flour for a sponge. Grating of lemon rind. 

1-3 a cup of melted butter. Flour. 

Make a sponge with the milk, yeast softened in the water, 
and flour; when light add the other ingredients and flour to 
make a very stiff batter; beat thoroughly; when light again 
spread in a buttered dripping-pan, cover, and let rise. When 



4o8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

reddy for thfe ovteii, briish ovfef ivitll beaten egg and dtist 
thickly -s^ith sUgar knd clnriafndn, mixed. Bake in a hdt ovefl. 

GiERMAN COFFEE CAKES (MARSTON'S RESTAURANT^ 
BOSTON) 

2 1-2 pounds of bread <iough. s ounces of powdered sugar. 

(atq^it 3 pints) . 1-2 a ^oiind of buttet (i ciifi) . 

3 yolks of eggs. i tekspdonful of lemon extract. 

Chop the dough into bits; work in the sugar, butter, yolks 
of eggs and lemon extract; let rise until light (about two 
hours), breaking do'wn the dough once or twice. Roll out 
into a sheet half an inch in thickness and cut into strips six- 
teen inches in length. Place each strip of paste in horizontal 
position and twist by rolling with the handsy drawing one 
towards and the other from you. This twists the dough and 
makes it longer. Ndw bring the ends together and twist the 
strips again in the same manner. Lastly form into a loop or 
the figure 8. Place the cakes on a baking-pan that they may 
come lightly in contact when light enough to bake. t)6 not 
allow them to become too light before iDaking, or they will not 
have the flaky character desired. When baked and nearly 
cool, spread the tops with icing made of confectioner's sugar 
and hot water, flavored with lemon juice or extract. 

ZWIEBACK (BERLINER FRAU) 

2 cups of scalded and cooled milk 3-43 cup of butter. 
or water, or half of each. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I cake of compressed yekst. 3 eggs. 

1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. FJour as for bread. 

Flour for a sponge (nearly 3 cups). 

Shape into long narrow loaves and bake about fifty minutes. 
When cold cut into slices about half an inch thick and brown 
in the oven or dry in a slo^f oven witliotit btownirig. 

EASTER OR HOT CROSS BUNS 

U§e' the refcipe fdf Zwiebafck and either white or entire 
#heai flotit. When the dough is ready for shaping, form 




OATMEAL BISCUIT. (See page 429.) 




BREAD STICK PAN, BREAD STICKS AND SALAD ROLLS. 

(See pages 40^ ^nrl 406.) 



OLD FASiildNED BROWN BREAD 409 

into balls, plkce these on a bsiking-shfeet, soiiie distaricfe slj)alrt, 
smooth side tip ; covfer and let rise. "When teady ibt tHe bveil 
^cdfe the buns, in form bi a ci-dss, and bdke in a hbt oveh; 
bftish OVet tlie td^s with the yolk of an egg, diluted with one- 
fdUfth eL cUp of milk in which one-fdllrth a tablespoohfdl of 
sugEtf has been di^olved; diist the cfdss thickly with Cinna^ 
mon and return td the dven fdr a few mdments. 

OATMfiAL BISCUITS 

2 ciijis of hot milk. i yeast cake. 

i clip cif uticobked oatmeal. t-2 a cUp bf liikewarfai watef. 

3 table^podlifuls of biittei'. About 2 ciips, each, of white ahd 
I teaspioonful of salt. entire wheat flour. 

1-2 a Cup of sugar or molasses. 

Stir the oatmeal into the scalded inilk, let stand five min- 
utes, then add the butter, salt, and sweetening; when luke- 
warm add the yeast cake, softened in the lukewarm water, 
and the flour; beat very thoroughly ahd set to rise; when light 
beat a second time and drop from a spoon into very smfell 
tiitibale moulds. Half fill the moulds. Bake in a hot dvenj 
when the dough fills the moulds. 

"SALLY LUNN" (Mrs. PETERSON, VIRGirJlA) 

I cup of scalded milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

1 cup of boiled water. 4 eggs, well beaten. 

1-2 a cake of compressed yeast, i cup of butter mixed with lard or 

1-2 a cup of lukewarm water. cottolene. 

3 cups of flour. I quart of flour. 

At eleven o'clock a. m. make a sponge of the milk, water, 
yeast and three cups of flour. When light a:t about half 
past one, add the eggs, shortening, salt, and the flour; beat 
hard atid turn into the pang, in which it is to be baked. Bake 

lot tea. 

OLi3-FASHIONEb BROWN BREAlJ 

I quart of Indian meal. 1-2 a cup of yeast or 

iiot water. 2 yeast cakes softened in 

I pint of rye meal. 1-2 a cup of water, 

i cup of nidlas^es. i teasjjoonful bf salt. 

Warm water. 



410 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Stir about a pint of boiling water into the Indian meal. 
When lukewarm add the other ingredients and .fenough luke- 
warm water to mix stiff with a spoon. Turn into an iron 
brown-bread pan and let stand until light. Put into an 
oven at the usual temperature for bread. After half an hour, 
put on the cover and bake very slowly two or three hours. 

PULLED BREAD 

Remove bread from the oven before it is quite, baked, that 
is, reduce the ordinary time of baking ten or fifteen minutes. 
Grate off a thin layer of brown from the oiitside as when 
making "rasped" rolls, then with the hands pull the loaf 
apart and into pieces half the size of the hand and less than an 
inch thick; return to the oven, or the warming-oven, in a 
dripping-pan and let cook or dry until colored slightly. Serve 
at once or set aside and reheat before serving. 

PULLED BREAD, NO. 2 

Use a long loaf of French bread, or home-made bread, 
kneaded in such a manner that the grain of the bread will be 
lengthwise of the loaf. Bake the loaf thoroughly, and when 
cool enough to handle remove the crusts. Gash the loaf at 
ends and pull apart into halves, pulling from the outside to- 
wards the centre. Gash the halves and separate into quar- 
ters. Repeat the process until the pieces are the size of a 
Jarge bread stick. Place on a rack in a pan and dry out the 
moisture in a slow oven ; then brown to a delicate color. Keep 
in a dry place and reheat before serving. The bread should 
snap when broken. 

RASPED ROLLS 

Use a Parker House or other unsweetened roll mixture; 
shape into balls about the size of an ordinary Parker House 
roll. Set some distance apart on a buttered tin, and when 
light bake until the whole surface is of an uniform brown 
color. Grate off a very thin layer from the outside of the 
crust in a rasping machine. When only a few are to be pre- 
pared, an ordinary lemon grater may be used, great care being 
taken to remove the outer layer of crust evenly. 



MILK TOAST 411 



TOAST 



When toast is properly made, the moisture in the bread 
is slowly dried out, and then the outside of the slice is changed 
by stronger heat to a golden brown. This requires constant 
attention ; the bread .needs be turned constantly, lest it brown, 
before the drying out is completed. This process changes the 
starch to dextrose, and thus continues, outside the stomach, 
the digestion of the starch begun in the first cooking of the 
bread. A bed of coals, a hinged toaster, and a slice of stale 
bread would seem to be the sine qua non for this operation; 
but a well toasted slice of bread is not the impossibility that 
the ordinary result would indicate, when gas and oil stoves 
are used for this purpose. When a gas range is used, the 
toaster needs be held slightly above the hot plate set over the 
flame or else under the flame, in the lower oven. 

Cut the bread for toast in even slices one-fourth an inch 
thick; these may be toasted as cut, but they look better when 
the slices are trimmed to be uniform in shape and size. Pre- 
pare and serve a few slices at once and when needed. Send 
to the table in a hot toast rack, or, if a plate be used, keep the 
sUces separate and thus crisp. Toast used for meat in sauces, 
poached eggs, etc., is usually dipped' quickly into boiling, 
salted water, then spread with softened or creamed' butter. 
When used under game, it is moistened with the dripping 
from the baking-pan and spread with the liver of the game 
mashed fine and seasoned. For serving as dry toast, pleasing 
effects are secured by changes in the toaster. Toasters with 
lengthwise wires and those with lengthwise and crosswise 
wires give difEerent results. 

MILK TOAST 

Cut four slices of bread half an inch thick and toast as 
above; dip the edges of each slice into boiUng salted water, 
arrange on a serving-dish and pour over them one cup of 
white sauce made with milk. Or the slices, one at a time, 
may be put in the dish of sauce, and, when the sauce has been 
dipped over them, transferred to the serving-dish. 



412 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TOMATO TOAST 

Prepare four slices of milk toast. Remove the skin itbm 
two tomatoes and cut in halves : dip in melted butter, theh in 
fine cracker or breadcrumbs, sprinkle with salt and broil 
until the tomato is softened and the crumbs browned. Serve 
half a tomato on each slice of toast. 

TOMATb tOASt, NO. 2 

Pre|)ate as rriilk toast, using half a cup, each, of tomato pulp 
and milk in the sauce. Grated cheese may be added if de-- 
sired. 

dkEAM TOAST 

P'repare four slices of toast; dust with salt and pour over 
one cup and a half of cream that has been kept heated to 
about 1 60° Fahr. fifteen minutes or longer. 

CREAM TOAST WITH CHEESE 

Sprinkle hot toSstfed bread with gfated cheese, and set in 
the oven iiniil the cheefee inelts ; potir over hot creatri, or white 
sauce made with milk, and ser-tre at once. A beaten egg may- 
be added to the fcrfearrl or to the saiice. 

RECIPES FOR BREAD WITH OTHER LEAVENING AGENTS 
THAN YEAST 
JOHNNY-CAKE 

Stir one pint of scalded milk or water, or half of each, into 
one cup of yellow or white cornmeal, to which a teaspoonful of 
salt has been added. Bake in a shallow pan. 

JOHNNY-CAkE, NO. 2 

Into one pint of meal and one teaspoonful of salt stir boil- 
ing water to make a thick drop batter; thin to a thick pour 
batter with cold milk; drop by tablespoonfuls onto a hot 
btltteted frying-pan and bike as griddle cakes. 

POPOVERS (ANNIE C. GROVER) 

Beat three eggs until very light without separating; add, 
alternately, sifted flout and milk — a little at a time — until a 
pint of each has been used; beat thoroughly with thfe fegg- 



VIRGINIA SPOON CORN BREAD 4^ 

beater. Put one-fourth a teaspoonful of butter iijtp eacfi hot 
cup, and fill them to two-thirds their height with the better, 
Bake between thirty and forty minutes in a rather hot oyen; 
use for a change half entire-wheat flour. 

MARYLAND BEATPIM BISCUIT ("ROSlE^'j) 

With the tips of the fingers work a teaspQpnful pf butter 
into each pint of flpur, then mix witli miljs to a dough; beat 
twenty minutes, then cut into rounds and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

BEATEN BISCUIT, NO. 2 

Sift together two quarts of fiour, one teaspoopiful of sai,lt, 
and two level teaspoonfuls of bajcing-powder ; with the tips 
of the fingers work iri orie-fourth a cxfp of better; jtjien, using 
one ar).|d a half to two cups of ice watejr, mix to a dough; beat 
twenty minuteS; cut into rounds, prick with a fork, and bake 
about tjiirty minjf^e,s. 

OLD VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD (MRS. PETERSON, WEST 

VIRGINIA) 

Stir one pint of commeal into one quart of scalded milk; 
stir and cook to a "mush. " Let cool a little, add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half a cup of sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of 
three eggs, and, lastly, fold in the whites of three eggs, beaten 
stiflE. Melt two tablespoonfuls of shortening in the baking- 
pan, pour in the mixture, and bake forty-five minutes. 

OLR VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD WITIJ VARIATJPNS 

Stir one cup either of rice or grits, previously cooked, and 
one cup of c^rrjmeal i?lto one quart of scalded jfiilk and pro- 
ceed as above. 

VIRGINIA SPOON CORN BREAD (MRS. PETERSON. WEST 

VIRGINIA) 

1-2 a cup of breakfast hominy. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 quart of boiling water. 3 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. i cup of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cottolene or lard, i pint of cornmeal. 
I 1-2 teaspoonfuls of baking-ppwdpr. 



414 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Add the salt to the water, stir in the hominy and cook thirty 
minutes; then add the shortening, the eggs beaten and mixed 
with the milk, and lastly the cornmeal sifted with the baking- 
powder. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish three-fourths an 
hour. Send to the table in the dish in which it is baked. 
Serve with a spoon. The quantity indicated in the recipe 
will serve ten people. 

BREAKFAST CORN CAKE 

2-3 a cup of butter. 21-2 cups of yellow cornmeal. 

1 cup of sugar. i 1-2 cups of white flour. 

Yolks of three eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

2 cups of milk. i teaspoonful of soda. 

Whites of three eggs. 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually, then the 
egg yolks beaten and mixed with the milk, the meal, and flour 
sifted with the soda and cream-of-tartar, and, lastly, the 
whites of the eggs beaten dry. Bake in a dripping-pan about 
twenty-five minutes. 

STOCKBRIDGE CAKE (MASSACHUSETTS) 

4 level teaspoonfuls of yellow i teaspoonful of sugar, 

cornmeal. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of buttgr. 3 eggs. 

I pint of scalded milk. 

Stir the meal into the hot milk, add the salt and let cook 
until the milk thickens a little. Add the butter, sugar, 
beaten yolks of eggs, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. Bake in a deep buttered dish twenty to thirty minutes. 
Serve from the dish in which it is baked. 

SPIDER CORN CAKE (MISS PARLOA) 

3-4 a cup of cornmeal. i egg. 

1-4 a cup of white flour. 1-2 a cup of sweet milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1-2 a cup of thick sour milk. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 1-2 a cup of sweet milk. 

Sift together the dry ingredients, stir in the egg beaten 
and mixed with half a cup of sweet milk, and the sour milk, 
which should be very thick. Melt the butter in a small 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 41 S 

frying-pan, turn in the mixture and pour the second half- 
cup of sweet milk over this without stirring. Bake about 
twenty-five minutes. Cut in triangles for serving. This 
corncake is sometimes called custard corn cake,, as when the 
conditions are favorable, a line of creamy custard is formed 
within the cake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup of yellow com meal. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of rye meal. 21-2 teaspoonfuls of soda. 

I cup of entire-wheat flour. 2-3 a cup of molasses. 

I pint of thick sour milk. 

Pass the dry ingredients together through a sieve and add 
the molasses and sour milk: beat thoroughly and turn into a 
buttered mould. Steam three hours. Replenish the steamer 
with boiling water as needed. Large and small moulds for 
steaming this bread are purchasable. Baking-powder cans, 
pound size, may be used. Four cans are needed for this 
recipe. Two hours' cooking will suffice in this case, but longer 
Steaming is no disadvantage. If raisins are used, seed them 
and add here and there as the batter is turned into the mould. 
To decorate a loaf that is to be sent whole to the table, cut 
the raisins almost in halves, remove the seeds and press 
against the buttered sides of the mould, then turn in the. mix- 
ture. Though it does not give as good bread, water may 
supply the place of the sour milk ; one cup and three-fourths 
will be sufficient. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD, NO. 2 

Sift rye and yellow commeal, then measure out a cup of 
each, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two teaspoonfuls of soda; 
mix with one cup of thick, sour milk, half a cup of warm (not 
hot) water, and half a cup of molasses. Turn into a buttered 
mould and steam three hours after boiliiig begins. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD (DR. MARY NICOLA) 

Sift together one cup, each, of sifted rye and yellow com- 
meal and half a teaspoonful of salt ; add half a cup of molasses, 
*hen well beaten yolks of two eggs and from one to on? and 



4i6 PRACTICAL CQOKING AND SERVING 

a half cups of thin creain ; lastly fold in the whites of two egga 
beaten until dry. Turn into a buttered mould and step.m 
three hours ; then bake one hour. 

GENERAL RULE FOR MUFFINS 

Sift together one cup, each, of meal and flour, or two pf 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, four or five level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder and from two tablespoonfuls to 
half a cup of sugar. Beat an egg until light without separ- 
ating, add one cup ^.nd a fourth of milk, and stir at once into 
the dry ingredients. Add also from one tablespoonful to 
one-fourth a cup of melted butter; beat thoroughly and bake 
about twenty-five minutes in a hot, well-buttergd rauffin or 
gem p^n- 

ENTIRE-Vy^fEAT lyiUFFINS 

I cup of -white flour. 31-? teaspoonfuls of bakingrpowder 

1 cup of entife-wJies^t flour- ? egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 1-4 cups of mij^. 

1-2 a tpaspoonful of salt. 3 tablespoonfuls of meltpd butjier. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

1 -4 a cup of butter. 2 cups of flour. 

3-4 a cup of sugar. i cup of com meal. ■ 

2 eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder 
J cup of milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 
Cream the butter, add the sugar, the eggs beaten without 

separating and, alternately, the milk and the rest of the dry 
ingredients sifted together. Bake in a hot buttered muffin 
pan about twenty-five minjftes. 

CORN MEAL PUFFS 

f .Clip of ;nilk. 2 eggs. 

I tajjlef poofi^nl ,pf tjutter. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

1-4 ^, te^spoQnfu) pf sp.lt. 1-4 a cup of floi^r- 

1-2 a cup of commeg,l (scant). 2 teaspoonfuls of baJdng-ppAydpr. 

Scald the milk, add the butter and salt and stir in the corn- 
meal (granulated, yellow meal preferred), stir and let thicken 
a few moments, then cool; add the eggs, beaten without 
sepa.rg,tjng, and the sugar, flour and baking-powder sffted 
together. Turn into a hot, buttered xmi&n pan and hsike 




Bi 1ST(J\ LRt iWN BREAD WITH RAISINS. (See page 413.) 




MUFFINS AND WAFFLES, WITH UTENSILS. (See pages 416 and 420.) 



BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS 417 

fifteen or twenty minutes in a hpt oven. The recipe makes 
OOP dozen delicious cakes, 

TWIN MOUNTAIN MUFFINS 

1-3 a cup of butter. t egg. 

i-4 a cup of sugar. 3-4 a cup of milk. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 cups of flour. 

4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

■ Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then alternately 
the egg beaten and mixed with the milk and the flour sifted 
with the baking-powder. Bake in hot roll pan about twenty- 
five minutes. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

Tq the mixture for Twin Mountain muffins add at lea:st one 
cup of blueberries. 

DATE MUFFINS 

To the butter and sugar creamed together for Twin Moun- 
tain muffins, add one-fourth a pound of dates, chopped fine. 

WHEAT PUFFETS 

1-3 a cup of butter. i cup of milk. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 3 cups of flour. 

1 egg and yolk of another. 4 teaspopnfuls of baking-powder. 

Mix in the same manner as Twin Mountain muffins. 
CREAM SCONES 

2 cups of flour. I -4 a cup of butter. 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

Mix as baking-powder biscuit, adding the beaten eggs with 
the cream. Serve with chocolate for luncheon. A diamond 
shape is attractive for scones. 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS 

2 cups of flour 2 tablespoqnfuls to 1-4 a cup 

I te9,.spoqnful of s^lt- of shortening. 

4 ^easpoqnfuls of bakjng-ppwder, A^PUt i cup of milk or milk 

and water 

Sift together the dry ingredients; with a knife or the 



4i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

tips of the fingers work in the shortening, then add the 
milk and mix with knife to a dough. Toss onto a board 
lightly dredged with flour; knead gently, then pat with the 
rolling-pin into a sheet, cut into rounds and bake about fifteen 
minutes. 

SWEDISH ROLLS 

2 cups of flour. I egg. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3-4 a cup of rich milk (about) . 

31-2 teaspoonfuls of baking- i tablespoonful of sugar. 

powder. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

3 tablespoonfulsof butter. 1-2 a cup of currants or sultanas. 

Mix as cream scones, then roll into a rectangular sheet one- 
fourth an inch thick, longer one way than the other. Spread 
the sheet with softened butter, then sprinkle with the sugar, 
cinnamon, and currants or raisins. Roll up as a jelly roll, 
having the roll long rather than thick. Cut the roll into 
pieces nearly an inch in thickness. Bake on a buttered tin 
about eighteen minutes. Brush over with a little sugar dis- 
solved in milk and return to the oven to brown. 

BLUEBERRY TEA CAKE (EMMA HILL, NEW HAMPSHIRE) 

1-2 a cup of softened butter. 2 cups of flour. 

1 cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

1-2 a cup of thin cream. 3 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

2 eggs beaten without separating. 1 cup of blueberries. 

Mix as any butter cake, when baked cut in squares and 
serve hot with butter for luncheon or tea. 

BREADCRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups of oreadcrumbs. i egg. 

I pini of thick sour milk. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Soak the crumbs in cold water, wring out the water and 
stir with the flour into the milk. Let stand over night, then 
add the egg beaten very light, the salt, the soda, dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of cold water, and more flour or liquid as re- 
quired. 



FLANNEL CAKES 419 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups of hot boiled rice. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 cups of flour. • 2 cups of milk. 

4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

Stir the salt and milk into the hot rice ; let cool, then add 
the yolk of the eggs, well beaten, and the flour sifted with the 
baking-powder, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten until 
dry. For rice waffles omit half a cup of the milk and add one- 
fourth a cup of melted butter. 

CORNMEAL-AND-RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

1-2 cup of com meal. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1-2 a cup of flour. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of cold boiled rice. 2 eggs. 

I cup of rich milk. 

Sift together the dry ingredients and stir in the beaten 
yolks of the eggs mixed with the milk; add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten stiff, at the last. 

CORNMEAL-AND-RICE WAFFLES 

Add to the recipe given above for griddle cakes one-fourth 
a cup of melted butter. 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup of buckwheat flour. t tablespoonful of sugar. 

1-3 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I 1-2 cups of cold water (nearly). 

Sift the dry ingredients, add the water, all at once, and mix 
thoroughly; bake at once on a hot griddle. 

FLANNEL CAKES 

2 1-2 cups of flour. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 cups of sweet milk. 

2 eggs. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder; add the 
yolks of the eggs beaten and mixed with the sweet milk, and, 
lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten dry. 



420 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



KORNLET GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups of flour. 3 teaspoorifvila qf liakilig-pow4er 

2 cups of milk. 2 cups of komlet. 

2 eggs. 1-2 a tpaspQonfi4} of sal^, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Stir the piilk with the beaten yolks of the eggs into the 
-komlet; stc^d the flot;r sifted with the salt and baking-powder, 
£|,nd, lastly, the whites of the eggs be3,ten stiff. 

WAFFLES WITH SOUR MILK 

I 1-4 cups of flour. I cup of thick sour milk. 

1-4 ^ teaspppnfifl of ?alt. 2 eggs. 

1-2 a teaspoonfiil of soda. 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and soda ; add the yolks of the 
eggs beaten and mixed with the sour milk, the melted butter, 
and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten dry. Have both 
sides of the waffle-iron hot and well oiled ; put a taMespoonfyl 
of the mixture in each compartrnent and let down tl^e top: 
when the mixture is baked upon one side, turn the iron to 
brown the other side. Reniove the waffles when cooked with 
a fork. 

RICH WAFFLES 

1 1-2 cups of flotjr. 1-4 a tea.spoonful of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder 2 eggs. 

I cup of sweet thick cream. 

Add the beaten yolks with the crpani to the dry ingredients; 
then the whites, beaten dry, and bake at once. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

Blanch half a cup of rice (page 331); add a teaspoonful of 
salt and three pints of boiling water and let cook until the rice 
is tender. Pass through a sieve and set aside for future use. 
When cold the rice should be in a semi-liquid state. Tb one 
cup and a half of rice add half a teaspoonful of salt, the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, one cup of sifted flour, sifted again with 
two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and, when well 
mixed, the whites of two eggs beaten dry. Bake by spoonfuls 
on a hot griddle. By adding another egg less flour may be 
used. This is an advantage as, griddle cakes being cooked 
quickly, the flour is liable to be under cooked. 



CHAPTER XVI 
Cake and Gake-Making 

" Cake is acceptable at every kind of luncheon; iil fact, cakeS were 
ill ventfed for that tneal.foj: five o'clock tea, weddiilgs and for school- 
boys only."^WYVERN: 

Another form of batter of dOUgh is that to which aftef 
cooking the term cake is applied. Cakes afe niade light ty 
the satiie ihcans as other mixtures of this class and rriay be 
considered iii the Same order as the Various fortns of bf^ad 
have been consideted. 

Thudicum speaks' of cakes as "fotms of Sweetened, flavored, 
and Ornamented bread that signalize an evolution flf cookery 
and, likc' confectionery, or iricludlhg it, are a itleaSure of cul- 
ture." , ' 

There is much of sentimeftt connected With difEetent varie- 
ties of cake, which, apart from any itltrinSie Mierit cotitalned 
therein, commend theril to their SpoflSbrs. Pirbbably the 
cakes of greatest antiquity that afe still in use ate those that 
afe lightened with yeast, as French brioche, Polish baba, 
kugel hopfe of the GerniatiS, ratan cake, claitned by both the 
Prehch and Germans, Eiigllsh Bath buns, ahd Scotch shoft- 
bfead. "The forms in which these cakes appear afe nUmefbils, 
varying with the object for which they are intended. They 
are modified, also, by the addition of fruit, nilts, etc. §Onie- 
tiihes, too, they are served With a rich Syfup, flavofed with 
wine, ill which case they partake mofe of the chafactef of a 
pudding. In fespect to ttianlpulation, theSe cakds taiay be 
classed under tWo heads, Of which bfiodhe and ratan cake 
may be taken as representative. Brioche is paftly flaky, 
and rises in layers ; while the ratan cake rises like sponge cake, 
iii itliilute and uhifofm bubbles. 

421 



42 2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

While these cakes are common abroad, especially in the 
countries to which they owe their origin, outside of our large 
cities they are not well known to housekeepers in the United 
States. In the cities there seems to be an increasing demand 
for this sort of toothsome dainty, yet, because of the time 
required in the preparation of all yeast mixtures, many house- 
keepers do not attempt the production, but depend for supply 
upon some restaurant of noted excellence. Coffee cakes and 
zweiback (the last properly called biscuit, because literally 
twice baked) are the forms of these confections most common. 
Near akin to the ratan cake is the election, or loaf cake, so 
common in the early days of our republic. 

What is sold abroad as biscuit, and here as sponge cake, 
and cakes made with butter, and known as cup and pound 
cakes, are the cakes most in evidence in this country. Of 
these, sponge cake and pound cake, when tradition is followed, 
are lightened simply by the expansion of air incorporated 
into eggs by beating. Cup cakes are lightened partly by this 
method, but principally by the addition of carbon dioxide 
set free from a carbonate by an acid (see page 387). 

No article on cakes would be complete without special 
mention of meringues and petits choux, or cakelets, made of 
choux paste. Of the first Thudichum says: "Meringues are 
classical coiifections, having a good prospect of immortality, 
as they cannot easily be improved, spoiled, or altered. They 
have probably a history of more than a thousand years. " 
Swedish meringues, in which starch supplies the place of a 
part of the egg whites, are a confection that may be classed 
with sponge cake. Petits choux may be regarded as the con- 
necting link between cake and pastry ;■ they afford grounds for 
considering, as do the French, the matter of cakes as a part 
of the general subject of pastry. These cakes are made of a 
batter previously boiled, and eggs; the hollow centres, when 
baked, are filled with sweetened and flavored cream or a cus- 
tard mixture. 

PRELIMINARIES 

Before beginning to mix cake have everything needed at 
hand, and in such condition that the ingredients can be put 
together quickly; i.e. — 



THE FIRE 



423 



1. Measure or weigh out the exact quantities of the different 
ingredients to be used. Weight is preferable to measure, 
especially in the case of butter. 

2. Sift the flour before measuring, and sift again with the 
baking-powder, or soda and cream-of-tartar. 

3. Pulverize and sift soda before measuring, and add 
always to the flour; baking-powder is better sifted, but it 
may be made light by working with a spoon. 

4. To cream butter successfully, it should be at about the 
temperature of the living rtjom (70° Fahr.). If too cold, it 
may stand a short time in the mixing bowl after that has been 
heated slightly with warm water and wiped dry. 

5. Have the pans (if the ordinary pan be used) buttered 
and floured, or lined with paper, and the paper buttered. 

6. Break the eggs, one by one, over a cup, separating the 
whites from yolks when desired. Beat the yolks, but let the 
whites stand unbeaten in a cool place until the cake is nearly 
mixed. 

7. When fruit is used, cut citron in slices, and then in nar- 
row strips ; seed raisins, and cut them in pieces ; remove stems 
from sultanas; wash currants on a coarse sieve, then dry. 
Fruit to be mixed through a cake may be added to the butter 
and sugar creamed together, without dredging with flour; 
in layers, dredge lightly with flour, then, when the cake is 
mixed, sprinkle in between layers of cake mixture. 

THE FIRE 

Electricity, gas, or oil, the heat from all of which may be 
regulated to a nicety, are ideal fuels for cake baking; and in 
no branch of cooking is such nice adjustment of heat demanded 
as in the baking of pastry and cake. Even at the present 
prices, where one is to bake several cakes in the morning 
(as do consignors to industrial unions, etc.) electricity or gas 
will be found more economical than coal. If the fuel be wood 
or coal, the fire should be in such condition that it may be 
regulated easily, and last through the baking without being 
replenished; i.e., donot attempt to bake a delicate cake mix- 
ture with a freshly-built coal fire, or with a fire from which 
the life has largely died out. 



424 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



TEMPERATURE OF THE OVEN 

Layer cakes and small cakes require a hotter oven thah loaf 
cake. So cakes made with baking-poWdfer call for a higher 
temperature (the cai-bon dioxide is evolved more quickly) 
than do cakeS made of cream-of -tartar and soda, lemon juice 
and soda, or ihdlasses and soda. 

Biscuit, or sponge cake, and pound cakCj will bake at a 
lower temperature than cake lightened with carbon dioxide. 

Alsbj cakes made rich with yolks of eggs requite less heat 
than cakes made with whites of eggs; i.e.j an Oven shbtild be 
hotter for an angel cake than for a yellow form of sponge 
cake (yoiks of eggs are rich itl fat, heiice they burii quickly). 

Cake contaitlirig fruit should be baked in a slow oVen. 

UTENSILS 

Earthen bowls for mixing the ingredietits and beatiilg eggs, 
a slitted wooden spoon, an ordinary-sized sieve for flour, a 
small sieve for soda, etc., a Dover egg-beaterj an egg-whisk, 
pastry-bag, and tubes for lady-fingers, eclairs ^ and frostiiig, 
a stliall saucepan for boiling sugat, scales, measuring-cups, and 
a Variety Of baking-tins, are the most important utensils 
needed for work in this branch of the culinary art. 

MATERIALS 

Cake has come to be classed with- confectionery, and to be 
eaten only occasionally as a luxury. Thus, in its preparation, 
the choicest tnaterials are detriatided, — the best flour and 
butter, fine granulated sugar, fresh eggs, and choice fruits, 
niits and flavorings. The miller, by skilful devices, has evolved 
a floUr especially adapted to produce a. light, tender, delicate 
cake; when this is hot available, the choicest pastry flour 
should be selected. Bread flour is soirietimes used, but, as it, 
contaift^ a large quantity, comparatively, Of gluten, it gives, 
when used with other leavening agents than yeast, a thick, 
compact cake. The tecipes are written for pastry flour, save 
in yeast mixtures, and it may be necessary to increase or 
dimitiish, slightly, the quatitity, as the thickening property 




CAKE TINS— SPONGE, LEMON QUEEN, LAYE <, ETC, 



PILLING THE PANS 425 

of flour varies ; when bread flour is used with baking-powder, 
the quantity given should be diminished by two level table- 
spoonfuls for each cup. 

Spices should be sifted with the flOur. 

Fine granulated sugar gives the best resultSj poWdBfed sugaf 
making a close dry cake, and coarse granulatfed sug&r a vety 
coarse-grained cake. 

If cream-of-tartar and soda can be accurately meSsUfed, 
these will, in general, give more perfect results than baking- 
powder. The novice, however, will succeed better with the. 
baking-powder. A pound cake is usually improved by the 
addition of a stnall quantity of baking-powder. Lemon 
juice and soda produce a cake of finSj close textiife, but these 
are not adapted to lightening plain cakes. 

LINING THE PANS 

A light-weight wrapping-paper is best adapted to this pur- 
pose. To line a rectangular pan, invert, spread paper upon 
the bottom, having one side even with one of the longer edges 
of the bottomj crease the paper upon the opposite edge, fold 
in the crease, andj with a sharp knife, cut at the fold. Put in 
the pan, press down smoothly, letting the ends hang over 
the ends of the pan. Have ready a dish of clarified butter 
(melt the butter, and let stand a few moments to "settle," 
then skim off the top, leaving the salt and sediment in the 
bottom), and with butter-bfush spread the unpapered sides 
of the tin and the paper with butter. Patented tins, from 
which cake can be easily removed, do not need lining. Tins 
may also be buttered thoroughly, and, just before the cake 
is placed in theiil, sprinkled With fldur. After sprinkling 
with flour, invert and give the tin a sharp rdp to remove 
superflous flour. 

FILLING THE PANS 

That the cake, when baked, may fill the pan, let the un- 
cooked mixture fill two-thirds of the spate. Always diraW the 
mixture away from the Centre towards the Coriiers 6t edges, 
andj when baked, other conditions being favorable, the top will 
be level. 



426 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CAKE WITH YEAST 

In mixing cakes lightened with yeast observe the same 
points considered essential to success in bread-making. On 
account of the tendency of sugar, butter, and eggs to retard 
fermentation, it is advisable to add these either to a light 
sponge or to a light bread dough. Explicit directions will 
be given under the several recipes. 

MIXING SPONGE CAKE 

As the lightness of sponge cake depends entirely upon the 
air incorporated into the eggs, of which it is largely composed, 
and the expansion of this air in baking, great care must be 
taken first,' to secure the incorporation of air in the mixture, 
and then to regulate the baking so as to retain the same; 
i.e., never stir a sponge cake mixture; let the heat be such that 
the enclosed air can be gradually heated, and the cell walls 
fixed when the air becomes fully expanded. Beat the yolks 
with an egg-beater until very light and thick; add the sugar 
gradually, beating continuously, then add the flavoring. Beat 
the whites until stiff and dry; cut and fold part of the whites 
into the yolks and sugar, then cut and fold in part of the flour; 
'now, in the same order, the remaining whites and flour. If 
preferred, add the whites, then the flour entire. Bake in an 
unbuttered pan, made for the purpose, and let the cake stand 
in the inverted pan to cool.> Thus suspended, as it were, 
from the floor of the pan, the cake will be much lighter, than 
when it is left to hold up its own weight while cooling. 

MIXING BUTTER CAKES 

Cream the butter, using an earthen bowl and a wooden spoon 
to avoid discoloring the ingredients ; add the sugar gradually, 
beating constantly; add yolks of eggs beaten until thick and 
light colored. If more sugar is to be used than can be creamed 
easily with* the butter, add it to the yolks and with them, 
to the rest of the sugar and butter; then add the liquid, fol- 
lowed by the flour and leavening ingredients sifted together, 
or add the liquid and flour alternately. Beat the mixture 



BRIOCHE 427 

thoroughly to secure a fine grain, then beat in, lightly, the 
whites of the eggs beaten dry. 

BAKING 

Cakes are baked in from fifteen minutes to three or four 
hours. The heat of the oven should be moderate at first, 
that the mixture, being evenly heated, may rise throughout. 
If the oven be too hot at first, the cake will crust or brown 
over before it becomes sufficiently light; then the mixture in 
rising will break through the weakest place (usually the 
centre) and run over the surface. Mrs. Lincoln gives the 
following excellent directions for baking cake: "Divide the 
time required into quarters. During the first quarter, the 
heating is not manifested in appearance except by the rising; 
during the second the cake should continue to rise, and begin 
to brown ; then it should become all over a rich golden brown, 
and, in the last quarter, settle a little, brown in the cracks, 
and shrink from the pan. " 

Sometimes, especially in the oven of a coal or wood range; 
it seems necessary to move a cake. In the "first quarter," 
or early in the second, it may be moved very gently; after 
this screen with tin baking-sheets or paper ; for, when a cake 
has reached its full height, and the cells have not become 
fixed by the heat, the slight jar of moving breaks down the 
cells, and no carbon dioxide remains by which other cells may 
be evolved, and the cake is "heavy." If desired, the oven 
door may be opened a reasonable number of times, providing 
• it be done without jarring the cake. 

Cakes, with the exception, perhaps, of pound cake, are 
fully baked when they shrink from the pan, and settle to a 
level. All cakes are well done, when they make only a slight 
singing noise, or when the surface rebounds at once on being 
pressed with the finger. 

BRIOCHE ^ 

I pound of flour (4 cups). lo ounces of butter (i 1-4 cups). 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 7 eggs. 

I tablespoonf ul of sugar. i cake of compressed yeast. 

1-4 a cup of warm water. 



428 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Soften the yeast cake iil the water and stir in flour to make 
a stiff dough; knead thoroughly, then drop into a smdll sauce- 
pan of warm water and let stand in a temperature of 70° Fahr. 
until doubled in bulk. Put the rest of the pound of flour into 
a mixing boWl, ddd the salt, sugar, the butter, softetlfed, but not 
melted, and four of the eggs. Mi* to A paSte, then bedt 
thbrbughly With the hdttd, adding eggs, one at a time, until 
seVfen in all have beeh tlsed; beat until smooth. Whert the 
ball of sponge is light (in fifteen to thirty minutes), remove 
frotn the water with a skimmer, and place in the centre of the 
egg mixture, fdld the egg mixture over the sponge and Con- 
tinuing the folding until the two are thoroughly blended; feet 
aside in a temperature rtbt higher than 70° Fahr. until doubled 
in bulk; turn onto a board dredged With floui-, pat out and 
fold over several times; let rise a second time, then repeat 
the ptOc^ss and set aside on the ice to become thoroughly 
chilled. As th6 dbUgh is rich and not very firm unless cHilledj 
it needs stand some hours, even over night, if it is to be shaped 

readily. 

COFFEE ROLLS FROM BRIOCHE 

Roll chilled brioche into a sheet abOtit onfe-foUrth an inch 
thick (a marble slab or a magic cover iS an aid), bruSh Over 
very lightly with softened butter, then fold from the sides 
towards the centre, so as to make three layetS. Cut strips 
three-fourths an inch wide; take each separately, and twist 
from the ends iii Opposite directions, and with each form a 
circle on the baking-sheet, but, instead of having the ends 
meet, bring them side by side up to the centre Of the fcurve. 
Arrange the rolls close together irt the baking-pan, and btush 
over with yolk of egg, beaten and diluted With milk; let rise, 
and bake abotit twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven; 
let cool, then brush Over with cofifeetioner's sugar, moistened 
with boiling water to spread. 

■* BRIOCHE BUNS 

Shape the chilled brioche into balls the size of an egg; put 
them close together in a buttered pan, and press into the 
top of each a slice of citron or a seeded raisin. "When risen 



BRIOCHES ST, MARK 439 

a little more than double in bulk, brush over with sugar dis- 
solved in a little milk and bake about twenty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. Brush over a second time -with sugar 
and milk and sprinkle with loaf sugar pounded into small 
bits; let stand in the oven until well glazed. 

PIIIOCHE WITH HEAD 

Divide the chilled brioche into two pieces, one a fourth as 
large as the other. Shape the larger piece into a round, and, 
\^th the rolling-pin, flatten evenly to fit the baking-pan (a 
round sponge-cake pan). Make an open place in the centre, 
and gash the dough in four or five places on the inner edge, 
after placing it in the buttered pan ; form the small piece into 
a ball, then, with the floured hand, roll on the board, giving 
it the shape of a pear; set the pointed end in the centre of the 
pan, and brush over the whole with yolk of egg beaten with 
a little milk; when light bake about fifty minutes in a slow 
oven; then brush over with sugar dissolved in a little milk. 
Serve hot or cold, with coffee for breakfast. Break in portions 
with the fingers or a silver fork. Or serve hot with a rich 
syrup flavored with rum or wipe, or with a fruit compote, for 
the sweet dish at luncheon or dinner. 

BRIOCHES ST. MARK 

Fill twelve well-buttered individual timbale moulds two- 
thirds full with brioche pa-ste. When risen n^^ply to 6M the 
moulds, bake in a slow oven. Rernove from the ipoulds, 
and, when cold, trim unifprmly to size of the moulds, and 
remove the centre of each, leaving a thin shell. Pour over 
the inside a highly flavored syrup ; drain, and fill with whipped 
cream or a p^stard filling; brush over the ontside -vyith apricot 
marnialadg, and strew with pistachios ^pd almonds, blp.nched 
and chopped fine. Ornament the top of each tjmbale with a 
rosette formed of a split cherry surrounded by halves of pis- 
tachios. Dress these on a plate in a circle, filling the centre 
of the circle with halved peaches cooked in syrup. Serve w^th 
or without whipped cream or a custard sauce. 



430 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BABA WITH FRUIT 

1 pound of flour (4 cups) . i cake of compressed yeast. 

10 ounces of butter (i 1-4 cups) . 1-2 a cup of scalded milk. 

I tablespoonful of granulated sugar. 8 eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. i cup of fruit. 

Make a sponge of the yeast, milk and a little of the flout 
and set aside to become light. Put the rest of the flour into 
a mixing-bowl, add the butter, softened, but not melted, sugar, 
salt, and three eggs, and work the whole together until smooth, 
then add the rest of the eggs, one at a time, and continue beat- 
ing until all are added and the mixture is very smooth. When 
the sppnge is light, add to the egg mixture, beating (not fold- 
ing as in brioche) until again smooth; then add the fruit, 
sultanas or seeded raisins cut in small pieces, citron, candied 
cherries or other fruit, cut in bits, or cleaned currants. Butter 
a baba mould and half fill with the mixture. Let rise nearly 
to the top of the mould, then bake from forty to fifty minutes. 
Serve hot on a folded napkin. Serve at the same time an 
apricot or similar sauce. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Boil one cup of sugar, half a cup of 'water, half a cup of 
apricot jam, and the juice of two lemons five minutes, strain, 
and serve. 

SAVARIN (MODIFIED BABA) 

I pound of flour. S eggs. 

I cake of compressed yeast. 3-4 a cup of scalded milk. 

1-4 a cup of scalded milk. 3-4 a pound of butter. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 2 ounces of candied orange peel, 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. cut fine. 

Make a sponge of the milk, the yeast, and a little flour, and 
when light add the rest of the milk, two eggs, salt, butter, 
and the rest of the flour; beat with a perforated spoon until 
light, then add the rest of the eggs, one at a time, and beat 
until very smooth; add the orange peel meanwhile. Butter a 
fluted cylinder mould, sprinkle with chopped almonds, and 
half fill with the paste. When the paste has risen to the top 



HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE 431 

of the mould, bake in a moderate, oven. When baked turn 
from the mould, let cool twenty minutes, then pour over a 
rich syrup, flavored to taste, and serve as a luncheon or dinner 
sweet. 

BATH BUNS 
I pound of flour (4 cups) . 3-4 a cup of softened butter. • 

1 cake of compressed yeast. 1-43 teaspoonful of salt. 
1-2 a cup of lukewarm milk or water. Grating of lemon rind. 
1-2 a cup of sugar. 4 eggs. 

Soften the yeast in the liquid and add flour to make a sponge ; 
when light add the other ingredients, mix thoroughly, and^ 
knead half an hour, adding more flour if needed, but keeping 
the mixture quite soft. When risen to double in bulk, shape 
into balls and finish as brioche buns. 

THANKSGIVING CAKE (COLONIAL) 

2 cups of bread dough. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
1-2 a cup of butter. 1-2 a teaspoonful of mace. 

2 cups of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

2 eggs. I cup of seeded raisins. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cloves. 1-4 a cup of silced citron. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

Take the dough, when it is ready for shaping into loaves, 
add the other ingredients and mix and beat with the hand or 
hands as in making brioche. The beating is not done with 
the side of the hand, but with the tips of the fingers and 
directly towards the body. Turn into a tube cake pan, and 
when light (it should not quite double in bulk), bake in an 
oven at a temperature a little lower than for bread. When 
cold pour a maple sugar frosting over the cake, and decora,te 
with pecan or hickory nuts and ornamental frosting. This 
cake is particularly good made of entire-wheat bread dough. 

HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE (RECIPE 100 YEARS OLD) 

S pouaids of dried and sifted flour. Four eggs. 

2 pounds of butter. A gill of wine and a gill of brandy. 

2 pounds of sugar. Half an ounce of nutmegs, and 

3 gills of distillery yeast, or twice two pounds of fruit. 

the quantity of home-made A quart of milk, 
yeast. 



432 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Rub the buttpr very fine into the flour; add half the sugar, 
then yeast, then half the milk, scalded and pooled to luke- 
warni, ^hpti the eggs well beaten, the wine and the remainder 
of the milk. Beat well in the morning, adding the brandy, 
the sugar and the spice. Let rise three or four hours, till Very 
•light. When the wood is put into the oven, put the cake in 
buttered pans, also the fruit as directed previously. If a 
richer cake is wanted, add a pound of citron. 

StECTION CAKE (POMFRPT COOKERY) 

2 1-2 pounds of buttef. i 1-2 nutipegg, grated. 

2 1-2 poi^pds of sugar. 1-23, te^spoonful of cinnamon. 

4 pounds pf flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

7 eggs. I cup of yeast (2 cakes of com- 
1 quart of milk. pressed yeast and one cup of 

, water). ■ 

Best the butter and sugar to a creapi. Divide into two 
equal parts and rub one part thoroughly into the flour. Now 
mix with the milk, adding the yeast, and set to rise in a warm 
place. When very light add the rest of the butter and sugar, 
the eggs and the spice, and let rise again. When well raised, 
mix the soda with half a cup of dry flour, and sift into the 
dough. Beat the cake until it is smooth and creamy. Stir in 
stoned raisins, as many as are desired, and place in the baking- 
pans. When again light bake an hour or longer. A quick 
and hard baking destroys the delicacy of the cake. Let stand 
in the tins half an hour after these are taken from the oven, 
then ice the tops and sides of the loaves. This recipe makes 
seven large loaves. 

GERMAN APPLE CAKE 

RoU a sm?il\ piece of dough made ^s for zweibapl? (see page 
408) half an inch thick, and fit into a shallow rectangular 
pan. Lay on this apples or peaches peeled, cored and cut 
in eighths, and bestrew with sugar mixed with cinnamon. Let 
rise and bake in a quick oven. Serve at breakfast or luncheon 
with sugar and cream or butter. Rub over the fruit with the 
cut side of a lemon, to avoid discoloring, or wait until the 
dough is light before putting the fruit in place. 



GENERAL FORMULA FOR SPONGE CAKE 433 

BERLIN PANCAKES 

Shape zweiback dough into balls, flatten the balls, and put 
a spoonful of jam into the centre of each; bring up the edges 
and pinch together, forming a ball again. Lay on a floured 
board smooth side up and let rise until nearly doubled in size, 
then fry in hot fat, drain and dust with sugar and cinnamon 
mixed. Serve with coffee at breakfast, or cocoa at luncheon. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS (MRS. MCELAVEY) 

3 cups of bread dough. 2 eggs. 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of cinnamon or 

I cup of sugar. nutmeg. 

To the dough ready for shaping in loaves add the other 
ingredients and mix thoroughly with the hand. Let rise until 
doubled in bulk, then roll into a thin sheet and cut into rings. 
Let stand until doubled in bulk, then fry in deep fat (see page 
12). Drain on soft paper, and roll in sifted powdered sugar. 

RECIPES FOR SPONGE OR SAVOY CAKE (BISCUIT DE 

SAVOIE) 

GENERAL FORMULA FOR SPONGE CAKE 

The weight of the eggs in sugar and half the weight, in flour 
is the usual formula for the ordinary sponge loaf. In small 
cakes the number of eggs may be increased to twelve, sixteen 
or even twenty, to a pound of sugar and half a pound of flour. 
The grated rind and juice of one lemon complete the list of 
ingredients used to a pound of sugar. The Portuguese apply 
the name pan -four (golden bread), to the sponge cake, in the 
making of which they are said to excel. In serving sponge 
cake, cut through the outer crust only, then break apart with 
the fingers or a fork. "When well baked sponge cake is never 
dark in color. 

SPONGE CAKE (RECIPE USED IN ONE FAMILY FOR 
THREE GENERATIONS) 

Take the weight of eight eggs in sugar, one-half the weight 
of the eggs in flour, sifting the flour several times before 
weighing. Set the sugar and flour near the flre to keep warm. 



434 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Beat the yolks of the eggs twenty-five minutes, then beat the 
whites until they are perfectly stiff; add the sugar to the yolks, 
beating, not stirring in, then add the whites, and, lastly, sift in 
the flour. Add the juice of one lemon and bake in a good 
oven twenty-five minutes. To adapt to the present time, 
use an egg-beater and thus shorten the time of beating, and 
add the lemon juice to the yolks and sugar. 

SPONGE CAKE (MEASURE BY CUPS) 

5 eggs ( I cup of eggs when Grated rind and juice of half 

broken) . lemon. 

I cup of sugar. ' i cup of flour. 

See Mixing Sponge Cake, page 426. 

IDEAL SPONGE CAKE (ELEANOR S M&KENZIE) 

4 eggs. Grated rind of half a lemon or 
1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. orange. 

I cup of fine granulated sugar. i tablespoonful of orange or lemon 
3-4 a cup of flour. juice. 

Beat the whites of the eggs with salt until dry, then beat in 
gradually one-half the sugar. Beat the yolks the same length 
of time as the whites (by the clock), then gradually beat in 
the other half-cup of sugar; add the grated rind and juice, 
then beat the two together. Now sprinkle the flour in, little 
by little, folding it under with a perforated spoon. Do not 
beat after any of the flour is added. Bake from twenty to 
forty minutes, according to the shape of the pan. 

"BOILED" SPONGE CAKE 

1 cup of sugar. The grated rind and juice of half a 

1-2 a cup of water. lemon. 

The yolks of five eggs. i cup of flour. 

The whites of five eggs. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread stage, and pour in a 
fine stream on to the yolks of the eggs, beaten until thick and 
lemon-colored, beating constantly some time, then set dish 
into cold water and continue beating until the mixture is 
cold, adding while beating the lemon juice and rind. When 
cold fold in half the whites of eggs, beaten dry, and the flour, 



CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 435 

then the rest of the egg whites. Bake in a tube pan about 
fifty minutes, and let cool in the inverted pan. This is, in 
reality, the same cake as the "sponge cake (measure by 
cups), " the water -with which the sugar is boiled being lost in 
the boiling process. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

The whites of seven eggs. i cup of sugar (fine granulated) . 

The yolks of five eggs. i teaspoonful of orange extract. 

1-3 a teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 2-3 a cup of flour. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light colored and thick; 
beat the whites until foamy, add the cream-of-tartar and beat 
until dry; beat the sugar into the whites, then beat in the 
yolks ; add the extract and fold in the flour. Bake in an un- 
buffered tube pan from thirty-five to fifty minutes. 

ANGEL CAKE 

I cup of whites of eggs. i cup of flour. 

(about 10 eggs). 1-2- a teaspoonful of cream-of- 

I cup of sugar. tartar. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until foamy; add the cream-of- 
tartar and beat until dry; beat in the sugar gradually using a 
cake spoon, add the extract, then fold in the flour; bake in a 
tube pan unbuffered with a stronger heat than for yellow 
sponge cake. Thirty to fifty minutes will be needed according 
to the depth of the pan. 

COCOANUT CAKE (MRS. MATTHEWS, OHIO) 

Whites of eight eggs. i 1-2 cups of flour. 

I 1-4 cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix as an angel cake. Bake in layers. Make a frosting 
with the whites of five eggs, and two level tablespoonfuls of 
sugar for each egg. Put fresh grated cocoanut between the 
layers, and over the outside. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 

Add to the beaten eggs and sugar of a sponge cake mixture 



436 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

made with yolks of eggs, two tablespoonfiils of grated choc- 
olate, melted over hot water, and finish as any sponge cake. 
Use half a teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar with the whites of 
the eggs and flavor with vanilla. 

MOCHA CAKE 

Bake a sponge-cake mixture in two round layer cake pans. 
Prepare a mocha cream and spread smoothly between the 
layers and upon the outside of the cake. Score the cake in 
pieces for serving. Pipe with the remainder of the cream 
(see Butter Icing, Chapter XVII). 

LADY-FINGERS (NAPLES BISCUIT) 

6 eggs. I cup of flour. 

I 1-4 cups of poWdered sugar. A grating of lemon or orange rind. 
The juice of half a lemon. 

Mix according to formula. Press the mixture through a 
tube on to a baking-sheet, covered with paper, in portions an 
inch wide and five inches long. Dust with powdered sugar, 
and bake from ten to fifteen minutes, without browning. 
Remove from the paper, brush over the fiat surface of one 
biscuit with white of egg, and press the underside of a second 
biscuit upon the first. 

LADY-FINGERS (GOUFFE) 

6 eggs. I 1-4 cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. Flavoring. 

LADY-FINGERS (GALLIER) 

4 eggs. I cup of flour. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. Flavoring. 

LADY-FINGERS 

6 whole eggs. i cup of sugar. 

3 yolks additional. i cup of flour. 

Flavoring. 

AFRICANS, OR OTHELLOS 

Press the lady-finger mixture on to the paper in rounds an 
inch and a half in diameter. When baked, spread the flat 




HOLLOW SPONGE CAKE. 

Filled with whipped cream, covered with snft fmstinj? and 

decorated with candied fruit and lady finders. 




BIRTHDAY CAKE. 

Decorated with ornamental fr(jsting, small candies and candles. 




FINGER BISCUIT WITH PISTACHIOS, OTHELLOS. 

Pound cake cut in diamonds and crescents, iced and decorated with cherries 

and angelica. (See pages 436 and 437) 



SPONGE CAKE WITH COLD WATER 437 

surface of half the biscuits with jam or jelly and cover with the 
remaining biscuits. Dip in chocolate fondant, or frosting, 
and dry on oiled paper. 

FINGER BISCUIT WITH PISTACHIOS 

Press the biscuit paste on to the paper in oval-shaped strips, 
one and three-fourths inches long by three-fourths an inch 
wide, dust with fine granulated sugar, and, when baked, cover 
the tops with Italian meringue (boiled frosting), and sprinkle 
with chopped pistachios. Or strew the biscuits before baking 
with fine-chopped almonds mixed with sugar, and the Italian 
meringue may be omitted. 

SWEDISH MERINGUE 

The whites of five eggs. i - 2 a cup of flour. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 

3-4 a cup of sug&r (scant) . tract. 

Prepare as angel cake, bake in two shallow pans, when 
cooled, put together with the following filling and decorate 
with candied fruit. 

FILLING 

1 pint of milk. A few grains of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i cup of shredded cocoanut. 

3 yolks of eggs. Jxiiceof 1-2 alemon. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. Grated rind of half an orange. 

Stir the flour and salt with milk to pour and cook in the, 
milk scalded over hot water; let cook ten minutes, then add 
the yolks beaten with the sugar and the orange rind ; stir until 
the egg is slightly cooked, then remove, add the cocoanut and 
when cold the lemon juice.' 

SPONGE CAKE WITH COLD WATER 

g eggs. I cup (less 2 tablespoonfuls) of cold 

3 cups of sugar. water. 

The grated rind and juice 3 cups of flour. 

of half a lemon. i teaspoonful of soda. 

4 teaspoonfuls (level) of cream-of-tartar. 

Beat the eggs, without separating, until very thick, add the 



438 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sugar gradually, beating all the time, then the grated rind, 
juice, and water, alternately, with the flour, cream-of-tartar, 
and soda. Bake in two long narrow sponge cake pans. 

ORANGE CAKE (MRS. ELLIOT RUSSEL, BOSTON) 

The yolks of five eggs. 2 cups of powdered sugar. 

The whites of four eggs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

2 cups of flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

Beat the yolks until light colored and thick; add the sugar 
gradually, then the whites of the eggs and the flour sifted with 
the soda and . cream-of-tartar. Bake in two pans 11^x7 J 
inches. Finish with Royal icing made with orange juice. 
(Page 461.) 

SWEDISH SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs. 1-4 teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of sugar. 1-4 teaspoonful of soda. 

3-4 teaspoonful of cream-of- 1-2 cup of potato flour. 

tartar (scant measure). 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. 

Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separ-ately. Beat 
the sugar into the yolks, add the flour sifted with the cream- 
of -tarter, soda and salt, then the extract and egg whites. 
Bake about 40 minutes. This makes a very tender sponge 
cake. 

RECIPES FOR CAKE MADE WITH BUTTER 

Prepare in the usual manner. (See Mixing Butter Cakes, 
.page 426). 

POUND CAKE 

I 1-2 pounds of butter. 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

I 1-2 pounds of sugar. -powder. 

I o eggs. I cup of milk (scant) . 

I 1-2 pounds of flour. Sliced citron. 

POUND CAKE BY MEASURE (ANN FLEURY, STOCKBRIDGE 
COOK IN SAME FAMILY 25 YEARS) 

I cup of butter. 4 eggs. 

1 1-2 cups of sugar (powdered). 1-2 a cup of milk. 

2 cups of flour. I level teaspoonful of baking- 

powder. 



ENTIRE WHEAt FRUIT CAKE 439 

WHITE POUND CAKE 

1 cup of butter. The whites of 8 eggs. 

1 cup of sugar. i level teaspoonful of baking- 

2 cups of flour. powder. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

1-2 a cup of butter. i teaspoonful of baking powder. 

I cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of almond ex- 
The whites of five eggs. tract. 

I 3-4 cups of flour. 1-2 a pound of blanched almonds. 

3-4 a pound of cocoanut. 3-4 a pound of citron. 
Bake in a loaf and cover with a boiled icing. Mix as usual, 
adding the fruit last. 

FRUIT CAKE (AUNT REBECCA) 

3-4 a pound of butter. 1-3 a cup of molasses. 

3-4 a pound of sugar. 11-2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. 

3-4 a pound of flour. 1 teaspoonful of mace. 

6 eggs. I teaspoonful of cloves. 

I 1-2 pounds of raisins. 1-2 a teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

I 1-2 pounds of currants. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

.1-2 a pound of citron. 1-4 a cup of milk or cold cofiee. 

LOAF CAKE (MISS MINNA TRAIN, BOSTON) 

1 cup of butter. i cup of cold water. 

2 cups of sugar, 11-2 cups of chopped raisins. 

3 cups of flour. 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

4 eggs. powder. 

I 1-2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, i nutmeg, grated. 

ENTIRE WHEAT FRUIT CAKE (CHARLOTTE J. WILLS, 

BOSTON) 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-3 a cup of pastry flour. 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. 2 cups of entire wheat flour. 

I cup of seeded raisins. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

I egg beaten without separating, i 1-2 teaspoonfuls of mixed spices. 
I cup of sour milk. 

Add the raisins (currants or nuts may be substituted) to the 
butter and sugar creamed together, then the egg and. Talter- 
liately, the flour sifted with the soda and spices and the sour 
milk. Turn the mixture into small tins — it will take eighteen 



440 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

— and dredge the tops with granulated sugar. Bake about 
twenty-five minutes. 

FRUIT CAKE (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY, BOSTON) 

1 povind of butter. . i teaspoonfill of allspice. 

I pound of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cloves. 

I pound of flour. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

10 eggs. 1-2 a teaspoonfvd of mace. 

I 1-2 pounds of currants. The juice and grated rind of one 

T 1-2 pounds of raisins. orange. 

3-4 a pound of citron. The juice and grated rind of one 

I nutmeg. lemon. 

IMPERIAL CAKE 

1-2 a pound of butter, (i cup) 1-2 a pound of raisins. 

1-2 a pound of sugar, (i cup) 1-2 a cup of walnut meats. 

The grated rind and juice of half 1-2 a pound of flour. 

a lemon. 1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 

1-2 a cup of citron. 5 eggs. 

Add the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, before the flour, 
on account of the absence of liquid to moisten. Reserve a 
little of the flour for dredging the fruit. Seed the raisins, 
cut the citron fine and chop' the nuts, and add the soda with 
the flour. Bake in a tube pan nearly an hour and a half. 

FRUIT CAKE (MRS. WM. B. SEWALL) 

I pound of m.oist brown sugar. i teaspoonful of allspice. 

I pound of butter, (scant) . i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

8 eggs. 2 pounds of raisins. 

I pound of flour. 2 pounds of currants. 

1 cup of molasses. 1-2 a pound of citron. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. i level teaspoonful of soda. 
I teaspoonful of cloves. 1 sherry glass of brandy. 

2 glasses of sherry. 

Mix as usual; at the last sift the soda into the molasses 
heated over the fire, and while foaming stir into the other 
ingredients. Bake in two bread pans between three and four 
hours. 



WHITE CAKE 441 

LINCOLN CAKE (JOSEPHINE J. KIMBALL, CANTON, OHIO) 

I pound of butter. i pound of raisins. 

I 1-2 pounds of brown sugar. i pound of currants. 

I 3-4 pounds of flour. 1-4 a pound of citron. 

T pint of sweet milk. 1-2 a pound of blanched almonds. 

I dessert spoonful of soda. i nutmeg. 

6 eggs. I teaspoonful of cloves. 
I tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

Mix in the usual manner. The baking is simplified and 
shortened by using two pans. This cake was a great favorite 
in Canton in 1861 and the years immediately following. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE (MRS. WM. B. SEW ALL, BOSTON) 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. 2 cups of flour. 

1-2 a cup of butter. 2 teaspoorifuls of baking-powder. 

3-4 a cup of milk. The whites of four eggs. 

I cup of chopped nut meats. 

Mix in the usual manner, reserving part of the nuts to 
sprinkle on the top of the cake when it is in the pan. Bake 
in a loaf in a moderate oven about an hour. 
NUT-AND-RAISIN CAKE (MARIA W. HOWARD, BOSTON) 

1-2 a cup of butter. 2 1-2 teaspoonfuls of baking- 

I cup of sugar. powder. 

1 - 2 a cup of seeded and chopped 2 squares of melted chocolate. 

raisins. ^'^ ^ '^^P °^ walnut meats cut in 

2 ego-s. small pieces. 

I - 2 a cup of milk. i "4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1 r- 7 cups of flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Add the chopped raising to the butter and sugar, creamed 
as usual, and the melted chocolate and nutmeats at the last. 
Bake about three-fourths an hour. Frost with boiled icing 
and decorate with nuts and raisins. 

W^HITE CAKE (MRS. HENDERSON) 
3-4 a cup of butter. i i-4 cups of fine granulated sugar. 

2 cups of flour. The grated rind and juice of half a 
The whites of six eggs. lemon. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 



442 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Beat the butter to a cream; add gradually the flour into 
which the soda has been sifted and beat to a smooth paste. 
Beat the whites of the eggs dry, using a whisk so as to make 
them as light as possible ; whisk in the sugar (powdered sugar 
is designated by Mrs. Henderson, but fine granulated gives 
much better results), then combine the two mixtures, by beat- 
ing the sugar and egg very gradually into the butter and flour. 
Add the lemon juice last and beat until smooth. Put into 
an oven of very moderate heat. Bake half an hour or longer, 
according to the shape of the pan. Cover with an icing 
flavored with lemon. 

BRIDE'S CAKE 

I cup of butter. 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

1 cup of sugar. powder. 

The whites of eight eggs. i teaspoonful of lemon or rose ex- 

2 cups of flour. tract, or 1-2 a teaspoonful of 

almond extract. 

Add part of the whites of eggs, beaten stiff, to the butter 
and sugar creamed together, then the flour sifted with the 
baking-powder, the extract, and the remainder of the eggs. 
Bake in a round pan with tube in the centre. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. i 1-2 cups of flour. 

2 eggs. 2 I -2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

3 ounces of chocolate. powder. 

I teaspoonful of cinnamon. i teaspoonful of vanilla extrac',. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, and beat at once into 
the butter and sugar creamed together and beaten with the 
yolks of the eggs; add the milk, alternately, with the flour 
sifted with the cinnamon and baking powder, and, lastly, 
the vanilla and whites of eggs. Bake in a sheet about forty 
minutes. The pointer on the "heat-indicator" should 
not quite reach the twelve o'clock mark. Cover with a 
boiled frosting. 



ICE CREAM CAKE 443 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

1-2 a cup of butter. 21-3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

4 eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I cup of milk. I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

1-2 a cup of grated chocolate (2 oz.). 

Cream the butter with one cup of the sugar; add the other 
cup of sugar to the beaten yolks and combine the two ; add the 
milk alternately with the flour, sifted with the cinnamon and 
baking-powder, then the vanilla, the whites of the eggs beaten 
dry, and lastly the melted chocolate. Bake in a tube pan 
or in layers. Put together and ice with boiled frosting, to 
which candied fruit, cut fine, has been added; or use a marsh- 
mallow icing. 

ELEGANT CAKE 

1 cup of butter. 31-2 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
1-2 a cup of milk. The whites of seven eggs. 

Bake in layers or in one sheet. Ice as desired. 

PLAIN CAKE 

I -3 a cup of butter. i - 2 a cup of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

I 1-2 cups of flour. 

Bake in layers; put together with a filling and ice the top. 
Fig,' date, lemon or orange filling is suitable. Serve freshly' 
made. 

ICE CREAM CAKE, NO. i (BOSTON CATERER) 

I cup of butter. i pound of flour (4 cups) . 

T 1-2 cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of eggs. 3 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

I cup of milk. 1-4 a teaspoonful of mace. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually, the eggs, two 
at a time, unbeaten, and beat each time until very light, then 
add the milk alternately with the flour, mace, and leavening 



444 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

agents; add the vanilla last. Bake in a tube pan; ice as 

desired. 

LEMON CAKE 

I cup of butter. i teaspoonful of soda (scant) . 

3 cups of sugar. The whites of five eggs. 

5 yolks of eggs. The grated rind and juice of one 

I cup of milk. lemon, or 

4 cups of flour. 4 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

Follow the directions for mixing cakes with butter, adding 
the lemon juice last. Bake in two loaves about an hour. 
The heat of the oven should be very moderate at first. A 
Turk's head pan gives good results. Cover with icing flavored 
with lemon rind and juice. The cake is at its best after being 
kept two or three days. 

HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE (WITHOUT YEAST) 
(MRS. D. A. KIMBALL) 

1 1-2 cups of butter. The whites of three eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. 2 cups of sultana or stoned raisins. 

3 yolks of eggs. i cup of currants. 

1 cup of milk. I 1-2 cups of citron, cut fine. 

3 cups of flour. 1-2 a cup of lemon peel, chopped 

3 level teaspoonfuls of baking- fine. 

powder. 1-2 a cup of almonds, shredded. 

20 drops of vanilla extract. 20 drops of bitter almond extract. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding the fruit lightly dredged 
with flour last. Bake in two pans of the usual size for bread, 
or in a round pan of such size as to give the same depth, about 
an hour and a half. The heat needs be (Juite moderate. 

ROCHESTER GINGERBREAD 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1 cup of molasses. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 3 cups of flour. 

2 eggs. I 1-2 teaspoonfuls of soda. 
I cup of thick sour milk. i tea,spoonf ul of ginger. 

I teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Bake in two brick-loaf pans, or in one shallow pan. 



ALMOND CAKE 445 

NEW YORK GINGERBREAD (MRS. THOMPSON) 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. 2 cups of flour. 

2 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of yellow ginger. 
1-4 a cup of molasses. i-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in a loaf. 

ICE CREAM CAKE, NO. 2 

1 cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 6 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1 cup of milk. The whites of five eggs. 

Follow the directions for mixing butter cakes. Bake in 
two thin sheets. Spread "ice cream filling" between the 
layers, also upon the top and sides. Or use a White Mountain 
cream, made of two cups of sugar, half a cup of water, and the 
whites of three eggs, adding bits of cherries, angelica, pine- 
apple, etc., to the filling. 

DELICATE CAKE 

3-4 a cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. , 

2 cups of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
1-2 a cup of milk. The whites of six eggs. 

I teasjjoonful of almond extract. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in a loaf (tube pan) or 
layers. 

GOLDEN CAKE 

I - 2 a cup of butter. 1 - 2 a cup of milk. 

I cup of sugar. i 3-4 cups of flour. 

The yolks of eight eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I teaspoonful of orange extract. • 

Bake in tube pan, cover with plain icing, or with ice cream 
filling,, into which fresh or dried cocoanut has been stirred. 

ALMOND CAKE 

1-2 a cup of butter. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder 

1 cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 
1-2 a cup of milk. 1-3 a cup of blanched almonds. 

2 cups of flour. Powdered sugar. 

The whites of 3 eggs. 



446 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mix in the usual manner and spread in two layer-cake pans. 
Halve the nuts and press sidewise into the top of one of the 
layers, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Bake about fifteen 
minutes. Put the layers together with White Mountain 
frosting, to which one-third a cup of chopped almonds has 
been added. This cake is particularly good with a boiled 
chocolate dressing between and above the layers. Omit the 
almonds. Chopped English walnuts in the chocolate filling 
and halves of nuts on the top are good, though, perhaps, 
superfluous. 

PINEAPPLE CAKE 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. 3-4 a teaspoonful of cream-of- 

1-2 a cup of milk. tartar. 

21-4 cups of flour. T teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

The whites of five eggs. 

Bake in layer-cake pans. Put pineapple filling between the 
layers and plain icing on the top. 

PISTACHIO CAKE 

Bake the mixture for ice cream or pineapple cake in a drip- . 
ping-pan. When baked and cold, invert and spread the bot- 
tom of the cake with White Mountain frosting, and sprinkle 
thickly with chopped pistachio nuts. Flavor with half a 
teaspoonful of almond extract. 

MOLASSES DROP CAKE (MRS. TAYLOR) 

2-3 a cup of butter. i tablespoonful of ginger. 

2-3 a cup of boiling water. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

I pint of molasses. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I tablespoonful of soda. Flour for drop batter. 

Melt the butter in the boiling water and add the molasses 
and the other ingredients sifted together. Drop from a 
spoon on to a buttered baking' tin, having the cakes some dis- 
tance apart. Bake in a slow oven. 



NUT CAKES 447 



LEMON QUEENS 

1-2 a cup of butter. 4 eggs. 

I cup of sugar. . i 1-4 cups of flour. 

The grated rind and juice of 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt, 

half a lemon. 1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in small tins (lemon- 
queen cake tins are deep rather than broad) about twenty-five 
minutes. Cover the tops with plain icing flavored with lemon. 

PLUNKETTS 

I cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of flour. 

I cup of sugar. 3-4 a cup of cornstarch. 

6 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar, beating until foamy. 
Beat the whites of the eggs until dry and the yolks until 
light colored and thick, pour the yolks over the whites and 
"cut and fold" together. Sift together, twice, the flour, corn- 
. starch and baking-powder. Add the beaten eggs to the but- 
ter and sugar gradually, then add the dry ingredients and 
the vanilla extract. Bake in individual tins, buttered. Ice 
or not as desired. 

SMALL CHOCOLATE CAKES 

1-2 a cup of butter. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

1-4 a cup of cocoa. 1-2 a cup of water. 

3 eggs. I 1-4 cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Add the cocoa to the creamed butter and bake in small 
tins. When cold cover with marshmallow frosting, coiling 
the frosting round and round upon the top. 

NUT CAKES 

r-2 a cup of butter. i 3-4 cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

3 Sggs. I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

1-2 a cup of milk. 3-4 a cup of walnut meats, broken 

in pieces. 



448 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in small tins. When 
cold spread the tops with White Mountain frosting and deco- 
rate with half a nutrrieat. Or add half a cup of nutmeats, 
broken in pieces, to a maple sugar -frosting, beat very light, 
let cool to keep, shape and put on to the cakes so that it be 
quite irregular in appearance. 

BROWNIES 

1-3 a cup of butter. 1 egg well beaten. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. i cup of flour. 

1-3 a cup of molasses (dark) . i cup of nuts, pecan or walnuts. 

Mix in the usual manner, but without separating the egg. 
Bake in small, fancy-shaped cake tins. Press half a nutmeat 
into the top of each cake. Small pressed tins of American 
make in various shapes, as stars, shells, leaves, etc., can be 
purchased for three cents each. 

VIENNA QUEENS 

1-2 a cup of butter. i tablespoonful of rich cream. 

3-4 a cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

3 eggs. 1-2 a cup of flour. 

6 ounces of dried cocoanut. 1-3 a cup of cornstarch. 

8 crushed macaroons. i teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding the eggs, beaten without 
separating, before the flour, cocoanut, and macoroon crumbs. 
Bake in small tins, buttered and dusted with equal parts of 
sugar and flour. Shell or nut-shaped tins are pretty. When 
cold ice and decorate with candied fruit. These cakes may 
also be baked in lemon queen tins; when cold remove the 
centres and fill with whipped cream; garnish with candied 
cherries. - Or bake in two layers and put together with 
whipped cream. 

COCOANUT POUND CAKE 

1 cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 2 level teaspoonfuls of cream-of- 
I cup of milk. tartar, (scant measure). 

The whites of six eggs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

I grated cocoanut. 



ENGLISH GINGER NUTS 449 

Follow the directions for mixing butter cakes; add the 
cocoanut- (freshly grated) at the last and bake in two tube 
pans: ice with boiled icing. Or bake in small cakes — the 
mixture will make three dozen. When cold dip in fondant, 
delicately tinted, and ornament with halved almonds and 
candied cherries. For laaking in loaves, or small cakes, the 
oven at first needs be at a very moderate temperature. 

PEANUT COOKIES (MISS YOUNG, NEW HAMPSHIRE) 

1-4 a cup of butter (scant) . i cup of flour. 

1 - 2 a cup of sugar. i -4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
I egg. 3-4 a cup of peanuts. 

Mix in the usual manner; add the egg beaten without 
separating the white from the yolk. Reserve a few whole 
pieces of nuts to garnish the tops of the cakes, and add the 
rest, pounded fine in a mortar, at the last. Drop on a but- 
tered tin, a teaspoonful in a place and some distance apart. 
The ingredients as given will make two dozen cookies. 

PFEFFER NUESSE 

I pound of sugar (2 cups) . 1-2 a tablespoonful of cloves. 

I pound of flour (4 cups) . 1-2 a tablespoonful of mace. 

The grated rind of one lemon. 1-2 a tablespoonful of nutmeg. 

1-2 a cup of fine-chopped citron. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I tablespoonful of cinnamon. 5 eggs. 

Pass the flo'ur, sugar, spices, and baking-powder through 
the sieve together: add the citron and lemon rind and mix to 
a dough with the eggs beaten without separating the whites 
and yolks. With buttered hands shape into small balls, the 
size of a hickory nut. Bake on waxed or buttered paper, 
an inch apart, to a delicate brown, in a quick oven. These 
much resemble macaroons. The recipe giveg seventy cakes. 

ENGLISH GINGER NUTS (JULIA DAVIS CHANDLER) 

1-2 a pound of butter (i cup) . i pound of flour (4 cups) . 

I pound of sugar (2 cups) . 2 tablespoonfuls of white ginger. 

2 eggs. 



456 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, eggs beaten without sepa- 
rating, and ginger with the flour. Shape into balls the size 
of marbles. Bake in a quick oven, but avoid burning. This 
recipe makes about forty little cakes similar to macaroons 
in looks and flavor. Fine-chopped candied orange peel is an 
improvement to these cakes. 

FAIRY GINGERBREAD 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of milk. 

I cup of powdered sugar. i 1-2 cups of flour. 

I tablespoonful of ginger. 

Cream together the butter and sugar; add the milk drop by 
drop, then the flour and ginger sifted together. With a 
broad-bladed knife spread the mixture very thin on the bot- 
tom of dripping-pans, inverted and buttered, and mark in 
squares ; bake about five minutes or until delicately colored. 
The heat of the oven should be moderate. Very quickly cut 
the wafers apart, turn upon the hot pan, and roll in a tubular 
shape. Roll either from one side or corner. 

ALMOND WAFERS 

1-2 a cup of butter. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

I cup of powdered sugar. 2 cups of pastry flour. 

1-2 a cup of milk. Chopped almonds. 

Mix, bake, and roll as fairy gingerbread, sprinkling the mix- 
ture, after spreading and scoring, with the chopped almonds. 
The wafers may be tied in threes with very narrow ribbon. 
Or, the sides dipped in caramel, they may be pressed one 
against another around a mould. Heat the mould a little, 
and the case may be slipped from the mould to set in place 
about a charlotte or Bavarian cream. 

GRAHAM WAFERS 

1-3 a cup of butter. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

The white of one egg. 1-2 a cup of water. 

Graham flour to knead. 

Mix in the usual manner, roll very thin, cut in squares with 



COOKIES 4SI 

a sharp knife, or a pastry jagger, and prick with a fork; bake 
until crisp, but of delicate color. 

GERMAN RINGS 

1 pound of flour (4 cups) . The yolks of three eggs. 

8 ounces of butter (i cup) . 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

6 ounces of sugar (3-4 a cup) . ' Sliced almonds or pistachios. 
The white of one egg. 

Cream the butter and add the sugar, yolks of eggs, vanilla, 
and flour. Add the last of the flour very carefully, as all may 
not be required. Knead until well mixed, then roll into a 
thin sheet, cut into rings two inches across, brush over with 
the white of egg, slightly beaten and sprinkle thickly with 
thin sliced or chopped almonds or pistachios. Bake a pale 
straw color. 

GERMAN CRISPS 

1 cup of butter. 3 eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. Flour to knead. 

The grated rind and juice of Chopped nuts, fruit, etc. 

one lemon. 

Add the sugar gradually to the creamed butter, then the 
rind and juice of the lemon, the yolks and whites beaten 
separately, and the flour. Roll into a thin sheet, cut out into 
rounds, hearts, diamonds, etc., brush over with beaten white 
of egg and decorate with nuts and candied fruit. Bake to a 
delicate straw color. Before baking dredge with granulated 
sugar. 

1 cup of butter. 1-2 to i full cup of milk. 

2 cups of sugar. 4 cups of flour or less. 

2 eggs. 6 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding milk according as a rich, 
crisp, or a less rich and soft cookie is desired. Diminish 
the quantity of flour and baking-powder, if less than a full 
cup of liquid be used. Take a little of the dough upon the 
board at a time, and handle as little as possible; the dough 
should be quite soft, if a cup of milk be used, pat into a sheet 
and cut into cakes. After placing in the pan dredge with 
granulated sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 



452 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING , 

SOFT JUMBLES (MRS. SIDNEY LINCOLN) 

1-2 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of sour cream. 

I cup of sugar. 21-2 cups of flour. 

I beaten egg.. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

Caraway seed. 

Mix in the order given; drop from a spoon; bake in a slow 
oven. V 

GINGER SNAPS 

I cup of butter. i egg. 

I cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of molasses. i tablespoonful of ginger. 

Flour to knead. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding the flour sifted with the 
ginger, and the soda last. 

MOLASSES CANDY COOKIES (ELEANOR J. MCKENZIE) 

I cup of butter. 21-2 cups of molasses. ' 

2 cups of flour. 

Boil the butter and molasses until thick, but not quite 
candied; when cooled a little, add the flour, more may be 
required. When thoroughly cold, roll and cut into cakes. 
Bake in a slow oven. 

HERMITS 

I cup of butter. 3 Clips of flour or more. 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of cloves. 

I cup of chopped raisins. i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

3 eggs. T teaspoonful of soda. 

Add the raisins to the butter and sugar creamed together; 
then add the eggs, beaten without separating the whites and 
yolks, and the flour sifted with the soda and spice; roll into 
a thin sheet, cut in rounds and bake in a slow oven.. 

SPRINGERLE 

4 eggs. I pound of flour. 

I pound of powdered sugar. i teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

The grated rind of one lemon. (scant.) 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 




CAKE COVERED WITH ALMOND ICING. ICING WITH PA'ITEKN. 
(Sfc payc 463.) 



F 



55^58^?^--— 





SPRINGERLII-;. (Sec pauc 45-'. 1 



;grtW nil ii^Mr#|--MliB; -^_|rAMMl«MiittiaK^;Vfew> 



..^?-ie«*f r r'b^^^- 



H P:\i!?^| 



T"* — — — •""Tiffil" -'iMrturii 










SPRINGERLIE MOULD. 



BOSTON CREAM CAKES 453 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light colored and thick, 
the whites until dry, then beat together; add the grated 
lemon rind and the sugar, sifted, very gradually, beating all 
the time, lastly add the flour with the baking-powdei; tod 
salt. All of the flour may not be required. Knead and cover 
cloSely; let chill two or three hours, then roll, a small piece at 
a time, into a sheet one-eighth an inch thick; with a very 
close sieve dust the sheet of dough lightly with flour, then 
press the wooden springerle mould down very hard upon the 
dough, so as to leave a perfect impress of the pictures upon 
the dough; cut out the little squares with a knife and set 
aside, on a board lightly floured, over night. In the morning 
transfer to baking-tins, buttered and sprinkled with anise 
seed, and bake in a slow oven to a light straw color. These 
delicious little cakes are quite universally made in Germany 
a few weeks before Christmas. Often they are kept on hand 
for months, and when eaten are. softened in the beverage 
which accompanies them. Some of the pictures upon the 
moulds are grotesque, others are very attractive. 

CHOU PASTE 

1-2 a cup of butter. i cup of flour. 

I cup of boiling water. 3 large or four small eggs. 

Set a saucepan containing the butter and water over the 
fire; when the mixture boils sift in one cup of flour and beat 
vigorously. When the mixture cleaves from the sides of the 
pan, turn into a bowl and beat 'in the eggs, one at a time, 
and very thoroughly. The mixture is now ready for use as 
indicated. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKES 

Put the chou paste into a pastry-bag with tube having an 
opening half an inch in diameter. Force the batter on to a 
buttered baking-sheet, in balls about two inches in diameter. 
Brush over the tops with a little beaten egg, diluted with 
milk, and bake about twenty-five minutes, with heat strongest 
at the bottom of the oven. When baked and cold open at 
one side and fill with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, 
or with English cream filling. (See Custards.) 



^54 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



FRENCH CREAM CAKES 

Press the chou paste oh to a buttered sheet, giving the balls 
a slightly oval shape. Brush with egg and bake as before. 
Cut across the tops a little at one side and fill with thick 
cream, sweetened and flavored and beaten stiff. In filling 
the cakes use a pastry-bag with star tube attached. Sprinkle 
the tops of the cakes with sifted powdered sugar. Cream 
cakes are often served with a spoonful of strawberry pre- 
serves. In season, fresh berries mashed to a pulp may be 
added to the cream before whipping. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS 

Press the chou paste from a pastry-bag with plain tube, 
three-fourths an inch in diameter, on to a buttered baking- 
sheet, in strips three inches and a half in length.. When baked 
and cold fill with Frenth or English cream. Dip the smooth, 
or under sides, into chocolate fondant, or spread with choco- 
late frosting. (See page 461.) 

QUEEN ECLAIRS 

Bake eclairs in the usual shape, only smaller. When cool 
fill with peach marmalade, in which fine-chopped almonds 
have been mixed. Spread the tops with orange icing. 

SWEDISH MACAROONS 

1 2 ounces of shredded almonds, i pound of sugar. 

4 ounces of ground almonds. 2 whole eggs. 

4 ounces of cornstarch. The grated rind of two oranges. 

Pass the sugar and cornstarch through the sieve twide; 
add the almonds, orange rind, and, lastly, the eggs beaten 
light without separating. With buttered hands shape the 
mixture into balls the size of a walnut ; bake on tins, covered 
with oiled or waxed paper, in slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS 

Omit from the chou paste mixture given above two level 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and, after all the eggs are added, beat 



MERINGUES 455 

in an ounce and a half of chocolate melted over hot water. 
Press on to the baking-sheet in stars, by the use of the star 
tube. When baked and cold cut off the top of each cake 
and remove any uncooked paste from the centre; put into 
each cake a teaspoonful of strawberry preserves, or apricot 
marmalade, and above this a-star of thick cream sweetened, 
flavored and beaten until solid. 

MERINGUES 

1-2 a pound (i cup) of whites x pound (2 cups) of fine gran- 

of eggs. ulated sugar.. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

The eggs should be fresh ; add the salt, beat slowly at first — 
a confectioner's whisk is the best utensil for the purpose — 
then beat faster as they grow stiff, until they are very stiff; 
then whisk in two tablespoonfuU of the sugar; add the same 
quantity of sugar twice more, whisking in the sugar thoroughly 
each tiine before more is added, then continue beating until 
the mixture can be cut clean with a knife. Then add the 
rest of a pound (one cup) of sugar, and fold into the mass 
lightly and smoothly. Lightly tack a sheet of damp paper 
on to a b'oard about one inch in thickness ; with a spoon drop 
the mixture on to the paper, giving each spoonful an oval or 
egg shape. Dust these with granulated sugar, set into a cool 
oven, and let dry out rather than bake. At the last increase 
the heat, and let them take on a delicate brown color. When 
baked they can be lifted from the paper. Baking will require 
from three-fourths an hour to a full hour. When baked, 
remove the tacks and invert the paper; carefully take off the 
meringues, and take out the uncooked portion in the centre; 
lay, with the open centre up, on another board, and return to 
the oven to dry. When dry and cold fill the shells, nicely 
paired, with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, or with 
cream or water ice, and press the two corresponding parts 
together. Serve at once. The meringues may be baked on a 
waxed baking-sheet. An extra half cup of sugar gives a 
dryer meringue. 



450 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



MUSHROOM MERINGUES 

With pastry-bag and plain tube shape the meringue mix- 
ture into rounds the size of mushroom caps, and in upright 
pieces, like thick rnushroom stems. Dust the caps with 
•grated cocoanut or powdered cinnamon. When baked and 
taken from the paper, fit the caps, while hot, on the stems. 

MERINGUES WITH WHIPPED CREAM AND STRAW- 
BERRIES 

These are more easily served, when they are arranged on 
individual plates. Place two shells close together, side by 
side, and fill with the froth from thin cream, sweetened before 
beating. Garnish with strawberries. Or dilute a cup of 
thick cream with a cup of strawberry pulp and juice, add 
sugar to taste, beat very stiff with a whisk and use as a filling 
for the shells. Garnish with whole berries, or with chopped 
or halved pistachio nuts. The two halves may be fastened 
together with a little hot caramel, to simulate a half-opened 
clam shell, then fill with cream. 

BOW KNOTS 

2 eggs. 1-2 a level teaspoonful of cream-of- 

1-3 a cup of sugar. tartar. 

I tablespoonful of thick cream 1-4 a teaspoonful, each, of salt and 

(sweet) . mace. 

I tablespoonful of melted butter. Flour to make a stiff dough. 
1-8 a teaspoonful of soda. 

Beat the eggs without separating; add the sugar, cream, 
and butter, then the flour sifted with the other ingredients ; 
roll small pieces of the dough into strips in size and shape of a 
pencil, tie in bow or single knots, fry in deep fat and roll in 
powdered sugar. 

DOUGHNUTS 

T whole egg and the yolks of two 4 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tar- 

raore. , tar. 

I cup of Sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of milk. I teaspoonful of salt. 

S cups of (sifted) fiour. 1-4 a teaspoonful of mace. 







BANANA SHORTCAKE. (See page 540.) 




MUSHROOM MERlXGaES. (See page 456.) 




SMALL CHOCOLATE CAKES, MARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 
(Sec i)af;e 447) 



MARGUERITES 457 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar gradually, then the milk, and 
stir into the rest of the ingredients sifted together, mix thor- 
oughly, adding more flour, if necessary. The dough should 
be about as soft as can be handled. Take put a little at a 
time on to a floured board, knead lightly, roll into a sheet 
and cut into rings. Drop into hot fat and fry to a yellow- 
brown, turning often ; drain on soft paper. 

MARGUERITES (EMMA L. MORROW, NEW YORK) 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of water, until it threads. 
Remove to back of the range and drop in five marshmallows, 
cut in pieces. Let stand to dissolve, then gradually pour 
on to the whites of two eggs, beaten until foamy. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of shredded cocoanut and one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. When partially cool add one cup of 
English walnut meats. Spread on saltines and brown sHghtly 
in a hot oven. This quantity will spread between three and 
four dozen crackers. Delicious for afternoon teas. 

W^ALDORF TRIANGLES 

Beat the yokes of six eggs very light. Gradually beat into 
these half a cup of granulated sugar, then a grating of orange 
rind and two tablespoonfuls of orange juice. Lastly, add 
half a cup of sifted flour, sifted again with a level teaspoonful 
of baking powder and a few grains of salt. Put the mixture. 
into the pans made for the purpose and bake in an oven 
rather hotter than for angel cake. When the cakes are 
turned from the moulds, cover the sides with boiled frosting 
and sprinkle with fine-chopped pistachio nuts. The recipe 
makes twelve cakes. 



CHAPTER XVII 



Cake Icings and Decorations 







' Butter Icing. 






Water Icing. 




Fruit Juice Icing. 




Chocolate Icing with Water. 




' Uncooked. 


Chocolate Icing with Syrup. 
Royal Icing. 
Soft Icing. 
Ornamental Icing. 


ings for 




Almond Icing. 


Cake. 








r 


' Caramel , 

White Mountain Cream 
or Italian Meringue. 




Cooked. 


"Boiled" Icing. • 


Chocolate. 


/ 




Fruit Juice. 






Marshmallow. 




I 




Fondant Icing. 



Cakes are decorated with sugar in various forms, with fruit 
or with nuts, either alone or combined with sugar, also with 
butter combined with sugar. The simplest decoration is ob- 
tained by dusting a baked cake with white or tinted powdered 
or granulated sugar; this decoration is especially appropriate 
when the cake is balked in layers, and these are held together 
with whipped cream or a custard filling. The sugar will 
adhere to the cake much better, if the cake be first brushed 
over with white of egg or fruit jelly. Sugar of one color may be 
used, or the cake may be scored in some pattern as diamonds, 
squares, etc., and the design may be filled in with sugar in 
two or more dolors. The decoration next in order, as regards 
simplicity of production, is obtained by sprinkling the top 
of the cake with either powdered or granulated sugar before 
baking; this may be elaborated by inserting blanched-and- 

458 



UTENSILS 459 

halved almonds sidewise in the top of the cake, and sprinkling 
the whole with sugar. Fruit may be used in the same manner. 

When sugar, used for decoration, is mixed with liquid, to 
form a mixture, and this is spread upoii a cake so as to cover 
completely its surface, the cake is said to be frosted or iced. 

The process of forcing frosting or icing through a bag 
with tube attached, so as to trace a design upon the cake, is 
called piping. Only specially prepared icings can be used 
for piping. 

A frosted cake is decorated with piping alone ; or coarse, 
colored sugars, citron, glac^ fruits, nuts, small candies and 
fruit jellies are combined with the piping. 

MATERIALS FOR UNCOOKED ICING 

With the exception of the syrup for chocolate icing, which 
is made of granulated sugar, and which might be classed 
among the cooked icings, all uncooked icings are made of 
confectioner's or XXXX sugar. This sugar is considered 
finer than ordinary powdered sugar. When eggs are called 
for, they should be fresh; nuts should be without rancidity, 
and all flavoring materials the choicest in quality. 

UTENSILS 

The utensils needed in decorating are few: a sieve with a 
very fine mesh, twenty-eight holes to the linear inch, through 
which the dry sugar should always be passed, is of the utmost 
importance. For ornamental icing a round bottomed bowl, 
a wooden spatula, or perforated spoon, for mixing, and bags, 
with tubes for piping the mixture, are also essentials. 

The bags for holding icing that is to be piped may be bought, 
or, at very slight expense, made at home. (See Pastry-Bag 
and Tubes, page 32.) Copper tubes may be bought, in sets of 
six or twelve, at a confectioner's or a large kitchen furnishing 
store. These afford shapes for large and small rounds, stars, 
leaves, ribbons, cords, and frills. The angle at which the bag 
is to be held while at work depends upon the position of the 
surface to be decorated and the style of decoration; this is 
readily determined upon trial. 



46o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



RKCIPES FOR UNCOOKED ICINGS 
BUTTER ICING (MOCHA CREAM) 

1 cup of butter. 21-2 cups of powdered sugar. 

The yolk of one egg. Coffee extract to taste. 

Wash the butter in cold water, to free it from salt, pat it 
to remove all water, and then beat to a cream ; add the beaten 
yolk of egg, and, gradually, the sugar and enough coffee ex- 
tract to give the flavor desired. A very little caramel or color 
paste may be added, to heighten the color when needed. Tne 
tint should be that of a cup of strong coffee with cream. Use 
for filling between layers and for piping. One or two squares 
of melted chocolate and a teaspoonful of vanilla may be used 
instead of the coffee. 

BUTTER ICING WITH SYRUP 

I cup of butter. Syrup registering 35° on syrup 

The yolk of one egg. gauge, or one cup of sugar and 

Coffee extract. half a cup of black coffee. 

Wash the butter in cold water to remove the salt, pat it 
dry in a cloth and then beat to a cream; gradually add the 
beaten yolk and enough syrup and coffee extract to sweeten 
and flavor to taste. If neither syrup nor extract be at hand, . 
boil a cup and a half of sugar and half a cup of black coffee 
about six minutes and let cool before using. If the syrup 
sugars or glazes over, add a tablespoonful of liquid coffee, 
let boil till smooth, then cool and use. A cup and a half of 
butter will be required for a large cake with heavy decoration. 

WATER ICING 

About 4 tablespoonfuls of water or 1 1-2 cups of confectioner's sugar. 
About 4 tablespoonfuls of clear. Flavoring as needed. 

black coffee or Color pastes for tinting as desired. 

About 4 tablespoonfuls of fruit juice. 

If the cake be but slightly cooled, let the liquid be cold; 
if the cake be cold, let the liquid be hot. Stir the liquid into 
the sifted sugar, adding more, a few drops at a time, as needed. 
A little lemon juice added to other fruit juice accentuates the 



SOFT ICING 461 

flavor of the latter. The icing is of proper consistency, when 
it coats the spoon and conceals its color. 

WATER ICING WITH CHOCOLATE 

1 1-2 cups of confectioner's sugar i ounce of chocolate. 

About 6 tablespoonfiils of boiling 1-3 a teaspoonful of vanilja ex- 
water, tract. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water; add the boiling water 
and stir until smooth; add the vanilla and stir in the sifted 
sugar, adding more hot Water, if needed, to spread the mixture 
smoothly. 

CHOCOLATE ICING WITH SYRUP 

2 ounces of cocoa or chocolate. 1-2 a cup of •syrup registering 30° 
1-4 a teaspoonful of ground cinna- on the syrup gauge. 

mon or cinnamon extract. Confectioner's sugar as needed. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water (the cocoa will melt in the 
syrup) add the cinnamon and stir in the hot syrup ; let stand 
over hot water until beaten smooth and very hot; add the 
vanilla and sugar as needed, then pour or spread upon the 
cake; eclairs and small cakes may be dipped into the hot icing. 

ROYAL ICING 

The white of one egg. Confectioner's sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, or Color paste for tinting if desired. 
The jiiice of half a lemon or both 
water and juice. 

Stir sugar into the liquid ingredients, until the icing is of a 

consistency to spread. If the mixture be beaten instead of 

stirred, less sugar will be required, and the icing will be lighter, 

but it will be less soft and creamy and will dry out more 

quickly. 

SOFT ICING (ICE CREAM ICING) 

The whites of two eggs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 

1-2 a cup of confectioner's sugar. tract. 

Beat the whites Of the eggs until foamy, then beat in, 
gradually, the sugar; add the flavoring and beat the mixture 
(a confectioner's whisk is the best utensil for 'the purpose) 



462 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

until it is very smooth and glossy. This makes a very soft 
icing. It is used principally on white layer cake, as filling 
and icing. It spreads easily upon the sides of the cake to 
cover. Make smooth with a silver knife. 

ORNAMENTAL ICING 

The whites of four eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of cream of 

I pound of confectioner's sugar. tartar, or 

I tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Beat the whites of the eggs with one-fourth a cup of sugar 
three or four minutes, then continue to add the same quantity 
of sugar, beating the same length of time, until half the sugar 
has been used ; add the cream-of-tartar with the second quan- 
tity of sugar, or add the lemon juice gradually as the mixture 
thickens. Now continue adding the sugar, a spoonful at a 
time, beating several minutes between each addition, until a 
knife cut down into the frosting makes a "clean cut " that will 
not close again. Spread the cake with a thin coating of frost- 
ing and, when this has hardened by standing, spread on a 
second layer, make it level with a thin knife, score for cutting 
in slices and set aside to become perfectly dry before tracing 
upon it the pattern for piping. Many recommend setting 
the cake in a warming oven a few moments, as " the heat sets, 
swells, and glazes the icing. " Icing to be spread upon the 
sides of a cake needs be a little thicker than that for the 
flat, top surface. To the remaining frosting continue to add 
sugar and beat until the icing will flow in a continuous stream 
and keep the shape of the tube attached to the bag. The full 
pound of sugar will not be needed, if a part of the frosting be 
used, before its addition, to cover the top of the cake. 

The stiGcess attending the use of this icing depends much 
upon thorough beating between the additions of sugar. 

Particularly is this true of icing used for piping; this needs 
be stiff er and tougher than that for merely covering a cake; 
and this condition is secured by the beating rather than by 
the addition of sugar. Without beating it will not hold its 
shape. 
, This icing dries very quickly and, if it be not used as soon 




LEMON QUEENS, DECORATED WITH ORNAMENTAL ICING 

AND CANDIED VIOLETS. 

{Sec paffes 447 and 462.) 




CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS, HORSESHOE SHAPE. NAILS, 
ETC., IMITATED BY BLANCHED ALMONDS. 
(See page 454.) 




CHOCOLATE PUFFS. (See page 454.) 



COOKED ICINGS 463 

as finished, cover it with a damp cloth and plate. When a 
large cake is to be iced, it is better to make frosting, and ice 
and dry the cake, before commencing the ornamental icing 
for piping. Icing is often tinted with vegetable color paste. 
When a brown color is desired, cocoa or confectioner's choco- 
late, such as is used for dipping bon-bons, is preferable to the 
ordinary chocolate, which thickens too much to allow the 
icing to flow freely. 

ALMOND ICING 

Almond icing is used in connection with any of the icings 
given above excepting, perhaps, the soft icing; by its use 
crumbs, so troublesome in icing a cake, are avoided. Beat into 
enough almond paste to cover the surface of the cake to the 
thickness desired (one-eighth to one-fourth an inch does 
nicely) as many yolks of eggs as will make it of a consistency 
to roll out. Dust the moulding board with powdered sugar 
and roll into a sheet ; cut, by a pattern, to fit the cake, press 
upon the cake and let stand twenty-four hours before spread- 
ing the icing. Four ounces of paste and the yolks of two 
eggs will cover the top and sides of a small cake, such as is 
shown in the illustration. 

ALMOND ICING, NO. 2 (M. M. MALLOCK) 

1-2 a pound of fine ground almonds. The whites of two eggs. 
1-2 a pound of confectioner's sugar. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until slightly frothy and mix 
with the almonds and sugar to make a stiff paste ; add more 
sugar if needed, and knead until the mass loses its stickiness ; 
form with the hands or the rolling-pin into a shape to fit the 
top and sides, if desired, of the cake, press upon the cake and 
trim the edges evenly with a knife. Let stand at least twenty- 
four hours before covering with icing. 

COOKED ICINGS 

Granulated sugar is, as a rule, required for the foundation 
of cooked icings, though light brown and maple sugar are 
used occasionally. The sugar is cooked with liquid to different 



464 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

degrees by the sugar thermometer. The proportion of sugaf 
to liquid, in making the syrup, is about four of the former to 
one of the latter, by measure or weight, as : one cup of sugar, 
(one-half a pound) to one-fourth a cup of liquid (one-eighth a 
pound) . When the syrup is to be diluted with eggs, it is 
cooked to the soft-ball degree. At this point the sugar ther- 
mometer registers about 238. (See Boiling Sugar, page 628.) 

CARAMEL ICING 

3 cups of brown sugar (coflfee C) . i tablespoonful of butter. 

1-2 a cup of cream or ' i teaspoonful of vanilla. 
1-4 a cup of condensed milk and 
1-4 a cup of water. 

Boil all the ingredients, save the vanilla, four minutes 
after boiling begins, add the flavor, and beat until the mixture 
begins to thicken, then spread at once upon the cake and 
score for cutting. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAM OR ITALIAN MERINGUE 

I cup of sugar. The whites of two eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla or 

1-4 a cup of boiling water. 1-2 a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Stir the sugar, cream-of-tartar and water over the fire, 
until the sugar dissolves and the mixture reaches the boiling 
point, then cook without stirring until the syrup threads 
when dropped from the spoon. The sugar thermometer will 
register about 238° Fahr. Pour the syrup in a fine stream 
onto the whites of the eggs, beaten until foamy but not dry, 
beating constantly meanwhile. Set the saucepan on the 
range a moment and continue beating until the egg looks 
cooked, then set into cold water, add the flavor, and beat 
occasionally until cool enough to spread. This frosting is 
made to perfection when it has a thin glossy crust upon the 
outside and is soft and creamy inside. Ornament the icing 
and score for cutting as soon as it is spread, since it often 
crusts over instantly. If, when ready to spread, it seems to 
have been cooked too much, a little boiling water, lemon 
juice, preserves or syrup may be beaten into it. If not suf' 



CHOCOLATE ICING 465 

ficiently cooked, let cook longer, over a slow fire,' stirring con- 
stantly, or add some ingredient, as chopped nuts. Or add 
melted chocolate, which thickens on cooling. 

BOILED PINEAPPLE FROSTING 

1-2 a cup of grated pineapple. The whites of two.eggs. 

(juice and pulp) . 1-2 a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

I cup of granulated sugar. 

Cook the sugar and juice to a syrup that threads (217° 
Fahr.) and proceed as for White Mountain cream. 

BOILED MAPLE FROSTING 

I pound of maple sugar, broken 1-2 a cup of water. 

into pieces. The whites of two eggs. 

Make as White Mountain cream. 

CHOCOLATE ICING (BOILED) 

I cup of sugar. 2 ounces of cocoa or chocolate. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. The whites of two eggs. 
1-4 a cup of boiling water. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla 

extract. 

Boil the first three ingredients to the thread degree, 217° 
Fahr., on the sugar thermometer, beat in the melted chocolate 
or cocoa and pour in a fine stream on to the whites of eggs, 
beaten until foamy — not dry; beat until cool, add the vanilla 
and spread upon the cake. This is a particularly good icing 
to use with English walnuts, or pecan nuts. Almonds make 
a more showy decoration, but they taste better with chocolate, 
if combined with preserved fruit as cherries. This icing does 
not thicken as quickly as the ordinary boiled frosting and will 
run from the cake somewhat ; with a silver knife return to the 
cake, even several times, when it will adhere. It has a dead 
rather than a glossy surface and will keep moist a week or 
ten days. If an ice with a glossy surface that stiffens at once 
be preferred, return the icing to the fire, after the addition of 
the chocolate, and boil a second time to the thread stage 
(without stirring), then finish as before. 



466 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



MARSHMALLOW FROSTING . 

1 1-3 cups of granulated sugar. 1-2 a pound of marshmallows. 
1-2 a cup of boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 

The whites of two eggs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Prepare the first three ingredients as "boiled frosting." 

Add the marshmallows, cut in small pieces and melted with 

the boiling water over the tea-kettle. Add the flavor and 

beat until cold. Decorate with cubes of marshmallows, if 

desired. ' 

FONDANT ICING 

Icing made from fondant, both' as regards looks and taste, 
is the best of all icings. However, it is more often used for 
small than for large cakes, as the best results are secured 
when the article to be iced is dipped into the icing. The 
fondant from which this icing is prepared keeps almost in- 
definitely, and, when not ready for vise, may be bought of a 
confectioner or baker. A recipe for fondant is given on page 
630. To prepare for icing, put what will be needed into the 
upper part of a double-boiler set over hot water; add a few 
drops of syrup, at about 35", and such flavoring as is desired, 
and stir while it melts. The water need not boil, as the fondant^ 
melts at a low temperature. Tint if desired, and dip into the 
icing the articles to be coate'd. Small cakes of all kinds and 
Eclairs are most commonly the choice. Add syrup to thin, 
as the mixture thickens, and always stir before dipping an 
article. Made a little thinner than for dipping, it may be 
run onto a large cake. 

TO ICE A CAKE 

Cakes that are properly mixed and baked need but little 
if any trimming to put them into symmetrical shape for 
icing. Trimming should be avoided if possible, for a cake 
with a smooth surface and free from loose crumbs is the first 
essential of neat work. Often bakers brush the entire sur- 
face of angel cakes with a whisk broom before pouring over 
them the thin water icing with which these cakes are usually 



TO PIPE A CAKE WITH ORNAMENTAL ICING 467 

masked. Small cakes cut from a sheet are "glazed," or 
brushed over with white of egg mixed with a small quantity 
of sugar, then allowed to dry twelve hours or more before 
icing. The preliminary smooth covering of almond icing 
answers the purpose for another class of cakes. Many cakes 
may be inverted, thus presenting the surface next to the 
tin or lining of the tin for icing. "Water" icings and boiled 
icings need be spread very rapidly, as they set very soon, and 
the surface cannot be improved in appearance afterwards 
save by the addition of another complete layer of icing. 
Royal icing may be made smooth and even with a silver 
knife wet in hot or cold water. 

Nearly a pound of royal icing will be needed to cover the 
top and sides of a cake of ordinary size. 

TO ICE WITH ROYAL ICING 

Pour a quantity of the icing on to the middle of the cake 
and spread with knife, dipped in water, in an even layer over 
the top of the cake, turning it smoothly over the edges. Add 
sugar to the remaining icing and when thoroughly beaten 
put this by spoonfuls against the sides of the cake, and spread 
upward and downward until smooth. The cake should be 
set on a box resting on a meat or similar board, kept for the 
purpose, or on a large platter. Turn the cake by turning 
the box. The icing that drops to the board, or plate, below 
can be taken up and used again. Let the cake stand in the 
warm room or in the warming oven to dry for an hour or so. 
At this time nuts or candied fruit may be put in place. If 
the cake is to be iced with ornamental icing, it needs stand 
twelve hours or more. 

TO PIPE A CAKE WITH ORNAMENTAL ICING 

The forcing-bag and tubes necessary in piping a cake are 
referred to on page 32; see also illustration. To pipe a cake 
after an elaborate pattern requires a steady hand and much 
practice, but dots, circles, lines, and stars combined into a 
simple pattern, or even the letters of a child's name, may be 
easily accomplished, if the outlines of the design be indicated 



468 PRACTICAL ■ COOKING AND SERVING 

by points like those made witK a larding needle. Small cakes, 
iced with fondant, are very easily decorated. ^The white of 
one egg and sugar in proportion will suffice to decorate a 
large number. Small candies, candied cherries, violets and. 
rose leaves are combined with the piping. For an elaborate 
design, suitable for a large cake, have a pattern traced on 
paper, cover this with a pane of glass and trace the pattern 
upon the glass until it is learned. Scrape off the icing before 
it dries and repeat. Lard or butter may be used instead of 
icing, while learning how to manipulate the tubes. 

FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKES 
PINEAPPLE FILLING 

Carefully remove the outside and "eyes" of a pineapple, 
then grate the flesh from the core. Simmer until well reduced. 
To each cup of reduced pulp add three-fourths a cup of sugar 
and cook to a marmalade. When cool spread between the 
layers of cake. The addition of the grated rind and juice of 
half a lemon tends to heighten or bring out the flavor of the 
pineapple. Finish the top of the cake with a boiled frosting, 
flavored with l6mon, or use a confectioner's frosting. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING, NO. 2 

Stir enough sifted confectioner's sugar into half a cup of 
pineapple pulp, reduced without sugar, to make a mixture of 
consistency to spread; flavor with orange or lemon extract, 
or a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and use as filling and frost- 
ing. 

FIG FILLING 

I - 2 a pound of figs. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

1-4 a cup of water. Juice of half a lemon. 

3 teaspoonfuls of sherry wine. 

Chop the figs very fine; cook with the sugar, water and 
fruit juice to a smooth paste; add the wine, then use between 
layers of cake. Cooked less thick the mixture may be used 
with confectioner's sugar as a frosting and filling. A small 



LEMON OR ORANGE FILLING 469 

portion of pulp may be added to a boiled frosting after the 
syrup has been poured upon the eggs. If, at any time, through 
insufficient cooking, or the addition of too much liquid mate- 
rial, a boiled frosting is too thin to hold its shape, return to the 
fire and beat very vigorously, while it evaporates a little. 

LEMON OR ORANGE FILLING 

I cup of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I lemon or orange. i egg or two yolks of egg. 

Beat the egg without separating the white and yolk; 
add the sugar, the grated rind and juice of the fruit and the 
butter, and cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until the 
mixture thickens. Use when cold. 

BOILED CARAMEL ICING 

Boil one cup of granulated sugar and one-fourth a cup of 
water until the syrup threads. In the meantime cook one- 
fourth a cup of sugar to the caramel stage ; add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water and cook until the caramel is 
dissolved. When the first sugar and water are boiled to 
the thread stage, add the liquid caramel, and if not now at 
the thread stage continue cooking until that stage is reached, 
then pour in a fine stream onto the white of one egg beaten 
until very foamy but not dry. Beat occasionally until cold, 
then spread a part over the cake and with forcing-bag and 
tube "pipe" the remainder upon the cake. This icing is 
particularly good for a nut cake. Nuts may also be added 
to the icing. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
Pastry and Pies 

Dame, get up and bake yotir pies, 

Bake your pies, bake your pies; 
Dame, get up and bake your pies, 

On Christmas day in the morning. 

Evidently Mother Goose, dear old soul, was in advance of 
her day and generation, in the art of cookery, as well as in 
matters that pertain to the bringing-up of children and sundry 
other perplexing questions of her day and ours. That Mother 
Goose was at the front in matters of cookery is evidenced by 
the fact that in those days, when pies were made by the 
hundred, — ^the plate on which they were baked being handed 
around the neighborhood, — she advised all good housewives 
to bake their pies on Christmas morning; that is, on the day 
in which they, were to be eaten. Without doubt, this wise 
old mother did not give her admonitions simply for the sake 
of rhyming. No; she had reason^ for the same; and, like 
many another Boston woman who has had the courage of 
her convictions, she boldly announced them, heresy though 
they were. But the wbrld moves; the wisdom of yesterday 
is an exploded theory to-day, and in our day, though pastry 
works better when it is prepared the day beforehand, pies, 
in the usual acceptance of the term, are not "put together" 
until the day on which they are to be served. 

The digestion of fat is not begun in the mouth as is that of 
starch. Fat undergoes no change in the system, until it is 
emulsified and saponified in the small intestines. As in mak- 
ing pastry the starch granules are completely enveloped in 
fat, these cannot be seized upon by the saliva in the mouth, 
and hence the digestion of the starch in pastry is postponed 

470 



PASTRY AND PIES 471 

until after the fat is acted upon. Then, if the pancreatic 
juice can discharge its office, all is well, but if this fails, the 
starch becomes so much waste material. The fact that in- 
sufficient water is added before cooking to cause the starch 
giranules to swell properly also hinders digestion. For these 
and other reasons "pie" is no longer given a place in "good 
society. " Yet, when one with good understanding of the 
subject uses good materials and is willing to give time and 
attention to the manipulation and cooking of pastry, pies 
may be so made that an occasional indulgence therein may be 
condoned. In the semi-privacy of family gatherings, par- 
ticularly during the holiday season, pie is often in evidence; 
while anything made of puff-paste is given place of honor, on 
any occasion, no matter how formal. 

The English are noted for the number and variety of their 
pies. These consist of a heavy crust, made of suet, with 
fillings composed of every known kind of fish or flesh. They 
are eaten hot or cold, and are, no doubt, a relic of that rude 
age, when every man's dwelling was his castle, from which 
he was wont to sally forth with his retainers, to avenge wrongs 
or enlarge the boundaries of his feudal domain. Dickens 
makes his characters revel in pies. You recall how his "fat 
boy" was always on the point of beginning or finishing "a 
jolly meat pie. " 

Some French cooks include brioche, choux-paste (used for 
eclairs, cheese dishes, etc.), sponge and other cakes, under 
the term "pastry." The word as here used is limited to a 
mixture of flour, shortening, and some liquid, mixed, rolled, 
sometimes folded and baked for special purposes. 

Thus restricted pastry may be classified under four heads : 

( I. Shortening mixed, into the flour by Chop- 
in ping or with the tips of the fingers. 

Shortening worked into a paste of flour and 
water by folding and rolling. 
3. Shortening mixed into the flour by a corn- 



Pastry. . 



PuflE. j 



(3. Shortening mixed into the flour by 
■ Pl^^y- I bination of the first two methods. 

A fourth paste might be mentioned, for it is still in use in 
some parts of England as it was in this country in early 



472 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

colonial times, but it now has become well nigh obsolete. In 
this pastry, the shortening, beef or mutton suet, is melted in 
boiling water and stirred boiling hot into the flour. After 
kneading and rolling the pastry into a thick sheet it is shaped 
upon or in a mould by pressing upon it with the fingers until 
the mould is covered. Thus the "raised pies" of colonial 
times were made,- 

MATERIALS AND UTENSILS 

A cool, dry atmosphere is an essential condition in suc- 
cessful pastry-making. A flour that absorbs moisture least, 
that is, a fine pastry or cake flour, well dried by standing in 
the warming oven, is a first requisite in pastry-making. There 
are several good brands of flour made expressly for this pur- 
pose. The shortening, except for puff-paste, is largely a 
matter of taste. Lard makes a light'Colored, soft, tender 
crust. Cottolene gives a paste slightly darker when baked, 
but also soft and tender. The vegetable oils give good results. 
Beef suet or butter, alone or in combination, may be used 
for any paste other than puff ; for this butter is generally pre- 
ferred, though some chefs choose a clarifled suet. 

Formerly ice water was thought necessary in mixing paste, 
but, at the present time, it is known that the process is simpli- 
fled by using water of the same temperature as that of the 
room in which the paste is mixed ; this, needless to say, should 
be very low. No more water should be used than is absolutely 
necessary, as water detracts from the shortness of the crust. 

PROPORTIONS OF FLOUR AND WATER 

Flour varies greatly, but half the weight of the flour in 
water, or four ounces of water (one-half a cup) to eight of 
flour (two cups) will usually be about the right proportion for 
plain_ pastry. A small quantity of baking-powder insures 
lightness, but it is not essential to 'the product of an expert. 
In summer time ice is needed to chill puff-paste, before it is 
sent to the oven; at other times avoid its use if possible. A 
marble slab, firmly set, offers the best "field of operations." 
A square of sailcloth and a rolling-pin, fitted with a stockinet 




UTENSILS FOR MAKINCi PASTRY. 
Pa^tr\ fi trk ami ia^k'^T, "MaKic CuN'ers" fur boan.1 and rwlliiiL; pin. 



(Sec page 472,1 




SWEDISH TI.MBALE IRO-\. APPLE CORER. CUTTERS FOR 
SANDWICHES OR CAKES. FRENCH PATTY CUTTER. 




PASTRY BAKED ON INVERTED TIN. 
Crix-erincr tin with pa^te (See T'age 477,) 



PLAIN PASTRY 473 

cover, both lightly dredged with flour, are good substitutes; 
but, lacking these, a perfectly smooth hardwood board will 
suffice. The rolling-pin should be made with movable ends. 
A flour dredger, a knife for mixing, and a chopping-bowl and 
knife complete the list of needful utensils. 

KEEPING PASTRY 

Any kind of paste will keep uncooked a day or two, longer 
at some seasons, if it be set aside in a cool place. If baked 
by itself (without a filling) cooked pastry will keep several 
days in a dry place. Before serving, reheat with care and it 
will present the crispness and freshness of pastry just baked. 

PLAIN PASTRY (CHOPPED PASTE) 

3 cups of flour. 1-2 ateaspoonful of baking-powder 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 2-3 cup of shortening. 

3-8 to 3-4 a cup of water. 

Sift the flour, salt, and baking-powder into a chopping- 
bowl. Flour the blade of the chopping knife and chop the 
shortening into the flour, being very careful to keep the flour 
between the blade of the knife and the shortening as much as 
possible. When the mixture looks like meal, each little 
particle of fat being coated with flour, add, gradually, cold 
water enough to make a paste that is not crumbly, but sticks 
together without adhering to the knife or bowl. If preferred, 
turn the ingredients, after chopping, into an earthen mixing- 
bowl. A case knife is preferable for mixing paste. When 
the paste rolled with a knife into a ball has taken up all the 
particles of dough or flour on the sides of the bowl, turn on to 
the board lightly dredged with flour, roll about in the flour 
with the knife, then pat with the rolling-pin into a rectangular 
shape and roll out to the thickness required. Do not allow 
the paste to stick to the board cr the roller. If the mass 
slides on the board, it will not stick. Dust the board or the 
paste with flour when necessary, but use no more flour than 
is absolutely required. Use this paste at once; or roll into 
one long strip, then fold so as to make three layers, turn half- 
way around, so that the open end may lie facing the operator 



474 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and roll out again into a long strip, fold, and turn as before. 
This process may be repeated. If the paste be closely covered 
and set aside, it may be manipulated, after some hours, even 
more easily than when first made. 

FLAKY PASTRY 

3 cups of flour. 1-2 a cup of shortening. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3-8 to 3-4 a cup of water. 

1-2 a cup of washed butter. 

Wash the butter and set aside as for puff-paste. With a 
knife or the tips of the fingers work the half -cup of shortening 
into the flour and salt. When the mixture looks like meal, 
add the cold water, gradually, and with a knife mix to a paste 
as in plain pastry; knead slightly, cover and let stand five 
minutes, then pat with the rolling-pin and roll out into a 
rectangular sheet. Fold in the butter as in puff-paste, and 
give the paste two or three "turns, " allowing it to stand five 
minutes between each turn. This pastry may be used at once. 
If set away for future use, cover closely to exclude the air 
and avoid the forming of a crust. 

CREAM PASTRY (FOR ONE LARGE PIE) 

1-3 a teaspoonful of baking- i 1-4 cups of flour. 

powder, or 1-2 to 3-4 a cup of thick cream. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of soda. 3 tablespoonfuls of washed butter. 

1-3 a teaspoonful of salt. 

If the cream be sweet, use the baking-powder, if sour, use 
the soda. Sift the flour, salt, and leavening agent together; 
stir in enough cream to make a paste as described above. 
Take out rather more than half the paste, knead slightly 
then pat, and roll out to fit the pie tin. Knead the rest of the 
paste slightly, roll out into a rectangular sheet, and spread 
with the washed butter. Fold the first third of the paste 
over the second third, the last over the others, and pat and 
roll out. Repeat the folding and rolling two or three times. 
Then chill and roll to fit the plate. Do not begin to put the 
pie together, until the upper crust has been prepared and 
chilled. 



PIE MAKING 475 



CREAM PASTRY (FOR SMALL MEAT PIES, ETC.) 

2 cups of flour. Shortening. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. Cream as Jieeded, or 

1-2 a teaspoonful of baking- Yolks of two eggs and 

powder. Milk as needed. 

1-4 a cup of butter or other shortening. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder; with the 
tips of the fingers, or a knife, work the shortening into the- 
flour, then mix to a dough with cream or with the yolks of the 
eggs, beaten and diluted with milk. Cover the outside of 
the tins, which should flare somewhat, with paste, and prick 
with a fork. Shape a cover; decorate with bits of paste, 
brush the under side of the decorations with water and put in 
place and bake; remove from the tins, fill, put the cover in 
place and serve. 

POTATO PASTRY (FOR MEAT PIES) 

2 cups of flour. 1-2 a cup of shortening. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. i cup of cold mashed potato. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking- Milk as needed, 
powder: 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder; with the 
tips of the fingers, or a knife, work in the shortening, then the 
mashed potato ; add milk to make a soft dough ; turn on to a 
floured board, handle as little as possible, pat and roll out to 
fit the top of a dish filled with cooked meat, prepared for a 
meat pie. If desired the dish may be lined with the pastry 
and brushed over with the white of egg, before the meat is 
put in place. Roll the pastry about one-fourth or three- 
eighths an inch thick. 

PIE MAKING 

Use a perforated pie plate of tin or agate ware. Roll out 
a portion of paste, prepared by one of the preceding recipes, 
into a circular piece one-eighth an inch thick and a little 
larger than the plate; put the paste on the tin so as to exclude 



476 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

air from beneath. Do not stretch the paste; if it shrinks, 
so that it does not cover the plate loosely, roll again into a 
thinner sheet, as the paste will shrink even more when put 
into the oven. Brush over the surface with white of egg 
beaten slightly, that the liquid from the filling may not pene- 
trate the paste. Put in the filling, brush over the edge of the 
pastry with cold water and spread a second round of paste, 
cut a little larger than the pie plate, loosely over the filling; 
lightly press the edge upon the moistened edge of the first 
paste and trim if needed. Cut several slits, in the top crust 
before putting it in place, to supply a vent for the steam while 
cooking. Bake in a slow oven from thirty-five to forty-five 
minutes. The pastry needs be well browned. If a glaze be 
desired, beat the yolk of an egg, add a tablespoonful of water 
and half a tablespoonful of sugar and beat again. Dip a 
soft brush into this mixture, lightly brush over the top crust 
and return to the oven; or this may be done before the pie 
is set into the oven. When desired, a rim, a long strip of 
paste three-fourths an inch wide, may be placed loosely be- 
tween the two criists. Brush the edge of the under crust 
with cold water before putting on the rim, also the rim before 
laying the upper crust ; press together lightly. 

PIE WITH ONE CRUST 

Paste for a custard, pumpkin or squash pie needs be mixed 
quite stiff. Cut the paste nearly an inch larger than for the 
under crust of a pie with two crusts. Spread upon the plate 
as before, — always using a perforated tin, — then fold under 
the edge of the paste all the way round, so that, when the 
double fold is. brought to an upright position, the cut edge 
will meet the plate. This double fold of paste will be larger 
or fuller than the plate and may be fluted with the thumb 
and finger, taking care to press each "flute " close to the plate 
at the bottom. Many cooks prefer suet, or part cottolene and 
part suet, for a crust of this kind, as a firm paste will best 
hold a given shape. Fill the crust with the prepared filling 
and bake as before. 




B<««.«KSi6&-iSl 



PATTIES FILLED WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS IN BECHAMEL SAUCE. 
(See pages 308 and 488.) 




CRANBERRY PIE, (See paRes 477 and 479.) 




VOL-AU-VENT BAKED OVER A F(JRM. (See page 4S7.) 



ETHERIAL APPLE PIE 477 



PIE WITH ONE CRUST, NO. 2 

Sometimes the crust may be baked and then filled with 
a cooked filling. Some of the features that make pastry 
objectionable are thereby obviated. Invert a perforated 
pie plate, and cover the outside with pastry, cut to fit the 
plate ; trim if needed and set on a tin sheet to keep the edge 
of the paste from touching the floor of the oven; prick the 
top of the crust with a fork, that it may rise evenly, and bake 
about fifteen minutes, or until thoroughly cooked. Slip the 
crust from the outside, and put in place as an undercrust. 
Put in the cooked filling, ornament with figures cut from 
pastry and baked, or cover with a round of crust baked sepa- 
rately, or with a meringue. 

APPLE AND PEACH PIES 

To prepare fresh apples or peaches for pies with two crusts, 
pare the fruit and cut in slices; mix the sugar, salt and spices, 
if used, and sprinkle over the apples in the pie ; dot here and 
there with bits of butter. From half to a whole cup of sugar, 
according to size of plate and tartness of fruit, will be needed. 
Dried or evaporated fruit needs be soaked in. cold water over 
night, then cooked quickly in hot water. For putting the 
pies together, see General Directions, pages 475 and 476. 

ETHERIAL APPLE PIE (RUSSIAN RECIPE, 
ALIN^ P. DELANO) 

Bake eight large tart apples, pass them through a sieve 
into a large bowl, chill, then add three-fourths a cup of sugar 
and the whites of five eggs, beaten dry, with a few grains of 
salt. Beat the mixture until very white and light and bake 
in a buttered pudding-dish about twenty minutes. Serve 
hot with cream and sugar. Cooked prunes, apricots, peaches 
or berries, passed through a sieve, may be substituted for the 
apples. From one-fourth to 'one-half a pound of prunes will 
be needed; the quantity is largely a matter of taste. The 
same quantity of chopped dates or figs, stewed with a little 
water, may be used.. 



478 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



"MOTHER'S APPLE PIE" 

Fill the space between the crusts with apples, sliced thin, 
rounding up the slices so as to make a very full pie ; add two 
or three tablespoonfuls of water and bake in a slow oven. 
When done, with a sharp knife, cut around the pie between 
the two crusts and carefuly lift off the upper crust. To the 
apples add half a cup or more of sugar, a few grains of salt, 
a tablespoonful of butter, and a grating of nutmeg; mix 
thoroughly with a silver spoon or knife, spread evenly over 
the crust, replace the upper crust, pressing it down to meet 
the apple, if necessary, and sift powdered sugar over the top. 
Serve when slightly cooled with cream and sugar. 

PRUNE PIE (CHICOPEE, MASS., RECIPE) 

3-4 a pound of prunes. The juice of half a lemon. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Let the prunes soak in cold water over night; stew until 
tender, let cool, and remove the stones. Arrange them in the 
crust, add the sugar, butter, lemon juice, salt, flour, and juice 
from the prunes, which should have been reduced in cooking 
the prunes. 

GREEN TOMATO PIE 

Green tcmatoes. The juice of half a lemon. 

1-2 a cup or more of sugar. i tablespoonful of butter. 

A few grains of salt. 

Slice the tomatoes into the under crust: add the other 
ingredients, cover with paste and cook as an apple pie. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

Beat two eggs until whites and yolks are well mixed; beat 
into these one cup of sugar, and then one cup of cranberries, 
cut in halves, and a scant half a teaspoonful of salt. Bake 
with two crusts. 

CRANBERRY PIE OR MOCK CHERRY PIE 

■Chop together one cup of cranberries and half a cup of 
raisins; add one cup of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of flour. 



LEMON FANCHONETTES 479 

mixed together, then half a cup of cold water. Bake with 
two crusts. 

CRANBERRY PIE, NO. 2 

Mix one-fourth a cup" of cornstarch with two cups of sugar; 
pour over one cup of boiling water and stir until boiling, then 
add half a cup of molasses, half a teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of butter, and one quart of cranberries, chopped 
fine. Bake with two crusts. This quantity will suffice for 
two pies. Or cook the filling fifteen minutes and finish as 
"pie with one crust. No. 2." page 477. 

PINEAPPLE PIE (TWO CRUSTS) 

Mix together thoroughly one-fourth a cup of flour and 
three-fourths a cup of sugar; add one cup of grated pulp and 
juice of pineapple; stir and cook until the mixture boils and 
becomes thick, then remove from the fire and add one egg, 
well beaten. 

PINEAPPLE FANCHONETTES (RICH) 

Beat together three eggs, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, 
two-thirds a cup of sugar, half a cup of grated pineapple, 
and the grated rind and juice of half a lemon ; turn the mixture 
into patty-pans, lined with plain pastry, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. When, partly cold remove from the pans, cover 
with a meringue and return to the oven about eight minutes. 
Fit the paste to one pan, remove and cut from paper an 
exact pattern, by which the others may be cut. If small 
' fluted tins are used, press the paste lightly, but closely, to the 
tin, so that when removed from the tins the paste will be per- 
fect in shape. Tins for pastry do not require to be buttered 
or oiled. 

LEMON FANCHONETTES 

Invert "patty-pans" and cover the outside with plain or 
puff paste; prick the paste on the top and sides with a fork, 
set the small tins on a baking-sheet and thoroughly bake the 
crust. Remove from the tins and fill with lemon filling. 
Beat the whites of two eggs until dry, add gradually two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, then fold in lightly two table- 



48o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

spoonfuls of powdered sugar; spread the meringue over the 

tops of the fanchonettes. Brown delicately in a very slow 

oven. 

LEMON FILLING FOR FANCHONETTES 

Moisten two tablespoonfuls and a half of cornstarch with 
a little cold water and stir into a cup of boiling water; let boil 
two or three minutes, then cook over hot water (double- 
boiler) ten minutes ; add a teaspoonful of butter and a cup of 
sugar; remove the mixture from the fire, add the juice of a 
large lemon (grated rind also, if desired) and the yolks of two 
eggs, well beatep. 

LEMON CUSTARD PIE 

Beat the yolks of three eggs until light and thick; add 
gradually one cup of fine granulated sugar and, one at a time, 
the unbeaten whites of two eggs. Beat one-fourth a cup of 
butter to a cream and add to this, gradually, the egg mixture, 
also the juice of two small lemons, together with the grated 
rind of one. Cook, Stirring constantly, over hot water, until 
the mixture thickens; set aside to cool, while the crust is 
baked over an inverted tin plate. Prick the paste here and 
there with a fork, that it may rise evenly. When baked slide 
from the tin on to a plate, pour in the filling, cover with a 
meringue, and serve when thoroughly cold. @ 

ORANGE PIE (MRS. COL. DIMON) 

Cream one-fourth a cup of butter; add three-fourths a cup 
of sugar, the juice of an orange and half the grated rind, 
together with the juice of half a lemon ; beat until light, then 
add the beaten yolks of three eggs and the "white of one, beaten 
until light. Bake with one crust. When partly cooled cover 
with a meringue made of the stiff -beaten whites of two eggs, 
to which three level tablespognfuls of powdered sugar have 
been added gradually, and then two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
folded in. Brown delicately in the oven. 

FILLING FOR PUMPKIN PIE 

Select a sweet pumpkin ; they are small in size, and of a deep- 
yellow color. Cut in halves, remove the seeds, cut in rings, 




LEMON FANCHONETTES. (See paue 479.) 




STRAWBERRY VOL-AU-VENT. MERINGUE DECORATION. 
(See page 401.) 




PUMPKIN PIE. (Sec rages 47(1 and 4S0.) 



CUSTARD PIE . 481 ' 

remove the rind, and cut in small pieces. Steam until the 
pumpkin is soft and the water nearly evaporated. A slow 
fire is needed for the last part of the process, which is quite 
lengthy. Press the pulp through a sieve. To each cup and 
a half of the prepared pumpkin add one cup of milk and half 
a cup of rich, sweet cream, scalded, one egg, well beaten, a 
generous half-cup of sugar, and one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, 
of salt and mace. Mix together thoroughly. Bake slowly. 

PUMPKIN FANCHONETTES 

Mix together one cup and a half of dry, sifted pumpkin, 
half a cup of sugar, two eggs, slightly beaten, two tablespoon- 
fuls of molasses, one tablespoonful of ginger, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, a scant 
half a teaspoonful of salt and one cup of rich milk. Pour 
into small tins, lined with pastry, and bake about twenty-five 
minutes. If baked as a pie forty-five minutes in the oven will 
be needed. 

SQUASH PIE (MRS. TRACEY, N. Y.) 

I cup of sifted squash. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1 cup of sugar. i cup of double cream. 

Cinnamon, ginger, mace or 3 eggs beaten without separating. 

Nutmeg as desired. 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 

Mix the ingredients and bake in a plate lined with puff 
paste. Reheat before serving. 

SQUASH PIE, NO. 2 

Mix together one cup of steamed-and-strained squash, half 
a cup, each, of milk and cream, half a cup of sugar, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth a teaspoonful of mace, or 
cinnamon, and one whole egg and the yolk of another, or half 
a cup of cracker-crumbs. Bake in a plate, lined with pastry, 
about forty minutes. 

CUSTARD PIE 

Beat four eggs until a spoonful can be held; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and two- thirds a cup of sugar, beat again, 



482 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and when well mixed beat in two cups and a half of milk. 
Turn into a deep plate, lined with pastry as for pumpkin pie. 
Bake in a slow oven until the custard is firm in the centre. 

FIG PIE 

Cook half a pound of figs, cooked and chopped fine, with the 
water in which they were cooked, reduced to half a cup, and 
half a cup of cider, until smooth ; turn into a plate lined with 
pastry ; when baked cover with a meringue and return to the 
oven to cook the meringue. Boiled cider or lemon juice may 
be used instead of the uncopked cider. A little sugar may be 
required in some cases. 

RHUBARB PIE 

Bake the crust on an inverted pie plate (see page 477). 
To prepare the filling, cut the rhubarb into inch lengths; 
put a layer into a saucepan and sprinkle with sugar; add 
other layers of rhubarb and sugar and cook till tender, using 
one cup of sugar to each pound of rhubarb. To each scant 
pint of cooked rhubarb add the juice of half a lemon and the 
Well-beaten yolks of two eggs ; pour the mixture into the baked 
crust, and set in the oven until the eggs have thickened the 
mixture. Spread a meringue made of the two whites of eggs 
over the top of the rhubarb and brown delicately in the oven. 

BERRY PIES (FRESH BERRIES) 

To a scant pint of berries add two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
half a cup or more of sugar, and a scant half a teaspoonful of 
salt ; mix and put into the plate lined with pastry ; add bits of 
butter here and there, finish with a second crust and bake in a 
very slow oven. Brush the paste with white of egg before 
putting in the berries. Brush the edge of the under crust 
with water, before the edge of the upper crust is pressed upon 
it; brush the two edges together with water, but even with 
this precaution the juice is liable to leak out. 

BERRY PIES (PRESERVED FRUIT) 

Pies with canned berries are usually made in the same way 
as those with fresh fruit. When preserves are used, the 



MINCE MEAT 483 

pastry, either plain or puff paste, should be cooked before the 
filling is added. 

DATE PIE 

Remove the seeds from the dates ; stew in a small quantity 
of water until soft enough to strain through a colander. To 
one cup and a half of date pulp, add one egg, beaten slightly, 
a scant half-teaspoonful, each, of salt and cinnamon, and one 
cup and a half of milk. Bake with an under crust only. 
MIXTURE FOR MINCE PIES 
4 pounds of cooked beef, chopped •> pounds of suet, chopped fine. 

fine. By measure, twice the quantity 

I pound of sugar. . of chopped apple. 

1 quart of molasses. 3 pints of boiled cider. 

4 quinces, chopped fine, or 1-2 a pound of citron, cut fine. 

2 glasses of quince jelly. 2 pounds of currants. 

3 pounds of large seedless raisins. 2 lemons, juice and grated rind. 
6 oranges, juice and grated rind. i grated nutmeg. 

1 tablespoonful, each, of ground i teaspoonful of ground cloves. 

cinnamon and mace. About two tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Let the meat cool in the water in which it was cooked ; add 
the other ingredients and, if more liquid is needed, use the 
broth from the meat. Fill the crust without previously cook- 
ing the mixture. Heat the rest of the mixture gradually, 
stirring often; let simmer an hour, then store in fruit jars as 
canned fruit. Puff paste is quite often used for the upper 
crust of mince pies. When baked brush over the crust with 
yolk of egg diluted with a little milk, sprinkle with sugar and 
return to the oven to glaze. Bake a generous hour. 

MINCE MEAT 

3 pounds of uncooked steak, top 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, 
of the round. i 1-2 pounds of kidney suet. 

5 pounds of pared-and-cored i teaspoonful of cloves. 

apples. I pound of raisins. 

2 tablespoonfuls of mace. i pound of currants. 

I tablespoonful of salt. 3 pints of boiled cider. 

I 1-2 pints of molasses. i pound of sugar. 

1-2 a pound of citron. i nutmeg. 

6 oranges. 2 lemons. 

Syrup from sweet pickle jar, jelly and preserves ad libittim. 



484 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Pass the meat, the suet, and the apples through the food 
chopper, and add the other ingredients: the raisins seeded, 
currants cleaned, and citron cut in thin slices. Use the grated 
rind and juice of the oranges. Mix thoroughly. Make up 
several pies without previously cooking the mixture. Bake 
an hour in a moderate oven. Scald and store the remainder in 
fruit jars. 

PUFF PASTE 

Wash thoroughly a mixing-bowl, and the hands, or a wooden 
spatula, first in hot, then in cold water. Fill the bowl with 
cold water or let stand under the faucet and work in the water 
half a pound, or one cup, of butter, until it becomes smooth 
and pliable ; then pat, until it is absolutely free from water, 
and shape into a flat, square cake. If the room be cool, do 
not chill the' butter on ice, since the use of ice is to be avoided 
if possible. Sift together half a pound, or two cups, of flour 
and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt; reserve two spoonfuls of 
flour in the dredger for dusting the board, mix the flour to a 
soft dough, toss on the board and knead until smooth and 
elastic; cover and let stand from three to five minutes, then 
pat and roll out into a rectangular shape 













Butter 











Fig. I. 

Put the piece of butter in the centre of the lower half of 
the paste and fold the other half over it, letting the edge "a" 
fall on "b". Press the edges together closely on the open 



PUFF PASTE 



485 



side and ends to keep in the air. Figure 2 now represents the 
paste; "a" represents the butter beneath a layer of paste. 



a 



Fig. 

Fold the end marked " i " under, and the end marked " 2 " 
over the paste, enclosing the butter, and press the edges to- 
gether closely. Cover and let stand from three to five minutes. 
Turn the paste half way round, pat gently with the pin, thus 
pressing the paste together in ridges and breaking up into 
smaller bubbles the enclosed air; roll out into a long strip, 
keeping the butter enclosed in the paste and the ends and sides 
even, as herein, in large measure, lies the success of the under- 
taking. 




Pig- 3- 



Fold the end marked "i" over "3," and "2" over "i," 
making three even layers with straight edges ; press the edges 
together and turn the paste half way round, so as to roll in 
the opposite direction. Since the butter was enclosed, the 
paste has been rolled into a long strip and folded "in three. " 
This rolling and folding is called ' ' giving it one turn. ' ' Repeat 
until the paste has been given six turns. Each time, before 
rolling the paste, turn it half way round, having an open end 
towards you, so as to roll the paste from a different side each 
time. Cut out, as desired, and let chill thoroughly on ice; 
it will take about half an hour. Bake on the lower floor of 
the civen. 



486 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

This gives a pastry in which the layers are very distinct. 
If two tablespoonfuls of butter be worked into the flour before 
the water is added, a tender crust will result; but the layers 
will not be distinct as by the first method. In rolling out the 
paste, take care lest the butter penetrate the dough. As long 
as the paste slips upon the board or slab, it is in good condition. 
Never roll back and forth, as the motion will break the bubbles 
of air, which are to give the paste its lightness. The folding 
of the paste gives the layers ; the cold air enclosed, on expand- 
ing in the heat of the oven, gives the lightness. 

If the room be cool, this condition may be easily secured; 
in winter the paste may be quickly made, and without the 
use of ice. But if the paste does not slip on the slab and 
shows signs of softening, it should be folded in a napkin and 
chilled in a pan set between two pans of ice. Having been 
chilled once, it will require chilling between each two "turns, " 
or, in the case of a novice, after each turn. 

BAKING PUFF PASTE 

Ice cold pastry and a very hot oven, especially on the bot- 
tom, are prime requisites when light puflE paste is the article 
under consideration. When properly made and set upon 
the hot floor of the oven, the sudden expansion of the cold air 
enclosed between the layers sends up the paste. The top of 
the paste needs be protected from the heat above by a paper 
or sheet of tin, until the paste has attained its full height. 
Paste, cut one-fourth an inch thick, should rise about two 
inches in height. Turn, if necessary, that it may rise evenly. 
To avoid burning on the bottom, when the paste is well risen, 
very gently push a second sheet under that on which the paste 
is baking. 

SHAPING AND BAKING VOL-AU-VENTS 

Vol-au-vents are generally shaped in one of three ways, 
each of which has its advocates. 

VOL-AU-VENT WITH RIM 

Have the paste rolled out into a sheet half an inch thick; 
with a charlotte mould as a pattern mark out upon it an oval 



VOL-AU-VENT BAKED OVER A FORM 487 

of the size desired; then with a sharp knife, dipped in hot 
water, cut out the pastry, lay on a piece of double paper on a 
baking sheet. Cut out a second piece of paste of same thick- 
ness and size ; then, with a small charlotte mould as guide, 
cut out the centre, leaving a rim an inch and a quarter wide; 
brush the edge of the first paste with cold water and press the 
rim upon it. Set "aside to chill. Bake about an hour. (See 
Baking of Puff Paste.) Roll out the pieces, cut out in making 
the rim, to the size of the other pieces of paste, giving it the 
same shape ; ornament this with figures cut from the trimmings 
and brush over the under side of each bit of paste with water 
before pressing it in place; chill and bake about twenty-five 
minutes. This will serve for a cover. 

VOL-AU-VENT BAKED IN ONE PIECE 

Roll the paste to the thickness of one inch nearly, and cut 
out in the shape desired ; then with the point of a sharp knife, 
wet in hot water, cut half way through, an inch and a quarter 
from the edge, all around the paste ; brush the top with beaten 
yolk of egg, or beaten egg, chill and bake. Remove the centre 
carefully and set aside. Serve with or without this piece as 
the cover. Carefully remove any uncooked paste before filling 
the vol-au-vent. 

VOL-AU-VENT BAKED OVER A FORM 

?or a large vol-au-vent make two pounds of puff paste, 
using three-fourths a pound of butter to a pound of flour. 
Roll one-third of this into a sheet (oval or round as suits the 
fa,ncy) one-third an inch thick, and trim to the desired shape 
and size. Scallop the edge or leave it plain. Put the paste 
upon the baking-sheet and spread over it a large piece of 
cheesecloth. Roll excelsior into small balls and place these 
closely together on the cloth, about three inches from the 
edge, one layer above another, and each layer smaller than 
the one below, to give shape to the vol-au-vent. Pin the 
cloth smoothly about these, then roll out the rest of the paste 
into a sheet one-fourth an inch thick. Cut off two or three 
fourth-inch ribbons of paste, also crescent and diamond 



488 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

shaped pieces for decoration, and roll the rest of the paste a 
little thinner, then spread it over the cloth filled with excelsior, 
— first lightly scoring the paste all round about six inches 
from the centre to indicate a cover, — trim the paste to meet 
loosely the under crust, brush with water and press the upper 
crust firmly upon it. Brush the crust on both sides of scoring 
with cold water, and press upon it the ribbons of paste. 
Brush the under sides of the crescent and diamond-shaped 
pieces with cold water, and put them in place inside of the 
ribbons. Let chill half an hour on ice, then put into a hot 
oven, protecting the top of the pie. When well risen, reduce 
the temperature of the oven and bake, in all, about forty 
minutes. When cooled slightly, with a sharp knife cut around 
the crust, in the scorings between the ribbons, and take off 
the cover. Draw the pin from the cloth, and remove the ex- 
celsior, the cloth and any uncooked paste. When ready to 
serve, reheat and fill with chicken or game heated in a hot 
sauce. Chicken may be in large pieces, from which the bones 
have been taken, or in cubes of the size used in filling patty- 
cases. Three chickens will be needed to fill a pie of this size. 
If the pie is to be served cold, it may be filled with bits of 
chicken and aspic jelly. The jelly should be cold, but not qtiite 
set, when it is turned into the pie alternately with the meat. 
Cubes of tongue and cooked mushrooms may also be added. 
PATTY SHELLS 
Roll the paste to one-fourth an inch in thickness; cut into 
rounds with a fluted or plain cutter, dipped in flour; cut out 
the centres from half the rounds, brush over the edges of the 
whole rounds with cold water and press the rings upon them ; 
chill on ice or in a cool place and bake about twenty-five 
minutes. (See Baking of Puff Paste.) Bake' the centres cut 
from the rings for covers. French patty cutters are pur- 
chasable that will give a clean, sharp cut (one edge cuts the 
rounds, the other, the centres giving the rings). The paste 
may be rolled half an inch thick; cut in rounds, then cut half 
lyay through these with the small cutter. When baked lift 
off the inner paste for a cover and remove any uncooked pasie 
beneath before filling. 



LADY LOCKS 489 

ORANGE CROUTONS 

Cut small rounds from puff paste, chill and bake; spread 
orange curd between each two, sandwich fashion : sprinkle the 
top with' powdered sugar or cover with confectioner's or 
waiter frosting. (Page 460.) 

ORANGE CURD 

1-4 a cup of butter. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

The juice and grated rind of one 2 ounces of candied orange peel if 
orange. desired. 

The yolks of three eggs. 

Melt the sugar and butter; add the juice and grated rind, 
and when hot stir gradually into the yolks, beaten thick: 
stir and cook until the mixture thickens : use hot or cold. 

BANBURY TARTS 

I cup of raisins. i cup of sugar. 

14a pound of citron. The juice and grated rind of one 

I egg. lemon. 

Stone the raisins and chop with the citron very fine : add the 
grated rind and juice of the lemon, also the sugar, crumbs and 
egg, slightly beaten. 

Roll puflE paste one-eighth an inch thick and cut in rounds 

between three and four inches in diameter. Put a little of 

the mixture on each piece ; moisten one-half the edge with cold 

water and fold over the pastry, pressing the dry edge upon the 

half that is moistened very closely. Bake about twenty-five 

minutes in a slow oven. A cracker, pounded fine, and the 

juice (only) of a second lemon may be added. This gives a 

less rich mixture. 

LADY LOCKS 

Roll puff-paste one-eighth an inch thick and cut in long 
strips three-fourths an inch wide ; wind around wooden lady- 
lock sticks or forms, leaving a narrow space between the lines 
of paste; trim the ends even with the sticks. Bake on a tin 
in a slow oven; remove the curls from the sticks and when 
cool fill with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored before 
whipping. 



490 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

VIENNA WHIPPED CREAM ROLL (COOK'S RESTAURANT) 

Roll puff paste into strips four inches wide. Putter tin or 
hardwood cylinders about one inch in diameter and four 
inches long. Cut the strips of paste into pieces to fit the 
cylinders. Brush over one side of each piece of paste with 
white of egg or water, and press this side upon the first upon 
the cylinder, so that when baked and removed from the tin 
hollow cylinders of paste will be formed. Bake on a tin sheet 
in a slow oven. When cold cover the outside with chocolate 
frosting (confectioner's, boiled, or fondant) and when ready 
to serve fill the centres with sweetened-and-flavored cream, 
beaten stiff. 

CHEESE BOUCHEES 

Bake small patties of puff paste, about an inch and a half 
in diameter. When ready to serve, reheat and fill with the 
following cheese preparation : Sprinkle the cheese with fine- 
chopped parsley and replace the covers (pieces of paste cut 
out to form the patties, or the centres removed after the 
patties are baked). Serve very hot as a "savory," either at 
the beginning or end of dinner. 

CREAM CHEESE FOR BOUCHEES 

Let half a cup of Bechamel sauce (white sauce with chicken 
stock and cream, half and half, as the liquid), half a cup of 
cream, a few grains of paprika, and one-fourth a pound of 
Cheddar or Gruyere cheese, sliced very thin, stand over hot 
water until the cheese is melted, then beat thoroughly, and 
serve at once as filling for bouchees. The addition of one or 
two beaten yolks of eggs gives a thicker filling. 

MIRLITONS 

The yolks of four eggs. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

The whites of two eggs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of orange extract. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-4 a cup of melted butter. 

1-4 a pound of crushed maca- Powdered sugar, 

roons. Puff paste. 

Beat the yolks, add the sugar, salt, macaroons, extract, and 
melted butter, then the whites of the eggs, beaten until foamy. 



STRAWBERRY TARTLETS 491 

Turn into about thirty tartlet moulds lined with puff paste, 
sift powdered sugar over the top and bake in a slow oven. 
Serve hot or cold. 

STRAWBERRY VOL-AU-VENT 

Roll half a pound of puff paste into a thin sheet. Cut out 
an oval piece for a bottom and three oval rims, prick with a 
fork, chill and bake as usual. When baked spread the edge 
of the bottom piece lightly with strawberry preserves or me- 
ringue and press a rim upon it, and so continue until the rims 
are used. Make a meringue with the whites of two eggs and 
one-fourth a cup of sugar, and with this decorate the edges 
of the case; sprinkle with sugar and return to the oven on a 
baking-sheet; the heat should be very moderate so that the 
meringue will not take color in less than six minutes. Whein 
the meringue is delicately browned, remove to a serving-dish 
and fill the open space with sugared strawberries. Other 
fruit, either cooked or uncooked, may be used and whipped 
cream may be added to the top. The pastry may be kept 
several days after baking, reheating it before filling. 

STRAWBERRY HEARTS 

Roll puff paste trimmings into a sheet one-third an inch 
thick, and with a heart-shaped cutter, dipped into hot water, 
stamp into hearts. Score the top of each piece with a small 
round cutter, then prick with a' fork, let chill and bake as 
usual. When baked cut out the centres, where they were 
scored, and fill with sugared berries. Decorate with whipped 
cream. 

STRAWBERRY TARTLETS 

Cut out rounds of puff paste, and when set in the baking- 
pan pipe a round of chou paste around the edges. Prick the 
paste with a fork in several places, then bake as usual. When 
baked fill the centres with fresh strawberries, sugared, or 
spread with strawberry preserves. Garnish with whipped 
cream. 



492 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



MELBA TARTS 



Make the pastry in the same manner as for strawberry 
tartlets. When baked spread the inside with a thin layer of 
quince marmalade, or use a mixture of two-thirds of quince 
marmalade and one-third of English cream. (See page 588.) 



CFFFEE TARTS 



Prepare the pastry as for Melba tarts, and fill the open space 
with cofiEee cream. Garnish with whipped cream. 



CHAPTER XIX 
Puddings and Dessert Dishes 

" I am glad that my Adonis hath a sweet tooth in his head. ". 

{liquid and 
starch or 
gelatine, 
f lightness 
6. Eggs added for •< consistency 
1^ food value. 

c. Fruit or equivalent for flavor. 

d. Suet, butter, cream for richness or whipped cream for lightness, 

o . • j; , (in foundation or 

e. sweet in some form as sugar or molasses •< 

( sauce. 

/. Garnishes. 

Sweets compose the last course of a dinner or luncheon. 
In this course are included cake, pastry, and hot and cold 
puddings, etc., which Thudicum speaks of as the "forerunner 
of the dessert. " In this course also are included custards, 
charlottes, creams, jellies, and ices, in the preparation of the 
more delicate of which form is often placed before substance. 
The dessert proper includes fruit, fresh or preserved, nuts, 
and bon-bons; it is often succeeded by a tiny morsel in the 
nature of a hot or cold savory, or of cheese. 

When sweets are presented, hunger has been appeased and 
the dishes should be light in character and elegant in appear- 
ance. If more than one dish be presented in this course, as 
it may be at an elaborate and formal dinner, the more sub- 
stantial dish precedes the more delicate and the hot precedes 
the cold dish. 

Puddings in which suet is used are appropriate only after 
an otherwise light meal and during cold weather. These and 
other puddings of similar nature are not in as great demand 

493 



494 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

as formerly, the tendency of the time being in favor of more 
easily digested sweets. Those in which cream predominates 
are especial favorites. 

In the past, the American housewife, as a rule, has paid 
quite as much attention to the sweet as to the substantial 
part of the dinner, but, with our present pronounced leaning 
toward French cookery and bills of fare, we are likely in time 
to give less prominence to the sweet course and finish the 
refection, be it luncheon or dinner, with a salad and bit 
of cheese. The desserts served so often in this country, in 
which cream abounds, are rare in France, also in the southern 
part of the continent. Indped, except, perhaps, among a cer- 
tain class in Russia, there is no country where food supplies 
' are generally so lavishly used as in the United States. 

The foundation of hot puddings is liquid and some starchy 
material, as rice, tapioca, cornstarch, cereal, breadcrumbs, 
etc., etc. The foundation of most cold puddings is the same; 
or, instead of the starchy principle, gelatine is used to give 
consistency. To any pudding, hot or cold, eggs may be added 
for lightness or to increase the consistency or food value ; fruit 
or its equivalent for flavor, suet (in hot) butter or cream for 
richness ; and in cold puddings cream is also used for lightness. 
Two ounces of starchy material or one ounce of gelatine will 
thicken a pint of liquid. 

STARCHY MATERIALS 

Cornstarch, rice, tapioca (minute, quick cooking and 
"tapioca exotique"), macaroni, and breadcrumbs (stale bread 
passed through a colander) are the principal starchy ingred- 
ients in puddings. Tapioca is stirred into the hot liquid and 
is cooked when it becomes transparent. 

If grains be used, the pudding is cooked when the grains 
are tender. If arrowroot, cornstarch, rice-flour, etc., are used, 
these, mixed smoothly with milk or evenly with sugar, need 
be cooked in the hot liquid until they clear from the sides 
of the saucepan. Cooked less, though they may jelly when 
cold, they have an uncooked pasty taste. These puddings, 
though often cooked in the oven, will be smoother and require 



RAISINS AND CURRANTS 495 

less attention, if they be cooked in a double-boiler and then 
turned into a buttered baking-dish and set into the oven for 
final cooking. 

GELATINE 

The gelatines on the market at the present time are par- 
ticularly good. They are practically odorless when heated; 
if liot select a different brand. The granulated gelatines, 
which may be easily and accurately measured, soften in cold 
water very quickly and may then be dissolved in a little hot 
water or in the hot mixture. In cold weather gelatine dishes 
will set in half an hour if exposed to the outer air; in summer 
ice is essential to quick process. 

CHOCOLATE 

The judicious use of chocolate changes many an otherwise 
homely and unappetizing dessert into a bonne bouche desired 
by every one. 

Chocolate for use in cooking is bought in half-pound cakes 
scored in eight bars or squares, each one of which represents 
an ounce. Vanilla aind cinnamon are the two flavors that 
best harmonize with chocolate. Stick cinnamon, scalded 
in the milk, and used as the foundation of any dish in which 
chocolate is to be used, insures an added richness and spiciness 
of flavor that is invariably commended. Ground cinnamon 
is often more convenient, but in either case let it be of the 
best grade. Currant jelly, apricot marmalade, nuts, and 
candied fruits, steeped in wine, are palatable additions to any 
dish in which chocolate appears. To use chocolate, put it in 
a saucepan over hot water, and when melted add a table- 
spoonful or more of sugar and two or three of boiling water, 
and stir and boil until a smooth glossy liquid is formed, then 
add to hot milk or other ingredients. 

RAISINS AND CURRANTS 

Raisins may be stoned with a utensil made for the purpose, 
or with a pair of scissors. They stone more easily after soak- 
ing in water a few moments. Sultanas are without seeds and 
excellent in flavor. 



496 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FLAVORING 

Extracts and wines used for flavoring, whenever possible, 
should be added to the preparation after it has been cooked 
and become cold. Flavors may be considered as luxuries, 
but used occasionally they afford pleasure and a simple means 
of varying an oftentimes monotonous dietary- Only extracts 
made from fruits and nuts, or the real vanilla bean, should be 
used. All others are harmful. Select the goods of reliable 
and well known manufacturers, and use no others. The 
vanilla bean is sometimes used instead of the extract. Part of 
a bean is scalded in the liquid to be flavored, then dried and 
kept for future use. But as the drying needs be done thor- 
oughly and with care, lest the bean become sour and mouldy, 
and as uniformity in flavor is not readily secured, the use of 
the bean is not advocated. Lemon, orange, rose, and almond 
extracts are made from the corresponding fruits, flower, and 
nut. Lemon and vanilla in combination give a pleasing flavor. 
Orange and almond, or as some say, vanilla and almond pro- 
duce a flavor- resembling pistachio nuts. The proportions 
are one-fourth of the latter to three-fourths of the former. 
Cordials as maraschino, curacao and noyau give a delicate and 
pleasing flavor to any dish to which they- may be added. 
Jamaica rum, sherry, and kirsch of good quality are much 
used in cooking. In hot dishes, cooking dissipates the small 
quantity of alcohol which they contain. Of a slightly stim- 
ulating character these are thought to be of use in stimulating 
a sluggish digestion. Mixed with fruit added to frozen des- 
serts they keep the fruit from becoming hard and frozen. 
Caramel (see page 33) gives an exceedingly pleasant and 
agreeable flavor to custards and creams. The intense heat of 
liquid caramel often causes the milk or cream to which it is 
added, even if scalded, to curdle ; when these are to be com- 
bined it is advisable to pour a few spoonfuls of boiling water 
into the caramel and stir until smooth, then pour this into the 
cream or milk. It is often combined with almonds, giving 
what is called "burnt almond" flavor. Coffee, extract or, 
better still, fresh made coffee, is a common flavorer and is 




MATERIALS FOR UliSiiiRfS. 




LACE PAPERS FOR SWEET DLSHES. (Set- page 507.) 




CHARLOTTE MOULDS IN PAN OF ICE AND WATER. DOUBLE MOULDING. 

(Set- paRc 27fi ) 



LINING OF CHARLOTTE MOULDS 497 

generally acceptable. Here strength should not be sought 
for in long steeping or boiling. (See Coffee Making.) 

LIST OF GARNISHES FOR DESSERTS, ETC. 

Whipped cream. 

Fruit : fresh, purees, compote, canned, or candied, (Maras- 
chino cherries, cooked figs, prunes, raisins, etc.) 

Fruit jellies, cut in figures or chopped. 

Ivory jelly (sweetened cream and gelatine) cut in fanciful 
shapes. 

Angelica, cut in pieces, leaves, stems, etc., (green in color). 

Preserved ginger, whole pieces or slices cut in figures. 

Preserved chestnuts, whole or in pieces. 

Almonds, pistachio nuts, English walnuts, and pecan nuts. 

LINING OF MOULDS WITH LADY-FINGERS FOR 
CHARLOTTE MOULDS 

Fit a strip of oiled or parafifine paper into the mould length- 
wise, letting the ends hang out over the top; then fit a strip 
into the mould crosswise, letting the ends hang out as before. 
Ascertain the length of the lady-finger needed to come just 
to the top of the mould and trim them all to this length ; put 
the fingers into the mould on the paper with the upper side 
towards the paper. Let the edges of the fingers just meet 
or leave a uniform space between them. Carefully put a 
spoonful of the charlotte mixture at the base of each finger 
to hold it in place; straighten the fingers and fill the mould 
with care. 



CHAPTER XX 
Cold Dessert Dishes 



SYNOPSIS OF CHAPTER 



a. Custard Composition. < 



b. Gelatine Compositions. 



Simple ] 



Liquid. 
Firm. 



Starchy addition. Liquid. 
Simple jellies (Fruit juice, wine, etc.). 
Sponges Qellies+whipped white of egg). 
Bavaroises (Jellies-|-whipped cream-)- 
eggs occasionally) . 



Charlotte Compositions.] Cake + whipped cream. _ 

[^ Cake -|- sponges or Bavaroises. 



d. Combination of above. 

e. Syllabubs, Whips, etc. 
/. Junkets. 



Cream or cream and eggs whipped. 
Milk thickened with rennet principle. 

CUSTARDS 



Custards are compositions, in which lightly cooked milk 
and eggs predominate ; in custard of the first quality nothing 
else save sugar, salt, and flavoring is added. In preparations 
of inferior quality starchy materials take the place of a part 

of the eggs. 

TWO FORMS OF CUSTARD 

Custards are of two main characteristics, i. e. : firm or liquid. 
Firm custards are cooked while standing undisturbed in hot 
water; liquid custards are stirred during the entire process of 
cooking, the dish holding the ingredients standing meanwhile 
in hot water; in both cases the heat required is lower than 
that of boiling water. Custard is properly cooked when the 
egg is " set " by the heat just enough to insure a smooth, ten- 

498 



LIQUID OR BOILED CUSTARD 499 

der, jelly-like consistency throughout. A custard that 
curdles, or wheys, or is full of holes (either large or small), 
has been cooked at too high a temperature. A firm custard 
is cooked when, on touching the centre, it seems lightly set 
and somewhat firm. All custards become more solid on cool- 
ing. 

PROPORTION OF EGG TO MILK 

The degree of firmness to which a firm custard will set in 
cooking depends upon the proportion of eggs and tnilk ; four 
eggs to a quart of milk, or one to each cup of milk, gives a 
custard of delicate consistency; this custard needs be served 
from the dish or cup in which it is baked. For a custard firm 
enough to turn from a mould the number of eggs needs be 
multiplied by two. Royal custard, which is cut in slices and 
then stamped into figures, for use in consomm^ or other clear 
soup, calls for one egg to each tablespoonful of liquid. Whole 
eggs, whites or yolks of eggs alone, are used in custards, but 
the richest and finest grained custard results, when the yolks 
of eggs predominate. A firm custard in which yolks are used 
alone breaks very easily, and it is considered safer, jf the 
custard is to be turned from the mould, to bake it in small 
dariole moulds or to include a few whites in the mixture. 
Two yolks count as .one egg. In a liquid custard all yolks are 
preferable, unless the whites, beaten until very foamy, be 
added at the last to give a fluffy texture, considered so desir- 
able in some dishes. As eggs are added to custards siniply 
for thickening or richness, and not to produce lightness, they 
are beaten but little. 

LIQUID OR BOILED CUSTARD 

I pint of hot milk. 1-3 a cup of sugar. 

3 to six yolks of eggs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the yolks of eggs slightly; add the sugar and salt and 
beat again; dilute with a little of the hot milk and, when well 
blended, return the whole to the hot milk and cook and stir 
until the mixture thinly coats the spoon; then strain at once 



Soo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

into a cold dish. In preparing a liquid custard, a double- 
boiler or its equivalent is a positive necessity, and a fine 
strainer of some kind is essential to nice results. The mixture 
coats the spoon, when it is at the consistency of honey and 
covers the tip and back of the spoon lightly. Add the flavor- 
ing when the, custard is cold. Custard made with three yolks 
to a pint of milk is used as a sauce. More yolks are required 
when the custard is to be served in cups. 

BOILED CUSTARD, NO. 2 

I pint of milk. 1-2 a cup •of sugar. 

The yolks of three to six eggs. The whites of three eggs. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Prepare the custard as above, and, just before removing 
from the fire, fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten until very 
foamy, but not dry. Caramel, coffee, and chocolate give 
variety in flavor. 

ENGLISH CREAM (CUSTARD) 

I piijt of milk. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

The yolks of two or three eggs, 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

or I whole egg. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

I teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

Mix the cornstarch with a part of the sugar — ^the quantity 
of cornstarch may be doubled — and stir into the hot milk; 
stir until the mixture thickens and then, occasionally, for 
fifteen minutes. Beat the egg,' add the sugar and salt and 
beat again, then stir into the hot mixture; let cook a few 
moments, stirring constantly, until the egg seems cooked, 
then strain and flavor when cold. Stir occasionally while 
cooling to avoid the formation of a crust. 

ENGLISH CREAM (CUSTARD), NO. 2 

(used for filling eclairs, cream cakes and pies) 
I pint of hot milk. 2 eggs or four yolks of eggs. 

1-2 a cup of flour. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 



ST. HONORE CAKE 501 

Mix or sift together the flour, salt, and half-cup of sugar; 
dilute with the hot milk, then cook and stir over hot water 
until the mixture thickens; then cool, stirring occasionally, 
for fifteen minutes; beat the egg,' add the rest of the sugar 
and stir into the hot mixture ; stir until the egg looks cooked, 
then cool and flavor. One-fourth a cup of clear black coffee 
may be substituted for the sam« quantity of milk, or an 
ounce of chocolate, cooked with two tablespoonfuls, each, of 
sugar and water, may be added to the milk. 

ST. HONORE CREAM (CUSTARD) 

(for use in ST. HONORE CAKE, CREAM CAKES, ECLAIRS, ETC, 

I pint of milk. Grated rind of lemon. 

2-3 a cup of flour. The yolks of six eggs. 

I cup of sugar. The whites of six eggs. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Prepare as English cream No. 2, adding the grated rind of 
lemon with the flour and the whites of eggs, beaten stiff, at 
the last. 

ST. HONORE CAKE 

Cut out a round of pastry, either chopped or flaky, about 
ten inches in diameter, dispose on a baking-sheet and brush 
over the edge with cold water. Have ready some chou paste. 
(See Eclairs in chapter on Cake.) With a forcing-bag and 
plain tube half an inch in diameter press a circle of chou paste 
upon the edge of the pastry, to form a border; prick the round 
of pastry with a fork and brush over the chou paste with 
beaten egg. Bake in an oven with strong heat below about 
twenty minutes. Make small round cakes with the rest of 
the paste and bake until they feel light when taken in the 
hand. Boil a cup of sugar and half a cup of water to the crack 
stage (it will be slightly yellow or caramel color), dip the small 
cakes, one by one, into the candy and arrange them symmet- 
rically upon the border of the cake; dip preserved cherries, 
one by one, into the hot candy and dispose on the top of each 
cake. Fill the centre with cold St. Honor^ or frangipani 
cream, piling it high in the centre. Serve very cold. 



S02 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CHOCOLATE CUSTARD WITH SNOW EGGS 

2 ounces of chocolate. The yolks of six eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

3 cups of hot milk. Lady-fingers. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Snow eggs (page 514). 

Cook the chocolate, sugar, and water until glossy; add to 
the hot milk and finish as in recipe for English cream. Use the 
whites of the eggs for the snow eggs. This may be served 
without the lady-fingers in sherbet cups, a snow egg on the 
top of the castard in each cup and the egg sprinkled with 
candied cherries, chopped fine. 

TIPSY PUDDING 

Cut a stale sponge cake in slices and with them line a glass 
serving-dish; sprinkle the slices with Jamaica rum, or with 
sherry or other wine, then spread over them a l^yer of jam or 
preserved fruit; add other layers of cake and preserves until 
the dish is full. Pour over the whole a quart of cold, rich, 
boiled custard, flavored with vanilla. Garnish the dish with 
whipped cream, meringue or snow eggs. Often an ounce of 
softened gelatine is dissolved in the hot custard, and the 
layers of cake and preserves are congealed in the custard; 
then the rest of the custard is added without cake and, before 
serving, the cream or meringue is added. 

, FLOATING ISLAND 

The whites of five eggs. 1-2 a cup of prune, ifig, date or other 

1-2 a cup of sugar. purfie, or crushed almonds and 

1-4 a teaspoonful of cream of other nuts, 

tartar. Boiled custard. 

Beat the eggs until foamy; add the cream-of-tartar and 
beat until dry, adding meanwhile the fruit or nuts'. The 
fruit should have been fine chopped and cooked to a smooth 
piir^e with a little water. Turn the mixture into a large 
handsome, well-buttered mould and cook in a steamer without 
boiling the water about twenty minutes. The mixture often 



CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PUDDING' 503 

rises enormously and the mould needs be very large. When 
cold unmould in a deep dish and surround with a cold boiled 
custard. In cooling, the meringue contracts, and is unmoulded 
easily. The texture is very delicate, and the flavor, produced 
by steaming, is peculiar, but most agreeable. 

FIRM CUSTARDS 

CUP CUSTARDS (SERVED IN BAKING-DISH) 

4sggs. A grating of nutmeg. 

2-3 a cup of sugar. i quart of milk. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the eggs until the yolks and whites are well-mixed; 
add the sugar, salt, nutmeg, and milk, and stir until the sugar 
is dissolved, then strain into buttered cups or a baking-dish. 
Cook standing on several folds of paper, or on a trivet until, 
the centre is firm. 

MAPLE CUSTARD 

6 whole eggs, or three whole eggs 1-43 teaspoonful of salt, 
and six yolks. 3 cups of milk. 

1-2 a cup of heavy maple syrup. 

Make and bake as above. Baked in cups, this custard may 
be turned from the cups when cold. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PUDDING 

3 ounces of chocolate. i quart of milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 7 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of hot water. i cup of sugar. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of ground cin- 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt, 

namon. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Sugar and vanilla for meringue. 

Add the sugar, melted chocolate, hot water, and cinnamon, 
cooked until glossy, to the milk; beat the eggs, omitting the 
whites of three, add the cup of sugar, salt, and vanilla and 
strain into a buttered baking-dish. Bake as usual and cover 
with a meringue made of the whites of the eggs, reserved for 
this purpose, and one-third a cup of powdered sugar. Return 
to the oven for about eight minutes to brown the meringue. 
Serve cold. 



S04 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BAKED CUSTARD RENVERSEE OR CREAM VERSAILLES 

I quart of milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

8 eggs, or 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

4 whole eggs and eight yolks. i cup of sugar. 

Cook the cup of sugar in a small saucepan over a hot fire, 
stirriiig constantly until the, sugar melts and becomes light 
brown in color. The sugar, as it is stirred, will first resemble 
flake tapioca, then gradually melt and become brown. The 
pan needs be lifted occasionally, to prevent burning. As 
soon as the sugar is melted, turn into a three-pint mould, or 
into two. moulds of smaller size. With a towel in both hands 
tip the mould from side to side to coat the inside with the 
caramel. The mould must be handled quickly, as the caramel 
hardens quickly. Set the mould aside, while the custard is 
prepared. The caramel will crackle, but this is no disadvan- 
tage, and the mould thus prepared may be kept any length of 
time. Prepare the custard as usual and strain into the mould. 
Bake as any custard, on heavy folds of paper, and surround 
with hot water. When cold turn from the mould on to the 
serving-dish. The caramel will form a sauce around the cus- 
tard. This is one of the most delicious dishes in a cook's 
repertoire. Two ounces of melted chocolate cooked with a 
little melted sugar and water may be added to the milk of 
which the custard is made. Or the caramel may be melted 
in a little boiling water and used in the custard, instead of 
sugar, thus giving caramel custard. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD 

I cup of chestnut pur6e. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

3 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar for 

I cup of milk. meringue. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 

Add the beaten eggs, — omitting the whites of two, — grad- 
ually, to the chestnut pulp (chestnuts cooked and sifted), also 
the sugar, vanilla, and milk, and bake in a buttered mould. 
Make a meringue of the whites of the two eggs, reserved for 
the purpose, and the sugar. Spread over the custard and 



JELLIES SOS 

return to the oven to color the meringue. This custard is 
improved by a sprinkling of chopped cherries below the 
meringue. 

CHESTNUT RENVERSEE 

Bake the above mixture in a mould lined with caramel. (See 
.Custard Renvers^e.) Half a cup of sugar will make caramel 
enough to line a mould for this custard. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD 

T pound of grated pineapple. i cup of milk. 

I pound of sugar. 3 eggs. 

1-2 a pound of butter. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually, then 
the beaten eggs, the pineapple, previously scalded, and the 
cup of milk. Bake in a moderate oven, either with or without 
a crust. Serve from the dish in which it is baked. 

FRIED CUSTARD 

4 whole eggs. 6 or eight macaroons. 

The yolks of two eggs. ' 1-2 a cup of candied fruit. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. i egg and white breadcrumbs. 

T pint of milk. 

Butter and sugar a dozen moulds having about half the 
height of timbale moulds. Six-sided moulds are preferable. 
Sprinkle the bottom of the moulds with the fruit, cut in one- 
fourth inch squares and washed in hot water, and cover with 
a little powdered macaroons ; strain in a little custard mixture 
made of the other ingredients, let stand a few moments, then 
finish filling the moulds. Cook as usual surrounded by hot 
water; when cool unmould, egg-and-breadcrumb and fry a 
golden color in deep fat. Serve with Sabayon sauce. 

JELLIES 

As simple hot puddings are made by thickening milk or 
fruit juice with a starchy material, and the more complex 
varieties, by adding eggs, some form of fat, fruit, and flavors, 
so simple cold puddings may be prepared in the same way, and 
also by thickening the liquid with gelatine. When stiff- 



So6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

beaten whites of eggs or cream are added, a spongy texture is 
produced and a more complex pudding results. Thickening 
with a starchy material was taken up under hot puddings, 
and we will consider now the thickening of liquids with gela- 
tine. In desserts, fruit juice, wine or milk are the liquids 
that are to be jellied. When fresh fruits are employed, (i) 
the juice alone may be used and we have simple fruit jellies ; 
(2) the juice and pulp, freed from seeds and membrane, are 
used, and the resulting dish is called pain, as with strawberries 
pain de f raises; or {3) juice and whole sections of the same or 
other fruits and nuts may be combined in one dish, and we 
have a macedoine of fruits. 

PROPORTION OF GELATINE TO LIQUID 

It is claimed that two ounces of gelatine, — the quantity 
put up in most packages — will jelly two quarts of liquid, but 
unless one has made sure of this by actual trial of the par- 
ticular brand used, it is safer to allow a little for advertising 
and cut down the quantity one cup. In summer also, when 
comparatively heavy pieces of fruit or other material are to 
be held up in the jelly, allow three pints of liquid to two 
ounces of gelatine. 

TO BRING OUT AND RETAIN FRUIT FLAVORS, ETC. 

More water sTiould form a part of the liquid to be jeUied, 
when the juice from which the jelly takes its name, is strong in 
flavor, as in lemon and red raspberry juices. The character- 
istic flavor of all jellies made of wine or fruit is accentuated or 
brought out more perfectly, if the juice of a lemon be used 
for each quart of jelly. In the same way jeUies made from 
many fruit juices are thought to be improved, if they be 
"pointed" with a tablespoonful or two of wine. With the 
exception of pineapple juice, which contains a vegetable pepsin 
that digests proteid substances, and hence needs be scalded 
before it is combined with milk, eggs, or gelatine, fruit juices 
when avoidable should not be heated, lest their volatile flavor 
and aroma be lost. If gelatine be heated to the boiling point, 
or even near that point, a disagreeable odor and flavor will 



ORANGE JELLY 507 

often be brought out. After having been softened in cold 
water, according to the time noted on the package, dissolve 
by adding it to the hot preparation, or by the addition of a 
little hot water, or by setting the dish in another filled with 
hot water. 

USES OF FRUIT AND WINE JELLIES 

Besides .their use as dessert dishes, served with cream, cus- 
tard or fruit purees, fruit and wine jellies are moulded and 
used with cold desserts in the same manner as aspic jelly is 
moulded and used with entries. • 

DOUBLE MOULDING AND UNMOULDING OF JELLIES 

For double moulding and unmoulding of gelatine dishes , 
see page 276. Jellies and all cold desserts that are not sur- 
rounded with cream, etc., or garnished in any way, are un- 
moulded on lace paper. These papers may be purchased in 
large or individual sizes. 

RECIPES 

LEMON JELLY 

I ounce (1-2 a package) of i cup of sugar. 

gelatine. i cup of lemon juice. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. • 2 cups of boiling water, 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, the time required varies 

with the brand, and add the boiling water and the sugar; 

stir until dissolved, and when cool add the lemon juice. 

Strain through a cheesecloth and use as desired. The thin 

yellow rind of the lemon and an inch of cinnamon bark, one 

or both, may be steeped in the boiling water for additional 

flavor. 

ORANGE JELLY 

I ounce (1-2 a package) of The juice of one lemon. 

gelatine. i pint of orange juice. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. i cup of boiling water. 

I cup of sugar (scant). 

Prepare as lemon jelly, but strain the liquid before adding 
the orange juice, to retain the little particles of orange pulp. . 



So8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

WINE JELLY 

1 oiince (1-2 a package of i cup of wine (claret, madeira, 

gelatine.) sherry or champagne) . 

1-2 a cup of cold water. The juice of one lemon. 

2 cups of boiling water. 1 cup of sugar. 

Prepare as lemon jelly. When champagne is used, cm 
down the quantity of boiling water to one cup. Cool the 
liquid before the wine is added. 

SAUTERNE JELLY 

I ounce of gelatine. 3 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. i 1-2 cups of haut sauteme. 

I 1-2 cups of boiling water. Green color paste. 

I cup of sugar. 

Prepare as lemon jelly; add color paste to secure a very 
delicate tint of green. 

COFFEE JELLY 

I ounce of gelatine. 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 2 cups of clear, black coffee. 

I cup of boiling water. 

Do not use liquid coffee that has been left standing on the 
grounds. Let the coffee be freshly made. Cereal coffee 
makes a good jelly and, served with cream, is. wholesome for 
children. 

ORANGE JELLY WITH ORANGE SECTIONS (MACEDOINE 
OF ORANGES) 

Make orange jelly. Set a mould in ice and water. 
Pour in a little jelly. When set arrange upon it sections of 
orange from which the seeds have been removed. Dip other 
sections in liquid jelly and place against the chilled sides of 
the mould. When set add jelly and sections of orange, 
alternately, until the mould is filled. When chilled turn from 
the mould and serve. 

MACEDOINE OF FRUIT AND NUTS 

Make orange, lemon or wine jelly. Let a few spoonfuls 
beQome "set" in the bottom of a mould. Arrange upon this 




ORANGE SECTIONS IN ORANGE JELLY, (See page 50S.) 




MACEDOINE OF FRUIT AND NUTS. (See page 508.') 




CBSTARD RENVERSEE, BAKED IN SMALL MOULDS. 
(See page 504,) 



RHUBARB JELLY AND BANANA CREAM 509 

a design with slices of bananas and blanched almonds, halved. 
Cover with jelly ; add figs and dates, cut in small pieces, and 
slices of blanched almond, alternately, with jelly, until the 
mould is filled. Serve surrounded with a wreath of whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored before whipping. 

RHUBARB JELLY 

I potuid of rhubarb. Ginger root and ^emon peel. 

I cup of sugar. The juice of one lemon. 

I cup of water. 1 ounce of gelatine. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 

Cut the rhubarb into pieces an inch in length and put into 
agate baking-dish in alternate layers with the sugar; add the 
water, the yellow peel of a lemon, and a piece of ginger root 
and bake until the rhubarb is tender, but not broken. Steep 
the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve by setting in a 
dish of hot water; then strain into the rhubarb, add the lemon 
juice and pour into a mould a little at a time, adding more as 
the preparation stiffens, to avoid the settling of the pieces of 
rhubarb. Preserved ginger, sliced thin, and a little ginger 
syrup may take the place of the dry ginger root. This is 
added after the rhubarb is cooked. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

RHUBARB JELLY AND BANANA CREAM 

Rhubarb jelly as above. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I cup of sifted banana pulp. 1-3 a package of gelatine. 

The juice of one-half a lemon. 1-3 a cup of cold water. 

1-2 a cup of orange juice. i cup of cream. 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the 
banana pulp, heated to the scalding point; add the sugar, 
and when cooled the orange and lemon juice. Stir, the dish 
standing meanwhile in ice and water, until the mixture begins 
to thicken, then fold in the cream, beaten stiff. Mould the 
cream and jelly in alternate layers. Let each layer become 
set, but not too solid, before the next one is added. If too 
solid they will not adhere to each other. The banana mixture 
is a Bavarian cream. (See page 5:6.) 



Sio PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

STRAWBERRY JELLY 

I pint of strawberry juice and pulp. 2-3 a cup of sugar. 
1-3 a two-ounce package of gel- The juice of one lemon, 
atine. 1-3 a cup of cold water. 

Crush the berries and pass them through a fine sieve 01 
piece of cheesecloth, thus removing the seeds, which are for 
many people an objectionable feature. Soften the gelatine 
in the cold water and dissolve by setting the dish in hot water; 
add the sugar and when cool the lemon and strawberry juice. 
Mould in a ring mould. Serve with orange sections, freed from 
membrane and skin, or with whipped cream. 

IVORY JELLY 

I ounce of gelatine. 2-33 cup of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. i 1-2 cups of double cream. 

I cup of hot milk. i tfeaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

A few grains of salt. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the hot 
milk; add the salt and sugar and strain. When cool add the 
cream and vanilla and stir, occasionally, until the mixture 
begins to thicken, then pour into a mould. Serve with a 
fruit pur^e, chocolate syrup or cream. 

SHERRY WINE JELLY WITH RAISINS 

Make once and a half the recipe for wine jelly, using sherry 
wine ; remove the stems and seeds from half a pound of choice 
imported raisins. If the raisin skins are tough, cook until 
tender in boiling water and drain and dry on a cloth ; then seed 
carefully to preserve the shape. Strain the water, in which 
the raisins were cooked, for the hot water needed in making 
the jelly. Set a mould in ice, pour in a few spoonfuls of the 
liquid arid let it become firm ; arrange on this raisins to form 
some symmetrical pattern, and put a few drops of the liquid 
about each raisin (this as it becomes set will hold them in 
place): cover with an. half-inch layer of jelly, then when firm 
add more raisins and more jelly, in layers, until the mould is 
filled. Serve garnished with whipped cream and cubes of 
jelly moulded without the raisins. 



BLANC MANGE Sn 

CANNED PEACH JELLY 

1-2 a box of gelatine (i oitnce) . The juice of one lemon. 
About three-fourths a cup of 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
sugar. Hot water as needed. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 

Heat the juice from a can of peaches and aid the sugar, the 
quantity depending upon the amount used in canning; when 
the sugar is dissolved add the gelatine, softened by standing 
in the cold water, and enough hot water to make three cups 
in all; let cool, then add the lemon juice and brandy. Mould 
the halves of peaches in the liquid. Serve with cream. Apri- 
cots and pears may be prepared in the same way. 

STEWED FIGS WITH JELLY AND CREAM 

1 8 whole figs. The juice of one lemon. 

1 cup of liquid. 1-2 a cup of sherry wine or orange 
1-2 an ounce of gelatine. juice. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. 1-4 a cup of powdered sugar. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. i cup of double cream. 

A few drops of vanilla extract. 

Wash the figs and cook, until the skin is tender, in boiling 
water. Drain the figs from the liquid, of which there should 
be one cup. Soften the gelatine in the cold water, and dis- 
solve in the hot liquid; add the sugar, stir -until dissolved 
and cooled somewhat, then add the lemon juice and wine and 
strain into a shallow dish. Add the sugar and vanilla to the 
cream and beat until stiff to the bottom of the dish. Dispose 
the figs in the centre of a glass serving-dish and surround with 
the whipped cream and the jelly, cut in cubes, alternating the 
cream and cubfes of jelly. . -•'■-- 

BLANC MANGE 

2 otmces of sweet almonds. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

6 bitter almonds. 1-2 a two-ounce package of gelatine. 

I cup of hot milk. i cup of cream. 

I pint of milk. 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

Blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste with the 
vanilla; pour over them the cup of hot milk and let stand an 



512 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

hour, then pass through a very fine sieve or a piece of 
cheese-cloth. Soften the gelatine in half a cup of milk from 
the pint; scald the rest of the milk and in it dissolve the 
gelatine and sugar; then strain over the almond milk, let cool, 
and add the cream and more flavoring if needed. Stir until 
beginning to set, then turn into a mould. 

ORANGE CREAM 

1-2 a cup of orange juice. 1-4 a two ounce package of gelatine. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

The yolks of two eggs. i 1-2 cups of cream. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. Grating of orange rind. 

Heat the orange juice and half a cup of sugar over hot water; 
beat the yolks of eggs, add the rest of the sugar and stir and 
cook in the hot mixture, until the spoon is coated with cus- 
tard; add the gelatine, softened in the cold water, and strain 
into the cream ; add a grating of yellow orange rind, or a few 
slices of candied peel, or a teaspoonful of orange extract, and 
stir over ice water until the mixture begins to stiffen, then turn 
into a mould. 

CASTELLANE PUDDING 

I pound of French chestnuts. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I cup of sugar. 2 ounces of gelatine. 

I - 2 a cup of water. i cup of cold water. 

I quart of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of vanill^ extract. 

The yolks of eight eggs. 1-2 a pound of French fruit. 

Maraschino 

Shell, blanch and cook the chestnuts, then pound in a mor- 
tar with the sugar and water, cooked together five minutes, 
and pass through a sieve. Make a boiled custard with the 
milk, yolks of eggs, and the half-cup of sugar, add the gelatine, 
softened in the cold' water, and strain into the chestnut mix- 
ture. Set into a pan of ice water and beat with a whisk, 
until the mixture begins to set. Let the fruit, half a cup of 
vanilla-chestnuts, pineapple, cherries, etc., all cut in small 
pieces, stand some time covered with maraschino. When the 
mixture begins to set, drain the fruit and put into a mould. 







STRAWBERRY SPONGE. (Sec page 513.) 




EASTER PUDDING. (See page 515.) 




RHUBARB JELLY AND BANANA CREAM. (See Dage 50p.> 



STRAWBERRY SPONGE 513 

alternately, with the chestnut preparation. Let stand until 
very cold and set. Serve with whole chestnuts, cooked in 
syrup' and flavored with vanilla. This amount will serve 
eighteen people. 

FRUIT SPONGES (FRUIT AND WINE JELLIES, BEATEN 

EGGS) 

GRAPE SPONGE 

1-2 an ounce of gelatine, or 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

1-4 a package. The juice of one lemon. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. The whites of three eggs. 

1 cup of grape juice. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve by standing 
the dish in hot water. Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice 
and strain the gelatine into the mixture. Set into ice and 
water and stir occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken ; 
then add, gradually, the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stifE 
froth, and beat until the whole is very light and stiff enough 
to hold its shape. Pile lightly in a glass serving-dish, and 
serve very cold with whipped cream, sweetened before whip- 
ping. Or the sponge may be moulded and when turned 
from the mould served with whipped cream orboiled custard. 
Strawberry, raspberry, or lemon juice, are good substitutes 
for the grape juice. 

STRAWBERRY SPONGE 

1-2 an ounce of gelatine, or i cup of sugar. 

1-4 a package. The juice of one lemon. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. 1 cup of strawberry juice and pulp. 

1-4 a cup of hot water. The whites of three eggs. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the hot 
water; add the sugar, stir until dissolved, then strain into a 
dish standing in ice water; when cool add the strawberry juice 
and beat until light, then beat in, gradually, the whites of the 
eggs, beaten light, and continue beating until the mixture 
will hold its shape. Have ready a chilled earthen or agate- 
ware bowl, lined with strawberries (cut the berries in halves 



SM PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and dip them in melted gelatine, and they will adhere to the 
bowl) and turn the sponge into the bowl. Serve, turned from 
the bowl and garnished with whipped cream and whole straw- 
berries. 

HAMBURG CREAM, WITH WHIPPED CREAM, ETC. 

The grated rind and juice of two 1-43 package of gelatine. 

large lemons. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

I cup of sugar. Whipped cream. 

8 eggs. Candied cherries. 

Heat the lemon juice and half the sugar over hot water; 
beat the yolks of the eggs and add the other half of the sugar; 
stir and cook the eggs and sugar in the lemon juice and sugar 
until thick, add the gelatine, softened in the cold water, and 
when again hot fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten dry; 
let stand a moment to cook the whites, then turn into a border 
mould. When cold unmould and fill the centre with whipped 
cream. Garnish with a few cherries. This dish is often 
served in-glasses. In this case gelatine is not used. 

SNOW EGGS 

Take as many ounces of sugar as whites of eggs (two level 
tablespoonfuls of sugar make an ounce). Beat the whites 
until nearly dry, then continue beating, adding the sugar 
meanwhile, until half has been used ; beat until the mixture is 
very firm, then gently fold in the other half of the sugar. Dip 
a tablespoon in boiling water, then fill it with meringue and 
shape and round the mixture in such a manner that there 
shall be as much meringue above as below the level of the 
spoon. Remove the mixture to a saucepan of gently boiling 
water, and let stand where the water will keep hot, but not 
boil, and poach the eggs until firm throughout, turning oc- 
casionally. It will take from six to ten, possibly fourteen, 
minutes to poach each egg. Remove with a skimmer and 
drain on a cloth, spread over a sieve. Snow eggs may be 
poached in milk, and the milk be used afterwards in making 
a custard. 



EASTER PUDDING 515 

COLD SPONGY MIXTURES WITH STARCH 

prune blanc-mange (philadelphia) 
(for use at restaurant, school or store) 
3 potinds of prunes. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

6 oiinces of cornstarch (three- The juice of two lemons, 
fourths a package) . The whites of six eggs. 

12 ounces of sugar (one and one-half cups) 

Wash the prunbs thoroughly and let soak over night in 
two or three quarts of water. Let simmer in the same water 
until soft. Mix together thoroughly the cornstarch, sugar, 
and salt ; then add the hot prune juice, of which there should 
be three pints, and stir constantly, until the mixture thickens 
and reaches the boiling point; then let cook over hot water 
one hour, stirring occasionally. Stone the prunes and pass 
them through a coarse sieve; add to the cornstarch mixture 
with the lemon juice, and, when thoroughly heated, fold in 
the whites of the eggs, beaten until foamy, but not dry. 
Mould in cups, and serve very cold with cream. 

REBECCA PUDDING 

1 quart of milk. The whites of three eggs. 

1-2 a cup of cornstarch. i cup of cocoanut, or 

1-4 a cup of sugar. i cup of chopped almonds, or 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Scald the milk; mix the cornstarch with milk to pour and 

stir into the hot milk; add the sugar and cook fifteen minutes, 

then, before folding in the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, 

add the almonds, cocoanut or vanilla. Turn into a mould, 

rinsed in cold water, and set aside to become chilled and firm. 

Serve with currant jelly, cream and sugar, or with a boiled 

custard. 

EASTER PUDDING 

Mould Rebecca pudding in a mould having a flat top. 
Mould blue violets in lemon or wine jelly, selecting a moixld 
that will give a shape suitable to place upon the flat top of 
the form of Rebecca pudding. When col&'and ready to serve 
immould the pudding and place tlsie jellv above it. Garnish 



Si6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the dish with violets, fresh or candied, and serve with cream 
and sugar, or boiled custard. 

RICE PUDDING (GRECIAN STYLE) 

1-4 a cup of rice. 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3-4 a cup of milk. 

Piece of cinnamon bark. The yolks of four eggs. 

3 cups of milk. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

Blanch the rice and steam with the salt, cinnamon, and 
milk until tender; dilute the cornstarch with the milk and 
stir through the hot rice with a fork; let cook ten minutes 
and add the yolks, beaten with the sugar; let cook until the 
egg is set; remove the cinnamon and serve very cold. This 
pudding 'may be tiimed into a buttered pudding-dish and 
finished with a meringue, made of the whites of two or more 
eggs and twice as many table'spoonfuls of sugar as whites of 
egg. Beat the egg whites until very foamy, then beat in 
gradually half of the sugar; continue the beating until the 
mixture is very dry knd glossy, then fold in the other half of 
the sugar. 

GELATINE DISHES WITH WHIPPED CREAM, ETC. 

BAVARIAN CREAM 

Bavarian creams or Bavairoises are complex preparaitions 
considered to be among the finest products of the culinary art. 
They are produced by combining fruit juice, or some flavored 
liquid, as coffee or milk, with caramel or chocolate, gelatine 
and sugar with whipped cream, in such a manner that the 
fluffy texture of the cream is retained. When the creams are 
made of milk, flavored with nuts, coffee, chocolate, etc., yolks 
of eggs are usually employed to enrich and, in connection 
with the gelatine, to thicken the mixture. Yolks of eggs are 
not usually added to creams made of fruit juices. While this 
is the general rule, eggs may be introduced into a fruit Bava- 
roise and omitted from that prepared with milk. The com- 
bination of eggs with fruit is a French custom which has not, 
as yet, obtained to any extent in this country. 



CARAMEL BAVARIAN CREAM 517 

VANILLA BAVARIAN CREAM 

' 1-4 a cup of cold water or milk 1-4 a package of gelatine, 

2 Clips of single cream, or 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

I cup of double cream and one The yolks of two eggs. 

cup of milk. I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Whip the cream, or cream and milk, and drain the whip. 
Scald three-fourths a cup of the cream that is drained from the 
whip (add milk if needed to make the full amount) with half a 
cup of sugar; add the yolks of eggs, beaten and mixed with 
the rest of the sugar and a few grains of salt, and cook in the 
hot cream as a boiled custard; when the liquid will coat the 
spoon, remove from the fire, add the gelatine, soaked in the 
cold water or rnilk, and strain. Set into ,a dish of ice and 
water and stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then fold 
in the froth from the cream and the .flavoring extract. Two 
tablespoonfuls of rum or sherry wine niay be used with 01 
without the vanilla. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Omit the vanilla and soften the gelatine in one-fourth a cup 
of clear black coffee, instead of , the water; or steep one-fourth 
a cup of ground coffee in the cream that. is drained from the 
whipped cream, strain and use three-fourths a cup as in 
vanilla Bavarian cream. 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Melt two ounces of chocolate over hot water and stir and 
cook until glossy with one-fourth a cup, each, of sugar and 
boiling water, then add to the three-fourths a cup of milk 
and proceed as in vanilla Bavarian cream. Serve with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored before whipping, or with apri- 
cot sauce. Candied fruit, cut fine and served with the cream, 
is an addition to this dish. 

CARAMEL BAVARIAN CREAM 

Cook three-fourths a cup of sugar to the caramel stage, 
and dissolve in the hot milk (see page 496). Add one-fourth 
a cup of sugar with the yolks of the eggs- to the milk, in which 
the caramel has been dissolved. 



Si8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BURNT ALMOND BAVARIAN CREAM 

Brown one cup of almonds, blanched and chopped, in the 
oven and pound them in a mortar with the caramel (see page 
33); then add the whole to the hot milk and proceed as in 
caramel Bavarian cream. Garnish with whipped cream and 
candied cherries. 

GINGER BAVARIAN CREAM 

Add one cup of preserved ginger, chopped fine and moistened 
with two tablespoonfuls of sherry wine and a little of the 
ginger syrup, to the custard after it has been strained. Use 
four yolks of eggs. 

MAPLE Bavarian cream 

I cup of maple sugar. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

The yolks of four eggs. The whip from three cups of cream. 

1-4 a box of gelatine. 

Scald the maple syrup and pour in a fine stream over the 
beaten yolks of eggs, stirring constantly, meanwhile. Return 
the mixture to a double-boiler and cook, stirring constantly, 
until the mixture will coat the spoon ; add the gelatine softened 
in the cold water; stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
fold in the froth from the cream. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM 

1-2 a package of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. i cup of sugar. 

I pint of grated pineapple. The whip from three cups of cream. 

Soften the gelatine in cold water and scald the pineapple 
(juice and pulp) with the sugar. Less sugar will be required 
(one-half a cup), if canned pineapple be used. Add the 
gelatine, dissolved by standing in hot water and strained 
through a cheesecloth, and the lemon juice. Set the mixture 
in ice water and stir until it begins to thicken, then add 'part 
of the whip from the cream and with a perforated spoon beat 
the cream evenly into- the gelatine mixture ; then add the rest 
of the whip, part at a time, and fold into the gelatine and first 
part of the cream. When the mixture is chilled enough to 




APRICOT BAVARIAN CREAM WITH SNOW EGGS, (See page 510) 




.NEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM. (See page si8.) 



PISTACHIO-AND-STRAWBERRY BAVAROISE 519 

hold its shape, turn into a mould. If preferred the scalded 
pineapple may be pressed through a cheesecloth, to remove 
bits of pulp. This dish is especially pretty when moulded in 
a cylindrical mould. When unmoulded place a few blossoms 
of Narcissus in the centre and surround the base with grated 
pineapple, cooked with sugar and lemon juice. 

APRICOT BAVARIAl} CREAM WITH SNOW EGGS 

1-4 a package of gelatine. The whip from two cups of cream. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. Snow eggs. 

I cup of apricot pur6e. The whites of three eggs. 

The juice of one-half a lemon, r-3 a cup of powdered sugar. 

3-4 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve by setting 
the dish in hot water; strain into the apricot purde, — cooked 
apricots pressed through a sieve — and add the sugar and 
lemon juice ; stir until the sugar is dissolved, then set into ice 
water, and stir until the mixture begins to thicken ; then add 
the whip from the cream as above. Prepare the snow eggs 
as in the recipe (page 514), moulding them in after-dinner 
coffee spoons. Dispose the "eggs" and the slices, or quar- 
ters, of cooked apricots, alternately, on the outside of the 
mould, holding them in place with the Bavarian mixture. 
Also make alternate layers of this mixture. Serve turned 
from the mould on to a plate covered with a lace paper. 
Whipped cream flavored to taste, or a compote of apricots, 
may be served apart, if desired. 

PISTACHIO-AND-STRAWBERRY BAVAROISE 

Strawberry Bavaroise. Pistachio Bavaroise 

1-4 a package of gelatine. 1-4 a package of gelatine. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

I cup of strawberry pulp and i cup of milk. 

Juice. 2 ounces of crushed pistachio nuts. 

The juice of one-half a lemon. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 
1-2 a cup of sugar. Green color paste. 

Rose color paste, if needed. 

The whip from three and one-half cups of cream 
Prepare the two creams as in the pre'ceding recipes, dividing 
the whip from the cream equally, then put by spoonfuls, to 



S20 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

produce a variegated appearance, into a mould decorated with 
strawberries, cut in halves, and blanched and crushed pis- 
tachio nuts. If the pistachio nuts be finely crushed in the 
mortar, the decoration will resemble green moss. In making 
the pistachio cream, scald the crushed nuts in the cream, 
then remove or not by straining, as desired. 

RASPBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

1-4 a package of gelatine. Garnish: 

1-4 a cup of raspberry juice. The froth from one-half a cup of 

The juice of one-half a lemon. double cream and one cup of 

I cup of raspberry juice. milk. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. Sauteme to flavor. ■ 

I 1-2 cups of double cream. Green color paste. 

Soften the gelatine in the fourth a cup of raspberry juice 
and dissolve by setting in hot water, then proceed as usual, 
beating the cream until solid to the bottom of the bowl. This 
gives a very rich dessert. In the garnish use only enough 
color paste to tint the cream a very delicate shade of green. 
RICE BAVARIAN CREAM WITH PRUNES 

1-4 a cup of rice. 1-4 a cup of cold water. 

I 1-2 cups of milk. i pint of cream. 

1-2 a cup of milk. 18 cooked prunes. 

The yolks of three eggs. The juice of one-half a lemon. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. 

1-2 an oiince of gelatine. Garnish of cooked prunes. 

Blanch the rice, then cook in the cup and a half of milk 
until tender. Make a boiled custard with the half-cup of 
milk, the yolks and the sugar; add the gelatine, softened in the 
cold water, and strain over the rice. Stir over ice water until 
the mixture begijis to thicken, then fold in the prunes, sifted 
or stoned and cut in pieces, as pleases, the cream, beaten 
solid, and the lemon juice, also wine, if used. Serve sur- 
rounded with cooked prunes. This is particularly good when 
preserved pineapple, cut in small pieces, is used in place of 
the prunes. If 3, white dessert be preferred, omit the custard, 
making the rice moist with an equivalent of milk or cream. 
Omit the prunes and serve the dish with sliced oranges, 01 
orange jelly, cut in cubes. 



BURNT-ALMOND CHARLOTTE RUSSE 521 

COLD CHARLOTTES 

Cold charlottes differ from hot charlottes in that whipped 
cream enters into their composition. There is usually an 
outer case or covering and a centre of Bavarian cream, ivory- 
jelly, or simply whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, or 
whipped cream with whipped whites of eggs. When the 
case is made of lady-fingers, narrow slices of cake, iced alter- 
nately in different colors, macaroons, gauffres, wafers, etc., 
the name Charlotte Russe is applied to the dessert; When 
the case is made of fruits, or wine jelly, holding strawberries, 
sections of orange, or other fruit, a macedoine or Celestine 
charlotte results. When the charlottes have an outer case 
(a compound cream lining), with a different colored cream or 
fruit centre, a Charlotte k Surprise is produced. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

INDIVIDUAL STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Dip the edge of macaroon drops into sugar cooked to the 
caramel stage and kept liquid over hot water. Press the 
macaroons together to form a ring about a cup. Remove 
the ring from the cup to a plate, and in the same manner add 
other rings to form a basket, holding each macaroon in place 
an instant while the caramel is hardening. Put macaroons 
together with caramel over an oiled cup or mould to form a 
handle and fasten this in place with caramel. Fill the basket 
with double cream, sweetened and beaten until solid, and 
fresh strawberries. These should not stand very long after 
being filled ; they should be set in place upon individual plates 
before being filled with the cream. If a macaroon base be 
desired for the baskets, fashion that first, then add macaroons 
dipped in caramel, one after another, as in making a burr bas- 
ket. 

BURNT-ALMOND CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Dip the ends of almond wafers (see page 450) in caramel 
and then in chopped and browned almonds; dry and dip the 
side of one wafer after another into the caramel and fasten 



522 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

one to another around an oiled mould. Mould a burnt-almond 
Bavarian cream in a mould a little smaller than the wafer case. 
When ready to serve, remove the cream from the mould and 
place the wafer case over it. Decorate with whipped cream, 
piling it high above the Bavarian cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH QUINCES (CHARLES H. KING) 

Tie a strip of sponge cake about a mould. Dip macaroons 
in caramel and press over the cake. These will hold- the 
cake in place and the string may be removed. Dip the ends 
of lady-fingers in caramel, set on top, and tie. Place the case 
on the serving-dish and line throughout with vanilla Bavarian 
cream; fill the centre with preserved quinces and cover with 
Bavarian cream. In filling the case, the fruit needs to be put 
in as the case is lined to keep the lining from falling inward. 
Decorate the top with double cream, sweetened, flavored, and 
beaten solid. Fresh peaches, sliced, or strawberries may take 
the place of the quinces. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH SALPICON OF FRUIT 

(individual recipe) 
1-2 a cup of double cream. i tablespoonful of wine, or 

1-2 a cup of milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract 

I teaspoonful of granulated Lady-fingers. 

gelatine. Whipped cream. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 1-4 a cup of sugar (scant) . 
Garnish: stoned and skinned white grapes. Maraschino cherries, 

syrup. 

Stir the cream and milk together, whip and drain ; soften the 
gelatine in the cold water and dissolve over hot water; add 
the wine or vanilla and pour over the cream; add the sugar 
(sugar syrup is better) and set the pan into ice water; turn the 
pan in one direction and stir in the opposite direction until 
the mixture thickens, then turn into a mould lined with lady- 
fingers. When ready to serve, turn the charlotte from the 
mould, first dipping it into warm water and making sure that 
the mixture does not adhere to the edge of the mould at any 
point. Garnish with a little whipped cream, using the pastry- 
bag and tube, and surround with the grapes and cherries, 




RICE BAVARIAN CREAM WITH PRUNES. (Sec pa^e 520.) 




INDIVIDUAL STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

(Sec pa.L;c 52 i -) 




CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH SALPICON OF FRUIT. 
(Sec paRc 522.) 



INDIVIDUAL MAPLE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 523 

mixed with the sugar syrup and a Httle of the syrup from the 
cherries. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Fill a mould lined with lady-fingers with chocolate Bavarian, 
cream, made either with or without eggs. Garnish with 
sweetened and flavored whipped cream — using a pastry-bag 
and tube — and candied cherries. 

BANANA CANTALOPE (CHARLOTTE RUSSE) 

1-2 a package of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 

1-2 a cup of cold water. i cup of banana pulp. 

I cup of cold milk. The whip from three cups of cream. 

The yolks of four eggs. Lady-fingers. 

1 cup of sugar. Pistachio nuts or candied plums. 

Scald the milk with part of the sugar; beat the egg yolks, 
add the rest of the sugar and a few grains of salt ; pour the hot 
milk upon the eggs and sugar, mix thoroughly, return to the 
boiler, and cook until the mixture thickens slightly ; add the 
softened gelatine and strain over the banana pur^e (bananas, 
with skin and coarse threads removed and pressed through a 
sieve or vegetable ricer), and return the sauce-pan to the hot 
water to scald the banana; then remove from the fire, add the 
lemon juice and stir' over ice water; when cool and beginning 
to thicken fold in the whip from the cream. When stiff enough 
to hold its shape, turn into a melon mould lined throughout 
with lady-fingers. These may be trimmed to fit into the 
spaces of the mould. When ready to serve, turn from the 
mould, brush the outside with white of egg, slightly beaten, 
and sprinkle thickly with blanched pistachio nuts, or candied 
green grapes or plums, chopped fine. 

INDIVIDUAL MAPLE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Paper cases, or souffld dishes, lined with angel lady-fingers 
(cut in suitable pieces), filled with maple Bavarian cream 
and ornamented with whipped cream, make a pleasing change 
from the ordinary charlotte russe. 



S24 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING (NO GELATINE) 

I pint of cream. 3-4 a cup of sugar. 

The whites of two eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of wine, or 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract, or both. 

Beat the cream until stiff to the bottom of the bowl, or use 
the drained froth from thin cream beaten with a whip churn. 
Beat the whites of the eggs until dry, then gradually beat in 
half the sugar and fold in the other half; add the extract, or 
wine, and combine with the cream, cutting and folding the 
two mixtures together. Use for filling cases that are not to be 
unmoulded. This is one of the best of fillings for a bombe 
glac^ or other frozen mixture. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING (NO GELATINE OR EGGS) 

I cup of double cream. 1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla, or 

1-4 a cup of powdered sugar i tablespoonful of wine, or both, 

(scant) . 

Mix all the ingredients and beat until thick to the bottom 
of the bowl. This filling may be used in cases that are to be 
unmoulded, but it is generally preferred when the charlotte 
is to be served in a paper or other case, or in a cup. 

CHARTREUSE OF CHESTNUTS (CHARLOTTE RUSSE) 

I cup of chestnut pulp. 1-3 a cup of French candied fruit 
I cup of sugar. cut in bits. 

1-3 a cup of water. Vanilla or wine. 

1-4 a box of gelatine. Chocolate Bavarian cream. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. Whipped cream. 

I cup of cream. Candied chestnuts. 
Lady-fingers 

Shell, blanch; and cook in milk large chestnuts enough to 
yield a cup of pur^e. They will pass through the sieve more 
easily when hot. Cook the sugar and water until a thread is 
formed. Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve 
in the hot syrup, then strain into the chestnut pulp; beat 
together thoroughly, add the fruit and flavoring, and stir 
over ice water until it begins to set, then fold in the cup of 
cream, beaten stiff. Line a melon or other fanciful-shaped 



WINE SYLLABUB 525 

mould, set in ice water, with lady-fingers, then with chocolate 
Bavarian cream ; fill the centre with the chestnut cream, cover 
with chocolate cream, and let stand until the mixture is well 
set. Serve turned onto a lace paper, or surrounded with 
whipped cream and candied chestnuts. 

CHESTNUT CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

I cup of chestnut pur^e. The yolks of four eggs. 

I cup of sugar. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

1-3 a cup of water. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I ounce of gelatine. 1-2 a cup of candied fruit. 

1-3 a cup of cold water. 1-4 a cup of wine. 

The whip from three cups of Lady-finger meringues, 

single cream. i cup of milk. 

Make a boiled custard of the milk, yolks of eggs, half cup of 
«ugar, and salt; add the gelatine softened in the cold water 
and gradually mix into the chestnut pur^e, diluted with the 
sugar and water cooked to a syrup ; add the wine and fruit 
and stir over ice water until the mixture begins to set, then 
fold in the whip from the cream and turn into mould lined 
with meringues shaped like lady-fingers. Cut the meringues 
into triangular shape and fit into the bottom of the mould, 
first lining it with paper. Leave a narrow, but uniform, 
space between the meringues. 

SYLLABUBS, WHIPS, JUNKETS, DEVONSHIRE CREAMS, 

ETC. 

If you will but speak the word, I will make you a good Syllabub, 
and then you may sit down in a Hay-cock and eat it. — Izaak Walton. 

The foundation of these idyllic dishes, the names of which 
head this division of the dessert service, is cream or rich milk, 
preferably milk fresh drawn. The cream or milk is variously 
modified with spice and wine, brandy or cider. Lemon juice 
is usually added to accentuate the flavor of the whole. 

WINE SYLLABUB 

I pint of cream. i cup of Sherry, Madeira or port. 

The juice of one lemon. A grating of nutmeg or a sprink- 

3-4 a cup of sugar (scant) . ling of ground cinnamon. 



S26 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mix the sugar with the lemon juice and wine and when 
dissolved add the cream and whip to a froth. If a whip 
chum be usedj drain the froth. Serve very cold in glasses. 
Some authorities dispose a wine-soaked bit of cake in the bot,- 
tom of the glass before the cream is put in. 

LEMON SYLLABUB 

I pint of double cream. i cup of sugar. 

The juice of five lemons. i cup of sweet wine. 

The grated rind of one lemon. 

Mix the sugar and lemon juice and, when the sugar is dis- 
solved, add the wine and cream and whip the whole to a 
froth. Drain if needed. Let stand some hours. Serve very 
cold. 

ROYAL CREAM WHIP 

I pint of double cream. 3-4 a cup of sugar (scant) . 

I 1-2 cups of grape juice. The whites of two eggs. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until foamy, add the fruit juice 
mixed with the sugar, and lastly the cream, then beat with a 
whip chum. Take off the froth as it rises and drain on a sieve. 
Pour the unwhipped mixture into handsome glasses, pile the 
whip on top and serve icy cold. Strawberry or red raspberry 
juice may take the place of the grape juice. 

PUREE OF CHESTNUTS WITH WHIPPED CREAM AND 

FRUITS 

1 pint of double cream. i pint of chestnut pur^e. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a cup of syrup at 35°. 

I cup of candied fruit soaked in A few grains of salt, 

wine and drained. Flavoring (wine or vanilla). 

Use the wine, in which the fruit has steeped, to flavor the 
cream; add this with the sugar to the cream and whip the 
whole very light. Blanch and cook chestnuts tq yield a pint 
of pulp when passed through a sieve or ricer; beat with the 
syrup until light and fluffy; if not moist enough, add a little 
cream or milk. Dispose the cream in a mound in the centre of 
the dish after first beating in the fruit, then press the pur^e 
around it, using a sieve or vegetable ricer — the ricer will give 
the prettiest effect. If preferred, the fruit may be stirred into 



DEVONSHIRE JUNKET 527 

the chestnut pur6e, and disposed in a mound on the serving- 
dish; then Tcover with whipped cream, and pipe cream upon 
the mound to form some pattern. Garnish with candied 
chestnuts or fruit. 

JUNKET 

Junket is another old-fashioned dish, which has lately had 
a renaissance The characteristic texture of the dish is 
occasioned by the action of rennet upon milk. Formerly a 
piece of the inner lining of a calf's stomach, prepared by clean- 
ing and salting, was laid in the "blood- warm" milk (about 
98° Fahr.) to produce a jellied state. If too much or too 
little rennet were used, the result was unsatisfactory, and the 
exact quantity required was a father nice matter to determine. 
The renaissance of this simple dainty is largely due to the 
fact that the rennet principle can now be purchased in the 
form of tablets (junket) , one of which is the exact quantity 
required for one quart of milk. Thus the success of the dish 
is assured, provided always that the milk be at the proper 
temperature when the tablet is incorporated. 

PLAIN JUNKET (CURDS AND WHEY) 

2 to 4 teaspoonfuls of rum, brandy i quart of rich milk. 

or wine, or i junket tablet. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla. Powdered sugar and cinnamon. 

Crush the junket tablet and dissolve in one tablespoonful 
of cold water. Heat the milk and sugar, stirring constantly, 
until it reaches' 1 00° Fahr. ; add the flavoring and the dissolved 
tablet and stir until evenly mixed, then turn into a serving-" 
dish, or preferably into' sherbet cups. Let the preparation 
stand in a warm room until it becomes jelly-like, then without 
jarring set aside in a cool place. Just before serving sprinkle 
the top with powdered sugar and cinnamon mixed. When 
the dish is leveled with a spoon,. as in eating, or if it be broken, 
in moving, the curd and whey, separate somewhat. 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET 

Prepare as plain junket, and just before serving cover the 
top with Devonshire cream, then sprinkle with the sugar and 



528 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cinmamon as before. Whipped cream is sometimes substi- 
tuted for Devonshire cream. 

DEVONSHIRE CREAM 

Let a pan of milk, fresh-drawn from the cow, stand in a 
cool place from twelve to twenty-four hours, then set over 
the fire and let come very slowly to the scalding point without 
boiling. Remove to a cool place for six to twelve hours; 
then skim off the cream, which will be quite firm and of a 
peculiarly sweet flavor. •> i 

VARIATIONS OF PLAIN JUNKET 

One ounce of chocolate, melted and cooked until smooth 
and glossy with two or three tablespoonfuls of boiling water, 
added to the milk for a plain junket, gives a chocolate junket. 
Cook the sugar to caramel, dissolve in hot water, and add to 
the milk, for caramel junket. When richness is required, as 
for convalescents and sometimes for children, add the beaten 
yolks of two or three eggs, mixed with sugar, to the milk and 
make "snow eggs" of the whites. Serve a snow egg on the 
top of each glass. If plain junket be prepared in a large dish, 
on serving pour around each service a puree of fruit (orange, 
banana, pineapple, etc.), chocolate sauce or syrup, coffee 
sauce, etc. 



CHAPTER XXI 
» Hot Puddings, etc. 

SYNOPSIS OP CHAPTER 

a. Hot puddings thickened with previously cooked \ Baked. 

ingredients. ^ Steamed. 

b. Hot puddings thickened with uncooked ingl-edients: 

I. Grains. 

I Steamed. 
Uncooked flour. ■{ Baked. 



2. Meal or flour. 
c. Omelets. 



I. Fried. 
.Cooked flour. { Souffles. 



A. HOT PUDDINGS THICKENED WITH COOKED 
INGREDIENTS 

As A RULE, puddings in which previously cooked ingredients 
are used require but little cookingj and that at a low temper- 
ature; especially is this true when eggs are employed. The 
cooking of steamed puddings needs be continuous, and boiling 
water must be used to replenish the supply as needed. If a 
steam-kettle be not available, a saucepan tightly covered will 
answer the purpose, if the mould containing the pudding be 
set on a trivet (a dozen nails will do), to allow the passage of 
water between it and the bottom of the saucepan. 

When grains are used for thickening, the pudding should 
be stirred several times during the first part of the cooking, 
lest the grains settle and form a heavy pasty mass in the bot- 

529 



530 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

torn of the vessel. Often the grains may be cooked to advan- 
tage in a double boiler, then, after the other ingredients have 
been added, the cooking may be finished in the oven. 

BROWN BETTY 

1-2 a cup of melted butter. The juice of one lemon or orange. 

I quart of breadcrumbs (centre Enough water to make half a cup 

of loaf) . with the fruit juice 

Nearly one quart of sliced apples Sugar. 

(pared and cored) . Grating of lemon or orange rind. 

Put the crumbs moistened with butter into a baking-dish, 
in layers alternately with the apple, making the last layer of 
crumbs, and sprinkle each layer of apple with the fruit juice, 
water, and sugar. Bake about an hour. Let the dish be 
covered during the first part of the baking. Occasionally 
substitute sliced rhubarb for the apple. A few stoned raisins 
will improve the latter dish. 

MOCK INDIAN PUDDING (MRS. MILLER) 

Cut stale bread in half-inch slices and remove the crusts. 
Butter the bread on both sides, pile the slices together, arid 
cut in cubes. To each cup of cubes — well pressed down — 
use one pint of milk, a scant half a cup of molasses, and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish, in a 
very moderate oven, from two to three hours. Serve hot with 
or without cream. 

THANKSGIVING PUDDING 

I 1-2 cups of cracker-crumbs. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon, 

I cup of sugar. i pound of raisins 

1-2 a cup of molasses. 6 eggs. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 5 cups of milk. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of mace. 1-4 a cup of butter. 

Scald the milk and pour over the cracker- crumbs and but- 
ter; let stand a few moments, then add the molasses and 
spices, the eggs beaten with the sugar, and the raisins stoned. 
Bake in a moderate oven about four hours. Stir several 
times during the first hour, to keep the raisins from settling to 
the bottom of the dish. 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS 531 

CRACKER RAISIN PUDDING (NEW HAMPSHIRE) 

6 Boston crackers. 2-3 a cup of sugar. 

Butter. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of seeded raisins. . A grating of nutmeg. 

3 eggs. 5 cups of milk. 

Split the crackers, spread with butter, and dispose in a 
buttered baking-dish with the raisins; beat the eggs, add the 
sugar, salt, nutmeg, and milk, and pour over the crackers; 
let stand half an hour, then bake slowly until the centre is 
firm. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

ST. DAVID'S PUDDING (MARIETTA MCPHERSON) 

6 apples. 1-2 a pound of almonds. 

I cup of water. 1-2 a cup of butter. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-4 a cup of sherry. 

I 1-2 cups of macaroon crumbs. Salt to taste. 

Pare and core the apples, then cut them into eighths. Cook 
the apples until tender, but not broken, in the sugar and 
water, heated to the boiling point. Shell, blanch, and shred 
the almonds. Melt the butter and stir into it the macaroon 
crumbs. Butter a baking-dish and in it dispose the crumbs, 
apples, and almonds, in alternate layers. Pour over the re- 
maining syrup and the sherry, and bake in a slow oven three 
hours. Peaches may be substituted for the apples. The 
pudding when baked should be of a rich, dark-red color. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS 

I quart of milk. The yolks of four eggs. 

I pint of grated breadcrumbs. Currant or other jelly. 

I 1-2 cups of sugar. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

Grated rind and jtdce of i lemon. The whites of four eggs. 

For a change add two ounces of melted chocolate, one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of cinnamon, and one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla extract, in place of the grated rind and 
lemon juice. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar, grated rind, and 
juice, then the milk, and pour over the bread-crumbs; let 
stand about half an hour, then bake until firm in the centre; 



532 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

spread with jelly or strawberry preserves, and cover with a 
meringue made of the half-cup of sugar and the whites of 
the eggs. Return to the oven about eight minutes, to brown 
the meringue. Serve hot or cold. ' 

CUBAN PUDDING 

1-2 a pound of dry sponge cake. 4 eggs. 

1-2 a pound of grated cocoanut. 1-4 a cup of sugar, 

I pint of milk. Preserved ginger. 

Press the cake through a sieve and add the cocoanut; beat 
the eggs slightly, add the sugar, and then, gradually, the hot 
milk, and pour the whole over the cake and cocoanut. Deco- 
rate the bottom and sides of a well-buttered mould with about 
two ounces of preserved ginger. Put the cake mixture into 
the mould, cover, and steam about an hour and a half. Serve 
the pudding with the syrup from the ginger jar, heated and 
poured over it. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING (A LA DAVID HARUM) 

I cup of scalded milk. 1-3 a teaspoonful, each, of cloves 
I pint of bread-crumbs. and mace. 

3-4 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a pound of raisins. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a pound of currants. 

The yolks of four eggs. 1-2 a cup of almonds. 
I teaspoonful of cinnamon and 1-2 a pound of suet. 

nutmeg. The whites of four eggs. 

Pour the scalded milk over the crumbs taken from the 
centre of a stale loaf of bread; when cool, add the sugar, salt, 
and yolks of eggs, beaten together, then the chopped suet, 
mixed with the blanched and chopped almonds, the seeded 
raisins, and the cleaned currants ; lastly add the spices and the 
whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Serve with hard sauce, or with 
any liquid wine or fruit pudding sauce. In the illustration the 
pudding is served with whipped cream, sprinkled with grated 
maple sugar. Steam four hours. 

For a change chopped dates or figs are particularly good 
in place of the currants or raisins. 



CABINET PUDDING 533 



VITOS PUDDfING 

1 cup of vitos. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 cups of milk (scalded) . i teaspoonful of soda. 
1-2 a cup of molasses. _ i teaspoonful of salt. 
2 eggs. I cup of dates. 

Stir the vitos (any other wheat breakfast food may be sub- 
stituted) into the scalded milk and let cook until the mixture 
thickens, then remove from the fire, add the molasses, butter, 
soda, salt, and dates, stoned and cut in pieces, and, lastly, 
when cooled somewhat, the eggs, beaten light without separat- 
ing. Turn into a buttered mould and steam three hours. 
Serve with hard or liquid pudding sauce. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING 

1-2 a pound (i cup) of sugar. 1-2 a cup of cream. 

1-2 a pound (i cup) of butter. 1-2 acup of brandy. 

I pound of sifted potato (sweet) . 1-2 a cup of rose-water. 

4 eggs beaten without separating. Cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the cooked 
potatoes, sifted, the eggs, beaten to a froth, and the other 
ingredients with spices to taste. Bake in a pudding-dish, 
lined with puflE paste. Serve hot with a pudding sauce. 

CABINET PUDDING 

I cup of fruit, currants, chopped i quart of milk. 

citron and raisins. 4 eggs. 

Cinnamon and cloves (ground) Salt. , 

at discretion. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Slices of sponge cake. 

Butter a three-pint brick mould, sprinkle the bottom of the 
mould with fruit, and then add slices of stale sponge cake, and 
spices, if desired. Alternate these layers until the mould is 
filled. Beat the eggs, add the salt, the milk, and the melted 
butter, and pour over the ingredients into the mould. Let 
stand one hour. Steam one hour and a half. Serve hot with 
wine or custard sauce, or with currant jelly. 



534 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



STEAMED BERRY PUDDING 

1 cup of milk. 1 cup of huckleberries or 

2 eggs. cranberries. 
Rolled crackers or sifted graham i tablespoonful of salt. 

bread. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Beat the eggs and add the milk with the salt and sugar. 
Stir in the berries and enough crumbs to make a drop batter. 
Steam one hour. Serve with pudding sauce. About one 
pound of bread-crumbs will be needed. 

CHESTNUT CROQUETTES 

Remove the shells, and blanch the chestnuts, then cook 
until tender in plenty of water ; drain and pass through a sieve ; 
sweeten to taste with sugar and water, boiled to a thick syrup 
(a cup of sugar boiled with half a cup of water will be a gen- 
erous quantity for a quart of the sifted chestnuts), flavor with 
vanilla, and add the beaten yolks of three eggs to a quart of 
pulp, and also a little salt. When cold enough to handle 
shape into croquettes (a pear shape is appropriate), egg and 
bread-crumb, finish with a stem of angelica root, and fry in 
deep fat. Serve on a folded napkin with Sabayon sauce in a 
dish apart. To shell and blanch, see page 34. 

CUMBERLAND PUDDING 

6 ounces of stale bread-crumbs. 6 ounces of sugar. 

6 ounces of currants. 4 ounces of citron. 

6 ounces of suet. 6 eggs. 

6 ounces of apples. The grated rind and juice of one 

I teaspoonful of salt. orange. 

Pass the suet, apples, pared and cored, and the citron 
through the food-chopper together; add the currants, salt, 
sugar, and bread-crumbs (centre of loaf passed through a 
colander), also when thoroughly mixed the beaten yolks of 



CHERRY PUDDING 535 

the eggs, diluted with the grated rind and juice of the orange; 
lastly, add the stifE-beaten whites of the eggs. Steam four to 
six hours in a two-quart mould; two brick ice cream moulds, 
each holding a quart, give puddings good shape for serving. 
Serve with lemon, wine, or hard sauce. 

APPLE-AND-BROWN BREAD PUDDING 

I pint of brown bread-crumbs. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

2-3 a cup of suet (fine chopped) . i egg. 

I pint of apple, chopped fine. i cup of milk. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a teaspoonful of ginger or 

I cup of raisins. other spice. 

Mix the crumbs and suet and add the apple, salt, and raisins, 
dredged with the flour and the spice. Beat the egg, add the 
milk, and stir into the dry ingredients. Steam two hours in 
a buttered mould. Serve with hard,' lemon, or other liquid 
pudding sauce. 

B. HOT PUDDINGS THICKENED WITH UNCOOKED 
INGREDIENTS 

I ENGLISH PUDDING 

1-2 a cup of butter. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of stoned and cut raisins. 1-4 a teaspoonful of cloves. 
I cup of molasses. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

I cup of milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of mace. 

31-2 cups of flour. 

Cream the butter and add the fruit, the molasses, milk, 
and flour sifted with soda, spices, and a few grains of salt; 
mix thoroughly and steam in a buttered mould about three 
hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

1-4 a cup of butter. i-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1 -4 a cup of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
1-2 a cup of milk. The whites of three eggs. 

2 cups of flour. I cup of stoned cherries. 



536 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar, and alternately 
the ipilk and flour sifted with the salt and baking-powder, 
and lastly the cherries and whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Steam 
in a buttered pudding-dish about an hour and a half. Serve 
with a sauce, made of the cherry jaice and sugar thickened 
with arrowroot. 

FRUIT PUDDING 

1 cup of entire wheat flour. i teaspoonful of mixed spices 
1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. (mace, cinnamon, etc.). 

T teaspoonful of baking-powder. 2 teaspoonfuls of melted butter. 

1-2 a cup of molasses. 3-4 a cup of fruit (currants, sul- 
I egg. tanas, citron, chopped figs, 

1-2 a cup milk (sweet). dates or prunes). 

Sift together the first four ingredients. Beat the egg, add 
the niilk and molasses, and stir into the dry ingredients; 
then add the melted biitter and the fruit, either one variety 
or a combination. Steam two and one-half hours. Serve 
with hard sauce. 

CARROT PUDDING (ELLEN M. CHANDLER) 

I pound of carrots. i teaspoonful of ground cinna- 

I pound of suet. mon. 

I cup of sugar. , t teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

I 1-2 cups of flour. 1-2 a teaspoonful of ground 

1 teaspoonful of salt. cloves. ' 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 1-2 a pound of currants. 

1-2 a pound of raisins. 

Weigh the carrots, after peeling and grating. Mix the suet, 
chopped fine, with the fruit, and then with the carrots; then 
add the baking-powder, spices, and flour, sifted together. 
Steam in a mould three hours and a half. Serve with a wine 
sauce. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

6 tart apples. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I cup of tapioca. i teaspoonful of cinnamon, or 
I quart of boiling water. the juice and grated rind of 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. one lemon. 



BAJCED TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH FRUIT 537 

Sprinkle the tapioca. and salt into the boiling water, and 
cook, stirring occasionally, until the tapioca becomes trans- 
parent. Core and pare the apples and dispose in a buttered 
baking-dish; fill the cavities with the sugar and spice, mixed 
together, and pour the tapioca over the whole. Let bake 
slowly until the apples are tender. Stewed prunes, peeled 
■ bananas, cooked bag figs and peaches, fresh or canned, may 
be prepared in a similar manner. A layer of fruit, then a 
layer of tapioca, furnishes a satisfactory way of disposing the 
ingredients. Serve hot with cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

I pint of hot milk. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-3 a cup of tapioca. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

The yolks of two eggs. The whites of two eggs. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 

Stir the tapioca into the milk and let cook until transparent ; 
beat the yolks, add the sugar and salt and beat again, then 
stir into the tapioca ; add the extract and fold into the whites 
of the eggs, beaten until dry. Serve hot or cold. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD PUDDING 

4 cups of hot milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

3-4 a cup of tapioca. t tablespoonful of butter. 

3 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 

I cup of sugar. 

Cook the tapioca, until transparent, in the hot milk. Beat 
the eggs slightly; add the sugar and salt and stir into the 
tapioca; stir in also the butter and vanilla; turn into a but- 
tered baking-dish and bake about thirty minutes, in a slow 
oven. Serve hot or cold. 

BAKED TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH FRUIT 

I quart of milk. 2 eggs. 

I cup of currants, sultanas, 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt, mace 

sliced citron and cherries. and cinnamon. 

3-4 a cup of tapioca. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2-3 a cup of sugar. 



538 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Scald the milk with the fruit and stir into it the tapioca 
and sugar, mixed with the salt and spices; let cook until the 
tapioca is transparent, about ten minutes, then add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs and the butter. Turn into a buttered baking- 
dish and let bake about fifteen minutes. Cover with a me- 
ringue, made of the whites of the eggs, one-fourth a cup of 
sugar and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Return to the oven, 
to brown the meringue. Serve hot or cold. The whites of 
the eggs may be. added with the yolks, and the pudding, 
served hot with hard sauce, or a liquid wine sauce. 

BAKED RICE-AND-MILK PUDDING 

I cup of rice. Cinnamon or nutmeg. 

I cup of sugar. 6 cups of milk. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 to one cup of stoned raisins. 

Blanch the rice and turn into a baking-dish; add the other 
ingredients and bake in a very slow oven three or four hours. 
Stir two or three times, during the first hour, to keep the 
raisins from settling to the bottom. Cover with a buttered 
paper, to keep the top from becoming too brown. If the 
pudding looks at all dry, add another cup of rich milk fifteen or 
twenty minutes before taking from the oven. The grains of 
rice should be whole, each surrounded by a creamy liquid. 

INDIAN TAPIOCA 

1-3 a cup of tapioca. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1-4 a cup of Indian meal. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

I quart of scalded milk. i 1-2 cups of cold milk. 

I cup of molasses. 

Mix together the tapioca and meal and stir while sprinkling 
into the scalded milk. Stir and cook until the tapioca be- 
comes transparent, then stir into the molasses, salt, and but- 
ter, and turn into a buttered baking-dish. Pour over the top 
a cup and a half of cold milk, and set in the oven without stir- 
ring. Bake about an hour. Serve with or without cream. 



AUNT SALLIE'S FLIRTS 539 

INDIAN SUET PUDDING (COLONIAL) 

1 quart of hot milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of Indian meal. 1-2 a teaspoonful of ginger. 

I cup of suet, chopped fine. 1-2 a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

1 cup of molasses. i pint of cold milk. 

I egg. I cup of cold water. 

Stir the meal into the hot milk and add the other ingre- 
dients except the cold milk and water ; add the egg, well beaten, 
last. Turn into- a buttered baking-dish and pour the cold 
milk and water over the top, and, without stirring these in, 
bake very slowly three hours. Serve plain, or with cream 
and sugar. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

I pint of milk, scalded. 1-2 a cup of molasses. 

4 tablespoonfuls of Indian meal. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1 cup of cold water. 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
1-2 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of ginger. 

2 eggs 1-2 a cup of milk. 

Mix the meal with the cup of cold water and stir into the hot 
milk; add the other ingredients, except the half a cup of milk. 
Bake in a buttered pudding-dish half an hour, then pour on 
the half -cup of milk and bake without stirring two hours. 

AUNT SALLIE'S FLIRTS (NOODLES) 

I egg. Flour. 1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Break an egg into a cup, add the salt and quickly stir in 
flour with a spoon, until no more can be easily added. Turn 
onto a floured board and add flour until the mixture is of a 
consistency to roll out. Divide the dough into three pieces 
and roll each thinner, if possible, than paper; cut into squares 
or strips and fry an instant in hot fat. They should be a 
very deUcate brown. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
serve at once. Two people, one to fry and' one to sprinkle 
with sugar, are needed to prepare this dish, as everything 
depends upon quick work. If a larger 'number of "flirts" be 
required than is provided in the recipe, do not double the 
recipe, mix again. Use but one egg at a time. This in 
reality is noodle paste. 



S40 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



STRAWBERRY, BLACKBERRY, PEACH OR ORANGE 
SHORTCAKES 

I 1-2 cups of flour. 1-3 to half a cup of butter. 

1-2 a cup of cornstarch. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

4 level teaspoonfuls of baking- Milk as needed, 
powder. 

Sift together the flour, cornstarch, baking-powder, and salt, 
and work in the butter with a knife, pastry-fork or fingers; 
add milk a little in a place, to mix a rather soft dough. Divide 
the doiigh in halves, and pat out to fit two tins ; or bake in one 
tin, one round above the other, first spreading the lower round 
generously with butter. Bake separately, if needed, and 
butter the cakes. Put together with fruit mixed with sugar. 
Garnish with cream and fruit. Two baskets of strawberries 
or raspberries, or other fruit in the same proportion, are re- 
quired. 

BANANA SHORTCAKE 

1-3 a cup of butter. 2 1-2 teaspoonfuls (level) of 

1 cup of sugar. baking-powder. 

2 eggs. 4 bananas. 
1-2 a cup of milk. Cream filling. 
I 3-4 cups of flour. Meringue. 

Mix in the same manner as a cake. Bake in a square layer 
cake-pan. When baked, dispose on the top peeled bananas, 
cut in halves lengthwise; cover with thick custard filling 
(English cream) and meringue. Brown delicately in the oven 
(it should take about six minutes) and serve with hot jelly 
sauce. The whites of three eggs and one-third a cup of sugar 
will make the meringue. Put in place, with a pastry-bag and 
tube, directly over the halves of banana, thus marking the 
cake into divisions for cutting. 

GERMAN PUFFS 

1-2 a cup of butter. 2 cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

The yolks of three eggs. 2 level teaspoonfuls of cream-of- 

I cup of milk. tartar. 










HOT CABINET PUDDING WITH JELLY. (See page 533.) 



-^''V<»k 




STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE, (See page 540. ) 




PINEAPPLE OMELET. (See page 546.) 



FRITTERS 541 

Mix in the same manner as a cake. Bake in a well-buttered 
and heated muffin-pan about twenty minutes. Serve with 
Sabayon sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 
1-4 a cup of butter. 1-2 a cup of milk. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. - i 1-2 cups of flour. 

1 egg, well beaten. 2 1-2 teaspoonfuls of baking- 

powder. 

Mix as a pake and bake in an agate muffin-pan. Serve 
with lemon, wine or strawberry sauce. 

FRITTERS 

Fritters are used as an entree and also as a part of the sweet 
course. The fruit or other article which gives the specific 
name to the fritter is usually cut in slices, dipped into batter, 
and, when well coated, fried in deep fat. Fritters are served 
sprinkled with powdered sugar or with a sauce. To mix 
fritter batter, sift the flour and salt together; make a hollow 
in the centre and break in the eggs unbeaten ; pour in a little 
milk and stir, adding milk gradually as the flour is taken up 
and liqiiid is needed ; when about half of the quantity of milk 
has been added, beat the mixture until it is full of air bubbles, 
then beat in the rest of the milk and let stand an hour before ' 
using. Another method of preparing fritter batter is as fol- 
lows: beat the eggs until whites and yolks are well mixed, 
then add the milk and stir together into the flour and salt 
sifted together. A third method is to add the yolks with the 
milk, and the stiff-beaten whites just before using. 

There are several points which it were well to keep in mind 
when mixing batters : 

1. Beat thoroughly, before adding all the liquid, as it is 
difficult to beat a thin batter smooth. 

2. A batter containing few eggs needs be made thicker with 
flour than one containing more eggs. 

3. If possible a batter should stand at least an hour before 
using; several hours in cold weather, or overnight, is prefer- 
able. 

4. When the egg is separated and the white is beaten stiff 



542 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

before adding, do not mix with the other ingredients until 

ready to use. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

1 1-3 cups of flour. I egg. ■ 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2-3 a cup of milk. 
1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 2 sour apples. 

Sift together the flour, baking-powder and salt; beat the 
eggs, add the milk and stir into the dry ingredients. Pare, 
core and. cut the apples in small pieces and stir into the batter 
after it has stood an hour or more. Drop by spoonfuls into 
deep fat and fry to a delicate brown. Serve as a dessert with 
maraschino or currant jelly sauce. 

SCANDINAVIAN ROSETTES 

Beat four eggs without separating. Add one pint of milk, 
and stir gradually into three cups of flour, sifted with half a 
teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat 
very thoroughly, when half the liquid has been added. The 
eggs might be added with half the milk, as all the milk may not 
be needed. Heat the rosette iron in hot fat. Dip into the 
batter to half its height, and return to the hot fat, until the 
cake is cooked a delicate brown. Shake from the iron on to 
soft paper. Serve, sprinkled with powered sugar, as a dessert 
dish, or spread the rosettes with jam or preserves and ornament 
with whipped cream. The batter should stand an hour after 
being mixed before the rosettes are fried. In winter it may be 
kept for days, and used as occasion requires, either for this or 
other purposes, as to coat quarters of banana for frying. 

GOLDEN BALL FRITTERS (CHOUX PASTE) 

1-2 a cup of boiling water. Grating of lemon rind. 

3 level tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 eggs. 

1-2 a cup of flour. 

Melt the butter in the boiling water, add the flour and cook 
and stir, until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan ; add the 
lemon rind and turn into a cold dish, then beat in the eggs one 
at a time, beating the first in very thoroughly before the second 
is added ; then drop the dough into hot fat by the teaspoonful. 



COFFEE SOUFFLE 543 

Stir the fat when the batter is dropped into it, 'thus causing the 
fritter to take the shape of a ball. Serve hot, rolled in pow- 
dered sugar, or with maple syrup, or common sugar syrup, 
flavored to taste. 

HOT SOUFFLES, OR SOUFFLE PUDDINGS 

Souffles quite generally appear under the list of puddings. 
In reality, if they are to be considered puddings at all, they 
should be classed by themselves, in that they are distinguished 
from ordinary puddings by the fact that raw egg, which re- 
quires little cooking, is added to a foundation that has been 
already well cooked. This foundation is practically an ordi- 
nary sauce like a white sauce. The egg is beaten light and 
folded into the mixture, which is then baked with care, to 
insure a very light texture. Careme advises that souffles be 
made broad, and not high — ^that is, twelve inches by three or 
four ; probably this advice is good as thus less weight is held up 
by the delicate cells. Souffles are successful only when they 
are light and spongy, and fine rather than coarse grained. In 
baking, let the oven be moderately hot. Surround the dish 
by a band of oiled or buttered paper, to afford room for the 
rising of the mixture. Fasten the band together with a drop 
of mucilage or with a pin before the mixture is turned into the 
soufH^ dish. The different varieties of souffles take their 
names from some distinguishing flavor or ingredient (see also 
Fish and Meat Souffles, under the chapter on Entries). 
COFFEE SOUFFLE (MARIETTA McPHERSON) 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i-8 a teaspoonful of salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. The yolks of three eggs. 

I cup of black coffee. The whites of three eggs. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 

Make a sauce of the first three ingredients — i. e., melt the 
butter, and in it cook the flour until frothy, then add the 
cofSee gradually and stir until thick and smooth. Remove 
from the fire, add the sugar, salt, and yolks of eggs, beaten 
until thick and smooth. Remove from the fire, add the sugar, 
salt, and yolks of eggs, beaten until thick; fold in the whites of 
the eggs, beaten very stiff, pour the mixture into a buttered 



544 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

baking-dish, and bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve with coffee sauce. 

CUSTARD SOUFFLE 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. The yolks of four eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. The whites of four eggs. 

I cup of milk. 1-8 a teaspoonful of salt. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. 

Prepare as coffee souffle. Serve with Sabayon, creamy or 
strawberry sauce. 

CHERRY SOUFFLE PUDDING 

1-4 a cup of butter. 4 ounces or one cup of bread- 

1-2 a cup of flour. crumbs. 

I 1-2 cups of milk. ' The grated rind of one-half a 

1-2 a cup of cream. lemon. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 3 eggs. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 6 ounces of stoned cherries. 
Glac6 cherries. 

Melt the butter, add the flouf and salt and cook until frothy ; 
add the milk and cream gradually, let cook a few moments 
and then add the crumbs, the grated rind and the yolks of 
the eggs, beaten and mixed with the sugar, and lastly the 
stoned cherries and the :whites of the eggs, whisked to a stiff 
froth. Turn into a buttered mould, decorated with glac^ 
cherries, and steam an hour and a half. Turn onto a hot dish 
and serve with wine sauce of a fruit pur^e. This soufH6 may 
be baked and served from the baking-dish. 

MACAROON SOUFFLE 

I dozen macaroons. ' French fruit, chopped fine. 

I cup of milk. Whipped cream. 

3 eggs. 

Scald the macaroons in the milk, pour over the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, and cook over hot water until thickened 
slightly; fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, and bake 
in a buttered mould, set in a pan of hot water, about twenty 
minutes. Turn from the mould, sprinkle the top with the 
fruit, and surround with the whipped cream. 




CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING A LA DAVID HARUM. (See page 5,12.) 




MACAROON SOUFFLE. (See page 544.) 




FRYING SCANDINAVL\N ROSETTES (See page 542.) 



OMELET SOUFFLE' S4S 

COCOANUT SOUFFLE (BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL) 

11-2 cups of milk. i tablespoonful of butter, 

1-3 a cup of sugar. i cup of cocQanut. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. The whites of four eggs. 

Mix the cornstarch, sugar and cocoanut, and stir into the 
hot milk; let cook ten minutes, stirring occasionally; add the 
butter and fold in the whites of the eggs. Bake in individual 
moulds, buttered and sprinkled with sugar, about twelve 
minutes. Let the moulds stand in a dish of hot water. Turn 
from the moulds, put a spoonful of strawberry jam upon the 
top and pour around iae souffles a pint of boiled custard, 
made with the yolks o . the eggs. Put the jelly in place on 
serving, to avoid displacement while they are being brought 
to the dining-room. 

SPONGE BATTER PUDDING 

11-2 cups of hot milk. The yolks of four eggs. 

1-2 a cup of flour. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

1-2 a cup of cold milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. The whites of four eggs. 

Stir the flour, salt and cold milk together until smooth, 
then cook in the hot milk ten minutes; add the butter and 
yolks of eggs, beaten with the sugar, and fold in the whites of 
the eggs, beaten stiff. Bake in a well-buttered pudding-dish 
about thirty minutes. The heat of the oven should be mod- 
erate and the dish should stand in hot water during the bak- 
ing (see Souffles). Serve with Sabayon, wine or creamy 

sauce. 

OMELET SOUFFLE 

^ eggs. The grated rind of one-half a 

3 tablespoonfuls of powdered lemon. 

sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light-colored and thick; 
add the sugar gradually, then the grated rind and lemon juice; 
pour this mixture over the whites of the eggs, beaten with 
the salt until dry; and cut and fold the two together. Turn in- 



546 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING . 

to a buttered baking-dish, or into individual cases, and bake in 
a quick oven until well pufEed and of a delicate brown color. 
Serve at once with hard or Sabayon sauce. For directions in 
respect to omelets, see chapter on eggs. 

RUM OMELET 

6 eggs. 4 tablespoonf uls of rum or lemon 
3 tablespoonfuls of powdered juice and water. 

sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-2 a cup of hot Jamaica rum. 

Prepare and cook as any omelet (see chapter on eggs), 
letting the omelet be rather underdon>>. ' Turn onto a serving- 
dish, pour over the rum, light and s'.nd to the table while 
burning. 

PINEAPPLE OMELET 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 5 eggs. 

I cup' of grated pineapple . 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cook the flour and salt in the bubbling butter; add the 
pineapple (juice and pulp) gradually, the sugar and the lemon 
juice and let cook ten minutes, then remove from the fire and 
stir into the yolks of the eggs, beaten very light; fold in the 
whites of the eggs, beaten dry, and turn into the frying-pan, 
in which the butter is melted. Cook as a puffy omelet, turn 
onto the serving-dish and sift powdered sugar thickly over the 
top. Score diagonally with a hot iron. Serve surrounded 
with a second cup of .grated pineapple, cooked with one- 
fourth a cup of sugar, to which a tablespoonful of lemon jtiice 
has been added, to bring out the flavor of the pineapple. If 
preferred, garnish wi'th quarter slices of pineapple, saturated 
with hot syrup and flavored to taste. Rum is considered the 
proper flavor. Oranges, strawberries or raspberries may 
take the place of the pineapple, and any one of these may be 
added to a plain French or puffy omelet. In using berries 
as a garnish, mix with powdered sugar; if raspberry seeds be 
objectionable, crush the berries and press through a sieve, 
then mix with sugar. Oranges should be sliced. 



OMELET 547 

OMELET WITH STRAWBERRY JAM AND CHERRIES 

3 eggs. I tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of maraschino. Strawberry jam. 

1-3 a cup of maraschino cherries. Cherries and maraschino. 

Beat the yolks very light and add the maraschino and the 
cherries cut in pieces ; fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten dry, 
and turn into a hot omelet pan, in which the butter has been 
melted. Spread the mixture evenly and let cook a moment on 
the cover, to set the eggs, then put into the oven until cooked. 
A knife cut down into the centre of the omelet will indicate 
this; the egg needs be set, but only lightly. Score the omelet 
at right angles to the handle of the pan, spread one-half 
lightly with the jam, turn on to the serving-dish and surround 
with a narrow wreath of jam, diluted with maraschino from 
the cherry bottle, and cherries. 



Sweet Sauces. 



CHAPTER XXII 

Sweet Sauces 

SYNOPSIS OP CHAPTER 

f Sauces thickened with starchy materials. 
Liquid, i Sauces thickened with egg emulsion. 
i Fruit jtiice sauces. 



Solid. 



{ 



Hard. 
Fruit jellies. 

Sauces for sweet dishes may be considered as solid or liquid. 
The solid sauces include "hard sauce," so called, and the 
various 'fruit jellies. The liquid sauces make up the larger 
division, and may be subdivided according to the material that 
gives them consistency, as a starchy material, egg emulsion, 
sugar syrup alone, or sugar in conjunction with a fruit pur^e. 
Sauces served with ices are given under the subject of frozen 
desserts. 

SAUCES THICKENED WITH STARCHY MATERIAL, 

All sauces of this description may be made with white roux 
as described on page 22. By preference, however, the starchy 
ingredient, flour, cornstarch or arrowroot, is mixed with the 
sugar by sifting, and the grains of starch, thus separated, 
are stirred into a hot liquid, milk, water or fruit juice. Flavor- 
ing is added at pleasure, aiid a little butter just at the point 
of serving. Starch, here, as always, needs thorough cooking 
to be palatable. Add flavor and butter afterwards. 

MARASCHINO SAUCE 

Sift together one teaspoonful of arrowroot and one-third a 
cup of granulated sugar, pour on two-thirds a cup of boiling 

548 



TUTTI FRUTTI SAUCE 549 

water and cook five minutes; add half a tablespoonful of 
butter, one-fourth a cup of maraschino cherries cut in halves, 
half a cup of maraschino syrup, and a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Cornstarch or flour may be used, but the arrowroot 
gives a clearer and less opaque sauce Serve with baked 
bananas, banana or apple fritters, custard souffle, German 
puffs, or cottage pudding. 

MQCK CREAM 

(to be used in place of cream on boiled rice, etc.) 

Scald one pint of milk in a double-boiler ; stir into this two 
teaspoonfuls of cornstarch, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and let cook ten minutes. When cold and ready to 
serve add a teaspoonful of vanilla and the whites of two eggs, 
beaten until frothy. 

BRANDY SAUCK (FOR STEAMED PUDDINGS) 

Sift together one-fourth a cup of flour and one cup of sugar ; 
stir in a pint of boiling water and let' cook fifteen minutes, 
stirring constantly at first, and occasionally afterwards; add 
one-fourth a cup of butter in little bits, beating constantly, 
meanwhile. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla or brandy 
to taste. Brown sugar gives a difierently flavored sauce. If 
this be used, make a white roux with the butter and flour, add 
the water and then the sugar and flavoring. 

TUTTI FRUTTI SAUCE (FOR BAKED BANANAS, FRITTERS, 

ETC.) 

Remove the stems from half a cup of sultana raisins and 
wash in cold water; add one-fourth a cup, each, of chopped 
citron and blanched almonds and a cup of boiling water and 
let simmer an hour, or until the raisins are tender. Ten 
minutes before serving, stir in a level teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, sifted with three-fourths a cup of sugar (there should 
now be a generous cup of water with the fruit), and let cook 
six or eight minutes. Add a tablespoonful of butter and lemon 
or vanilla if desired. 



5 so PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BANANA SAUCE 

4 ripe bananas. i cup of water. 

3 oranges. 2 level teaspoonfuls of arrow- 

1 tart apple, thin-sliced. root or cornstarch. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. 
Pass the pulp of the bananas through a ricer or sieve and 
add the pulp of the oranges, the apple, sliced, and the water; 
when boiling stir in the sugar, thoroughly mixed with the 
cornstarch, and stir until the boiling point is reached, then 
let simmer ten minutes; strain and serve. 

LEMON OR ORANGE SAUCE 

2 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Juice and grated rind of one 
I cup of sugar. lemon or orange. 

1 pint of boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

See "Sauce Thickened with Starchy Materials." 
ROYAL SAUCE 

2 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch or 1-2 a cup of jelly or jam. 

arrowroot. The juice of one-half a lemon. 

Cold water to pour. i tablespoonful of brandy at 

I cup of boiling water. discretion. 

Cook the cornstarch, diluted with water, in the boiling 
water five minutes; add the jelly or jam, beaten smooth, and 
let simmer three or four minutes; add sugar, if needed, and 
the lemon juice; strain and serve. 

SAUCES THICKENED WITH EGG EMULSION 
For boiled custard see page 499. 

SABAYON SAUCE (FOR CUSTARD SOUFFLE, COTTAGE 
PUDDING, ETC.) 

In the upper part of a double-boiler put one whole egg and 
two yolks and beat until well mixed; then add half a cup of 
sugar and beat thoroughly. Set over very hot but not actually 
boiling water and beat while half a cup of sherry wine is 
gradually stirred in. When the sauce has thickened slightly, 
add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and turn into a cold dish to 
arrest the cooking. Serve at once. This is a rich and most 



MOUSSELINE SAUCE 551 

delicious sauce. Care needs be taken to avoid curdling the 
egg. Lift the saucepan from the water, occasionally, which 
should not reach the boiling point. 

ORANGE SABAYON SAUCE 

In the upper part of a double-boiler cream one-fourth a 
cup of butter; add the yolks of four eggs, one at a time, and 
beat in thoroughly; then add one-fourth a cup of sugar and, 
when all are blended, four tablespoonfuls of cream, and cook 
over hot water, stirring constantly. When thickened slightly 
add one-fourth a cup of orange juice and one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. 

COLD COFFEE SAUCE 

(for coffee souffle, filling for cream puffs, etc.) (Marietta 

McPherson) 
2 eggs. 1-2 a cup of clear, black coffee. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a cup of double cream. 

A few grains of salt. 
Beat the eggs, add the sugar and salt and cook in the coffee 
infusion as a boiled custard. When the mixture coats the 
spoon, strain into a cold dish, and when cold and ready to 
serve fold in the cream beaten stiff. 

COLD CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

(for chocolate, vanilla or custard souffle or other hot 

pudding) 

2 eggs. 1-2 a cup of hot milk. 

1-3 a cup of sugar. 1-2 a cup of double cream. 

1-2 an ounce of chocolate. 1-4 a teaspoonful of ground 

2 tablespoonfuls of hot water. cinnamon . 

1-2 a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Melt the chocolate, add a teaspoonful of sugar and the hot 
water, and cook until smooth and glossy; then add to the njilk 
and continue as for cold coffee sauce. 

MOUSSELINE SAUCE (HOT) 

Beat the yolks of five eggs very hght; add one-fourth a cup 
of sugar and one-fourth a cup of maraschino and beat while 
cooking over hot water; when thickened, remove from the fire, 
and fold in the whites of two eggs, beaten dry, and reheat, 



552 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

if necessary, to set the white of egg. The sauce should be very 
light like a souffle. Good with any hot pudding. Serve in a 
dish apart. 

COLD MOUSSELINE SAUCE WITH FRUIT PUREE 

Boil half a cup of water and three-fourths a cup of sugar to 
the thread degree, then stir in a fine stream onto the beaten 
yolks of six eggs, beating constantly meanwhile; add two 
tablespoonfuls of Kirsch and a half a cup of strawberry or 
raspberry pur^e (fresh berries mashed and passed through a 
sieve). Set the dish on ice and stir with a whisk until cold, 
then fold in three-fourths a cup of whipped and drained 
cream and the whites of three eggs, beaten dry. Let stand 
on ice until ready to serve. Suitable for ices and cold pud- 
dings. (This sauce may also be frozen and served as a par- 
fait.) 

15 CREAMY SAUCE 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of water to a thick 
syrup (six or eight minutes), and pour in a fine stream onto 
the white of an egg, beaten until foamy but not dry. Set the 
sauce into a dish of ice water and beat until cold, then fold in 
a cup of whipped cream. Flavor to taste. 

CREAMY SAUCE, NO. z 

(CHARLOTTE RUSSE CREAM) 

Flavor one pint of double cream with wine or a teaspoonful 
of vanilla and beat solid with a whisk or Dover egg-beater. 
Beat the whites of two eggs until dry; fold in one cup of pow- 
dered sugar and beat them lightly into the whipped cream. 
Serve very cold with blanc-mange, baked apples, compotes, 

etc. 

LEMON SAUCE 

Cream half a cup of butter, add gradually one cup of pow- 
dered sugar, and beat until light; add the whites of two eggs, 
one at a time, beating steadily. When about rekdy to serve, 
set the sauce-pan, containing the sauce, in boiling water over 
the fire; add one-fourth a cup of lemon juice and one- fourth a 
cup of boiling water and stir until creamy. Remove to a 



CURRANT JELLY SAUCE SS3 

cooler dish and serve at once. The flavor of lemon will be 
heightened by grating a little of the yellow rind into the 
butter and sugar. 

YELLOW SAUCE 

Beat the yolk of an egg until light, and the white untiL 
foamy; add half a cup of sugar to the yolk, then fold in the 
white ; add half a teaspoonful of vanilla, and one cup of scalded 
milk; mix thoroughly and serve. 

FROTHY SAUCE 

Cream half a cup of butter and a cup of sugar and add the 
frothed white of an egg; stir in half a cup of boiling water, two 
tablecpoonfuls of wine and a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

FRUIT JUICE SAUCE 

Put the fruit in a jar with from half to a whole cup of water 
to a pint of fruit, cover and let stand or a trivet, in a pail of 
water brought slowly to the boiling point, half an hour or more, 
or until the juice flows freely. Pass through a cheesecloth, 
and thicken one pint of juice with half to a whole cup of sugar 
mixed with one or two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Cook 
from five to ten minutes, skimming as needed. The sugar 
is often used without the cornstarch. 

COLD STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

Hull, wash, and drain a basket of ripe strawberries and 
press them through a ricer. Boil together three-fourths a 
cup of sugar and half a cup of water ten minutes ; let cool, add 
the strawberry pulp and, if desired, half a teaspoonful of va- 
nilla. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Boil together ten minutes half a cup of apricot marmalade, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and four tablespoonfuls of water; 
add the juice of half a lemon and pour over and around a 
chocolate Bavarian cream or a hot mould of brioche. 
CURRANT JELLY SAUCE 

Boil one cup of granulated sugar and one-third a cup of 
water, without stirring, four or five minutes; add four (level) 



554 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

tablespoonfuls of currant jelly. As soon as the sauce boils 
again, add the juice of a lemon and strain through a fine sieve. 
If a very fine sauce be desired, add a handful of preserved or 
candied cherries. 

'» CHERRY SAUCE (HOT OR COLD PUDDINGS) 

Simmer one cup of stoned cherries, one cup of claret, two 
tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, the yellow peel of a lemon, an 
inch of cinnamon bark and one-fourth a cup of sugar, until 
reduced nearly one-half; remove the cinnamon bark and 
lemon peel before serving. 

BANANA PUREE FOR BRIOCHE TIMBALES, ETC. 

Press the pulp of two bananas, the juice and pulp of an 
orange and one-fourth a cup of apricot marmalade through a 
sieve; add one-fourth a cup of sugar and heat over boiling 
water; when thoroughly scalded let cool and, before serving, 
add, at discretion, one tablespoonful, each, of maraschino 
and brandy. Serve with cold or iced desserts. 

COLD ORANGE SAUCE 

I cup of sugar. The juice and pulp of four oranges 

I cup of water. The juice of half a lemon. 

I teaspoonful of gelatine. 1-4 a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
3 tablespoonfuls of cold water. tract. 

Boil the sugar and water ten minutes; add the gelatine, 
softened in the cold water, let cool and strain into the fruit 
juice; add the extract, or cook a vanilla bean in the syrup. 
Cool beforie using. 

HARD SAUCE (FOR HOT PUDDINGS) 

Cream half a cup of butter and add very gradually a cup 
of sugar, beating between each addition; when all the sugar 
has been added and the mixture is very light, add, one by one, 
the whites of two eggs, and when again very light add the 
flavoring drop by drop. A teaspoonful of vanilla, a table- 
spoonful of brandy, rum or wine, or a grating of nutmeg, are 
preferred. The egg whites may be omitted. This sauce may 



MERINGUE SSS 

be shaped in a neat mould on a small choice dish, or it may be 
disposed in a wreath around a dark fruit pudding. Arranged 
in the latter fashion, a silver fork may be used to give a scroll- 
like effect to the surface. 

HARD SAUCE WITH FRUIT * 

Prepare as above, using the white of one egg, then beat in 
very gradually one cup of mashed strawberries or raspber- 
ries. The raspberries should be strained, to eliminate the 
seeds. These fruits are favorites, but others may be used. 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

Put half a cup of sugar into a saucepan over the fire, and 
stir the sugar until it melts and becomes of light-brown color; 
add half a cup of boiling water and allow the liquid to simmer 
five minutes. 

CARAMEL SAUCE, NO. 2 

Boil three-fourths a cup of sugar, an inch of stick cinnamon, 
two cloves, a thin paring of yellow rind of lemon, and a cup of 
boiling water ten minutes; strain over one-fourth a cup of 
sugar, cooked to the caramel degree, let boil two or three 
minutes and then keep hot until the caramel is dissolved. 
Serve, either with or without three tablespponfuls of sherry, 
with baked custards, cabinet pudding, boiled rice, etc. 

BURNT CREAM SAUCE 

In a small sauce-pan, over the fire, stir half a cup of sugar 
until it becomes a golden-brown caramel; add one pint of 
thin cream and set over hot water until the caramel liquefies. 

MERINGUE (FOR PUDDINGS AND PIES) 

Use two tablespoonfuls of powdered or confectioners' sugar 
for each white of egg, and half a teaspoonful of flavoring ex- 
tract for each four whites of eggs. Beat the whites until stiff, 
but not quite dry — whites of eggs are beaten "dry" when the 
bowl containing them may be inverted without bisturbing 
the contents; beat in gradually one-half of the sugar, and 



5s6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

continue the beating until the mixture is very firm and glossy; 
then fold in the flavoring and the other half of the sugar. 
The surface upon which the meringue is to be spread should 
first be cooled somewhat. The meringue may be spread 
j^^evenly, or piled in a dome-shape in the centre. A part of the 
mixture may be reserved and put in place with a pastry bag 
and tube. Cook in a moderate oven from eight to twelve 
minutes, according to the thickness of the meringue. 



CHAPTER XXIII 
Fruit, Fresh and Cooked, for Immediate Use 



FRESH FRUIT AND ITS SERVICE 

"If stfawbemes be not in season, buy them not at a great price. 
It is neither art nor courtesy to invite your friends to be 'eating money,' 
as the saying is. A guest should be led to think always that her meal 
tasted pleasantly, never that its cost was disagreeable. " 



AVERAGE CHEMICAI. COMPOSItlON OP FRfiSH 

(ATWAtER) 



FRtJlT. AS PURCHASED. 



ilefuse 
Per 
cent. 

Apples 25.0 

Apricots 6.6 

Bananas 3S-o 

Blackberries . . 

Cherries. ..... 5.0 

Cranberries. . . 

Currants 

Figs 

Grapes 25.(5 

Huckleberries.. 

Lemons 30.0 

Muskmelons . . 50.0 

Oranges 27.0 

Pears i o . o 

Pineapple (edi- 
ble portion) 

Plums s . b 

Prunes 5.8 

Raspberries 

(red) 

Strawberries. . 5 .0 

Watermelons. . S9-4 



Water 
Per 
cent 



63 
?9 
48 
86 
76 
88 
85 
79 
S8 
81 
62 
44 
63 
76 

89 

74 
75 

8S 
85 
37 



Protein 

Pef 

cent. 



Pat 
Per 
cent. 



557 



■ 4 

1 .0 

.8 

.6 



1 . 2 
.6 



. I 
■ 4 



.6 
. I 



Carbo- 
hydrates 
Per 
cent. 

10.8 

12.6 

14.3 
10.9 

15-9 
9.9 
12.8 
18.8 
14.4 
14. 6 

59 
4.6 

8.5 
12.7 

9-7 
19. 1 

17-4 

12.6 
7.0 

2.7 



Ash 
Per 

cent. 

3 
5 
6 

5 
6 
2 

7 
6 

4 

3 

4 

3 

4 ■ 

4 

3 

5 
5- 

6 
6 
3 



Fuel Val. 

p«f lb. 

Calories 

220 
225 
300 
'470 
34S 
215 
265 
380 
335 
34S 
145 
90 
170 
260 

200 
370 
3SS 

255 
17s 
140 



Dates lo.o 13 

Figs 18 

Prunes iS- o 19 

Raisins 10. o 13 



558 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

DRIED FRUITS 

Carbo- 

Refuse Water Protein Fat hydrates Ash Fuel Val. 

Per Per Per Per Per Per per lb. 

cent. cent. cent. cent. cent. cent. Calories 

Currants 17.2 .1.4 1.7 74.2 4.5 i-49S 

1.9 2.5 70.6 1.2 I -450 

4-3 -3 74-^ ^-4 I-47S 

1.8 62. 2 2.0 I. 190 

2.3 3.0 68.5 3.i 1.45s 

As WILL be seen by a glance at the table showing the com- 
position of various kinds of fruit, the food value of fruit de- 
pends upon the carbohydrates, which is chiefly in the form 
of sugar. In but a few varieties does the proteid principle 
reach one per cent. The date and plantain, of which the 
banana is a variety, contain, however, sufficient nutriment 
to sustain life. But fruit is valuable for other than its nutri- 
tive qualities: eaten freely it introduces large quantities of 
water into the system, as well as salts and organic acids that 
improve the quality of the blood. It also gives a relish to 
plainer foods. The largest use of fruit is with some form of 
starch in sweet dishes, but it is quite as acceptable, after a 
taste for it has been acquired without sugar, with meats. 

PROPER TIME TO EAT FRUIT, DIETETICALLY 
CONSIDERED 

When fruit is eaten uncooked, for special dietetic purposes, 
the effect is always more pronounced if it be taken alone an 
hour before the meal, or between meals. An exception would 
seem wise in the case of berries containing hard seeds; these 
are likely to cause less intestinal irritation when eaten with 
bread or other bulky food. Taken at the close of a meal, the 
water in fruit is liable to interfere with digestion, until such 
time as it can be absorbed by the linings of the stomach. 

The diuretic influence of fruit is in part due to the water in 
composition, but principally to the presence of organic acids 
and salts, which stimulate the circulation of the blood and 
also the action of the kidneys. 

The laxative action of fruits is partly — but not wholly — 
due to indigestible and irritating substances, as the seeds of 



FRESH FRUIT AT MEALS 559 

figs and berries and the skins of prunes. Children,, and older 
people who are not in robust health, need avoid the seeds and 
tough skins even of cooked fruit, nor should they indulge in 
fruit of coarse fibre. 

To be wholesome, fruit needs be ripe, but not overripe. 
As fruit ripens the starch in composition is changed into 
levulose or glucose, substances more assimilable than starch, 
and pectin, a carbohydrate (principle), which occasions the 
jellying of fruit when it is boiled, is formed. The tannin and 
vegetable acids are also changed and the fruit becomes less 
astringent. If fruit be overripe, bacteria, which have already 
begun the tearing-down process, are introduced into the 
alimentary tract, and malfermentation with pain, cramps, 
nausea and other attendant ills, is likely to ensue. 

TO SERVE UNCOOKED FRUIT 

Fruit is most inviting when it is fresh-gathered, or picked 
with the heat of the sun upon it; exception is td be made in 
the case of melons, which are best when thoroughly chilled. 
Green leaves are needed in arranging fruit for the table or 
sideboard. In case the natural leaves of the fruit itself are 
not admissible, grape, currant or laurel leaves may be called 
into requisition. In this connection it might be noticed that 
time was when fruit was made a notable feature in table 
decoration ; but at the present day — save at Thanksgiving or 
harvest spreads — fruit, except, perhaps, a basket of choice 
strawberries, or cherries with blossoms and leaves, seems no 
longer admissible for this purpose. 

FRESH FRUIT AT MEALS 

The English custom is to serve fruit at the close of the break- 
fast, but, dietetically considered, the beginning of the meal is 
preferable in point of propriety. 

Theoretically, acid fruit should not be combined at the same 
meal, with starchy food, for the digestive action of the ptyalin 
of the saliva is inhibited in the presence of an acid. On this 
accoimt the sweet fruits, dates, figs and bananas, are to be 
given first place as breakfast fruits; while mildly acid fruits, 



s6o PRACTICAL COOKING AND 'SERVING 

pineapples, grapes, peaches, pears, some varieties of apples, 
preferably cooked, sweet oranges and berries are indicated 
as a second choice. Acid fruits should accompany meats. 
Fruit is almost universally eaten with sugar, but the combina- 
, tion cannot be considered hygienic, being very liable to pro-" 
duce malfermentation in the alimentary tract. 

APPLES 

Apples may be polished for table service, but unless cooked 
they are eaten preferably between meals. The different ways 
in which they may be acceptably cooked for the table is 
almost limitless. 

PEARS 

Pears may be polished, and when fully ripe, being of finer 
texture than apples, they are more readily digested, and hence 
are better adapted than raw apples to table service. They 
are chiefly valuable on account of their aroma and flavor. 

ORANGES 

Sweet Oranges are particularly valuable, since they are 
palatable without sugar. Oftentimes in sickness, in case of 
great gastric irritation, when food is not well borne, the juice of 
a ripe orange will be found very acceptable. In cases of 
flatulency, the juice will be found most agreeable, taken un- 
diluted and with the avoidance of even a trace of the oil from 
the rind. The oil or zest of both lemons and oranges is found 
entirely in the yellow rind. Even when fresh, this oil, though 
most palatable, will cause eructation from the stomach. This 
fact should be noted most carefully in removing the juice 
of these fruits for jellies or ices. With a spoon or a glass 
lemon squeezer the juice may be extracted without trace of 
the zest. 

WAYS TO SERVE ORANGES 
AT BREAKFAST 

Cut the oranges in halves, crosswise. Half an orange ,is 
one service. Serve on a plate with an orange spoon. 'Pow- 
dered sugar is passed. Grape fruit is served in the same way. 




s 
< 
w 

o 

Q 

< 

Pi 
< 
'J 



M 

m 




w 
o 

o 

w 
> 

M 



O 



SALPICON OF FRUIT 561 

SECTION OF ORANGE PULP, FREED FROM MEMBRANE 

Peel an orange. With a thin-bladed, sharp knife cut down 
from the surface to the centre at one side of a membrane en- 
closmg a section of pulp, then cut down close to the 
pulp, on the other side of the membrane; a third time 
cut down to the centre, close to the next membrane, 
and take out the section of pulp, thus loosened, in one 
piece; then cut down close to the other side of a membrane, 
taking out the pulp as before. So proceed, until all pulp is 
removed, when the whole membrane or framework of the 
orange will be left in one piece. 

SECTIONS OF ORANGE, HELD ON BAND OF PEEL 

Score the peel of an orange at both ends, so as to leave a 
solid band about an inch wide around the centre, and cut 
away the rest of the peel. Sever the band at the junction of 
two sections, and separate the sections from each other, leav- 
ing all attached to the band. 

ORANGE IN SECTIONS, PEEL RETAINED 

Score the orange in eighths, from the stem nearly to the 
blossom end, and carefully loosen the peel; then loosen the 
sections from one another, without removing them from the 
peel at the blossom end. Serve in this way; or roll inward 
the points of the peel, to form a border around the base of the 
fruit. Serve in a fruit dish with other fruit, or on individual 
plates. 

SALPICON OF FRUIT IN GRAPE FRUIT BASKET 

Cut grape fruit in halves. Remove and s^ve the pulp and 
juice, discarding the fibrous part. With a pinking iron and 
sharp knife decorate the edge of the shells. A ribbon may be 
run through the openings, if approved. Avoid open decora- 
tions at a distance from the edge, for obvious reasons. Let the 
shells chill on ice, and at serving time fill with the juice and 
pulp of the fruit, white grapes, skinned and seeded, and thin 
slices of bananas, chilled and mixed with powdered sugar. 



562 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Serve as a first or last course at a formal luncheon. Other 
fruit may be used and the Salpicon may be served in sherbet, 
frapp^ or champagne glasses. Wine may be added at pleasure. 

PINEAPPLES 

The pineapple is the only fruit that is known materially to 
aid digestion. The pineapple contains a principle,, vegetable 
pepsin, that digests albuminous substances. When fresh 
juice of the fruit is combined in dishes with milk, eggs or gela- 
tine, the digestive process is at once inaugurated and a bitter- 
tasting dish results. Scalding the juice destroys this digestive 
principle, and should be observed when the juice is to be com- 
bined with such substances. 

But to get the full benefit of the digestive principle, as also 
the antiseptic and germicidal properties of the pineapple juice, 
the fruit needs be eaten fresh and without sugar. Thus taken, 
its beneficial effects can scarcely be overestimated. It is par- 
ticularly useful in all catarrhal conditions of the throat and 
alimentary tract, and is almost a specific in malarial troubles. 
The woody fibre in a perfectly ripe pineapple has become 
softened in the ripening process, but when this condition has 
not been reached the juice only should be ingested. 

PINEAPPLE, SHREDDED 

Remove the tough outer surface of the pineapple, then 
with a silver fork, following the lines made by the bracts, cut 
around the single fruits and remove them, one by one, from the 
hard centre. Sprinkle with sugar if desired. Serve at break- 
fast or luncheon. 

PINEAPPLE AND ORANGES, HALF FROZEN 

Cut off the top of a large pineapple. Pare away the base 
so that it may stand upright and firm on the plate. With 
knife and strong spoon scoop out the pulp of the apple and 
separate the same from the hard centre. Peel about four 
sweet oranges, slice lengthwise and remove the seeds ; mix the 
juice and pulp of the oranges and pineapple with sugar to 
taste; put in a fruit jar with close-fitting cover and pack in 



STRAWBERRIES, FRENCH FASHION 563 

three measures of ice to one of salt ; let stand an hour or more. 
When ready to serve turn the mixture into the chilled shell of 
the pineapple and garnish the base with leaves of the crown. 
Pineapple alone, when a second one will be required, straw- 
berries, bananas, or peaches may be used in the place of the 
oranges. Half a cup of orange, less of lemon juice, is an im- 
provement, when bananas are used. If bananas are not used, 
half a cup or more of Jamaica rum is considered an improve- 
ment by many. It is not safe to use any sort of spirits -with 
uncooked bananas. 

PEACHES, HALF FROZEN 

Cut very ripe peaches into halves and remove the stones and 
skins ; sprinkle with powdered sugar and put into the can of a 
freezer ; pack the can in crushed ice without salt, or with very 
little salt, and let stand until the peaches are half frozen. 
Arrange in a glass serving-dish, in the form of a wreath, and 
sprinkle again with sugar. Pile thick cream, sweetened, 
flavored and whipped, in the centre of the dish. 

PEACHES AND GRAPES (FOR INVALID'S TRAY) 

Select large, ripe, juicy peaches and brush the surface of 
each gently with a soft brush, to remove the down. Select 
a bunch of sweet, juicy grapes : if procured at the market, let 
water from the faucet run gently over them a few moments, 
then drain in a cool place. All grapes and berries procured at 
market need be rinsed in water and drained before sending 
to table. 

STRAWBERRIES, FRENCH FASHION 

Select clean, ripe berries. Remove neither hulls nor stems, 
but with soft brush touch the surface of each berry gently, as 
also the sepals on both sides, to remove any sand. Garnish 
with strawberry leaves and blossoms. Serve with a spoonful 
of sifted, powdered sugar, from a separate dish. If the berries 
have not been fresh-gathered, chill before serving. Serve at 
breakfast, ot as the first course (appetizer) or last course 
(dessert) of a luncheon. 



564 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MELONS 

Melons, though eaten as fruit, are in reality vegetables. 
They belong to the same family as the squash. Among the 
children of Israel in the wilderness, a cause of murmuring was 
the lack of cucumbers and melons, for which the people longed. 
Indeed, the melon, which is one of the earliest known vege- 
tables, seems always to have been much relished. "The 
Emperor Frederick, of Germany, and Maximilian II were 
alike so inordinately fond of melons that they both became 
ultimately victims to the passion. " Atwater gives fifty per 
cent, of the muskmelon as waste matter, and of the remaining 
part 44.8 is water, a most grateful contribution to the summer 
diet. The nutritive value of melons, represented by the sweet 
elements, is very small, but they contain no indigestible fibrous 
matter. The Chinese method of serving melons — that is, 
half frozen — is well adapted to bring out their delicacy and 
flavor. Melons are really wholesome only when eaten' fresh 
from the vine, after chilling. 

TO SERVE WATERMELONS ' 

Chill by standing on ice several hours. Cut the ends even, 
that the halves may stand level, then send to the table cut in 
halves crosswise, each half resting on a mat of grape or currant 
leaves. With a tablespoon scoop out the red pulp in egg- 
shaped pieces. Serve on chilled plates. The pulp may also 
be scooped out and sent to the table in half of the shell or in 
a handsome dish. The pulp from the whole melon will be 
needed to fill half the shell. 

WATERMELON A LA STEAMER PRISCILLA 

Cut a section, four inches thick, from the centre of a chilled 
watermelon. Separate the green rind, leaving the edible por- 
tion, a round' of pink melon pulp ; place upon a serving-dish 
of average size. In serving, cut in the same manner as a pie. 

WATERMELON SERVED IN WEDGE-SHAPED SLICES 

Cut the chilled melon in halves, crosswise. Let each half 
rest on a bed of grape leaves, trimming the melon to rest 




SALPICON OF FRUIT IN GRAPE FRUIT BASKKT, (See r'a^c 561 ) 




WATERIIELOX IX WEDGE-SHAFED SLICES. (See paKe 5''4) 




PINEAPPLE AND STRAWBERRIES IN PINEAPPLE SHELL. 
(See page 562.) 



ICE CREAM SERVED IN MUSKMELONS 565 

evenly on the dish. Cut triangular sections from the melon, 
and serve with rind attached. 

MELONS, CHINESE METHOD 

Scoop out the edible pulp with a tablespoon, remove the 
seeds, sprinkle with powdered sugar and grated ginger root, 
turn into the can of the freezer and pack in ice and salt. After 
standing ten minutes, turn the crank, gently, for a few mo- 
ments ; repeat several times. Serve half frozen. Avoid turn- 
ing the crank to crush the pulp. 

MELON SALAD (SWEET) 

Cut the edible portion of a chilled melon into small cubes, 
or take out the pulp in small pieces with a spoon. Mix to- 
gether half a cup of sugar and a scant teaspoonful of cinnamon ; 
sprinkle this over a quart of melon, toss together and serve 
from a salad bowl, or from a bowl basket, fashioned out of the 
shell from which the pulp was taken. 

SALPICON OF FRUIT IN HALVED MUSKMELONS 

Chill small melons, cut in halves and remove seeds, but re- 
tain the pulp intact. Fill with a chilled mixture of sliced 
peaches, shredded pineapple, and sections of orange, removed 
from the membrane and mixed with sugar. 

NUTMEG AND SMALL MELONS 

Chill thoroughly, cut in halves and remove the seeds. Make 
half a melon each service. Sugar and cinnamon, or paprika 
and salt, may be passed in a glass or silver dredger. 

ICE CREAM SERVED IN MUSKMELONS 

Select melons about the size of a large orange. Cut a 
piece from the top of each to serve as a cover. Pass a short 
piece of narrow ribbon through slits in this and tie in a bow 
upon the top, as a means of lifting the cover. Remove the 
seeds from the melons and chill thoroughly on ice. When 
ready to serve, fill the melons with ice cream, and put the 
covers in place. Ice cream, flavored with lemon and cinna- 



S66 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

mon, or with vanilla, and eaten with the pulp of the melon, 
is considered an agreeble combination. The idea dates back 
to the first days of the republic, when ice cream was first made 
in this country. 

CENTREPIECE OF FRUIT FOR THANKSGIVING DINNER 
OR HARVEST FESTIVAL 

Select a golden-colored, medium-sized, well-shaped pump- 
kin. With a sharp knife fashion into the shape of a basket 
with an old-fashioned tub handle on each side. Carefully 
scoop out the seeds and pulp, leaving a thin shell. Polish the 
rind and line the inside neatly with white paper. The paper 
may be held in place with pins. 

Fill the basket with apples, pears, and grapes of various 
hues. A mat of autumn leaves, maple or sumach, gives the 
finishing touch to this table ornament. A fruit basket, fash- 
ioned from a cabbage, is appropriate for halloween. A wooden 
trencher, hand-painted, filled with fruit, is peculiarly adapted 
to this use at Thanksgiving, and a mat, fashioned from stalks 
of ripened grain and bright autumn leaves, can hardly be 
improved upon as a centrepiece for either of these receptacles. 

COOKED FRUITS FOR IMMEDIATE USE 
APPLE SAUCE 

Pare, quarter, and core tart, juicy apples; add a little hot 
water and cook very quickly. When tender, pass through a 
fine colander, add a few grains of salt and sugar, to sweeten to 
taste ; let boil, then turn into a glass dish. Serve cold. 

APPLE SAUCE, NO. 2 

Prepare as above, adding the salt and sugar with the water ; 
let cook until tender over a hot fire. Serve very cold. 

APPLES, DUCHESS STYLE 

With a vegetable scoop cut out about two dozen balls from 
pared apples. Cook in a cup, each, of sugar and water with 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice until tender, but not broken, 
then drain and roll in melted currant jelly. Cook the trim- 



BLUSHING APPLES WITH ORANGE SAUCE 567 

mings of the apples with one or two apples, cut in quarters, 
in a little water; pass through a sieve and simmer in the 
syrup until quite' thick. Dispose the marmalade thus made 
about the balls and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts or 
almonds. 

APPLES IN SYRUP (FOR A GARNISH) 

Make a syrup of a cup, each, of sugar and water. Have 
ready apples cored, pared, and cut .in rings ; rub over the rings 
with the cut side of a lemon, to keep them white. Let cook 
in the syrup, two or three pieces at a time, turning often, to 
keep the shape. 

CHANTILLY APPLE SAUCE WITH HORSERADISH 

Cook about five medium-sized apples, pared and cored, in a 
very little water (steaming is preferable, as they should be 
very dry when cooked), pass through a fine sieve, and add to 
the pulp two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and one- 
fourth a cup of fresh-grated horseradish. When mixed 
thoroughly and cold, fold in an equal bulk of whipped cream. 
Serve separa,tely with young ducks or goslings. 

APPLES BAKED WITH ALMONDS 

Corfe and pare six or eight tart apples ; let simmer in a cup, 
each, of sugar and water boiled together two or three minutes 
until nearly tender. Turn the apples often to avoid breaking. 
A little lemon juice added to the syrup will improve the flavor, 
or, if the apples be rubbed with the cut side of a lemon, it will 
help keep them white during the cooking. Set the apples in 
an agate pan, and press into them almonds, blanched and 
split in halves. Dredge with powdered sugar and brown in 
the oven. Serve hot with jelly or whipped cream and the 
cold syrup in which the apples were cooked. 

BLUSHING APPLES WITH ORANGE SAUCE • 

Core six red apples and cook, without removing the skins, 

in boiling water until tender. Turn the apples often with a 

skimmer, that they may cook evenly. Remove to a plate, 

carefully take off the skins, and scrape off the red pulp adher- 



S68 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ing to the inside of the skins and" replace it on opposite sides 
of each apple. Reduce the water to a cup or less, add a cup 
of sugar and the juice of an orange, also the grated rind, if 
wished; let simmer until a thick syrup is formed; pour this 
oyer the apples. Drop a spoonful of whipped cream on each, 
or serve the cream apart. 

BAKED APPLES, CREOLE STYLE 

Core and pare the apples. Put a little sugar, water, and 
lemon juice into a baking-dish with the apples, and bake until 
tender, but not broken. Remove to a serving-dish, fill the 
centres with jelly or marmalade and pour the liquid from 
the baking-dish over them. Make a meringue with the whites 
of two eggs and four tablespoonfuls of sugar and flavor with 
lemon and vanilla. Press the meringue onto the tops of the 
apples, using a pastry-bag and star tube. Bake in a moderate 
oven about eight minutes. The apples may be steamed or 
boiled in a syrup. Garnish with jelly. 

APPLES WITH JUNKET 

Have ready apples cooked in syrup or baked until tender. 
Set in individual dishes and sprinkle with chopped almonds. 
Heat a pint of fresh milk, to which one-third a cup of sugar 
has been added, until lukewarm (ioo° Fahr.), then stir into it 
half a junket tablet, crushed and dissolved in a tablespoonful 
of cold water, add a few drops of vanilla extract and pour 
into the dish around the apples, which should have been 
cooled. The milk will jelly when cold. Garnish with caildied 
cherries and whipped cream. 

APPLES WITH RICE 

Blanch one cup of rice, then cook in boiling salted water 
until tender, adding more water as needed. When done the 
water" should be absorbed and the kernels of rice distinct. 
Line small, buttered cups with the rice ; fill the centres closely 
with slices of apple cooked until tender, but not broken, in 
sugar and water ; cover the apple with more rice, rounding the 
top slightly. Let steam or cook in the oven, standing in a dish 



JELLIED APPLES 569 

of hot water, about fifteen minutes. Turn from the cups 
onto a serving-dish and serve hot with a cold boiled custard, 
made of a pint of milk, the yolks of four eggs, half a cup of 
sugar and a few grains of salt. Mock cream, hard sauce, 
banana sauce, or lemon sauce, may replace the custard. 

FANCY BAKED APPLES (MARIE MORAN) 

Peel and core medium-sized tart apples. Put them in a 
baking-dish and pour half a cup of water over them. Set 
in a hot oven and, when the apples are heated, sprinkle with 
enough sugar to coat each and bake until tender. Make a 
syrup of one cup of water, half a cup of sugar, the juice of half 
a lemon, and a teaspoonful of the grated rind. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped raisins, two of chopped candied cherries, 
two of chopped candied pineapple, and two of chopped al- 
monds and, when the sugar is dissolved, set at the back of the 
stove and let cook slowly half an hour. When the apples are 
done, put in little glass saucers, taking care not to break them. 
Fill with the cooked sweets and pour the syrup over them. 
Serve cold with whipped cream. 

JELLIED APPLES, GARNISH OF WHIPPED CREAM 

Pare, quarter and core tart apples, and cut the quarters into 
two or three pieces. Put these into an earthen dish, — a new 
bean pot, or a casserole is suitable, — with layers of sugar be- 
tween, using a cup and a half of sugar for about a quart of 
slices. Add a fourth a cup of water, cover and let cook in a 
very slow oven three or more hours. When tender and very 
red and juicy, add to the hot juice drained from the apples 
a scant fourth a package of gelatine, softened in cold water, 
also a little lemon juice, if desired. Carefully lift a few 
pieces of apple at a time and dispose in an earthen bowl; adding 
a teaspoonful of the liquid, until all the ingredients are used. 
Let stand until cold and set, then turn from the mould and 
ornament with a piping of thick cream, beaten solid, or 
surround with thin cream, beaten with a whip churn and 
drained. Syrup from a jar of preserved ginger may be added 
to the cream before whipping. The apples are also particu- 



S70 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

larly good served hot, without gelatine, with cream and pre- 
served ginger. 

JELLIED APPLES (MARIE MORAN) 

Soak half a box of gelatine in half a cup of cold water. 
Peel, core, and quarter two quarts of tart apples. Put a 
pint of water, the same of granulated sugar, the juice of a 
lemon, and a pinch of ginger in a saucepan. When the sugar 
is dissolved, let it boil ten minutes, then put in the apples, a 
few at a time. Let them cook till tender, but not broken. 
Take out with a wire spoon and spread on a dish. When all 
the apples are cooked, pour the gelatine into the syrup, and 
stir until melted. Then set in cold water and stir until it 
begins to jelly. Wet a fancy mould, pour in some of the 
jelly, then arrange the apples in a layer, with a few bits of 
preserved ginger and lemon strewed over them ; pour over the 
rest of the semi-liquid jelly and set the mould away to harden. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

APPLES A LA MANHATTAN 

Pare and core eight medium-sized apples. Make ready 
round pieces of sponge cake — one for each apple — an inch in 
thickness and of the same size as the apple. Sprinkle with 
sugar and set them in the oven until the sugar melts. Make 
a syrup of a cup of sugar and a cup of water. Cook the apples 
very slowly in the syrup. When tender drain and put an 
apple on each bit of cake. Add half a glass of jelly to the 
syrup, cook until it is quite thick, then pour over the whole. 
Garnish with whipped cream and candied cherries. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

Pare and slice four or five times as many apples as will fill 
the dish in which the Charlotte is to be made. Steam these 
until tender ; then add sugar to taste and a generous piece of 
butter and cook the apples over the fire, stirring meanwhile, 
until they are very dry. Prepare sippets of bread an inch 
wide, by removing crust and dipping in melted butter; with 
these line a plain mould, making one sippet overlap another. 




BLUSHIMj apples with orange sauce, (See paje 5')') 




APPLE CHARLOTTE. (See page 57°-) 




APPLES, DUCHESS STYLE, (See page 56^.,) 



COMPOTE OF STUFFED PEARS WITH RICE 571 

Arrange lozenges of bread similarly in the bottom of the mould, 
turn m the apple, piling it high on the top, then cover with 
buttered bread. Bake half an hour in a hot oven. Turn from 
the mould onto a hot dish. Serve with sugar and cream or 
hot sauce. 

APPLE CROQUETTES 

I dozen large apples. 1-2 a teaspoonful of salt. 

3-4 a cup of sugar. 4 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

A grating of lemon rind. The yolks of five eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. (i egg and bread-crumbs.) 

Pare, quarter and core the apples; steam until tender, then 
cook with the sugar and lemon until very dry. Melt the butter 
and in it cook the cornstarch ; add the apple pulp gradually, 
then the slightly beaten yolks of eggs ; cook over hot water 
until the egg is set, then set aside to cool. Shape into cork 
or apple shapes, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve as a garnish for roast goose. The quantity of corn- 
starch may be increased and the number of egg yolks dimin- 
ished accordingly, if desired. The yolk of an egg is equivalent 
to about a level tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

COMPOTE OF STUFFED PEARS \VITH RICE 

Select pears that are not too ripe, pare, and scrape the 
stems. Beginning at the stem end, cut, as to halve, to the 
centre of the pear; then, at a right angle, cut across to the 
first incision, and then remove one-fourth of the fruit. With 
a vegetable gouge remove the core and the blossom end. For 
seven or eight pears make a syrup of a cup and a quarter of 
sugar, a cup of water and the juice of half a lemon. Cook the 
pears, until tender, in the syrup. Cut out rounds of angelica, 
about half an inch in diameter, pierce these with a skewer, 
and slip one or two of them onto the stem of each pear, alter- 
nately with a candied cherry. Put a cherry over the end of 
the stem. Cut fine the trimmings of the angelica and two or 
three cherries, and add to a little quince marmalade. Fill 
the cavities in the pears with this mixture, and arrange on the 
rice. Cook the syrup' to a proper consistency and pour it 
over the dish. Serve hot or cold with of without cream. 



57 2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

For the rice preparation see page 334. Preserved ginger 
may be substituted for the cherries and angelica. 

PYRAMID OF PEACHES 

Cook six or eight peaches, cut in halves and pared, in a cup, 
■ each, of sugar and water boiled to a syrup ; drain and arrange, 
on small round croutons, about a pyramidal-shaped crouton. 
Put a blanched peach kernel or almond into the centre of each 
half peach. Boil the syrup with the juice of half a lemon 
until thick. Serve hot. For the croutons, either fry plain 
rounds of bread in butter, or dip the bread in a mixture of 
milk and egg before frying. 

BLACKBERRY SPONGE 

Fill an earthen bowl closely with small cubes of bread, 
pouring over the bread, as it is fitted into place, hot black- 
berry juice (blackberries cooked until soft, with sugar to taste, 
and passed through a sieve). Use all the juice the bread will 
absorb. Set the sponge aside in a cool place for some hours, 
then turn from the bowl. Serve with blackberries, sugar and 
cream. 

RASPBERRIES WITH RICE CROQUETTES 

I cup of rice. 1-43 cup of whipped cream. 

1-2 a tablespoonful of salt. 1-4 a cup of candied orange peel, 

3 cups of milk. shredded fine. 

The yolks of three eggs. Angelica. 

1-4 a cup of butter. Raspberries, etc. 

1-4 a cup of sugar. 

Blanch the rice, then cook with the salt and candied peel 
in the milk until tender; add the yolks of the eggs, beaten, the 
butter, sugar and cream. When cool form into peach shapes, 
egg and bread-crumb, and fry in deep fat; insert angelica for 
stems. Serve with raspberries dressed with sugar or cold 
syrup. 

BANANAS WITH RICE 

Prepare a border of cooked rice. Use rice croquette mix- 
ture, omitting the candied peel; pack the rice in a buttered 




BLACKBERRY SPONGE. (See page 572.) 




CO^rPOTE OF STUFFED PEARS WITH RICE. (See page 571.) 




it^, ,. 



PYRAMID OP PEACHES. (See page 572.) 



COMPOTE OF BANANAS ' 573 

and sugared border mould, set on a heavy folded paper, in a 
dish of hot water in the oven about twenty minutes. Un- 
mould on a serving-dish. Decorate the top with candied 
cherries and rounds cut from angelica. Cook a cup of sugar 
and a teaspoonful of cornstarch, sifted together, ten minutes 
in a pint of water; add the juice of a lemon and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Pour the sauce over six bananas, peeled 
and cut in> slices; let stand a moment, then drain and dispose 
within the rice. Serve with the sauce reheated and in a dish 
apart. 

PEACH-AND-RICE MERINGUE 

Prepare a rice croquette mixture. (See page 335.) Make a 
border of rice on a serving-dish that will stand the heat of the 
oven. Surround this with halves of peaches, fresh or canned, 
with skins removed; inside the border dispose sliced peaches 
and rice in layers, sprinkling the peaches with sugar and givirg 
the whole a dome shape . Cover with meringue ( see page 555),* 
dust with sugar, and set in a slow oven about ten minutes. 

CHERRIES WITH CRUSTS 

Cut rings from slices of brioche, or bread, half an inch thick; 
soak these in egg yolk, beaten and diluted with milk or cream 
and mixed with sugar and a grating of orange peel. Egg and 
crumb, using macaroon crumbs and, lastly, bread-crumbs, and 
saut^ in clarified butter; mask with marmalade and sprinkle 
with chopped almonds. Dress crown shaped, one overlapping 
another, with stewed cherries in the centre. Thicken the 
cherry syrup with cornstarch or arrowroot for a sauce. 

COMPOTE OF BANANAS 

Remove the peel and threads from six very ripe bananas; 
let stand covered with boiling water a few seconds, then drain 
and coat each with orange syrup ; pile in the form of a pyra- 
mid; pour the rest of the syrup over them and sprinkle with 
chopped pistachio nuts or candied cherries. Serve as a des- 
sert or an entree. For the syrup, boil one cup of orange juice 
and pulp and the juice of half a lemon with one cup of sugar 
five or six minutes. The syrup should be rather thick. 



574 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FRIED BANANAS, CHERRY SAUCE 

Cut bananas lengthwise into halves, roll them in finely pul- 
verized macaroons and then in flour, and fry in deep fat or 
oil until lightly colored; drain on soft paper, brush oyer with 
apricot marmalade, and dredge with shredded pistachio nuts. 
Serve with a syrup made of one cup of sugar and one cup of 
water boiled together five minutes and mixed with half a cup 
of currant jelly; when the jelly is melted, add a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice and strain over half a cup of preserved cherries. 
Serve as an entree. 

BAKED BANANAS 

Pull down a section of banana skin and loosen the pulp from 
the rest of the skin ; remove all coarse threads and replace the 
fruit in its original position in the skin; bake half a dozen 
bananas, so prepared, in a hot oven, until the skin is blackened 
and the pulp is softened. Take the pulp from the skins with- 
out injury to shape and dispose on a serving-dish in half-circles ; 
brush over with half-melted currant jelly, or a hot sauce, and 
sprinkle with fine-chopped pistachio nuts. Serve with a bowl 
of sauce apart. Lempn, wine or Richelieu sauce is appropriate 
with this dish. 

BAKED BANANAS (PORTO RICO) 

Select rather green bananas: put them entire into hot ashes, 
or a very hot oven, and bake until the skins burst open. 
Serve at once, in a folded napkin, with butter. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Cook one pint of cranberries with one pint of boiling water 
five minute;s after boiling begins (closely, covered), strain* 
add a cup of sugar and let boil once. Skim and set aside to 
cool. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE, NO. a 

Use one-half as much sugar, by measure, as cranberries and 
one-half as much water as sugar. Cover and cook ten minutes 
— long cooking makes the sauce bitter — then skim and cool. 




RASPBERRIES WITH RICE CROQUETTES. (See page 572.) 




PEACH AND RICE MERINGUE, (See page 573.) 




CHERRIES WITH CRUSTS. (See page 573.) 



BAKED RHUBARB 575 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Cook one quart of cranberries in a cup of water over a hot 
fire about five minutes, or until the berries burst. With a 
wooden pestle press the pulp through a coarse sieve, add a pint 
of sugar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved, then pour into 
cups to cool. The sauce will not jelly if boiled after the sugar 
is added. 

' STEWED FIGS 

Whole, unpressed figs in a basket or bag are the best; the 
price varies with the quality. The skin of the better variety 
of figs is glossy, silky, and very tender. Such figs require but 
little cooking. Wash the figs thoroughly, cover with boiling 
water, and let cook until the skin is tender, adding boiling 
water if needed. When about done a little sugar may be 
added. Let the syrup cook until thickened a little. Serve hot 
or cold with the breakfast cereal, or cold with plain, whipped, 
or Devonshire cream, as a dessert. For a more elaborate 
dessert, make an opening in the side of each fig and insert a- 
teaspoonful of chopped nuts, or nuts and cherries, press in 
shape and cook without disturbance. 

STUFFED DATES WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Remove the seeds from choice dates and fill the vacant 
spaces with slices of English walnut, or pecan nut meats, or 
halves of blanched almonds, and press into the original shape. 
Stew until tender in a little hot water, adding, at the last, 
sugar and lemon juice. Whip a cup of double cream and a cup 
of milk with a whip churn and remove the froth. Drain and 
chill the froth and serve the dates in a circle around this. 
BAKED RHUBARB (JULIA D. CHANDLER) 

Rinse quickly, wipe clean, and remove skin or shreds from 
larger stalks. Have ready an earthen or agate dish with 
plate to fit the top as a cover. Cut the stalks into this, in 
short lengths, scattering sugar over in layers, as one would for 
apple or other fruits, but not to excess. Add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of water, "to start the steam, " cover and set in 



576 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the oven. In a short time the rhubarb will be tender, the 
syrup pink-colored. A bit of white ginger root or orange 
peel may be added while baking. Whole figs, dates or raisins, 
previously boiled in hot water, may be put into the baking- 
dish in layers with uncooked rhubarb and cooked until the 
rhubarb is tender. A sprinkling of sugar is needed upon the 
layers of rhubarb. 

GRAPE JUICE 

Weigh the grapes, and for each ten pounds use three pounds 
of sugar. Pick the grapes from the stems, put in an agate or 
porcelain kettle with about five pints of water to a peck of 
grapes. Cover and bring slowly to the boiling point, stirring 
occasionally, and when boiling hot throughout turn into a 
heavy bag and let drain ; when cool press out all the juice re- 
maining, add the sugar, heat to the boiling point, skim, and 
store in fruit jars as in canning fruit. The sugar may be 
omitted. Other fruit juices, as strawberry, raspberry, etc., 
may be prepared in the same way; these are useful for ices, 
punch, etc. 

COMPOTE OF CHESTNUTS 

40 large imported chestnuts. 1-4 a vanilla bean, or 

Syrup to cover, registering 16° on 1-2 the yellow rind of a lemon 
the gauge. or orange. 

Put the blanched chestnuts on the bottom of a large sauce- 
pan, cover with the syrup, add the bean or the rind and let 
simmer twenty minutes or until tender, then drain ; strain the 
syrup and reduce it to 30" on the gauge, then pour it over the 
chestnuts and dispose in a serving-dish. The chestnuts keep 
their shape better if used fresh. After blanching, if the 
chestnuts are old and dry, let soak in lemon juice a few hours 
before cooking. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Salted almonds are served at luncheon and dinner, and are 
eaten at any time during these meals as inclination dictates. 
To blanch, put the nuts over the fire in boiling water, let cook 
a few moments, drain, and cover with cold water, when the 
skins can be easily removed. English walnuts need longer 



SALTED ALMONDS 577 

cooking, and the layers of skin will have to be removed with a 
small penknife. When blanched, put the nuts into a pan 
with a little melted butter and set them in a moderate oven. 
Stir frequently so they will brown evenly on all sides. Sprinkle 
with salt while hot. 

SALTED ALMONDS, NO. z 

Fry the blanched nuts, a few at a time, in a small saucepan of 
olive oil to a delicate brown, stirring the almonds meanwhile ; 
remove with a skimmer, drain on soft paper and sprinkle with 
salt. Pecan or English walnut meats, unbl'anched, or peanuts, 
skins removed, are salted and served as almonds. 

SALTED ALMONDS, NO. 3. (MASSACHUSETTS 
CONFECTIONER) 

Blanch two cups of almonds and boil eight minutes in water 
with a cup of salt. Dry and saut6 quickly in four tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. Almonds, prepared by this recipe, will not be- 
come rancid and are not covered with salt crystals. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 



The Preservation of Fruit 

"Here is fruit for an epicure meet, 
Canned and pickled and smothered in sweet; 
The wealth of summer's mellow prime, 
To cheer the dearth of winter's rime." — ^J. M. L. 



SYNOPSIS 



Time to preserve fruit. 



"Preserves," 
Marmalades, 
Butters, 
Jellies. 



, „, J. Heavy solution of sugar. 

h. Means of pres- ! -, , . , „ ^ _ 

. ■) Exclusion of all germs. Canning. 

I Strong acids. Pickling. 

Recipes. 

Instinctively, as it were, in time of plenty we are inclined 
to lay aside something for use in time of need. This is par- 
ticularly true when one has a bountiful supply of fruit, which, 
in any form, is a welcome addition to the dietary, and which, 
unless preserved in some manner, soon becomes worthless. 

There is said to be one supreme moment when a peach is in 
perfect condition for eating. It is much the same with all 
fruit. There is a time when it is at its best; but, passing that, 
it is unsatisfactory either for "putting up" or for eating raw. 
The first step, then, in the process of preserving fruit is to se- 
cure fruit that is uniform in ripeness and at the height of its 
flavor. Thus selected, the fruit should be so preserved as to 
retain this flavor, and, when admissible, its shape. The ease 
with which this may be done and the wholesomeness of the 
finished product are also worthy of attention. 

Long before people had any knowledge of microbes, it was 
discovered that fruit could be readily kept, and almost in- 
definitely, in a heavy solution of sugar, or in a strong acid, 

578 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 579 

like vinegar. Hence came pickles of various kinds, and the 
compositions, pound for pound, of sugar and fruit, called by 
our grandmothers jam, marmalade, jelly, and " preserves. " 

Preserves, though a general term, is more particularly ap- 
plied to sweets made of whole fruit, or large pieces of fruit, 
kept as whole as possible, while marmalades, jams and butters 
are made of fruit fine-divided or crushed, and jellies of fruit 
juices only. Fruit " put up " in these ways owes its preserva- 
tion to the fact that the ubiquitous microbe, whose primal 
mission is to reduce everything earthly to its " lowest terms, " 
cafmot thrive and multiply in a thick solution of sugar. On 
this account, though the usual sanitary ways of cooking should 
always be employed, care in securing absolute freedom from 
all bacteria is not so imperative as it is when ,the fruit is put 
up without sugar, or in a light syrup. In the latter cases 
the microbes that flourish upon the outside of the fruit, and in 
water and air, must be destroyed by heat at the boiling point, 
or by heat at lower temperature applied for a short time on 
several occasions, else the fruit is liable "to spoil." A dry, 
sunny day is preferable for preserving fruit, as for all cooking 

of sugar. 

UTENSILS 

Among the utensils that are the most necessary for use in 
preserving fruit are scales, measuring-cups, porcelain or 
agateware saucepans, earthern or agateware bowls, silver, 
agate or wooden spoons, a fruit press, an agate colander, small 
dipper and funnel, jars with new rubbers and perfect covers, 
glasses for jelly, jam, etc., bottles for catsups and sauces, 
and jelly bags of felt, loosely woven flannel, or doubled cheese- 
cloth. It is needless to add that each of these, if not abso- 
lutely new, should be in an immaculate condition. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Select fruit of uniform ripeness and free from bruises and 
other blemishes. Put berries, -cherries, currants and othei 
small fruits, freed of hulls, a few at a time, in a colander stand- 
ing in a pan of cold water. The water should just cover the 
fruit a-nd should be changed, perhaps, several times. Then 



s8o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

turn the fruit onto a cheesecloth to drain. Scald plums, to 
remove the skins, or, if these are to be retained, wipe outside j 
and prick in several places, to avoid bursting. Peaches, ^ 
pears and similar fruit sliouM be neatly pared with a silver 
knife, then nabbed over with the cut side of a lemon, or kept 
covered in cold water, until the moment of cooking (to avoid 
discoloration). These latter fruits are often cut in halves, and , 
freed froim cores or atones^ 

The stems of peais: carefully scraped are often retained. 
Tq insure the retention of flavor,, quick cooking is essential; 
and but a small quantity should be cooked at a time. 

GENERAL RULE FOR PRESERVES 

Take equal weights of prepared fruit and sugar. To each 
pxaund oi sugar add half a pound (one cup) of water and 
heat tO' boiling point. Skim, add the prepared fruit with a 
few kernels from tJae stones and cook until the fruit is trans- 
parent.. Lemon juice is an agreeable addition to either peach 
or pear preserve.. Three-fourths a pound of sugar to a pound 
of fruit is. often used for peaches, pears and strawberries.. 
Often in case of fruit whose shape is liable to be injured by 
long cooking, the fruit is set aside in the boiling syrup three 
days in succession,, the syrup on the second and third mornings 
being drained from the fruit, reheated, and poured over it. 

MARMALADE, JAM AND BUTTERS 

These are made of the pulp and juice of fruit. For the 
first two, apples and quinces are cooked in water and sifted, 
small fruits are mashed and, when the seeds are objectionable, 
also sifted. An equal weight of sugar is used, but it is added 
by degrees, to keep the fruit soft. Frequent stirring is 
necessary, to avoid burning. In making butters, the pre- 
pared fruit is cooked slowly wi-th a very little water. In the ■ 
meantime it is stirred with a peculiar shaped, perforated, 
wooden utensil, the fruit being broken up by passing through 
the perforations during the stirring. Sugar, either pound for 
pound or three-fourths of a pound to a pound of fruit, and 
spices are added during the cooking, the larger portion during 



CANNING 581 

the latter part of the process, to lessen the liabiliity to bum. 
Apples and peaches are the fruits most often made into butters ; 
the cooking is a longer process than that for jams, etc. 

JELLIES 

The various processes of jelly-making do not differ materially. 
Fruit juice is boiled with sugar to the jellying state. The 
shorter the time of boiling, the more pronounced wiU be the 
fruit flavor. Juice from currants may be extracted by pres- 
sure, without the use of heat, or, as in case of other fruits, the 
currants may be cooked enough to release the juice without 
pressure. To extract the juice, a little water is added to the 
fruit and the whole is cooked steadily, but Slowly, over the fire 
until the juice flows freely; or the fruit is cooked, without the 
addition of water, in a jar standing in a vessel of hot water, 
until it is soft enough to mash. In any case, pass the juice 
twice through a jelly bag wrung out of hot water, without 
pressure, then heat to the boiling point, skim and bail five or 
more minutes, then add an equal weight of granulated sugar 
that has been heated in the oven without browning. Let boil 
until a little will jelly slightly on a cold dish. Less than five 
minutes' boiling will usually sufi&oe, though sometimes fifteen 
minutes is required ; the time depends upon the quantity of 
water present in the fruit juice. If Jelly with less sugar be 
desired, reduce the juice by boiling some minutes before add- 
ing half or three-fourths the weight of sugar. Turn the jelly 
as soon as cooked into glasses, first rinsed in hot water and 
placed on a folded cloth wrung out of hot water. When cold, 
cover with melted paraffine, of paper dipped in alcohol, then 
with a tin cover or a second piece of paper. Store in a dry. 

place. 

CANNING 

The several ways of canning fruit are variations only of two 
original methods — i. e., by cooking the fruit in an open sauce- 
pan and transferring to the jars, and by cooking the fruit in 
the same jars in which it is to be set aside. In either case, 
the fruit is but slightly cooked, and no more sugar is used 
than would be palatable if the fruit were to be eaten fresh. 



S83 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

This quantity is about one cup of sugar and one cup of water 
to a quart of juicy fruit. The water is increased to two cups for 
dry fruits like pears and apples. 

In canning, as the syrup is not of sufficient strength to 
prevent the growth of microbes, no pains must be spared to in- 
sure complete sterilization. While the fruit is cooking in the 
syrup in the saucepan, let the jars stand, filled with boiling 
water, on a folded cloth, saturated with boiling water, upon the 
back of- the range. When the. fruit is cooked, pour the water 
from the jars and fill at once to overflow with fruit and syrup. 
Adjust new rubbers and quickly screw on the lids, which have 
been standing, meanwhile, in boiling water. A wide-mouthed 
funnel with spreading top is convenient in filling the jars. 

When the fruit is cooked in the jars — and this method 
conserves the flavor more perfectly — fill the jars with the 
prepared fruit. Set them on a heavy fold of cloth, paper, 
or on a perforated board, in a saucepan half filled with warm 
water. Fill to overflow with hot syrup, adjust new rubbers, 
and screw down the covers lightly. Bring the water in the 
saucepan to "the boiling point and let boil from five to ten 
minutes. If necessary, add more hot syrup to fill the jars 
to overflow, or use one jar to fill the others. Screw the covers 
on tightly, let cool in water, tighten the covers once more, 
and set aside in a cool, dark closet. Patent canners may 
be found at kitchen furnishing stores that simplify canning 
by the latter method. These are of much assistance in can- 
ning fruit and are invaluable in canning vegetables. Vege- 
tables, gathered at the proper time, cooked sufficiently and 
with care, will keep indefinitely and without the use of any 
"preservative." 

PRESERVED BERRIES 

For each pound of preserved berries use ten ounces of 
sugar and one-fourth a cup of water. Cook the sugar and 
water to the soft-ball stage or to a thick syrup ; let stand a 
few moments to cool a little, then pour onto the berries in 
fruit jars. Fill the jars to the top, adjust the rubbers and 
screw the covers down loosely. Set the jars on perforated 
boards, folds of paper or cloth in a saucepan, and surround 



QUINCE AND SWEET APPLE PRESERVES 583 

with water at about the same temperature as the jars. Bring 
slowly to the boiling point and let boil ten minutes. Cool 
slowly in the water, tighten the covers and set aside in a 
dry, cool place. This confection is richer than ordinary 
canned fruit, yet it is not so rich as the traditional preserves. 
By this formula the shape and color "of the berries are well 
preserved. 

GRAPE PRESERVES 

Weigh the grapes and allow three-fourths a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit. Rinse the bunches of grapes in 
cold water, drain and squeeze the pulp from the skin of each 
grape. Heat the pulp gradually and cook until the seeds 
come out easily. Ten or fifteen minutes will be required. 
Pass through a sieve just fine enough to keep back the seeds. 
Cook the skins and the pulp ten minutes, then add the sugar 
and continue cooking until the liquid thickens slightly. 
Store in earthen or glass jars. 

PEARS PRESERVED WITH GINGER 

Pare, quarter and core eight pounds of pears; cut or break 
one-fourth a pound of ginger root into pieces. Grate the 
yellow rind of two or three lemons. Put the pears, ginger 
and grated lemon into a saucepan, in layers, with eight pounds 
of sugar; add a cup of water — two if the pears are dry. Let 
heat very slowly and cook until the pears look clear; add 
the juice of six lemons, when the fruit is rather more than 
half cooked. Two hours of cooking will often be needed. 

QUINCE AND SWEET APPLE PRESERVES 

Pare the quinces, cut in quarters and remove the cores 
and woody portion beneath. Cook the cores and slcins with 
water to cover about an h6ur, then strain off this water and 
in it cook the quinces and half as many sweet apples, also 
pared and cored, until each is tender or can be pierced with 
a straw. Let the fruit stand in cold water after preparation 
until time of cooking. Cook only as much fruit at a time 
as can be covered by the liquid. Remove with a skimmer 
when tender. When all the fruit has been cooked, add to 



S84 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the liquid a pound of sugar for each pound of quince and 
half a pound of sugar for each pound of apple ; boil five min- 
utes, skim and add the fruit and let cook slowy until of the 
desired color; long cooking gives a dark-tinted preserve. 
Drain on a platter and when all are cooked and drained, 
store in jars, straining the hot syrup over the fruit. Use 
only the liquid from the cores and skins that drains through 
the cloth. By pressure extract the gelatinous substance and 
use this with any small pieces of quince in making marmalade. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES OR SUNSHINE 
STRAWBERRIES (OHIO) 

Select and hull three pounds of perfect strawberries of 
large size. Cook three pounds of fine granulated sugar and 
two cups of boiling water until a light thread is formed. 
Do not stir the sugar after it melts and begins to boil. Put 
in the berries and cook fifteen or twenty minutes after they 
begin to boil. Pour the contents onto, a large platter and 
set in the sun to stand two days, or until the syrup is very 
thick. Store in tumblers, jars or bottles, cover the tops with 
parafiine, and set aside in a cool, dry closet. Other fruit may 
be preserved in the same manner. When cherries are used, 
stone them before weighing the fruit. In making the syrup, 
use the juice from the cherries instead of water. If one 
has a larger quantity of juice than is needed for the preserve, 
can it for sherbets, sauces, etc. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES, NO. 2 

Select and set aside the largest and most perfect berries- 
Mash the others and boil fifteen minutes without water, 
then strain through a jelly bag. Allow a pound of sugar tc 
a quart of juice. Make a syrup with a pint of water to each 
two pounds of sugar and skim thoroughly. "When the scum 
ceases to rise, pour in the juice of the berries and boil (from 
five to fifteen minutes) to the soft-ball degree. Pour the syrup 
into glass jars and, lifting the berries with a spoon, put in as 
many as the syrup will cover without crowding. When cold 
seal with parafiine. 



VANILLA CHESTNUT PRESERVE 585 

CITRON, MELON OR WATERMELON-RIND PRESERVES 

Remove the green outer rind of the melon and cut the 
remainder into pieces of small size. Citron may be cut in 
slices and the slices, after the seeds are removed, stamped 
out into pleasing shapes. Cover with cold water and add a 
tablespoonful of salt for each quart of water. Let stand over 
night in the salted water, then drain and rinse thoroughly. 
Cook in boiling water until transparent. Drain carefully. 
For each pound of rind make a syrup of three-fourths a 
pound of sugar and half a cup of water and skim thoroughly ; 
then add the melon and for each pound half an otmce of 
ginger root and a lemon, cut in slices. Cook about twenty 
minutes, or until the pieces of melon look rich and full. Skim 
from the syrup into jars; boil the syrup until rich and thick 
and pour over the fruit in the jars. 

VANILLA CHESTNUT PRESERVE 

With a sharp-pointed knife slit each chestnut shell across 
one side. Cook a minute in boiling water, drain well and let 
dry. Add a teaspoonful of butter for each pint of njits and 
stir and shake over the fire three or four minutes. Then re- 
move the shell and skin together. Keep the nuts covered 
with a thick cloth, as they shell better when hot. Soak the 
shelled nuts in cold water to cover, to which is added a little 
citric acid, or a larger quantity of lemon juice, seven or 
eight hours.' This is to harden the nuts, that they may not 
break in pieces while cooking. A quantity of acid about 
equal to the size of a shelled nut may be used with each pint 
of shelled nuts. The acid is harmless; but, if more is used, 
the taste will be noticeable. 

T'he nuts are in the best condition for preserving 
in syrup or as glac^ nuts when they are first gathered in 
the fall. They soon dry and then are likely to fall in pieces 
while cooking. After soaking the chestnuts in the acid water, 
drain and cover with plenty of boiling water. Let boil, then 
cook about two hours with the water barely quivering at 



S86 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

one side of the pan. When sufficiently tender, drain and 
cover with a syrup made of sugar and water, each equal in 
weight to the weight of the nuts, and a piece of a vanilla 
bean. Keep hot without boiling two hours. Drain off half 
the syrup, reduce about one-half, pour over the nuts and 
keep hot one hour. Drain off all- syrup, strain and reduce a 
little, and, when cold, pour over the nuts. If the syrup sugars 
when cold, add a little hot water, let boil and use. Store in 
tightly closed jars as in canning. 

STRAWBERRY-TOMATO PRESERVE 

Cook the yellow rind of a lemon and the seeded pulp, cut 
in slices, and a bit of ginger root in boiling water, until the 
water is well flavored with lemon and ginger, then strain. 
For each pound of tomatoes, removed from the husks, take 
half a pound of sugar and a cup of the flavored water; heat 
to the boiling point and skim, then add the tomatoes, cook 
until scalded thoroughly, then skim into jars. Boil the syrup 
until thick, adding to it a few slices of lemon, selecting lemons 
that are not bitter, and with it fill the jars to overflowing. 
Cover securely. 

BOTTLED CURRANTS 

Mix together fine granulated sugar and dry currants, 
■freed from the stems, in the proportion of one pound and a 
fourth of sugar to one pound of fruit. With a wooden mallet 
crush the currants until every fruit is broken. Fill preserv- 
ing jars to overflowing with mixture. Adjust 'the rubbers 
and turn the covers down tightly. These being uncooked 
have the flavor of fresh currants. 

RHUBARB-AND-FIG PRESERVE 

6 pounds of rhubarb, cut in 3 lemons, juice and grated rind, 

short lengths. i pound of candied orange peel. 

I pound of figs, cut in pieces. $ pounds of sugar. 

Put the fruit and sugar into a preserving kettle, in layers 
and let stand over night. Cook slowly about one hour. 



PINEAPPLE MARMALADE 587 

STRAWBERRY OR BLACKBERRY JAM (ENGLISH RECIPE) 

Allow three-fourths a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. 
Put the fruit over the fire and sprinkle on a little sugar; as 
the heat draws out the juice, keep adding sugar, and when 
all is dissolved, heat to the boiling point and let boil twenty 
minutes, stirring carefully not to break the strawberries. If 
the jam does not "set" at the end of twenty minutes, cook 
longer. 

RHUBARB JAM (SCOTLAND) 

Select the red stalks of rhubarb, as it makes the richest 
colored preserve. Take off the strings of skin, but keep as 
much of the red underneath as possible. Cut the stalks into 
half-inch slices, cover with an equal weight of sugar and let 
stand over night. For each three or four pounds of fruit 
add the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Let boil half an 
hour after it comes to the boiling point, then let simmer 
very gently another half an hour. An ounce of blanched 
sweet almonds, sliced thin, may be added. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE 

I qu&rt of bright red rhubarb Yellow rind and ' pulp of six 

stalks. oranges. 

I 1-2 pounds of sugar. 

Boil the ingredients together very slowly until well re- 
duced. The rind of the orange may be grated or cut into thin 
shavings and boiled tender before it is added to the other 

ingredients. 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE 

Pare and remove the eyes from the pineapples, then grate 
them. Weigh the pulp and put two-thirds of its weight of 
sugar in the oven to heat. Cook the pineapple in an uncovered 
saucepan until reduced somewhat, then add the juice of a 
lemon for each pound of fruit; add also the hot sugar and 
boil five or six minutes Store in glasses covered securely. 
The yellow rind of the lemons, grated or cut into shavings, 
is for many a pleasing addition. 



588 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

APPLE, PEACH OR QUINCE MARMALADE 

Pare and core tbe apples and cook until tender with just 
water enough to keep from burning. Sift through a very 
fine sieve. Return to the fire with a very scant pound of 
sugar and the juice and grated rind of a lemon for each pound 
of pulp. Cook, stirring with a .wooden spoon, until all the 
water is evaporated, or until the marmalade does not '" spread 
out " when taken up on a saucer. Pour into hot glasses. Peach 
and quince marma,lade are made in the same way. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Use one lemon to each five oranges and three-fourths 
the weight of the prepared fruit in sugar. Wipe .the fruit 
carefully, then take off the peel in quarters, and remove as 
much of the white, bitter portion of the rind as is not de- 
sired; cut the rest of the peel into shreds. Cut the pulp in 
halves and with a glass lemon squeezer or a spoon renlove 
the juice and pulp, discarding seeds, tough membranes and 
white, pithy portions. Stir the sugar into the juice, pulp, 
and shreds of yellow rind, and let cook until very thick, but 
not firm like jelly. If the thin-skinned Tangerine or Messina 
oranges be used, the marmalade is less liable to be bitter. 
The rind will be more tender if simmered in water to cover 
before the addition of the sugar. Weigh this water with the 
rind, juice, etc., in determining the quantity of sugar re- 
quired. Gelatine in small quantity, about an ounce to two 
quarts, is often added to orange marmalade, to keep the rind 
from settling to the bottom of the glass. 

ORANGE-AND-APPLE MARMALADE 

Cook apples, sliced without paring, in water to cover until 
tender, amd drain through a jelly bag, pressing out all the 
juice; add to this an equal weight of sugar and cook until 
the liquid drops in beads; now add an equal or less quantity 
of orange pulp and yellow orange peel, shredded and cooked 
tender, and cook as before. Store as any marmalade. 



CANNED STRAWBERRIES 589 

JELLIES 

CURRANT JELLY, NO. i 

Do not gather the currants just after a rain ; extract the 
juice by pressing a few at a time in a clioth, then let drain 
through a cloth without pressure. Let as many cups of sugar 
as there are of juice heat in the oven without discoloring 
(stir often), then, when the j.uice boils, add the sugar and let 
boil a few minutes or until a little will jelly on a cold plate. 
Cook but a small portion of juice at a time. 

CURRANT JELLY, NO. 2; ALSO GRAPE, BLACKBERRY, 
PLUM, APPLE, ETC. 

Cut apples in quarters withou-t removing skios or cores 
■ unless defective ; cut plums in halves, and pull graphs and 
currants from the stems. A little water needs be added to 
apples, crab apples, quinces, and other dry fruit. Avoid the 
use of water with currants, grapes, etc., let cook until the 
pulp is softened, then strain without pressure. Press the 
bag to get the last of the juice and with this make a second 
quality of jelly. Jelly made of dry fruits will harden after 
it is set aside in the glasses, and if cooked to the consist- 
ency usually desired in currant and similar jellies will be 
too firm and solid in a few weeks. Equal quantities by weight 
of barberries and apples make a delicious jelly. Green goose- 
berries or green plunas give a delicately tinted jelly. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES 

Weigh the berries after hulling and take one-fourth the 
weight of the berries in sugar. Wash a few at a time by 
letting cold water run through them held in a colander; 
take one-fourth the weight of the berries, selecting the in- 
ferior ones, and pass through a potato ricer or crush with 
a pestle ; strain through a firm piece of cheesecloth, doubled, 
pressing out the juice, measure the juice, and to it ad'd' half 
the quantity of water and the sugar; let boil twenty min- 
utes, s-kimnaing as needed. Put the rest of the berries- in fruit 
cans, the cans into a saucepan on a perforated board that 



S90 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

rests on the bottom of the saucepan, or onto several folds 
of heavy paper cut to fit into the saucepan; pour in the 
prepared strawberry syrup to fill the jars; put the rubber 
bands in place and the covers on loosely ; pour in warm water 
to fill the saucepan rather more than half full, cover and 
let heat to the boiling point; let boil half an hour, then fill 
the jars to overflowing if not already full, using the contents 
of one of the jars for the purpose; turn the covers down 
tightly and set aside to cool. Turn the covers down a second 
time after the cans have become cold, then set aside in a 
cool, dry closet. If any of the jars are to be filled from an- ' 
other jar, let the covers stand in hot water during the pro- 
cess. If the jars are filled to the top, turn the covers down 
without removing them. With a patent tin or copper ' ' canner " 
the process is much simplified. 

For canning fruit and tomatoes, see page 581. For vege- 
tables a canner should be purchased; the length of time 
required to cook the vegetables varies with the make of the 
canner. The pressure of steam generated in cooking is a 
factor in the time required for the process. 

PICKLES, CATSUPS, ETC. 

Pickles are not classed as hygienic relishes, but there are 
pickles and pickles. Cucumber pickles are sometimes colored 
green with sulphate of copper, which is a deadly poison. 
They are tinted green, also, by scalding in a brass or copper 
kettle ; but while pickles so colored might not cause illness, no 
one who pays any regard to health would venture to eat them. 
Cucumbers scalded in a porcelain kettle, lined and covered with 
cabbage leaves, are also said to assume a green color. Scald- 
ing or parboiling renders pickles soft and tender; by limiting 
this they are left crisp. A piece of alum, the size of a small 
pecan nut, dissolved in the vinegar that is to be poured over 
one gallon of cucumbers, will make them more crisp ; but alum 
even in small quantities cannot be called wholesome. 

GREEN SOUR PICKLES 

Use a cup of salt to a peck of whole cucumbers or green 
tomatoes, sliced. Put in a stone jar, in layers, with the salt, 



INDIAN HCKLE 591 

cover -with cold water and let stand over night. In the morning 
drain ofE the brine, scald and again pour over the vegetables. 
Let stand over night, then drain. Scald enough vinegar to 
cover the pickles, with four green or red peppers, two table- 
spoonfuls of whole cloves, and a piece of horseradish. Add 
the pickles and when scalded store in jars. 

SWEET PICKLED PEARS, PEACHES AND MELON-RINDS 

7 pounds of fruit. i cup of water. 

S pounds of sugar. 2-3 a cup of stick cinnamqn. 

I pint of vinegar. 1-3 a cup of whole cloves. 

Remove the skins and blossom ends of pears (retain the 
skins of sickle pears), retaining the stems. Scald peaches, to 
remove the skins, or pare them. Watermelon rind should not 
be too thin; cut away all pink pulp and the thin green rind 
on the outside; remove the thin outside rind of muskmelons. 
Keep peaches and pears whole, and cut the rind in small 
pieces (squares, rotinds, diamonds, etc.). Make a syrup of 
the sugar, vinegar and. water; skim and add the spices. Cook 
pears until tender in the syrup, then place in fruit jars and 
pour the syrup, reduced by cooking, over them. Scald peaches 
in the syrup on three consecutive mornings; on the third 
morning put the peaches in jars, boil the syrup to the con- 
sistency of molasses, and pour it over them. Put the spices 
into the jars with the fruit. Cook muskmelon as pears; water- 
melon rind needs be cooked in water until tender and then 
finished as the peaches or pears. 

INDIAN PICKLE OR PICKLES WITH MUSTARD 

Use a mixture of small cucumbers, or large ones cut in pieces, 
green tomatoes shced, cauhflower broken into flowerets, 
nasturtium seeds, string beans, green grapes and button 
onions. Sprinkle with salt and cover with water. Use about 
one pint of salt to six quarts of water. Let stand over night 
in the brine, then drain off the brine, scald and pour it over 
the vegetables; let stand in it until cool, then drain again. 
For every gallon of vinegar needed to cover the pickles, take 
one-fourth a pound, each, of curry-powder and mustard- 



502 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

compound (mustard of comm.erce)„ half a teaspoonful of 
cayenne, one-fourth a pound of salt and one pound of brown 
sugar. Heat the salt and sugar with the vinegar, mix the 
curry-powder, mustard and cayenne with a little of the hot 
vinegar, and when smooth and well-diluted add to the rest 
of the vinegar ; pour this scalding hot over the vegetables. 

The vegetables may be scalded in vinegar, instead of in 
the brine. This vinegar should, however, be thrown away 
and a second supply be scalded with the seasonings, for 
keeping the pickles. If a thicker consistency be desired in 
the vinegar, a cup of flour may be added with the curry- 
powder and mustard. 

GREEN TOMATO SWEET PICKLES 

Remove a thin slice from the blossom ends and the hard 
portion around the stems of one peck of tomatoes. Slice the 
tomatoes, sprinkle with one cup of salt and set aside over 
night. In the morning, drain and boil fifteen minutes in two 
quarts of boiling water and one quart of vinegar; then drain 
again. Cook, together, ten minutes, one' gallon of cider vinegar, 
two pounds of sugar (less sugar may be used, if desired), 
three red pepper pods cut in strips, one tablespoonful of 
white mustard seed, whole, and one cup of cinnamon bark, 
ginger root, mace, and whole cloves, mixed in such propor- 
tions as are desired. Add the tomato and simmer gently 
nearly one hour, stirring occasionally. Remove the spices, 
which, with the exception of the red pepper that is to be left 
in the pickle, have been tied in a muslin bag, and store in fruit 
jars. Let the syrup completely cover the slices of tomato. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER 

Separate the heads of the cauliflower, steamed as usual, 
into flowerets and put them in glass jars. Fill the jars with 
the following pickle : Mix half a pound of dry mustard with 
half an ounce of tumeric, dilute to a thin paste with vinegar 
and stir into two quarts of scalding hot vinegar; stir umtil 
the liquid begins to thicken, then add a cup of sugar, half 
a cup of olive oil and one ounce of mustard seed and simmei 
five minutes. 



OLIVE OIL PICKLES 593 

FRENCH PICKLE. (MRS. H. O. HERSHAM) 

Chop fine half a peck of green tomatoes, one head of cab- 
bage, fifteen white onions an4 ten large greon cucumbers. 
Put a layer of vegetables into a porcelain dish and sprinkle 
with salt; continue the layers of vegetables and salt until 
all are used; let stand over night, then drain, discarding the 
liquid. Heat three quarts of cider vinegar, three pounds of 
brown sugar, one-fourth a cup of tumeric, one-fourth a cup 
of black pepper seed, one ounce of celery seed, three-fourths 
a pound of mustard seed and three red peppers, chopped 
fine, to the boiling point, and pour over the vegetables. 
Let stand over night, then drain the liquid from the vege- 
tables, reheat and again pour over the vegetables; repeat 
this process the third morning, then, when the mixture becomes 
cold, stir into it one-fourth a pound of ground mustard and 
one teaspoonful of curry powder, mixed with one cup of 
olive oil and one quart of vinegar. 

SWEET. PICKLED LIMES- (MRS. RUSSELL, BOSTON) 

I gallon of salted limes. 1-4 a pound of stick cinnamon. 

1 gallon of vinegar. 1-2 a pound of allspice. 
3 pounds of sugar. 3 ounces of cloves. 

Boil the limes in water till very tender and, to get rid of 
the salt, drain and pierce. 

Boil vinegar and spices together and pour over the Jimes. 
Keep hot for twenty minutes, but do not boil the vinegar 
again. 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES 

Cover four quarts of sliced cucumbers with boiling hot 
water and when cold drain and cover with a weak brine. 
Let stand over night. In the morning drain. Then add: 

1-2 a teaspoonful of cloves. 1-2 a cup of olive oil. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of allspice. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of celery seed. i-a a cup of mustard seed. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. i dozen of onions.^ 

Cold vinegar enough to cover thoroughly. Mix well and can. 



S94 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SMALL CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLES 

Place the cucumbers in a dish with half a cup of salt to 
two quarts of cucumbers; cover with boiling water and let 
stand over night. In the morning remove them from the 
brine, place in a granite kettle, cover with vinegar, to which 
has been added whole mustard seed, whole cloves, and cinna- 
mon, and one cup of sugar. Let come to the boiling point, 
but not boil. Put in cans or bottles and seal while hot. 

CHILI SAUCE. (CHEF SILVERBRAND) 

loo ripe tomatoes. i8 teaspoonfuls of ginger. 

24 peppers. 18 teaspoonfuls of cloves. 

18 large white onions. 18 teaspoonfuls of allspice. 

I pound of brown sugar. i gallon of -vinegar 

9 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Remove the skins from the tomatoes and chop the peppers 
and onions very fine ; add to the other ingredients, boil gently, 
stirring often, one hour. Strain and boil again; _ if not of 
sufficient consistency. Set aside in closely corked -bottles, 
or in fruit jars tightly closed. 

SPICED CURRANTS, GOOSEBERRIES, ETC. 

Melt four pounds of sugar in a pint of vinegar; add seven 
pounds of currants, one tablespoonful, each, of ground cinna- 
mon and cloves, one nutmeg, grated, and one teaspoonful 
of allspice; let boil two hours. 

GRAPE CATSUP 

Cover two quarts of ripe, wild grapes with vinegar and 
cook until soft; strain, add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful, each, of cloves and all- 
spice and one-fourth a teaspoonful of cayenne. Cook until 
thick. Store in bottles. If the vinegar be strong, use less 
vinegar and cook slowly, to avoid burning. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

Scald half a bushel of ripe tomatoes and remove the skins; 
add half a cup of salt, one pound of sugar, one tablespoonful 



MUSHROOM CATSUP 595 

of cayenne pepper, three tablespooilfuls, each, of ground 
mace and celery seed, two tablespoonfuls of ground cinna- 
mon, and two quarts of vinegar. Boil slowly until reduced 
one-half, then pass through a sieve, reheat and store in sealed 
bottles, or in tight-closed cans. A larger quantity of spice 
is desired by many. 

APPLE CHUTNEY 

12 sour apples. 1-2 a cup of currant jelly. 

I mild onion. 2 cups of sugar. 

3 peppers, one red. The juice of four lemons. 

I cup of seeded and chopped i tablespoonful of ground ginger. 

raisins. i -4 a teaspoonful of cayenne. 

I pint of cider vinegar. i tablespoonful of salt. 

Chop the apples, onion and peppers very fine; add the 
vinegar and jelly and let simmer one hour, stirring often; 
add the other ingredients and cook another hour, stirring 
constantly. Store as canned fruit. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP 

Pick over, wash and drain one peck of Coprinus comatus; 
slice and put over the fire in a saucepan with one cup of 
water. Cook, until mushrooms are soft, stirring often. Press 
through a sieve. Tc the pulp add one pint of vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, two 
tablespoonfuls of mustard, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
half a teaspoonful of mace, and half a tablespoonful of cloves. 
Cook about half an hour longer, then bottle and seal. 



CHAPTER XXV; 
Frozen Desserts 

"Ice creaoi wag not discovered; it was developed. A direct descend- 
ant of the glierbet of the Orient, it traces its pedigree back thousands 
of years. " — 'The National Baker. 

"Ajid Igaac brought forth the inilk pf the goat, cool with the 
niQuntain, and saicj to AbrahaiJJ, ' e^t and dripk for the sun is hot, 
that thou mayest be pool,' " 

No form of dessert is held in such high esteem as the frozen ; 
it is, at once, the best approved and the most palatable of 
all desserts. By tj;e presentation bf a well-prepared cream 
of good quality, one may atone for a very meagre dinner, 
while a niQuld of well-flavored fruit ice of attractive ap- 
pearance fitly forms ttie crowning piece of an elaborate dinner. 
But the dinner is only one (and probably not tbe most hygi- 
enic) occasion at which an ice may be appropriately served. 
In the summer season, icep are acceptable at any time and on 
all occasions ; and they are fittingly served, also, at meals, or 
functions of ceremony, throughout the year. The frozen 
dessert has, at least, one advantage over many others: it is 
eaten in perfection only when prepared and left to ripen 
for some hours before serving. 

In England and on the continent of Europe, any frozen 
dessert is called an ice. In this country, there is a tendency 
to restrict the meaning of the word "ices," applying it simply 
to the water ices, so called. The word, however, is here used, 
in its broader sense. 

Perhaps the following outline will give a general idea of 
the subject : — 

S96 




ORANGE SHERBET IN ORANGE SKINS. 
Garnish of whiiiped cream. (See page 614.) 




STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE GLACE. (See paye 611.) 




MOULDS FOR FROZEN DESSERTS. 
Bombe, melon and brick moulds. 
Individual basket mould and strawberry moulds. 



FREEZING 



597 



Ices. ■ 



Cream 
Ices. 



Water 
Ices. 



Frozen J Philadelphia. 

with I Neapolitan. 
stirring. 



Frozen 



( Parfait. 



^ ■{ Bisclut. 

without I ^,|. 

^. . I Mousse, 
stirring. 



Sherbet; 
Granite. 
Frappe. 
, Punch. 



Besides these, mention may be made of frozen custards, 
frozen puddings, milk sherbetSj souffles and ^ frozen fruits. 
Some idea of the magnitude of the subject can be obtained 
from the fact that there are above a hundred varieties of 
iced puddings known to French cooks, while the number 
of ice-creams and water ices is limited only by the imagina- 
tion of the one compounding them. 

The cost of the simpler forms of these desserts is not large, 
if they can be prepared at home; and the labor involved ih 
preparing them is considered great only by those who make 
them infrequently. Now that the patent freezer has reduced 
the time of free-zing to a minimum, the crushing of the ic6 
is the most objectionable feature in the operation. 

For home use nothing, as yet, has been devised by which 
the ice can be so well and easily crushed as by the use of 
the canvas bag and mallet. With the ice crushed atid de- 
posited in a large pail, and with the command of a sink 
sufficiently large to hold the freezer and pail of ice, the pack- 
ing, freezing, and moulding, when the latter is required, 
may be done quickly and without confusion or disorder. 
If the ice is to be served at the noon-day meal, it is wfell to 
cook the cream or syrup, of which it is to be made, so that 
it may be thoroughly cold before it is turned into the can 
of the freezer. 

FREEZING 

When coarse salt and ice of about the same size are mixed, 
the ^alt melts the ice to unite with it, which, in turn, dis- 



598 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

solves the salt, so that both solids are changed to liquids. 
This change requires a large amount of heat, which is ab- 
sorbed from the can of mixture placed in the ice and salt. 
By the cold thus produced the mercury will sink below zero. 
Snow is particularly good for freezing purposes, but a little 
water should be mixed with it, in order to start the melting 
process. The best ice is porous, called snow ice. Such ice, 
being filled with air cells, is more readily acted upon by the 
salt. As the melting ice and salt are colder than the mixture 
of ice and salt, it is a mistake to draw off the water as fast 
as it is formed. But, when the ice floats upon the surface 
of the water, the melting process, and consequently the 
freezing process, is at its maximum, and the water, which 
from this point begins to rise in temperature, should. now 
be drawn off and, if necessary, the mixture should be re- 
packed. 

PROPORTIONS OF ICE AND SALT 

The proportion of ice to salt depends upon the texture 
desired in the article to be frozen: the larger the proportion 
of ice, the slower will be the freezing process and the smoother 
and finer-grained will be the frozen product. Hence, in freez- 
ing creams and sherbets, which are to be firm, velvety, and 
fine-grained, one measure of salt to three of ice is used; 
while in freezing "frapp&" and "granites," which should 
be granular and coarse-grained, only two measures of ice to 
one of salt are employed. 

In repacking a frozen mixture to keep it frozen, less salt 
may be used. In packing a mousse or a parfait, which is 
unfrozen, use one measure of ice to one of salt. 

Creams freeze in a shorter time than sherbets, the syrup, 
which forms the foundation of the sherbet, retarding the 
process. We make use of this fact in adding fruits to frozen 
dishes, as in puddings, tutti-frutti, etc. If wines and liquors 
be used, the fruit is soaked for some hours, or over night; 
in the spirits ; and, as alcohol does not freeze, the saturated 
fruit is thus kept from freezing also. Where spirits are not 
desired, the fruit may be soaked in a very rich, heavy syrup. 



NEAPOLITAN CREAM ICE 599 



PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM 

This is a product of American invention, and is but little 
known abroad. In this country it is considered the choicest 
kind of ice cream. When properly made it consists entirely 
of sweetened and flavored cream, the flavor giving the spe- 
cific name to the variety. The cream, which should not be 
too rich, may be scalded or not, as it suits the individual 
taste. It will expand more in freezing, if it be not cooked, 
giving an ice of' light, fluffy texture, but of raw taste; what 
is gained in quantity is lost in quality. Cooking the cream 
obviates all danger of curdling, in case of atmospheric changes, 
■and gives a firm, close-grained, velvety ice, which cuts like 
jelly. In scalding the cream, as in all dishes where milk or 
cream is called for, use a double boiler, or a pail set into a 
kettle of hot water. The cream is scalded, when tiny bubbles 
appear around the edge of the milk close to the vessel. Dis- 
solve the sugar in the hot cream and when cold add the 
flavoring; in case an extract be used, one tablespoonful to 
each quart of cream will be needed. 

In making a fruit cream^strawberry, raspberry, peach, 
etc. — the fruit should be mashed, mixed with sugar or syrup 
and, after standing an hour, added to the cream when the 
latter is partly or wholly frozen. The quantity of -sweeten- 
ing to be used depends upon the acidity of the fruit. Straw- 
berries and peaches may be pressed through a potato ricer, 
but raspberries must be sifted through a sieve fine enough 
to keep back the seeds. If the berries or fruit be not ex- 
ceptionally fine-flavored, the juice of a lemon is re- 
quired. When cream is not plentiful, milk and , double 
cream, four parts of the former to one of the latter, 
jellied with junket tablets, or liquid rennet, give an 
article that approaches very nearly to the genuine Phila- 
delphia ice cream. 

NEAPOLITAN CREAM ICE 

This ice is universally served in England and on the con- 
tinent of Europe. It is made of cream, or rich milk, and 



6oo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

yolks of eggs in proportion from six to twelve for each quart 
of cream. One cup of sugar or syrup is allowed for each 
quart of cream and another for each dozen of yolks. Beat 
the yolks till light-colored and thick, add the sugar and 
beat again; then add to the cream in the double boilel- and 
cook as a boiled custard, till the mixture coats the spoon. 
Strain the mixture at once into a dish set in cold water; 
when it has become ice-cold, flavor and freeze. 

Sometimes starchy material, as arrowroot or cornstarch, 
is used in the place of part of the eggs ; in this case it is better 
to mix such material with a little cold cream or milk and 
cook it in the hot cream for ten or fifteen minutes before 
adding the sugar and yolks of the eggs. 

The Neapolitan method of making creams is considered 
best adapted to vanilla, coffee, chocolate, caramel, and the 
various nut creams. In Europe, fruit flavors are thought 
not to harmonize with eggs, which are an essential part of 
all their creams; but any of the fruit pulps may be added to 
a Neapolitan cream with good results. 

PARFAIT, MOUSSE AND BISCUIT GLACE 

These delicious ices are all frozen without stirring, the 
peculiar texture of each being occasioned by freezing whipped 
cream. They are always moulded, and sherbets are fre- 
quently combined with them, either as the lining of the 
mould or as a layer of filling. 

BISCUIT GLACE AND INDIVIDUAL ICES 

Biscuit glac^ are moulded in individual moulds and are 
often served covered with a meringue. Individual creams 
and sherbets alone or in combination are also served in 
paper boxes, in shells of meringue, or in baskets of nougat. 
They are also shaped in individual lead tnoulds in the form 
of fruits or flowers. As these latter are frozeti very hard 
and cannot be served in perfection without standing some 
time, after being moulded, in some sort of an ice "cave," 
also as they are usually tinted quite carefully to simulate 
some particular object, they are generally considered too 



WATER ICES 6oi 

troublesome to prepare with home conveniences. Paper- 
cases, after being filled, are set aside closely packed, in layers 
with paper between, in a receptacle closed tightly to keep out 
salt water, in ice and salt for an hour Or more. 

FROZEN PUDDING 

A frozen pudding is made of either Philadelphia or Nea- 
politan cream highly flavored, and contains many preserved 
fruits and nuts. It is usually moulded in a melon mould, 
lined with lady fingers. Both the frozen pudding and iced 
soufflds are served with a sauce, or with whipped cream, 
sweetened or flavored. 

WATER ICES 

Water ices are composed principally of syrup or sugar 
and fruit juice. Of this class of ices sherbets are the best 
known. There are simple and compound sherbets. The 
simple sherbet contains but one kind of fruit juicfe, though 
the juice of a lemon is usually added to each quart of syrupv 
in order to accentuate dr bring out the flavor of the fruit; 
the compound sherbet contains the juice of two or more 
kinds of fruit. In a raspberry sherbet half a cup of currant 
juice is often used in the place of lemon juice. 

The method of making a fine-grained sherbet — one that 
will keep frozen as long as a cream ice — is as follows: To 
sugar syrup at 28° by the syrup gauge add fruit juice to 
bring the density down to 20°, then add one teaspoonful of 
gelatine, softened in two tablespoonfuls of cold water and 
melted over hot water. When the mixture is frozen, add 
to a gallon of sherbet a meringue made of the stiff-beaten 
white of an egg and one tabiespoonful of hot sugar syrup 
or powdered sugar. It is more trouble to make the meringue 
of the syrup, but it is richer and more creamy than the mer- 
ingue made of uncooked sugar. 

In Europe most delicious sherbets are made' of pure fruit 
juice and sugat, no watet being used. The sUgat iS simply 
stirred ihto the frtlit juice and, when it i^ thoroughly dis- 



6o2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING' 

solved, the mixture is frozen. On account of the absence of 
water this form of sherbet is also smooth and fine-grained. 

In making granites and frapp^, water is added to fruit 
juice and sugar and the mixture is frozen without cooking; 
the gelatine and meringue finish are also omitted. The omis- 
sion of these things, together with the fact that water is 
used uncooked, tends to make these ices more or less granular 
and crystalline in texture. They are served in cups when 
only half frozen, and they melt very quickly. 

Punches are water ices to which liquors are added, usually 
after the ices are frozen. Lemon and pineapple ice are con- 
sidered the most suitable for this purpose. They are also 
finished with meringue. 

METHOD OF FREEZING 

When a freezer with a crank is used and the chilled mix- 
ture, of whatever kind it may be, is packed for freezing, the 
amount of salt and ice being proportioned according to the 
texture desired, turn the crank slowly and steadily until 
it becomes difficult to turn it longer. Open the can, remove 
the dasher, scrape the hardened mixture from the sides of 
the can, and beat it with a perforated wooden spoon till 
smooth ; close the can, put the cork in the cover, draw off 
the brine, and add fresh ice and salt, covering the top with 
the same. Then cover the freezer with a piece of carpet or 
a blanket and allow the frozen mixture to stand two hours 
or longer, to "ripen." When a freezer without a crank is 
employed, the mixture is scraped from the sides of the can, 
to which it adheres in freezing, with a wooden spatula, and 
beaten thoroughly two or three times in the half -hour which 
is needed for freezing. 

MOULDING 

When ice is to be served from a mould, have the mould 
ready, chilled and partly buried in salt and ice; then, when 
the frozen mixture has been well beaten, fill the mould 
solidly in every part, heaping the mixture a little above the 
brim; cover with a piece of wrapping-paper, a little larger 



SERVING ICES 603 

than the top of the mould, over this press the cover down 
tightly, and bury the naould in ice* and salt, using four parts 
of ice to one of salt. When ready to serve, wash the mould 
with cold water, to remove the brine, and wipe perfectly 
dry: take off the cover and the paper, invert the mould on 
a dish and, if the room be warm, the tin may be slipped 
from the ice in a few moments. If the mould be put into 
warm or hot water, the ice melts upon the outside and pre- 
sents an unsightly appearance. 

Sometimes two or more kinds of cream, or sherbets, are 
placed in moulds, in even layers; when two kinds are used, 
an ice panachde results; if there be three, an ice harlequin 
results. When cream of two or more colors is arranged by 
spoonfuls without order, it is fashioned in pompadour style. 

When ices of two colors, either sherbets or creams, or a 
cream and a sherbet, are repacked in a melon or bombe mould, 
one as a lining, the other as a centre, the ice is called a bombe 
glac6. 

SERVING ICES 

For individual service, handsome glass or china cups, 
either with or without a saucer, are provided. These are 
quite generally used for punch, frappd or sherbet, or for 
ice cream that is served with a sauce. 

Meringues and paper cases provide a favorite means of 
serving individual ices. Meringues are filled just before 
serving; the cases after being filled are set aside closely packed 
in a receptacle that is closed tightly to keep out saltwater, 
in equal parts of ice and salt for an hour or more. To serve, 
set the filled case inside a larger and more ornamental case. 
At serving, sprinkle with macaroon crumbs, sliced or 
chopped pistachio nuts, candied violets, etc. 

Ices frozen in moulds are often dressed on a foundation of 

ice ^i. e., water tinted with vegetable colors, and frozen in 

moulds designed for the purpose, then unmoulded on a serv- 
ing dish covered with lace paper. An ice thus raised from 
the dish is displayed to advantage. A figure often surmounts 
the ice, the whole being covered, with spun sugar. In winter 



6o4 PRACTICAL COOKING AMD SERVING 

these blocks will freeze over hight if left Standing in the 
open air. The National Baker fecetitly publishe(d thfe fol- 
lowing fohttiila fot freezing these stands in sumttier: "Lfet 
the moiilds stand buried fout hours in a mixture of salt, 
saltpfetre and ice, in the proportion of two pounds of salt and 
four ounces of saltpetl-e to six or eight pounds of crushed icb." 
Plain Cream ices and frozen puddings are served sUr-- 
routided by whipped cteam, a rich sauce, frUit purde iced, 
or preserved fruit. Old-faShioned preserved gingfer that 
comes in jarS is appropriately setved with lemon ice cream. 

RECIPES FOR ICES THAT ARE STIRRED WHILE 
FREEZING 

PHILADELPHIA CREAM ICE. (VANILLA) 

I cup of sugar, or 1-2 a vanilla bean, or 

1 1-2 cUpsof syfup at i8° 1 tablespootifiil of vanilla 

by the syrup gauge. extract. 

I quart of thin cream. 

Scald the cream and sugar With the vanilla bean; let cool 
and freeze according to directions given above. If vanilla 
extract be used, add just before freezing. A novel and par- 
ticularly good way of serving this cream is in small melons, 
the size of a bteakfast cUp. Cut Out a round cover, remove 
the seeds, fill with cream and rfcplacb the covet, "the melons 
should be ptevtously chilled. 

NEAPOLITAN CREAM ICE. (VANILLA) 

I pint of milk and 6 to 12 yolkfeofeggs. 

I pint of cream, or 1-2 a vanilla bean, or 

I quart of rich, creamy milk. i tablespoonful of vanilla 

extract. 

(See Neapolitan cream ice, page 599.) 

CREAM ICE WitH JUNKE'r. (VANtLLA) 

I cup of double cream. i Junket tablet dissolved in 

1 Gup of sugar, or i tablespoonful of cold water 

I 1-2 cups of syrup at 28" i tablespoonfvd of vanilla ex- 

by the sy tup gauge. tract. 

I qdatt of milk. 



FRUIT CREAM ICES 605 

Heat the milk with the sugar or syrup until j^st lukewarm, 
not over 100° P.; remove from the fire, stir in the dissolved 
tablet and the flavoring, and let stand undisturbed in a warm 
room until the mixture jelUes; let chill, then pour into the 
can of the freezer and freeze as usual. 

CREAM ICE WITH CORNSTARCH OR ARROWROOT 
(VANILLA) 

This form of cream ice is in reality a sweetened and fla- 
vored white sauce. If cream be not at hand and rich milk 
be used, the ice is improved by beating into it while hot 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, a little at a time. 

I pint pf rich milk. i pint of cre^m. 

I cup of sugar. Yolks of three or more eggs. 

I level tablespoonful of com- 1-2 a vanilla bean, or 

starch or arrowroot. i tablespoonful of vanilla. 

Scald the milk and stir into it the cornstarch or arrow- 
root, mixed with half of the sugar; stir constantly until 
thickened 'slightly, then occasionally for about fifteen min- 
utes; beat the yolks of eggs, add the other half of the sugar 
and beat again; then mix with a little of the hot mixture, 
and when well blended stir into the hot mixture; add the 
cream and strain. When cold add the flavor and freeze. 

FRUtT QREAM ICES 

1. Crush the fruit or berries to a pulp; add the juice of 
half a lemon to each pint of pulp and sweeten to taste with 
sugar syrup (28° by the syrup gaugp); add to ^.ny of the 
creams given above when h^H fro?en; finish freezing and 
packing as usual. The best result i? obtained by the use 
of syrup. With peaches ^nd apricots retain the vanilla fia.- 
voring. With strawberries, raspberries and cherries it may 
be omitted. 

2. Mix one quart of strawberry, cherry or raspberry juice 
and one quart of thin cream with two cups or one pound pf 
sugar; stt-ain and freeze. For apricots ^nd peaches mix a 
quart, each, of fruit pulp and thin cream and three cups 
of sugar syrup, registering 28° by the syrup ga,uge, in which 



6o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the blanched kernels and one-fourth a vanilla bean have 
been infused; then freeze as usual. Pineapple juice 
needs be scalded before it is added to the cream, to 
avoid the bitter taste that would otherwise be occasioned 
by the action of the digestive principle in the pineapple. 
This bitter taste is even more pronounced when eggs or milk 
are used, either of which contains more of the proteid prin- 
ciple that is digested by the pineapple than does cream. 
Fruit ices are often improved in appearance by the addition 
of a little color paste, to heighten the tint of the fruit, which 
has been lessened by the addition of the cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM ICE 

Make a vanilla cream by any of the recipes given above ; 
while this is hot stir into it from two to four ounces of choco- 
late, melted over the teakettle and stirred smooth by the 
gradual addition of a little of the hot cream. When eggs 
or other thickening is used, add after the chocolate. A piece 
of stick cinnamon, scalded in the milk or cream, gives a 
rich, spicy taste that is a great improvement to this ice. 
Strain the mixture before freezing. 

CARAMEL CREAM ICE 

I pint of milk. 6 egg yolks. 

I 1-4 cups of sugar. i pint of cream. 

Cook three-fourths a cup of sugar to the caramel stage, 
345° to 350° F. (See page 33.) Remove at once from the fire 
and, while it is a golden brown color, pour onto an oiled 
marble or platter to cool; then pound quite fine and add to 
the milk, scalded over hot water; beat the yolks of the eggs 
with the rest of the sugar and a few grains of salt and, when 
the caramel is dissolved, cook these in the hot milk until the 
mixture coats the spoon ; add the cream and strain, or reserve 
the cream until the custard is cold. A tablespoonful of vanilla 
may be added if desired. If preferred, boiling water may 
be poured into the caramel and the liquid caramel then 
poured into the milk. 



FIG CREAM TCE 607 

BURNT ALMOND CREAM ICE 

Prepare as the above, adding a cup of blanched almonds, 
cut small and browned in the oven, to the caramel just as 
It is taken from the fife; pound the cooled mixture very- 
smooth, adding a little cream if needed. Strain or not, as 
desired, before freezing. 

PISTACHIO CREAM ICE, NO. i 

Make a vanilla cream ice by any of the recipes given above ; 
for each tablespoonful of vanilla extract used add one 
te,aspoonful of almond extract. Tint with green vegetable 
color paste. 

PISTACHIO CREAM ICE, NO. 2 

Scald a pint of milk with the thin yellow rind of half an 
orange carefully washed; beat six yolks of eggs with a cup 
and a fourth (lo ounces) of sugar and cook in the hot milk 
until the mixture coats the spoon; add one-fourth a pound 
of fresh-peeled pistachio nuts and an ounce of candied citron, 
pounded smooth, with a cup of cream; when cold add a 
pint of cream and tint delicately with vegetable green color 
paste; strain through a fine sieve and freeze. 

SULTANA ROLL WITH CLARET SAUCE 

Line a cylindrical mould (water tight, pound-size empty 
baking powder boxes answer the purpose) with a pistachio 
cream ice, sprinkle the inside with sultana raisins cooked 
tender in sugar syrup at about 32° by th^ syrup gauge, fill 
the centre with Charlotte Russe filling (page 617), cover with 
pistachio cream ice and let stand an hour, packed in equal 
measures of ice and salt. Serve in slices with a claret sauce. 
The raisins may also be soaked in spirits. 

FIG CREAM ICE 

Into an unflavored cream ice, made by any of the formulas, 
beat when frozen a cup of cooked figs, chopped fine, passed 
through a sieve and mixed with the juice of half a lemon 



6o8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and three or four tablespoonfuls of sherry. A plain vanilla, 

caramel or lemon cream ice is particularly good served with 

stewed bag figs. 

GINGER CREAM ICE 

Add to three pints of plain cream ice, made by any of the 
recipes given above, when nearly frozen, a cup of preserved 
ginger, chopped fine, pounded in a mortar, passed through 
a sieve and mixed with three-fourths a cup of sherry wine; 
then finish freezing and let stand an hour or more before 
serving. 

COFFEE CREAM ICE 

To any one of the four recipes given for vanilla cream ice 
add two-thirds a cup of clear black coffee in the place of 
vanilla. 

CREAM ICE WITH NUTS OR MACAROONS. (BISQUE) 

To the recipe for Neapolitan cream ice, when frozen, beat 
in a generous cup of either chopped nuts or powdered and 
sifted macaro6ns. 

TUTTI FRUTTI CREAM ICE 

To any of the recipes given for vanilla cream ice add, 
when frozen, six ounces — ^nearly a cup — of candied cherries, 
apricots, pineapple, etc., softened in hot syrup, or soaked in 
spirits, then drained and chilled- 

PLUM PUDDING GLACE 

To a chocolate cream ice, tha,t made with eggs preferred, 
add when frozen a generous half-pound of fruit — sultan^ 
raisins, cleaned currants, slices of citron and French 
candied fruit cut sniall. Cook until very tender in a heavy 
syrup, or let stand over night in Jamaica rum to cover, then 
drain and chill. When well mixed with the ice, put into a 
melon mould, lined with lady fingers, and pack in three parts 
of ice to one of salt. Let stand an hour. Serve with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored, or with a sauce. The lining 
of lady fingers may be omitted. 



VANILLAv SAUCE FOR CREAM ICE 609 



NESSELRODE PUDDING 

20 large chestnuts. 2 ounces of preserved pineapple. 

The yolks of four eggs. 2 ounces of currants. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. i cup of whipped cream. 

1 pint of scalded cream. Sugar syrup or maraschino to 

2 ounces of raisins. cover the fruit. 

Cook the chestnuts, peeled and blanched (see page 34), 
in syrup sugar, at 16° by the ga,uge, to cover until tender. 
Cut six of the chestnuts in small pieces and press the rest 
through a sieve. 

Cook the raisins and currants in syrup at 16° until plump 
and tender; add the pieces of chestnut and pineapple and 
let cool in the syrup. 

Cook the yolks and sugar, beaten together', in the scalded 
cream until the mixture coats the spoon; add the sifted 
chestnuts and press the whole through a fine sieve. When 
this is cold, partly freeze, then add the cup of wlaipped cream 
and finish freezing; beat in the fruit and nuts drained from 
the, syrup and pack in a fancy mould ; press the cover in place 
over a piece of wrapping paper and let stand in ice and salt 
an hour. Serve with a rich, boiled custard, whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored, or a pudding sauce.' 

SAUCE FOR FROZEN PUDDING, NESSELRODE PUDDING, 

ETC. 

Beat the yolks of three egss until thick ; add three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar and beat again. Stir over the 
fire in a double-boiler until the mixture thickens a little. 
Then pour into a .cold dish and beat until it is cold, light 
and creamy. Flavor to suit the taste, and then mi?c in lightly 
a cup and a half of cream whipped to a dry, stiff froth. 

VANILLA SAUCE FOR CHOCOLATE OR STRAWBERRY 
CREAM ICE, NO. i 

Cook two cups of water and one, cup of sugar ten minutes ; 
add one teaspoonful of granulated gelatine softened in three 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, strain and chill. When ready 



6 10 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

to use add one teaspoonful of vanilla extract and one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

VANILLA SAUCE FOR CHOCOLATE OR STRAWBERRY 
CREAM ICE, NO. 2 

To a pint of single cream add one-half a cup of syrup, at 
from 32° to 3S° by the syrup gauge, and one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE FOR VANILLA OR LEMON CREAM 

ICE 

Boil three-fourths a cup of sugar with half a cup of water 
ten minutes; let cool and when ready to serve add a cup of 
chilled strawberry juice and pulp. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR VANILLA CREAM ICE 

Melt an ounce of chocolate over hot water and add one 
cup of sugar and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and, gradu- 
ally, a cup and a half of boiling water; stir and cook five 
minutes after boiling begins, then add half a teaspoonful 
of gelatine softened in cold water to cover, strain, and when ' 
cold add a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. A level teaspoon- 
ful of arrowroot, smoothed in a little water and cooked five 
minutes in the syrup, may take the place of the gelatine. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE, NO. 2 

Melt an ounce and a half of chocolate over hot water; 
gradually add half a cup of hot syrup (from 32° to 35°) and 
stir in a cup of hot cream ; strain and when cool add to a 
second cup of cream whipped stiff. Flavor with half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP FOR VANILLA CREAM ICE 

I ounce of chocolate. 2 inches of stick cinnamon. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 2 cups of sugar less three table- 

I cup of boiling water. spoonfuls. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water; add three tablespoon- 
, fuls of sugar and the boiling water gradually, stirring mean 



STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE GLACE 6ii 

while; when smooth and glossy add the sugar and cinnamon 
and stir until boiling begins; let boil five minutes, strain, 
cool and add the vanilla. Serve with vanilla ice cream. A 
sherbet cup is the most convenient dish for serving ice 
cream with a syrup sauce. 

COFFEE SAUCE FOR VANILLA OR LEMON CREAM ICE 

Make a boiled custard of a cup ,of clear, black cofEee, the 
yolks of three eggs and one-third a cup of sugar; when cold 
add a cup of thick cream. 

CURRANT SAUCE FOR SULTANA ROLL 

Sweeten currant juice, strained through a jelly bag with 
a little lemon juice, with sugar, or syrup at 32° by the syrup 
gauge. Or, boil one cup of sugar and one-fourth a cup of 
water six minutes; let cool and add half a cup Of currant 
juice and one tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

HOT MAPLE SAUCE FOR VANILLA OR LEMON CREAM 

ICE 
Boil two cups of maple syrup and one-fourth a cup, each, 
of condensed milk and hot water to the thread degree. Pour 
while hot over a service of cream. Half a cup of cream or 
one-fourth a cup of butter may be substituted for the con- 
densed milk and water. 

CLARET SAUCE FOR SULTANA ROLL 
Boil one cup of sugar and one-third a cup of water seven 
or eight minutes; let cool and add one-third a cup of claret. 

CREAM ICES WITH VARIATIONS 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE GLACE 

Prepare a strawberry cream ice by any of the recipes 
given. When frozen pack in a Charlotte Russe mould lined 
with lady fingers, put into a freezing box or pail, with water- 
tight cover, and let stand an hour. To serve, turn from the 
mould onto a dish with lace paper doily; garnish with un- 
huUed berries. 



6i2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PEACH CREAM ICE EN SURPRISE 

I 1-4 cups of sugar. Rose color paste. 

I quart of thin cream. Sliced peaches. 

I cup of peach pulp. Sugar or syrup to sweeten. 

1-2 a vanilla bean or Whipped cream. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. s drops of almond extract. 

Scald the cream with the vanilla bean, if at hand; when 
cold add the sugar dissolved in the peach pulp (peaches 
pared and pressed through a sieve) and the extract; freeze 
as usual, then tint delicately with the color paste and use 
to line a two-quart melon mould to the depth of an inch 
and a half. Reserve enough of the ice to cover the top of 
the mould, and to the rest add an equal quantity, each, of 
sliced peaches, chilled, mixed with sugar or syrup to sweeten, 
and whipped cream measured after whipping. Use as a 
filling for the centre of the mould; cover this with the ice 
cream reserved for the purpose, filling the mould to over- 
flow; press down the cover over a piece of wrapping paper 
and let stand buried in ice and' salt one hour. Avoid longer 
packing, lest the fruit be frozen too hard. Strawberries are 
particularly good if not allowed to stand too long. Before 
adding the fruit to the centre, a ^second lining of lady fingers 
or angel cakelets may be used. Or, the fruit may be sprinkled 
with noyau or curacoa before being mixed with the other 
ingredients. 

BANANAS EN SURPRISE 

i quart of thin cream. 1-3 a cup of syrup registering 28° 

I cup of sugar. by the syrup gauge. ' 

The yellow rind of half a lemon. Juice of half a lemon. 
I cup of banana pulp. Salpicon of candied fruit. 

(Cherries, pineapple, etc.) 

Scald the cream with the rind and sugar, strain, let cool 
and partially freeze; then add the banana pulp mixed with 
the syrup and lemon juice and finish freezing. Have ready 
chilled, fresh-looking banana skins, injured as little as pos- 
sible in removing the pulp ; fill these with the frozen, mixture, 
putting a spoonful of the salpicon in the centre of each; 



PEACH SHERBET 613 

press the strip of skin back iti place and set aside in a freez- 
ing, box — an ice cream mould or tin pail with tight-fitting 
cover will answer — buried in equal parts of ice and salt aii 
hour. For the salpicon, cut the fruit in small pieces, mix 
with a little thick syrup, at about 35° by syrup gauge, flavored 
to taste. 

CHOCOLATE BOMBE WITH FRUIT 

Line a melon mould with chocolate cream ice; fill the 
centre with Charlotte Russe mixture to which has been added 
three-fourths a cup of French fruit, cut fine, cooked and 
cooled in syrup or soaked in rum or sherry and then drained. 
Let stand an hour packed in equal measures of ice and salt. 

WATER ICES 

SHERBETS FROM PRESERVED FRUITS 

Add water to the syrup drained from the fruit until, when 
tested with the syrup gauge, it registers 20°; add the fruit 
crushed or cut into bits, also to a pint of syrup the juice of 
from a half to a whole lemon as is needed to bring out the 
particular flavor, then freeze as usual. When canned fruit 
is used, add syrup, if needed, so that the fruit syrup shall 
register 28°, then add water to reduce to 20°. 

PEACH SHERBET FROM FRESH FRUIT (ITALIAN 
METHOD) 

I quart of peach pulp. i 1-2 cups of sugar, or sugar syrup 

I cup of orange juice. at 32° to bring the density 

Juice of one lemon. of the mixture to 20° by 

the syrup gauge. 
Mix and freeze as usual. 

PEACH SHERBET (AMERICAN METHOD) 

1 quart of water. 10 peach kernels. 

2 cups of sugar. The juice of two oranges. 
I teaspoonful of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 

I 1-2 cups of peach pulp. 

Boil the water, peach kernels and sugar twenty minutes; 
add the gelatine softened in two tablespoonfuls of cold water 
and strain. When cold add the peach pulp (peaches pared, 



6i4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

stoned and the pulp passed through a ricer or sieve), the 
orange and lemon juice. Freeze as usual and serve from the 
freezer or mould. 

ORANGE SHERBET WITH SYRUP 

To any qantity of sugar syrup registering 28° by the syrup 
gauge, add fruit juice to bring the density down to 20°; add 
also the juice of a lemon for each quart of mixture. One 
cup of lemon juice, or two cups of orange, strawberry or 
peach pulp and juice, will be required to reduce the density 
of abeut two cups and a half of syrup at 28° to 20°. To make 
this quantity of syrup boil one pint (one pound of sugar) 
and one quart (one pound) of water twenty minutes. Add 
to this quantity of mixture, before freezing, a teaspoonful 
of gelatine, softened in cold water and dissolved over hot 
water, or beat into it when frozen a meringue made by beat- 
ing one-fourth a cup of syrup at the thread degree into the 
white of an egg beaten until foamy. 

COFFEE SHERBET 

3-4 a cup of fresh ground coffee. i 1-2 cups of sugar or 

1-2 a cup of cold water. 2 1-4 cups of syrup at 28° by 

The white and crushed shell of one syrup gauge. ■, 

egg. 2 teaspoonfuls of granulated gela-. 

6 cups of boiling water. tine softened in.cold water. 

Mix the ground coffee with the egg and cold water; add 
the boiling water and let boil three minutes; strain, add 
the gelatine and strain again over the sugar or syrup; let 
cool and freeze. Cream in some form should be served with 
this sherbet. If served in sherbet cups, a spoonful of whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored before whipping, may be added 
to each cup. A handsome dish results, when the sherbet is 
used as the lining of a bombe or melon mould, the centre of 
which is filled with Charlotte Russe filling or vanilla cream ice. 

GRAPE SHERBET 

I quart of water. i pint of grape juice. 

I pint of sugar. The juice of two lemons. 

I teaspoonful of gelatine. 
Proceed as usual. 



COCOA FRAPPE 615 

PINEAPPLE CREAM IN PINEAPPLE SHELL 

3 cups of water. i cup of double cream. 

I pint of shredded pineapple. 1-4 a cup of syrup at 32° by 

I cup of sugar. syrup gauge, or 

I teaspoonful of gelatine.. 1-4 a cup of sugar. 

The juice of two lemons. 
Boil the first three ingredients twenty minutes; add the 
gelatine, softened in cold water, and when cold add the lemon 
juice; strain and freeze to a mush; then add the cream and 
syrup or sugar beaten solid, fill into the chilled shell of a 
pineapple, set in a dish froha which salt water may be ex- 
cluded and bury in ice and salt about an hour. 

FRUIT CUP 
Let slices of peeled peaches, bits of prepared pineapple, 
stoned cherries, peeled plums, white grapes, seeded and 
skinned, and orange sections stand in their own juice and 
syrup at 35° by the gauge, surrounded by ice until thoroughly 
chilled. To serve, dispose in tall wine glasses and cover 
with a few spoonfuls of fruit sherbet flavored to taste. 

FRAPPES 
These ices are served half frozen (an icy granular texture 
is preferred) ; to insure this, no gelatine is used and sugar 
instead of, syrup is usually employed. Equal measures of 
ice and sa^t also tend to secure this condition. Serve from 
a punch bowl in cups. Cider" frapp6 is sweet cider half frozen . 
COCOA FRAPPE 
1-2 a pound of cocoa. The whites of two eggs. 

3 cups of sugar. i cup of sugar. 

2 cups of boiling wate^. i pint of whipped cream. 

31-2 quarts of scalded milk. ^ vanilla bean or four tablespoon- 

Cinnamon bark. fuls of vanilla extract. 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the hot water gradually 
and cook until smooth, then stir into the milk scalded with 
the cinnamon bark and vanilla bean; let cook, stirring oc- 
casionally, ten minutes ; let cool, add the flavoring, if needed, 
and when partly frozen add the cream beaten stiff and mixed 
with the beaten whites of the eggs, to which the sugar has 



6i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

been added, and finish freezing. Serve in cups with or with- 
ont whipped cream, sweetened and flavored before whipping. 

COFFEE FRAPPE 

Dissolve three-fourths a cup of sugar in a quart of clear, 
black cofEee and freeze. Serve in frapp^ cups or glasses with 
whipped cream as a garnish. A forcing bag with star tube 
is of assistance in placing the cream. 

CRANBERRY FRAPPE 

Boil one quart of cranberries in a pint of water five or six 
minutes and strain through a coarse cheesecloth; add the 
juice of two lemons and enough syrup, registering 28° by the 
syrup gauge, to bring the density of the mixture when well 
blended to 20° Freeze to a mush. Serve.in cups either with 
or after roast turkey. 

CANTELOUPE FRAPPE 

3 pints of canteloupe pulp. The juice of three lemons or 

2 cups of sugar. 1-2 a cup of lemon juice. 

Mix the pulp, sugar and lemon juice and pass through 
a very fine sieve. Freeze as usual. Serve from glass cups, or 
from the chilled rind of the melon shaped into a basket. 

FROZEN APRICOTS 

Remove the skins from the kpricots in a quart can and 
cut the pulp in small pieces; add the juice, one quart of water 
and two cups of sugar and stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
Freeze and allow the mixture to stand an hour or two before 
it is served. 

BOMBE GLACE 

These handsome ices are very easily prepared. The hand- 
somest bombes are. those in which there is a pronounced 
contrast in color between the mixtures on the outside and 
the inside of the bombes. Cream or water ices may be used 
in combination or separately. Bombes in which the lining 
is made of a sherbet and the centre of a Charlotte Russe 
filling are always attractive and offer a compromise between 




FRUIT CUP. (See page 615.) 




STRAWBERRY BOMBE GLACE. 
Moulded in melon mould. (See page 616.) 



STRAWBERRY CANNELON GLACE 617 

the richness of a cream and the lack of it in a sherbet. In 
Uning a mould, let the chilled mould stand in a pail of equal 
parts of ice and salt, then spread the frozen mixture evenly to 
the depth of an inch upon the inside of the mould, turn in the 
mixture for the centre, cover with the frozen mixture used for 
the lining, filling the mould to overflow, spread a piece of 
wrapping paper over the top and press down the cover over it ; 
finish packing the mould and let stand an hour or two. If the 
mould is to stand several hours or over night in warm weather, 
omit the paper and after pressing the cover down tightly bind 
closely over the joining of cover and mould a strip of cptton 
cloth an inch wide that has been dipped in melted suet. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING 

The white of one egg. i teaspoonful of vanilla or 

1-3 a cup of powdered sugar. orange extract, or 

I cup of double cream. 2 tablespoonfuls of wine. 

Beat the white of egg until dry and add the sugar gradu- 
ally. Beat the cream with the flavoring until thick to the 
bottom of the bowl ; fold the two mixtures together. Other 
flavorings may be used : candied fruit cut small or chopped 
nuts may be added to the mixture. Chill before using. 
This quantity gives a generous filling for a three-pint mould. 

COMBINATIONS FOR BOMBE GLACE 

I. Strawberry, raspberry, orange or coffee sherbet and 
Charlotte Russe filling: The natural coloi of each of these 
gives a handsome contrast with the white of the cream. 
2. Lemon sherbet may be tinted pink with vegetable color 
paste or liquid. 3. The natural yellow of orange sherbet 
is changed to salmon by the use of a little pink color. 4. 
Pineapple sherbet tinted a deUcate green with white or 
pink centre gives a pleasing contrast. 

In bombes made of creams, chocolate ice cream with Char- 
lotte Russe centre filled with candied fruit is one of the best. 

STRAWBERRY CANNELON GLACE 
Line a cylindrical mould with strawberry sherbet, page 
614, and fill the centre with Charlotte Russe mixture. 



6i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RECIPES FOR ICES FROZEN WITHOUT STIRRING 

Parfaits, mousses, biscuits and souffles are the principal 
ices in this class. In each of these whipped cream is the 
principal ingredient. The freezing is so conducted as to re- 
tain the open, mossy texture of the cream. On this account 
the whipped cream is carefully folded into the other ingre- 
dients, then turned into a mould or proper receptacle, and 
set aside to freeze without interference. Biscuits take their 
name from their size, being in reality parfaits frozen in in- 
dividual forms. Soufflfe are parfaits, reinforced by gela- 
tine and a larger proportion of liquid and frozen in souffle 
dishes. A paper band, fastened above the dish and removed 
before serving, accentuates the idea of the souffle. 

After much investigation and thought, though not in 
harmony with the writings of many of the foremost chefs 
of the day, it seems best to let the use of eggs cooked with 
syrup as the foundation of an ice mark the line of division 
between parfaits and mousses. The parfaits, in which eggs 
and syrup are used, freeze more slowly than do the mousses 
prepared with sugar and gelatine and, in consequence, need 
stand packed in ice and salt a longer time, about four hours. 
Neither should be frozen very hard. They do not slip from 
the mould as easily as ordinary ices, and for this reason, 
as also on account of improved appearance and taste, the 
mould containing them is often lined with sherbet or a fruit 
jelly. 

WHITE OR ANGEL PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. A scant tablespoonful of vanilla 

1-3 a cup of boiling water. extract or half a vanilla 

The whites of two eggs. bean steeped in the syrup. 

I pint of double cream. 

jioil the sugar and water to the thread degree and pour 
in a fine stream onto the whites of the eggs, beaten until 
foamy, beating constantly; when cold fold in the cream 
beaten solid, flavor, turn into a mould and let stand packed 
in equal measures of ice and salt four hours. When turned 



CARAMEL PARFAIT 6i^ 

from the mould sprinkle with candied violets, or garnish 
with fresh violets and leaves. 

GRAPE JUICE PARFAIT 
Same as white parfait, after substituting one-third a cup 
of grape juice for the boiling water and adding half a cup 
of grape juice and the juice of half a lemon to the cream 
before whipping. 

SUNSHINE PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. i tablespoonful or orange 

17-4 a cup of boiling water. extract. 

The yolks of three eggs. i pint of double cream. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread degree and pour 
in a fine stream onto the beaten yolks of the eggs; return 
to the fire and cook over hot water until the mixture coats 
the spoon; beat until cold and add the flavor and ths cream 
beaten solid. Let stand packed in ice and salt about two, 
hours after moulding. 

COFFEE PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. i pint of double cream. 

1-4 a cup of clear black coffee. 1-4 a cup of clear black coffee. 

The yolks of three eggs. 

See Sunshine parfait ; add the second fourth cup of coffee 
to the cream before whipping. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT 

Add two or three ounces of melted chocolate to the syrup 
for Sunshine Parfait, before adding it to the yolks of eggs, 
and flavor with vanilla. A cup of French fruit, cut small, 
steeped in syrup and drained and then sprinkled into the 
mixture as it is put into the mould, improves this. 

CARAMEL PARFAIT 

I pint of double cream. The yolks of three eggs. ' 

1-2 a cup of granulated sugar i teaspoonful 01 vanilla if de- 

caramelized, sired. 

1-3 a cup of granulated sugar. 1-2 a cup of hot brown almonds if 

1-3 a cup of boiling water. desired. 

Cook the sugar to caramel and dissolve in the boiling 
water; add the other half a cup of sugar and cook until the 



620 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

syrup threads; pour in a fine stream on to the yolks of the 
eggs, return to the fire over hot water and cook until the 
mixture coats the spoon, then beat until cold; fold in the 
cream, beaten solid, and finish as usual. . 

GINGER PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. 3-4 a cup of preserved ginger 

1-4 a cup of water. (root and syrup) . 

The whites of two eggs. i pint of double cream. 

Juice of a lemon. 

Make an Italian meringue (boiled frosting) with the sugar 
and water cooked to the thread degree, 215° F., and the 
whites of eggs (see page 464). When cold add the ginger, 
pounded in a mortar and sifted, and lemon juice to taste, 
then fold in the whipped cream; turn into a mould prepared 
as usual and let stand buried in equal measures of ice and 
salt three or four hours. 

MIGNONETTE PARFAIT (THE CATERER) 

Steep a cup (packed measure) of chopped mint leaves 
in a cup of cold water two hours. Heat to the boiling point," 
then strain and add to the strained water one cup of sugar 
and cook without stirring after boiling begins to the soft 
ball stage. Pour in a fine stream onto the whites of three 
eggs, beaten to a foam (but not dry), and beat until cold, 
the dish standing in ice water meanwhile. Add a teaspoonful 
of rose water, two teaspoonfuls of orange water and fold in 
a pint of cream beaten solid. Line a quart melon-shaped 
mould with part of the mixture, tint that reserved with 
leaf-green color paste or spinach juice and use to fill the 
centre; cover with the untinted cream, press the cover down 
over a sheet of waxed paper (wrapping paper answers nicely) 
and let the mould stand buried in equal measures of ice and 
salt four hours. When removed from the mould surround 
with sprigs of green mint and mignonette. The parfait itself 
when unmoulded exhales the odor of the flower that gives 
its name to the dish. 



MOUSSE 621 

MAPLE PARFAIT 

I cup of hot maple syrup. i pint of double cream. 

Tfie yolks of four eggs. 

Pour the hot S5nnip, without cooking to the thread stage, 
onto the beaten yolks of the eggs; return to the fi^e and 
cook until the mixture coats the spoon; beat until cold and 
finish as usual. The parfaits are very rich forms of ices. 

BISCUIT TORTONI 

To Sunshine parfait add one-half a cup, each, of powdered 
and sifted lady fingers and macaroons. Then turn into paper 
cases and set in a freezing box (a mould or tin pail with 
close-fitting cover to exclude salt water may be used) with 
a layer of oiled or confectioner's paper between the layers 
of cases, and let stand packed in equal measures of ice and 
salt three or four hours. Before spreading the paper over 
the cages, sprinkle them with blanched almonds, chopped 
fine and browned in the oven, or with powdered macaroons. 

MOUSSE 

T pint of double cream. i cup of sherry wine, or 

3-4 a cup of powdered sugar. i cup of grape ' or other fruit 

1-4 a teaspoonful of salt. juice, or 

1-2 a cup of clear black coffee. 

Add the salt, sugar and flavoring to the cream and beat 
until solid to the bottom of the bowl; turn into a chilled 
mould and let stand packed in equal parts of ice and salt 
about three hours. When the flavoring, as fruit pulp and 
juice, coffee, etc., would dilute the cream too much, as when 
the whip from the single cream is used, a teaspoonful of 
gelatine, softened in two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water 
and melted over hot water, may be added to the liquid. 
When the mixture begins to thicken, fold the cream into it. 
If too large a proportion of gelatine be used, the mixture 
will not freeze readily, if at all. Such mixtures are in reality 
Bavarian creams. 



622 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



CARAMEL MOUSSE 

I pint of double cream. 1-2 a cup of granulated sugar, 

1-2 a cup of powdered sugar, caramelized. 

1-2 a cup of scalded milk. 

Cook the sugar to a caramel and turn onto an oiled slab 
or plate; when cold pound smooth, then let stand in the 
hot milk until dissolved. Cool the milk, add to the cream 
with the powdered sugar and beat until solid to the bottom 
of the bowl. Then finish as above. The addition of half a cup 
of sliced almonds, browned in the oven, to the caramel, just 
before turning it onto the slab gives Burnt Almond Mousse. 

PEACH, STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY MOUSSE 

I pint of double cream. The juice of half a lemon. 

I cup of fruit pulp and juice. 3-4 a cup of powdered sugar. 

One teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in two or three table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, if desired. Proceed as above. 

PEACH, STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY MOUSSE, NO. 2 

The white of one egg. i cup of double cream. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. i cup of fruit juice and pulp. 

Beat the white of egg until stiff and gradually beat in the 
sugar. Beat the cream and fruit juice until solid to the bot- 
tom of the bowl. Combine the two. Fill into a mould lined 
with lemon sherbet, cover with sherbet and let stand three 
or four hours packed in equal measures of salt and ice. 

CHESTNUT MOUSSE 

I cup of chestnut purfe. 1-2 a cup of candied cherries. 

2-3 a cup of sugar. t pint of double cream. 

T tablespoonful, scant, of vanilla extract. 

Dissolve the sugar in the pur^e while it is hot ; when cold 
add the vanilla and the cherries cut in halves. (Cook the 
cherries in syrup to cover and let cool in the syrup; drain 
before using.) Fold the cream, whipped stiff to the bottom 
of the bowl, into the chestnut mixture and turn into a mould; 
.protect from salt as usual and let stand three or four hours 
packed in equal parts of ice and salt. Serve with whole chest- 



RICE PUDDING GLACE 623 

nuts, cooked in lemon or vanilla syrup, or with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored, and candied cherries. 
PINEAPPLE MOUSSE WITH ORANGE JELLY 
Decorate the bottom of a chilled mould with candied 
cherries. Cover with liquid orange jelly and set aside to 
become firm. Mix one pint of double cream, three-fourths 
a cup of sugar and a cup of pineapple juice scalded and 
cooled. Whip very light. Turn into the mould, filling to 
overflow. Press the cover down over paper and let stand 
buried in equal parts of ice and salt three or four hours. A 
teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in cold water, may be added 
to the hot pineapple juice if desired. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE FRAPPE 
The yolks of three eggs. The whites of two eggs 

1-2 a cup of sugar. i cup of double cream. " 

1-2 a cup of strawberry juice and Strawberry jelly. 

pulp. I cup of strawberry juice and 

1-2 a cup of orange juice. pulp. 

1-2 a cup of sugar. The juice of half a lemon. 

1 tablespoohful of gelatine. 1-4 a clip of sugar, scant. 

1-4 a cup of cold water. 1-2 a tablespoonful of gelatine. 

Cook the yolks of the eggs, beaten with half a cup of sugar, 
in the fruit juice, scalded with the second half-cup of sugar; 
add the gelatine, softened in cold water, strain and cool in 
ice water; when the mixture begins to thicken, fold in the 
whites of the eggs, beaten dry, and the cup of cream; whipped 
solid. Turn the mixture into a souffle dish surrounded with a 
paper band that comes up about an inch above the edge of 
the dish. Turn the souffle into the dish, smooth the top and 
pour over it a strawberry jelly made of the ingredients given. 
(See Fruit Jellies, page 570.) Surround the dish with ice and 
salt and let stand four or more hours, to become chilled and 
partly frozen. The jelly may serve as sauce, or the cold orange 
sauce given on page 554 may be passed with a souffle. 
RICE PUDDING GLACE 

1-4 a cup of rice. i tablespoonful of vanilla extract or 

j-4 a teaspoonful of salt. 1-4 a cup of sherry wine. 

2 cups of milk. i 1-2 cups of double cream. 

3-4 a cup of powdered sugar. 



624 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Put the rice oyer the fire in plenty of cold water, let boil 
five minutes, then drain and return to the fire in a double 
boiler with one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and two cups of 
milk; cook until, the grains are tender, add the sugar and 
let become cold; flavor with one tablespoonful of vanilla 
and fold in the cream beaten solid. Put .the mixture into 
a quart mould, filling the comer? and packing solidly; press 
the cover down over a piece of wrapping paper and let stand 
packed in equal measures of ice and salt about two hours. 
The mixture should not be frozen very hard. Serve sur- 
rounded with orange or lemon jelly, cut in cubes, or with 
sliced oranges or pineapple, dressed with cold syrup, or with 
raspberry or strawberry preserves. 

SABAYON PUDDING 

Beat the yolks of six eggs. Add, gradually, a scant three- 
fourths a cup of sugar; set the dish over hot water and beat 
while adding gradually one cup of sherry. Raise the dish 
occasionally from the water, lest the mixture cook too fast. 
Continue cooking and beating until the mixture thickens, 
then add the juice of a small lemoii and beat over ice water 
until thick and cold ; then fold in an equal bulk of whipped 
cream. Have ready stale lady fingers, cut in inch pieces 
and sprinkled lightly with maraschino. Fill paper or china 
cases that fit into tiny silver casseroles, or cocottes, with 
alternate layers of the sabayon mixture and the lady fingers, 
adding now and then part of a maraschino cherry. Set into 
a pail, or mould, from which salt water may be excliided, 
and bury in ice and salt until well frozen (about two hours). 
Serve with a spoonful of whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored, and two or three cherries on the top of the ice.. 

PUNCH 

Ices called by the name of pv-nch are served just before 
the game. The foundation of these ices is a fruit sherbet; 
to this an Italian meringue and some kind of liquor is added. 
Roman punch is a lemon sherbet, to a quart of which a cup 
of Jamaica rum and a meringue made of the white of one egg 
and half a cup of hot syrup, at the soft-ball stage; has been 




SrRAWBERRi' SOUFFLE FRAPPE, (See page 623.) 




STRAWBERRY CANNELON GLACE, (See page 617.) 



, •* > 




COCOA FRAPPE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. (See nage 615) 



SERVING OF ICES 62 j 

added. A quart of punch is the quantity called for at a 
dinner of twelve covers. Champagne is usually added to an 
orange ice. The sherbet should be frozen quite hard before the 
liquor is added. This may be beaten in with paddle or with a 
long-handled wooden spoon or spatula, or the liquor may be 
poured over each service as it is taken to the dining-room. 
As alcohol does not freeze, this variety of ice is soft and ts 
eaten with a spoon from the glass in which it is served. 

TEA PUNCH (FOR RECEPTIONS, TEAS, ETC.) 

I quart of ice cream flavored with 1-2 a cup of water. 

lemon. i quart of strong tea infusion. 

The whites of three eggs. Brandy or ICirsch to taste. 

I cup of sugar. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread stage and pout 
onto the whites of the eggs, beaten until very foamy, but 
not dry; beat until cold, then add gradually the tea, fresh 
made and chilled; lastly mix the whole into the ice cream; 
turn the dasher a few times and serve half frozen in punch 
glasses. This may be served from a punch bowl. 

TOMATO PUNCH (SOPHIE COHEN) 

Heat slowly to Uie boiling point half a can of tomatoes, 
one pint oif -^ater, three sliced apples, juice of one lemon, 
one cup of granulated sugar, and one-fourth a teaspoonful 
of ground ginger. Let "boil five minutes, then pass through 
a fin*«eve; add two ounces of candied ginger, chopped fine, 
and four tablespoonfuls of maraschino. Freeze and serve 
in punch glasses after the roast. 

SERVING ICES , 

Besides the ways of serving ices mentioned in the intro- 
duction, and the lining of a mould with lady fingers, noticed 
.in Strawberry Charlotte Glac^, nou'gat cases and croquen- 
bouche of fruit, macaroons or cake are "considered worthy 
of attention according to GoufE^ and other French chefs. 
A croquenbouche of fruit is formed by fastening together 
with liquid caramel, either upon the inside or the outside 
of an oiled mould, glazed fruit. When ready to use, remove 



626 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

from the mould and set in place over a form of cream, fash- 
ioned in a mould of the same shape, but smaller in size, to 
insure a space between the cream and its cover. Wheii cake 
is used, choose sponge, bride's or pound cake, cut in rounds, 
and ice in two colors. Or use cake iced in two colors, in the 
same manner as is the bread in the illustration of the apple 
Charlotte (facing page 570). In this case, instead of dipping 
the edges of the cake in caramel, arrange the pieces on the in- 
side of the mould and fasten together with a piping of orna- 
mental icing, so that when dry the croquenbouche may be 
removed in one piece. Nougat cases are not usually at- 
tempted at home. 

FRUIT SHERBETS WITHOUT A SYRUP GAUGE 

1 quart of water. Scant pint of fruit juice. 

2 cups "of sugar. Juice of i lemon. 

I teaspoonful of gelatine. ' For lemon sherbet i cup of lemon 

juice. 

Boil the water and sugar twenty minutes (let boil vigorously 
during the whole time); add the gelatine softened in cold 
water, strain and when cold add the fruit juice and freeze. 

manner. Add a cup of water to the sugar when setting it 
over the fire to cook. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 
Boiling Sugar. Candy IVIaking 

" I can teach sugar to slip down your throat a million of ways.'' 

— Dekker and Ford. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF SUGAR AS PURCHASED (ATWATER) 

Carbo- 

Water Protein hydrates Fuel val. 

Per Per Per per-lb. 

cent. cent. cent. Calorics. 

Granulated sugar ... ... loo.o i,86o 

Maple sugar ... ... 82.8 1,54° 

Honey 18.2 .4 81.2 1,520 

Ices are more accurately prepared when a syrup of a cer- 
tain density is used instead of sugar and water. Syrup is 
also preferable to sugar for sweetening fruit punch, lemonade, 
etc., and many prefer it for sweetening tea and coffee. Sugar 
-is also boiled for nougat, many kinds of candy, for fondant 
used in candy making and icing cakes, and for spun sugar, 
of which there are several varieties. The boiling and spinning 
of sugar and the making of candies are classed among the 
"frills of cookery." But though everyone can not hope to 
master all the intricacies of this branch of the culinary art, 
there is no reason why young people should not become, 
with advantage to themselves, expert in making simple 
wreaths of spun sugar or candies from boiled sugar and fon- 
dant. In fact, what better training in habits of accuracy of 
observation and judgment can be had than that which is 
necessary in boiling sugar to the various degrees required in 
candy making. The sugar passes so quickly from one stage 
to another that nothing but the strictest attention to the 
business in hand will insure success. With a sugar ther- 
mometer the condition of the sugar can be determined at a 
glance. Professional candy-makers, from daily experience, 

627 



628 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

may dispense with the thermometer, but tyros in the art will 
find it of great advantage. 

DEGREE IN BOILING SUGAR 

In boiling sugar, some fourteen degrees of density are recog- 
nized by the confectioner; six of these are required in home 
candy making. These are designated as: Blow, soft ball, 
hard ball, soft crack, hard crack and caramel. The , blow 
degree is indicated by the thermometer at from 230° to 236°. 
To determine this degree, without a thermometer, put a small 
skimmer into the boiling syrup, withdraw, hold up and blow 
through it. If small air bubbles appear on the opposite 
side the degree is reached. 

SOFT BALL FROM 238° TO 242° F. 

This degree is indicated by the thermometer at from 238° 
to 242° F. To determine this stage without a thermometer, 
have ready a wire skewer, standing in a dish of cold water, 
remove this from the water, plunge into the syrup and then 
back again iilto the water; let remain in the water about ten 
seconds, then push off the sugar between the thumb and fore- 
finger and, if it can be worked, below the water, into a soft 
ball that does not stick to the fingers, it is boiled enough. 
Another way of testing is to dip a fork into the syrup and let 
the syrup drop from the fork back into the dish ; if, after all 
the drops have run off, a long hair-like thread remains, the 
syrup is boiled enough. This appearance is always seen in 
any stage above the soft ball. 

HARD BALL. ABOUT 248° F. 

Test in the same manner as for soft ball. If the cooked 
sugar forms a hard solid ball between the thumb and fore- 
finger, the degree is reached. 

SOFT CRACK. ABOUT 290° F. 

After the sugar is pushed from the skewer,- drop it into 
water, remove and press upon the teeth ; if it clings, but does 
not sticki^o the teeth, the stage is reached. 




SYRUP i;AUGE in test tube. (See page O29.) 
SUGAR SPINNER. (See page 637,) 



TO PREPARE SYRUP WITHOUT A GAUGE 629 

HARD CRACK. ABOUT 3io"» F. 

At this stage when pressed between the teeth the candy 
leaves them clean and free. 

CARAMEL DEGREE, 345° TO 354" F. 

Sugar cooked to this stage is used for spun sugar, for holding 
together macaroons and wafers, and for lining moulds in 
which custard is to be baked. The syrup is of a dark yellow 
color and snaps and breaks Uke thin glass when cooled. As it 
grows dark in color very quickly, when the right stage is 
reached, the vessel containing it needs be set at once for a 
moment or two into cold water to arrest the cooking. 
SYRUPS FOR ICES 

Syrup gives more satisfactory results than does sugar in 
sweetening compotes and, especially, water ices. Syrup 
does not, however, keep well for a very long time; boiled to 
a high density the surface soon crusts over, and, at low den- 
sity, mold soon appears on the surface. On this account in 
small families, unless ices are made almost daily, it is pre- 
ferable to make syrup as occasion demands. If, however, 
the making of ices, compotes, etc., be of frequent occurrence, 
it is well to have on hand a stock of syrup registering from 
28° to 32° by the syrup gauge. To prepare water ices, simply 
add fruit juice to bring the density down to 18° or 20°. To 
test the syrup, turn a little into a test-tube or tall bottle about 
an inch and a half in diameter, put in the syrup gauge and 
note the degree at which the gauge floats ; if the right degree 
be not indicated, return the syrup to the saucepan and con- 
tinue boiling, until when thus tested the correct density is 
secured. 

TO PREPARE SYRUP WITHOUT A GAUGE 

Put two cups of sugar and a cup and a half of water over 
the fire, and stir until the sugar is melted and boiling begins ; 
then let boil rapidly about five minutes, when it will register 
28°; every five minutes' additional boiling will thicken it one 
degree, thus, when it has boiled ten minutes longer, the syrup 
has a density of 30° and so on. The ingredients mentioned 



630 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

give two cups of syrup registering 28°. A quart of water and 
one pint of sugar, the quantity often indicated for water 
ices, boiled twenty minutes, gives two and one-half cups of 
syrup registering 28°. 

FONDANT 

Fondant is the basis of all French cream candies. It also 
makes the best frosting for Eclairs and small cakes. The 
varieties of candies made from fondant is also limitless. This 
is produced first of all by the kind of sugar used in the fondant 
itself, as white or maple, then the white may be varied by 
tinting and flavoring to correspond. The flavors in general 
use are vanilla, almond, rose, lemon, orange, peppermint and 
wine. The centres may be of fondant, or of nuts or French 
fruit, either alone or in combination. Marshmallows, gum- 
drops, pieces of fruit jelly, or whole candied cherries, may be 
dipped in fondant, producing candies named from the article 
"dipped." To make fondant successfully, experience is 
needed; but, as all sugar, provided it be not absolutely burned, 
may be used over again for same or other purpose, time would 
seem to be the one item of which an outlay is required. A 
beginner might start out with a pound of sugar (two cups) 
-and half a cup of water. Set over the fire and stir until 
boiling begins, then remove the spoon and in a few moments, 
with the hand or a brush dipped in cold water, wash down 
the sides of the saucepan, to remove any grains of sugar that 
have been thrown up in boiling. Cover again and let cook 
about five minutes. This process will tend to decrease, if 
not to obviate entirely, the accumulation of sugar on the 
sides of the saucepan. Now add one-fourth a teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar; and, if the fondant is to be cooked by means 
of a thermometer, put the thermometer into the syrup, and 
let the syrup cook until the temperature rises to about 238° F.,- 
the soft-ball stage. The exact degree on a particular ther- 
mometer to -which the sugar needs be boiled can be accurately 
determined after two or three trials and marked accordingly. 
When boiled just right, one thermometer might indicate, 
236°, another 238°, and still another as high as 242°. 




FONDANT MAKING. (See page 631.) 




BONBONS, FONDANT, CHOCOLATE CHESTNUTS AND 
MAPLE CREAMS. 



DIPPING THE CENTRES 631 

WORKING THE FONDANT 

When the sugar is done, turn it onto a large platter, or 
a marble or slate slab, lightly dampened with, water or 
rubbed over with the best grade of olive oil. Let stand un- 
disturbed until a dent can be made in the surface, then work 
the candy back and forth, with a wooden spatula, to a white, 
smooth, soft, creamy paste. While the paste is still soft and 
warm, gather together and knead with the hands as bread is 
kneaded, then press into an earthen bowl or a glass fruit jar, 
and cover closely with confectioner's paper, then again with a 
double fold of heavier paper. Store in a cool place. After 
twenty-four hours the fondant is ready for use. 

WHAT TO AVOID 

If the syrup be jarred while boiling, or if due care be not 
exercised in washing down the particles of sugar from the 
sides of the saucepan, or the mixture be not cooled enough 
before working with the spatula is begun, or if it be cooked too 
long, the fondant will not be smooth and creamy, but granular. 
To remedy this, water may be added and the whole process 
repeated. 

USING FONDANT. THE CENTRES 

The fondant may be made into "centres, " though its prin- 
cipal use is for "dipping" centres of some other mateirial, as 
fruit, nuts, marshmallows, etc. When it is to be made into 
centres, put a portion of the fondant on a large platter or 
marble slab and work into it such flavoring as is desired 
(chopped fruit and nuts may also be added), then shape into 
cones, balls, etc. Or, wrap a little fondant about the meat 
of a hazelnut, a blanched almond, a pistachio nut, or a 
candied cherry, and set aside on confectioner's paper several 

hours to harden. 

DIPPING THE CENTRES 

Melt a portion of the fondant over hot water (double- 
boiler), adding a few drops of hot water, or syrup at 30°, and 
such flavoring as is desired. Stir constantly while the fondant 
is melting, also while the centres are being dipped, to avoid 



632 ■ PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the formation of a crust. The fondant may be tinted at this 
time very delicately with color paste. Drop in the centres, 
one at a time, and, when well covered, remove with fork or 
candy tongs to a sheet of confectioner's paper, bringing the 
fork or dipper up over the -top of each piece, to show that the 
bonbons were "hand dipped. " Decorate at once such pieces 
as are to be ornamented with pieces of fruit or nuts. To 
decorate cones with chopped nuts, wait until the fondant is 
set, then dip the base delicately into the hot fondant and then 
into the chopped nuts. Chopped nuts may be used to give 
an acorn shape by dipping the round end of coned-shaped 
centres first in fondant and then in chopped nuts. These 
are very pretty, when the fondant is chocolate color and the' 
nuts are chopped almonds browned in the oven. Green 
tinted cones dipped in chopped pistachio nuts are also pretty. 

CANDIES FROM FONDANT 

PEPPERMINTS 

Melt the fondant over hot water, as described in "dipping 
the centres," and flavor to taste with a few drops of oil of 
peppermint or a larger quantity of the essence ; leave white or 
tint a delicate green with color paste, then drop from the tip 
of a spoon, or with a peppermint dropper, upon oiled paper. 
For rose mints flavor with rose extract and tint with rose color 
paste. 

CHOCOLATE MINTS 

When the "mints" are cold, drop them, one by one, into 
fondant, to which melted chocolate and vanilla have been 
added, then remove with a candy fork on to oiled paper again. 
Fondant makes the most creamy mints, but if this is not at 
hand, mints may be quickly made by the following recipe: 

FIVE MINUTE PEPPERMINTS 

I cup of white sugar. Lfeaf-green color paste, or 

1-4 a cup of boiling water. Damask rose color paste. 

6 drops of oil of peppermint. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, and let boil vigorously 
five minutes without stirring. Remove from the fire and beat 



MAPLE FONDANT NUT BARS 633 

until a thick cream, adding, meanwhile, six drops of oil of 
pepperment and enough color paste to give a delicate green or 
pink tint. Drop in rounds from the tip of a spoon on to paraf- 
fine or confectioner's paper to cool. 

CHOCOLATE CHESTNUTS 

Drain whole chestnuts, cooked as a compote or preserve, 
from the syrup; let dry in the warming oven, then dip into 
melted fondant, to which melted chocolate and vanilla have 
been added; let stand on oiled paper. 

TUTTI FRUTTI FONDANT 

Soften two pounds of fondant over hot water; beat into it 
the white of an egg, beaten until very frothy but not stiff, 
two ounces, each, of chopped or fine-cut citron, almonds, 
candied cherries, and pineapple, and a teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and turn into an agate pan lined throughout with oiled or pkraf- 
fine paper; cover with paper and place a second tin upon the 
fondant to press it with a light weight. Too much weight 
will make it heavy. Let stand twenty-four hours, then slice 
through the paper. Melted chocolate may be added with 
the fruit, and alternate layers of fruit and plain fondant, or 
plain and fruit chocolate fondant may be moulded at pleasure. 
MAPLE FONDANT 

I cup of maple sugar (1-2 a pound) 1-4 a teaspoonful of cream-of- 
I cup of granulated sugar. tartar. 

1-2 a cup of hot water. 

Prepare as ordinary fondant. 

MAPLE-AND-WALNUT SURPRISE 

Shape white fondant, flavored with curacoa and mixed with 
chopped cherries, into flat rounds, one-fourth an inch thick 
and the size of an English walnut ; let stand to harden an hour 
or more (over night is preferable), then dip into melted maple 
fondant and press half an English walnut on to the top of each. 
MAPLE FONDANT NUT BARS 

Stir a cup of chopped nuts into a pound of melted maple 
fondant and turn into a buttered brick mould to a depth of 
three-fourths an inch. When cold cut into bars. 



634 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CARAMELS 

Glucose is used in some of the best of caramels; but with 
or without glucose the boiling should be continued to about 
290° Fahr., the "soft crack" stage. During the last of the 
cooking the candy must be stirred constantly, to avoid burn- 
ing. When cooked it should be poured into rectangular pans 
of such size as will insure a thickness of three-fourths an inch. 
When firm, but not quite cold, cut into small squares. The 
pans need be well-buttered. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

Stir together over the fire one cup of molasses, half a cup of 
granulated sugar, and one-fourth a cup of water, until the 
sugar is dissolved. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
two squares, or ounces, of chocolate. Stir until the chocolate 
melts, then cook without stirring, until a little tried in cold 
water may be formed into a firm ball. Flavor with a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. The fire must be quite low for the last 
of the cooking, or the mixture will burn. (See Caramels.) 
VANILLA CARAMELS 

Put over the fire two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup 
of cream; one-fourth a cup, each, of raolasses and butter ; stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, then let cook without stirring 
from fifteen to eighteen minutes, or until a firm ball may be 
formed in cold water. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and beat until creamy. Substitute one-fourth a pound of 
melted chocolate for the molasses, if desired. 

VANILLA CARAMELS WITH GLUCOSE 

Stir half a can of condensed milk into a cup of sweet cream 
or milk. When evenly blended, add three-fourths a pound of 
granulated sugar (one cup and a half) and six oimces of glu- 
cose. Cook over a slow fire, stirring constantly, until a little 
tried in ice water forms a hard ball that softens a little be- 
tween the fingers. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla. 
VANILLA CARAMELS WITH NUTS 

Add the meats from about a dozen English walnuts broken 
into halves. 



MAPLE CREAMS 635 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS WITH GLYCERINE 

I cup of molasses. i tablespoonful of glycerine. 

1 cup of^sugar. 3 ounces of chocolate, grated. 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Cook according to directions for caramels, adding the - 
chocolate near the last of the cooking. 

FUPGE (HAROLD HILL) 

Heat two cups of sugar and two-thirds a cup of milk to the 
boiling point ; add two squares of chocolate and stir constantly 
until the chocolate is melted. Boil eight minutes; add three 
(level) tablespoonfuls of butter and boil seven minutes; re- 
move from the fire, add one teaspoonful of vanilla and beat 
until the mixture is creamy and sugars around the edge of the 
saucepan. Pour into buttered pans, cool slightly, then mark 
in squares. 

VANILLA SUGAR CANDY 

2 pounds (4 cups) of granulated 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

sugar. I tablespoonful of glycerine. 

2-3 a cup of water. 2 tablespoonfuls of vanilla. 

1-3 a cup of vinegar. 

Boil all, save the vanilla, without stirring (from twenty 
minutes to half an hour), to the hard ball degree; pour on a 
platter, add the vanilla, and when cool pull over a hook, and 
cut into short pieces. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

2 cups of molasses. x tablespoonful of glycerine. 
1 cup of sugar. 1-2 a teaspoonful of soda. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Boil to the hard ball degree; stir in the soda, and when 
cooled pull until white as desired ; draw out into sticks and 
cut into inch lengths. 

MAPLE CREAMS (SADIE LOCKE, MAINE) 

3 cups of maple syrup or i cup of thick, sweet cream. 

I pound of maple sugar, grated. 

Boil the sugar and cream to the soft ball degree ; beat with 
a silver fork until it is of the consistency of very thick cream. 



636 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Pour in buttered tins or tins lined with paraffine paper and 
when cool cut into squares. A cup of nuts may be added, 
when the mixture begins to thicken. Half a cup of butter 
may take the place of the cream. 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

3 cups of brown sugar. t pint of peanuts. 

I cup of New Orleans molasses. 1-4 a pound of butter. 

1-2 a teaspoonful of cream of 2 teaspoonfuls of soda, 

tartar. i cup of water. 

Boil all the ingredients, except the last three, to the hard 
ball stage. Add the peanuts and boil to the hard crack stage ; 
a'dd the butter and when this is incorporated remove from 
the fire and add the soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
water, and stir vigorously. When the mixture begins to 
rise, pour upon a marble or platter and spread thin. When 
cold break or cut in pieces. 

COCOANUT CREAM .CANDY 

Boil two cups of sugar and half a cup of milk, or, better 
still, condensed milk diluted with water, four minutes after 
boiling begins, washing down the sides of the saucepan as 
needed. Add one-fourth a teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
and let boil to "blow" stage, between 230° to 236° F. When 
boiled enough remove from the fire, add two tablespoonfuls 
of grated chocolate, half a pound of grated cocoanut — fresh 
cocoanut is preferable — and a tablespoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract, and stir until thickened slightly. Then drop from 
the end of the spoon on to confectioner's paper. Set a nut 
or a pifc'.*e of candied fruit on the top of each candy 

FIG-AND-NUT CONFECTIONS 

Cut choice pressed figs in halves through the blossom 
ends; sprinkle the inside of each half with thin slices of Eng- 
lish walnuts or pecan nuts; roll up tightly; then roll again 
in powdered or fine granulated sugar. 



SPUN SUGAR 637 

STUFFED RAISINS 
Cut open choice raisins on one side and remove the seeds; 
fill with bits of blanched almonds, English walnuts, ot candied 
cherries; close each raisin thus filled and wrap in another 
seeded raisin. Roll in fine granulated sugar. 

NUT-AND-FRUIT CONFECTIONS 

Chop very fine one pound, each, of figs and English wal- 
nut meats, and half a pound, each, of dates and candied 
cherries. Work with the hands until well mixed. Roll out 
into a thin sheet on a board, well-dredged with confectioner's 
sugar. Shape with a small cutter, then roll in sugar. 

STUFFED PRUNES 

Soak large and perfect prunes in cold water several hours; 
steam until the skins are tender and the stones easily re- 
moved. Take out the stones and fill the open spaces with 
dates, figs or candied fruit, chopped fine with an equal bulk 
of pecan nuts or English walnuts. Press the prunes into 
symmetrical shape, then roll in fine granulated sugar. Let 
stand several days before serving. 

SPUN SUGAR 

Boil one pound of sugar, half a cup of boiling water and 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar to 310° F., or 
the crack stage. Follow the directions given for boiling 
sugar, to make fondant. When cooked set the saucepan 
into a dish of cold water, to arrest further cooking, then 
when cooled a little set into a dish of hot water. Have ready 
wooden supports fastened to the kitchen table — soft wooden 
spatulas answer well; let these project about two feet from 
the table and be about two feet apart. Spread a clean paper 
beneath them. Dip a sugar spinner into the cooked sugar 
and pass it round and round the spatulas; the sugar will 
spin from each point of the spinner in a fine, thread-like 
cobweb round the spatulas. The threads become firm and 
stiff almost instantly. Repeat the dipping and swinging 
of the spinner until a sufficient mass has been formed; then 



638 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

remove and coil into the shape desired; wreaths and nests 
are most common forms. If the sugar be too hot or too cold 
the spinning will be unsatisfactory. When too cold reheat, 
adding a little water and boiling again toward the last of 
the process. In crisp, clear, cold weather spun sugar will 
remain crisp a day or two, but it is better made the day 
on which it is to be use#. 

CARAMELED NUTS 

Boil a cup of sugar and one-fourth a cup of water to the 
hard-crack, or caramel degree. Do not stir after the sugar is 
dissolved. Wash down the grains of sugar thrown up in cook- 
ing as in making fondant. When the proper degree is reached, 
add a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready pecan nuts, 
English walnuts or blanched almonds, heated without brown- 
ing. Drop the nuts, one at a time, into the cooked sugar; 
without stirring the sugar, coat the nut and lift out on to an 
oiled or confectioner's paper. It is necessary to work very 
quickly. Reheat the sugar when needed. When it beconaes 
too thick, add a few drops of water and cook again to the 
correct degree. 

CRYSTALLIZED NUTS 

Boil the sugar to the crack stage, dip as above, then roll 
while hot in coarse granulated sugar. The hard crack degree, 
310 F., is the last stage before the syrup takes color. 

MARRONS GLACES 

Prepare the chestnuts as for compote. Dry the nuts, 
then take them, one by one, on a skewer, and dip into sugar 
and water that has been cooked to 310 degrees. Lay the nuts 
on an oiled paper to cool. Remove the syrup from the fire 
as soon as the thermometer registers the proper number 
of degrees. If it becomes too cold, let stand in hot water. 

CANDIED ORANGE OR LEMON PEEL 

Let the peel, removed in halves or quarters, stand over 
night in salted water. Wash thoroughly. Let boil, changing 



CANDIED VIOLETS 639 

the water several times, until the peel is tender. If the peel 
does not taste salty, the water need not be changed. When 
the peel is tender, remove such parts of the bitter white 
portion as is desired. Leave the sections whole, or cut into 
narrow strips or shreds. Make a syrup of a pint of water 
and a pound of sugar ; skim, and put into it a pound of the 
cooked peel; let simmer until the syrup is nearly absorbed, 
then boil rapidly and' stir until well coated with sugar. Let 
dry in a warming oven, then store in a closed receptacle. 
The strips may be woven into baskets or nests while hot 
and pliable. The nests are particularly pretty, filled with 
three candy eggs, as Easter souvenirs. Crystallized mint 
leaves are a pretty decoration for the nests. 

CANDIED VIOLETS 

Remove the stalks from a pound of violets and rinse them 
in cold water, then spread them on a towel to dry. Cook 
a pound and a quarter of sugar to the soft-ball stage, re- 
move from the fire and add the violets; press them down 
under the syrup, return to the fire and let boil up once, 
then transfer, at once, to a cold dish. The next day drain 
•on a sieve. To the syrup add half a cup of sugar and cook 
again to soft-ball stage; put in the flowers and set aside for 
twelve hours; drain again, heat to the boiling point and 
add the violets. Remove from the fire and stir the violets 
lightly, until the syrup begins to grain, then pour on to sheets 
of paper; shake and separate the flowers carefully with" the 
hands, and, when dry, pick them from the granulated sugar. 
Rose petals and mint leaves may be candied in the same 
manner. Add a cup of water to the sugar when setting it 
over the fire to cook. 



CHAPTER XXVII 
Food for the Sick and Convalescent 

A carefully regulated diet has, in numberless cases, proved one of 
the best, if not the very best, correctives of disease. — Dr. Shepard. 

"All that a man hath will he give for his life." 

Difficult as it is to select a dietary for the well, it is even 
more difficult to decide upon the proper articles of food for the 
sick or the convalescent; for the thought of the housekeeper 
in general is concentrated on feeding the well and not the 
sick. Diet for the sick should be modified by the nature of 
the disease ; hence it needs be under the personal supervision 
of a practitioner who believes in the curative power of diet- 
etics. The physician should know how to cook and prepare 
the food that he orders for his patient ; for a properly trained 
nurse is not always at hand to cook, or superintend the cooking 
of, a patient's meals, and many a housekeeper or " good, plain 
cook" is ignorant of the first principles involved in making 
properly a cup .of gruel or broth, or in toasting a slice of bread. 

It, is not our purpose to repeat here directions or recipes 
that have been given, in other parts of this volume, for "what 
will make a sick man well, will also keep him well," but to 
refer simply to some dishes that may be safely used to supply 
nutrition under certain circumstances or conditions of health. 
A patient recovering from illness is often in so weak and pre- 
carious a condition that the slightest indiscretion in diet may 
put ofEthe day of recovery weeks, even, if it do not prove fatal. 

When a new dish is allowed by the attending physician, 
only a small service or portion should be given at first, and the 
effects should be carefully noted ; for nowhere are thought and 
judgment more needed than in selecting food for the sick, or 

640 



THE SERVICE 641 

for young children, and in the feeding of both the same rules 
are to be observed. 

REGULARITY IN FEEDING 

It has come to be well known that medicines are to be 
given at stated intervals ; it is just as essential to present food 
at stated periods. Regularity in feeding is conducive to 
welfare of both sick and well. "The stomach is a good ser- 
vant: let his hours of repose be unbroken. " 

THE SERVICE 

Those who are fastidious in respect to food while well are 
doubly so when ill, and the china and other accessories should 
be of the choicest at hand. Scrupulous cleanliness should be 
observed in the minutest particulars. Food should never be 
tasted in the presence of an invalid, and he should feel beyond 
suspicion that the fork or spoon presented him has not been 
negligently handled. The patient who insisted that she be 
allowed with her own hand to throw into a common receptacle 
all broths, gruels, etc., left in the cups simply wished to assure 
herself against the return of those items after they had been 
left standing uncovered. 

The fundamental principles involved in feeding the sick 
have been tersely expressed by one skilled in the medicinal art 
as follows: 

I St. The avoidance of all articles that disagree with the 
existing condition of the patient. 

2nd. The giving of the food best adapted to relieve the 
digestive organs of unnecessary labor and at the same time 
maintain nutrition.- 

3rd. For certain special diseases there are classes of food 
that possess distinctly curative value, as fresh fruits and vege- 
tables for scurvy, fats and oils in tuberculosis, and pineapple 
juice in catarrhal affections of throat and alimentary canal. 

An example of the first principle, viz.: avoidance of all 
articles that disagree with existing conditions, is seen in the 
dietary prescribed for diabetic patients. We know that the 
carbohydrate principle in food is by the process of digestion 
changed into sugar, that a part of this sugar goes at once into 



642 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the circulation and a part is stored in the liver for future use as 
glycogen. In cases of diabetes all the carbohydrates taken as 
food are eliminated by the kidneys as grape sugar or glucose, 
oftentimes in the space of twenty-four hourj. This elimina- 
tion is accompanied by distressing symptons. Under these con- 
ditions the carbohydrates are gradually eliminated from the 
dietary, and to make up for this deficiency the quantity of pro- 
teid, principally the quantity of fat, needs be increased. 
In severe cases, sugar is made out of proteid, but it is not 
formed in such quantity as occurs when starch is contained 
in the dietary. Bread, being largely starch, is prohibited, 
as are also vegetables grown underground. As fat, measured 
by the amount of heat liberated during its oxidation, has a 
high nutritive value, a smaller quantity, comparatively, is 
needed to make up the deficiency than would be the case if 
the deficiency were made up from proteid. But the problem 
is to present the fat in a pleasing form. A physician and 
specialist on diabetes, in lecturing on the food of diabetics, 
alluded to the following ways in which butter could be pre- 
sented and which in practice had been fpund acceptable: 
Four ounces of butter is often thought to be needed each day, 
to insure the proper amount of nutriment. Thin slices of 
cheese, spread generously with butter, were used instead of 
bread. A piece of butter was put into a cup and hot coffee 
poured over it ; the coffee was sipped while quite hot. Butter 
was used profusely on all cooked vegetables that were allowed, 
as spinach, string beans, beet-to^5, celery and okra. Bacon 
is a desirable addition to all sorts of dishes. 

The number of vegetables without starch in composition 
being rather limited, it is advisable to present the vegetables 
in large quantity, one at a meal, to avoid the patients tiring 
of them. Proteid food being highly concentrated, vegetables 
need be used freely to secure waste and successful elimination. 
Saccharine is put into cranberries at the close of the cooking, 
to make them less sour. When cream is allowed, ice cream 
may be prepared with saccharine in the place of sugar. 

Eggs are one of the main dependencies of the diabetic; as 
many as six are required in a day. These may be taken in egg 



SECOND PRINCIPLE 643 

nog (sweetened with saccharine), in coffee, or cooked by any 
recipe in which starch or sugar is not used. The whites of 
two eggs, beaten and mixed with a glass of cold water and, if 
allowed, flavored with lemon juice, are good for diabetics 
and, also, in most conditions, where nourishment in an easily 
digested form is demanded. 

"More is to be done for asthmatic patients on the side of 
the stomach than in any other direction, " for errors in diet 
are liable to precipitate an attack. A cup of very hot water 
is of advantage, if taken an hour before each meal and again 
at night. No water should be taken with the meals, or until 
at least three hours after. As the attacks of the disease are 
usually worse at night, the principal meal should be eaten at 
midday, and the supper be made light. Fats and sweets 
should be omitted, as also pork, veal, cheese, and rich desserts. 
If starchy food be eaten, it needs be thoroughly cooked and 
masticated, to insure complete salivary digestion. Thompson 
gives the following as a sample for advanced cases : Breakfast : 
bread and milk, or well-cooked oatmeal porridge or wheaten 
grits, without sugar. Dinner (not later than 2 p. m.) : beef or 
mutton, bread, one or two green or succulent vegetables, 
such as spinach, stewed celery, stewed or raw tomatoes. 
Blanc mange or custard (not sweetened) or a little rice pud- 
ding. Fresh fruit in season, as a peach or baked apple. Sup- 
per (6 p. M.): a soft-cooked egg or a little cold fowl or game, 
stale bread, toast, zweiback, mHk, stewed fruit (without 
sugar). Moderation and punctuality in eating are first essen- 
tials. 

IN CHRONIC RHEUMATISM 

"The basis of the diet should be farinaceous food with a 
few fresh green vegetables. Fish, eggs, and fowl may be 
eaten; but dark meat is not desirable. Sweets and alcoholic 
beverages should be omitted from the menu, and all foods 
should be plainly cooked and eaten in moderation. " 
SECOND PRINCIPLE 

The giving of food best adapted to relieve the digestive 
organs of unnecessary labor while maintaining nutrition. 



644 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

The old adage was "feed a cold and starve a fever." In 
place of the 3,500 calories in the average, normal dietary, a 
fever patient was reduced to a dietary supplying but 400 
calories. It was not until 1882 that it was conclusively proven 
that fever, patients could digest food just as well as other 
patients. Fever oxidizes proteid matter. A patient fed on 
milk or beef juice rich in the proteid principle saves the tissues 
of his body by so much, though enough food can not be in- 
gested to replace all the proteid matter oxidized by the fever, 
hence the emaciation even in patients who are fed the most 
successfully. 

TYPHOID FEVER 

The seat of typhoid fever is iii the small intestine, and all 
food that is given needs be such as is principally digested in 
the stomach and leaves but little waste, thus relieving the 
intestine. If stomach digestion in any fever can be carried 
on fairly well, the loss of bodily weight is proportionately 
checked. In an ulcerated condition of the intestine, liquid 
is less liable than solid food to cause disturbance. 'Milk or 
broths are largely digested in the stomach, and milk espe- 
cially provides nutriment ; these then are the foods indicated 
in fevers. Clear soups, consomm^ and thin gruels of rice, oat- 
meal or barley, from which all solid material has been carefully 
removed by straining through a double fold of cheesecloth, 
,may also be used. If these latter be used alone, tissue waste 
will be noticeable in a few days at the most, as they do not 
contain sufficient protein to make up for the oxidation of 
proteid from the system; but with these combined with 
gelatine, white of egg and broths the patient will do well. 
To illustrate, note that a- cup of bouillon supplies but sixteen 
calories of heat, while an egg furnishes seventy-five calories. 

THIRD PRINCIPLE 

FOODS POSSESSING CURATIVE VALUE FOR SPECIAL 
DISEASES 

Scurvy is less common than formerly. This is owing, in 
a measure, to increased facilities of preserving and trans- 
porting food, whereby 'a more varied dietary is secured. It 




.3 




CHICKEN SOUP WITH BREAD STICKS. (See page 200.) 




JUNKET WITH APPLE, CHERRIES, ETC. (See page 56S.) 




SCUFFLED ECG. (See Poached Egg, Hygienic Fashion, page 70.) 



RECEIPES 64s 

should be remembered, however, that canned and dried foods 
have lost some of their life-giving properties. 

When young children are afflicted with scurvy, it is usually 
found that their dietary has been too closely confined to 
proprietary foods, sterilized milk, evaporated cream, etc. 

Olive oil, butter, cream and bacon fat, indicated in tubercu- 
losis, m.ay be given in countless appetizing ways; the main 
thing to determine is in what forms these may be presented 
to be most readily assimilated by the individual patient. 
(Note the ways of giving butter in diabetes.) Butter be- 
comes a liquid at the temperature of the body and may be 
absorbed almost at once on entering the intestine. 

In cases of malaria and all catarrhal affections of the throat 
and alimentary canal, fresh pineapple juice acts as a germicide, 
though the cooked juice loses this power to a large extent, if 
not entirely. 

The first requisite in the diet of both the sick and the well 
is pure water; if disease be present, pure water, taken- alone 
and in sufficient quantity, will do much towards washing it 
from the system. Except is special diseases, the proportion 
of carbohydrate and proteid food in general remains the 
same in sickness as in health, though^ after ^ wasting disease 
tissue-building rather than force-producing food would be 
indicated. This is the time also for gelatinoids or "proteid 
savers." Of this group gelatine in various forms is the mosf 
available. 

Diet for the very sick is similar to that of a young infant — 
i. e., milk or liquid food. To be easily digested, give milk in 
tekspoonfuls, thus avoiding large curds If diluted the curd; 
will be softer and more easily broken up. Dilute with rice 
or barley water, or with water gruel. 

RECIPES 
BARLEY WATER. (USED ALONE OR IN DILUTING MILK) 

Put three teaspoo'nfuls of pearl barley over the fire in cold 
water; let heat to the boiling point and boil five minutes, then 
drain, rinse in cold water and add one quart of water; let. 
come to the boiling point, then simmer until reduced to about 



646 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

three cups of liquid. Or cook one teaspoonful of barley flour, 
diluted with cold water to pour, in a pint of boiling water twenty 
minutes. This may be sweetened and flavored when required. 

RICE WATEFi. (USED ALONE OR IN DILUTING MILK) 

Blanch two tablespoonfuls of rice ; add a quart of water and 
let simmer very gently an hour; strain and use as directed. 

FLAXSEED TEA 
Blanch two tablespoonfuls of flaxseed; add one quart of 
boiling water and let boil one or two hours; strain and add 
lemon juice and sugar. 

CURRANT AND TAMARIND WATER 

Currant jelly, dissolved in hot water, or tamarinds, steeped 
in hot water an hour and the liquid strained, either with or 
without the addition of lemon juice, are often prized as bev- 
erages in the sick room. Lemon juice may be taken, when 
the oil from the rind would occasion flatulency or other un- 
pleasant manifestations. 

TOAST WATER OR BREAD COFFEE 

Put slices of bread, cut one-fourth an inch thick, in a slack 
oven to dry until crisp and a golden brown. Break in pieces, 
add an equal measure of boiling water and let stand about 
an hour. Strain through a piece of cheesecloth. Serve hot 
or cold, with or without sugar and cream. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE 

Pick over one-fourth a cup of Irish moss and let stand half 
an hour or more in cold water to cover; drain the water from 
the moss, add a pint of fresh water and let cook twenty minutes 
in a double-boiler, then strain. To half a cup of the liquid add 
the juice of a lemon and sugar to' taste. This drink may 
also be made of sea moss farine. Sprinkle half a teaspoonful 
of farine into a quart of cold water and stir until the liquid 
thickens, and then, occasionally, for half an hour. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

Stir a cup of oatmeal into two quarts of boiling salted 
water; cook three hours in a'double-boiler, then strain through 



BEEF ESSENCE 647 

a piece of coarse cheesecloth. To half a cup of gruel add 
half a cup of thin cream and about one pint of boiling water; 
sugar may also be added. Prepare other gruels in the same 
way. 

WHEAT FLOUR AND CORN MEAL GRUEL 

Sift together two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful of corn meal and half a teaspoonful of salt ; mix to a thin 
batter with about one-fourth a cup of water or milk arid stir 
into a quart of boiling water or scalded milk; let cook in the 
water an hour and in the milk (over hot water) three hours. 
Serve hot, diluting with cream or rich milk. Gruel may also 
be made of arrowroot, farina, rice-fiour, barley flour or tapi- 
oca "exotique"; beaten yolk or white of egg may be added 
to any gruel just as it is removed from the fire. 

BROILED BEEF JUICE 

Wipe with a damp cloth and remove all visible fat from a 
piece of steak, cut nearly an inch thick, from the top of the 
round. Broil over a clear bed of coals three or four minutes, 
turning each ten seconds. Cut in pieces, about an inch and 
a half square, and gash two or three times on each side. Press 
out the juice with a meat press or a hot lemon squeezer and 
turn into a hot cup. Season with salt and serve hot. 

BEEF ESSENCE 

Cut beef, prepared as before, into small pieces ; set these in 
a wide-mouthed bottle, securely corked, or in a fruit jar, 
closely covered, on a heavy fold of paper, or on a trivet in a 
kettle of water; heat the water gradually to the boiling point 
and let stand several hours, then pour off the essence-. 

BEEF ESSENCE 

Chop fine one ounce of fresh beef, freed from fat, and pour 
over it one cup of soft water; add five or six drops of ^iluted 
hydrochloric acid and a few grains of common salt, stir it well, 
and leave for three hours in a cool place. Pass the liquid 
through a piece of cheesecloth, pressing the meat slightly and 
rinsing it with one-fourth a cup of cold water. Serve cold, a 



648 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

teaspoonful at a time ; or heat in a closed vessel over hot water 
and then serve. 

BEEF TEA 

Chop fine half a pound of. raw lean beef, cover with one pint 
of cold water and let stand in an earthen dish in a cool place 
for some' hours. Cook over the fire, stirring constantly, until 
vapor begins to rise, then remove from the, fire. Strain 
through a cheesecloth, pressing the liquid from the meat. 
Season with salt. The liquid should not be heated above 1 60°, 
but between that and 140° F. The albuminous juices do not 
coagulate and settle to the bottom of the cup, but are held in 
suspension throughout the liquid, as when cooked at a 
higher temperature. 

BEEF TEA 

Let a pound of fine-chopped beef stand an hour in an earthen 
vessel, covered with a pint of cold water; set into a dish of 
water over the fire, or in the oven, keeping the water in the 
outside disji at simmering temperature, one hour. The meat 
should not be exposed to a temperature of more than 170 F. 

BEEF TEA 

Cut two and a half pounds of beef from the top of the round 
into half -inch pieces; put into a white-lined saucepan, cover 
with pounded ice to the depth of an inch and a half and let 
stand, covered, about two hours. Put the saucepan over the 
fire, let heat nearly to the boiling point, then pass through a 
fine strainer. 

CHICKEN, VEAL OR MUTTON BROTH 

For chicken broth, add the crushed bones with the meat. 
For veal broth, use the fleshy part of the knuckle. Use a 
pint of water to a pound of meat, cook in a fruit jar or double 
boiler about four hours, or let simmer directly over the fire 
two hours and add water, if needed, to secure a pint of liquid 
to a pound of meat. The nutritive value may be increased 
by the addition of pearl barley, rice, vermicelli or tapioca. 
The barley requires long cooking after being soaked over 
night. 



ALMOND MILK SOUP 649 

CHICKEN, MUTTON OR VEAL BROTH 

Chop fine a pound of chicken, mutton or veal free of fat; 
add a pint of water and let stand on ice two or three hours. 
Then cook three hours over a slow fire, strain, cool, remove 
fat, add salt and serve hot or cold. 

SCOTCH BEEF BROTH 

To a pint of strained-and-seasoned beef broth, from which 

all fat has been removed, add two teaspoonfuls of oatmeal 

and cook over hot water two hours. Strain and serve hot. 

The broth should have a delicate, jelly-like consistency. 

MUTTON BROTH 

(UNITED STATES ARMY HOSPITAL RECIPE FOR TWELVE 

MEN) 

Mutton, six pounds; salt, two ounces; rice, two ounces. 

Directions: — Break the bones without separating the meat. 
Put it into twelve pints of cold water, with the salt and rice or 
barley. Simmer gently two hours and a half, carefully remov- 
ing all the scum and fat. At the expiration of the time, if neces- 
sary, add water to secure twelve pints of broth and let simmer 
fifteen minutes longer; add the salt towards the last of the 
cooking. 

CLAM AND CHICKEN FRAPPE. (BOSTON COOKING 
SCHOOL) 

Wash and scrub two quarts of clams'. Put in a saucepau 
with half a cup of cold water, cover closely and let steam until 
the shells are well opened. Remove the clams from the shells 
and strain all the liquor through a cheesecloth. To one^cup 
and two-thirds of the liquor add two and one-half cups of 
highly seasoned chicken stock and salt if needed. Cool and 
freeze to a mush. Serve in cups with whipped cream above. 
ALMOND MILK SOUP 

Blanch half a pound of sweet and ten bitter almonds ; pound 
them in a mortar, moistening, from time to time, with milk, 
using in all one pint ; when pounded to a smooth paste press 
through a piece of fine cheesecloth. Scald three cups of 
milk with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and half a teaspoonful 
of salt; stir in the almond milk and continue to stir until 
heated. Serve with croutons. 



6so PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

LEMON, VINEGAR OR WINE WHEY 

Heat a pint of milk to the boiling point ; add the juice of half 
a lemon freed from seeds ; let the milk again come to the boil- 
ing point ; then, without pressure, strain the whey through a 
cheesecloth. Half a cup of wine (sherry or a white wine), 
a tablespoonful of vinegar, or one-fourth an ounce of cream-of- 
tartar, may take the place of the lemon juice. Whey has no 
value as an aliment, but it is useful as a beverage in febrile 
diseases', because it promotes perspiration and possesses 
diuretic properties. 

PEPTONIZED MILK. (COLD PROCESS) 

Into a clean quart bottle or jar put five grains (one-fourth 
a teaspoonful) of extractum pancreatin, powdered, one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of soda, and half a cup of cold water; shake 
thoroughly, then add a' pint of fresh, cool milk; shake again 
and put directly upon the ice. This milk may be used in any 
dish where milk is called for. After using milk from the bottle 
return the bottle at once to the ice, or the peptonizing process 
will be continued. 

PEPTONIZED MILK. NO. 2 

Prepare the milk as before ; then place the bottle in water at 
about 115° Fahr. (the hand can be held in water of this tem- 
perature without discomfort). Keep the bottle in the water 
ten minutes, then put at once on ice. The bottle should come 
in direct contact with the ice. In some preparations of 
pancreatin, as Fairchild's, the proper proportions of pancreatin 
and soda for a pint of milk come mixed together in a tube. 

The taste of milk, peptonized (*. e., partially digested) by 
the ' ' cold process, ' ' is unchanged. Milk so treated is especially 
suitable for persons who ordinarily find milk indigestible. 
If the stomach is unable to retain properly and assimilate 
milk prepared by this process, the milk should be heated and 
the process of digestion carried on still further, as by the 
second method. After the milk has been properly peptonized 
by the second process, it may be scalded, and thus the process 
of peptonization is checked ; in this case it may be kept simply 
in a cool place, ice being unnecessary. 



SOUFFLED EGG 651 



SAVORY CUSTARD 

Beat the yolks of two or three eggs ; add a few grains of salt, 
a dash of pepper, if permissible, and a cup of beef tea, or broth 
of any kind; strain into a buttered cup and poach in a dish of 
hot water until the custard is set. Serve hot or cold in the 
cup. 

EGG AND GRUEL OR CAUDLE 

Beat an egg to a froth ; have ready a cup of smooth and very 
hot gruel and stir this into the egg; add from one-fourth to 
one-half a cup of sherry, a teaspoonful of sugar and grated 
nutmeg,, one or all as is desired. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD 

Fill a buttered custard cup lightly with stale breadcrumbs 

(centre of loaf) and fine-chopped breast of chicken. Beat a 

whole egg, or the yolks of two ; add a few grains of celery salt 

and half a cup or more of milk. Poach as any custard. 

Serve hot. 

BEEF TEA CUSTARD 

Beat the yolks of three eggs slightly; add a few grains of 
salt and, very gradually, a cup of hot beef tea; cook in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until the mixture thickens ; then pass 
through a fine sieve. Serve hot or cold in a custard cup. If 
permissible the beef tea may be flavored with celery or pars- 
ley. 

SOUFFLED EGG 

This dish when properly prepared is a delicate, dainty mor- 
sel. An egg so cooked is often more easily digested than 
when poached au naturel, inasmuch as the air incorporated 
into the white separates the cells of albumen and enables the 
digestive fluids to penetrate the mass without hindrance. 
(For recipe, see "Poached Egg, Hygienic Fashion.") An 
egg thus cooked, and served in a tumbler, presents an attrac- 
tive appearance most desirable in the sick room. The lowet 
part of a small double boiler, in which a trivet is set, affords 
a practical means of cooking. In the absence of a trivet, one 



6s2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

may be improvised by driving a nail repeatedly through the 
cover of a pound size baking-powder box. Thus the water 
may pass beneath the glass. Set the glass in place, while the 
water is lukewarm, and when the white begins to expand with 
the heat and rise, drop in the yolk; both are cooked, at least, as 
soon as the water boils. The less the egg is cooked the more 
easily it will be digested. 

EGG NOGG 

Beat the yolk of an egg; add one or two teaspoonfuls of 
sugar and, when mixed with the egg, a tablespoonful of sherry 
or brandy; mix again, then add, gradually, a cup of milk, and, 
lastly, fold in the white of the egg beaten stiff. 

EGG AND WINE 

Beat an egg to a froth; add one or two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and beat again. Heat half a cup of cold water and one- 
fourth a cup of sherry wine, until vapor rises, then pour over 
the egg and sugar, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water 
until slightly thickened. Serve in a glass, hot or cold. 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

Cut stale bread into slices one-fourth an inch thick; put 
two slices together, remove the crusts and cut into such shape 
as desired. Keep the pairs together, spread these with butter, 
then with the pulp of meat, scraped from the fibre and sea- 
soned with salt, and press the pairs together. In scraping the 
beef, scrape the pulp from one side and then turn and scrape 
the pulp from the fibres on the other side. 

BROILED RAW BEEF CAKES 

Season raw beef pulp, prepared as above, with salt and 
shape into small flat cakes of uniform thickness throughout. 
Broil in a well-oiled oyster broiler about four minutes, turning 
every ten seconds. Season with salt and spread with butter. 

TENDERLOIN STEAK WITH BEEF JUICE 

Have a piece of steak cut an inch and a half thick from the 
middle of the tenderloin lying under the rump. This is tender 
meat, but lacking in juiciness and flavor. Put into a well- 



EGG JUNKET, WHIPPED CREAM 653 

oiled broiler with nearly half a pound of round steak. Broil 
in the usual manner about ten minutes; place the tenderloin 
on a hot plate, dust lightly with salt and, with a hot lemon- 
squeezer or meat press, express the juice from the round steak 
over it. Garnish with cress or parsley and serve at once. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN IN ASPIC JELLY 

Remove the fillets from the breast of a young and tender 
chicken (see page 170). After the tendon is removed from 
the small fillets and all are of the same thickness, wrap the 
fillets securely in pieces of well-buttered writing paper, and 
broil over a moderate fire, turning very often, to avoid burning 
the paper. Cool under a weight and mould in aspic jelly (see 
page 273). 

BROILED SQUABS 

See that the squabs are carefully dressed and singed (split 
them down the backbone and dress as a chicken for broiling), 
wipe carefully and broil in a well-oiled double broiler; season 
lightly with salt, also pepper and butter if agreeable. Serve 
on a slice of toast. Garnish with a slice or two of orange 
and a stem of watercress. 

SEA MOSS FARINE BLANC-MANGE 

I tablespoonful of sea moss farine. 1-2 a cup of sugar. 

I quart of milk. The juice of a lemon. 

Stir the farine into the milk and sugar; let heat gradually 
(over hot water), stirring meanwhile. When the mixture 
thickens slightly, discontinue stirring, except occasionally, 
and let cook about half an hour. Add the lemon juice or not, 
as desired. Turn into small moulds. Serve cold with boiled 
custard, currant jelly, or cream and, sugar. 

EGG JUNKET, WHIPPED CREAM 

Separate the whites from the yolks of two eggs, beat the 
whites until dry and the yolks until thick ; gradually add the 
yolks to the whites, beating constantly. Heat one pint of 
milk until lukewarm, about 98° Fahr., dissolve in this one- 
fourth a cup of sugar, add half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract 



6s4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and pour over the beaten eggs ; stir in a teaspoonful of liquid 
rennet, or half a junket tablet, dissolved in two teaspoonfuls of 
-Gold water, and turn into sherbet glasses. Let stand in a 
warm place about half an hour or until firm, then chill. Serve 
with a tablespoonful of whipped cream, sweetened and fla- 
vored, on the top of each glass. 

PLAIN JUNKET WITH WINE 

Heat a pint of rich milk to ioo° Fahr., and stir in half a 
junket tablet, crushed and dissolved in half a tablespoonful of 
cold water, one^third a cup, or less, of sugar and two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy, or four of sherry or madeira; turn into 
' glasses and let stand undisturbed until set. Serve thoroughly 
chilled. When fat is called for, add half a cup of cream to a 
pint of milk and proceed as before. 

SPONGE RUSKS 

Bake sponge cake mixture in a pan of such size as to secure 
a sheet of cake half an inch thick when baked. When the 
cake is cold, cut into strips three inches wide, and these into 
short strips about an inch' wide. Toast the latter or brown 
in the oven upon one side, then toast or brown on the other 
side. 

Fruit jellies, Bavarian creams, custards, sherbets and cream 
ices are all useful (under supervision) in the dietary of the 
sick and convalescent. Directions for the preparation of these 
dishes, as well as of clear soups, cream soups, toast, etc., 
which are also desirable, will be found under the headings 
of the various chapters. In cases of acute disease, or in the 
early stages of recovery from such diseases, fat is often not 
easily assimilated, and hence no droplet of fat should be left 
floating upon a cup of broth. When butter is allowed upon 
toast, vegetables, or broiled meat, external heat should not be 
applied, the heat in the article should be sufficient to melt the 
butter. Eggs poached in cream or consomm^, with or with- 
out toast, are usually relished in the sick room. Ice cold 
foods, as cream ice, often prove most acceptable to an invalid 
suffering from fever or inflammation, when no other form of 



SPONGE RUSKS 655 

nourishment cai^ be tolerated. At such times flavoring ex- 
tracts, or zests of lemon or orange, should not be used; nor 
should the mixture be made as sweet as in the recipes given 
under ices. Pure cream, not too heavy, with simply from 
half to three-fou,rths a cup of sugar to the quart, produces a 
good cream. A plain boiled custard made of the yolks of 
three eggs and two tablespoonfuls (always level) of , sugar to 
a pint of milk is also good. In either case a cup of whipped 
cream, beaten into the frozen mixture, adds lightness and rich- 
ness, when the latter is desirable. This is one of the first 
articles of food prescribed by physicians to patients who are 
recovering from severe attacks of cholera morbus. 



PART III. 
CHAPTER I. 

Marketing, Care of Food and Cooking 

Utensils 

There are two ways of marketing in vogue, both of which 
have ardent advocates. By. the one, and this is largely .prac- 
ticed by the women of Mexico and France, the housekeeper 
buys just what is needed for the day, no more,, no less, and 
when night comes her store room is as bare as that of the 
historic Mother Hubbard on a certain occasion. The other 
might be called the American way, though it follows pretty 
closely the fashion set by our English cousins. A house- 
keeper, who believes in this way of marketing, buys her 
provisions almost at wholesale — that is, sugar and flour by 
the barrel, butter by the firkin, and canned goods by the 
dozen. 

The Mexican woman brings home her food supplies, of 
all kinds for the day, in a small gourd cup holding less than 
a quart. The French woman buys the wings and perhaps 
the second joints of a fowl. The English or American woman, 
of the same class, would be unwilling to ask for ,less than a 
pair of fowl, and very likely would add a ham or a pickled 
tongue. Without doubt, the former -is the more economical 
method of procedure; still there is a satisfaction in the 
consciousness that one's larder is supplied for an emergency, 
which will compensate for the extra outlay, if that outlay 
be commensurate with one's income. But the purchase of 
supplies for a family, if it be wisely done, whether the family 
be large or small, is no very simple matter. It cannot be 
prescribed for every class and condition of housewives. But, 
whether one buy by wholesale or after the French fashion, 

656 




FAMILY BREAKFAST TABLE. 




FAMILY LUNCHEON TABLE. 
No maid in attendance. 



SUPPLIES 6s7 

serve yourself, if you would be well served. Go in person 
and see what you purchase. 

SUPPLIES THAT MAY BE BOUGHT IN QUANTITY 

White flour may be bought by the barrel, if one has a 
cool, dry place for its storage. The barrel should not rest 
directly upon the floor, but be raised from it by strong sup- 
ports, so that there may be a circulation of air below as well 
as upon the sides and top. Entire wheat flour does not keep 
well and needs be bought a little at a time. Potatoes keep 
well and are lower in price, before they have been stored. 
With refrigerator and ice, butter and meats can be well 
taken care of and, besides, the meat be much improved by 
the keeping. A loin of beef o'r a side of mutton is a profitable 
investment in the average family. Serve the forequarter 
of mutton, "boiled" or steamed, first, as meat thus cooked 
needs be fresher than when it is roasted. The leg may be 
kept ''till the last. If one has no facilities for taking care 
of meat, she can, sometimes, purchase the side or loin of 
the dealer, and he will keep it, cutting and sending as or- 
dered; but one, probably, will pay extra for such attention. 
At some markets, when a loin of beef is purchased, the 
dealer will remove the flank. If this "part can be utilized, 
the rule of economy is subserved. The flank may be made 
into Hamburg steak or cannelon of beef, or it may be kept 
a few days and then salted, thus being preserved for future 
use. 

The fillet spoils very quickly and should be served first. 
It may be roasted, braised, or cut in slices and broiled. Being 
deficient in flavor, it is usually larded; if braised the flavor 
of vegetables is added, and, if broiled, it is quite often served ' 
with a mushroom sauce. Cut the rest of the loin into steaks 
and roasts. Do not roast meat the day it comes from the 
market, unless you are sure that it has been kept long enough 
to be tender. Do not waste needful force in trying to digest 
tough roasts. One better purchase less expensive meat, 
chop in the meat chopper, fashion into compact roll and 
then roast en masse: 



6s8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BACON 

A crisp, translucent curl of bacon gives relish to many a 
dish; buy only the best; tough bacon, unless the fat cooked 
from it be used in basting roasts, is a total loss. In many 
sections of the country, particularly in Canada, sides of 
tender, mild-cured bacon may be procured. Every slice 
of the " Deerfoot Farm " bacon, put up in one and two-pound 
boxes, may be depended upon as being tender and of good 
quaUty. 

MILK 

Though milk does not sour as quickly in winter as during 
the hot weather, it should receive just as much care. When- 
ever it is possible, keep milk in a separate compartment of 
the refrigerator and never leave it uncovered. There is noth- 
ing gained by paying extra for milk of assured cleanliness, 
or that has been pasteurized, if it be left standing uncovered. 
Nor should milk or any food supply, even if covered, be 
left in the hot kitchen an hour or two. And especially no 
cooked food should be left uncovered. To the strong and 
robust such food may not occasion sickness, but a delicate 
ohild or an invalid will scarcely escape ill results from par- 
taking of the same, and it is no longer palatable to any one. 

FOOD IN SEASON 

As a rule, when food is most cheap and plentiful, it is at 
its best; out of season, it is expensive and lacking in flavor 
and quality. In the early spring the provident housekeeper 
will make use, to a great extent, of vegetables and fruits 
which are seasonable throughout the year, together with 
such dried and canned articles as she has found most whole- 
some and palatable, ever bearing in mind how "all things 
come to him who will but wait." The following table shows 
when certain vegetables, fish and game are seasonable. 

FISH IN MARKET ALL THE YEAR 
Cod, halibut, haddock, flounder, hard clams, hard 
crabs, sea bass and lobsters (the latter are best from Decem- 
ber to April). 



VEGETABLES IN SEASON , 659 

VEGETABLES AND FRUIT ALL THE YEAR 

Artichokes (imported), beets (new in April), cabbage (new 
in August), carrots (new in May), cauliflower (new in August, 
in New England and Middle West), mushrooms (cultivated), 
onions (home grown, July to June, Bermuda, from January 
iSth to July isth), peppers (January to June, South), po- 
tatoes (South, April; Long Island, July ist; Bermuda, 
January isth to July), sweet (August to May), lettuce (hot 
beds) garden (in June), water cress, spinach, tomatoes (March 
ist, South; July to October, garden; November to March, 
hothouse), turnips (new from June to September), bananas, 
cocoanuts, lemons, oranges (Florida, November to March, best 
November and February), from Italy and Sicily, shipped 
largely in December and January. 

FISH IN SEASON 
Lake bass, from June to January; bluefish. May to Nov- 
ember; bonito, June to November; mackerel, April to Oc- 
tober; Spanish mackerel, April isth to October isth; perch, 
September to June; pickerel, June to January; pompano. 
May to August, and November isth to Jan. ist; red snapper, 
October to April; salmon, Kennebec, June to October; Ore- 
gon, October to Jane; shad and roe, Charleston, January, 
Norfolk (Va.), February, New York, April ist, Boston, 
April 30th; smelts, August isth to April; brook trout, April 
to September; whitebait, May to April; oysters, September 
to May; scallops, September to April; shrimps, March isth 
to June ist, and September isth to October isth. 

VEGETABLES IN SEASON 

Jerusalem artichokes, October ist to May ist; asparagus, 
hot house, January to February isth; garden, May to July; 
string beans, garden, June to October; South and hothouse, 
all the year; Lima beans, August to October; dried, all the 
year; Brussels sprouts, November isth to March iSth; 
com, July to September; cranberries, October to May; 
cucumbers, garden, July to October; hothouse, all the 
year; oyster plant and parsnips, August to June; peas. South, 



66o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

January to July, Long Island, July to November; pumpkins, 
September to February; radishes. May to November, hot 
house, all the year; rhubarb, February to July, garden, 
April; celery, August to April; chicory, July to April; dan- 
delion, hot house, December to June; summer squash, July 
to October; winter squash, September to April. 

FRUIT IN SEASON 

Apples, August to May, all the year, cold storage; apricots, 
July 1 5 to August 1 5 ; barberries, October to November 1 5 ; 
blackberries, July i to August 15; cherries. May ist to July 
15; chestnuts, October to March; currants, July to August 15; 
figs, new crop October, all the year except midsummer ; goose- 
berries, July; grapes, July to August; grape fruit, October to 
July; huckleberries, June 15 to September; melons, July to 
October; peaches, July to October; pears, July 15 to March; 
plums, July to October; quinces, September to December; 
raspberries, June to September; strawberries, garden, April 
to August, hothouse, January to March. 

GAME 

Duck, of all kinds, September to May; reed birds, Septem- 
ber to January; rice birds, September to April; grouse, part- 
ridge and woodcock, August 15 to February ist; pheasants, 
October to February; rabbits, November to January; squabs, 
September to January; squirrel, August to February; wild 
turkey, November to May ; quail, stall fed, all the year, wild, 
November -to February; plovers and snipe, September to 
January. 

POULTRY, ETC. 

Beef, all the year, best, November to March ; mutton, all the 
year, best, November to April ; veal, all the year, best April 
and May; lamb, house, December 2 5 to July, yearling, best, 
August to November; pork, best, October to March; turkey, 
and fowl, best, October to March ; chickens to broil, August, 
incubator, all the year ; pigeons and squabs, stall fed, all the 
year; ducklings. May to December; domestic duck and geese, 
September to May. 



CARE OF REFRIGERATORvS 661 



COOKING APPLIANCES AND CARE OF SAME 

To prepare three meals a day in a family of five or six mem- 
bers requires the constant attendance in the kitchen of at 
least one person, and often several people are occupied there. 
Even in a small family the kitchen is a much used room. 
Hence in the kitchen plenty of light and good ventilation are of 
utmost importance. The health of the family depends both 
directly and indirectly upon these conditions. That food ab- 
sorbs odors and germs, not only in storage but also while cook- 
ing and cooling after cooking, should not be ignored. Then, 
first of all, let us have a light, roomy and well-ventilated 
kitchen. 

In every kitchen furnished with a coal range there should 
be some means of quick cooking; this will be found economical 
in point of money and time. Indeed, where the coal range is 
not needed for heating as well as cooking, a range that affords 
quicker service is demanded. At the present time, in all large 
towns and cities, the gas range is available ; this in use should 
be provided with a hood or flue connected with the chimney, 
to remove products of combustion. Experience suggests 
many devices in the use of a gas range, and there are ap- 
pliances by which the quantity of gas consumed may be di- 
minished. 

The tile-lined ovens used in foreign lands are washed after 
the cooking of each article, to insure against the absorption 
of flavor by the next dish that is to occupy the oven, a sug- 
gestion that is worthy of notice. In planning a kitchen, a 
place for the refrigerator should be selected with care; its 
drain pipe ought not to be connected directly with the sewer. 
If possible, let the compartment for ice open on a piazza or, at 
least, out of doors. The refrigerator should be easy of access 
to the cook, for fine cooking demands many trips between 
the cooking table and ice receptacle. 

CARE OF REFRIGERATOR 

Three things are essential to the proper care and use of a 
refrigerator: cleaning the waste pipes, instant removal of any- 



662 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

thing spilled, and a full supply of ice. If the compartments 
in which food is kept be wiped out carefully once a week, no 
crumbs, drops of liquid, or particles of food being left to 
accumulate meanwhile, these will need no other attention. 
Once a v/eek let the ice supply run low, then remove the ice, 
wash the floor under the rack upon which the ice rests, take 
out trap and removable drain pipe and, with a cloth fastened 
to a rod or wire, clean out these with a strong solution of 
sal-soda. Pour the same down the remainder of the waste 
pipe, making sure that the pipe is cleaned as far down as it 
can be reached. Keep the ice compartment filled with ice. 
A large body of ice keeps better than a small one, and in- 
sures better circulation of air. Keep the doors closed. Set 
milk in closed bottles or in a compartment by itself. 

COOKING UTENSILS 

It is a positive pleasure to the workman in any calling, to 
own and use good and appropriate tools. The truly good 
cook takes scrupulous care of her cooking utensils, and comes 
to have a real fondness for certain dishes. The supply of 
utensils should, however, only equal the demand, for all the 
good things in this world are of value to us only in so far as 
we can make a valid use of them. 

The heavy ironware and the more expensive copper uten- 
sils, recipients of endless polish, are now improved upon, 
save, perhaps, in point of durability and for some special uses. 
There is agate ware, and a light blue ware, white inside (im- 
ported), also a light-weight steel ware and aluminoid warf — 
these afford ample variety for choice, and, with careful usage, 
the vessels may be kept in good condition for years. All may 
be washed, inside and out, with soapy water, rinsed in boiling 
water and carefuUy dried with a towel. If more drying be 
required, let stand on the shelf of the range. The agate and 
German wares "chip" badly under strong, dry heat. Fill 
all cooking dishes with water immediately after use. Sapolio, 
"kitchen and hand " soap and sal-soda will remove stains 
that adhere — except in the case of aluminoid ware. Alkalies 
like baking soda and sal-soda tarnish aluminoid. Also the 



COOKING UTENSILS • 663 

highly polished exterior of aluminoid utensils scratches easily, 
and for repolishing these a paste made of sifted whiting and 
soapy water is more satisfactory. Rub over the surfaces 
with the paste, let dry, then polish with a clean, soft cloth. 

Old linty dish-cloths and coffee grounds, in conjunction 
with grease, occasion most of the calls for the plumber as far 
as the kitchen sink is concerned, and are a source to him of no 
inconsiderable revenue yearly. A fine sieve should first 
receive all waste water in its passage through the sink. New 
cloth should always be taken for dish-cloths and, as soon as 
signs of wear appear, these may be utilized in wiping out 
greasy dishes, then in kindling the fire. Add dissolved soap 
or sal-soda (ammonia or caustic soda are better because 
stronger) to greasy watec; these form emulsions (soaps) with 
the fats which pass through the pipes. Three or four times 
a week flush the drain with a boiling solution of sal-soda, 
using half a cup of sal-soda to three quart? of water. 

Many housekeepers seem to think that, if the tableware be 
carefully washed, other dishes will do without much attention. 
This is an extremely erroneous idea. Every dish in which 
food is to be placed should receive scrupulous attention. 
Smooth clean dishes are always a chief requisite in good cook- 
ing, and in sauce-making they are absolutely a sine qua non. 
A sauce is used to give richness and flavor to that which is 
without these- desirable elements. If the dish be not sweet 
and clean, or if it be rough, so that the sauce bums, or "catches 
on," as we say, at any point, those are the flavors carried by 
the sauce; for butter absorbs odors and flavors most per- 
sistently. Nor will any amount of outside flavor, that may 
be added, cover up those that have been, as it were, burned 
into the foundation of the sauce. No particle of matter re- 
mains long unchanged. Bacteria are ever at work, and if 
we do not wish to introduce undesirable elements into bread, 
cake, etc., dishes with painstaking care must be made ready 
to receive the ingredients that enter into the composition of 
these dishes. 



CHAPTER II 
Office of Food in the Body 

"Old men bear want of food best; then those that are adults; 
youths bear it least, most especially children, and of them the most 
lively are the least capable of enduring it." — Hippocrates. 

Foods or food principles (Chapter I, Part I) supply us 
with means to carry on the work of the body — i.e., the different 
processes incident to the existence of a living, thinking being 
and the work carried on outside of the body, or "productive 
work. " 

It is estimated that about one-third of the energy con- 
tained in the food we assimilate can be utilized in productive 
work, the other two-thirds are needed internally in carrying 
on the processes of life. The several food principles serve tbe 
body in different ways. Take the two great principles, pro- 
tein and carbohydrate ; study their composition and the reason 
for this is obvious. All food contains carbon; oxygen taken in 
through the lungs unites with carbon, a chemical change 
results, heat and energy are produced, and carbon dioxide, a 
waste product, is formed. Without a supply of oxygen the 
carbon could not be burned and the life's process would cease. 
Carbon, slowly oxidized in the body, gives off just as much heat 
and supplies just as much force as in case it were burned out- 
side the body. 

Of the carbohydrates, fats and oils (often called hydrocar- 
bons) have greater fuel value than starch. The chemical 
elements are the same in all, but in starch the proportions 
are six — or a multiple of six — parts of carbon to hydrogen 
9,nd oxygen in the proportions found in water, viz. : two parts 
hydrogen to one of oxygen. In fats and oils, the relative pro- 
portion of the oxygen is much smaller, and the combustion of 
these calls for a greater quantity of oxygen from the air and, 

664, 



OFFICE OF FOOD IN THE BODY 665 

in consequence, a greater amount of heat and muscular power 
is evolved. The body also changes the carbohydrates of food 
into fat. This fat and that stored directly from the fat in 
food are kept in the body as a reserve supply of fuel for use in 
times of need. 

The proteids also contain carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, 
but they contain as well an element not found in the carbo- 
hydrates, nitrogen. Oxygen from the air unites with the 
nitrogen in the food to form compounds which build and 
repair bodily tissues. This, then, is the primal office of the 
proteids, and it cannot be relegated to foods from the group, 
carbohydrates. The gelatinoids are useful in promoting nutri- 
tion and save the waste of the real tissue builders. They do 
not, however, build tissue. Broth of meat to which nothing 
is adde'd is not a tissue builder. 

Of course, if the best fuel be not provided,' the system can 
utilize proteid to produce heat and energy, but it is not the 
part of wisdom or economy to call upon the more expensive 
foods, which contain this element, to do the work that may 
be quite as satisfactorily done by the cheaper carbohydrates ; 
for health itself depends upon securing the right proportions 
of these principles. 

Not all of the food taken into the system is made use of and 
assimilated. A part passes away as waste matter. The kid- 
neys are the organs whose office is to eliminate this waste from 
nitrogenous or proteid foods, and if these be overtaxed dis- 
orders of serious nature follow. The evil results of a diet 
deficient in proteid, during the period of growth, are often 
even more marked. As a rule, the rich are in poor health 
because food rich in this principle is ingested too freely, while 
the children of the middle classes and the poor are warped 
and stunted mentally and physically for lack of material 
suitable to proper growth. An adult can get along very well 
if a meal once in a while does not come up in all respects to 
the required standard. He has fat stored in tissues which 
can be called upon in time of need and burned or oxidized in 
place of food. Not so in the case of a young and growing 
child. Too often lean and tall, he has little r^erve force, 



666 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



and needs the full complement of food at each of his three or 
four meals per day. When he reaches the age of about twelve 
or thirteen, the factor of flavor comes in; and too much care 
cannot be exercised in selecting palatable dishes. 

OFFICE OF FOOD PRINCIPLES OR NUTRIENTS IN THE 

BODY 

Protein, as white (albumen) 

of eggs, curd (casein) of 

milk, lean meat, gluten 

of wheat and grains and 

other vegetable proteid 

(formerly called legumen) 
Fats, as fat of meat, but- 
ter, olive oil and other 

vegetable oils 
Carbohydrates, as sugar, 

starch, etc. 



> Forms' tissue 



Mineral matters, as phos- 
phates of lime, soda, etc. 



Are stored in body 
as fat 

Are transformed 

into fat 
Share in forming 

bone, assist in 

digestion 



All act as fuel, 
yielding energy 
in the form of 
heat and mus- 
cular power. 



The most common proteids are white of eggs, lean meat, 
the casein of milk, the gluten of wheat, and the proteid of 
vegetables (found in peas, beans, and lentils). The protein 
of vegetables is less easily and completely digested than that of 
meat, and though most useful it is not quite so valuable as 
the more easily assimilated aninial food. Chloride of sodium 
(common salt) and lime, both important elements in the for- 
mation of, teeth and bone, and in maintenance of the integrity 
of the system, are largely found in fresh fruits, vegetables arid 
grains. Often the supply of fresh fruit and vegetables is 
limited during the winter season, and in the spring the system 
calls for elements that have been wanting. True, common 
salt has been supplied in the food, and lime may have been 
given, but these crude substances are not identical with the 
lime and salt contained in fruit, vegetables ancj grains. Here 
these substances have been organized and fitted for appro- 
priation by animal life, while in an unorganized state they 
tend to disturb digestion. The evidence is strong that com- 



OFFICE OF FOOD IN THE BODY 667 

mon salt, in excess, may cause kidney disorders, leading even 
to Bright's disease. In making out dietaries, the first thing 
to determine is the part which a food must perform for the 
individuals in question. Are they building or only repairing 
tissue? Are. they active or sluggish? Is the temperature in 
which they live warm or cold ? The foregoing summary of 
this chapter, on page 666, is largely adapted from a schedule 
by Professor Atwater. 



CHAPTER III 

Referring to a Well-Balanced Menu or 
Dietary 

"A meal — what is it? Just enough of food to renovate and well 
refresh the frame, so that, with spirits lightened and with strength 
renewed, we turn with willingness to work again." 

In the chapter on Hospitality, reference is made to what 
may be called, for want of a better term, menus of inheritance, 
but in these later days frequent mention is made of a "well- 
balanced menu," and a word on this subject may not be 
amiss. The remark is common that the importance of diet to 
health is just now beginning to receive attention, but this is 
not strictly true. The old philosophers wrote on this subject 
and understood its import, but the condition of the times did 
not lead them to treat the matter after the scientific spirit of 
these later days. Whatever of accurate knowledge we pos- 
sess of this and kindred subjects is due primarily to the inves- 
tigations of the Germans. The German Government, by 
generous expenditure of money, made it possible for some of 
the brightest minds in the land to devote themselves to the 
task, and the universities provided a place for carrying out the 
necessary experiments. Then our own Government took up 
the matter, and, for the past fifteen years, Professor Atwater 
and his colleagues have been working along similar lines of 
effort and in the same scientific spirit. But neither the old 
philosophers, the scientific Germans, nor our own country- 
men, have ever been able to formulate a dietary that can be 
said to be "constant. " For feeding is an individual matter; 
and while dietaries, worked out in the laboratory, are helpful 
in a general way, each housekeeper must of necessity work 
out these problems independently, since the needs of no two 
families, of no two individuals, even, in the same family are 

668 



MEASURES OF NUTRITIVE VALUE 669 

exactly alike. Indeed, the proper dietary for one individual 
is a "variable equation, " for each day he is a day older. 

And, besides, the individual housekeeper has neither the 
kind of training, the proper appliances, nor the requisite time, 
to enter into original investigation. Availing herself, how- 
ever, of the figures and deductions of trained scientists, she 
may formulate dietaries for her family that shall, in the quan- 
tity and relative proportion of the difEerent food principles, 
approximate very nearly to what may be called the standard 
or laboratory requirements. The desire to do this, seconded 
by an attempt, is a long step in the right direction. 

In studying formulas that have been worked out in the 
laboratory for different classes and ages of individuals, we 
need keep in mind two things; (ist) that these dietaries do not 
take into consideration personal idiosyncrasies of digestion, 
assimilation, and excretion; (2d) that the food value of the 
same nutrients varies, and that its conservation depends 
in large measure upon the skill of the cook. 

MEASURE OF NUTRITIVE VALUE 

The nutritive value of any given food stijfl is measured by 
the amount of heat liberated during its oxidation into those 
chemical combinations in which it is to leave the organism. 

The unit of measure is the calorie, which is equivalent to 
the amount of heat necessary to raise one kilogram of water 
one degree centigrade, or what is nearly the same thing, one 
pound of water 4° Fahr. 

Taking our common food materials as they are used in ordi- 
nary diet, the following general estimate has been made of 
the energy funrished to the body by one gram, or one pound, 
of each of the classes of nutrients. 

Protein, fuel value, 4 calories per gram, or 1,820 calories per lb. 
Fats, fuel value, 8.9 calories per gram, or 4,040 calories per lb. 
Carbohydrates, fuel value. 4 calories per gram, or 1,820 calories 
per lb. (Atwater). . 

It will be seen that the fuel value, or capacity for yielding 
heat and mechanical p9wer, of a pound of protein of lean 
meat, or albumen of egg, is just about equivalent to a pound 



670 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of starch, or sugar (carbohydrate), and a little over two 
pounds of either would be required to equal a pound of the 
fat of meat or butter. It is evident, then, that the fuel value 
of ifood depends upon the amount of actual nutrients, and 
especially upon the amount of fat, it contains. 

Atwater estimates "that an average man, at moderately 
active labor, like a carpenter or mason, should have about 115 
grams or 0.25 pound of available protein and sufficient fuel 
ingredients, in addition, to make the fuel value of the whole 
(day's) diet 3.400 calories; while a man at sedentary em- 
ployment would be well nourished with 92 grams or 0.20 
pound of available protein and enough fats and carbohy- 
drates, in addition, to yield 2.700 calories of energy. 

In calculating dietaries it is considered that the food of a 
woman, or a boy from fourteen to sixteen years of age in- 
clusive, should provide 0.8 the fuel value of a man's food at 
moderate muscular labor; a girl fourteen to sixteen years of 
age requires 0.7, a child ten to thirteen, 0.6, a child six to 
nine, 0.5, a child two to five, 0.4, respectively, in fuel value of 
the food of a man at moderate muscular labor. 

In making dietary studies for a week or more, begin with a 
certain quantity of food products, the weight of which is 
known, add to this the weight of all articles purchased during 
the period, then, when the "study" is completed, deduct the 
weight of all articles remaining on hand. The difference 
gives the weight of the articles used. Deduct from each 
article the weight of refuse left upon the plates, and the 
amounts actually consumed will be known. Then by the use of 
the tables showing the composition of the several articles, the 
fuel value of the protein, fat and carbohydrate in each 
article may be determined. A simple example in addition 
will give the fuel value of each nutrient (food principle) for 
the week. These figures will demonstrate whether the week's 
food has been "properly balanced" and show wherein the 
deficiency or excess lies. 

In actual practice, this work may be shortened and simpli- 
fied, as the tables given at the head of the respective chapters 



SAMPLE MENU FOR FAMILY OF SIX 671 

in this book give the fuel value of a pound of each fopd stuff, 
and this quantity multiplied by the number- of pounds con- 
sumed gives the total fuel value of both protein and carbo- 
hydrate. Then, when the quantity of protein has been deter- 
mined, the solution is simple. To illustrate, menus have been 
worked out below for a family qf six for one day. The manner 
of determining the amount of protein and the fuel value of one 
or two articles will suffice for all. 

In the breakfast menu, boiled eggs are given: eight eggs 
weigh one pound; by consulting the chapter on eggs, it will 
be found that 13.1% of a pound of eggs is protein, that is, the 
decimal .131 represents the protein in the eggs. The fuel 
value is given as 635 calories. 

Take mashed potatoes in the dinner menu (see table in 
chapter on Vegetables), the protein in potatoes is given at 
2.5% and the fuel value as 440 calories per pound respectively. 
Thirty-seven thousandths and 660 represent the value of the . 
protein and the fuel value of a pound and a half of potatoes. 
The protein in butter is too sm^U in quantity to consider, the 
high percentage of the fat gives a fuel value of 3,605 calories 
to a pound. An ounce yields one sixteenth of this or 225 
calories. Six ounces of milk is three-eighths of a pound, three- 
eighths of 3.3 (protein) and 325 (fuel value) gives .012 andi2o 
as the quantity of protein and calories of fuel in the milk. By 
adding the figures in the columns representing the protein 
and calories of fuel value, the amount consumed by the family 
and the calories released in energy is determined; dividing 
by four gives the proportion for one man. 

SAMPLE MENU FOR FAMILY OF SIX 

Man at moderate muscular labor, woman, two girls, 12 and 
6 ; two boys, i o and 8 years of age. This family (see page 672) 
requires the same number of calories of heat and potential 
energy as four men at moderate muscular labor — ^i. e. : 

Man Woman Girl Boy Girl Boy 
i.o + .08 -I- .06 + .06 + .05 -f .05 = 4 



672 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BREAKFAST 

Weight 
lbs. oz 

Oranges 2 

Oatmml: 

Oatmeal 4 

Milk 6 

Sugar 2 

Boiled eggs (8) i o 

Com cake (no eggs) i 4 

Butter 4 

Coffee: 

Sugar 2 

Milk 6 

Total 

DINNER 

Broiled beefsteak, lean. . , 2 

Mashed Potatoes: 

Potatoes 

Butter 

Milk 

Spinach 

Butter 

Bread 

Butter 

Baked Apple Tapioca Pudding: 

Apples 

Tapioca 

Sugar 

Cream 

Total 

SUPPER 
Creamed Codfish: 

Salt codfish 8 

Milk I 

Butter I 

Flour I 

One egg 2 



Fuel 
Protein Value 
Pounds Calories 



.012 

.042 
.012 

•131 
. 106 



.001 
.012 



300 

46 s 
120 

63s 

1.438 

880 

120 







.316 


4.428 


2 




.342 


1.57° 


I 


8 


■037 


660 




I 




22s 




3 


.006 


60 


I 


4 


.027 


138 




I 




22S 




12 


.071 


910 




4 




900 


, I 




.004 


2SS 




4 


.001 


412 




4 




47° 




4 


.006 


228 



• 494 6o,S3 



128 


24S 


033 


32s 




22s 


007 


103 


016 


78 




LUNCHEON TABLE, CENTREPIECE OF SWEET PEAS. 




LUNCHEON TABLE WITH FRINGED DOILIES. 



SAMPLE MENU FOR FAMILY OF SIX 673 



Fuel 

■WTeight Protein value 

lbs. oz. Pounds Calories 

Baked Potatoes: i .025 440 

Butter 4 poo 

Biscuit 1 .084 1,430 

Tea: 

Milk and sugar .012 353 

Total . 305 4,099 

Protein Calories 

Total for one day 1-055 14.588 

Total for one man .278 3,647 

Standard estimate, Atwater 25 3,400 

Both the amount of protein and the number of calories of 
energy are in excess of the standard. This gives an oppor- 
tunity to study the menu more critically, though the excess 
in this menu in connection with other menus day after day, 
would probably be overbalanced before many days. For it 
is to be considered that, in periods of a week or ten days, the 
diet is more likely to approach the standard than when a single 
day is taken into account. By omitting the cream with the 
pudding at dinner, the total for one man becomes .26 of pro- 
tein and 3,590 calories. Reduce the number of eggs in the 
breakfast menu to four and use these with coolied rice in an 
omelet, and the figures (counting the biitter used in cooking 
and the rice) become .25 of protein and 3,623 calories. 



CHAPTER IV, 
The Physiology of Digestion 

"Preserve and treat food as you would your body, remembering 
that in time food will be your body." 

Food ingested to supply the solid waste of the body is taken 
from the external world; and this food needs contain all the 
elements of the body, the principal of which are carbon, hy- 
drogen, nitrogen, iron, etc. These, except oxygen, cannot be 
taken into the body as elements, but need be presented in 
combination, as albumen, starch, sugar. These are called 
the food principles. Plants live upon elements (that is, 
plants cannot take care of complex substances), and, in the 
process of assimilation and growth, they unite or fashion the 
elements into food principles. Mankind takes these more 
complex structures and, by the processes of cooking and 
digestion, changes them into soluble and diffusible matter, 
which may be assimilated and made a part of human flesh and 
blood. 

In making out bills-of-fare, it is quite necessary to consider, 
not only the office which each food principle performs in the 
body, but also various points relative to the subject of diges- 
tion. 

The digestive process is both mechanical and chemical; and 
for present purpose it has to do with mastication, insalivation, 
gastric and intestinal digestion. 

MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 

On being taken into the mouth, solid food comes under the 
mechanical action of the teeth, by which it is cut, crushed, 
and ground, or finely divided, at the same time it is becoming 
mixed with the mucus and saliva from the glands of the 
mouth. The action of the teeth and mucus is purely mechani- 
cal, but that of the saliva is chemical. The ptyalin of the 

674 



PANCREATIC JUICE 67^ 

saliva is a ferment, and in an alkaline media it changes starch 
into dextrin and maltose (malt sugar). The importance of 
thorough mastication and insalivation becomes obvious, when 
we consider that the digestion of starch is not continued — 
except possibly for a few moments after the food first enters 
the stomach and before it is permeated by the acid of the 
gastric juice — until it meets the pancreatic juice in the small 
intestine. The latter is secreted by the pancreas, sometimes 
called the abdominal salivary gland. This juice is poured 
into the process most freely two or three hours after a meal, 
or at about the time that stomach digestion ceases. For, 
though starch is not digested in the stomach, it remains there 
and passes on at the same time with other food to the small 
intestine. 

PANCREATIC JUICE AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION 

Pancreatic juice contains several ferments: (i) Amylopsin, 
resembling the ptyalin of the saliva, which finishes the diges- 
tion of starch that had been begun in the mouth by the 
ptyalin; (2) trypsin, a ferment like pepsin, capable of con- 
verting proteids into peptones; (3) a milk-curdling ferment, 
like rennet; (4) steapsin, capablie of decorqposing fats into 
fatty acids and glycerin; possibly, also, a fifth ferment that 
emulsifies the fats, dividing them into smaller and smaller 
droplets, until they can be taken up by the cells lining the 
intestines and so pass into the blood. The blood deposits 
them between the bundles of muscle ready for use when 
needed. 

STARCH AND ACID OR TEA NOT A PROPER FOOD 
COMBINATION 

Neither ptyalin nor amylopsin can act in an acid media. 
This indicates that starch and acids do not form a suitable 
food combination. Tea, probably, by its astringent property, 
arrests the activity of both the salivary glands and the pan- 
creas. As the secretions from these organs are the only 
agencies in the system by which starch is digested, tea and 
starchy food evidently do not form a hygienic combination. 
It follows, then, that the proper time for tea-drinking is not 
until the food has left the stomach : then it may be taken as a 



676 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

stimulant. Neither ptyalin nor amylopsin is developed in 
children until the teeth begin to appear: hence it were wise to 
give no starchy food to children until after the first year, 
except that which has been converted into dextrin or maltose 
outside the body. 

The starch in a piece of bread, properly toasted, and in the 
crust of a loaf, properly baked, are easily digested, because 
the starch has been changed to dextrin and, being dry and 
hard, they cannot be swallowed until masticated for some 
time, thus insuring the digestive action of the ptyalin and the 
change into maltose. By the law of opposites this explains 
why fresh bread, which of itself is no more indigestible than 
stale bread, is considered unwholesome and indigestible. If 
mastication be but continued long enough, fresh and stale 
bread are equally digestible. 

STOMACH, OR GASTRIC, DIGESTION 

The stomach is lined with mucous membrane, filled with 
countless glands and ducts. These microscopic organs both 
secrete and absorb fluids. The gastric glands secrete the 
gastric juice. Like the salivary glands, these are excited to 
activity by the presence of food, in this case, in the stomach. 
The gastric juice contains the ferments, pepsin and rennin, 
and free hydrochloric acid. The rennin curdles milk and the 
pepsin acts upon proteid matters and, in conjunction with 
hydrochloric acid, dissolves and converts them into albumose 
and finally into peptone. Peptone, compared with albumen 
in its first estate, is very diffusible and passes at once into the 
blood-vessels of the stomach. 

RESULTS OF GASTRIC DIGESTION 

The results of gastric digestion may be summed up as fol- 
lows: Proteids are changed into albumose, then into pep- 
tone. Fats are liberated by solution of the cell walls. Starch 
is not affected. Sugar is partly changed into dextrose and 
partly into lactic acid. During the process all soluble matter 
— i. e., water, soluble salts, and peptones — are being absorbed 
by the walls of the stomach, and the rest of the proteids. 



INTESTINAL DIGESTION , 677 

together with the fats and starches and the greater bulk of 
the sugars, pass into the upper bowel, or small intestine. 

CONDITIONS NECESSARY TO SECURE PROPER STOMACH 

DIGESTION 

1 . The careful subdivision and insalivation of the food by 
mastication. 

This condition is necessary for proteid food, in order that 
the stomach may not be called upon for too vigorous action 
in changing proteid into a semi-fluid mass, and for starch, to 
insure the change into dextrin and sweet substances that may 
be affected by the gastric juices. 

2. The proper temperature of the food,, which should be 
about ioQ° Fahrenheit. 

3. The ingestion of a sufficient quantity of liquid, and no 
more, when added to the digestive fluids, to insure the con- 
version of the food into a semi-fluid mass, or, in other words, 
the avoidance of "washing down" the food with either hot 
or cold liquids. 

4. Freedom from violent exercise half an hour before and 
after meals. 

5. No eating between meals and no irregularity in the 
meal-time. 

On account of its muscular structure, the stomach, in a".- 
cordance with the laws of the muscular system, requires, 
periodic rest. 

6. The flow of the digestive fluids is largely dependent 
upon cheerful atmosphere and conversation at meal-times. 

INTESTINAL DIGESTION, CONTINUED 

Besides the pancreatic juice, before referred to, bile from 
the liver and the intestinal juice itself are active in carrying 
on the digestive process in the small intestine: absorption 
takes place chiefly here. This is made possible by the finger- 
hke projections, called villi, into which the inner surface of the 
intestine is thrown. These projections dip into the fluid mass 
of food, absorbing digestible materials, peptones, fats, etc., 
which are carried, thus, into the blood and lymphatic vessels. 



678 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

EFFECTS OF UNSUITABLE FOOD 

When the mucous surface af the membrane is irritated by 
improper food, the glands become over-excited and pour out 
a large quantity of fluid, and diarrhoea may result. If the 
irritation be ' continued, the glands become exhausted and 
unable to act, and dryness, causing constipation, results. In 
the absence of all irritating food, less juice is secreted and con- 
stipation follows. In selecting a dietary, enough waste or 
indigestible matter needs be provided, to insure a moderate 
flow of intestinal juice, otherwise the bowels will not be kept 
open. 

One who understands the process of digestion thoroughly 
is often able, when occasion requires, to regulate his diet to 
nicety. For instance, in cases of hyper-acidity of the stomach, 
if this be caused by over-activity of the gastric glands, the 
larger use of fats, in some form, which tend to depress such 
secretion, would be indicated. As a rule, the ingestion of a 
food principle incites the flow of the fluids that digest it; and, 
if too much of any fluid be secreted, other principles might 
be substituted, until such time as the digestive equilibrium 
can be maintained. 

We have said that bread and tea were not a good dietetic 
combination. Butter, however, is an aid to the digestion of 
bread. Fats are digested in the intestine, where they stimu- 
late the secretion of the pancreatic juice. Here, also, may be 
digested whatever starch — bread is largely starch — has 
escaped the ptyalin of the saliva ; and the presence of the fat 
(butter) insures sufficient activity of the pancreas to digest 
the starch. 

Starch and fat in the form of pastry is quite another matter, 
though even here thorough mastication is a precautionary 
measure. In pastry, the starch granules are enveloped in 
fat, which is not affected by the ptyalin. The fat keeps the 
ptyalin from the starch and the latter is not changed in any 
manner, until it comes into contact with the amylopsin of 
the pancreatic juice. At this point the fat, by stimulating this 
secretion, aids in the digestion of the pastry as a whole. 



CHAPTER V. 
Suggestions on Garnishing and Serving 

" Dainty ways of serving food have a usefulness beyond their 
ffisthetic value. Every one knows that a feeble appetite is often 
tempted by a tastefully garnished dish, virhen the same material care- 
lessly served would seem quite unpalatable. Furthermore, many 
cheap articles and ' left overs ' when well seasoned and attractively 
served may be just as appetising as dearer ones, and will usually be 
foimd quite as nutritious." — W. O. Atwater, Ph. D. 

A DISH is garnished for two reasons. The garnish is either 
to make the dish more attractive to the eye, as when a sprig 
of parsley and shoe of lemon is laid upon a chop or bit of fish ; 
or, to add to the food value and at the same time to the looks 
of the dish, as when macaroni in tomato sauce surrounds a 
dish of tenderloin cutlets. In garnishing a dish, two things 
must be kept in mind: the garnish must be appropriate 
to the article served, and it must be so disposed as not to 
interfere with the service. One-third of the serving-dishes 
should be left clear even of the garnish. Edible articles are 
more appropriate than are those which are used simply for 
looks. Utility is a prime consideration. As a rule sweets are 
not used with savory dishes ; an exception is made of candied 
and maraschino cherries, preserved whole currants, or straw- 
berries, and small pieces of sweet pickle. These are occa- 
sionally seen in a wreath of parsley or watercress surrounding 
a roast of beef or mutton, broiled chickens or birds. Four or 
five cherries accompany each portion. Pistachio nuts are 
also used for both sweet and savory dishes. Flat croquettes 
of chicken or sweetbread are particularly adapted to decora- 
tion with this nut. The use of full-blown roses, buds or 
petals is confined to sweet dishes, while nasturtium leaves, 
blossoms and tendrils are appropriate for meats, salads, etc. 

679 



68o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Parsley is preferred with fish, and cress with beef and 
mutton. 

Toast in any form is out of place on the same dish with 
potatoes, or shapes, cut from puff paste. Bread for toast 
garnish should be cut before toasting. Triangles, pyramids, 
diamonds, cutlet shapes, cubes and cases are the usual forms. 
Variety can be given these by the use of toasters with wires 
differently arranged, or by dipping the edges or a portion of 
the toast in fine-chopped parsley. These are used principally 
with creamed dishes or dishes served in connection with a 
sauce. 

Julienne, Saratoga, or French fried potatoes look and taste 
well with croquettes, cutlets, steaks and chops and do not pre- 
clude the use of a slice of lemon and a few sprigs of cress. 

Potato or pea "roses" are very attractive with almost any 
meat or fish dish. Diamonds of mashed or duchess potato, 
with a spoonful of peas in cream sauce in the centre (see page 
291), are a favorite with baked fillets of fish. Their use, 
however, necessitates disposing the fish sauce in a dish apart. 

Garnishes made from hard-boiled eggs are numerous. These 
may be cut in quarters, or eighths.lengthwise, in rings or in half 
rings ; or the whites may be chopped fine and the yolks sifted. 
The pointed end may be cut off and the white, from which 
the yolk is removed, fastened with liquid gelatine to the 
pointed end resting on a plate, and these vases niay be filled 
with capers or mayonnaise dressing. The white and yolks, 
beaten and poached, separately, may be cut in thin slices, 
from which various figures may be stamped. As a border to 
enclose a salad, the ends of lengthwise eighths of egg may 
be cut to stand evenly and fastened to the plate with liquid 
gelatine, to form a crown. 

Aspic jelly, cut in cubes or diamonds, or made fine with a 
fork and pushed through a forcing bag and tube, garnishes 
cold meat, chaudfroids, etc. > 

Figures, cut from slices of pickled beet and laid upon slices 
of lemon, give a suggestion of color often desirable. The 
same effect is secured with radishes cut in various ways without 
removal of the outer skin. 



GARNISHES FOR ROAST MUTTON 6Si 

Slices of lemon, with rind complete or notched, dipped into 
fine-chopped parsley, make a change from the plain slice. 
Fine-chopped parsley is always effective, sprinkled on potato 
balls or the top of a dish of creamed or mashed potato. The 
edge of timbale cases (pastry) used for creamed dishes, espe- 
cially of fish or oysters, when dipped in beaten white of egg 
and then in chopped parsley, present an especially festive ap-. 
pearance. In addition to the garnishes above enumerated, 
the following for ^special dishes deserve mention. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST CHICKEN, TURKEY AND 
ENTREES 
Celery leaves, lettuce, cut in ribbons, barberries and leaves; 
fried oysters, singly or in groups with or without green leaves; 
blanched chestnuts, glazed, alternating with sausage cakes, 
(k la Reyniere) ; blanched chestnuts, glazed, altefnating with 
small sausage links, grouped in threes; mushroom forcemeat 
balls; celery, mushroom or chestnut croquettes; mushroom 
or chestnut purde. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST DUCK 
Olives, plain, or stoned and stuffed, black currant jelly in 
rice or hominy croustades. Half slices of orange (with skin) 
and endive leaves. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST GOOSE 
Broiled sausage," gooseberry sauce, apple and barberry jelly, 
cooked rings of apple, centres filled with jelly. 
GARNISHES FOR QUAIL 
Squares of fried mush, cubes of currant jelly above. 

GARNISHES FOR CANVASBACK DUCK, REDHEAD DUCK, 

ETC. 

Serve broiled or roasted wild birds of any kind on slices 
of toast or croutons spread with the mp,shed liver, seasoned 
with salt and pepper, onion juice amd butter, and moistened 
with the dripping from which all fat has been taken. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON OR 
VENISON 
Turnip cups, cooked and glazed and filled with peas mixed 
with Bemaise Sauce; rice cups holding currant jelly;, rings of 



682 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

tart apple, cooked in syrup or in currant jelly reduced with 
syrup, fried bananas. 

Garnishes for soups are given in the chapter on Soups; 
celery and olives are passed with soup. 

No more than two varieties of vegetables should accom- 
pany a course ; if another be desired, serve with a choice sauce, 
as an entree after the roast. Tomatoes with mayonnaise 
dressing appear at dinner as an entree. 

VEGETABLES SERVED WITH FISH 

Potatoes, tomatoes, or peas cooked in any manner de- 
sired, or tomatoes and cucumbers uncooked, may be served 
with fish; also onions, drained and refreshed several times 
while cooking and covered with a cream sauce, are served with 
fish. If the fish be served with a sauce, the vegetables, 
onions excepted,^ should be served without a sauce, as, po- 
tatoes, plain boiled, French-fried, baked, croquettes, balls, etc. 

VEGETABLES SERVED WITH ROAST BEEF 

With roast beef the favorite methods of serving potatoes 
are Franconia or baked with the beef, escalloped, mashed, or 
mashed and browned. Other vegetables that may accom- 
pany the roast are cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, new beets, 
beet greens, spinach, salsify, tomatoes, onions, squash, white 
turnips, green corn, peas, and beans of all kinds, and rice, 
hominy, farina or macaroni. 

Beefsteak, mutton or lamb chops are accompanied by 
sweet or white potatoes in any form, fresh-cooked or warmed 
over, or by any of the vegetables served with roast beef. 
Asparagus is often served with meat, but it is more appropri- 
ately served as a course by itself. 

With stewed or braised beef, potatoes, turnips, parsnips, 
carrots, tomatoes, peas, beans or vegetables k la jardiniere 
are served. 

With corned beef serve boiled potatoes (sweet or white), 
turnips, cabbage, beets, carrots, beet tops, spinach, dande- 
lions, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, and parsnips. 

Boiled mutton or lamb may be accompanied by boiled 



VEGETABLES SERVED WITH ROAST BEEF 683 

potatoes, turnips, salsify, onions, carrots, cauliflower, Brus- 
sels sprouts, spinach or green beans. 

Roast mutton calls for santie vegetables as roast beef, and 
also red-currant jelly and baked or fried bananas. 

With roast lamb, potatoes, green peas, beans, spinach, 
summer squash, white turnips, and asparagus — if this latter be 
not desired as a separate course — are served. 

With veal, roast or braised, choose white turnips, spinach, 
beet tops, young beets, peas, beans, dandelions, or escalloped 
cabbage. 

Roast pork calls for potatoes (white or sweet), squash, 
onions, turnips, parsnips, spinach, salsify, or cauliflower, 
and apple sauce. 

Serve with poultry, roasted or boiled, potatoes (white or 
sweet), turnips, celery, cooked or uncooked, onions, Brussels 
sprouts, cauliflower, sqiiash, mushrooms, green com, peas 
and beans, rice, and cranberry sauce. Asparagus accom- 
panies broiled spring chicken. 

With game, the vegetables are usually prepared in a some- 
what elaborate manner. The vegetable considered the vege- 
table par excellence is celery, which may be served plain, 
stewed in cream sauce, braised with a brown sauce, or as a 
salad. Other vegetables are white potatoes in croquettes, 
or balls', sweet potatoes, glazed, tomatoes, broiled, or in a 
salad, cauliflower au gratin, spinach a la creme, or peas. 
Olives and black-currant jelly are passed with duck; currant 
jelly, with venison ; and fried hominy, with grouse and duck. 

Use only silver implements (silver fish slice, spoon or fork) 
in serving fish not protected with a covering of egg and crumbs. 



CHAPTER VI. 
Hospitality and the Etiquette of Entertaining 

"He must leave the omniscience of business at the door when he 
comes into the palace of beauty." 

At the beginning of the Christian era, hospitality was en- 
joined as a sacred duty. Timothy enumerates among the 
attributes of a bishop that he "must be a lover of hospitality." 
The laity also are exhorted by him to "use hospitality one to 
another without grudging." In those days, when inns did 
not abound, and the traveler could not readily procure food 
and shelter, an indiscriminate entertaining of guests. must 
have been oftentimes a tax on courtesy. 

But, as times changed, invitations began to precede and 
become warrant for the acceptance of hospitality; and the 
old time duty was gradually transformed into a flattering 
expression of personal favor. For trust and confidence in one 
who has been invited into the presence of your lares are im- 
plied. 

Eating is a chief and natural concern of life. It is, more- 
over, a pleasure; and she who charges herself with the enter- 
tainment of a guest becomes responsible, in a measure at 
least, for his temporary comfort and happiness. Like all 
other pleasures, that of the table is increased as it is shared; 
yet those who are bidden to break bread together should be 
congenial spirits. There needs be some common ground upon 
which all can meet. It is Montaigne who says that a man 
is not so much to regard what he eats as with whom he eats; 
and he commends Chilo "that he would not engage himself 
to be at Periander's feast till he first was informed who Were 
to be the other guests." The sequence is natural; for, when 
one entertains another, and eats and drinks with more de- 
liberation than is customary; — hygienic considerations to the 

684 



HOSPITALITY 685 

contrary — ^the hour needs be filled with "good discourse and 
pleasant talk. " This it is that best gives relish to a feast. 

Having bidden, then, congenial company to meet at her 
table, the hostess must needs give attention to the food that 
IS to supply the mental and physical wants of her guests. 
As no one course must be drawn out to unseemly length, so 
no one subject of conversation should engross too much at- 
tention. Then, too, the discourse, like the dishes in the menu, 
must be such as will be appreciated by the company. Same- 
ness, which engenders weariness, needs be avoided; and con- 
troversy must never be admitted. Upon the hostess devolves 
largely the duty of keeping the conversational ball rolling 
briskly back and forth, to the end that each guest may take 
his turn without apparent effort or seeming premeditation. 
Truly, the hostess plays no inconsiderable part in a successful 
evening's drama; and, certainly, to cultivate and refine one's 
taste, to learn how to lose one's self in the study of what 
is pleasing to others, has its influence in the formation of 
character itself. The menu provided for the "refection" of 
the physical body, while it should be in harmony with the 
environments and enlivened by the judicious introduction 
of little surprises, need not be ornate or extravagant. "Fla- 
mingoes from Sweden, game from Africa and South America, 
and pears from Assyria" are not called for. 

Within the past twenty-five years times have changed. 
The "decline of the kitchen" has become an assured fact; 
and the dweller in a flat, be it in Paris, New York, or the 
suburb of a more unpretentious city, should not seek to essay 
the impossible. The vast and seemingly boundless resources 
of the country that once were, and made lavish providing 
possible, exist no longer. An elegant simplicity, enough 
and no more, neither ostentation nor profusion, mark the 
choicest entertainments of the present day. Perfect cookery, 
immaculate surroundings, and dainty service, each stamped 
with the hall mark of the individual hostess, exemplify the 
ideal to be sought for by the hostess of the new century. 

In the greater number of homes in this country, the menage 
is limited to a single servant, perhaps, with special work done 



686 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

out of the house or a woman to help on some extra occasion. 
Under these circumstances, do not attempt to entertain 
guests in a ceremonious style and manner that can be suc- 
cessfully carried out only in those homes where a corps of 
trained servants is kept. Be natural and simple ; retain your 
friends by manifesting sincere interest in their prosperity, 
and genuine concern in their adversity. You yourself may 
not have the time to mingle with the outside world as you 
would desire; but these friends, if wisely chosen, will be as 
so many lines stretching out into the world and bringing to 
your fireside the lights and shadows of human affairs, the 
events of distant lands and climes, the living questions of the 
day, for thought and discussion. What more liberal education 
could one desire for her children ? 

And should you wish to emphasize your hospitality by 
some outward sign, attempt only what you can do well and 
without undue expenditure of time, money or strength. Set 
before your friends something simple, choice and well-prepared, 
that which will leave you free from anxiety concerning it. 
Cyrus, the younger, was conversant with the art of hospi- 
tality. We read how he used often to send to his friends 
viands partly eaten, and the halves of loaves, and other such 
things, desiring the bearer to say, in presenting them, "Cyrus 
has been pleased with these, and therefore wishes you also 
to taste of them." And no one, says Xenophon, was ever be- 
loved by a greater number of persons, either Greeks or bar- 
barians. Always select those things that are appropriate to 
the occasion. If a friend drops in for five o'clock tea, do not 
make of it an opportunity to serve refreshments elaborate 
enough for a reception. There is an "eternal fitness" in the 
small affairs of life, as well as in those of the gravest impor- 
tance. Give each the thought it deserves. Entertain simply, 
but often, and so learn to excel. 

THE FORMAL DINNER 

A solemn sacrifice performed in state. — Pope. 

The hospitality expressed in the words : 



THE INVITATION 687 

" Come in the eyening, or come in the morwing; 

Come when you're looked for, or come without warning," 

is possible only between those people who hold to each other 
the tenderest relationship of life, and whose coming and going 
disturb in no wise the outward and visible revolution of the 
household machinery. ' Quite difEerent is the case when hos- 
pitality is tendered in the form of an invitation to a formal 
dinner. In no other social function are the laws of etiquette 
so strictly to be observed. There are prescribed forms for 
everything connected with this function, and by carefully in- 
forming one's self in regard to a few rules of conduct, neither 
hostess nor guest need fear unpleasant situations; but, as 
in all things else, it is practice that makes perfect and gives 
the air of "being to the manner bom." 

THE INVITATION 

For a dinner party, as for a wedding party, and all strictly 
ceremonial occasions, the invitation is in written rather than 
in verbal form. Either a plain card of large size, or a sheet 
of heavy linen paper engraved in script, is considered in good 
taste. The names of the guests, the hour and date of the 
function, are filled in by hand. 

The prescribed form for both invitation and reply is 
given below: 

Invitation. 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Brown 
request the pleasure of 
Mr. and Mrs. Drake's 
company at dinner, on Thursday, 
February fifteenth, at 
eight o'clock. 
100 Beacon Street, 

Feb. I St. ' ' 

The address upon the envelope reads: 

Mrs. Wm. F. Drake, 250 Marlboro Street. 



688 PRACTICAL COOKlNG AND SERVING 

Reply. 

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. F. Drake 

accept with pleasure 

Iilr. and Mrs. Brown's" 

kind invitation to dinner on 

Thursday, February fifteenth, at 

eight o'clock. 

250 Marlboro Street, 

Feb. ist. 

Envelope addressed to Mrs. Frank J. Brown, 100 Beacon 
Street. 

If for any reason there is doubt of ability to attend the din- 
ner, substitute in reply for the words "accept with pleasure" 
the words "regret that they are unable to accept. " 

The invitation is usually sent out two weeks in advance, 
though in the height of the season, especially in large cities, 
it is sent even earlier. A reply should be sent the same day, 
or, at least, the day following the receipt of the invitation ; it 
should be declined in case of inability to accept by either of the 
individuals included in the invitation. . 

THE HOUR AND LENGTH OF THE DINNER 

The hour at which a formal dinner is served depends upon 
local custom; seven, seven-thirty and eight o'clock are the 
usual hours, though eight-thirty is often the hour in New. York 
and Washington, and nine in London. Two hours is the 
limit of time to pass at the table; an hour and a half is pre- 
ferable. Dinners are a recreation, and every moment should 
be charged with pleasure, if the affair is to be successful. 

ANNOUNCEMENT OF DINNER 

The guests will time their arrival to allow a margin of fifteen 
minutes before the hour for dinner. When all are assembled, 
the' butler or waitress draws the curtains that lead from the 
room and bows slightly to the hostess, or says, " Dinner is 
served. " If guests are late, dinner is not announced until an 
order from the hostess is received. 



STYLES OF SERVING DINNER 689 



SEATING THE GUESTS 

Where the number of guests is large and it might be incon- 
venient to inform the gentlemen as to the ladies they are to 
escort to the table, a tray holding small addressed envelopes 
is left in a conspicuous place in the gentlemen's dressing-room, 
or is passed to the gentlemen before they enter the drawing- 
room. Each selects the envelope bearing his name and finds 
enclosed on the card within the name o^ the lady he is to escort 
to the table. The letter R. or L. in one corner indicates the 
side of the table on which they are to find places. At each 
cover is a plain card on which is distinctly written the name of 
the guest who is to occupy. the seat. The host, with the most 
distinguished lady present, or the one in whose honor the 
dinner is given, and who is to sit at his right, leads the way to 
the dining-room ; the hostess with the gentleman who is to sit 
at her right leave the drawing-rootn last. The host sits upon 
the side of the table farthest from the entrance, thus enabling 
the hostess to find her place without passing those who have 
preceded her. At the close of the dinner all rise and the 
ladies pass to the reception room, where coffee is served to 
them, while coffee is served in the dining-room or the library 
to the gentlemen who remain behind to smoke. After a short 
half -hour "the dinner" is ended. Guests of honor are the 
first to go, speaking a few hearty words to the host and hostess 
in appreciation of their entertainment. It is considered 
almost a duty to return an invitation to dinner in kind, no 
other form of entertainment being quite equal to this. 

STYLES OF SERVING DINNER 

There are two distinct styles of serving a dinnet: English 
and Russian; a third style, called by Mrs. Henderson "the 
compromise, " emphasizes the best points of these two and is 
largely used, especially at "little dinners" and luncheons. 
The English style is that, with formalities omitted, which is 
usually seen every day at English, French and American 
tables, in families where but one or, at most, two maids are 
employed. That is, the viands are served from the table, the 



690 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

hostess serving the soup, salad and dessert, and the host carv- 
ing and serving the fish and roast. 

When a dinner is served k la Russe, the host and hostess are 
as guests at their own table, and everything is served "from 
the side " — that is, passed by attendants. It is. needless to add 
that a dinner thus served by capable attendants passes most 
expeditiously. Empty plates and those containing individual 
portions are set down and removed from the right, but serving- 
dishes, from which one is to help himself, are presented on the 
flat of the hand, with a folded napkin between, at the left 
of each guest. 

By the compromise plan or style, such dishes as the salad 
or dessert, which present a fine appearance and can be served 
quickly and without much effort, are served by the hostess, 
an4 a fish, for instance, easily separated into individual por- 
tions, is disposed by the host on the plates set down before 
him, one after another, by the waitress. 

Vegetable dishes, platters holding entries, salads or ices, 
are held, while being passed, on the hand of the waitress, with 
a folded napkin between the hand and the dish. Plates 
holding individual portions of soup, entree, etc., bon-bon 
dishes, small dishes of olives, salted almonds and the like are 
passed on a tray. Plates should be chilled for the salad and 
ice and thoroughly warmed for the hot dishes. Platters 
holding entries, salads, etc., should not be overfilled; one- 
third of the dish should be left free even of garnish. A single 
plate of soup or other article is to be carried at a time. Upon 
removing a plate that has been used, the one for the next 
course is put in its place, and, if silver be needed, this is laid 
at the side of the plate. 

Authorities differ as to passing individual plates of soup, 
entries, etc., on the tray. If the waitress is not sufficiently 
expert to carry them steadily on the flat of the hand, the 
tray is preferable. Soup plates should be half filled. Plates 
should be removed with the left and replaced with the right 
hand. 



TABLE COVERS AND LINEN 691 



LAYING THE TABLE 

THE TABLE 

Dining tables are round, square or long and oval ; the oval 
table is a novelty just now, but there is no shape of table at 
which a seat gives as attractive and comprehensive a view of 
the guests and the whole ensemble as the round. Round tops 
are made at an expense of $5.00 upwards; these are placed 
above an ordinary dining table, to secure space to seat the 
number of guests desired. The larger the table the larger the 
space that can be given up to floral decorations, as the plate 
line is the same, or nearly the same, for all tables; fifteen or 
sixteen inches is about the proper width for the "covers," 
dinner plates being ten inches in diameter. Table tops are 
made of pine wood and are hinged in the centre, the hinges 
being sunk into the wood ; thus they fold and occupy less space 
in storage. A round table five feet in diameter will accommo- 
date six people comfortably ; it may be used for eight. A table 
five feet square affords ample space for eight people. A 
round table seven feet in diameter seats twelve people, giving 
about twenty-five inches for each cover. 

TABLE COVERS AND LINEN 

First of all spread upon the table a soft, double-faced cotton 
material made for the purpose. This interlining protects the 
table, insures against noise in setting silver and china in place, 
and enhances the beauty of the linen. Above this is laid the 
linen cloth, laundered without folds, save one lengthwise 
exactly in the centre of the cloth. In placing the cloth upon 
the table, let this fold come exactly in the middle of the table. 
Fineness and firmness are desirable qualities in table linen. In 
purchasing, select the natural bleached linen rather than that 
with the high glaze and stiffness of artificially bleached linen. 
Launder without starch, as a rule. Starch is not required 
save in well-worn linen. Round cloths for round tables are 
no longer in demand. None but an expert laundress could 
iron these to hang properly. The cloths for tables five feet 
in diameter, round or square, are woven with a handsomely 



692 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

designed centrepiece that extends to the plate line and some- 
times to the edge of the table. The border of a very hand- 
some cloth seen recently had a design of field daisies, the 
long, straight stems of which began at the selvedge and ended 
with the blossom, at graduated length, just below the edge of 
the table. The pattern of another was of tulips and foliage, 
and so perfectly had it been laundered that each tulip seemed 
lifted up from the surface of the cloth. Or the damask may 
be woven to fit the table top and finished with a deep border 
of heavy hand-made lace, with an interlining of silk. An all- 
lace "cloth" over silk, of a shade that harmonizes with the 
general color scheme, is admissible, but the damask seems 
quite as appropriate for the serious business of dining. 

Centrepieces are made in shapes to fit the table — around, 
oval, square or oblong. These are of embroidered linen, 
drawn-work or lace; the two latter are often used over silk. 
In size, these centrepieces are small, a little larger than the 
table mirror, which often rests upon them, or they extend to 
the plate line. The English "runner" is just now in vogue 
for' long tables ; this often occupies all the space to the covers. 
The centre is of lace or embroidery and the edge affords space 
for low vases of flowers and candlesticks, which are disposed 
alternately in and out the entire length on each side. 

The napkin, or Serviettes, as our English friends would say, 
should be large and of the same pattern as the clothe In 
laundering these, fold in halves lengthwise, then fold again 
lengthwise, having the side with the selvedge edge upward; 
then fold over in the middle and one end back to the central 
fold; turn the napkin over and fold the other end to the central 
fold. (The napkin can be opened accordion fashion.) Place 
the napkins on the service plate, or at the left of the forks, 
or, when the plate holds oysters or canape, fold by hand in 
the middle and place above the plate. If cards be used to 
seat the guests, these should be placed upon the napkin. At 
dinner a roll, a piece of bread two by three inches, or three 
bread sticks tied together, are often placed, in sight, within the 
folds of the napkin. At luncheon any of these with a ball or 
neatly shaped piece of butter is placed on a bread-and-but- 




DINNER TABLE. FIRST COURSE. (Sec pages 6.,2 and 693.) 




LUNCHEON TABLE, SERVED FROM THE SIDE. (See page 700.) 



THE COVER 693 

ter plate with a butter spreader, a little to the right and above 
the plate. Butter not being served at dinner or at very for- 
mal luncheons, this plate does not then appear. Sometimes, 
at luncheons the individual butter plate is used, when the 
little plate would crowd the cover, as when wine glasses take 
up the space. 

THE COVER 

At the place of each individual, the plate and serviette, with 
such knives, forks, spoons, glasses, etc., as are needed for that 
particular meal, make up what is called "the cover. " Twenty 
inches of space is the least that should be allowed for each 
cover; twenty-five or thirty are better, and less than thirty 
inches would not do on a formal occasion. On formal occa- 
sions, a richly decorated dinner plate — about ten inches in 
diameter — is set at each cover, one inch from the table's 
edge, when the table is laid. The oyster and soup plates are 
placed, in turn, upon this, and, later, it is exchanged for the 
plate upon which the first hot course, after the soup, is served. 
When there are plenty of maids, thus avoiding drawing out 
the meal to an unseemly length, it is considered au fait to have 
a plate in the centre of each cover continuously, until the 
clearing of the table for dessert. 

At the right of the service plate, dispose as many knives as 
will be required before the dessert, each with cutting edge 
towards the plate. At the right of the knives, lay the soup 
spoon with the inside of the bowl upward; beyond this the 
fork for oysters and other hors d'oeuvre; so that, beginning 
with the oyster fork, the utensils on the right of the service 
plate be laid in the order of use. Beginning at the extreme 
left of the service plate, arrange the forks in the order of use, 
having the last used close to the plate. The tines should be 
turned up. 

When the number of courses is such that but two or three 
knives and forks are required, the dessert fork may be placed 
upon the table with the other forks and nearest the plate, 
with the dessert spoon above the plate. 

Spoons or forks for punch and spoons for after-dinner coffee 



694 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

are best laid by the plate or saucer at the time of serving. 
Indeed, the table can be cleared more neatly for the dessert 
if all the silver for dessert be put in place when needed. 

At the upper right hand of the service plate, at the tips of 
the knives, set the glass for water. This holds when wine is 
not served. When the dinner includes wine, the glass for 
water stands nearly in front of the plate and the first wine 
glass to be used is placed at the points of the knives ; the other 
wine glasses are disposed in one or two half'-circles, in the order 
of use, between this and the water glass. When but one wine 
is served at dinner, a choice is made of claret, sherry or cham- 
pagne. When several wines are served, sauterne (in a tall 
colored glass) is poured for the oysters and the glasses are re- 
filled when the fish has been served. Sherry is served with the 
soup, champagne with the roast, and Burgundy or claret 
with the game. Occasionally champagne is served with the 
game, and claret with the roast. The glasses are filled after 
the serving of the course. 

TABLE DECORATION 

The linen, service plates, and individual silver — glass being 
put in place last of all to avoid breakage — being systemat- 
ically and fegularly disposed upon the table, the china with 
decorations in natural position, the floral decorations may be 
completed. Time was when fruit was thought to be a notable 
feature in table decorations ; but, at the present time — save at 
Thanksgiving or harvest spreads — fruit, except, perhaps, a 
basket of choice strawberries, or cherries with blossoms and 
leaves, seem no longer admissible for this purpose. But one 
or two varieties of blossoms are used at a time. Arrange 
these so as to retain the beauty of each individual blossom. 

The decorations need be low or very high so as not to ob- 
struct the view across the table^ Sometimes blossoms are 
massed together to form a centrepiece, as when a bowl is 
filled with a mass of sweet peas; but the. delicacy that is se- 
cured by the careful arrangement of a few blossoms or ferns 
is always in good taste. A table less than five feet in diameter 
affords space for no other decoration than a tall slender vase, 



LIGHTING THE TABLE 695 

or a small fern holder, filled with flowers or ferns. A space 
thirty inches in diameter may be taken for the decoration 
of a five-foot round table, if the meal be served from the side 
and place be given on the side table for olives, salted nuts 
bon-bons, etc. In this case the lighting must be from above, 
or space be found in the decorations to set the candelabra or 
candlesticks. Goldenrod, field daisies, and similar wild flowers 
should appear but once, and then when freshly gathered; 
these are more suitable for a hall or reception room than for the 
dining-room. In the early spring, tulips, primroses, crocuses 
or valley lilies, growing in low wide pots set in jardinieres, 
made for the purpose of green and cream-colored ware, make 
pleasing decorations for a large round table. Narcissus, with 
foliage, combined with maiden hair or other delicate ferns, 
the latter spreading out in a very high crystal or green-and- 
gold vase, make a particularly beautiful table decoration. 
Yellow flowers and also violets need be used in the daylight. 
White and green make a delicate combination, but a touch of 
color is needed to give warmth or "tone, " unless the time of 
the function be mid-summer. The "Art Japanese" style of 
decoration is much affected by art students. Branches or 
single stems of flowers in small vases are placed here and 
there upon the table. Some blossoms are better adapted 
than others to this style of decoration. Branches of pussy- 
willow, catkins, japonica, peach, apple and cherry blossoms, 
holly and mistletoe are thus used successfully. 

The pretty Japanese custom of dropping a flower or flower 
petals in the finger-bowls has also obtained in this country. 
The flower chosen usually corresponds with those used in the 
decoration ; rose petals and violets are particularly attractive 
for this use. A water lily in each bowl is sometimes seen; 
when such lilies have been used as a centrepiece, nothing is 
more dainty for a summer breakfast party. 

LIGHTING THE TABLE 

Candles in stem candlestifks or in a candelabra are thought 
to give the most perfect light for a dinner table. If candles 
be used, there should be enough to light the room properly 



696 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

without the aid of gas or electric light, else the effect is lost. 
The newer candlesticks are fitted with a porcelain candle, — 
in color to suit one's fancy — that holds the wax or paraffine 
candle. Below is a spiral spring that pushes up the real 
candle as it burns. Candles in these candlesticks require 
little attention and by their use the lighting of a room with 
candles is simplified. Care needs be taken to place the candle- 
sticks where they will not obstruct the view of any of the 
guests. 

OTHER DECORATIONS THAN FLOWERS 

If one has choice bon-bon dishes that will add to the appear- 
ance of the table, they may be placed upon the table, at equal 
distances from each other, and the larger decorative pieces, 
as lamps and flowers, in vases. At the present time, however, 
it is customary to place all dishes of salted nuts, bon-bons, 
olives, etc., upon the sideboard. Here also, or upon a side 
table, should be disposed the finger-bowls, plates needed for 
any course not iced or hot, platps of bread or rolls, cracked ice, 
carafes of water, decanters and cutlery. The waiters should 
note when bread and water is needed, and supply such need 
after the serving of a course, as fish or game. 

China, silver and cut glass are, in themselves, highly deco- 
rative. Then the viands, though they may not appear on 
the table, if daintily set up and garnished, enhance the 
festive aspect of a function. The simplest garnishes are 
the best; parsley or cress, light and dark green lettuce leaves 
cut in narrow ribbons, or Nasturtium blossoms and leaves, 
for savory dishes, are among the simple and inexpensive gar- 
nishes that are always to be had. In summer, young grape, 
strawberry or currant leaves provide an appropriate setting 
for fruit and berries, and, when all else fails, diamonds of 
toast and slices of lemon, cooked eggs or beets may be brought 
into requisition. Dish papers, cut from unprinted news- 
paper, to cover two-thirds of the serving-dish, the edges 
neatly cut in fringe, are in demand for many savory dishes 
served without the intervention of a border, or unadorned 



ORDER OF SERVICE 697 

with a garnish; lace papers are for sweet dishes and' fringed 
linen doilies for bread and rolls. 

DETAIL OF SERVICE A LA RUSSE 

The oysters are in place when the guests are seated. When 
this course is finished, the oyster plate is removed and 
the service plate left in place. The soup plate is set upon 
this and, when this is removed, the service plate still is 
left and is used for olives, etc., being removed, with the 
left hand, when the fish plate is set down from the right 
with the right hand. When the fish plate is removed, the 
plate, with the entree neatly disposed upon it, replaces it. 
The plate for the roast displaces that on which the entree 
was served and is, in turn, displaced by the plate holding 
the glass of Roman punch and so on. In this manner a 
plate is always before the guest, until the table is cleared 
for the dessert. Then, the table being freed of condiments, 
relishes and stray crumbs, set down plates for the dessert, 
or plates holding individual portions of the dessert from 
the right. In order remove these from the right with 
the left hand, and set in place, with the right hand, the 
finger-bowls on doily-covered plates. Let the bowls be 
filled one-third with warm water. The finger-bowls are 
set on the doilies upon the table; and the plates are used 
for bon-bons, which are now passed; after which the ladies 
retire. Coffee and liqueur in tiny glasses are served to the 
gentlemen in the dining-room, and coffee and green mint 
with fine ice, or, sometimes, maraschino, to the ladies, in the 
reception-room. Spoons are passed with the mint. 

ORDER OF SERVICE 

In serving dinner, the maids, if there be two, begin at 
opposite ends of the table and serve first, the one, the lady 
on the right of the host, and the other, the gentleman on 
the right of the hostess, and so on, in order, until all have 
been served. In the next course, the lady and gentlemen 
on the left of the host and hostess, respectively, are served 
first, and thus in regular order. If there be but one waitress, 



698 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

she begins first at the right, then at the left of the host; 
the right and then the left of the hostess, thus each time 
coming last to the host or the hostess. 

THE DINNER MENU 

When we read such books as "Culinary Jottings," by 
Wyvem, and " Food and Feeding," by Sir Henry Thompson, 
we are forced to acknowledge that men have probably given 
greater attention and wider research to the scientific aspect 
of culinary affairs and to the minutiae of the menu, regard- 
ing taste as the point of view, than have women. With 
what fond solicitude have Haywood, Savarin and Thompson 
discussed the relative position of the various courses in the 
menu. With them no details relative to cooking or eating 
have been thought trivial or beneath notice. 

Wyvem says: "After years of observation I have come 
to the conclusion, if you want to put nice little dinners 
upon your table, you must not only be prepared to take 
an infinite amount of trouble, but you must make a friend 
of your chef." Here are two points which it were well for 
those who demand "elaborate menus for a dinner" to con- 
sider carefully. You cannot get up even nice "little din- 
ners" successfully without being willing "to take an in- 
finite amount of pains," and then to cultivate the best of 
feelings — a spirit of comradeship, as it were — with the 
man or maid who is to carry out the details of the meal. 
It is in the nice execution of the simplest details that the 
artist is discovered, in culinary matters, as it is in those of 
more ambitious efforts. • 

As a simple illustration, for instance, of the careful at- 
tention that must be given to little matters of details, where 
a phenomenal success in serving is sought for, we are told 
that at the Touraine (Boston), where the President was 
entertained on a recent visit, even the butter served to 
the guests bore the stamp of the American flag. 

The following may be called a representative menu for 
a formal dinner party in early April : 



REPRESENTATIVE MENU 699 



REPRESENTATIVE MENU 

1ST Course: Oysters. (Lemon Slices, Brown or Rye Bread Sand- 
wiches.) 

2ND Course: Consomme a la Royal. 

3RD Course: Brook Trout, Broiled, Maitre d'Hotel Butter. (Cucum- 
bers.) 

4TH Course: Sweetbread Croquettes, Mushroom Sauce. 

5TH Course: Saddle of Lamb, Stringless Beans. (Banana ^ Frit- 
ters.) 

6th Course: Roman Punch. 

7TH Course : Spring Chickens, Broiled, Lettuce Salad. 

8th Course : Strawberry Bombe Glac6, Lady Fingers. 

9TH Course: Bon-bons. 

I oth Course: Coffee. 

This menu might be lengthened (the larger the number 
of "covers" the larger the number of courses required) 
by adding a second soup, preferably a cream soup, as a choice, 
a second entree after the fish (as cutlets of beef forcemeat, 
tomato pur^e). A third after the saddle, which, in April, 
might be a dish of asparagus with a choice sauce, a hot 
pudding, as a custard soufH^, or a cold sweet, as a wine 
jelly, or a macedoine of fruits, before the ice, and tiny in- 
dividual cheese soufH^s, or some other savory tid-bit, if a 
souffle has appeared before, as the bonne bouche, before the 
coffee. Liqueurs are served after the coffee in the tiniest 
of glasses. 

The color of the meats and the sauces in the different 
courses should vary, as a dark meat with a dark sauce should 
be followed by a light meat with a light sauce. 'For a large 
entertainment, two soups are provided; a clear soup and 
thickened one. Potatoes and a sauce are served with a 
boiled or fried fish ; cucumber salad is provided, when the 
fish is broiled or cooked in a fancy manner. Entrees are so 
prepared as to be served without carving; if two be presented 
the first is the lighter or less substantial in character. Roasts 
include saddles of mutton, lamb or venison, beef or niutton 
tenderloins, turkey, capon, goose or duck. One or, at most, 
two vegetables accompany the roast. Cold meats, as aspics 



700 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

or chaudfroids, may be served after the game with salad; 
in this case salad is not passed with the game. 

"LITTLE DINNERS" 

Grand, formal dinners, where eight or ten elaborate courses 
are served to from ten to eighteen people and by no .less 
than three attendants, besides a cook, can be satisfactorily 
carried out only by people of wealth; but "little dinners" 
of eight covers, though six is preferable, may be served by 
a cook and one waitress to the perfect satisfaction of all 
concerned. Less formality is observed at such dinners, 
but the service needs be perfect, and this is only secured 
by practice. The menu for a dinner of this character would 
be made up practically as follows: Clear soup, fish, roast 
with one vegetable, game or hot cheese dish with salad, 
an ice, wafers, coffee. The little dinner may be elaborated 
by the addition of oysters before the soup, or an entree 
after the fish or the roast, or after both. 

FORMAL BREAKFASTS OR LUNCHEONS 

Breakfast and luncheon parties are much alike. The 
points of difference are easily distinguished. Gentlemen 
are invited with ladies to breakfast. Fruit always forms 
the first course; coffee is served, at pleasure, throughout 
the meal, or at the close; eggs appear in some form, usually 
as an entree or at the close as a sweet omelet; ices and cake, 
except at a wedding breakfast, are not considered indispens- 
able and are rarely served; lastly, the hour is not later than 
half past twelve. A centrepiece of ferns, a choice, growing 
plant, or cut flowers, are appropriate. If cut flowers be 
used, the arrangement should be simple; elaborate effects 
in all particulars are out of place. If the breakfast be in- 
tended for a rather formal function, serve the coffee at the 
close. The method of serving is the same for both break- 
fast and luncheon parties, and differs but little from that 
of a dinner party. The table is laid in the same manner, 
except that, at luncheon, the polished table may be bare, 
save for a luncheon cloth or a centrepiece and doilies. For 



THE HOUR OF THE HOME DINNER 701 

a luncheon, the napkins are usually quite small and fringed. 
The doilies are made in 'three sets, twelve, eight and four 
inches, respectively, in diameter, for service plate, bread- 
and-butter plate, and water glass. As the doilies for the 
service plate provides space for but a single knife and fork, 
other small pieces of silver are put in place as needed. For 
a simple luncheon with near friends as guests, fringed nap- 
kins of small size, perfectly laundered,^ spread for the ser- 
vice plate, give a happy change from the ordinary table 
cloth. 

At luncheon, the bouillon cup supplants the soup plate 
and the bouillon spoon the table or soup spoon. At a ver);- 
formal dinner in an Eastern city last winter, consomm6 was 
served as a first course in bouillon cups, and bouillon spoons 
were beside' the plate, but the hostess drdnk her soup from 
the cup, every one soon following suit. Gentlemen seemed 
to like the innovation, the soup not being garnished, but the 
procedure, though quite the proper thing at a supper served 
"en buffet," seems not quite in harmony with the appoint- 
ments of an elegant dinner. Roasts are reserved for dinner, 
and chops, chicken jointed or in individual pieces, small fillets 
of beef tenderloin, etc., with a vegetable, do duty as the piece 
de resistance of the meal. Before the birds and salad, a cup 
of chocolate with whipped cream, or a sherbet or frozen punch 
is often served, though the chocolate seems a little incon- 
gruous at this point in a luncheon. Birds are often supplanted 
by a salad in aspic. 

THE HOME DINNER 

"It seems dinners are but innovations, whilst breakfasts and sup- 
perss are men's most ancient and natural meals." 

"Laughter is one of the greatest helps to digestion with which I 
am acquainted, and the custom prevalent among our forefathers of 
exciting it at table by jesters and buffoons was founded upon true 
medical principles." — Hufeland. 

"Food well chatted is half digested." 

THE HOUR OF THE HOME DINNER 

Fuller, in speaking of the ravens that brought Elijah bread 



702 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and flesh in the morning and evening, draws the conclusion 
given at the head of this topic. In the main, this idea that 
dinner, or a rriid-day meal, is an innovation accords with all 
history. Historians agree that the fact of the preparation of 
but a single meal in a day is one of the chief marks of dis- 
tinction between savage and civilized races. The single meal 
of the. savage is prepared toward the close of the day, after 
food has been secured from the streams, or as trophies of the 
chase. The world's events move in circles, and the innova- 
tion of a mid-day meal is surely disappearing in favor of the 
ancient custom of dinner after the work of the day has been 
accomplished. 

In this custom there are advantages and disadvantages. 
If the family consist of growing children, a substantial mid- 
day meal becomes quite necessary for them. Throughout 
the whole period of school life, the growth of the body is going 
on, the individual organs are increasing in size, and the en- 
tire framework is being constantly enlarged and strengthened. 
To meet this growth, there must be an abundant allowance 
of food — and food of the proper kind — to furnish new tissue 
(proteid) and to supply force and activity (carbohydrates). 
Then, too, monotony in diet, which is really less common 
from economic reasons than from carelessness or failure to un- 
derstand the importance of the subject, must be avoided. 

During the period of youth the foundations of future health 
or disease are laid; and, while more pains needs be taken in 
the case of children of feeble constitution by inheritance, a 
matter of such vital importance to all children needs be under 
the direct and constant supervision of a thoughtful mother. 
Adults digest and assimilate slowly, and, as only light mental 
or physical work should be undertaken after the ingestion of 
hearty food, a mid-day meal for them is not to be considered. 
In actual practice, the preparation of two dinners in one day 
is not the troublesome matter that it appears at first sight, 
for the number of meals is not increased, and in families where 
two or three maids are kept and the heaviest work of the day 
has been completed, their dinner may be prepared with that of 
the children. If there be but one or two children, it is a simple 



SERVING TilE HOME DINNER 703 

matter to broil chops or a bit of steak or fish, which with a 
baked potato may furnish the piece de resistance of many a 
dinner, leaving soup for the meal at night. 

At night, there can be no excuse for an indifferently pre- 
pared meal; everything can be made ready in the early part 
of the day and the final cooking and serving be completed 
without the rush and hurry incident when other work is going 
on. At least two dishes, as the soup and the dessert, should 
be suitable for children of school age, who should appear at 
dinner and be encouraged to add their mite to the pleasure of 
the occasion. If we cannot have music and dancing, "jesters 
and buffoons," to beguile us while we eat, let the brightness 
of the day that has come to us, the lively sayings that we 
hear, cheer the hours of the meal time, and, lest we miss some 
good thing that will bear repeating, let us cultivate the habit 
of looking for brightness everywhere. The dinner being the 
formal meal of the day, plan to keep in reserve something 
to make both the menu and table attractive; holly and ever- 
green at Christmas, a pot of crocuses, primroses, tulips or 
jonquils in the late winter, a potted fern in a jardiniere, a 
root of partridge vine with berries and a few green things from 
the woods, growing in moist earth under glass in the late 
autumn, are attainable by many. In late spring and summer 
the children will find, in their daily rambles, enough delicate 
wild flowers or foliage to insure a pleasing and varied centre- 
piece. The influence of these little things is often more far- 
reaching than we imagine. Who could serve "soggy" po- 
tatoes or a burned and smoky steak, or what child would far 
overstep the limits of decorum without compunctions of re- 
morse, or, at least, a sense of incongruity, at a table adorned 
with a pot of crocuses, tulips, or jonquils. 

SERVING THE HOME DINNER 

THE MENU 

The regulation home dinner should consist of soup, a sub- 
stantial dish, as meat, poultry or fish, one or two vegetables,^ 
a salad, a sweet and coffee. A carefully prepared entree aftfer 



704 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the piece de resistance adds to the^ variety and style of the 
meal. If this be fashioned of some "left-over," which even 
careful management ctanot entirely eliminate, it tends to 
diminish the quantity of the main dish of the meal — and 
usually the most expensive article in the menu. The style 
of serving the home dinner must of necessity depend largely 
upon the style of living. When the mother is assisted by 
only one maid, steps need be considered, and serving from the 
side is evidently quite out of the question, even if the maid 
be able to carve. 

The soup in soup plate may be brought in on the service 
plate just before the family are seated- This obviates the use 
of a second service or chatige plate, a necessity when any one 
save an expert passes soup in the dining-room. While the 
soup is being eaten, the maid dishes the roast and vegetables 
and brings in the roast, the table having been laid with a 
carving cloth and cutlery. She retires with two soup plates 
and brings in from the warming oven the required number 
of dinner plates, which she sets down directly in front or at 
the left of the server, then she reirioves to a side table the rest 
of the soup plates, two at a time. Plates in a pile are con- 
sidered a breach of perfect table service, and is a concession 
to existing circumstances. 

When the maid waits upon the table five days in the week, 
a routine suitable to that particular family can be easily 
mastered by both family and maid, to the end that each shall 
know what is to be expected. 

While the meat is being carved and passed to the older 
members of the family, the maid brings in two vegetables on a 
tray, a tablespoon in each, and passes the tray to the left of 
each individual. She now. sets the tray on the side table and, 
when the meat for the children is cut, places the vegetables 
allowed them on the plates, cuts the meat in small bits and 
. sets. them before the children. Where the maid cannot carry 
or hold the plate safely on the flat of the hand, with a folded 
napkin between,, it should be carried on a tray. This course 
finished, the plates are removed, two at a time, to a side table, 
where, when opportunity offers, the silver is noiselessly col- 




TABLE LAID FOR SUNDAY NIGHT TEA. (See page 705.) 
No maid in attendance. 






TABLE LAID FOR RECEPTION OR TEA. 
Two ladies to serve ices, one lady to pour tea, and a fourth to preside over the coffee service. 



SERVING THE HOME DINNER 705 

lected on a tray and the plates are piled to be taken to the 
kitchen. The salad, kept until this time in a cool place, is no,;w 
placed before the mistress, the plates as before, the salad 
spoon on the right, the fork on the left; the filled plates are set 
down before those at table from the right, and later on re- 
moved, one at a time, from the right to the side table. Re- 
move the salad dish, pepper, salt, etc., on a tray, brush the 
crumbs, and set the dessert before the mistress (this, if not an 
ice, or a dish served hot or chilled, may have been standing 
on the sideboard), put the plates in place, as also a spoon for 
serving. Set the prepared plates down from the right, pass 
sauce or sugar and cream on a tray to the left. Then bwng 
in the coffee, made after the serving of the salad, on a tray 
with cups and saucers. Set the coffee service before the 
mistress from the right, aid pass the cups of coflee, then the 
sugar and cream on a small tray, if these are served, or if the 
mother does not add them. If finger-bowls be used, set these 
in place, from the right, one-third filled with tepid water and 
standing on a plate with a doily between; .pass bon-bons, 
fill the glasses, and retire. On occasion, the dessert plate,s 
might be removed before passing coffee and finger-bowls, but 
generally, with dishes to wash and her own dinner to get 
ready, this will not be required. Finger-bowls with children 
at table are a necessity rather than a luxury. 

With more maids, the nearer the approach may be to the 
service of the formal dinner. 

As the Thursday night dinner and the Sunday night tea 
are often prepared and served without the assistance of a 
maid, everything should be in readiness beforehand and 
a menu selected that will admit of as many dishes as possible 
being placed either on the table, or on a side table, beifpj:e 
the family is called. Then, if one of the fam,ily quietly re- 
moves the meat course with its attendant dishes, bi^ushes 
and crumbs, after the salad has been considered, atteij^s 
to the passing of the dessert, brings in boiling water and sets 
the coffee, tea or cocoa service in place, the meal may foe 
daintily served to the satisfaction of all. The making pf 
the beverage, or cooking of -an article upon the chafing 



7o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

dish, will give variety and add a charm to the meal that 
will amply compensate for loss in some other features of the 
service. 

TEAS 

I can hit on.no novelty, — ^none, on my life, 
Unless peradventure you'd tea with your wife. 

^-Ingoldsby Legends. 

"Let steaming kettle sing, 
Then pretty caddy bring. 
And teapot from Japan." 

In America a cup of tea is not the universal and every- 
day occurrence that it is in England and her dependencies. 
Originally, perhaps, climate had something to do with the 
introduction of this custom abroad. Then, too, the late- 
ness of the foreign dinner hour made the habit almost a 
necessity. But now we, who are inclined to copy what 
we like, wherever it may be found, have taken this pleasing 
and informal form of hospitality for our own, and the five 
o'clock tea-table has become a familiar object in our homes. 
Moreover, in addition to the delightful custom of offering 
"a cup of tea to the chance caller of the late afternoon, we 
have instituted all sorts of "teas." 

There are private and public teas, church and club teas, 
to introduce a debutante or welcome a guest of distinction. 
Then there are teas that take the form of an "at home" 
given on some particular and uniform day of each week of 
the month or season. 

For all these, except the informal five o'clock function, 
which can hardly be classed a "function," invitations in 
some form are extended. When the tea takes the form of 
an "at home," a plain visiting card, with the receiving day 
engraved at the lower left-hand corner, is sent to friends 
and acquaintances and also to strangers whose acquaint- 
ance is desired. When possible, besides the card of invita- 
tion, a verbal invitation is ^.Iso given, in the case of strangers, 
and takes the place sometimes of the card. The cards show 
that the teas are for Tuesdays, during the season, the month 




::'Mj. 






SERVING THE HOME TABLE 707 

of January, and for one Tuesday in January, respectively. 
The address may be added at discretion. 

Mrs. James B Mrs. James B- 



Tuesdays. Tuesdays in January. 

Mrs. James B 

Tuesday, January Fifth. 

.For the five o'clock tea as an every-day occurrence, or 
as given on some special day each week of the season, no 
formal display is made. It is simply a social hour snatched 
from a busy day, but the service heeds be dainty and im- 
maculate. The sandwiches are ethereal affairs, and the tea 
a choice brand. Polished silver atid egg-shell china are 
needful accessories. The butler, maid, or a member of the 
family, according to circumstances, separates the nest of 
tea tables, and places all but the outer one about the recep- 
tion room, where they will best accommodate the guests. 
Upon these a plate of sandwiches or wafers may be placed, 
or they furnish a convenient receptacle for a cup or plate. 
The largest table is placed before' the hostess. Upon this 
a tray holding the tea service is set. Hot water is brought 
on in the tea-kettle, which, over the spirit lamp, soon reaches 
the boiling point, and tea is made. The tea-ball, or the 
newer teaspoon, on the same principle as the ball, is a con- 
venience, whfere a single cup of tea is to be poured at a time; 
but, when several cups are to be served at once, the tea-pot, 
with its heat-confining cosy, is called into requisition. Sweets 
are occasionally served; but "good form," as well as hygienic 
considerations connected with the nearness of the dinner- 
hour, restrict the refection to dry biscuit or wafer-like sand- 
wiches. In absence of more than one assistant, guests wait 
on themselves and each other, the maid attending to the 
supply of hot water and removing the cups. 

When cards are sent out to one's entire list of acquaint- 
ances for some special day, as Tuesday, Junary 5, the tea 
loses its home character and becomes a reception. Potted 
plants and cut flowers are in profusion, when means admit; 
daylight is excluded, and a table in the dining-room is made 



7o8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

attractive with flowers, lights (preferably candles), beautiful 
china, silver and glass. An orchestra of stringed instru- 
ments, screened from view and rendering selections that 
are but little more than audible, stimulate conversation, 
and give the finishing touch to a bright and charming form 
of entertainment. The rnenu for s^cji an occasion includes 
tea, cocoa, bouillon, sandwiches, salads, ices, cakes, and 
bon-bons. The gruests enter the room without invitation. 
Waiters are in attendance, who serve or assist in serving 
the various kinds of dainties. 

When cards are sent out for a series of te^s, as for "Tues- 
days in January," the affair is rather more formal than 
the "five o'clock," but much less formal than the reception. 
Music is dispensed with, unless it be vocal, or a few selec- 
tions on the piano, toward the close of the entertainment. 
The refreshments are served in the dining-room from a 
prettily decorated table. The tea-service and the service 
for cocoa, presided over by friends of the hostess, occapy 
two sides of the table respectively. Guests enter the room 
without invitation, and are served with tea or cocoa, help- 
ing themselves to sandwiches, cakes, and bonbons, with 
which the table is kept supplied. A maid takes the soiled 
cups, and sometimes a second maid brings in glasses of 
frapp^ or sherbet. Church, qlub and other teas are copies 
or modifications of one of these three general styles of "tea." 



CHAPTER VII 
Menus for Occasions 

THANKSGIVING DINNER 

We yield Thee unfeigned thanks a:nd praise, as for all thy mercies, so 
especially for the returns of seed-time and harvest, and for crowning 
the year with thy goodness in the increase of the ground, and the 
gathering in of the fruits thereof. — Book of Common Prayer. 

MENU 

Consomm^ k la Royal, Celery. 
Roast Turkey. 
Garnish: Sausage Cakes and Italian Chestnuts. 
Escalloped Oysters. 
Mashed Potatoes, Sweet Potato and Almond Croquettes, 
Sweet Pickled Peaches, Gooseberry Jelley. 
Cauliflower, HoUandaise Sauce. 
Cranberry Frappe. 
Chicken Sallad, French Style. 
Ginger Ice Cream. Hot Apple Pie. 
Neufchatel Cheese, Crackers. 
Black Coffee. 

THANKSGIVING DINNER. (COLONIAL STYLE) 

"Some hae meat and canna eat, 

And some hae nane who want it. 
But we hae meat and we can eat 
And sae the Lord be thankit." 

MENU 

Clam Chowder, Pickles. 

Wild Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts. 

Roast Spare Rib (Pork.) Pumpkin Sauce. 

Succotash. Mashed Turnips. Onions. 

709 



, 7IO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mashed Potatoes. Cold Slaw. 

Boston Brown Bread. Rye Bread. 

Pumpkin Pie, Apple Pie, Cheese. Thanksgiving Pudding 

Fruit. Cider Cup. 

CHRISTMAS DINNER 

Heap on more wood ! the wind is chill; 

But let it whistle as it will, 

We'll keep our Christmas merry still. 

— Sir Walter Scott. 
MENU 

Consomm^ with Chestnut Timbales and Turnip Balls. 
Fillets of Flounder, with Blanched Oysters, 
Hollandaise Sauce. Potato Balls. Hot House Cucumbers 
' Young Goose Roasted. 

Chantilly Apple Sauce with Horseradish. 

Celery, with Brown Sauce. 

Tomato Punch. 

Roast Duck. 

Orange-and-Endive Salad. 

Plum Pudding, Brandy Sauce. Mince Pie. 

Carmel Ice Cream. 
Black CoflEee. Cheese Bouchers. 

COLONIAL TEA 

Colonial colors, buff and blue, or National colors, red, white and blue 

Blue china with yellow daffodils. 

or 

Red and white tulips in a blue bowl. 

Oysters. 

(Scalloped or , Creamed in cases or shells.) 

Cold Turkey, Cranberrry Sauce. 

Celery-and- Hickory Nut Salad. 

Boston Baked Beans Salad, Garnish: 

Tomato Jelly and Celery. 

Individual Pumpkin Pies. 

Blueberry Sherbet (canned berries) . 

Maple Sugar Bon-bons. 

Pop Com Balls. 

Salted Peanuts. 




CHRISTMAS DINNER TABLE FOR CHILDREN, LAST COURSE. 




CHRISTMAS DINNER TABLE WITH WREATHS, ETC. 



MENUS FOR OCCASIONS 711 



LAWN FETE 

Floral Decorations: — Pink Sweet Peas and Mignonette. 

Shrimp-and-Cucumber Salad. 

Assorted Sandwiches. Rolls. 

Pineapple-and- Peach Salad, Pineapple Shell, 

Pistachio nuts as garnish. 

Mignonette Parfait. 

Iced Tea. 

EASTER DINNER. (YELLOW COLOR SCHEME) 

" Daffodils, 
That come before the swallow dares, and takes 
The winds of March with beauty." 

MENU 

Cream of Spinach. Clear Green Turtle Soup. 

Pim-Olas. 

Brook Trout, Fried, Sauce Tartare. Rye Bread-and-Butter 

Sandwiches. 

Potato Croquettes (Egg-shaped) , Peas in Cream Sauce in Centre, 

Asparagus in Puff-paste Patties, Egg Yolks. 

Crown of Lairib, Mint Sauce. 

Bernhardt Potatoes. Banana Fritters, Orange Sauce. 

Broiled Squabs or Stall-fed Quail. 

Lettuce and Tomato, Sifted Yolk of Egg. 

French Dressing. 

Cream Cheese, Bar-le-Duc Currants (white). 

Pineapple-and-Orange Sherbet, Egg Shapes in Spun 

Sugar Nests. 

Assorted Cakes. 

Candied Mint Leaves. Candied Orange PeeU 

Black Coffee. 

LENTEN LUNCHEON 
Floral Decorations: — Valley Lilies and Violets. 

MENU 

Oyster Cocktails, Sprinkled with Chopped Parsley. 

Cream of Spinach. 

Broiled Baltimore Shad, Roe Sauce. 



712 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

LENTEN LUNCHEON— CONTINUED 

French Fried Potatoes, Cucumbers. 

Lobster Mayonnaise in Casseroles. 

Garnish : Figures cut from Poached white of egg. 

Cheese Straws. Olives. 

Black Coffee. 

WEDDING BREAKFAST. (JUNE) 

She's beautiful, and therefore to be wooed; 
She is a woman, therefore to be won. 

— King Henry VI. 

Down on your knees, 
And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love. 

— As You Like It. 

Floral Decora;tions: — White Sweet Peas and Maiden Hair Ferns. 

MENU 

Strawberries, dU naturel. 

Halibut Palmettes. Hot House Cucumbers. 

Peas in "White Sauce. - Rolls. 

Baked Fillets of Chicken-breast, Mushroom Sauce. 

Lettuce-a'nd-Asparagus Tip Salad, 

Iced Mayonnaise. 
Fiiiit ices in Spun Sugar Nests. 
Assorted Cakes. Bon-bons. 
C6ffee. 



INDEX 



Acid, Acetic, 387 

CStric, 387. 

Lactic, 387. 

Muriatic, 387. 

Phosphate, 387. 
Africans or Othellos, 436. 
Air, Incorporated, Expansion of 

386. 
Albumen, Cookery of, 7 
Albuminoids, 4-5. 
Almond Milk for Curries, etc, 34. , 
Almond Wafers, 450. 
Almonds, etc.. Blanching of, 33. 

Chopped, 33. 

Salted, 576-7. 

Shredded and Pounded, 34. 
Anchovy Croustades, 386. 

Pur6e, 367. 
Anchovies, Plain, 10 1. 

Preparing for Use, 35. 

Stuffed, 102. 
Apple Cake, German, 432. 

Charlotte, J70. 

Croquettes, 571. 

And Cress Salad, 357. 

Fritters, 542. 

Jelly, 589. 

Marmalade, 588. 

Pies, 477-478. 

Sauce, 566-567. 

Tapioca Pudding, 536. 
Applet k la Manhatta,n, 570. 

Baked with Almonds, 567. 

Blushing with Orange Sauce, 

567- 
Blushing Creole Style, 568. 
Duchess Style, 566. 
Fancy Baked, 569. 
. Jellied, 569-570. 
In Syrup, 567. 
To Serve, 560. 
With Rice, 568. 



Apricots, Frozen, 616. 
Asparagus, Baked with Cheese, 
307. 

Boiled, Mouss'eliile Sauce, 308. 

enBrdfithes, ^6'j. 

Cookery 6f, ett., 306. < 

With Egg Loaf, 66. 

k la Indienno-, 3'46. 

Patties, 308. 

Spanish Style, 30S. 
Aspic Jelly, 217, 273, 374, 375. 

B 

Baba with Fruit, 430. / 

Bacon, 166. 

Bag and Tubes, Pastry or Forc- 
ing, 32. 
Baking Powder and Formula for, 

388-389.. 
Baking Powder Biscuits", 417. 
Bananas, Baked, 574. 

Compote of, 573. 

Fried, 574. ^ 

With Rice, etc., 572. 

en Surprise, 612. 
Bass Forcemeat, 9,9. 
Bass Fried with Bacon, 96. 
Batter, Fritter,. 272. 

for Swedish Timbale CaseS, 
272. 
Batters and Doughs, Description 

of, 384-385. 
Bavarian Cream, Composition of, 
516. 

Apncot, 519. , 

Burnt Almond, 518. 

Caramel, 517. 

Chocolate, 517. 

Coffee, 517. 

Ginger, 518. 

Maple, 518. 

Pineapple, 518. 

Pistachio, etc., 519. 



713 



714, PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Bavarian Cream — Continued. 

Raspberry, 520. 

Rice, 520. 

Vanilla, 517. 
Bean Salad, French, 357. 
Beans, Boston Baked, 159. 

Baked with Sausage, 158. 

Lima, 305. 

String and with Bacon, 305. 
Beating, 19. 
Beef i la Mode, 126. 

Braised, 127. 

Cakes, Broiled, 652. 

Cannelonof, 129. 

Chemical Composition, etc., 
122. 

Corned, 130. 

Creamed Corned, au Gratin, 
248. 

Diagram ofaSideof, 123. 

Essence, 647. 

Fillet of, 266. 

Fillet of. Roasted, 128. 

Fillets of, with Marrow, 266. 

Forcemeat, Cutlets of, etc., 
262. 

Juice, Broiled, 647. 

Roast, 125-126. 
Beefsteak, Chateaubriand Pierce, 

133- 

Description and Names, 131, 

Flank, 134. 

Hamburg, ^33. 

To Broil, 132. 
Beef Stew, 129. 

Hungarian, 133. 
Beef, Tenderloin Cutlets of, 126. 
Beef Tenderloin,Grenadinsof, 267, 

With Juice, 652. 

Minions of, 267. 
Dumas, 268. 
With Chestnuts, 268 

Noisettes of, 268. 

Paupiettes of, 268. 

Supreme of, 262. 
Beef Tea, 648. 
Beef Tongue, Boiled, 131. 

In Jelly, 278. 
Belgian Hare, 182, 186, 187. 
Beets, Cooking of, 304. 
Beverages, 43. 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 417. 

Finger, with Pistachio, 437. 



Biscuit — Continued. 

Glac6, 600. 

Maryland Beaten, 413. 

Naples, 436. 

Oatmeal, 409. 

Tomato, 406. 

Tortoni, 621. 
Bisque of Lobster, 209. 
Bisque of Oyster, 209. 
Bisque, Mock, 210. 
Bisques, Derivation, etc., 208. 
Blackberry Sponge, 572- 
Blanching Almonds and Nuts. 33 

Fresh Vegetables, 30. 

Macaroni, 335. 

Rice, 30. 
Blanc Mange, 511. 

Prunes, 515. 

Sea Moss Farine, 653. 
Boiling, 16. 
BombI Glac6, 616. 
Bomb6 Glac6, Combinations for, 

617. 
Boning, 22. 

Boning Poultry and Birds, 167,169. 
Boston Brown Bread, 415. 
Boston Cream Cakes, 453. 
^otdllon, 198. 
Bouquet, Kitchen, 23. 
Bow Knots, 456. 
Braising, 17. 
Bread, Baking, 400. 

Barley, 403. 

Braids, 406. 

Brown, with Yeast, 464, 

Brown, Boston, 415. 

Caraway Seed, 403. 

Care of, after Baking, 400. 

Entire Wheat or Graham, 
402. 

Five Hour, 404. 

Flour, When to Use, 394. 

Flour, How to Distinguish, 

394- 
French, 402. ^ 

General Directions for, 396, 
Gluten, 404. 
Ingredients of, 393. 
Milk, 401. 

and Water, 402. 
Oatmeal, 403. 
Old Fashioned Brown, 409. 

Virginia Batter, 413. 



INDEX 



ns 



Bread — Continued. 

Proportions of Ingredients in, 

T, , 397- 
Pulled, 410. 

Rye, 403. 

Sticks, 406. 

Sponge for, 401. 

Utensils for, 397. 

Virginia Spoon Corn, 413. 

Water, 402. 

What is Good, 393. 
Breakfasts and Luncheons, For- 
mal, 700. 
Brioche, 427. 

Coffee Rolls from, 428. 

St. Mark, 429. 

With Head, 429. 
Broiling, 11. 
Broiling Pan, 12. 

To Bread for, 26. 
Brook Trout, Broiled, 96. 

In Paper Cases, 98. 

Etc., Steamed, 90. 
Broth, Chicken, Veal, etc., 648— 
649. 

Mutton, 649. 

Scotch Beef, 649. 

Standard Fish, 197. 

Standard Formula for, 198. 
Brownies, 448. 

Brussels Sprouts with Butter, 301. 
Buns, Bath, 431. 

Brioche, 428. 

Easter or Hot Cross, 408. 
Butter, Anchovy, 242. 

Black {Beurre Noir), 242. 

Clarified, 243. 

Green, 242. 

Lobster, 242. 
Maitre d' Hotel, 241. 
Butters, Fancy, 366. 



Cabbage, Cookery of, 301. 

Stuffed, 301. 
Cake, Almond, 445. 

Angel, 435. 

Baking, 424, 427.' 

Blueberry Tea, 418. 

Boiled Sponge, 434. 

Breakfast Com, 414. 



Cake — Continued. 
Bride's, 442. 
Chocolate Sponge, 435. 
Cocoanut, 435. 
Cocoanut Pound, 448. 
Delicate, 445. 
Devil's Food, 443. 
Election, 432. 
Elegant, 443. 
Entire Wheat Fruit, 439. 
Formula for Sponge, 433. 
Fruit, 439-440. 
Fruit (White), 439. 
German Apple, 432. 
German Coffee, 407. 
Golden, 445. 

Hartford Election, 431,444. 
Hickory Nut, 441. 
Ice Cream, 443, 445. 
Icings and Decorations, 458. 
Ideal Sponge, 434. 
Imperial, 440. 
Johnny, 412. 
Lemon, 444. 
Lincoln, 441. 
Loaf, 439., 
Made with Yeast, 426. 
Making, Materials for, 424. 
PreUminaries to, 422- 

423- 

Utensils for, 424. 
Mixing, Butter, 426. 

Sponge, 426. 
Mocha, 436. 
Moist Chocolate, 442. 
Nut and Raisins, 441. 
Orange, 438. 

Pans, Lining and Filling, 425. 
Pineapple, 446. 
Pistachio, 446. 
Plain, 443- 
Pound (by Weight and Meas> 

■ure), 438. 
Pound (White) , 439. 
Sponge, 434. 

(With Water), 437. 
Spider Com, 414. 
St. Honors, 501. 
Stockbridge, 414. 
Sunshine, 435. 
Thanksgiving, 431. 
White, 441. 



7i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Cakes, Berlin Pan, 433. 

Boston Cream, 453- 

Breadcrumbf Griddle, 418. 

Buckwteat, 4 19. 

Commeal and Rice, 419. 

Flannel, 419. 

French Cream, 454. 

German CoflEee, 408. 

Kornlet Griddle, 420. 

Lady Finger, 436. 

Lemon Queen, 447. 

Molasses Drop, 446. 

Nut, 447. 

Regarding,'42i-42 2. 

Rice , Griddl^/ 419. 

Small Chocolate, 447. 
Calf's Head, Brains, etc., 154. 

Liver, Broiled, 151. 
Fried, 151. 
Loaf, 152. 
Canapds, Indian Style, 367. 

Lobster, 367. 
Candy, Cocoanut Cream, 636. 

Maple Cream, 635. 

Molasses, 635. 

Peanut Brittle, 6,36. 

Vanilla Sugar, 635. 
Candied Chestnuts (Marfons 
Glac6s)„ 638. 

Orange or Lemon Peel, 639. 

Violets, 639. 
Canning, 581. 
Canned Strawberries, 589. 
Caramel for Flavoring, Lining, 

etc., 33. 
Caramel Sauce, 555. 
Caramels, 634, 635. 

Chocolate/ 635. 

Vanilla, 634. 
Carameled Nuts,, 638. 
Carbohydrates, Where Found, 5. 
Carbonates, 387; 
Carbon Dioxide, 385, 387, 396. 
Carrots, 314. 
Catsup, Grape, 594. 

Mushroom, 595. 

Tomato, 594. 
Cauliflower k la Huntington, 300. 

And Beet Salad, 358,. 

Au Gratin in Cheese Shell, 300. 

Composition, 284. 

Cookery of, 299. 



Cauliflower — Continued. 

Fried, 301. 

With Mushrooms, 300. 
Caviare Croustades, 369. 

In Swedish Cases, 369. 

With Eggs and Cucumbers, 

369- 
Celery and Cheese au Gratm, 311. 
Celery and Cheese Salad, 358. 
Celery, Cress and Walnut Salad, 
360. 
English Walnut and Pimento 

Salad, 359. 
Creamed in Cheese Shell, 311. 
Jelly, 360. 
To Fringe, 35. 
With Sauce, 310. , 
Cereals, Breakfast, 32'6.. 

Cooking and Serving, 

,327- 
In Omelets, 329. 
Chafing Dish Cookery a!nd Serv- 
ice, 339. 
Oysters for, 342. 
Creamed Dishes for, 34 3(. 
Fuel for, 340-341. 
Charlottes, Cold, jai. 
Charlotte Russe, Banana Canta- 
lo'^pe, 523. 
Burnt Almond, 521. 
Chestnut, 525. 
Choc61a;te, 523. 
Filling, 524, 617. 
Individual Maple, 523. 
Strawberry, 521. 
With Quinces, 522. 
Salpicon of Fruit, 522. 
Chartreuse of Chestnuts", 524. 

Salmon, 102. 
Chateaubriand k la Pierce, 153. 
Chaudfroid, Chicken Supreme, 
282. 
Lamb Chops, 283. 
Sauce, 231. 
Sweetbread, 283. 
Tongue, with Jelly, 282. 
Chaudfroids, Description of, 281, 
Cheese Balls, 381. 
Bouch^es, 490. 
Cakes, 378. 
Cottage, 377. 
Composition of, etc., 375-376. 



INDEX 



717 



Cheese — Continued. 

Cream, 378. 

Croquettes, 382. 

In Shells, 380. 

Moulded With Nuts, Neuf- 
chatel, 379. 

Rings, 381. 

And Celery Salad, 358. 

Sandwiches, 373, 

Sesrvice of, 377. 

Souffle, 379. 

Straws, 381. 
Cherries with Crusts, 573. 
Chestnut Croquettes, 534. 

Custard, 504. 

Preserves, Vanilla, 585. 
Chestnuts, Planching, etc., 34. 

Chartreuse of, 524. 

Devilled, 348. 

Pur^e of, with. Cream, 526. 
Chicken h la Bonne Femme, t8i. 

And Sweetbread Croquettes, 
251. 

Boiled with Tomato Sauce, 
182. 

Broiled with Sweet Pota- 
toes, 178. 

Casserole of, 180. 

Chaudfroid of , 282. 

Cold Souffl6 of, 280. 

Cream Poreemeat, 257. 
of, G\a.ci, 28 1. 

Creamed with Potatoes and 
Peppers, 346. 

Creole, 179. 

Curry of, 182. 

Cutlets, Parker House Style, 

253- 

Cutlets with Salad, 277. 

Essence of, 234. 

Fililets, Plain ,-2 70. 
In Aspic, ,653- 
With Porcenieat, 271. 
Mushrooms, 271. 
Tongue, 270. 

Forcemeat with Sauce, 257. 

Fricassee, 180. 

Fried in Batter, 272. 

Legs as Cutlets, 261. 

Loaf, 151. 

Pressed, 151. 

Puffie for Garnish, 281. 



Chicken — Continued. 

Rechauf6 with Pilaf, 249. 

Salad in Rolls, 361. 

Saut6, 178-179. 

With Cauliflower, 179. 

Suprgme of, 264. 

Timbales, 259,. 260, 263, 264 

Victoria, 248.^ 
Chocolate Bombe with Fruit, 613. 

Cake, Moist, 442. ' 

Cakes, Small, 447. 

Chestnuts, 633. 

Composition, etc, of, 50. 

Custard Pudding, 503. 

Eclairs, 454. 

Mints, 632. 

Puffs, 454. 

Recipe for, as Drink, 52. 

Souffle, 348.' 

In Puddings, Use of, 495. 
Chou Paste, 453. 
Chowder, Clam, 213. 

Com, 213 

Fish, Boston Style, 212. 

Cgney Island Style, 213. 
English Style, 213. 
Chowders, Derivation of Term, 212. 
Chutney, Apple, 595. 
Clam Broth, ii3- 
Clams, Cocktail of, 107, 367. 

Creamed; 113. 

Regarding, ro6. 

Relishes, 366. 
Claret Cup, 59. 
Cocoa, Breakfast, 52. 

Composition, etc., 50. 

Cracked, 51. 

Frapp6, 615. 
Codfish Balls, loi. 

Boiled, 90. 

Boned and Baked, 93. 

Fried, 96. 

Picked Up, 100. 
Coffee, Boiled, 49. 

Bread, 646. 

Composition, etc., of, 48. 

Filtered, 50. 
Collagen, 5. ' 
Compote of Bananas, 573. 

Chestnuts, 576. 

Figs, sii- 

Stuffed , Pears, 571, 



7i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Confections, Fig and Nuts, 637. 
Cookies, 451. 

Peanut, 449. 

Molasses Candy, 452. 
Cooking, Elementary Processes 
in, 10. 

Utensils, Care of, 661, 662, 
663. 
Consomm^, 199. 

Printanier, 197. 
Com, 312. 

Croquettes, 313. 

Custard, 313. 

Fritters, 313. 

Meal Relish, 328. 
Cover, The, 693. 
Crabs, 115. 

k la Creole, 345. 

Soft Shelled, Broiled, 119, 
Fried, 119. 
Saut6, 119. 
Cranberry Sauce, 574. 
Cream, Beating of, 31. 
Cream Cheese for Bouch^es, 490. 

Devonshire, 528. 

Double and Single, 31. 

English, 500. 

Forcemeat, Chicken, 256. 

Hamburg, 514. 

White Mountain, 464. 
Cream, Ice, Burnt Almond, 607. 

Caramel, 606. 

Chocolate, 606. 

Coffee, 608. 

Fig, 607. 

Ginger, 608. 

In Muskmelon, 565. 

Junket, 604. 

Neapolitan, 599. 

Peach, 612. 

Philadelphia, 599. 

Pineapple, 615. 

Pistachio, 607. 

Tutti-Frutti, 608. 

Vanilla, 604. 

With Nuts, etc., 608. 
Starch, 605. 
Cream Ices, Fruit, 605. 

Mocha, 460. 

Mock, 549. 
Cream of Chicken Glac6, 281. 
Cream of Tartar, 385, 387, 389. 



Cream, Orange, 512. 

Roll, Vienna, 490. 

Sauce, Burnt, 55. 

Scones, 417. 

St. Honors, 501. 

Tapioca, 537. 

White Mountain, 464. 
Creamed Chicken, Peppers, etc., 
346- 

Curried Shad Roe, 343. 

Dishes, 343. 
Croquette Mixture, to Shape, 26. 
Croquettes, Apple, 571. 

Cheese, 382. 

Chestnut, 534. 

Chicken and Sweetbread, 251. 

Egg or Easter, 67. 

Kentucky Com, 313. 

Macaroni, Mushroom, etc., 
252. 

Mushroom, 321. 

Potato, 292. 

Sweet, and Almond, 294. 

Pork, German Style, 158. 

Rice with Raspberries, 572. 

Rice, Plain and Savory, 333. 

Sweet Rice, 335. 

Veal, 252. 
Croustades, Anchovy, 368. 

Bread, 28. 

Caviare, 369. 

Pastry, 29. 

Pit6 de foie gras in, 370. 

Potato, 29. 

Rice, 29. 
Croutons, Bread and Cheese,' 379. 

For Soup and Garnishing, 28. 

Orange, 489. 

Puff Paste, 219. 

Ham, 161. 
Crown Roast of Lamb, 140. 
Curranta^ie, $8. 
Currant Jelly, 589. 
Currants, Bottled, 586. 

Spiced, 594. 

Washing, 34. 
Ctu-ry of Duck, 347. 

Macaroni, 346. 
Custard, Beef Tea, 651, 

Boiled, 499. 

Chestnut, 504. 

Renvers^e, 505; 



INDEX 



ytg 



Custard — Continued. 

Chicken, 651. 

Chocolate, 503. 

Chocolate, with Snow Eggs, 
502. 

English Cream, 500. 

Firm, 503. ' 

Fried, 505. 

Maple, 503. 

Pineapple, 505. 

Renvers6e, 504. 

Savory, 651. 

St. Honors Cream, 501. 
Cutting and Folding, 20. 



Dates with Cream, Stuffed, S7S- 
Daubing, 21. 
Devonshire Cream, 528. 
Digestion, Conditions for 
Stomach, 677. 

Gastric, 676. 

Intestinal, 675, 677. 

Physiology of, 674. 

Of Starch, 7,675,678. 
Dinner, Announcement of, 688. 

Styles of Serving, 689. 

The Home, 701. 
Dinner Party, Invitation to, 687. 
Hour and Length of , 688 
Dinners, Little, 700. 
Dough, Description of, 384. 

Kneading, 398. 

Shaping Bread, 400. 
Doughnuts, 456. 

Raised, 433. 
Duck, Curry of, 347. 

Salad, 364. 

Salmi of, 347. 
Ducks, Canvas Back, etc., 183. 

Domestic, Roasted, 175. 

StufHingfor, 175. 

E 

Eclairs, Chocolate, 454. 

Queen, 454. 
Egg and Bread Crumb, 25-26. 
Egg and Cress Salad, 358. 

Endive Salad, 359. 

Wine, 652. 



Egg — Continued. 

Tomato Jelly Salad, 360. 

Croquettes, 67. 

Loaf with Asparagus, 66. 

Nogg, 56-57,652. 
Eggplant, 299. 
Egg SoufHd, 651. 
Eggs k la Buckingham, 76. 

k la Parisienne, 74. 

Beating of, 30. 

Beauregard, 66. 

Boiled, 64-5. 

Composition, 60. 

Curious Ways of Cooking, 63. 

Fried, 75. 

Hard Boiled, Bechamel, 66. 
With Noodles, etc., 68. 

How to Add to Soups, etc., 23. 
Keep as "Left Over," 

Preserve, 62. 1 

Tell Whether Fresh, 62. 
Moulded in Pimentos, 74. 
Poached, 69. 
Poached, Counters, 71. 

Creole Style, 72. 

French Style, 70. 

Hygienic Style, 70. 

In Consomm6, 71. 

In Anchovy Toast, 70. 

Sicilian Style, 72. 

Celery, 71. 

With Salmon, 71. 
Spinach, 70. 
Salpicon of, in Casseroles, 72. 
Scrambled, 75. 

With Anchovies, etc., 

344- 
With Cheese, 344. 
With Tomatoes, 76, 345, 
Shirred au Miroir, 72-73. 
In Tomatoes, 73. 
With Forcemeat, 74. 
Potato, 74. 
Snow, 514. 
Soft Boiled with Tomatoes, 

65- 
Stuffed and Fried, 67. 

au Gratin, 67. 

For Picnics, 68. 

With Salad, 67. 
Sur Le Plat, 72. 



720 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Eggs — Continued. 

Vermicelli, 66. 

With Brown Butter, 75. 
Entrees, Divisions of, 245. 

Items Concerning, 245. 

Utensils for Making, 246. 



Fanchonettes. l^liion, 479. 

Pineaprf"; 479- 

PumpK^I'iSi. 
Fat, Care of, 15. 

For Frying, etc., 27. 

Smoking Hot, 13. 

Tests for Hot, 13. 
Fats, Where -Pound, s- 
Fermentation, Alcoholic, 396, 

Artificial, 385. 

Spontaneous, 3.85. 
Figs, Stewed, 575. 

With Jelly and Cream, 511. 
Filling, Charlotte Russe, 524. 

Fig, 468. ' 

Lemon or Orange, 469. 

Orange, 438. 

Pineapple, 468. 
Finnan Haddie Boiled, 100. 

Delnaonico, 100. 
Fire, Building of, 3. 

For Cake Making, 423. 
Fish k la Crgme, 104. 

Baking of, 88. 

Boiling of, 86. 

Broiling of, 87. 

Cakes, 103. 

Chemical Composition, 80. 

Chops, 103. 

Cream Forcemeat, 257. 

Forcerheat, Shells of, 260. 

Fried, 89. 

In Court Bouillon, 86. 

In Curry Sauce, 104. 

In Season, ^59'. 

Preparation for Cooking, 84. 

Saut6, 89. 

Stufifiing, 88, 92-93. 

Timbales, 260. 

To Bread for Frying, 26. 

To Determine Freshness, 83. 

Trussing of, 88. 

Turbot, 104. 
Flageolet, 305. 



Flavoring Sweet Dishes, 496. 
Flirts, Aunt Sallie's, 539. 
Floating Island, 502. 
Flounder, Stuffed with Force 
meat, 97. 

Stuffy with Potato, 97. 

WithTeas, 94. 
Fondant, 630. 

Maple, 633. 

Working and Using, 631. 

Tutti Frutti, 633. 
Food, Definition of, i. 

In Asthma, 643. 

Chronic Rheumatism, 643 
Diabetes, 642. 
Malaria, 645. 
Scurvy, 645. 
Season, 658. 
Tuberculosis, 645. 
Typhoid Fever, 644. 

Effect of Unsuitable, 678. 

Object in Cooking, 2. 

Office in Body, 664, 665, 666 

Principles, The Five, 3. 
Forcemeat, Bass, 99. 

Chicken Cream, 257. 
Sauce, 257. 

Composition and Use, 256. 

Fillets of Chicken, etc., 271. 

Fish Cream, 257. 

For Mousse, 265. 

With Mushrooms, Game, 261 

Quenelle, 256, 258. 

Sausage, 176. 

Styles of Moulding, 259, 263 

To Mould and Cook, 258. 
Fowl, Forcemeat for Boned, 176. 

For Broiling, To Dress, 166 

For Fricassee, To Dress, 166 

Steamed, 182. 

To Clean and Draw, 164. 
FrappS, Cantaloupe, 616. 

Coffee, 616. 

Cranberry, 616. 

Strawbery Souffle, 623. 
Frapp6s, 615. 
French Dressing, 353. 
Fritter Batter, 272; 541. 
Fritters, Apple, 542. 

Com,3i3. 

Golden Ball, 542. 

Parsnip, 314. 



INDEX 



721 



Frog's Legs, 119. 

Fried, 121. 

Saut6, 121, 

And in Sauce, 121. 
Frozen Desserts, Regarding, 596. 
Fruit Centrepiece, 566. 

Composition, etc., 557. 

Cup, 615. 

Flavors, To Bring Out, 506. 

In Season, 660. 

Preservation of, 578-9. 

Serving of Fresh, SS9~S66- 

Time to Eat, 558. 
Frying, 12. 

Utensils for, 14. 
Fudge, 635. 



Galantine of Chicken orTurkey , 176. 
Garnishes for Fowl, etc., 68i. 

Game, 681. 

Soup, 214, 219. 
• Sweet Dishes, 496. 
Garnishing, 679. 
Gelatine, How to Use, 495. 

Proportion to Liquid, 506. 
German Crisps, 451. 

Rings, 451. ^ 
Gingerbread, Fairy, 450. 

New York, 445. 

Rochester, 444. 
Ginger Nuts, English, 449. 
Ginger Snaps, 452. 
Glaze for Bread and Rolls, 35. 

Meat, etc., 234. 
Gluten in Wheat, 393. 
Gnocchi a la Romaine, 380. 

auGratin, 329. 
Golden Buck, 383. 
Goose, Young Domestic, 174. 
Grape Catsup, 594. 

Fruit, Service of, 560-561. 

Juice, 576. 

Preserves, 583. 

Sponge,.si3. 

Wine, 59. 
Grouse, Broiled, 184. 

Roasted, 184. 
Gruel and Egg (Caudle) ,651. 

Oatmeal, 646. 

Flour and Meal, 647. 
Gumbo Soup. 211. 



H 

Haddock, etc.. Baked, 92. 

And Oysters, Matelote, 91. 
Halibut and Lobster Hollandaise, 

243- 
Halibut, Baked, 91. 

Steaks ard Oysters, 92. 
Turbans with Forcemeat, 94. 
Lobst' p9. 
Potato h 'is, 94. 
Turbans, Tor > Sauce, 94 
Ham and Bacon, Tl Cure, 156. 
Egg Sandwiches, 372. 
Baked with Cider, 160. 
Boiled, 160. 
Broiled, 161. 
Cooked in Casserole, 161. 
Croutons, 161. 
Sandwiches, Hot, 346. 
Timbales, 279. 
Hare, Belgian, 186. 

Curry of, 182. 
In Casserole, 187. 
Hearts, Strawberry, 491. 
Heat Indicator, 37. 
Herbs, Fine Cooked, 23. 
Hermits, 452. 
Hominy Balls, 329. 
Hors d'CEuvres, 365. 
Horseradish Dressing, 364. 

With Apple Sauce, 243. 
Hospitality and Entertaining, 
684. 



Ice a Cake, To, 466. 

Ice with Royal Icing, To, 467. 

Ices, Cream, 599* 

Ices, Individual, 600. 

Freezing and Moulding, 602 

Serving, 603, 625. 

Water, 601. 
Icing, Almond, 463. 

Boiled Chocolate, 465. 
Maple, 465. 
Pineapple, 465. 

Butter, 460. 
' Caramel, 464. 

Chocolate with Syrup, 461. 

Cooked, 463. 

Fondant, 466 



722 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Icing — Continued. 

Ice Cream or Soft, 461. 

Marshmallow, 466. 

Materials for, 459. 

Orange Cake, 438. 

Kping with Ornamental, 467. 

Utensils for, 459. 

Water, 460. 

Chocolate, 461. 
White Mountain Cream, 464. 



Jam, Blackberry or Strawberry, 

587- 
Rhubarb, 587. 

Jams, 581. 
elly. Aspic, 273-4-5. 

Asparagus Salad in, 354. 

Bpned Quail In, 279. 

Timbales of Ham in, 279 

Lobster in, 279. 

Tongue in, 278. 
Canned Peach, 571. 
Celery, 360. 
Coffee, 508. 
Cranberry, 575. 
Currant, etc., 589. 
Figs and Cream with, 511. 
Ivory, 510. 

Lemon and Orange, 507. 
With Orange Sections, 508. 
Rhubarb, 509. 

And Banana Cream, 509. 
Sauteme, 508. 
Sherry with Raisins, 510. 
Strawberry, 510. 
Tomato, 277. 

With Nut Salad, 360. 

Egg Salad, 360. 
Wine, 508. 
Jellies, Regarding, 581. 

Double Moulding of, 507. 
Uses of Fruit and Wine, 507. 
Jellied and Pickled Feet, 162. 

Apples, 569^5 70- 
Jumbles; Soft, 452. 
Junket, Devonshire, 527. 
Egg with Cream, 653. 
Plain, 527. 

Plain Variations of, 528. 
With Wine, 654. 



K 

Komlet, 312. 

Griddle Cakes, 420. 
Koumiss, 56. 
Kromeskies, 253. 



Lady Fingers, 436. 

Lady Locks, 489. 

Lamb Chops, Bussy, 144. 

Catalane, 144. 

Chaudfroid of , 283. 
Lamb, Crown Roast of, 140. 

Kidney Stew of, 144. 

Loin, Best End of, 269. 

Roast, 142. 
Larding, 21. 
Leaven, 385-6. 

Leavened Bread,Early Use of ,391. 
Leavening Agents, Proportions, 

39°- 
Lemon Cake, 444. 

Custard Pie, 480. 

Fanchonettes, 479. 

Jelly, 507. 

Queens, 447. 

Sauce, 550-552. 
Lemons, Preparing for Use, 34. 
Lemonade, 57. 

Irish Moss, 648. 

Pineapple, 58. 
Lobster, Broiled Live, 118. 

Creamed, 118. 

Creole Style, 344. 

Curry of, 116. 

Cutlets, 117. 

Rushmore, 118. 

Salad, 365. 

Sandwiches, 372. 

Souffl6, 255. 

Stuffed, Narragansett Pier, 
116. 

Timbales, Jellied, 279. 
Lobsters, Boiling, etc., 114. 

Regarding, 113. 

M 

Macaroni and Cheese au Grratin, 

T, , 337- 
Baked, 337. 
Moulded, 336. 



INDEX 



723 



Macaroni — Continued. 

And Tomatoes, 337. 
Mushrooms, 322. 

Curry of, 346. 

Italienne, 336. 

Kidneys, etc., 324. 

Milanesi, 335. 

Ragout, 262. 

Regarding, 335. 
Macedoine of Fruit and Nuts, 508. 
Mackerel, Broiled, 95. 

Salt, Broiled, 102. 
Marguerites, 457. 
Marinade, Cooked, 27, 243. 

Uncooked, 28. 
Marketing, 656-657. 
Marmalade, Jams, Butters, 580. 
Marmalade, Apple, etc., 588. 

Orange, 588. 

And Apple, 588. 

Pineapple, 587. 

Rhubarb, 587. 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 237. 
Measuring, 19. 
Melons, To Serve, 564-565- 
Menu, Balanced, Family of Six, 672. 
Referring to, 668, 669, 
670, 671. 

Christmas, 710. 

Colonial Tea, 710. 

Easter Dinner, 711. 

Home Dinner, 703. 

Lawn Fete, 711. 

Lenten Luncheon ,711. 

Representative Dinner, 699. 

Thanksgiving Dinner, 709. 

The Dinner, 698. 

Wedding Breakfast, 712. 
Meringue, ItaUan, 464. 

Pie and Pudding, 555. 

Swedish, 437. 
Meringues, 455. 

Mushroom, 456. 

With Strawberries, 456. 
Milk, Care of, 54, 658. 

Composition, etc., 53. 

Peptonized, 650. 

Sterilized and Pasteurized,5S. 
Milling Methods, 395. 
Mineral Matter, Where Found, 4. 
Mirepoix, 234.. 
Mirlitons, 490. 



Mould, Lining with Lady Fingers, 

497- 
Ma Hiding in Aspic, 275. 

Double, 276. 
Mousse, 621. 

Or Mousseline, 265. 
Caramel, 622. 
Chestnut, 622. 
Forcemeat for, 265. 
Peach, etc., 622. 
Pineapple and Jelly, 623. 
Quail, 265. 
Muffins, Blueberry, 417. 
Com Meal, 416. 
Date, 417. 
Entire Wheat, 416. 
General Rule for, 416. 
Twin Mountain, 417. 
Mushrooms, Agaricus Campes- 

tr6s, 318. i 
k la Algonquin, 321. 
Aminita, 318. 
Boleti with Bacon, 322. 
Cepes k la Dumas, 324. 
Clavaria with Cheese, 323 
Cooked under Glass, 321. 
Coprinus Comatus and 

Oysters, 322. 
Croquettes, 321. 
Essence of, 234. 
Nutritive Value, etc., 318. 
Preparation to Cook, 319. 
Puff Ball Stew, 320. 

Recipes for, . 

Russulae k la Bordelaise, 328. 

Scalloped, 320. 

Stewed, 319. 

Stuffing for Pimentoes, 323. 

Tomatoes, 323. 
To Keep Temporarily, 319. 
With Calves Brains, 322. 

Cauliflower, 30b. 

Kidneys, 324. 

Macaroni, 322. 
Mutton, Boiled, 140. 
Chops, Broiled, 141. 

Marchale, 143. 

Casserole, 143. 

Pan Broiled,- 142. 

Fried, 142. 
Composition, Cuts, etc., 

136-8. 



724 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Mutton — Continued. 
Haricot, 250. 
Leg Roasted, 138. 

Boned and Stuffed, 139. 
Rechauf6e, 347. 

Creole, 248. 

"With Macoroni, 249. 
Saddle of, 139. 
Stew, 141. 



N 



Nitrogen, 665. 
Noodles, 216. 



Office of Food Principles, 666. 
Okra, Cooking of, 317. 

Gumbo Soup from Fresh, 
211. 

Salad, 358. 

Saut6, Creole Style, 317. 
Olives, Service of, 367, 697. 

Sttxffed, 367. 
Omelet, Breakfast Cereal, 329. 

Formula for Three Egg, 78. 

French, 77. 

Mrs. Grrant's, 79. 

Orange, 348. 

Pineapple, 546. 

Puffy, 78. 

Rice, 79. 

Rum, 546. 

Strawberry Jam, 547. 
Omelets, Regarding, 76. 

Starch Foundation, 79. 
Onion Juice, To Extract, 25. 

Souffle, 302. 
Onions, Cooking, 302. 

As Flavoring, 24. 

Stuffed, 302. 
Orangeade, 57. 
Orange Cream, 512. 

Croutons, 489.' 

Curd, 489. 

Marmalade, 588 

Omelet, 348. 

Sabayon Sauce, 551. 

Sauce, sso, 554- 

Salad, 363-364. 
Orangjes, Serving, 560-561. 
Ox-tails, Braised, 135. 



Oyster Cocktails, 107, 367. 
Forcemeat Balls, 210. 
Pie, no. 

Salad in Ice Bowl, 362. 
Souffl6, 255. 
Stew, 109, 342,343. 
Oysters, and Macaroni, 109-110. 
As Relishes, 366. 
Broiled with Bacon, in. 

With Celery, 108. 

Maltre d'Hotel, etc. ,111, 
Chafing Dish Cookery of, 342 
Creamed, 108. 
Fried, III. 

In Batter, 112. 
Opening, 106. 
Scalloped, no. 
Season of, etc., 105. 
With Cream, 342. 

Brown Sauce, 109. 



Palmettes, 265. 
Panada, Bread, 258. 

Flour, 258. 
Pancakes, Berlin, 433. 
Pancreatic Juice, 675. 
Parfait and Mousse Mixtures, 600, 

Angel, 618. 

Caramel, 619. 

Chocolate, 619. 

Coffee, 619. 

Ginger, 620. 

Grape Juice, 619. 

Maple, 6s I. 

Mignonette, 620. 

Sunshine, 619. 
Parsnip Fritters, 314. 
Parsnips, Cookery of, 314. 
Partridge, Roasted, etc., 185. 
Paste, Chopped, 473. 

Chou, 453. 

Puff, Baking, 486. 

Puff Making, 484. 
Pastry, Classification of, 471. 

Cream, 474-475. 

Digestion of, 470. 

Flaky, 474. 

Flour, To Distinguish, 394, 

Flour, When to Use, 394. 

Pastry Keeping, 473. 



INDEX 



725 



Pastry — Continued. 

Materials and Utensils for, 

472- 

Plain, 473. 

Potato, 475. 
Patty Shells, 488. 
Pea Timbales, 312. 
Peas, Cookery of , 3 1 1 . 
Peach and Rice Meringue, 573. 
Peaches Pyramid of, 572. 
Pears, Preserved with Ginger, 583. 
Pepper, Spiced, 3s. 
Peppermints, 632. 
Pfeffer Nusse, 449. 
Pickle, Green Tomato Sweet, 592. 

French, 593, 

Indian, 591- 

Pears, Peaches, Sweet, etc., 

S9I- 
Pickled Catdiflower, 592. 

Limes, Sweet, S93- 
Pickles, Concerning, 590. 

Cucumber, Sweet, 594. 

OHve Oil, S93- 

Sour, 590. 
Pie, Apple, 477. 

Etherial, 477. 
Mother's, 478. 

Berry, 482. 

Cranberry, 478-479. 

Custard, 481. 

Date, 483. 

Fig, 482. 

Green Tomato, 478. 

Lemon Custard, 480. 

Making, 475. 

Mince, 483. 

Mock Cherry, 478. 

One Crust, 476-477. 

Orange, 480. 

Pineapple, 479. 

Prime, 478. 

Pumpkin, 480. 

Rhubarb, 482. 

Squash, 481. 
Pigeons, Casserole Style, 184. 

Stewed in Broth, 184. 
Pilaf, Turkish, 332. 
Pimentos, Eggs Moulded in, 74. 

Sti;ifled, 324. 
Pineapple and Orange, Frozen, 
562. 



Pineapple — Continued. 

Omelet, 546. 

Shredded, 562. 
Pineapples, Digestive Properties, 

562. 
Planked Shad, etc., 95. 
Polenta, 320. '' 

Sauce for, 330. 
Pop Overs, 412. 
Pork Chops, 157. 

Composition Cuts, etc., 155- 
• 156. 

Croquettes, 158. 

Crown of, 157. 

Salt, Country Style, 159. 

In Boston Baked Bears, 

ISP- 
Sausage with Apple Sauce, 

158. 
Sausage (Pork) with Beans, 

158. 
Tenderloin, 157. 
Potato and Almond Croquettes, 

294. 
Potato Cakes, 291. 

Croquettes and Boulettes, 

292. 
Nests, 297. 
Roses, 291. 
Turnips and Carrot Balls, 

293- 
Potatoes k la Maltre d'H6tel, 293. 
Anna, 293. 
Baked, 7, 289. 

Half Shell, 293. 

With Cheese, 296. 
Boiled, 7, 290. 
Broiled, 295. 
Delmonico, 295. 
Delmonico Cream Roll, 295 
Duchess, 291. 
Escalloped, 292. 
Franconia, 292. 
French Fried, 297. 
Hashed Brown, 296. 
Hashed White, 296. 
Imitation New, 289. 
Mashed, 290. 
Mashed Fish Service, sigi. 
Parisian, 294. 
Perfect, 289. 
Riced, 290. 



726 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Potatoes, Scalloped with Cheese, 
296. 

Syracuse Hot Salt, 293. 

Warmed in Milk, 296. 

Sweet, Candied, 295- 

Sweet, Southern Style, 294. 
Poultry, etc.. Boning of, 167-168. 

Composition, 163. 

Filleting, 170. 

Trussing for Boiling, 170. 

Trussing for Roasting, 169. 

Roasting, 171. 

Stuffing, 169. 

Season, 660. 
Preserves, Berry, 582. 

Citron or Watermelon, 585- 

Fig and Rhubarb, 586. 

General Rule for, 580. 

Grapes, 583. 

Quince and Sweet Apple, 586 

Strawberry, 584. 
Tomato, 586. 

Vanilla Chestnut, 585-586. 
.Proteids, 665-666. 
Pudding, Apple and Brown 
Bread, 535. 

Apple Tapioca, 536. 

Befry, Steamed, 534. 

Brown Betty, 530. 

Cabinet, 533. 

Carrot, 536. 

Castellane, 512. 

Cherry, 535. 

Cherry Souffle, 544. 

Chocolate Custard, 503. 

Christmas Plum, 532. 

Cottage, 541. 

Cracker Raisin, 531. 

Cuban, 532. 

Cumberland, 543. 

Easter, 515. 

English, 535. 

Frozen, 60 1.- 

Fruit, 536. ' 

Glac6, Plum, 608. 

Glac6, Rice, 623. 

Indian, Baked, 539. 

Indian Mock, 530. 

Indian Suet, 539. 

Indian Tapioca, 538. 

Nesselrode, 609. 

Rebecca, 515. 



Pudding — Continued. 

Rice, 516. 

Rice and Milk Baked, 538. 

Roman, 264. 

Sabayon, 624. 

Souffl6, 543. 

Sponge Batter, 545. 

St. Davids, 531. 

Sweet Potato, 533. 

Tapioca Fruit, 537. 
Custard, 537. 

Thanksgiving, 530. 

Tipsy, 502. 

Tomato and Cheese, 316. 

Vitos, 533. 

Yorkshire, 126. 
Puddings, Cooking of Steamed 

529- 

Foundation of, 493. 

Queen of, 531. 
Puffs, Chocolate, 454. 

Corn Meal, 416. 

German, 540. 
Puffets, Wheat, 417. 
Punch, Frozen, 624 

Fruit, 58. 

Hot Claret, 60. 

Tea, 625. 

Tomato, 625. 
Purde, Banana, 554. 

Beans and Tomato, 204 

Chicken, 202. 

Chestnut, 205. 

Jerusalem, Artichoke, 203. 

Lentil, Split Pea, etc., 203. 

Potato, 204. 
Purees, Service of, etc., 202. 
Pyramid of Peaches, 572. 



8uail Mousseline, 265. 
uails. Boned in Jelly, 279. 
Roasted, 185. 

Roasted in Grape Leaves, 186 
Queens, Lemon, 447. 

Vienna, 448. 
Quenelles, 258, 261. 



Rabbit, Cheese and Tomato, 383 

Welsh, 382. 
Rabbits, Regarding, 341. 



INDEX 



727 



Range, The Kitchen, 2. 
Raspberry Shrub, 59. 
Raspbernes with Rice Cro- 
quettes, 572- 
Refrigerator, Care of, 661. 
Regularity in Feeding, 641. 
Rhubarb Baked, 575. 

Marmalade, 587. 

Pie, 482. 

Preserved with Figs, 586. 
Rice, Boiled, 331. 

Cooking of, 331. 

Creole Style, 334. 

Croquettes, Plain, 333. 
Savory, 333. 
Sweet, 335. 

Hot, for Fruit Compotes, 334. 

Milanaise Fashion, 334. 

Regarding, 330. 

Savory, 332. 

With Bacon, 333. 

With Parsley, 334. 
Risotto, 332. 
Rissoles, 253. 
Roasting, 10. 
Roll, Vienna Cream, 490. 
Rolls, Coffee Brioche, 428. 

Crescents, 405. 

Parker House, 405. 

Rasped, 410. 

Salad or Luncheon, 405. 

Swedish, 406-418. 
Rosettes, Scandinavian, 542. 
Roux, 22. 
Rusks, Sponge, 654. 



Salad, Apple and Cress, 357. 
Asparagus, 354. 
Banana and Pimento, 364. 
Bird's Nest, 359. 
Cabbage, 356. 
Cauliflower and Beet, 358. 
Celery, Apple and Pepper, 

363. 
Celery and Cheese, 358. 
Celery, Cress, etc., 360. 
Celery Jelly, 360. 
Celery and Orange, 363. 
Celery, Pimento and Nut, 359. 
Chicken in Salad Rolls, 361. 



Salad — Continued. 

College, 364. 

Cress and Egg, 358. 

Cucumber for Fish, 357. 

Duck, 364. 

Egg and Tomato Jelly, 360. 

Endive, 354. 

Endive and Egg, 359. 

French Bean, 357. 

Grape, Orange and Nut, 364. 

Lobster, 365. 

Making, 350-351. 

Materials, Draining, 353. 

Materials, Preparation, 352. 

New Spinach, 359. 

Orange and Nut, 362 . 

Oyster, in Ice Bowl, 362. 

Pineapple, Pimento, etc., 363 

Plants, Cleansing, 351. 

Points in Making, 353. 

Potato, 355. 

Potato with Bacon, 355. 

Salmon, 361. 

Scallop, 362. 

Shad Roe and'Cucumber, 362 

Shrimp and Cucumber, 361. 

Sweetbread, Cucumber, etc., 
361. 

Stuffed Tomato, 356. 

Tomato, 355. 

Tomato and Cucumber, 356. 

Tomato Jelly*with Nuts, 360 
Sally Lunn, 409. 
Salmon, Baked in Paper, 91. 

Boiled, 90. 

Chartreuse of, 102. 

Mousse, 97. 

Salad, 361. 

Salted, 102. 

Salted, Boiled, etc., 102. 
Salpicon, Meaning of, 21. 
Samp, Baltimore, with Cream 

Sauce, 328. 
Sandwiches, Cheese, 373. 

Cheese and Salted Nut, 373. 

Chicken, 373. 

Cottage Cheese and Cress, 373 

Egg and Cress, 372. 

Ham and Egg, 372. 

Hot Ham, 346. 

Lobster, 372. 

Norwegian, 374. 



728 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Sandwiches — Continued. 

Preparation of, 370-371. 
Raw Beef, 373, 652. 
Russian, 373. 
Sardine, 371. 

Tongue and Rye Bread, 372. 
Sardines Canap6s, 369. 
Sardines and Spinach, 100. 
Sauce, AUemande, 224. 
Anchovy, 228. 
Asparagus, 223. 
Bechamel, 224. 
Bernaise, 236. 
Bread, 240. 
Brown, 229. 
Brown Tomato, 229. 
Caper, 228. 
Cauliflower, 226. 
Celery, 225. 

Chantilly Apple, etc., 243. 
Chaudfroid, 231. 
Cheese, 224, 227. 
Cherry, 241. 
Chili, S94 ■ 

Cooked for Salad, 239. 
Colbert, 236. 
Cream, 223. 

Cucumber, 228, 235, 240. 
Currant Jelly, 230. 
Curry, 226. 

Drawn or Melted Butter, 228. 
Egg, 228. 

English Apple with Horse- 
radish, 243. 
Espagnole, 232. 
yvench, 236. 
German, 228. 
Giblet, 173. 
HoUandaise, 235. 
Horseradish, 227, 241. 
Lobster, 227, 235. 
Mayonnaise, 237. 

Green, 238. 

Jelly, 238. 

Red, 238. 

Suggestions for, 237-238. 

White, 238. 
Mint, 241. 
Mousseline, 236. 
Mushroom, White, 225. 

Brown, 229. 
Nonpareil., 235.- 



Sauce — Continued. 

Olive, 230. 

Oyster, 227. 

Piquante, 230. 

For Polenta, Rice, etc., 330 

Prussian, 240. 

Soubise, 225. 

Supreme, 233. 

Supreme, Yellow, 224. 

Tartare, 238. 

Thick White, 223. 

Tomato, White, 226. 

Velouti, 224, 225, 233. 

Vileroi, 230. 

White, 223. 
Sauce, Sweet, 

Apple, 566. 

Apricot, 430, 553. 

Banana, 550. 

Brandy, 549. 

Burnt Cream, 555. 

Caramel, 555. 

Cherry, 554. 

Chocolate, 551, 610. 

Claret, 611. 

Coffee, 551, 611. 

Creamy, 552. 

Currant, 611. 

Currant Jelly, 553. 

Cranberry, 574. 

Frothy, 553. 

For Frozen Pudding, 6op. 

Hard, SS4-SSS- 

Lemon, 550, 552. 

Maraschino, 548. 

Mock Cream, 549. 

Mousseline, 551-552. 

Orange, 550,' 554. 

Royal, 550. 

Sabayon, 550. 

Strawberry, 553, 610. 

Tutti Frutti, 549. 

Yellow, 553. 
Sauces, Fine, 232. 

Fruit Juice, 553. 

Rouxfor, 222. 

Simple, 222. 

Sweet, Composition, 548, 

Synopsis of, 220, -221, 222. 
Saut^ing, 12. 
Savarin, 430. 
Scallop Salad, 362. 



INDEX yag 

Scallops, 107. Soup— Continued. 

Deep Shell, 1 1 2, Lettuce, 201. 

Fned, 112. Ox-tail, 200. 

Scones, Cream, 417. Sour Cherry, 214. 

Service k la Russe, Detail of, 697. Tomato, 201. 

Serving au Gratin, 20. Tomato and Pea, 202. 

a la Jardiniere, 2 1 . Wine of Sago, 214. 

Shad or White Fish, Planked, 95. K:ettle,'The, 192. 

Roe, Broiled, 95. Making, Classification, etc., 

Creamed, 343. 188-189. 

Croquettes, 97. Stock, 191. 

Curried, 343. Brown, 198. 

Maryland Style, 98 Bouillon, 198. 

Salad, 362. Clearing of, 196. 

Sherbet, Coffee, 614. Pish, 197. 

Grape, 614. Formula, for Standard, 

Orange, 614. ip8. 

Peach, 613. Kinds of, 195. 

Preserved Fruit ,613. Jellying of , 1 94. 

Sherbets, General Rule (Water Materials Used in, 191- 

Ices),6oi. 192. 

Shortcake, Banana, 540. Proportion of Ingredi- 

Strawberry, 540. ents, 195. 

Shortcake, 540. Timeof Cooking, 193. 

Shrimp Salad , 3 6 1 . Vegetable ,197. 
Shrimps, 116. Soups, Formula for Cream, 205. 

Smelts, Boiled, 90 Garnishes for, 219. 

Fried, 96. Balls, Chicken Liver, 

Soda, 384, 387. 218. 

Soda, Bicarbonate of, 338. Balls, Egg, 215. 

S0UIH6, Chicken; 256, 280. Celery and Lettuce, 218. 

Cheese, 379- Custard Chicken, 217. 

,, ra^ ^ 'j/i- Custard Royal, 215. 

Souffle, Cocoanut, 545 . Custard, White, 215. 

Coffee, S43- Noodles, 216.. 

Custard, 544. p^te k Chou, 218. 

Lobster, 255. Peari Bariey, 217. 

Macaroon, 544. Pug p^^e Croutons, 219. 

Omelet, S4S- Quenelles, 218. 

Oyster, 255. Tapioca, Macaroni, 216. 

Tongue, 280. Chestnut Timbale, 216. 

Soup, Almond Milk, 649. Other Timbale, 217. 

White, 200. Vegetables, 217. 

Chicken, 200. Yolks of Eggs, 215. 

Consomm^, 199. Thickening for, 190. 
Creamof Com, 207. Spaghetti, Moulds Lined with 

Beans and Onions, 208. 260. 
Mushroom, 207. Spinach Balls, 310. 

Oyster, 208. k la Bechamel, 310. 

Sorrel, 207. Cookery of, etc., 309. 

English Beef, 199. With Crown of Eggs, 309. 

Gumbo, 211 With Sardines ,309. 



730 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Sponge in Bread Making, 401. 

Blackberry, 372- 

Grape, 513. 

Grape Juice, 349. 

Strawberry, 513. 
Springerlie, 452. 
Sqtiabs, Broiled, 184, 653. 
Squash. Served in Shell, 298. 

au Gratin, 298. 

Stuffed with Shrimp, Sum- 
mer, 298. 
Starch, Cookery of, 6. 

Digestion of, 7, 675, 676, 678. 

Solubilit>r, etc., of, 5-6. 
Stew, Brunswick, 211. 
Stewing, 16. 
Stirring, 19. 
Strawberry Cannelon Glac6, 617. 

Charlotte Glac6e, 611. 

Charlotte Russe, 521. 

Hearts, 491. 

Jam, 587. 

Jelly, 510. 

Preserves, 584. 

Sauce, 5S3-SSS- 

Shortcake, 540. 

Sponge, 513. 

Tartlets, 491. 

Vol-au-Vent, 491. 
Strawberries, Canned, 589. 

French Fashion, 563. 
Stuffing, Bread, 172, 173. 

Chestnut, 172. 

for Ducks, 175. 

Oyster, 17a. 

■Potato, 172. 

Potato and Walnut, 174. 

Poultry and Small Birds, 169. 

Prune and Walnut, 175. 

Sausage, 176. 

St. James, 173. 

Turkish, 173. 
Succotash, 313. 
Sugar, Boiling of, 627. 

Degree of Boiling, 628. 

Spun, 537. 
Sultana Roll, Claret Sauce, 607 
Sweetbre'ad, Croquettes, 252. 

Cucumber, etc.. Salad, 361. 

Cutlets, 252. 

Fried, 153. 

Larded and Baked, 153. 



Sweetbreads, Chaudfroid of, 283, 

Newburg, 345. 
Syllabub, Wine, 505. 

Leoion, 526. 
Syrup for Ices, 629. 

Without a Gauge, 629. 



Table, Covers and Linens, 691. 

Decorations, 694, 696. 

Lighting the, 695. 

Seating Guests at, 680. 

Styles of, 691. 
1 Cook's Time, 38, 40. 

Of Proportions, 40-41. 

Of Weights and Measures, 
41,42. 
Tarts, Banberry, 489. 

Coffee, 492. 

Melba, 492. 
Tartlets, Strawberry, 491. 
Tea, Accompaniments of, 46. 

Ball, The, 47. 

Beef, 648. 

Composition of, 45. 

Concerning, 45. 

Flaxseed, 646. 

For Large Companies, 47. 

Iced, 47. 

Infusion, 46. 

Five O'clock, 706-707. 
Teas, 706. 
Terrapin. Concerning, 120. 

Mock, 249. 
Timbale Cases, Swedish, 272. 
Timbale, Cheese, 380. 

Chicken, 259, 263. 

Fish, 260. 

For Consomm^, 217. 

Pea, 312. 

Ham in Jelly, 279. 

Lobster in Jelly, 279. 
Toast, Cream, 412. 

Cream with Cheese, 412 

Milk, 411. 

Properly Made, 411. 

Tomato, 412. 
Tomato and Cheese Pudding, 316 

Biscuit, 406. 

Catsup, 594. 

Custard, Canned, 316. 



INDEX 



731 



Tomato — Continued. 
lelly, 277. 

Ptuich, 635. 

Salad, 236-255. 

Salad Stuffed, 256. 
Tomatoes, Broiled, 215. 

Scalloped with Onions, 314. 

Stewed, 314. 

Stuffed Carolina, 315. 

Sicilienne, 315. 

With Mushrooms ,323. 
"Tossing," 20. 
Tripe, Broiled, 135. 

Curried, 135. 

Poulette Style, 135. 

To Pickle, 134. 
Turkey, Boned and Roasted, 176. 

Galantine, 176-177. 

R6chaufE6, 247. 

Roast, 163, 171. 

Stuffing, St. James, 173. 

Trussing, 169. 
Turkish Pilaf, 332. 
Turnip Balls, 304. ^ 

Turnip Pur^e, 303. 
Turnips in Cream, 304. 
Tumipd, Cookery of, 303. 
Turtle, Concerning, 119. 

Ragout , Green ,120. 

Scalloped, Green, 121. 



Veal, Composition, Cuts, etc., 146. 

Cutlets, 148. 

Fillet and Fricandeau, 14S. 

Loaf, 150. ^ 

Pot Pie, 149. 

Pressed, 151. 

Roasted, 147. 

Rolls k la Jardiniere, 269. 

Sweetbread, 152. 
Vegetables, Composition and 
Cooking, 284. 

Preparing Canned, 288. 

Salt in Boiling, 287. 
' Season for, 659. 

Served with Fish, 682. 



Vegetables — Continued. 

Served with Roast Beef, etc., 
682. 

Steaming, 288. 
Venison, Cuts, etc., 185. 

Saddle, 185. 

Steak and Ctitlets, 186. ■ 
ViMina Cream Roll, 490. 
Vol-au-Vent, Shaping of, 486-487 

Strawberry, 491. 

w 

Wafers, Almond, 450. 

Graham, 450. 
Waffles, Com Meal and Rice, 419. 

Rich, 420. 

Sour Milk, 420. 
Water, Barley, 645. 

Cooking over Hot, 20. 

Currant and Tamarind, 646. 

Definition of, i . 

Expansion in Composition, 

385- ■ 

Pure Drinking, Essential, 44, 

Rice, 646. 

Simmering and Boiling, 9. 

Where Found, 4. 
Wheat Grain, Structtire of, 393. 
Wheyc Lemon, etc., 650. 
Whip, Royal Cream, 526. 
Wine, Dinner, Service of, 694. 
Wine, Grape, 59. 

Syllabub, 505. 



Yeast, 385-386. 

Bread, 396. 
' Cake Made with, 426. 

In Bread Making, 395, 

Potato, 401. 

Cake, 395-396. 



Zwieback, 408. 






5- V 



