LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



00004303630 # 






tft&Wti 



•pp'. 



wwm 




Class X^ILS. 

Book ■ fil frk 



Copyright N°. 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



->' ' 



w 



Columbia 
Cook Book 




PRESS OF 

THE BRADLEY 4 GILBERT COMPANY 

LOUISVILLE, KY 



[copyrighted] 



{THrUBRAHY OF 



CONGRESS, 

Received 

; 



$•■■ , ;s auxxc No.l 

3(oJTc/ 



1 A'V' 



Hi 



KNOWING 



i * 



: $ 



: $ 



the noble cause to which all profits 
arising from the sale of this took 
are to be applied, we trust fhe buy- 
ers may be many, and we desire to 
say to each and all that the Recipes 
contained herein require fresh ingre- 
dients—the best the market affords 
Tor such call or see 



Geo. W. Nichols 

THE LEADING GROCER 



1 



1 1 



i $ 
J I 



i 



$ j ? \ 






1\\\ goods guaranteed to give satisfac- 
tion or your money cheerfully refunded 



WEST SEVENTH STREET 
COLUMBIA J. TENNESSEE 



CONTENTS, 



PAGE. 

Beverages 117 

Bread 58 

Cakes 69 

Candies 123 

Canning Fruit 119 

Catsups 136 

Chafing Dish 32 

Cheese Straws 34 

Croquettes 28 

Custards 107 

Eggs 24 

Fancy Desserts 104 

Fillings 80 

Fish 15 

Fish and Meat Sauces 16 

Food for the Sick 137 

Fruit Juices 114 

Game and Poultry 19 

Grains or Cereal Foods ... 56 

Ice Cream 109 

Jellies and Jams 121 

Macaroni and Spaghetti. . . 53 

INDEX 



PAGE 

Meats 34 

Meat Sauces 16 

Measures and Weights 57 

Miscellaneous 118 

Omelets 27 

Oysters , 13 

Pastry 87 

Pickles 125 

Poisons and their Antidotes. 139 

Preserves 124 

Puddings 94 

Punches. 115 

Relishes, Cold. 41 

Relishes, Hot 43 

Salads and Salad Dressing. 44 

Sandwiches 33 

Soups 7 

Sweet Sauces 102 

Tea Cakes 82 

Vegetables 49 

Water Ices 113 

Wines 115 

141 



MAURY DRY GOODS CO. 

THE LEADING DRY GOODS STORE 
THE LEADING CLOTHING STORE 
THE LEADING CARPET STORE 

THREE STORES IN ONE. 

EVERYTHING ON THE riRST ELOOR EOR 
THE CONVENIENCE Or OUR CUSTOMERS. 

Our Goods the Best «** Our Prices the Lowest 
Vou are Always Welcome at Our Store. 



NAURY DRY GOODS COMPANY. 

WEST SEVENTH STREET, COLUMBIA, TENN. 

II BRADLEY & GILBERT COMPANY 

( INCORPORATED) 

...PRINTERS... 

BINDERS j» STATIONERS 

LITHOGRAPHERS 

PAPER BOX MAKERS 

Ha=»r *** fente Sjgjies 

THIRD AND GREEN STREETS. LOUISVILLE, KY. 



PREFACE. 



TN issuing a second and enlarged edition of the Columbia 
X Cook Book, the Ladies' Aid Society of the First Baptist 
Church of Columbia, Tennessee, has endeavored to respond 
to the earnest and urgent request of an appreciative public. 

The first edition of this little book, which was published a 
few years since for the benefit of the Church, under the auspices 
and management of Misses Florence Sheppard and Sadie 
Kerr, met with unstinted praise and approval wherever it 
chanced to go, yielding a revenue to a worthy cause, for which 
they must ever feel profoundly grateful. 

It is the desire of the Ladies' Aid Society, in launching this 
second edition for public favor, that it be known that no effort 
or labor, however arduous, has been spared in an honest en- 
deavor to make this issue surpass in every respect the former 
one. 

It is also desired that this edition, like the first, be respect- 
fully dedicated to the Mothers, Wives, and Daughters of Co- 
lumbia, Tenn., who have so kindly and cheerfully responded 
to our petition for the information and subject-matter contained 
in this book. 

The many Recipes given have not been gathered at random 
from doubtful sources, but represent the actual experiences and 
practical tests of the many grand old housekeepers of our town, 



PREFACE. 



who give them to you over their own signatures. A recipe is 
only valuable from being tried and approved, and it is a self-evident 
fact that even a single dish spoiled, resulting from any culinary 
failure in attempting to compound the worthless recipes which 
are daily bandied about in newspapers and pamphlets, may be 
more than an equivalent in money to the price of this book. 

It is hoped that our efforts in compiling this edition may meet 
with generous judgment and consideration, and that it may 
serve to lefssen in some degree the innumerable, household cares 
and perplexities which sometimes overshadow even the most 
successful and happy homes. Should it do thus, and obtain 
the aim or end which prompted its publication, we shall not 
only feel more than repaid for our labors, but ever grateful to- 
ward a kind and generous people. 
Respectfully, 

The Ladies' Aid Society, 

First Baptist Church. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK 



SOUPS. 

White Broth. — Two large whole and well scraped carrots, 
one large whole well peeled turnip, one large whole peeled 
onion, one parsley root, two or three leaves of celery. Select 
a good knuckle of fine white veal, put in vessel and cover com- 
pletely with cold water, adding one tablespoonful of salt, and 
allow it to come to a boil; skim as scum rises (this is very im- 
portant) ; then add the above ingredients and boil slowly for 
about six hours on back of stove. Strain through cheese-cloth 
nto stone crock. mrs. w. b. Harrison. 

White Soup. — Put on to boil in cold water one chicken (a 
fat hen is best) cut into joints. Add one tablespoon salt, six 
pepper corns, one teaspoon of chopped onions, two tablespoons 
chopped celery. When tender remove chicken, which can be 
used for croquettes or other dishes, strain stock, and for one 
quart use one pint of heated milk or cream ; add one table- 
spoon each of flour and melted butter. Pour stock in slowly 
and cook until slightly thickened; then strain it into a bowl in 
which an egg has been slightly beaten; strain again. 

MRS. G. T. HUGHES. 

Cream of Celery Soup. — A pint of milk, a tablespoonful 
of flour, one of butter, a head of celery, a large slice of onion 
and a small piece of mace. Boil celery in a pint of water from 
thirty-five to forty minutes; boil mace, onion, and milk together. 
Mix flour with two tablespoons of cold milk and add to boiling 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



Use This Cook Book 



Linen Table Damask, 

64 to 72 inches 

wide, 

50c. to $1.50 a yard. 

Napkins 

to match in all the 

better grades of 

Damask. 



In the kitchen, and come to us for the 
SNOW-WHITE UNEN you'll need for 
the dining room. And ours is not only 
the best i,inen Store in this section, but 
the best Silk Store, and the best Dress 
Goods Store, and the best Carpet Store, 
and the best store to buy any of the varied 
lines we keep. Once our customer, we 
will serve you so well that you will feel 
no inclination to discontinue the rela- 
tionship. We sell the best goods at very 
little prices, but for instant cash only. 

If you see it in our ad it's so. 



McKENNON, ANDERSON & FOSTER 



COLUMBIA, TENNESSEE 



milk. Cook ten minutes. Mash celery in the water in which 
it has been cooked, and stir into boiling milk. Add butter, and 
season with salt and pepper to taste. Strain and serve imme- 
diately. The flavor is improved by adding a cupful of whipped 
cream when the soup is in tureen. mrs. w. p. morgan. 

Black Soup {excellent). — Put a knuckle of veal, beef, or a 
turkey frame on to boil about two hours before dinner. Slice 
some potatoes, carrots, and onions, which should be put into the 
pot after it has boiled an hour. Then add three tablespoons of 
browned flour, two of sugar, one-half teaspoon each of allspice, 
cloves, nutmeg, and black pepper, one cup of catsup, and a 
mall bunch of thyme. A few moments before taking up add 
a wine glass of port wine. mrs. a. m. hughes. 

Cheap Soup. — Put into as much water as you will need for 
soup, a small piece of fried beefsteak. After boiling add four 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



sticks of macaroni, half teacup of rice, one or two onions cut 
fine, and a small can of tomatoes. Boil till thick enough and 
add pepper and salt to taste. Serve very hot. 

MRS. J. M. SBEPPAED. 

Tomato Soup. — Place over the fire one quart of peeled 
tomatoes and a pinch of soda. Stew them soft and add one 
quart of boiling milk, seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter the 
size of an egg, and stir in a handful of rolled crackers. Canned 
tomatoes will take the place of fresh ones. If it be desired to 
remove the seed, strain. mrs. w. c. Harrison. 

Oyster Soup. — One cup sweet milk, one cup cold water, 
two handfuls cracker dust, juice of two cans oysters; season 
with salt and pepper. A small lump butter. Boil the above 
about twenty minutes and add oysters. The canned oysters 
should be washed and picked. mrs. d. w. leneaye. 

Green Corn Soup. — Take six well-filled ears of tender 
corn, run a sharp knife down the rows and split each grain ; 
then with the back of the knife scrape from the large to the 
small end of the ear. press out the pulp, leaving the hulls on 
the cob. Break the cobs, if long, put in cold water sufficient 
to cover, and boil half an hour. Strain off the water, put the 
corn water on again, and when boiling add the corn pulp and 
cook fifteen minutes, or until the raw taste is destroyed. Rub 
through a rather coarse colander, add salt and a pint of hot 
milk; if too thin, thicken with a little flour. A teaspoon of 
sugar may be added if preferred. A small quantity of cooked 
macaroni makes a very pretty and palatable addition to the 
soup. The soup is also excellent flavored with celery. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 

Gumbo File. — {Mrs. Jefferson Davis' .Recipe.) — One old 
chicken cut into joints and bits; the bones broken, the head 
and legs omitted; one dozen large oysters with their liquor; 
three large slices of unboiled ham ; half a large onion cut into 
slices; a bunch of sweet herbs tied in muslin; a carrot sliced 

2 



10 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

small, four cloves, half dozen allspice, three pinches of mace, 
a pinch of nutmeg, two-thirds of a teaspoon of salt (more if the 
ham has been boiled previously) ; a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
a little more white pepper, one tablespoon of file. Fry the 
chicken to a light brown; put in twice as much water as the 
amount of soup required ; add the seasoning, the ham, the herbs, 
and simmer for several hours. 

For a 6 o'clock dinner, put the gumbo over the fire at 1 
o'clock. When the chicken is cooked to shreds, take out the 
muslin bags of herbs and spice. Put in the oysters, with their 
liquor, just long enough to plump them. An even tablespoon 
of the file should be stirred in after the pot has been taken from 
the fire. The file must not boil. This course must be eaten 
with rice, a tablespoon being first put in the soup plate and the 
gumbo poured over it. 

File is composed of the young leaves of the sassafras, just 
as they have attained their maturity, but before they have 
reached their darkest shade of green. They are dried in the 
shade by the Indians, and finally pulverized. File may be 
obtained from the New Orleans French Market. 

MRS. JEFFERSON DAVIS. 

Cream of Corn Soup. — Put one pint of grated corn over 
the fire to stew for twenty minutes, strain, and add salt and 
pepper to taste, three tablespoons of butter or two pints of 
chicken or veal stock. Have ready one quart of boiling milk 
thickened with one tablespoon of flour and a little cold milk 
rubbed smooth; add the corn, and cook together one minute; 
take from the fire, add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs ; stir 
quickly and serve. mrs. john trotwood moore. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. — Six teaspoons of flour and two 
ounces of butter; mix together in a saucepan, then add three 
quarts of white broth ; put in a bunch of asparagus, a table- 
spoon of salt, twenty whole peppers, and boil thoroughly for 
about forty minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, add one cup 
of cream and serve. mrs. w. b. harrison. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 11 

Oyster Gumbo, or Gumbo File Ingredients. — One grown 
chicken, four medium-sized onions, heaping tablespoon of 
browned flour, heaping teaspoon of file, large tablespoon of 
butter, nine quarts of water, fifty oysters, pepper and salt to 
taste. Cut up the chicken and fry it; then put it in the kettle 
with the water and sliced onions, and boil slowly about five 
hours, reducing it to half. Take out the bones, leaving the 
meat, and thicken with flour. Add the file and oysters, and 
cook just enough to curl the lips of the oysters as in other 
oyster soup. Stir in the butter just before serving. Do not add 
any more water, as it injures the fine flavor of the soup. This 
is a favorite in the South, and is a most excellent, rich soup. 
File is a preparation of sassafras made by the Indians, and can 
be had in all large Southern cities. miss annie avalker. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. — Put one pint of tomatoes over 
the fire to stew, add a bay leaf, a blade of mace, and, if con- 
venient, a sprig of parsley; let stew for fifteen minutes. Have 
ready a quart of boiling milk, to which has been added a table- 
spoon of butter and a thickening made of one tablespoon of 
flour and a little cold milk. Strain the tomatoes into a separate 
pan, add one-fourth teaspoon of soda and one teaspoon of 
sugar, now add tomatoes to the boiling milk, salt to taste, and 
do not allow the soup to cook after mixing the milk and toma- 
toes. Half a pint of chicken or veal stock added to the milk 
is a wonderful improvement. It is also more delicate if a spoon 
of whipped cream is dropped into each bowl when served. 

MRS. JOBN TROT WOOD MOORE. 

Turtle Bean Soup. — One quart of black beans, put to soak 
over night in cold water. The next morning drain and add 
three pints of fresh water, cook gently for four and one-half 
hours; add pepper, salt, and a little cloves while cooking, and 
put in a little meat either cooked or uncooked. When done 
strain thoroughly; place a half of large lemon and one hard 
boiled egg cut in thin slices, and small pieces of toasted bread 
on bottom of tureen, and upon this pour the soup. 

MRS. JAMES ROCKWELL, U. S. ARSENAL. 



12 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Lebeck Bros. $ tffrst &*** 

NASHVILLE : : : : : TENNESSEE •§• IDt\> (BOObfi 



2 Store. 



PROMPT ATTENTION -. 

TO MAIL ORDERS ^ 

ALSO MILLINERY, WRAPS, SUITS 
= WAISTS AND SKIRTS J* J 

ANYTHING BOUGHT HERE NOT SATISFACTORY WILL BE TAKEN BACK 
AND MONEY REFUNDED 

Creole Soup. — One quart can of tomatoes, three pints of 
soup stock, one large onion, three slices of carrot. Cook for 
one-half hour, then turn into a strainer and rub all through, 
return the strained mixture to the fire and add one gill of rice. 
Rub one tablespoon of curry powder, one-eighth of a teabpoon 
of cayenne pepper, one tablespoon of salt, two tablespoons but- 
ter, one tablespoon flour, and one tablespoon sugar together and 
stir into the soup. Cook all together for half an hour longer, 
then serve. mrs. c. w. bradshaw. 

Consomme. — Into a frying pan put two tablespoons of but- 
ter, let melt, and add four tablespoons of minced onion, two 
tablespoons of minced carrot, two tablespoons minced celery; 
let cook slowly for twenty minutes, then draw over to a hotter 
part of the stove, and stir until a light brown. Add this to two 
and a half quarts of hot water in which a fowl has been boiled. 
Tie in a netting bag one-half teaspoon of whole black pepper, 
one sprig each of parsley, thyme, and savory, one bay leaf, one 
leaf of sage, two whole cloves, one small piece of stick cinna- 
mon, one tiny bit of whole mace, and put it in the boiling soup, 
and boil very slowly for one hour, then add one level tablespoon 
of salt. Strain through a cloth and set away to cool. When 
cold, skim off all particles of fat, and the soup will be ready to 
be heated to the boiling point and served as a simple consomme, 
or it may have any kind of a garnish added to it. 

MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 13 

Irish Potato Soup. — Chop fine one large onion, put in a 
pan with one large tablespoon butter, and let simmer about five 
minutes. Pour into this one quart sweet milk, and thicken with 
mashed potatoes run through a sieve. 

MRS. ROBT. L. M'KINNEY. 

New Orleans Okra Gumbo. — Cut up a chicken and fry 
with two or three slices of ham or breakfast bacon, with a 
spoon of lard, a spoon of flour, an onion chopped fine, all put 
in at the same time. Fry brown ; then put into the soup pot, 
add as much boiling water as necessary for the quantity of soup 
you wish to make. Add two quarts of okra cut in small dice. 
Put on early and boil slowly until dinner time; season with salt, 
pepper, and bay leaf. Serve very hot with rice. 

MRS. E. H. HATCHER. 

A Garnish for Soup. — Two well beaten eggs, to which add 
one-quarter teaspoon of salt and five teaspoons of cold con- 
somme. Butter a cup and put the mixture in it; place the cup 
in a pan of tepid water, set in a moderate oven and cook for 
about a half hour; when thoroughly done, take from oven and 
let get cold. Turn out on a plate, cut in cubes, and place in 
soup tureen just before pouring in the soup. 

MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 



OYSTERS. 

Oyster Stew. — For two dozen oysters, one quart fresh 
sweet milk, one lump butter size of an egg, one-half pint cracker 
dust, one-half teaspoon salt and pepper. After milk has boiled, 
add oyster liquor, then pour over oysters. 

MRS. H. P. FIGURES. 

Fried Oysters. — Draw liquor from large oysters, dredge 
well in sifted meal, and place them in a skillet of hot lard or 
butter; do not crowd; season with pepper and salt, and turn as 



14 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

soon as light brown. Serve while hot. The skillet should be 
washed often while frying, as the lard burns easily, and this 
would injure the flavor of the oysters. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARD. 

Grilled Oysters. — Drain oysters in a colander, and drop 
them with a little butter into a hot pan on the range. They will 
ruffle in a few moments ; then toss them lightly about that they 
may ruffle and plump on both sides. On a platter arrange toast 
which has been browned and nicely buttered. On each slice of 
toast place a small heap of oysters which have been kept hot; 
then pour over all the liquid and melted butter seasoned with a 
pinch of pepper and salt. mrs. robert pillow. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Toast slices of bread, and butter well 
on both sides, with which line baking dish. Pour in oysters 
after seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt; sprinkle bread 
crumbs on top, and bake fifteen minutes. Flavor with two 
tablespoons of sherry or grape wine. mrs. h. p. figures. 

Oyster Cocktail. — One quart small oysters with liquor, 
one teacup of tomato catsup, one tablespoon Worcester sauce, 
one-fourth teaspoon of ground cinnamon, ginger, and allspice, 
a little pepper, a few drops of Tobasco sauce, a little salt, juice 
of one lemon, one tablespoon Durkee's challenge sauce. Oys- 
ters must be ice cold. mrs. robt. l. m'kinney. 

Fine Oyster Pie. — Make a rich puff paste, and after having 
greased the baking dish, line with paste. Then season one 
quart of oysters with pepper and salt, one half pound butter, 
and half a teacup bread crumbs. Put this in the oysters (with- 
out the liquor) and cover with paste (in strips). This pie will 
bake in one-half hour. If in baking the crust browns too fast 
put over it a paper doubled; if it looks too dry, pour over it 
some of the liquor, which must be boiled. Serve immediately, 
as paste is better when just from the oven. 

MRS. S. A. ADKISSON. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 15 

Oyster Cocktail. — Put crushed ice in champagne glasses, 
five or six oysters on top ; pour over them a dressing of tomato 
catsup, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, a few drops of 
Tobasco sauce or cayenne pepper, and salt. 

MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Fresh Oysters (delicious). — Drop into boiling water and let 
them remain until plump. Lift them out with perforated ladle 
and place on hot dish. Season with salt, butter, and pepper. 
Invalids should not eat the hard part of the oyster. 

MRS. S. T. MAXWELL. 



FISH. 

Baked Fish. — Prepare a fine red snapper for baking. Make 
a dressing as follows : One pint grated bread crumbs, three 
boiled potatoes mashed fine while hot, one teaspoon salt, one- 
half teaspoon black pepper, a pinch of cayenne pepper, one- 
half teaspoon ground cloves, with a small onion, minced very 
fine ; a small lump of butter and one-half teaspoon celery seed. 
Mix the above ingredients, and put into a hot skillet with a 
tablespoon of lard; then stir in yolks of two eggs, well beaten, 
and brown nicely. Lard the inside of fish with finely cut strips 
of ham fat or nice bacon. Add one tablespoon of Worcester 
sauce to the dressing ; then stuff fish, sew up with a large needle, 
dredge with brown flour, and add one cup of water. Bake 
until light brown; then remove from the oven, and pour over 
it one-half wineglass each of Madeira and Port. 

MRS. E. LITTLEFIELD. 

Fish. — Remove the scales, cut off the head, and take a 
sharp knife, run it along close to the backbone on each side, 
and open the fish out flat. You can, by so doing, be rid of 
so much bone ; then either halve or quarter, as the size may 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



require. Wash the pieces, salt, pepper, and roll in flour ; fry 
in the usual way. It does not require so much lard. 

MRS. BEECHER. 

Baked Fish with Oysters. — Remove skin, head, and bone 
from a three-pound haddock. Rub well with salt and lemon 
juice, lay one-half on a greased baking sheet and cover thickly 
with oysters cleaned and dipped in seasoned and buttered 
cracker crumbs, lay on the other half of the fish, brush with 
beaten egg, cover with seasoned and buttered crumbs, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve with Holandaise sauce. It 
is nice to bake fish on a fish sheet; if not, bake on cotton cloth 
which extends above the edges of the pan, as it is easier to 
remove whole to the platter. For one cup of crumbs use a salt- 
spoon of salt and one-third of a cup of melted butter, a fourth 
of a saltspoon of pepper. The crumbs should be rather coarse. 
This is very nice. mrs. r. h. ogilvie. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES. 

Cream or White Sauce. — One pint milk, two tablespoons 
butter, four tablespoons flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half 
teaspoon white pepper, one-half teaspoon celery salt. Cook 
just a little, stirring constantly. This is delightful with salads, 
baked and boiled fish. mrs. ii. p. figures. 

Sauce Tartar. — To half a pint (more or less, as the occa- 
sion demands) of mayonnaise, mix two tablespoons of capers, 
one small shallot or quarter of small onion, two gherkins or two 
ounces of cucumber pickle, and one tablespoon of parsley, all 
chopped very fine. The sauce will keep a long time, and is 
delicious for fried fish, fried oysters, boiled tongue, or whenever 
an appetizing dressing is desired. Drain the capers, and do 
not put too much vinegar in the mayonnaise, as the pickles and 
capers are both sour. mrs. w. b. harrison. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



Tartar Sauce for Fish. — One tablespoon sugar, one table 
spoon lemon juice, one teaspoon Worcester sauce. Put together 
in a bowl over hot water. One-fourth cup of browned butter 
strained into the liquid. mrs. s. t. maxwell. 

Mint Sauce for Lamb. — Four tablespoons chopped mint, 
two tablespoons sugar, one-forth pint vinegar. Place together 
in bowl and let remain an hour before using. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARD. 

Sauce for Roast Beef. — Fry half a cup of finely chopped 
onion in one tablespoon butter five minutes without browning, 
then add one tablespoon flour; stir until light brown, add half 
cup vinegar, one and one-half cups water, one bay leaf, six 
whole cloves, same of allspice and whole peppers, season with 
one teaspoon salt, half teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon sugar, 
and half a teaspoon beef extract; stir and cook ten minutes, 
then rub sauce through a sieve and pour over the meat. 

MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 

Horse'Radish Sauce. — One teacup of grated horse radish, 
one teaspoon of sugar, mixed with sufficient cream to make a 
sauce. • mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Holandaise Sauce. — Cream half a cup of butter, add the 
yolks of two eggs, and beat well; then add the juice of half a 
lemon, one saltspoon of salt, and a few grains of cayenne. 
Just before serving, add slowly one-third of a cup of boiling 
water and cook over hot water till slightly thick. This sauce, 
if well made, is particularly nice to serve with fish. 

MRS. R. IJ. OOILYIE. 

Chili Sauce. — Twenty-five ripe tomatoes, eight onions, four 
green peppers, four large cups vinegar, five tablespoons sugar, 
four spoons salt, one spoon cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. 
Cook tomatoes, onions, and pepper for a short while, then strain 
out seed. Boil all together to consistency of cream. Seal up 
while hot. mrs. j. k. orr. 



18 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Cranberry Sauce. -»-Carefully remove all soft berries, and 
wash thoroughly. To one and a half pounds fruit stew in one 
pint of water for about fifteen minutes, or until quite soft; then 
strain through wire sieve, and add three-fourths pound of sugar, 
stirred into the pulp. Serve after it cools. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 

Mayonnaise (No. i). — Yolks of three raw eggs; beat in very 
slowly, drop by drop, a half of a half-pint bottle of olive oil. 
Add one tablespoon of mixed mustard, one and one-half tea- 
spoons salt, one large tablespoon Tarragon vinegar, two table- 
spoons cider vinegar. 

Mayonnaise (No. 2). — Put yolks of two eggs into a bowl 
with two saltspoons of salt, and beat until light. Then add a 
teaspoon of dry mustard and beat again. Then olive oil, drop 
by drop, till the mixture is thickening, then a few drops of vine- 
gar and of lemon juice. Continue this process until the egg 
has absorbed two gills of oil, and finish by adding a very little 
cayenne pepper. mrs. c. a. forgey. 

Mayonnaise. — Yolks of three eggs, one teaspoon salt, one 
teaspoon sugar, one-half teaspoon mustard, pinch of cayenne 
pepper, two tablespoons vinegar, juice of one lemon, one pint 

Oil. MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Mrs. Lincoln's Mayonnaise Dressing. — Yolks of four 
eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, one-fourth 
cup cream or milk, two-thirds cup vinegar, one-half cup butter. 
Put vinegar and butter together and bring it to a boil, then add 
the other ingredients and stir briskly; when it thickens take it 

Off. MRS. NETTIE RUTTLE. 

French Dressing. — To four teaspoons of vinegar add half 
a teaspoon of salt and one-eighth of pepper; add olive oil or 
melted butter to taste. mrs. C. ay. bradsiiaw. 

Drawn Butter. — Rub together one tablespoon of flour and 
one-half cup butter, put into a sauce pan and add one cup 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 19 

water; cover and set in a large vessel of boiling water; season 
with salt and pepper; keep moving the dish, and when thor- 
oughly mixed take off. Do not let boil. Using milk instead of 
water makes it a cream sauce. MRS. W. b. harrtson. 



GAME AND POULTRY. 

Baked Turkey. — In selecting a turkey choose a plump one, 
weighing not more than nine or ten pounds. If for a large din- 
ner party, two such fowls are better than one very large one, 
their flavor being more delicate. Pick the turkey without scald- 
ing, removing each feather carefully; then pour over it boiling 
water to plump it, after which singe with a piece of lighted 
writing paper, so that no particle of down remains. Wash 
thoroughly inside and out, wipe dry, rub with salt, and let 
remain over night (longer would do no harm). When ready to 
cook, rinse thoroughly, and rub inside and out with salt and 
pepper. P.lace in pan, filling the turkey with boiling water. 
Anoint the outside with lard to prevent blistering, and baste at 
frequent intervals with its own liquor. Leave turkey in the 
oven till almost done, and then fill with the following : 

dressing. — Equal quantities of biscuit and egg-bread crumbs, 
intermixed with small bits of butter and pepper (in case the 
egg-bread is omitted, use the yolks of hard-boiled eggs mashed 
fine with plain cornbread and biscuit). Over this pour a suffi- 
cient quantity of warm water to soften the mixture. Any pre- 
ferred seasoning may be used, such as sage, etc. Add some of 
the liquor from around the turkey to the dressing, making it 
rather thin. Place a small quantity of lard or butter in a vessel 
on the stove, in which fry dressing to a delicate brown. Re- 
move turkey, and fill, making small balls of remaining dressing, 
and place around the dish. Return the fowl to the stove, 
dredge with a little flour, and let bake a rich brown. After 
removing turkey, place pan back on stove, adding a little hot 



20 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

water, and allowing it to boil before stirring in browned flour, 
until the gravy is of the consistency of cream. This should 
be served with cranberry sauce. mrs. o. c. owen. 

To Prepare a Turkey for Roasting. — Cut the head of 
the turkey off with a sharp ax or hatchet; tie the feet together 
and hang it up to bleed well. Hanging is done to prevent the 
turkey from bruising itself. Pick dry, without any water. Wash 
it thoroughly inside and out with cold water. Slit a place in 
the back of the neck to remove the craw. This is a great 
improvement to the looks of the turkey when stuffed- and on 
table. When finished, place it in a large kitchen vessel, a- 
wooden bowl or tray, or a large pan. Have ready a teakettle 
of boiling water, pour it over every part of the turkey. The 
effect will be seen immediately. This is called plumping. Hang 
it in a cold place for days if necessary. Never use salt, until 
you put it on to roast. mrs. octavine alison. 

Oyster Dressing for Turkey. — One pound of bread 
crumbled fine, and two stalks of celery chopped fine, one-half 
pound' melted butter, salt and pepper to taste. Add to this 
two quarts of oysters strained from liquor and carefully picked. 
When oysters are added to bread crumbs, add enough liquor to 
moisten. Fill turkey and baste with equal parts liquor of oys- 
ters and essence of turkey. mrs. Robert pillow. 

Oyster Dressing for Turkey. — One pound of fine bread 
crumbs, two stalks of celery chopped fine, one-half pound of 
butter melted, salt and pepper to taste. Add to this two quarts 
of oysters drained from the liquor, and while mixing with the 
other ingredients, add enough of the liquor to moisten suffi- 
ciently. Fill the turkey and baste with equal parts of the liquor 
of oysters and water. mrs. c. w. rradsiiaw. 

Smothered Chicken. — Split the chicken down the back 
and break the breast bone to make it lie flat. Put a piece of 
lard the size of an egg in a skillet; let it get very hot, then put 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 21 

in the chicken, inside down. Cover closely and let remain a 
minute or two, then pour in boiling water. Do not fill the 
vessel more than half full, and if the water boils out replenish 
till the chicken is tender; then dredge with flour and add but- 
ter ; baste thoroughly with the gravy after the butter is melted ; 
then put in a very hot oven and bake quickly, basting several 
times while baking. MRS. J. D. barrow. 

Escalloped Chicken. — Boil two large chickens and four 
sweet breads until done ; when cold chop as fine as for salad. 
Place one quart cream on fire and stir until heated. Put four 
large tablespoons butter and five even tablespoons flour in a 
double boiler; stir until melted, add cream, and stir until it 
thickens. Have chickens and sweet breads well seasoned with 
black and red pepper, and Worcestershire sauce ; add one can 
mushrooms, pour sauce over all, and well mix. 

MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

A Quick Way to Broil Chicken. — Have a nice tender 
chicken, pat it in a hot dry skillet, set inside a hot stove, let 
brown on one side, then turn and brown the other side. Have 
ready a meat dish with plenty of butter (melted), salt and pep- 
per to taste. Saturate the chicken well with the gravy, and 
serve very hot. mrs. c. t. looney. 

Broiled Chicken. — Prepare chickens by cutting open the 
back, soak half an hour in cold water, then rub with salt, and 
place them, with skin down, in a skillet of moderately hot lard 
or butter. A weight (a smoothing iron will do) should be placed, 
on them to make them flat. Turn often, replacing weight. 
Cook about one-half hour if chickens are large; when done 
pour melted butter and pepper over them, and serve while hot. 

" AUNT MARIA." 

Celeried Chicken. — Take pieces of boiled chicken, or cold 
roast, or turkey ; chop fine. Allow one tablespoon of cream to 
one of meat ; add seasoning of salt, pepper, and celery seed. 



22 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Put in a saucepan, and let come to a boil. Stir in the chicken, 
remove from fire, and beat till frothy. Put strips of toast in 
the form of square on hot plate, and fill the center with celeried 
chicken. mrs. john moore, jr., 

Fried Chicken. — After the chicken is properly prepared, 
let stand in salt awhile. If too salt, wash and drain; each piece 
should be rolled in flour and peppered. Have lard, about half 
cup, real hot; turn frequently till well done; drain off all but 
a small quantity of fat, and pour in one-half cup hot water. 
Cover closely and steam for five or ten minutes. 

MRS. BEECHER. 

Chicken Timbales. — Two cups of the meat of chicken 
ground fine, three-quarters of can mushrooms, one-half cup 
cracker crumbs softened, two eggs beaten light, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-half teaspoon celery salt, one teaspoon finely- 
chopped parsley, pinch of cayenne pepper, one-fourth teaspoon 
pepper, one-half teaspoon onion juice, juice of half a lemon, one 
and one-half cups hot milk. Mix all well together, put in molds, 
cover with oiled paper, and cook until congealed. Turn out, 
serve hot with white sauce. mrs. Robert pillow. 

To Broil Birds. — Parboil till tender, using as little water 
as possible, and have only enough in the vessel after the birds 
are tender to make gravy. Then add butter, a little vinegar, 
and pepper, put inside a hot stove, and baste frequently till 
browned. mas. j. d. barrow. 

Quail on Toast. — Dry pick them, singe, and split down 
back; soak in salt water five or ten minutes, dry with cloth; 
lard them with bacon or butter, and rub them with salt. Put 
on broiler and turn often, dipping them a time or two in melted 
butter. About twenty minutes is sufficient to cook them. Have 
as many slices of toast ready as you have birds, and serve a 
bird, breast upward, on each slice. Squabs, or any small ten- 
der bird, may be served by this recipe, mrs. s. t. maxwell. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 23 



Broiled Squirrel. — Lay them in salt water to remove the 
blood; broil whole, season with salt and pepper and butter. 
Serve with currant or grape jelly. MBS. v. H. hughes. 

Roast Duck. — Prepare duck for roasting; use the following 
stuffing : Chop fine and throw into cold water three good-sized 
onions, one large spoon of sage, two tablespoons of bread 
crumbs, butter the size of a walnut, salt, pepper, and onions 
drained. Mix well together and stuff the duck. If an ordi- 
nary sized duck, bake one hour. mrs. v. h. hughes. 

Roast Goose. — The goose is best if four months old. It 
should never be over eight months, and should be killed at 
least twenty-four hours before cooking. 

Dressing. — Three pints bread crumbs, six ounces butter, a 
little chopped onion, teaspoon, each, of pepper, salt, and sage. 
If not fat, put a slice of fat meat on breast. Place in baking 
pan with water, and baste frequently. When nearly done, baste 
with butter and a little flour. When done, take from pan, pour 
off the fat, and to the brown gravy add chopped giblets, and 
thicken with flour. Serve with currant jelly. Apple sauce and 
onion sauce should accompany roast goose. 

Roast Duck. — Ducks are dressed and stuffed in the same 
manner as above. Serve with currant jelly, apple sauce, and 
green peas. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Force-Meat. — A good force-meat for game or poultry is 
made by soaking a five-cent loaf of bread in cold water; press 
the water out and put the bread in a basin ; add a quarter of a 
pound of sausage meat or cold minced veal or chicken, one 
beaten egg, a small onion minced and fried in butter, salt, pep- 
per, and nutmeg ; a tablespoon of butter, melted. 

MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 

Apple Stuffing. — Take a pint of tart apple sauce and mix 
with it a small cup of bread crumbs, a little powdered sage, a 
small onion sliced fine, and season with cayenne pepper. This 
is nice for roast goose, duck, and game. mrs. v. h. hughes. 



24 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



EGGS. 

Eggs are one of the most nutritious articles of food. One 
should be careful to use only such as are fresh. To test eggs, 
hold to the light; if transparent, or the yolk can be traced, it is 
good. Another way to test is to place in water; if they sink 
they are fresh, if they rise or turn on point they are stale. 

When the whites of eggs only are needed, the yolks may be 
kept several days by dropping into cup of cold water. 

Put eggs into boiling water if you wish the whites set ; boil 
three minutes, the yolks will set in five minutes ; for hard-boiled, 
ten minutes. mrs. w. b. Harrison. 

Steamed Eggs. — Butter patty pans or egg cups, break an 
egg in each one and place them in steamer; let them steam 
until the whites are well cooked. mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Baked Eggs. — Break as many eggs as you wish for your 
meal on a platter; sprinkle over with salt and pepper, cover 
with cream, set in oven and bake from five to eight minutes. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 

Eggs in Cream Sauce. — Boil six eggs slowly for twenty 
minutes. Remove the shells, cut eggs in slices and place on 
dish ready for use. Melt in chafing dish one tablespoon of 
butter, lift from flame and rub smooth into it one tablespoon of 
flour; gradually add one small cup of stock and one of milk, 
dash of salt and pepper. Stir over the fire until the sauce 
thickens, add the eggs, and when heated through serve. (Diced 
potatoes may be used this way.) 

MRS. JOHN TROTWOOD MOORE. 

Eggs with Cheese. — Two hard-boiled eggs, one-half cup 
grated cheese, one teaspoon of butter, one-half cup of milk, 
one teaspoon of flour, salt and pepper. Make white sauce of 
butter, flour, milk, salt and pepper, then add to sauce the 
grated cheese and eggs chopped fine. Serve on buttered toast. 

MRS. EUGENE W. LONG. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 25 



GOOD COOKING 

Requires good vessels and kitchen utensils. 
We have everything necessary for the 
kitchen, pantry and laundry. All of the 
very best grade at the lowest prices 



OUR SPECIALTIES 



Venetian Enameled Ware 
Enterprise Food Choppers 
Demuth's Dough Kneaders 
Silver Nickel Ware 



Washington Carving and 

Kitchen Knives 
Hennis Potato Mashers 



VISITORS ALWAYS WELCOME. CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED. 

GRAY & DUDLEY HARDWARE COMPANY 

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE 



Stuffed Eggs. — Boil eggs twenty minutes. Remove the 
shells and cut carefully lengthwise ; remove yolks and put whites 
of each egg together that they may not become mixed. Make a 
force-meat of one cup of any kind of cold meat chopped fine. 
If chicken be used, season with celery or parsley; if ham, with 
mustard and cayenne ; if veal, with lemon juice or horseradish 
catsup. Add salt, pepper, and melted butter. Fill in the cavi- 
ties level. Put halves together. 

Very nice egg croquettes can be made by rolling these in 
beaten egg and cracker crumbs. Put in wire egg basket and 
dip in boiling lard. When slightly browned, serve with celery 
or tomato sauce. • mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Beat six eggs until they are well mixed; 
add one tablespoon of cold water for each egg, and a quarter 
teaspoon of salt; a small bit of butter. Put a piece of butter 
in the chafing dish ; when hot, pour in the eggs, and stir con- 

3 



26 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

stantly until cooked. If your dish is thin, use the hot-water 
pan. Have ready toasted crackers, which you have prepared 
by placing the asbestos mat over the flame, and crackers placed 
on the mat. Serve eggs on crackers. 

MRS. JOHN TROTWOOD MOORE. 

Shirred Eggs. — Warm and butter well the muffin rings. 
Drop an egg into each cell, being careful not to break the yolk. 
Sprinkle a little salt and pepper on each, and cook in a moder- 
ately hot oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

MRS. V. H. HUGHES. 

Shirred Eggs. — Set in the stove, till quite hot, a common 
dish large enough to hold the number of eggs to be cooked. 
Melt in dish enough butter to cover the bottom. Break eggs 
carefully, one at a time, in a saucer and slip into hot dish. 
Sprinkle over them a small quantity of pepper and salt, and add 
one tablespoon of cream for every two eggs. Allow them to 
cook four or five minutes. A very dainty dish. 

MRS. W. C. HARRISON. 

Rumbled Eggs. — One cup milk, one tablespoon butter, a 
pinch of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Put in pan. When it 
boils add eight eggs, all at once, and stir till done, being careful 
not to let them get too stiff. mrs. j. w. shelton. 



J. W. FRY, J. P. BROWNLOW, J. F. BROWNLOW, 

PRESIDENT. VICE-PRESIDENT. CASHIER. 

FARMERS AND MERCHANTS' BANK 

OF COLUMBIA, TENN. 



CAPITAL $50,000.00 

SURPLUS 5,000.00 

SOLICITS SAVINGS DEPOSITS. STRICTLY A BANKING BUSINESS. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 27 



OMELETS. 

Omelet. — Beat the yolks and whites of six eggs separately 
and thoroughly. To the yolks add one-half teaspoon of salt 
and three tablespoons of sweet milk; then stir all lightly into 
the whites; have baking pan very hot, and drop into it a spoon- 
ful of butter; pour in the egg, shake lightly on the hottest part 
of the stove till the egg begins to thicken, then place in the 
oven (not too hot) until set. Run a silver knife between the 
sides of the omelet and pan, fold and serve on a hot dish. 

MRS. JOHN TROTWOOD MOORE. 

Delicate Egg Omelet. — Three eggs, one teaspoon of but- 
ter, pepper and salt to taste, one pint sweet milk. Bake in a 
pan several inches deep, in a hot oven. Serve from the pan 
while hot. mrs. r. h. ogilvie. 

Oyster Omelet. — Beat six eggs very light and mix them 
with half a cup of cream, with salt and pepper to taste. Put 
a tablespoon of butter in a hot frying-pan, and when it is melted 
pour in mixture. Before the eggs are firm put in eighteen small 
oysters, and when omelet is a delicate brown, fold and serve at 
once. The pan should be set over a moderate fire, so that 
cooking of oysters will not be too rapid. 

MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Egg Omelet. — Whites and yolks of four eggs, four table- 
spoons of hot water beaten in yolks, salt and pepper, a little 
butter. Pour yellows over well-beaten whites and fold the 
whites in. Put in buttered pans and bake light brown. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARD. 

Cheese Souffle. — Three tablespoons flour (rounded), three 
tablespoons butter, three eggs, one cup milk, one cup grated 
cheese, salt and pepper. Make a thick white sauce by cream- 
ing the butter and flour in a saucepan, then adding the milk 
gradually and stirring constantly until boiling. Cook three 



28 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

minutes, then stir in the cheese and well-beaten yolks. Fold 
in the stiffly-beaten whites, and bake in a greased pan about 
twenty-five minutes. Serve quickly, as it soon falls; in other 
words, your meal may wait for the souffle, but the souffle for 
the meal, never. mrs. r. p. dodson. 



CROQUETTES. 

Chicken Croquettes. — Half pound of chicken chopped 
very fine ; season with one-half teaspoon of salt, one-half tea- 
spoon of celery salt, one-fourth saltspoon of cayenne pepper, 
one saltspoon of white pepper, a few drops of onion juice, one 
teaspoon of chopped parsley, and one teaspoon of lemon juice. 
Make one pint of cream sauce, mix with the chicken, and 
spread on a dish to cool. Mold and roll in fine bread crumbs ; 
then dip in beaten egg, and in crumbs again. Fry one minute 
in smoking-hot lard. 

Cream Sauce for Above. — One pint hot milk, two even table- 
spoons of butter, four even tablespoons of flour, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-half saltspoon of white pepper, one-half tea- 
spoon celery salt, and a little cayenne pepper. 

MRS. A. S. JAMES. 

Croquettes. — Cook chicken tender, and chop fine. Put 
one teaspoon cayenne pepper, two teaspoons celery seed, one 
teaspoon chopped onions, melted butter the size of an egg, salt 
to taste. Let one pint of sweet milk come to a boil, roll crack- 
ers'very fine, stir in the boiling milk till like mush, then add two 
beaten eggs, and put chicken into the mixture. Make into cro- 
quettes, roll again in cracker dust, and fry in hot lard. 

MRS. E. E. ERWIN. 

Croquettes. — Two and a half pints grated meat of any kind, 
one pint cracker crumbs or biscuits, one cup sweet milk, two 
eggs beaten separately, lump of butter size of an egg, one small 
onion chopped fine, celery seed or white mustard seed. Season 



SALE UNPRECEDENTED 



ONE MILLION SOLD 



WEHAVEIT !! 



WHAT? 



UWANTIT !! 



The Ideal Food Cutter 



-5 H H 

rt « O 

E <! 2 
o- 

cow 

° 2 o 

§h I 

J o H 

-' & 

.2 O 



pq 

>- 




2 3 ^ 

O p o 

5-3 * 



3 -i 



§ 3. 

n 

w 

* o 



TINNED TO PREVENT RUST. CUTTING PARTS TEMPERED STEEIv. 

Iyight, Simple, Durable, Indispensible. 
The I D E A L is without doubt perfection in a Meat and Vegetable Cutter. 
It cuts Meat fine or coarse. It cuts Vegetables. 

It grates Cheese. It grinds Coffee or Crackers 

In fact, it cuts, grates or grinds everything except wood ; 

and does everything in the kitchen except cook. 
B^You should r^ot t>e without it.^a 
Ask for the IDEAI,. Take no other. Made in two sizes. 

No. 25, Cuts 2 lbs. per minute, - - each, $1.50 
No. 30, Cuts 3 lbs. per minute, - - - each, $2.00 



Manufactured t>y 



THE PECK, STOW & WILCOX CO. 



New York, 



30 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

to taste. Mix yellows of eggs with milk and butter ; then add 
other ingredients. Make croquettes, roll them in cracker dust, 
then in beaten yolks; roll again in crackers, then in yolks; drop 
into a pot of hot lard, and cook until light brown. 

MRS. D. W. LENEAVE. 

Salmon Croquettes. — From one can of salmon remove all 
bones. Season with salt and pepper, then chop fine with celery 
or lettuce; add one-half teaspoon of celery seed and two raw 
eggs. Mold into any form desired, roll in cracker dust, and 
fry in butter or lard until a light brown. 

MISS HENRIETTA LAZARUS. 

Salmon Croquettes. — One can salmon, one cup creamed 
potatoes, yolks of two eggs, piece of butter size of an egg, salt 
and pepper to taste. Mix together, roll in cracker crumbs, and 
fry or bake. mrs. h. a. m'lemore. 

Meat Turnovers. — Take any kind of cold meat, grind in 
a meat mill, season with pepper, salt, and a little chopped pars- 
ley, moisten with gravy or melted butter. Make a good pastry 
and cut in round pieces the size of a saucer; do not roll too 
thin. Put a large spoon of the meat on half and turn the other 
half over. Crimp the edge and bake. mrs. r. c. gant. 

Sweetbread, or Brain Croquettes. — Cook some rice, 
mash very fine ; beat two eggs thoroughly, mix with rice. Have 
either sweetbreads or brains ready cooked, washed well, and 
seasoned with cream, salt, pepper, and butter. Add to rice, 
roll in cracker crumbs and egg. Fry in hot lard. 

MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Ham Croquettes. — Run your cold boiled ham through the 
meat chopper. To every cup of ground meat, put one cup of 
rolled bread crumbs and one hard-boiled egg (put the egg through 
the chopper, too), add salt if needed, pepper, and nutmeg to 
taste. When ready to use, wet up with sweet cream, make out 
and fry like croquettes. In cold weather a large quantity can 
be mixed and packed. Never add cream until ready to fry. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 31 

Oyster Croquettes. — Half pint of raw oysters, half pint 
of cooked veal, one heaping tablespoon of butter, three table- 
spoons cracker crumbs, yolks of two eggs, one tablespoon onion 
juice. Chop the oysters and veal very fine, soak the cracker 
crumbs in the oyster liquor, and then mix the ingredients, and 
shape. Dip in egg and roll in cracker crumbs, and fry as usual. 

MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 

Potato Croquettes. — One pint of hot mashed potatoes, 
one tablespoon butter, one-half teaspoon salt and pepper, one- 
half teaspoon of celery salt, a few drops of onion juice, yolk of 
one egg. Beat well all together, let cool, then make into shape, 
roll in egg and crumbs and fry. mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Chicken Croquettes. — One pound of chicken or turkey 
chopped fine, yolks of five hard-boiled eggs rubbed fine and 
mixed with meat, one teaspoon white onion, one dessertspoon 
parsley, one small saltspoon ground mace, one-half nutmeg 
grated, (onion and parsley chopped very fine). Take three- 
quarters pound of stale bread crumbs, one-half pound melted 
butter, hot water (or that in which the chicken was boiled is 
best), mixed together, and stir into a thick smooth mush over 
the fire. Three tablespoons of cream is quite an addition, with 
salt and pepper to taste; add a little cayenne. Mix all together 
into pear-shaped croquettes, putting a whole clove in the top of 
each for a stem, and fry in baskets. A little thyme or sweet 
marjoram may be added. Very nice. 

MRS. ALICE HUGHES SMITH. 

Fish Croquettes. — One cup of fish, two cups of potatoes, 
one egg, one tablespoon of butter, salt and pepper to taste; 
roll into balls, dip in egg, then roll in cracker crumbs and fry. 

MRS. V. H. HUGHES. 



32 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

CHAFING DISH. 

Oysters Maitre d'Hotel. — Rinse and thoroughly drain 
two dozen oysters. Put, with one tablespoon of butter, in the 
chafing dish ; stir carefully, and when the edges begin to ruffle, 
add the juice of one-half lemon, one tablespoon of chopped 
parsley. Season with salt and paprika, and serve on squares of 

toast. MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 

Welsh Rarebit. — One and one-half pounds fresh cheese, 
one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon dry mustard, one teaspoon 
Worcester sauce, cayenne pepper and salt, one-half pint of 
beer. Put butter in chafing dish ; when nearly melted, add 
cheese cut in small dice, mustard, and a little cayenne pepper. 
Stir all the time; add a small amount of beer to prevent burn- 
ing. Keep adding beer. Serve hot on toast or crackers, as 
preferred. mrs. eugene \v. long. 

Fricassee of Oysters. — Drain four or five dozen oysters. 
Put them in a bowl, ready for use ; also have ready a cup con- 
taining yolks of two eggs, a dish with one tablespoon of butter 
and one of flour, a cup with one-half pint milk, salt and pep- 
per. Light the lamp of chafing dish, drop in the butter, and, 
when melted, stir in the flour (lift the dish away from the fire 
until the mixture is rubbed smooth), now add the milk gradu- 
ally, and stir over fire until the sauce is thick; add the oysters, 
bring to boil, add dash of salt, pepper, and yolks. Stir a minute 
and serve. mrs. john trotwood moore. 

Broiled Oysters. — Take as many large oysters as are wished, 
wash and dry them thoroughly. Slice extremely thin some good 
breakfast bacon and wrap each oyster, fastening with a wooden 
toothpick. Have the blazer or wire broiler of chafing dish ready, 
and broil until bacon is crisp. Serve very hot. 

MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 

Ham Rarebit. — Two pounds of ground ham. Stir the yolks 
of four hard-boiled eggs fine, add slowly four ounces butter, stir- 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



ring constantly, then add one raw yolk, two tablespoons vine- 
gar, two teaspoons English mustard, one teaspoon salt, one-half 
teaspoon pepper, two tablespoons capers, one tablespoon very 
finely-chopped onion, and the whites of four eggs chopped fine, 
add ham, and mix all together well. Cut into thin slices a loaf 
of baker's bread, trim off all crust, fry in butter to fine golden 
color (care should be taken not to get them too hard), and spread 
each slice with the ham preparation. Place a saucepan with 
four ounces of grated cheese and two tablespoons of ale over 
the fire, add pinch of cayenne pepper, stir until creamy, pour 
over ham and bread and serve at once. mrs. j. w. shelton. 



SANDWICHES. 

Cheese Sandwiches. — Mix equal parts of dry rich cheese, 
grated, with chopped English walnut meat (nicer blanched), 
season with a little salt and cayenne. Mix with mayonnaise 
dressing. ' Spread between thin slices of bread slightly buttered, 
and cut in fancy shapes. mrs. Robert church. 

Club House Sandwiches. — Procure a can each of Libby's 
sliced bacon and veal loaf. Turn the loaf out on the board 
and cut in thin slices ; fry the bacon crisp, and prepare some 
thin slices of buttered toast (fry bread in butter to prevent its 
being hard). Lay two slices of bacon on one piece of toast, 
over this, two slices veal loaf, a crisp lettuce leaf between the 
veal, then two slices bacon, another piece of toast. Trim neatly 
and lay between two plates, with a weight on. Let lie five min- 
utes and serve. If dressing is desired, mix an equal amount 
of butter and French mustard together and spread on bread, 
then put in your meats and lettuce leaf. mrs. j. w. shelton. 

Sardine Sandwiches. — One box of sardines, one lemon, 
two tablespoons butter, salt, and a pinch of red pepper; free 
the sardines from skin and bones, chop into a fine paste, add 



34 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

the lemon juice and seasoning, and, lastly, the butter, which 
has been melted ; spread between wafers or thin slices of bread 
and butter. mrs. v. h. hughes. 



CHEESE STRAWS. 

Cheese Straws. — One teacup of flour, one teacup grated 
cheese, one-half teacup lard, one saltspoon of salt, and as 
much cayenne pepper as can be held on the point of a table 
knife. Mix flour, salt, and cayenne pepper, and sift. Put in a 
portion of the lard, pour in one-half cup of cold water, and use 
a knife to work ingredients. As soon as dough is of the con- 
sistency of biscuit dough, spread on the rest of the lard and 
roll. Then sprinkle half the cheese on and roll in well. Re- 
peat till cheese is all used. Then divide the dough in small 
pieces, and roll as thin as possible. Cut in pieces about six 
inches long and an eighth of an inch wide, and bake in moder- 
ate Oven. MRS. J. P. HERNDON. 

Cheese Straws. — Mix together four ounces of flour, two 
ounces of butter, two ounces grated dried cheese, a dash of red 
pepper, and one-half teaspoon of salt. Beat the yolk of one 
egg with two tablespoons of ice water; add this to the flour and 
cheese. Work all to a smooth paste, roll thin, cut in narrow 
strips, and bake. mrs. ben cheairs. 



MEATS. 

Meats. — Boiled meats should be put in boiling water to set 
the juices. Cold water should only be used for corned meats 
and soup. 

Ham should be boiled twenty minutes to a pound; mutton 
about fifteen ; corned beef twenty minutes. Should the meat 
be tough, add a little vinegar to the water. 



THE NATIONAL STEEL RANGE 

( MADE AND GUARANTEED BY P. & B. MFG. CO.) 

Is expressly adapted to Southern fuel, hence bakes, broils, and boils 
to a Queen's taste, with 25 per cent, less fuel than any other make 



ALL SIZES AND KINDS THE EXPERT HOUSEWIFE NEEDS 




Queensware 

Grates 

Toys 

Roofing 

Refrigerators 



A DAINTY PAMPHLET, STYLED 

"NATIONAL RECIPES" 

By the famous Teacher of Cooking, 

Mrs. Helen Armstong, 

of Chicago, sent free to anv lady's address. 



PHILLIPS & BUTTORFF MFG. CO 



NASHVILLE, TENN, 



36 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Dried or strongly-salted meats should be soaked over night 
in cold water. 

If fowls are old, to prevent them being tough when cooked 
do not salt until ready to put in the pot. Always put on in cold 
water, and just before it comes to a boil drop in nine grains of 
corn. Same rule will apply to beef or mutton. 

" AUNT MARTHA." 

Roast Beef or Mutton. — Boil until very tender, seasoning 
with salt; put in a skillet with lard the size of an egg, and 
brown on top of stove; turn the roast until every side is nicely 
browned. Sprinkle a little flour in gravy and brown ; add a 
pinch of salt and pepper, then skim the liquor in which meat 
was boiled, and pour into the gravy. Baste the roast with gravy 
until it looks nice and juicy. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

To Broil, Bake, or Roast Beef. — Slice cold roast beef 
across the grain ; put a tablespoon of lard in a vessel, and when 
it gets very hot, put in the beef, and turn once. Then add a 
little hot water, butter, pepper, and vinegar (only a small quan- 
tity of the latter). These last ingredients will make gravy. Let 
this get thoroughly hot and serve. mrs. j. d. barrow. 

Stuffed Beef, or Chine Bone. — Boil the large end of a 
backbone (the chine) till very tender. Then make incisions in 
the flesh and fill with the following mixture : Chop fine a liberal 
supply of onions, add double the quantity of bread crumbs, 
season with butter and pepper ; moisten this mixture with the 
broth the meat was boiled in. If there is any dressing left it 
can be spread on the top of the meat before it is put in the stove 
to bake, or be made into balls and served with the meat. 

MRS. J. D. BARROW. 

Spiced Beef. — Six pounds of lean beef, free from fat and 
gristle, chopped fine, one pint grated bread crumbs, six beaten 
eggs, one teaspoon allspice, pepper, red and black, to taste, a 
little nutmeg, butter the size of a large egg. Mix into a loaf, 
put into a well-greased pan, sprinkle bread crumbs on top and 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 37 

set the pan in another containing hot water, and cover closely. 
Bake three hours and serve cold, sliced. 

MISS LUCILLE B. DUNNINGTON. 

Corn Beef. — Fifty pounds fresh beef cut in small pieces, 
four pounds coarse salt, two and a half ounces saltpetre, three- 
fourths pound baking soda, one-eighth pound pepper, one and 
a half pounds sugar, one-eighth pound cloves; add fifteen 
quarts of cistern water, and boil. When thoroughly cold strain 
and pour over the beef. Cook slowly until tender. This must 
not be kept in a tub or jar which has held pork or lard. The 
spices may be omitted. mrs. dexter. 

Beef Tongue. — Soak tongue all night in cold water, boil 
slowly five hours, and skin when cold. For sandwiches use 
white sauce. This makes a delightful lunch. 

MRS. H. P. FIGURES. 

Scalloped Beef. — One pint cooked beef chopped fine, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, stir in three eggs beatea lightly, two 
tablespoons of stock (or milk), one tablespoon melted butter. 
Bake in cups or muffin rings for twenty minutes. 

MRS. F. H. SMITH. 

To Fry Beefsteak. — Hack the steak well, then sprinkle 
with enough salt to season to taste, and spread with flour. Have 
ready a skillet with hot lard enough to half cover the steak, and 
place steak in with floured side down ; sprinkle upper side with 
flour and pepper. One turning is sufficient; when brown, add 
water for gravy, and as this comes to a boil, push back on stove 
and cover till ready to serve. A teaspoon of kitchen bouquet 
adds to flavor. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

How to Boil a Ham. — Put on water to cover the ham, and 
when it comes to a boil, put in the ham and cover the vessel ; 
let boil two to three hours, according to the size of ham. When 
done remove from the water, and when thoroughly cold remove 
the skin. mrs. john av. Cecil. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



Roasted Ham. — Boil the ham till the skin will peel off, and 
then stick in cloves over the surface. Cover with bread crumbs 
or cracker dust, sprinkle with sugar, and place in a dripping 
pan. Raise it a little from the pan by placing sticks under it. 
Bake three or four hours. mrs. j. w. shelton. 

Baked Ham. — Put a ten-pound ham in the boiler, half cover 
with cold water and one pint molasses. Boil until all the water 
is absorbed by the ham, and then remove the skin. Mix one 
tablespoon black pepper in one and a half teacups sugar, and 
rub into the ham until sugar is all absorbed. Bake until light 
brown all over. mrs. d. w. leneave. 

Stuffed Ham. — Boil a ham of medium size for three hours, 
or until quite done. When cool, skin and trim well. Make a 
dressing of crackers or bread crumbs, a little grated horse- 
radish, parsley, and thyme; season with salt and pepper to 
taste. Pierce the ham with carving knife or a sharp stick, fill 
the holes with dressing, glaze ham with beaten yolk of an egg, 
sprinkle a layer of bread crumbs, and brown. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARD. 

Dressing for Boiled Ham. — One pint grated bread crumbs, 
one wineglass each of sherry and whisky, one tablespoon sugar, 
one saltspoon each salt and pepper, one teaspoon ground mus- 
tard, one tablespoon sweet basil, one tablespoon thyme and 
parsley. Soften the mixture with drippings and small pieces of 
trimmings from the ham. Open holes in ham with carving steel 
and stuff with dressing, and glaze the holes with yellow of an 
egg. Bake light brown. mrs. h. p. figures. 

Scrapple. — Boil a pig's head two hours in four quarts of 
water, with a little sage, salt, and pepper; cut the flesh from 
the bones, mince it fine, and return it to the liquor; add enough 
sifted cornmeal to thicken ; simmer two hours, when it should 
be the consistency of soft mush, not too thick to pour. Put it 
in pans ; when cold and stiff, it is sliced and fried for breakfast. 

MRS. JAMES ROCKWELL. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 39 

To Boil Ham. — Soak well, ten or twelve hours. Put in 
sack, then put in vessel filled with cold water; let it boil several 
hours, until quite done. When done let it remain in the water 
until cold. All meats and poultry are better by remaining in 
their own juice until cold. mrs. r. h. ogilvie. 

To Broil Ham. — Slice ham thin, put in pan, and barely 
cover with water. Let it come to a boil and boil a few minutes. 
Drain the water off, let it brown or broil on each side, take up 
and butter and pepper. Use the water that has been poured 
off for making gravy. mrs. r. h. ogilvie. 

Timbales of Liver. — For one pint of cooked liver minced, 
use one cup of dry bread crumbs softened in one cup of milk. 
Mix all together, add one tablespoon of soft butter; season 
with salt and pepper, cut parsley, and a little onion juice. Bind 
with two beaten eggs. Fill well-buttered timbale molds and 
cook in a moderate oven in a pan of warm water for twenty- 
five minutes. Turn out in warm dish and surround with brown 
mushroom sauce. mrs. m'alpine. 

Sweet Bread. — Wash very carefully and remove all bits of 
skin or fatty matter. Cover with cold water ; salt, and boil for 
about fifteen minutes. Then remove from the boiling water 
and put into cold water. Roll in cracker dust and beaten egg 
and fry in hot lard. mrs. a. maxvill. 

Boiled Fresh Tongue. — Trim all surplus flesh off. Place 
the tongue in a kettle with about three quarts of water, and add 
to that one large teacup of salt, two good-sized sliced onions, a 
pinch of different kinds of spices, two teacups of good strong 
vinegar, one teaspoon of celery seed, a pinch of sage, and one 
large pod of red pepper. When done remove from fire and 
skim while hot. Ready for the table when cold. 

MRS. J. P. HERNDON. 

Beef Heart. — Wash carefully and stuff it nicely with a 
dressing of bread crumbs. Roast for an hour and a half, and 
serve with the gravy, thickened with some of the dressing. 

MRS. V. H. HUGHES. 



40 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Roast Venison. — Wash and dry, put in deep baking pan, 
and cover closely. A piece of white paper, buttered, may be 
laid on the fat, or a paste one-half inch thick may be used. 
Put boiling water (a good deal) in pan, and cook slowly three 
to four hours, according to size. About twenty minutes before 
done, remove paste or paper and cover; dredge with flour and 
baste well with butter, a-nd brown. Serve with gravy made 
from its own drippings, having first removed the fat. Always 
serve with currant jelly. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Broiled Venison Steak. — Broil quickly over a clear fire, 
and when sufficiently done pour over it two tablespoons of cur- 
rant jelly, melted with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. 
Season with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. 

MRS. V. H. HUGHES. 

Stewed Brains. — After cleaning set of brains, put in a stew 
pan with enough water to keep from burning; season with one 
tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste ; when about done, 
stir in a tablespoon of milk with a teaspoon of flour. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 

Texas Hot Tomales. — To one pint of finely-ground boiled 
beef add four tablespoons cayenne pepper; mix thoroughly. 
Put a tablespoon of this mixture into a shuck thickly sprinkled 
with corn meal and tie securely. When a number have been 
filled, drop them into the broth in which the beef was boiled, 
and add half dozen pepper corns. Boil until the meal is cooked. 
Serve in their cases as soon as taken from the fire. 

MISS ETHEL VOSS. 

Scalloped Meats. — Any cold meats, chicken, lamb, beef, 
or fish, minced or ground fine. Season with butter, pepper 
and salt to taste. Place in a deep pan, using a layer of the 
meat and a layer of cracker, biscuit or light-bread crumbs. 
Beat two eggs and add to a pint of sweet milk or water (milk is 
preferable). Pour this over your meat and crumbs, having a 
thick layer of crumbs on top. Bake in a hot oven. 

MRS. R. H. OGILVIE. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 41 

Mounded Beef {for ted). — Two cups of cold beef (boiled 
or roasted), chopped very fine, one cup of cold mashed pota- 
toes, one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoon minced 
onion, salt and pepper to taste, two raw eggs, and a teaspoon 
of poultry dressing. Mix well, mould into brick shape in a 
greased baking pan, sift flour over it, cover, and bake half an 
hour. Remove cover and rub over with butter and brown. 
Transfer carefully to hot platter, pour over it sauce made of one 
cup stewed tomatoes heated with equal quantity of soup stock. 

MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 



COLD RELISHES. 

Cold relishes should be placed on the table before serving 
the meal, as they add much to decorative effect. 

Tomato Jelly. — Take one-half box of gelatine, soak in cold 
water; one quart can tomatoes, rub through colander, flavor 
with salt, cayenne pepper, pinch of celery salt, a bay leaf, then 
add to gelatine. Put on fire and let come to boiling point ; add 
one large tablespoon of Worcester sauce. Take off the fire, 
and when the jelly is cold and beginning to form, pour into 
moulds that have been lined with thin slices of cucumber. Turn 
out and serve with a garnish of lettuce leaves. 

MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Cottage Cheese (breakfast dish). — Remove the cream from 
a good-sized pan of clabber ; pour the clabber into a thin bag, 
and hang over night to drip. The cheese will be quite solid, 
but break it up well with a fork. Season with salt, a little black 
pepper, and about two tablespoons of sweet cream. 

MRS. BEECHER. 

Creamed Sweetbreads. — Put them in cold water; remove 
the pipes and membranes. Cook them in boiling salted water 
with one tablespoon of lemon juice, twenty minutes, and plunge 

4 



42 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

into cold water to harden. Cut into small pieces, and serve in 
a white sauce, on toast or in puff-paste shells. 

MRS. W. B. DOBBINS. 

Apple Salad. — Three teacups of apple pared and cut in 
small blocks, one teacup of chopped celery, and one of English 
walnuts broken in bits. Make dressing of half pint of milk, 
yolks of three eggs, butter size of walnut, one teaspoon salt, 
two teaspoons sugar, two even tablespoons of corn starch, three 
tablespoons vinegar, one saltspoon black pepper; set on stove 
and stir till thick. When cool, mix lightly with fork, and serve 
on crisp lettuce leaves. mrs. j. w. shelton. 

Fruits in Season. — One quart of alcohol, 120 grains sali- 
cylic acid; put into a two-gallon stone jar. Beginning with 
strawberries, put in two pounds of fruit and two pounds of sugar; 
cherries, peaches, red raspberries, pears, and pineapples, after- 
wards, as they come in, are added to the alcohol, two pounds 
of each and two of sugar. Stir from the bottom each time it is 
added to. When used, you can add nuts and grapes, or any 
fresh fruits. To be served with a meat course. 

MRS. CHARLES S. JACKSON. 

Fresh Fruits {grape fruit for breakfast). — To prepare grape 
fruit for the table, remove the skin, separate the sections of the 
fruit like an orange, and remove the pulp, in rather small pieces, 
out of its bitter white skin. Put the pulp into a deep dish, with 
sugar sufficient to suit the taste, and allow to stand in a cool 
place for a while. mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Glace Nuts. — Two cups granulated sugar, one-fourth pound 
English walnuts or pecans. Place the halves of the nuts an 
inch apart on a well-buttered paper. Melt the sugar in a heavy 
vessel over a hot fire ; when thoroughly melted, drop one des- 
sertspoon on each nut. mrs. john witherspoon frierson. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 43 



HOT RELISHES. 

Relish. — Cook rice so that the grains will stand apart, and 
while hot, put a generous tablespoon on individual plates ; open 
can of large yellow California peaches; lay a half peach in 
center of each plate, and pour over it a sauce made as follows : 
Rub together thoroughly one tablespoon butter with one teacup 
of powdered sugar; add yolks of four eggs beaten very light, 
and the juice of one lemon; beat briskly several minutes and 
then add glass of wine, stirring hard all the time. Set bowl 
containing this in saucepan of boiling water and stir until it 
becomes heated, being careful that it does not boil. 

MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 

Deviled Tomatoes (an accompaniment to roast chicken). Take 
three large firm tomatoes, not over ripe. Cut them in slices 
half an inch thick and lay on a sieve. Make a dressing of one 
tablespoon of butter and one of vinegar rubbed smooth with 
the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, add a very little sugar, salt, 
mustard, and cayenne pepper; beat smooth and heat to a boil. 
Take from fire and pour upon a well-beaten egg, whipping to a 
smooth cream. Put this over hot water while the tomatoes are 
being broiled over a clear fire. Put tomatoes on hot dish and 
pour dressing over them. mrs. j. w. shelton. 

Mushroom Sauce. — Melt two ounces butter in a saucepan, 
add one tablespoon flour; cook and stir three minutes, add one 
pint boiling water and one teaspoon beef extract, stir well, and 
add one can of mushrooms, season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Cook fifteen minutes; add last, one teaspoon lemon juice and 
serve. mrs. j. w. shelton. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



SALADS. 

Irish Potato Salad. — For eight persons, take four large 
potatoes and two large onions. Boil potatoes till done, then 
beat until very light. Season them with black pepper and a 
saltspoon of salt. Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and 
the yolk of one raw one. Stir until perfectly smooth, a small 
teaspoon of mustard, an after-dinner coffee cup of olive oil, or 
one large tablespoon of butter (I use butter). Mix the mustard 
with the eggs, adding the oil or butter very slowly, half a coffee 
cup of vinegar, a teaspoon of salt. Chop the hard-boiled whites 
fine and add also. Pour over the potatoes and mix well. 
Garnish with tomatoes or parsley. 

MRS. JOHN FRANKLIN STEPHENSON. 

Lettuce and Radish Salad. — Slice radishes thin and lay 
in cold water; wash lettuce and place on ice. Make a garnish 
of the small round radishes, slashing them from root to stem 
and pulling the red peel up. Serve with a dressing and have 
very cold. mrs. c. w. bradshaw. 

Cheese Salad. — Use any dry rich cheese, about two heap- 
ing tablespoons, grated, to a head of lettuce of medium size; 
after the lettuce has remained in ice water awhile, break the 
leaves apart and lay them in a salad dish. Scatter grated cheese 
over the leaves. Pour over it salad dressing. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 

Rice Salad. — Five cups of boiled rice, one cup red beets 
boiled and chopped, one cup celery cut rather small; make the 
dressing as for ordinary salad. mrs. j. w. shelton. 

Chicken Salad. — One chicken weighing about two and 
one-half pounds, one cup chopped celery, four eggs (hard 
boiled), one tablespoon olive oil or melted butter, one table- 
spoon prepared mustard, one tablespoon salt, one-half table- 
spoon pepper, one-half cup of vinegar. Boil chicken tender, 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



46 




Shoe Valuer — ) 

Honest Wear and Honest Money 
is what every shoe buyer wants and 
expects. That's what we always give 
r ou. Every shoe in our stock is 
selected with a 
view to obtain the 
very best service a 
shoe can give for 
the price paid. 
Pleasing styles, pleasing wear, at pleasing prices, is 
what pleases our trade. 

WATKINS, HARLAN & EVANS 



pick in small pieces, and mix with the celery. Chop the eggs, 
add to the other ingredients and pour over. 

MRS. BEN CHEAIRS. 

Chicken Salad. — For two chickens, six eggs beaten light, 
one-half pound butter, one teaspoon black pepper, one teaspoon 
mustard, salt to taste, juice of two lemons, one teacup of the oil 
from chickens, one-half teacup of vinegar. Put all this on stove 
and stir constantly till it thickens. Mix with chicken a little 
cucumber pickle and a little celery, cut fine. When dressing is 
cool pour over it. Mix well. mrs. h. a. m'lemore. 

Chicken Salad. — Boil one chicken tender. Chop as fine as 
you wish; then add equal parts of chopped cabbage and celery, 
and the whites of three hard-boiled eggs. Mash the yolks of 
eggs fine ; add to them two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons 
sugar, one teaspoon mustard, one-half cup good vinegar, and 
pepper and salt to taste. Pour over the salad and stir well. 

MRS. E. E. REWIN. 



46 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Chicken Salad. — Boil two chickens very tender, remove 
all bones, skin, and fat; cut lean in small pieces; add an equal 
amount of chopped, crisp celery, reserving all stringy and outer 
stalks for flavoring soups and sauces. Mix meat and celery in 
a bowl, pour over it a tablespoon of best olive oil, one table- 
spoon of vinegar, a pinch of salt and pepper, and one-third of 
the mayonnaise sauce. Mix thoroughly ; then place this on a 
large china dish and pour over it the remainder of sauce ; smooth 
neatly and ornament with olives, hard-boiled eggs and beets, 

Sliced. MRS. N. HOLMAN. 

Potato Salad. — Pare and boil six good-sized potatoes, and 
mash well. Take up in a dish and stir well with a fork, in order 
to have them lay lightly in the dish. A half hour before serv- 
ing, slice a large onion very thin and place the slices here and 
there through the potatoes. For dressing use three teaspoons 
melted butter, three teaspoons cream, one-third teaspoon salt, 
one-third teaspoon white pepper (ground), one-half cup vinegar. 
When thoroughly cooked add two well-beaten eggs. Let stand 
till cool and pour over the potatoes, at which time the onions 
may be taken out if desired. Very convenient when you have 
mashed potatoes left over. mrs. ben cheairs. 

Potato Salad. — Six large potatoes. Boil, skin, and slice. 
Season well with salt, pepper, celery, and mustard seed. Add 
one bunch of celery (chopped), two cucumber pickles (cut in 
small pieces), two onions (cut fine), and the cooked whites of 
two eggs. Put in dish and add as much vinegar as the potatoes 
will absorb. Then pour over the following mayonnaise dress- 
ing : Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and two raw ones. Mix till 
smooth (using silver fork); add one-third pint olive oil or one 
teacup of melted butter, a little at a time, stirring always in one 
direction to prevent curdling. When the mixture is almost 
hard or stiff add a good pinch. of dry mustard and the juice of 
a lemon. Stir two-thirds of dressing in with potatoes and pour 
rest on the top. Garnish as taste suggests. 

MISS RACHAEL BARKER. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 47 

Oyster Salad. — Two dozen fresh oysters or two cans cove, 
one can salmon, one box sardines, one tablespoon mustard, one 
tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon butter, one cup vinegar, one- 
half cup milk. Season with salt, pepper, and celery seed. 
The oysters should be wiped dry and chopped very fine. Slice 
one lemon and lay on top. mrs. h. p. figures. 

Salad. — Take one can of salmon, one oi r - sardines, and two 
of cove oysters; mix thoroughly then add a mayonnaise (if it 
may be so called) made without oil, using a tablespoon of 
melted butter instead. Just before serving, add your dressing, 
into which put a half lemon's juice and a cup of whipped cream. 
This is a lovely reception salad. mrs. h. p. figures. 

French Fruit Salad. — One head of lettuce, one dozen 
English walnuts, two dozen large white grapes, three bananas, 
two oranges, one-half pint mayonnaise. Peel the oranges, 
divide into lobes, and cut each lobe into three pieces, remov- 
ing the seed. Skin the white grapes with a very sharp knife 
and remove the seed. Shell and halve the walnuts ; slice ban- 
anas with "a silver knife. Arrange the fruit on the lettuce, re- 
jecting all leaves but the crispest and most delicate. Cover 
with mayonnaise dressing and serve ice cold. 

MRS. N. R. WILKES. 

Salad Pecan. — Boil three pounds of beef till tender, chop 
fine, and add two or three small onions. Mix thoroughly, let 
stand an hour in a cool place ; then pour over it a dressing made 
of the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs mashed fine, with pep- 
per, salt, one-half cup melted butter, and vinegar. If con- 
venient, a few tablespoons of liquor from a boiled chicken 
added to the meat before dressing is poured on, will be a great 
improvement. . mrs. john moore, jr. 

Strawberry Salad. — Wash and stem one quart <of straw- 
berries, sugar with powdered sugar, and put in glass bowl. 
Pour over it the strained juice of two oranges and one-half cup 
of claret. Let it stand on ice until ready to serve. 

MRS. S. T. MAXWELL. 



48 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

PHILLIPS, WEBB & CO, 

Wboleeale Grocers 



CIGARS 



Chancellor 

Phillips Bouquet 

University Club 

El Principe de Gales 



144 and 146 N. Market Street 

W. K. PHILLIPS 
L. T. WEBB 

c; LENEHAN 

jno. h. canaday NASHVILLE, TENN, 



Dressings for Salads and Slaws. 

Mustard or Salad Dressing (very nice for lettuce especially). 
Yolks of three eggs beaten light, one heaping teaspoon mustard, 
two tablespoons white sugar, two tablespoons salt, two table- 
spoons black pepper, one-half cup melted butter. Beat all 
light and add one cup of water, with one tablespoon corn starch 
and one cup vinegar. Boil just a little. 

MRS- G. W. BLACKBURN. 

Shrimp Salad Dressing. — Two eggs (three if small), one 
wineglass oil to each egg, one-fourth teacup cream, one-half 
saltspoon salt to each egg, one-half teaspoon mustard, one-half 
lemon to each egg; capers to taste. In mixing, beat oil into 
eggs, a drop at a time; then lemon, cream, and salt; lastly the 
capers. Pour over salad, using salt. Garnish with slices of 
lemon and whole shrimps. mrs. n. r. wilkes. 

Dressings for Salads and Fish. — One-half cup sweet 
milk, one cup vinegar, one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon 
mustard, one tablespoon sugar, two eggs beaten lightly. Salt 
to suit taste. Mix and boil until thick, stirring constantly. 

MRS. H. P. FIGURES. 

Dressing for Slaw. — Two-thirds of a cup of vinegar, two. 
thirds of a cup of cream, butter size of a walnut, one table- 
spoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon celery seed, pepper and 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 49 

salt to taste. Boil until thick, and when cold pour over chopped 
cabbage. mrs. ab. adkisson. 

Dressing for Slaw. — One-half teaspoon salt, mustard and 
celery seed, one-fourth teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon flour, 
three teaspoons sugar, one egg, one-half cup vinegar. Mix 
well. Cook until thick. Remove from stove, add three-fourths 
cup cream, mix and pour over slaw. mrs. s. w. warfield. 

Cream Salad Dressing. — One cup vinegar, one cup cream, 
one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon 
butter, a speck of cayenne pepper, four eggs. Beat the eggs. 
Beat butter, salt, mustard, and sugar together and add to the 
eggs, then the vinegar, then the cream. Put in a double boiler 
and steam until it thickens, stirring constantly. If you can not 
procure cream, use milk and add the yolk of another egg. 

MRS. A. J. NICHOLS. 



VEGETABLES. 

Vegetables. — It requires care and skill to cook vegetables 
properly, so they will retain their natural flavor. It is best to 
cook them in as little water as possible. They contain so much 
water that it is not necessary to add large quantities to cook 
them. Vegetables to be cooked by boiling should be put into 
boiling water; as soon as the boiling begins, keep cooking utensil 
closely covered. If water should be added, let it be boiling hot 
Steaming or baking is preferable for most vegetables, because 
their finer flavors are more easily retained. Particularly is this 
true of tubers. The time required for cooking depends much 
upon the age and freshness of the vegetables, as well as the 
method of cooking employed. Wilted vegetables require a 
longer time for cooking than fresh ones. 

French Cabbage. — Put into a pot containing one and a half 
pints boiling water, one-half head of cabbage chopped moder- 



50 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

erately fine ; season with butter, pepper, and one-half teaspoon 
sugar. Cook only three-quarters of an hour before serving hot. 

MRS. D. W. LENEAVE. 

Baked Cabbage. —Take a small head of cabbage, tie up in 
a cloth, boil whole until thoroughly done ; take up and remove 
cloth, scoop out the center, leaving the other portion whole. 
Take the center part, chop fine, and add an equal portion of 
grated beaten biscuit or crackers. Season with butter, pepper, 
and salt, and stuff back into the head. Place in a baking dish, 
pour a teacup of cream or rich milk over, place in stove and 
brown slightly, basting every now and then with the cream. 

MRS. W. J. WEBSTER. 

Fried Squash. — Cut squash in slices a quarter of an inch 
thick, roll in pepper, salt, and meal, and fry in hot lard. 

MRS. W. J. WEBSTER. 

Summer Squash. — Wash and clean as many young, tender 
squashes as desired. Slice thin; do not peel or remove seed; 
boil until done; drain and mash fine; add salt and pepper to 
taste, a piece of butter, and a little cream. Serve while hot. 
To prepare squash an old-fashioned way is to slice tender 
squashes, put them in a skillet with two "rashers" of bacon, 
and water enough to cook done. Mash fine, add salt and pep- 
per ; let stew down until slightly brown ; remove pieces of meat 
and serve squash while hot. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Salsify or Oyster Plant Patties. — Prepare and cook very 
tender, take from the water and mash with the potato masher 
very fine. To each pint of salsify add the yolk of one egg, one 
small tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste, and rolled 
beaten biscuit or cracker crumb enough to make it stiff enough 
to roll into patties with the hands. Roll in egg and then in 
crumbs, and fry like croquettes. mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Salsify or Oyster Plant. — Wash roots of salsify and 
scrape till white. Cut in pieces not more than an inch long, 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



sprinkle with salt and boil till tender. It will take about two 
hours. Drain off the water and season with milk, butter, and 
pepper. Send to table very hot. mrs. beecher. 

Okra Fritters. — Make a thin flour batter. Boil okra thor- 
oughly done, drain and cut fine ; beat until very light, mixing 
in salt and black pepper. Then stir into the batter, and fry as 
fritters in hot lard. mrs. octavine alison. 

Okra Fritters. — One egg, half pint buttermilk, pint flour, 
nearly a pint of okra boiled tender and chopped fine, salt and 
half a teaspoon soda stirred in the last thing, pepper if liked. 
The okra is measured after it is cooked, miss annie walker. 

Asparagus. — One bunch of asparagus in just enough water 
to cover, boil quickly until tender. Leave half cup of the 
liquor and add one half cup of sweet milk, one teaspoon of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Pour over hot toast and cover 
closely. mrs. beecher. 

Cauliflower. — Take off all outside leaves, wash thoroughly 
and put in a bag, in which boil gently in salted water until 
done. Pour over melted butter, with a spoon of cream, or 
serve with white sauce. mrs. c. w. bradshaw. 

Vegetable Patties. — Potatoes, parsnips, beets, salsify, 
squash, corn, all make good patties. Boil the vegetables ten- 
der, mash well, season with butter, pepper, and salt and a small 
quantity of sugar; make a batter of one egg, one cup milk and 
two heaping tablespoons flour. Mix with your vegetables and 
fry in hot lard, a spoonful at a time. mrs. r. h. ogilyie. 

Egg Plant. — Peel and slice two medium-sized egg plants, 
sprinkle with salt and let stand one hour; then wash off salt 
and put egg plant in a porcelain-lined pan. Cook till quite 
soft, then add a tablespoon butter and put aside to cool. This 
quantity will be about one pint. Take two slices of rather 
thick-cut light bread and pour over enough sweet milk to soften 
the bread. Beat three eggs very light and mix well, seasoning 



52 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

THE B. H. STIEF JEWELRY COMPANY 

JEWELERS, SILVERSMITHS, STATIONERS, 
DIAMONDS, WATCHES, FANCY GOODS. 

REPAIRING OF WATCHES, JEWELRY AND SPECTACLES A SPECIAI/TY. 
MAIL ORDERS HAVE PROMPT ATTENTION. 



with salt and pepper. Put the whole mixture in a porcelain- 
lined pan to bake, and send to table in pan. 

Squash may be prepared in the same way, except to run 
them through a sieve to take out seeds, mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. — Green peas cooked; let cool, dress 
with mayonnaise and stuff tomatoes with it. 

MRS. FRANK EVERETT. 

Tomatoes Fried in Batter. — Make a batter of one egg 
beaten separately, one cup of flour, one cup sweet milk, one 
heaping teaspoon of butter, one-half teaspoon salt, one small 
teaspoon baking powder. Into this slice thick slices of tomatoes, 
not too ripe. Fry as you would oysters, in batter. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Dressed Turnips. — Take about one-quarter pound of bacon, 
put over the fire as early as half-past nine o'clock. Cook slowly. 
Have ready sliced turnips, put in with the bacon and cook long 
enough to be quite tender. About twenty minutes before serv- 
ing, take a small quantity of the liquor, with drawn butter, 
pinch salt, and some cayenne pepper used as a sauce. Do not 
break the slices of turnip, place on individual saucers, serve 
with the sauce poured over. mrs. j. j. stephenson. 

Candied Potatoes. — Boil sweet potatoes till done, slice and 
lay in baking dish ; cover with one cup sugar, teaspoon butter, 
nearly cover with hot water, allow to bake till brown and juice 
is reduced to syrup. mrs. w. b. harrison. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 53 

Potato Souffle. — Clean and bake six large potatoes, cut 
off tops, scoop out inside, being careful not to break the shells. 
Rub potato through a sieve ; add two tablespoons boiling sweet 
milk, into which one tablespoon butter and one-half teaspoon 
salt and white pepper have been stirred. Place on fire, stir until 
potato becomes hot. remove from fire, add yolks of three eggs, 
beating each one separately; then stir in lightly the frothed 
whites of five eggs, fill the potato shells two-thirds full of this 
mixture, stand each one upright in a pan, bake quickly about 
ten minutes. Serve on hot platter. The mixture that is left 
after filling shells can be baked in a small dish. 

MISS RACHAEL BARKER. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake six medium-sized potatoes, cut 
in halves, and, without breaking the skin, scoop out the pota- 
toes into a hot bowl. Mash, and add a little butter, one-half 
cup hot milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat the whites of 
two eggs stiff and mix it with the potato. Fill the skins with 
the potato mixture, heaping it slightly on the top. Brown 
slightly. * MRS. A. J. NICHOLS. 

Stuffed Beets. — Cook young beets until tender, remove 
skins, and cool in spiced vinegar. Cut out the center to form a 
cup, and chop this with an equal amount of cucumber and a 
little celery. Mix together, adding a few olives. (If desired, 
moisten with cooked dressing.) Place in cups; serve on let- 
tuce leaves. mrs. m' alpine. 

Parsnips. — Scrape the parsnips, slice and parboil; then 
place in a baking pan with just enough water to prevent burn- 
ing, sprinkle with a little brown sugar, salt, and pepper, and 
place strips of fat bacon on to season. Bake. 

MRS. A. S. PETTIE. 

Boston Baked Beans. — Wash one quart navy beans and 
soak over night; put in crock, cover with water, and add to 
beans one-half pound pork, one tablespoon salt, one teaspoon 
pepper, one-half cup molasses, one tablespoon vinegar. Bake 
four hours, and add water as needed. mrs. joe brownlow. 



54 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Corn Patties (for dinner). — Cut and scrape the corn from 
the ear. To each pint of corn add yolk of one egg, one tea- 
spoon sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, a little pepper, two tea- 
spoons milk, one teaspoon flour, one large teaspoon of butter. 
When ready to fry add one teaspoon baking powder and the 
well-beaten white of egg. mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Canned Corn. — Cut from the cob twenty-one quarts of 
corn; dissolve three and one-half ounces of tartaric acid in a 
little hot water; put plenty of water, together with the acid, on 
the corn and boil well. When well cooked put in glass jars and 
seal hot. Be certain to put in plenty of water. When ready 
for use drain off the water and add fresh water and a small 
spoon of soda and let stand before cooking. Take from this 
water and cook with a little milk, sugar, salt, and butter. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Corn Cakes — Grate about twenty ears of corn; four eggs, 
one cup milk, small handful flour, salt, and pepper. Fry in 
butter. mrs. jas. rockwell. 

Stewed Corn. — Take four ears of tender corn, cut off care- 
fully two thin cuts, then scrape the rest; this will be very juicy. 
Pour it into skillet with the hot grease from one thin slice of 
bacon, add one cup of hot water, season with salt, pepper, and 
butter. Stir frequently. mrs. beecher. 

Corn Pudding. — Six or eight ears of corn grated, one-half 
pint of sweet milk, tablespoon of butter, two eggs well beaten, 
a little salt, and two tablespoons of sugar. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 

To Cook Canned Corn. — Put corn, without opening can, 
in boiling water and cook fifteen minutes. Open and put in 
dish with tablespoon of butter and one-half cup cream that has 
been heated. Salt and serve. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Potato Puff and Cheese. — Two cups of cold, mashed 
potatoes, two eggs, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon melted 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



butter, three tablespoons of grated cheese, salt and pepper. 
Beat potatoes, milk, and butter until very light, add eggs, pep- 
per and salt to taste. Pour into greased pudding dish, cover 
top thickly with the cheese, and bake until brown. 

MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 



Medicinal Properties in Foods. 

Lettuce and cucumbers assist in cooling the blood. 

Raw onions are good for insomnia, and cooked onions or 
onion soup is an excellent remedy in debility of the digestive 
organs. 

Tomatoes are good for torpid liver. 

Spinach and dandelion are considered excellent for the 
kidneys. 

Celery is a good tonic for the nerves. 

Beans are considered one of the most nutritous and strength- 
ening of vegetables. 

Beets, turnips, and potatoes are fattening. 



MACARONI. 

Macaroni, Italian Style. — Place a saucepan with three 
quarts of water over the fire, add one tablespoon salt; when it 
boils up, add half pound macaroni broken in finger lengths, 
stir a few minutes, then cover and cook till macaroni is soft, 
which will take about an hour; drain in colander. In the 
meantime cook two tablespoons finely chopped onion and one 
tablespoon butter in a saucepan three minutes; add a small 
piece bruised garlic, half of green pepper chopped fine, half 
can tomatoes, half teaspoon salt, quarter teaspoon pepper, one 
teaspoon sugar. Cover and cook fifteen minutes, then drain 
and put macaroni and the tomato dressing in alternate layers in 
dish ; put grated cheese on top and brown in oven. 

MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 



56 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Cbe ea$mer=Kno« mm SfigR 
Dry goods Co. «« ||(jj| %£$& 

203 TO 2JJ NORTH SUMMER STREET 
NASHVILLE = TENNESSEE 

MAIL ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT AND CAREFUL ATTENTION 

Macaroni with Tomatoes. — Take three pints of beef soup, 
clear, and put one pound of macaroni in it. Add salt and boil 
fifteen minutes. Take up macaroni, put on platter, sprinkle 
thickly with grated cheese and pour over it a sauce made of 
tomatoes well broiled, strained, and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Deviled Spaghetti. — Boil carefully for about twenty min- 
utes four ounces of spaghetti; drain and put in cold water for 
fifteen minutes, drain again and chop fine. Put one tablespoon 
of butter and one of flour in a saucepan, add half a pint of 
milk, stir constantly till it boils, add the spaghetti, a teaspoon 
salt, a dash of pepper, a few drops of onion juice, a lijttle 
parsley, and three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. Put into 
individual dishes, cover lightly with bread crumbs and brown 
quickly in a hot oven. Serve with a tablespoon of catsup in 
the center of each. mrs. w. b. harrison. 

GRAINS OR CEREAL FOODS. 

Grains or Cereal Food. — Cereals are easily digested when 
properly cooked. Always have the water boiling when the 
cereals are added. Use a double boiler or steam cooker. The 
following combination of foods are considered the best : Grains 
or cereal food and milk; cereal food and eggs; cereal food and 
fruits; cereal food and vegetables; cereal food and meats. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



Boiled Southern Rice. — One cup of rice thoroughly 
washed, cover with two cups of cold water; add one level 
teaspoon of salt, cook in an ordinary covered stewpan next the 
fire, for five or ten minutes; then place on the back of the stove 
for twenty minutes, and let stand for ten minutes longer with the 
cover removed to dry out all the grains. 

MRS. JEFFERSON DAVIS. 

Breakfast Food. — One cup Pettijohn's food (measuring 
cup), two cups boiling water, one teaspoon salt, one-half pound 
dates, seeded. mrs. s. t. maxwell. 

To Boil Rice Dry. — One and a half cups rice washed and 
drained, two and one-half cups of boiling water, a pinch of salt, 
cover saucepan and boil until done, then remove the top and 
put on back of stove to dry. Do not stir. 

MRS. W. J. WEBSTER. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS. 

Sixty drops make one small teaspoon. 

Two teaspoons equal one dessertspoon. 

Four teaspoons equal one tablespoon. 

Four tablespoons equal one wineglass. 

Two wineglasses equal one gill. 

Two gills equal one coffeecup. 

Two coffeecups equal one pint liquid, or one pound of dry 
material. 

Four gills make one pint. 

Two pints one quart. 

Four quarts one gallon. 

Two ordinary tumblers make one pint liquid. 

One coffeecup equals one-half pint liquid or one-half pound 
dry material. 

One heaping tablespoon salt or sugar weighs one ounce. 

5 



58 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

One heaping tablespoon butter weighs one ounce. 
Two round tablespoons flour weigh one ounce. 
Four cups of sifted flour weigh one pound. 
Two cups meal weigh one pound. 

Two coffeecups meat (or a pint measure) packed solid weigh 
one pound. 

One pint of liquid weighs one pound. 

One coffeecup of butter packed solid equals one-half pound. 

Hints to Housekeepers. 

Measuring. — An important matter to be observed in the 
cooking of foods is correct measuring. Many failures are made 
from lack of care in this respect. As measures are more con- 
venient than weights, they are more generally used. The large- 
sized coffeecup, which holds half a pint, is a good standard to 
go by. The following are good rules to follow : 

First — Flour, sugar, and salt that has been packed, should 
be sifted before measuring. 

Second — A cup of dry material should be measured level 
with the top of the cup without being packed down. 

Third — A cup of liquid should be all the cup will hold with- 
out overflowing. 

Fourth — The teaspoon and tablespoon, commonly recom- 
mended in cook books, is the silver spoon in general use. 



BREAD. 

Light Bread. 

Light Bread. — One pint sweet milk heated a little more 
than lukewarm, one tablespoon sugar, and flour enough to make 
a thick batter. Beat well into the batter half pint of yeast or 
one tablespoon of dry yeast dissolved in a little warm water, 



To have the best bread you 
MUST have the BEST flour 



Every pound of "BLUE SEAL" is guaranteed. It 
is manufactured from SELECTED wheat, which 
makes it BETTER than the average flour. When 
ordering specify "BLUE SEAL." 



COLUMBIA MILL & ELEVATOR CO. 

COLUMBIA, TENN. 



"Sweetheart" Baking Powder 

Produces FINE RESULTS. Guaranteed pure and 
wholesome. SAVE the COUPONS and get FREE 
a 50-piece China Dinner Set. 



"Silver near Soda 



Guaranteed standard strength and pure. One-pound 
package 5 cents. Coupon in each package. 



AT ALL GIfcOOEF* 



MANUFACTURED BY 



SOUTHERN SODA WORKS COMPANY 

NASHVILLE, TEiNlSr. 



60 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

and set in a warm place to rise. When it has risen to a 
ittle more than twice its size — which it should do in from 
three to four hours — add a tablespoon of lard and sufficient salt 
and enough flour to make a dough. Knead well, make into 
loaves, and set to rise again. It will be ready to bake in from 
an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Bake in a slow 
oven from three-quarters to an hour. Graham and whole wheat 
bread are made in the same way, using about one-third white 
flour and more or less sugar to taste. miss annie walker. 

Salt-rising Bread. — Take one teacup of fresh milk, let 
come to a boil, then pour into a pint cup and thicken with corn 
meal ; cover and let set in a warm place over night. In the 
morning take one pint of fresh milk and add to it one-half pint 
of hot water and the mush; then thicken to a stiff batter with 
flour, adding one teaspoon of salt. Set this yeast into a vessel 
of hot water, as warm as you can bear your hand in. When it 
rises, take flour and lard— to one gallon of flour two tablespoons 
of lard — and make as you would any other bread. 

MRS. JOHN W. CECIL. 

Salt-rising Bread. — Make a stiff batter of warm water and 
one pint flour; add a half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of 
sugar, and one tablespoon of corn meal. Set in pot of warm 
water (and keep warm) to rise. If it gets too thin while rising, 
stir in more flour, but don't stir after it begins to bead. This 
quantity of yeast will make a large loaf of bread by adding 
sweet milk or warm water. Use flour enough to make a mod- 
erately stiff dough. Work into flour a piece of lard the size of 
an egg; add a teaspoon of salt, then the yeast and milk, or 
water. Don't knead too much. Let rise again and bake. 

''aunt fibby." 

Yeast Bread. — One pint sweet milk, one pint water, one 
teaspoon salt, one tablespoon lard, three tablespoons sugar. 
Boil these ingredients together one minute. When cold add a 
half cake of Fleischmann's compressed east; add flour enough 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 61 

for a stiff batter. When it is very light mix into a dough and 
let rise again. Then put it into the pans, and when it is light 
bake m moderately hot oven. mrs. dexter. 

Quick Light Bread. — Add six teaspoons of baking powder 
to four quarts of flour, sift twice, add sufficient water and milk 
to make a dough, knead into six loaves, place in greased pans, 
brush with milk, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 

Rolls. 

Light Rolls. — One cake of Fleischman's yeast dissolved 
in a teacup of warm water, one heaping half gallon of flour, 
one tablespoon of salt, and a piece of lard the size of an egg ; 
add yeast and enough warm water to make a soft dough. 
Sprinkle flour in bottom of tin bucket, put in the dough, and 
set in warm place to rise. Then take sponge from bucket, and 
use enough flour to knead and make into rolls. Place in well- 
greased roll-pans, cover, and set on back of stove to rise; then 
put in oven and bake. When brown grease tops with butter. 
Be careful not to have dough too stiff. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Buns. — One and a half cups sweet milk heated to a little 
more than lukewarm, half a cup of sugar, and flour to make a 
stiff batter; add last three-fourths cup yeast and set to rise in a 
warm place. When well risen, work in half a cup of sugar, 
half cup butter, a few drops of lemon extract, a little nutmeg, 
salt, and flour to make a dough. Roll into cakes, put in pan 
so they do not touch and set in a warm place to rise again. 
They will be ready to bake in about one and a half hours. 

MISS ANNIE WALKER. 

Quick Rolls. — Two cups scalded milk, three yeast cakes 
softened in tepid (almost cold) water, two tablespoons sugar, 
one teaspoon salt. Stir in flour to make light batter, beat and 
put in warm place to rise. Stir in about six cups flour and 



62 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

knead thoroughly — ten or fifteen minutes would be best. Set 
to rise; brush over with sugar dissolved in milk, and bake in 
pretty quick oven. Four yeast cakes may be used if in hurry. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARD. 

Potato Rolls. — One cup of flour, three-fourths cup of lard, 
one cup of potatoes mixed together, then add one-fourth cup of 
sugar, then two eggs, one at a time, then one cup of sweet 
milk lukewarm. In one-half cup of lukewarm water dissolve 
one yeast cake. Let that rise two hours, then put in six cups 
of flour and let that rise two hours; then roll in a pocket-shape 
roll, butter in between, let that rise, and bake. Very good. 

MRS. A. SAMUELS. 



Sally Lunn and Boston Brown Bread. 

Quick Sally Lunn. — Sift together one pint flour, three 
teaspoons sugar, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream of 
tartar, and one-half teaspoon of salt. Rub into this one table- 
spoon butter, then add the well-beaten yolk of one egg, two- 
thirds cup milk, and lastly the beaten white of egg. Bake in 
three layers. Butter well each layer before stacking to serve. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Quick Sally Lunn. — One cup sugar, one-half cup butter; 
stir these well together. Two eggs, one pint sweet milk, three 
teaspoons baking powder in sufficient flour to make batter as 
stiff as cake batter. Bake quickly and butter while hot. 

MRS. MEEK. 

Sally Lunn. — Two eggs beaten separately, one half teacup 
of sugar, one teacup of butter, one teacup of yeast, one quart 
flour. Beat sugar with yolks of eggs ; then butter and whites 
of eggs, and enough flour to make smooth. Just before adding 
the quart of flour add yeast. Knead well, let rise, and bake. 
Before serving sift sugar over top, and slice like jelly cake. 

MRS. N. R. WILKES. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 63 

Sally Lunn. — Two eggs beaten very light, one-half cup of 
sugar, one cup butter, one cup yeast, one quart of flour. Put 
to rise at n o'clock, and it will be ready for tea at 6 o'clock. 

MRS. C. A. FORGY. 

Boston Brown Bread. — Two cups meal, two cups Graham 
flour, one cup molasses, two cups buttermilk, one teaspoon salt, 
one teaspoon soda. Mix together and put in gallon bucket and 
steam three hours. mrs. joe brownlow. 

Brown Bread. — Three cups sweet milk, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, two cups cornmeal, two cups Graham meal, one heaping 
teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt. Steam three hours, and 
then brown in oven if desirable. mrs. james rockwell. 



Muffins. 

Royal Sally Lunn Muffins. — One quart flour, one table- 
spoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, three teaspoons baking powder, 
one large tablespoon lard, one egg, one and one-quarter pints of 
sweet milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder; 
rub in lard cold; add egg, beaten separately; then all the milk 
at once. Beat until smooth, and put in cold rings and bake. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Muffins. — Two eggs, three teacups of flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder, one tablespoon butter melted, one pint sweet 
milk, one-half teacup sugar, a little salt. mrs. hatcher. 

Light Muffins. — Two-thirds cup of rolled oats (measuring 
cup), one and one-third cups hot milk, one-half spoon salt, 
three teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon butter, one egg, 
three tablespoons sugar. mrs. s. t. maxwell. 

Cream Muffins. — One pint of flour sifted with one heaping 
teaspoon of baking powder. Beat together one pint of cream 
and one tablespoon of butter; add two beaten eggs; mix in the 
flour, drop into buttered moulds, and bake quickly. 

MRS. W\ B. HARRISON. 



64 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Corn Muffins. — One pint meal, two eggs, one cup butter- 
milk (not too sour), pinch of soda, and one tablespoon melted 
lard, stirred in last. Scalded meal makes them lighter. 

''AUNT FIBBY." 

Biscuit. 

Soda Biscuit. — One quart of flour placed in sifter with a 
heaping teaspoon of salt and a light teaspoon of soda. Sift all 
together. Place a heaping tablespoon of lard in center of flour, 
rubbing in thoroughly. Mix with one-half pint of clabber, stir- 
ring lightly until thick enough to roll easily. Cut the biscuit 
not quite an inch thick, and bake quickly in a hot oven. 

MRS. O. C. OWEN. 

Soda Biscuit. — One-half gallon of flour, one teacup lard, 
one tablespoon (level) salt, one teaspoon of soda. Mix with 
buttermilk, knead smooth; bake in hot oven. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARD. 

Light Biscuit. — Two pints flour, one and a half pints sour 
milk (buttermilk), two tablespoons lard, one teaspoon salt. 
Make into a batter early in the morning. At night take half 
this batter, and add one pint of flour and a small teaspoon of 
soda; knead lightly; make out with the hands and bake. Use 
the other half for breakfast. In cold weather let it stand longer 
than one day before using. mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Beaten Biscuit. — One quart of flour, one large tablespoon 
of lard, one teaspoon of salt, enough sweet milk to make a stiff 
dough. Work well together, and beat until it begins to blister 
(usually fifteen minutes will be sufficient). Roll out dough not 
quite half an inch thick, stick with fork, and bake quickly. 

MRS. W. P. WOLDRIDGE. 

Beaten Biscuit. — To one quart of flour add a piece of lard 
the size of an egg and one teaspoon of salt; mix to a stiff 
dough with iced sweet milk, and beat thirty minutes. Bake in 
moderate oven. mrs. a. s. james. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 05 

MAURY NATIONAL BANK 

COLUMBIA, TENN. 



Capital and Surplus, . . $100,000.00 
Deposits, 350,000.00 

telephone no. 47. your business solicited. 

R. C. CHURCH, President. C. A. PARKER, Cashier. 

Dainty Wafers. — One scant coffeecup sifted flour, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoon salt, one generous tablespoon 
of butter melted and poured over hot, one heaping teaspoon 
baking powder. To make extra nice, add the white of one egg 
beaten to a froth. This may be omitted. Stir the whole to a 
stiff batter and drop a scant teaspoonful on slightly-greased 
wafer irons. mrs. a. j. nichols. 

Crackers. — One-half pint flour, little salt, piece of butter 
size of an egg. Make in stiff dough with little sweet milk. 
Roll very thin, and bake in quick oven. mrs. kate o>leman. 

Biscuits. — Two quarts of flour, two teaspoons salt; make 
in a thick batter with buttermilk. Let the batter stand twelve 
hours; take one teaspoon of soda and work it into two table- 
spoons of lard; work the lard into one-half the batter. This 
measure will make forty biscuits. mrs. Robert ewing. 



Waffles and Flannel Cakes. 

Waffles. — One tablespooon of sifted meal, a piece of lard 
the size of an egg, one teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of 
boiling water. Into this mush break one egg, and beat well. 
Add one pint of buttermilk and one pint of flour; beat until 
smooth. When ready to bake add one teaspoon of soda, and 
put in hot oven. mrs. stuart Fleming. 



66 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Rice Waffles. — One pint cooked rice, one pint buttermilk, 
one egg, one tablespoon melted lard, one pint flour, pinch of 
salt and soda. Beat well together; grease waffle irons, fry 
brown, butter and serve hot. mrs. n. holman. 

Waffles. — Mix one quart flour and one-fourth pound butter ; 
add two well-beaten eggs, sweet milk to make moderately thin ; 
add one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons baking powder. 

MRS. A. H. SHIELDS. 

Waffles. — One pint flour, two eggs, one tablespoon melted 
lard, one cup sweet milk, one tablespoon of baking powder, a 
pinch of salt. Beat eggs well; add milk, then flour, baking 
powder and salt, and lard last. Fry in well-greased hot irons; 
butter and serve while hot. " aunt fibby." 

Virginia Buckwheat Cakes. — One quart of buckwheat, 
one quart of warm water ; mix well. To this batter add a half 
cake of Fleischman's yeast (dissolved in a little warm water) 
and one tablespoon of salt. Put in warm place to rise. Next 
morning add to the batter one egg, one tablespoon of molasses, 
and a pinch of soda. Thin with sweet milk, and bake on hot 
baker with very little grease. Reserve a cup of batter to make 
fresh cakes. Use instead of yeast, as too much yeast spoils 
batter. mrs. f. b. webb. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — Mix over night with warm water, one 
pint of buckwheat, one . teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of 
molasses, to the consistency of griddle cakes. When ready to 
bake for breakfast, add two teaspoons of cream tartar and one 
of soda. If too thick, thin with a little warm water before 
adding the cream tartar and soda. mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Flannel Cakes. — Take one quart of flour and make into a 
thin batter with fresh buttermilk ; let this stand one night in a 
covered crock. In the morning, add one half teaspoon of salt, 
one teaspoon of soda, two eggs, and one tablespoon butter. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 67 

Flannel Cakes — Four eggs, beaten very lightly, one pint 
sour cream, one pint water, one and a half pints flour, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, stirred in the cream. 

MRS. H. P. FIGUERS. 

Flannel Cakes. — One pint flour, two tablespoons granu- 
lated sugar, pinch of salt; mix with sweet milk to make thick 
batter ; add four eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and 
just before baking, add teaspoon of baking powder. Beat all to 
a thick batter; bake in a moderately hot griddle. 

MRS. FRANK EVERETT. 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes without Eggs. — At supper 
time, make about one pint of mush, rather thick and well 
cooked. When lukewarm, stir in about one-fourth of yeast 
cake which has been dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Put 
in moderately warm place ; if this has risen by morning, add to 
it two tablespoons, or a little more, of flour, one teaspoon su- 
gar, and salt to taste. Drop on a hot and well-greased baker, 
and cook quickly. In warm weather a pinch of soda will be 
necessary. A spoonful of the mixture can be saved for the 
next mixing. mrs. beecher. 

Corn Bread. 

Blue Ribbon Corn Bread. — Two pints of meal, one level 
teaspoon of soda, one level teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of 
lard and butter mixed. Make into a dough (sufficiently stiff to 
form into pones), with buttermilk and a little cream. Bake 
quickly. mrs. w. P. woldridge. 

Corn Bread (for dinner.) — One quart of meal, one-half 
teaspoon of soda, one-half teaspoon of salt, one small tablespoon 
of lard; mix with fresh buttermilk to a stiff dough, and work it 
well. Make into small pones and place on hot greased baker. 
After it has risen, grease the top and run in the top of the 
stove, to brown quick. mrs. stuart Fleming. 



68 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



A great deal depends upon the FLAVOR of your food. 

WEBB'S 

FLAVORING 

EXTRACTS 

impart just the right flavor. 



Try a can of WEBB'S BAKING POWDER next 
baking. A fine cake maker. 



Mush Bread. — One-half pint of meal before it is sifted; 
make this into a thin mush, and add to it one pint of sweet 
milk, one pint of flour, two eggs, lard the size of a hen's egg, 
and a pinch of salt. The lard should be made sizzing hot be- 
fore being added to the batter. Pour into greased pans and 
bake quickly. The batter should not be over one-half inch 

thick. MRS. J. D. BARROW. 

Hominy Bread. — Stir in two cups of hot grits a large 
spoonful of butter, and a pinch of salt, two eggs beaten light, 
two cups sweet milk, one cup meal; mix as batter bread. Bake 
in deep pan, allowing space for rising, mrs. j. w. webster. 

Corn Bread. — Scald one pint of meal with one cup of hot 
water. Add to this one rounded tablespoon of lard, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one level teaspoon soda, and one cup sour milk ; 
mix thoroughly with the hand and form into small pones. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 69 

Place these on a hot, well-greased baker and put to bake on top 
rack. The stove must be hot, to have the bread brown and 

Smooth. MRS. T. N. FIGUERS. 

Old-Fashioned Corn Light Bread. — Make three cups of 
mush; add a half teaspoon of salt and one tablespoon of melted 
lard. When cool (not cold) stir in meal till thicker than egg- 
bread batter. Set in warm place to rise.- When it rises, stir in 
one cup sweet milk, one cup meal, one cup flour, a heaping 
tablespoon of sugar, and a half teaspoon of salt. Put in a 
warm, well-greased pan; let rise and bake. When done, roll 
in cloth of several thicknesses, to keep soft. 

" AUNT FIBBY." 

Virginia Mush Bread. — One cup meal, two cups butter- 
milk, one cup sweet milk, one egg, one small lump butter. 
Bake in pan, and dip out with spoon. mrs. r. p. dodson. 

Indian Pudding {breakfast dish). — One pint sweet milk, 
put on in double boiler, to which add gradually not quite a tea- 
cup of meal and a little salt. Cook like mush. Take off fire 
and add butter size of an egg. Let cool, and add beaten yolks 
of four eggs, to cool mixture. Beat whites to a stiff froth, stir 
into mixture, and bake in pan set in pan of water. 

MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 



CAKES. 

Cake. — Too much care can not be given to the preparation 
of the oven, which is oftener too hot than too cold. However, 
an oven too cold at first will ruin any cake. A good plan is to 
fill the stove with hard wood, let it burn until there is a good 
steady heat, and then turn the damper, so as to throw the heat 
to the bottom of oven for fully ten minutes betore the cake is 
put in. Add wood in small quantities, for if the heat becomes 
slack the cake will be heavy. If necessary to move the cake 



70 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

while baking do it very gently. Allow about thirty minutes 
for each inch of thickness in a quick oven, and more time in a 
slow one. Settling away from the pan a little is an indication 
that the cake is ready to leave the oven. It should remain in 
the pan at least fifteen minutes after taking from the oven. 

White Cake {delicious). — One pound flour, heavy weight, 
one pound powdered sugar, three-quarters of a pound of but- 
ter, whites of sixteen eggs, one heaping teaspoon of Royal 
baking powder. Cream butter and sugar until very light and 
white, add one-fourth of flour, then one-fourth of the beaten 
eggs; mix well, then stir in half of the remaining flour and 
eggs; beat this well and then put in the rest of the flour and 
eggs. Sift the baking powder into the flour. 

MRS. S. A. CRANBERRY. 

Silver Cake. — Two cups sugar, half cup butter creamed 
together, three-quarters of a cup of sweet milk, four cups flour, 
whites of nine well-beaten eggs, two teaspoons of baking powder 
with same amount of flour sifted in. mrs. J. E. dixon. 

Delicate Cake. — Whites of seven eggs, three cups flour, 
two cups sugar, one cup butter, two-thirds cup sweet milk, two 
even teaspoons baking powder sifted in the flour. Flavor with 
vanilla. mrs. h. a. m'lemore. 

White Cake. — Whites of twelve eggs, three cups sugar, 
one cup butter, one cup milk, five cups flour, two teaspoons 
Cleveland's baking powder. Bake in layers, and use for filling 
two cups sugar, whites of two eggs beaten well. Cook sugar 
till it ropes, mix smooth and fast. Flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. N. F. VAUGHAN. 

Corn Starch Cakes. — And to one paper of corn starch 
two tablespoons of flour; cream together one pound of sugar 
and three-fourths of a pound of butter; break into this one 
whole egg, add a little flour, and beat hard. Continue this till 
seven eggs (and all the flour) are used. Flavor with vanilla, 
and bake quickly in small tins. mrs. c. a. parker. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



71 



Send 3 cents in 

Stamps, 

with your 

name and address, 

for 

"Cake Secrets 
Booklet," 

which tells all about 

making 

fine cakes, etc. 



Address Dept. L. 



IGLEHEflRTS 




Swan's 
Down 
Prepared 
Cake Flour 



Makes Delicious Angel Food and Other Cakes. 
"you cannot fail to make good cakes with 
■*■ this flour. Not a self-rising flour, but 
good all the year 'round. Endorsed by best 
teachers of cookery. - 

Package contains flour for 12 cakes. Sold 
by the best grocers everywhere. 

This article will enable you to serve some 
very attractive and delicious dainties in 
your home. 

IGZEHEART BROS., 

EVANSVILLE, INDIANA. 



Corn Starch Cake. — Whites of seven eggs, two cups pul- 
verized sugar, three cups flour, one cup of corn starch, one cup 
sweet milk, one cup butter, three teaspoons baking powder. 

MRS. JOHN F. STEPHENSON. 

Cocoanut Cake. — Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one cup sweet milk, three and a half cups flour, whites of four 
eggs, one teaspoon baking powder, one-half teaspoon extract of 
almonds. Bake in jelly tins. 

Filling. —One grated cocoanut, one cup sugar, whites of three 
eggs. Spread between layers and top of cake. 

MRS. AB. ADKISSON. 



72 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Angels' Food. — Whites of eleven eggs, one and a half tum- 
blers of pulverized sugar, one tumbler of flour sifted three or 
four times; then add to the flour one heaping teaspoon of cream 
tartar, and sift again. Beat eggs to a stiff froth in the bowl in 
which it is to be made. Stir in the sugar lightly, then the flour 
gently; then one teaspoon of vanilla. Stir all very gently, and 
do not stop stirring until ready to put into pan. Use a pan that 
has not been greased, and bake forty minutes in moderate oven. 
Do not open the stove till cake has been in fifteen minutes. 
When done let it remain in pan till cool. Then loosen with 
knife, and turn out and ice immediately. The tumbler for 
measuring should hold two and one-fourth gills. 

MRS. JOE BROWN LOW. 

Two-Egg Cake. — The whites of two eggs, one cup sugar, 
two cups of flour, one-half cup milk, one tablespoon of butter, 
level teaspoon of baking powder. Use the yolks with the same 
proportions. To be baked in layers. mrs. r. h. ogilvie. 

White Layer Cake. — The whites of twelve eggs, five cups 
flour, three cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, two 
heaping teaspoons baking powder, flavor to taste. Cream sugar 
and butter thoroughly, add stiff-beaten whites and beat ten min- 
utes. Add milk and beat in lightly the flour. This makes 
four layers. mrs. john w. Cecil. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. — Yolks of six eggs, three cups 
flour, two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, two 
teaspoons baking powder. Bake in three layers. Use as filling 
three cups brown sugar, one cup water. Boil rapidly twenty 
minutes ; add steamed chocolate, boil fifteen minutes longer, 
then beat about five minutes, and spread between layers and on 
top of cake. mrs. w. l. rucker. 

Cocoanut Cake. — Cut a sponge cake in three layers. Grate 
one large cocoanut, one pound white sugar, one teacup of water, 
juice of one orange. Boil sugar a few moments; stir in cocoa- 
nut and orange juice. Spread between layers. 

MRS. N. R. WILKES. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 73 

Chocolate and Marshmallow Cake.— One-fourth pound 
of grated chocolate, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, 
and two eggs. Mix thoroughly, and boil until thick and smooth, 
stirring constantly. Set aside to cool, and then add two table- 
spoons of vanilla. Make this mixture first; when cool add it 
to the following batter, mixing well : One cup sugar, one-fourth 
cup butter, two cups flour, and two eggs. To the flour add 
three-fourths teaspoon of soda, and sift. If batter is too stiff 
after adding chocolate mixture, use enough sweet milk to make 
it of proper consistency. This makes two thick layers. For 
dressing use one cup granulated sugar and enough water to 
cover it. Let cook till almost candy, then add the well-beaten 
whites of two eggs. Drop into this mixture one-fourth pound 
of fresh marshmallows which have been thoroughly heated in 
the oven. Mash well, let cool, and spread between and on top 
of cakes. mrs. sallie morgan. 

Marshmallow Cake. — Three eggs beaten separately, one 
and a half cups granulated sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two heaping teaspoons baking 
powder, two squares chocolate dissolved in one-half cup of hot 
water. Cream butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs thoroughly; 
then add milk and whites of eggs beaten stiff, then flour. Stir 
hard; then add chocolate, and bake in layers. 

Filling. — One cup sugar, enough water to cover it well, the 
beaten whites of two eggs. Drop into the mixture one-half 
pound of marshmallows which have been thoroughly heated in 
the oven. Mash well and put between the two layers. 

MRS. BEN CHEAIRS. 

White Cake. — Three eggs (whites), one cup sugar, one and 
three-quarter cups sifted flour, one tablespoon butter, one tea- 
spoon cream of tartar, one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake in long tin pan in quick oven. 

MRS. KATE COLEMAN. 



74 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Eggless Cake. — One teacup of sugar sifted, two large cups 
of flour, one teacup sour milk, one level teaspoon soda, one 
teacup raisins, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon spice, one 
teaspoon nutmeg. If you wish a chocolate cake use three heap- 
ing teaspoons of chocolate or cocoa. mrs. r. h. ogilvie. 

Golden Cake. — Yolks of sixteen eggs, three cups flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, two cups sugar, one cup butter, and 
one cup sweet milk. Flavor as desired. 

MISS SALLIE LOONEY. 

Yellow Perfection (sponge cake). — Six eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, one scant pint-cup sugar, two full pint- 
cups of flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder sifted in the 
flour. Sift the flour and sugar two or three times; one cup 
lukewarm water, or cold will do (the water to be mixed with the 
sugar and eggs after beating the yolks and sugar together well). 
Flour to be lightly put in just before putting in the pan. No 
grease to be used about the pan ; when done, turn bottom up- 
ward on something that will let in the air, and remain until cold 
before attempting to take from the pan. Have the oven just 
warm, and gradually increase the heat. Forty minutes is suffi- 
cient time to bake if heat is right. When it begins to wrinkle 
on top is evidence it needs more heat on top. Never take a 
sponge cake out the pan until thoroughly cool, as its own weight 
will cause it to collapse. mrs. r. h. ogilvie. 

Premium Sponge Cake. — Twelve eggs, leaving out yolks of 
four; one pound sugar; weight of six eggs in flour, juice of 
fresh lemon. Yolks of eggs must be beaten very light; then 
add sugar, then whites of eggs beaten light; lastly, the flour 
stirred in lightly, and when well mixed add the lemon juice. 
Bake one hour. mrs. e. t. allen. 

Very Light Sponge Cake. — Two cups flour, two cups 
sugar, eight eggs, one-half cup milk, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, Beat eggs separately very light ; put them together and 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 75 

beat again. Add sugar and beat again ; add milk and flavor- 
ing, and beat well. Add flour very lightly, and bake quick. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Nice, Quick Sponge Cake. — Six eggs, two teacups flour, 
two teacups sugar, ten tablespoons of boiling water, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder. Beat yellows of eggs and sugar 
together, add whites ; then one cup of flour sifted in, and then 
one spoon of water at a time until ten are used. Then sift in 
the other cup of flour and baking powder. Bake quick. 

MRS. ROBERT EWING. 

Three-Egg Cake. — One and one-third cups sugar, small 
half-cup butter, three eggs, two-thirds cup milk, two and one- 
half cups sifted flour, one big teaspoon baking powder, one big 
teaspoon vanilla. MRS. nettie ruttle. 

Park-St. Cake. — Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup milk, four cups sifted flour, four eggs, two teaspoons cream 
of tartar, one teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons vanilla. This 
will make two nice, square cakes; ice one with white and the 
other with chocolate. Use cocoa dissolved in hot water instead 
of chocolate. mrs. nettie ruttle. 

Spice Cake. — One pound sugar, one pound flour, three- 
fourths pound butter, ten eggs, one teaspoon mace and cinna- 
mon, each ; one scant teaspoon cloves, one nutmeg, few drops 
lemon extract. Rub sugar and butter together until very light ; 
as you break the eggs, put the whites in a separate dish, and 
throw the yellows, one at a time, with the sugar and butter, 
beating all the time. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and add 
to the other batter. Lastly, stir in the flour, a little at a time, 
and beat very hard. To make the above a fruit cake, add one 
pound raisins, one pound currants, one-half pound citron. 

MRS. OCTAVINE ALISON. 

Spice Cake. — Four cups flour, three cups sugar, one cup 
butter, four eggs, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, and 



76 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

two of cream tartar, one nutmeg, one teaspoon allspice and one 
of cinnamon. miss annie Armstrong. 

Spice Cake. — One cup butter, two cups sugar, four cups 
flour, six eggs, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, one teaspoon each mace and cinnamon, one scant tea- 
spoon cloves, one nutmeg. If a quick cake is desired, bake 
in a biscuit pan. mrs. w. j. webster. 

Spiced Ginger Cake. — One cup each of sugar, butter, and 
molasses, three eggs, three cups flour, one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in a cup of sour cream, one-half grated nutmeg, one 
teaspoon cloves, one tablespoon ginger. Extra good. 

MRS. W. T. USSERY. 

Pecan Cake. — One pound white sugar, seven eggs, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, one pound flour, two pounds 
pecans, two pounds raisins, one-half nutmeg, two heaping tea- 
spoons baking powder, one scant pint whisky, one-fourth pound 
citron free from syrup. mrs. j. j. Stephenson. 

English Walnut Cake. — Two cups sugar, three cups flour, 
one cup milk, three-fourths cup butter, three-fourths cup nuts 
broken fine and floured, two teaspoons baking powder (Cleve- 
land's), one teaspoon vanilla, three eggs well beaten together. 
Bake in biscuit pans, making two layers. Take whites of four 
eggs, one and a quarter pounds powdered sugar, juice of half 
a lemon and one teaspoon of vanilla, and beat all together until 
it will thread off. Spread on first layer, place second on top, 
ice, and mark in squares. Place half a nut on each square. 

MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 

Nut Cake. — Not quite one cup butter, one and a half cups 
sugar, three-fourths cup flour, three teaspoons baking powder, 
whites of four eggs, one cup English walnuts chopped fine and 
put into batter. Add spices to taste. mrs. n. r. wilkes. 

Echo Cake.— One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sour milk, two big cups flour, one teaspoon soda, one level tea- 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 77 



COLUMBIA'S 
EWELERS 



JAMES BROS, f 

DIAMONDS WATCHES 

FINE SILVERWARE CUT GLASS FANCY CHINA 

ART PICTURES, ETC. 

WATCH REPAIRING OUR SPECIALTY 

J 00 Engraved Visiting Cards Cut Flowers for Weddings, Parties, 

and Plate, $1.25 or Funerals 



spoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves a little grated nut- 
meg, one cup chopped raisins seeded, or three or four tea- 
spoons of cocoa may be used in place of spices, and you can 
use one egg or the yellow of one or two eggs in the above re- 
ceipt, but it is all right without any. mrs. nettie ruttle. 

Fig-leaf Cake. — Two cups dark brown sugar, one cup but- 
ter, one cup water, three and one-fourth cups flour, four eggs, 
one teaspoon each of cinnamon and nutmeg, one-half teaspoon 
ground cloves, two teaspoons baking powder, one-half pound 
figs cut in thin slices, two cups seedless raisins. Beat butter 
and sugar to a cream ; add eggs, spices, and flour ; then the 
flour, into which baking powder should be mixed. Dredge the 
fruit with one-fourth cup of flour. Bake in two loaves, in a 
moderate oven, for two hours. mrs. n. holman. 

Pork Cake. — One pound salt pork chopped very fine, one 
pound raisins, one pound currants, half a pound citron, one 
quart flour, one pint brown sugar, one pint boiling water, half 
a pint of New Orleans molasses, two teaspoons nutmeg, one 
teaspoon mace, two teaspoons of cloves and two of cinnamon, 
the grated rind of one lemon, one tablespoon of soda, dissolved 
in two teaspoons of boiling water. Pour the water on the pork, 
stir until melted, then pass it through the colander to avoid bits 
of fibre; add sugar, molasses, spice, and half the flour, re- 
serving a gill to rub with the fruit. This makes three large 
loaves. Put in buttered pans lined with paper ; the paper needs 



78 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



no butter. After baking the cake three-quarters of an hour, 
try it with a clean broom straw; if done, the straw will be dry 
when drawn out. mrs. james rockwell. 

Fruit Cake. — Ten eggs, whites beaten separately; one 
pound butter, one pound brown sugar, one pound flour, one- 
half pound citron, clipped fine; two pounds cleansed currants, 
two pounds seedless raisins, one pound almonds, rolled fine ; 
one cup molasses, two nutmegs, one tablespoon cloves, one 
tablespoon allspice, one level teaspoon soda, one large wine- 
glass brandy or whisky. Flour used in dredging fruit must 
not be taken from the pound. Put fruit in last, and mix well. 
Bake five and one-half hours. When done, pour over it an- 
other wine-glass of good whisky, and wrap in a cloth. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARD. 

Fruit Cake. — Cream well together one and one-half cups 
each of sugar and butter; add twelve eggs, one wine-glass each 
of wine and brandy, one teaspoon soda dissolved in a tablespoon 
of water. Steep for thirty minutes one coffee cup black mo- 
lasses into which have been stirred one tablespoon pulverized 
cinnamon, one teaspoon ground cloves, and three grated nut- 
megs ; mix with above, and add three pounds flour. Dredge 
well in flour three pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one 
pound almonds, and mix into the latter. Dredge one pound 
citron in flour; put one layer of it and one layer of batter until 
pan is almost full. Bake three or four hours with steady heat. 

MRS. PICKARD. 

Fruit Cake. — One pound browned flour, one pound but- 
ter, one pound good brown sugar, one pound currants, one 
pound citron (cut in long slender strips), one pound shelled 
almonds, one pound English walnuts, one and one-half pounds 
seeded raisins, half cup candied orange peel (cut), half cup 
candied lemon peel (cut), ten large eggs, one large spoon cinna- 
mon, one teaspoon spice, one teaspoon cloves, half teaspoon 
mace, half teaspoon nutmeg, two teaspoons baking powder, a 
glass of whisky, a glass of dark jelly. MRS. r. c. gant. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 79 

Fruit Cake. — One pound flour, one of butter, and one of 
sugar ; one dozen eggs beaten separately, two pounds raisins, 
two pounds currants, one-half pound citron, one wineglass 
brandy, two nutmegs, one tablespoon each of spice, cinnamon, 
mace, and cloves. Put the spices in the brandy. The fruit 
should be floured before adding to the batter. Put one tea- 
spoon of soda and two of cream of tartar in the flour. Bake 
six hours. Do not attempt to remove the cake frcm the pan 
until cold. mrs. weatherly. 

Fruit Cake. — One pound sugar, one pound butter, one 
pound browned flour, twelve eggs, three pounds raisins, one 
pound citron, one nutmeg, one tablespoon cinnamon, one large 
glass whisky, two tablespoons baking powder mixed in flour. 
Bake three hours. mrs. Joseph towler. 

Black Fruit Cake. — One pound flour, browned; one and 
three-fourths pounds butter, creamed; one and one-fourth 
pounds brown sugar, two pounds raisins, one pound currants, 
one pound citron, one pound blanched almonds, one pint sherry 
wine, one wineglass brandy, two nutmegs, one tablespoon 
ginger, one tablespoon pulverized mace, one tablespoon ground 
cinnamon, twelve eggs, beaten well. Flour the fruit. Bake 
in slow manner. mrs. william p. Morgan. 

Yellow Fruit Cake. — One pound butter creamed with one 
pound pulverized sugar, one dozen eggs, added one at a time 
and thoroughly beaten; two and a half pounds seeded raisins, 
one-half pound candied lemon peel, one-half pound citron, one 
pound almonds, blanched; one pound and three ounces flour, 
one nutmeg, grated. Bake one and one-half hours. 

MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 

Cocoa Cake. — One cup sugar, nearly half cup butter, yolk 
one egg, one teaspoon soda, one cup buttermilk, a pinch of 
salt, two and a half cups sifted flour, and four teaspoons cocoa 
dissolved in a little water. Bake in a square pan. Ice and 
cut in blocks. mrs. j. w. shelton. 



80 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

FILLINGS. 

White Fillings. — Three cups sugar, one cup water. Cook 
till it ropes. Have ready the whites of three eggs beaten to a 
froth. Stir the boiling candy into the eggs very slowly, then 
beat rapidly. Flavor with banana. mrs. ben cheairs. 

Filling for Sponge Cake. — Boil one and a half pints of 
milk, thicken with a tablespoon of flour made into a paste. 
Beat two eggs with two cups of sugar, and add to the boiling 
milk. Boil until thick as custard; then add one tablespoon of 
butter. Flavor with vanilla or wine to taste. Let cakes cool, 
and spread the cream while hot. mrs. r. holding. 

Caramel Filling. — Three cups of granulated sugar, one 
cup of milk, one tablespoon of butter. Let boil until thick. 
Remove from the fire, add one tablespoon of vanilla, beat until 
white and spread on the cake. mrs. w. p. morgan. 

Caramel Filling. — One-half cup sugar, browned in small 
tin pan. Add one and one-half tablespoons of boiling water, 
and stir till sugar is dissolved. Then take three cups of sugar, 
one cup of cream, lump of butter size of an egg, and one and 
one-half tablespoons of the above caramel, and put in pan on 
stove and boil, stirring all the time, adding slowly the rest of the 
caramel. Cook till thick. Take out eight or ten tablespoons 
of filling, beat until light, and spread on cake till layers are 

filled. MRS. R. HOLDING. 

Chocolate Filling. — Three cups sugar, one-half cup cream, 
one-half cup butter, one-half cup chocolate; flavor with vanilla. 
Beat this in the slightly-beaten whites of two eggs. Beat thor- 
oughly. MRS. J. e. dixon. 

Lemon Filling. — One lemon grated rind and juice, one cup 
water, one cup sugar, two tablespoons corn starch, one table- 
spoon butter. Let sugar, water, and butter come to a good 
boil, then add the corn starch dissolved in a little water, the 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 81 

lemon rind and juice. Stir all the time until it is thick and 
clear. When partly cool spread between layers. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Fruit Filling. — Dissolve three cups sugar in one of water. 
Boil without stirring until it hardens when dropped into water. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, then pour over 
them the boiling syrup, beating constantly. Take out one-half 
of the icing, and add pineapple, cocoanut, or banana, and 
spread between layers of the cake; then ice the cake with the 
plain icing. This never fails if the ingredients are good. 

MRS. JOHN W. FRY. 

Fruit Filling. — Three cups sugar, one cup water. Boil 
until it ropes. Have ready the whites of three eggs, and pour 
the boiling candy into the eggs. One pound raisins, one pound 
almonds, and one-half pound of citron. MRS. ben cheairs. 

Chocolate Filling. — Three cups sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup sweet milk, enough chocolate to produce a pretty color. 
Let cook to the consistency of candy ; then pour over the half- 
beaten whites of two eggs, beating all the while. Spread be- 
tween layers of cake. mrs. h. a. m'lemore. 

Chocolate Filling. — One-half pint milk, three cups sugar, 
three tablespoons butter, one-half cake chocolate. Melt over 
boiling water. Flavor with vanilla. mrs. ben cheairs. 

Raisin Smash. — Into boiling icing put one pound seedless 
raisins, one-half pound blanched almonds, halved. Spread be- 
tween layers. mrs. j. w. shelton. 

Filling for Cake. — One cup raisins and one cup of figs 
cooked until done, then add any desired fruit, and beat in icing. 

MRS. KATE COLEMAN. 

Prauline Icing. — Two cups sugar, three-fourths cups maple 
syrup, enough cream to wet thoroughly, adding when it boils a 
little butter. When done stir in a teaspoon of vanilla and 
broken pecan kernels. Spread on cake, reserving whole pecans 

for top. MRS. FRANK EVERETT. 



82 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Filling. — Juice of two lemons, two cups sugar, two 
eggs, one cup boiling water. Mix sugar, eggs, and lemon, 
pour over it the boiling water ; boil to a jelly, about twenty 
minutes. mrs. j. k. orr. 

Prauline Cake. — Make a plain white cake; cook in a shal- 
low square or round pan. Make a prauline icing and spread 
between layers. 

Prauline Icing. — Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup of maple 
syrup, and enough cream to moisten thoroughly; add when it 
boils a little piece of butter; when it thickens, stir in a teaspoon 
of vanilla and broken pecan kernels. mrs. a. samuels. 



TEA CAKES. 

Tea Cakes. — One cup butter, two cups sugar, four cups 
flour, half cup milk, five eggs, two slightly heaped teaspoons 
baking powder mixed with the flour, a teaspoon of extract of 
lemon. Cream butter and sugar, and beat the eggs light. 
Have pans well greased, and flour well. Drop a teaspoon of 
the batter, in round lumps, in the pans, with plenty of room 
for them to spread. Bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. R. C. GANT. 

Tea Cakes {very rare). — Cream one pound of eating butter 
with three-fourths of a cup of powdered sugar. Cream the 
yolks of six hard-boiled eggs with one raw one to paste ; add to 
butter and sugar. Add one and one-half pounds flour, well 
sifted, and two teaspoons baking powder, then one-half cup 
milk. Cut with biscuit cutter and sprinkle with sugar. Bake 
in hot oven. miss Henrietta lazarus. 

Tea Cakes. — One cup sugar, two eggs, three-fourths cup of 
butter, two teaspoons pulverized hartshorn dissolved in two 
tablespoons warm water. Cream butter and sugar ; add eggs 
beaten very light, then the water, and enough flour to make a 
soft dough. Flavor. Roll very thin. mrs. f. d. lander. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



sscfolccbtc @0&a toerbirbt bas 
befte WlelyL 

9ictnc @oba— irie bcfk 8oim fommt nur 
in ^afeten 

ttrit ber £anbelmarfe: Qlrm tint) §ommcr. 

@ie foftet ntdjt mefyr afg ein ^afet gertnger 

@oba — uerbirbt menials baes 2ttel)l — 

fyatt e8 immer nmd). 93?an fyiite ftd) 

Dor s J?ad)ab,mungen toon £anbels= 

marten unb (Sttquetten unb ne^mc 

nitr s 4>afete auf njeldjcm bic 

orte ftetjen— 




gn toerfaufett Bet attett 8peceretettf)attblenu 



2Jianfd>n.'ibeutt< efn wcrtfcoolled 21 rm unb jammer 9icjcptenbitd)— frd. 



Premium Tea Cakes. — Five eggs beaten separately, heap- 
ing pint sugar, half pint melted lard and butter, four teaspoons 
cream tartar, two of soda, enough flour to make a dough so you 
can roll out. Cream eggs and sugar together. Flavor to taste. 

MRS. C. T. LOONEY. 

Tea Cakes. — Five cups flour, one and one-half cups sugar, 
one cup butter, three eggs beaten separately, two level tea- 
spoons powdered Baker's ammonia, dissolved in one-fourth cup 
warm water. Flavor to taste. Roll quite thin, and bake care- 
fully. MRS. W. P. WOLDRIDGE. 

Sugar Cakes. — Three eggs beaten separately, two cups 
sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one cup buttermilk, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in the milk, and flour enough to make a 
soft dough. Flavor to taste. Roll in sugar. 

MRS. WEATHERLY. 



84 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Sweet Cakes. — One heavy pint sugar, pint cup three parts 
full melted butter, five eggs, work flour enough to make a soft 
dough, three teaspoons cream tartar, one and one-half teaspoons 

SOda. MRS. A. H. SMITH. 

Muster Cakes. — One pint molasses, one large tablespoon 
butter, two eggs, two large tablespoons race ginger, a table- 
spoon soda dissolved in vinegar, flour enough to make a soft 
dough. Cut into squares and bake brown. 

MRS. ALEX. MORGAN. 

Cookies. — Cream until very light two cups sugar, one cup 
butter, and four eggs thoroughly beaten ; add two heaping tea- 
spoons baking powder sifted into four cups flour which have 
been sifted several times; flavor with lemon. Press into the 
center of each cake a large raisin, nut, or piece of citron. 
Brush with beaten white of egg, and sprinkle with confectioners' 

SUgar. MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Nut Cookies. — Cream one cup granulated sugar and one- 
third pound butter; add three eggs, two cups flour, in which 
one teaspoon baking powder has been sifted. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla, and add one cup hickory nut or pecan ker- 
nels. Drop with a spoon a small quantity upon buttered tins, 
and bake in a quick oven. miss Henrietta lazarus. 

Cocoanut Tea Cakes. — Beat together one-half pound sugar, 
one-fourth pound butter, three eggs, one heaping teaspoon 
baking powder, and a grated cocoanut. Add flour enough to 
make a soft dough. mrs. o. p. rutledge. 

Sponge Drops. — Beat to a froth three eggs and one teacup 
sugar; stir into this one heaping coffeecup of flour, in which 
one teaspoon cream tartar and one-half teaspoon saleratus have 
been sifted; flavor with lemon. Grease tins well, and drop a 
tablespoon of batter into each mold. Bake in a quick oven. 
Serve with ice cream. mrs. w. m. jones. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 85 

Ginger Snaps. — One egg, one-half cup butter or large spoon 
lard, one-half cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one-fourth 
cup sour milk with one teaspoon soda (beat this until molasses 
looks light), two cups flour into which has been sifted two 
tablespoons ginger, cream, butter, sugar, and eggs ; add mo- 
lasses and flour to make a stiff dough. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Ginger Snaps. — One cup each butter, sugar, and molasses 
melted together; one well-beaten egg, one tablespoon pulverized 
ginger, a scant teaspoon spice, a dash of black pepper, one tea- 
spoon soda in a little buttermilk, or the dry flour, which should 
be enough to make a stiff dough. Roll very thin and bake 
quickly. mrs. h. p. figuers. 

Ginger Snaps. — One and one-half teacups syrup; let boil 
ten minutes; one tablespoon lard, one-half teaspoon soda, one 
tablespoon ginger; add flour and roll very thin. 

MRS. HORACE RAINEY. 

Doughnuts. — One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one and 
one-half pints flour, one and one-half teaspoons baking pow- 
der, one egg, three-fourths cup milk, one teaspoon lemon ex- 
tract. Cream together sugar, butter, and egg, then add flour, 
baking powder, and milk. They fry best when cut out with a 
hole in center. Sprinkle with sugar as soon as taken from the 
hot lard. mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Doughnuts. — One teacup of flour, two teacups of sugar, one 
teacup of sweet milk, three eggs, one tablespoon of butter, one- 
half of a nutmeg, three teaspoons of baking powder, one heap- 
ing tablespoon of ground cinnamon. Add a small quantity of 
flour at a time ; save enough to use in rolling. Roll till one- 
eighth of an inch in thickness, and use a small and large cut- 
ter to make ring. Fry in a good quantity of hot lard. 

MRS. J. P. HERNDON. 



86 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Old Fashion Sweet Wafers. — One-half cup of butter, one 
heaping cup of sugar, two level cups of flour, and five eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately. Bake in wafer irons well 
greased, a«nd roll while hot. Flavor with vanilla or lemon 

juice. MRS. W. P. MORGAN. 

Banbury Tarts. — One cup sugar, one cup raisins chopped 
fine, one cracker rolled fine, juice and rind of one lemon, one 
egg beaten. Drop on buttered tins and bake in quick oven. 

MRS. S. T. MAXWELL. 

Love Diet. — One egg well beaten, one teacup of sweet 
cream, and a pinch of salt. Work into this mixture enough 
flour to make as stiff as dough for beaten biscuit. Then roll as 
thin as possible ; cut out with a biscuit cutter and roll again 
until as thin as tissue paper; then put into boiling lard, turn 
over, and take out. Have pulverized sugar ready to sift on the 
flakes as they are piled on a plate. Serve cold. 

MRS. J. D. BARROW. 

Bell Fritters. — Put a cup of water into a saucepan ; when 
it boils, add one tablespoon butter; when butter is melted, add 
one cup flour and beat with a fork; whip until smooth and 
leaves the sides of the pan. Remove from the fire and add 
three eggs, one at a time, beating vigorously each one. Before 
adding the next, let it stand until cold. When ready to serve, 
drop a spoonful at a time in hot lard or butter. Fry amber 
brown. Take out with a skimmer. Sprinkle with pulverized 
sugar. Serve with lemon sauce. mrs. a. samuels. 

Egg Kisses. — Beat the whites of seven eggs for twenty min- 
utes, then beat in one-half pound of granulated sugar for an- 
other twenty minutes, very hard, then beat in half pound sugar 
again. Vanilla flavor. Drop on plain paper, not greased. 
Bake in slow oven. mrs. a. samuels. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 87 



PASTRY. 

Good Pastry. — The secret of success in making nice pastry 
is to work quickly and lightly in a cool room, using ice-cold 
water, or milk and ice water mixed. 

"Aunt Martha's" Pastry (fine). — Into one pint of flour 
sift one teaspoon of baking powder; add a heaping tablespoon 
of lard, and mix thoroughly with a knife. Use ice-cold water 
sufficient to mix. 

Pie Crust. — Six large spoons flour, one large spoon lard, 
one-half teaspoon salt, cold water enough to make stick to- 
gether. Rub the lard well into the flour. 

MRS. FANNIE CATES. 

Pastry. — One cup shortening lard and butter mixed, three 
cups flour and a little salt. Use enough ice water to hold all 
together, handling as little as possible. Roll one side only, and 
rub from you. mrs. c. w. bradshaw. 

Real Puff Paste. — One pound of butter, one pound of 
flour; wash the salt out of the butter; mix the flour with a little 
ice water and salt; roll out and spread with a part of the but- 
ter; turn together and roll again; continue to do this until all 
the butter is used. Keep cold while making. 

MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 

Lemon Pies. — Two tablespoons butter, two teacups sugar 
creamed together ; six eggs beaten together, and when light mix 
and add juice of two lemons; spread on very thick pastry and 
bake, and when brown add meringue. Whites of four eggs, 
one cup sugar, fresh lemon juice. mrs. Joseph towler. 

Lemon Pie. — Yolks of six eggs, two cups sugar, one of milk, 
one tablespoon flour, same of meal. Grate rind and juice of 
two lemons and add last. Use whites of eggs for frosting on 

top Of pies. MRS. MEEK. 



88 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



Jlsbton mills ** flsbton's Best 

?^S T T Y A^| S D I IS THE BEST 

ai?^"srJ?5Kf; JMWoti'i Best ? lour 

USE BOTH a e lttHM ddaQ COLUMBIA, 

PHONES AdtilUJN tfKUd. TENN. 



Lemon Pie. — Pastry. — One cup flour (measuring cup), one- 
fourth cup lard or butter, one-fourth cup cold water, little salt, 
bake slightly first. 

Filling. — Three eggs, two-thirds cup sugar, one-fourth cup 
lemon juice, one-half grated lemon rind; add juice and sugar 
alternately; cook long enough to set the eggs. 

Meringue. — Whites of three eggs, four tablespoons powdered 
sugar, one-half tablespoon lemon juice. Fold in three and one- 
half more tablespoons sugar and put on hot pie. Bake light 
brown. mrs. s. t. maxwell. 

Lemon Pies. — One lemon, one tablespoon of butter, five 
heaping tablespoons of sugar, and two eggs. Beat the yolks, 
sugar, butter, and juice of lemon to a cream; then add the 
frothed whites. mrs. o. p. rutled.ge. 

Lemon Custard. — Cream two cups sugar and one table- 
spoon butter; add four eggs, beaten separately; two tablespoons 
water, juice and grated rind of two lemons. Line pie plates 
with pastry, bake just a little, then pour in custard, and bake a 
light brown. mrs. William J. webster. 

Lemon Custard. — One cup hot water, one cup sugar, let it 
come to a boil; then add one tablespoon of corn starch dis- 
solved in a little cold water and the yellows of two or three 
eggs ; stir until it thickens, then set off and add piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, a little salt, and the juice and grated rind 
of one lemon. Use whites for meringue to put on top of cus- 
tard. This makes one custard. mrs. nettie ruttle. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 89 

Chocolate Pies. — Make same as caramel, only leave out 
caramel and put in nearly two squares of Baker's chocolate ; 
melt and stir it in the eggs and sugar; it mixes best in this way. 
Flavor with vanilla or cinnamon. miss annie walker. 

Chocolate Pie. — Boil together one cup cream, one-half 

cup sugar, a little block of chocolate. Pour this over three 

eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, well beaten together. 

Bake in an under crust only. MRS. A. c. floyd. 

Chess Cake.— Three eggs, three-fourths cup butter, two 
cups sugar, one-half cup flour, one cup sweet milk. Put on 
stove and cook until it thickens, stirring all the time, to prevent 
lumping. Take off, and when it cools add the juice of one 
fresh lemon. Then spread on crusts and bake nearly done; 
take out and spread evenly on the meringue made of the whites 
of eggs and one-half cup sugar. Return to stove and bake a 
light brown. mrs. t. n. figuers. 

Sweet Potato Pie. — Five eggs (take out the whites of two), 
one pint sugar, four tablespoons melted butter, one-half cup 
Madeira wine, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste; thicken with 
mashed potatoes. Use the two whites for meringue. 

MRS. F. H. SMITH. 

Sweet Potato Pie. — One pint mashed sweet potato, one 
cup sweet milk, one cup butter, one cup sugar, four eggs, one 
nutmeg. Pour the mixture into a pan lined with pastry, and 
bake. mrs. s. w. warfield. 

Apple Pie. — Grate six good-sized apples and two lemons, 
using only yellow part and juice of lemons. Stir this into one- 
half cup of butter and two cups of sugar creamed together. 
Add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, one-half cup rich 
milk. Then stir in lightly the beaten whites of four eggs; use 
nutmeg if you like. Bake in paste with strips across top. 

MRS. ROBERT CHURCH. 



90 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Apple Pie. — Five grated apples, two lemons, four eggs 
beaten separately, one-half cup butter creamed with two cups 
sugar, one-half cup sweet milk. Eggs added last. 

MRS. FANNIE CATES. 

Apple Fritters. — One egg, one small cup flour, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, one-third cup milk, one-half teaspoon 
salt, four teaspoons sugar, one heaping teaspoon butter, one 
pint sliced sour apples. Drop from the spoon and fry a light- 
brown. MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Sharkey Pie. — Yolks of four eggs, one cup sugar, one-half 
cup butter, one cup jam or preserves without syrup, one nutmeg 
and one wine-glass of wine. Bake in nice pastry, and use the 
whites of eggs for meringue. mrs. j. w. shelton. 

Molasses Pie. — One pint of molasses stewed almost to 
candy; add even teaspoon of soda, one cup sugar, four eggs 
beaten separately, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk with 
one tablespoon flour. Whites of eggs go in last. Nutmeg or cin- 
namon. MRS J. K. ORR. 

Molasses Custard. — One cup of molasses, one cup sugar, 
yolks of four eggs, butter the size of walnut. Beat well and add 
a cup of sweet milk and a pinch of soda. Use spice, nutmeg, 
or vanilla for flavoring. Bake in crusts. Whip whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, and add three tablespoons of sugar. Spread 
over tops of custards, and return them to the oven to brown. 
This quantity will make two custards, mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Molasses Pie. — For one custard, take one cup of molasses, 
one-fourth cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, one egg, and one table- 
spoon butter. Beat the mixture until the butter melts. Flavor 
as desired. miss annie looney. 

Buttermilk Pie. — Two eggs, two cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one pint fresh buttermilk, three tablespoons flour; flavor 
with lemon. Bake in two crusts. mrs. stuart Fleming. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 91 

Caramel Custard. — One quart milk, one cup sugar, three 
eggs, one large tablespoon of corn starch. Put one-half the 
sugar in a pan, and make a dark-brown syrup; then pour in a 
quart of heated milk. When caramel is thoroughly dissolved 
in milk, add the rest of the sugar well beaten in the yolks of 
the three eggs and the corn starch. Boil till thick. Place on 
top the whites of eggs well beaten ; add three tablespoons of 
sugar and vanilla flavoring. It can be cooled and slipped on 
fancy dish and put on ice till cold. mes. stuart Fleming. 

Caramel Pies. — Yolks of four eggs, one cup sugar, three 
heaping teaspoons sifted flour, pint milk, four tablespoons cara- 
mel, half teaspoon vanilla extract. Bake in a good rich crust. 
Make a meringue of the whites and one-third of a cup of sugar 
and brown quickly. Will make two pies. 

MISS ANNIE WALKER. 

Tyler Custard. — Six eggs, two cups sugar, one cup sour 
cream, one cup butter. Flavor with vanilla. Put the ingre- 
dients in- a pan, set on the stove, and stir until thoroughly 
mixed before putting it in pastry. Meringue can be made of 
the whites of the four eggs. MRS. coleman. 

Strawberry Shortcake. — Into one quart of flour put two 
heaping teaspoons of baking powder, two tablespoons of sugar, 
and a little salt. When sifted add two tablespoons of butter 
and lard, and enough sweet milk or water to make a soft dough. 
(The secret of having light pastry is to handle as little and mix 
as quickly as possible). Roll almost as thin as pie crust, place 
one layer in baking pan spread with a little melted butter, then 
sprinkle flour over it ; add another layer and spread as before. 
This makes four layers each for two small pans, or one large 
pan. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes in quick oven, turn out 
upside down, take off layers, place on dish, and spread the 
sweetened strawberries plentifully between. To be served 
warm with the following sauce : Whites of two eggs beaten 
into one cup of pulverized sugar and one cup of cream. Flavor 
to taste. mrs. w. b. harrison. 



92 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



GEO. R. CALHOUN & CO. ?HKI 

THE JEWELERS 

headquarters for DIAMONDS AND FINE WATCHES 

SOLID SILVERWARE 



Mince Meat. — Five pounds minced meat, five pounds beef 
suet, two pounds citron, two pounds raisins seeded, one pound 
currants, the juice and grated rind of eight oranges, one dozen 
apples, one tablespoon each of powdered cinnamon, cloves, 
and mace; add allspice if you like, three drops of oil of bitter 
almond, and sugar to taste. Moisten sufficiently with brandy 
and wine in this proportion : One pint of bandy to one quart 
of wine. mrs. f. h. smith. 

Mince Meat. — Six pounds raisins, three pounds currants, 
six pounds apples chopped fine; three pounds suet, two table- 
spoons powdered cinnamon, four lemons, ten pound ssugar, one 
pound citron, three tongues, three pints brandy, four pints wine. 
This makes a considerable quantity. mrs. alex. morgan. 

Mince Meat. — Boil heart and tongue (fresh) of the beef 
until perfectly tender. When cool chop very fine, and salt to 
taste. Chop nice, juicy apples very fine (do not peel them), 
and add to the meat one teacup of chopped beef suet and one 
pint molasses. Cook until it boils ; then add one pint best vine- 
gar, two quarts best cider or home-made wine, two pounds 
seeded raisins, one pound currants, sugar enough to taste, one 
tablespoon each of cinnamon, cloves, and allspice ; add citron 
if liked. Cook all together one-half hour. When cool add 
one tablespoon each of vanilla and lemon, and one pint of apple 
brandy. Seal in glass jars. This will keep for years. 

MRS. dexter. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



Mince Meat. — Four pounds of tender beef well done, three 
pounds of suet, eight pounds chopped apple, three pounds cur- 
rants, three pounds seeded raisins, six pounds brown sugar, 
two pounds citron, the grated yellow rind, juice, and pulp of 
two large oranges, the grated yellow rind and juice of four 
lemons, one ounce cinnamon, one-quarter ounce each of cloves, 
mace, and allspice, four nutmegs grated, one quart of Madeira 
wine, one pint good brandy, one cup each of strawberry, rasp- 
berry, and quince preserves. Chop the suet and beef very 
fine, and mix with plenty of salt to remove fresh taste. To this 
add the apples, sugar, and fruit, lastly the liquor in which the 
spices have been steeped. When ready to use, more liquor may 
be added, to taste. mrs. c. w. bradshaw. 

Cream Pie. — One cup milk, yolks three eggs, six level table- 
spoons sugar, pinch of salt, two tablespoons flour dissolved in 
milk; flavor with vanilla. When this is cooked and cool, pour 
into a baked crust and cover with a meringue made of whites, 
and brown in oven. mrs. nettle ruttle. 

Raisin Pie. — One pound seeded raisins boiled for an hour 
in one quart water. Add more water if it boils away too much. 
When cold add one cup sugar, one tablespoon flour, one egg 
well beaten, juice and grated rind of one lemon, a little salt. 
This makes two large pies and one small one. If eggs are 
scarce, you can use two rolled crackers, two tablespoons of 
flour in place of the egg and flour. mrs. nettie ruttle. 

Chocolate Custard. — Four eggs, two cups sugar, one-half 
cup butter, one-half cup milk, teaspoon lemon extract, two table- 
spoons corn starch, put in saucepan and cook until done. Then 
add well-beaten yolks of eggs, beating all the time to keep from 
lumping. Pour mixture into pastry and cover with meringue 
made of whites of eggs. mrs. j. p. street. 

Chocolate Custard. — One-half cake of chocolate, one and 
a half cups sugar, one heaping tablespoon butter, one and a 
half cups sweet milk. Cook all together very little (not like 



94. COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

candy). When cool add the yolks of four eggs well beaten. 
Bake on a rich pastry. Make meringue of whites of six eggs, 
one-half cup sugar, and two teaspoons vanilla. When custards 
are done and nearly cool, spread on meringue, and bake alight- 
brown. Always grease pastry pans a little, so as to remove 
custards without breaking. mrs. f. b. webb. 

Cocoanut Custard. — One grated cocoanut, two cups sugar, 
one cup milk, six eggs beaten well. Cream well, sugar, eggs, 
and milk; add cocoanut last. Bake with under crust slightly 
browned. mrs. j. k. orr. 



PUDDINGS. 

Fruit Pudding. — One glass of English walnuts, one glass 
of dates, two eggs beaten together, one-half cup of sugar, one 
tablespoon flour, one teaspoon baking powder. Chop walnuts 
and dates, sprinkle a little flour on dates ; mix dates and nuts. 
Beat eggs well; add sugar; beat well; add nuts and dates, 
baking powder in flour, and mix in with eggs, etc. Bake in jelly 
pans. Put paper in bottom of pan, and something under pan 
to prevent burning. Bake half an hour. Break in pieces and 
serve cold with cream. mrs. w. s. Fleming. 

Queen of Puddings. — One pint of grated bread crumbs, 
one quart of sweet milk, yolks of four eggs, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg (grated rind of lemon maybe added). Bake 
until done, but do not allow it to become watery, and spread 
with a layer of jelly. Whip whites of the four eggs to a stiff 
froth ; add five tablespoons of sugar and juice of one lemon ; 
spread on top and brown lightly. Make a hard sauce as fol- 
lows: One cup of very light-brown sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, grated rind and juice of one lemon. Beat very light. 
Vanilla maybe used instead of lemon. mrs. j. h. wilkes. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 95 



Plum Pudding. — Cream together one pound sugar and 
three-fourths pound of butter, add yolks of ten eggs, alternate 
by adding well-beaten whites and one pound flour; then add 
one teaspoon each of ground cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nut- 
meg. Dredge in flour one pound raisins, one pound currants, 
one-half pound citron ; add to batter and stir well ; then add 
one quart sweet milk. Take a square of good domestic, dip 
in boiling water and wring ; spread on pastry board, and rub 
thoroughly with flour; lower the cloth in a bucket, pour in bat- 
ter, gather up all the ends, tie securely, leaving space for pud- 
ding to rise. Place an old plate in the bottom of a kettle of 
boiling water, put in the puddiug, boil slowly for four hours, 
turning over occasionally. When done set aside in the pot till 
ready to serve; then dip in cold water and remove the cloth. 
Serve with sauce. One-half of this qantity is sufficient for ten 
persons. mrs. william j. webster. 

Plum Pudding.— Four eggs beaten well but not separately, 
two large cups seeded raisins, a few currants, one cup bread 
crumbs, one cup chopped citron, one cup pecans, two large 
apples chopped, sugar, spice, and brandy to taste. Steam four 
hours or a little longer. Make a sauce of butter, sugar, and 
brandy, mixing brandy and sugar into butter, little by little. 

MISS ANNIE ARMSTRONG. 

Plum Pudding.— One full spoon of soda in one cup of sour 
milk, one cup of sugar, three cups of flour, one cup of beef 
suet chopped fine, one and a half cups of seeded raisins (one 
spoon of flour to suet and raisins before mixing). Put in small 
bucket with lid, set in kettle of water, and let boil three hours. 

MRS. D. C. PHELAN. 

Jeff Davis Pudding. — Three teacups of sweet milk, two 
of sugar, yolks of five eggs, one tablespoon of butter, and five 
of flour. Bake a delicate brown, and then put a meringue of the 
whites of the five eggs, and five tablespoons of sugar. Flavor 
with vanilla. miss sallie looney. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



WE SELL 

Columbus Surries 
Columbus Phaetons 
Columbus Buggies 



SATTERFIELD & DODSON 



Delmonico Pudding. — One quart of sweet milk, put on the 
stove in a pan, one cup of sugar dissolved in the milk, yolks of 
three eggs, three tablepoons corn starch dissolved in milk. Stir 
until it thickens. Beat the whites of the eggs; add one table- 
spoon sugar; spread this over the pudding. Put in stove and 
brown lightly. mrs. weatherly. 

Delmonico Pudding. — One quart milk, two tablespoons 
corn starch dissolved in a little cold milk, yolks of five eggs 
beaten well, six tablespoons of sugar. Boil for five minutes, 
then set in water, and bake. Beat the five whites with one cup 
of sugar, flavor with lemon, spread on pudding, return to oven, 
and brown. mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Soak three heaping tablespoons of tapi- 
oca over night. Let one quart of sweet milk come to a boil, 
stir the tapioca into it, and let cook till it thickens. Beat the 
yolks of four eggs with one cup of sugar and a little flour. Stir 
this into tapioca and milk, and let thicken. Pour into baking 
pan. Beat whites of eggs to stiff froth, sweeten, spread over 
top of pudding and put in stove to brown. 

MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Soak three large tablespoons of tapioca 
in a pint of cold water for one hour, drain off the water and 
stir the tapioca into one quart of boiling milk ; let boil for ten 
minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs with a cup of sugar and 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 97 

three tablespoons of grated cocoanut ; add this mixture to the 
milk, and let all boil for five minutes. Have ready the whites 
of the four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with two tablespoons 
of sugar gradually added ; heap this over the top of the pudding, 
sprinkle with grated cocoanut, and set in the stove to bake for 
ten minutes. mrs. john trotwood moore. 

Snow Pudding. — One-half box gelatine dissolved in one- 
half pint warm water; add one and a half cups sugar and juice 
of one lemon. Strain it. When cold add the well-beaten 
whites of four eggs. Beat all together till stiff enough to mould. 
Make a custard of one pint of milk, yolks of eggs, and four 
tablespoons of sugar. Flavor to taste. 

MRS. JOE BROWNLOW. 

Steamed Pudding. — Two cups sugar, one cup butter, four 
cups flour, one cup sweet milk, three eggs beaten separately, 
one large teaspoon baking powder (sift with flour), one pound 
seeded raisins. Steam till done. Then set in stove a few min- 
utes. Turn out on plate, and serve with butter and sugar 
sauce. mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Light Boiled Pudding. — Cream one cup sugar and butter 
the size of a walnut; add three eggs beaten separately; crumbs 
of one loaf of bread, over which has been poured one pint hot 
milk and water; then add a handful of raisins; boil twenty 
minutes, following same directions as for plum pudding. Serve 
with sugar sauce. mrs. william J. webster. 

Woodford Pudding. — Two cups of sugar, three of flour, 
one of butter, one of sweet milk, three eggs, two teaspoons of 
yeast powder, small cup of jam or preserves, citron, raisins, and 
spices to taste. mrs. j. m. ma yes. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. — Peel and grate one potato, me- 
dium size; add to this two large cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
melted butter, three eggs (well beaten), two teaspoons pow- 
dered spice, and four cups fresh milk. Bake in moderate 
oven. mrs. J. w. shelton. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



Muffin Rings Ginger Pudding. — Two eggs, one-half cup 
sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup butter or lard, one- 
half cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one of ginger, one half of cloves, one-half of soda. 
A cup of raisins and a half of citron makes this much nicer, but 
they are very nice without. This is to be eaten with hard 
sauce. mrs. h. g. evans. 

Chocolate Pudding. — One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
one tablespoon butter, two squares chocolate. Cook until 
nearly candy, take off of fire, and when just milk warm add 
yolks of four eggs beaten very light. Bake on rich pastry, and 
when nearly brown add meringue of whites of four eggs, one cup 
sugar, one teaspoon vanilla. mrs. Joseph towler. 

Chocolate Pudding. — After one quart of sweet milk has 
come to a boil, add two large tablespoons of corn starch (dis- 
solved in a little cold water), four tablespoons grated choco- 
late, and one teacup of sugar. Boil till it thickens, turn into a 
mould, and set on ice. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened 
and flavored with vanilla. mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Chocolate Pudding. — Boil one pint milk and add one-half 
cup butter, one cup sugar, and three tablespoons chocolate. 
Pour this over three slices of bread which have been soaked in 
water. When cool add well-beaten yolks of four eggs and one 
teaspoon of vanilla, and bake. When done drop meringue 
(made of the whites of eggs and four tablespoons of sugar) in 
little mounds over it, and brown. mrs. j. w. shelton. 

Nesselrode Pudding. — One pint of shelled almonds, one 
pint and a half of shelled chestnuts, one pint of cream, a pint 
can of pineapples, the yolks of ten eggs, half a pound of French 
candied fruit, one tablespoon of vanilla extract, four of wine, 
one pint of water, one of sugar. Boil the chestnuts half an 
hour, then rub off the black skins, and pound in the mortar 
until a paste. Blanch the almonds, and pound in the same 

3V* 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 99 

manner. Boil the sugar, water, and juice from the pineapple 
for twenty minutes in a saucepan. Beat the yolks of the eggs, 
and stir them into the syrup. Put the saucepan into another 
of boiling water, and beat the mixture with an egg-beater until 
it thickens. Take off, place in a basin of cold water, and beat 
for ten minutes. Mix the almonds and chestnuts with the 
cream, and rub all through a sieve. Add the candied fruit and 
pineapple, cut fine. Mix this with the cooked mixture, add the 
flavor and a half teaspoon of salt. Freeze the same as ice 
cream. mrs. william p. morgan. 

Fruit Pudding. — Three cups flour, two cups raisins, cur- 
rants, or any kind of fruit, one cup molasses, one cup sweet 
milk, one cup suet chopped fine, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon cloves, two teaspoons 
cinnamon. Bake as you would a cake, and steam when used. 
It will keep as a fruit cake. Serve with rich sauce. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Fruit 'Pudding. — Two cups flour, two cups sugar, two eggs, 
two cups strawberry preserves or prunes, one cup butter, one 
cup buttermilk with one teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon each 
vanilla and lemon extract; spices to taste. Sugar and butter 
sauce. • mrs. robert pillow. 

Raisin Pudding. — One pound raisins, one-half pound but- 
ter, one pound flour, seven eggs beaten separately, one pint 
milk or cream, one wine-glass of brandy. Flour the mould or 
bag, butter well. Boil three or four hours. Serve with rich 
sauce. mrs. c. a. forgey. 

Fig Pudding. — Three and three-fourths cups of flour, one 
cup milk, one cup molasses, one cup chopped suet, two eggs, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
nutmeg, one-half pint figs, one-half pint raisins. Mix together 
molasses, suet, spices, and the figs and raisins cut fine. Dis- 
solve soda in teaspoon of hot water and mix with milk, then 




100 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

HARLAN & SON 

COLUMBIA, TENN. 

LIVERY, SALE AND FEED STABLES 

FIRST CLASS LIVERY OF ALL KINDS 
CITIZENS' telephone No. 2 TERMS STRICTLY CASH 

BELL TELEPHONE NO. 176 

add to the other ingredients. Beat eggs light; stir in, add flour 
and beat thoroughly. Turn mixture into mould and steam five 

hours. MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Prune Souffle. — One pound of prunes stoned in a little 
hot water; press through a colander; add one teacup of sugar, 
one large teaspoon of yeast powder, whites of six eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth. Add to prunes and bake quickly. Serve with 
whipped cream. A delicious dessert, mrs. w. s. Fleming. 

Jelly Pudding. — Four eggs beaten separately, two cups 
sugar, one of butter, one of cream, and one of jelly; two table- 
spoons of vanilla. Mix well the yolks and sugar, add to it the 
butter creamed and the cup of cream, then the jelly, last the 
vanilla and the whites well whipped. mrs. j. m. ma yes. 

Sponge Roll. — To six eggs broken together add two and 
one-half cups of sugar; beat fifteen minutes. Add one cup 
sweet milk and one teaspoon of vanilla extract. Lastly, beat in 
lightly four cups of flour into which has been sifted thoroughly 
one heaping teaspoon baking powder. Grease two biscuit pans 
and dust with flour, pour in batter and bake in a quick oven. 
When done turn out on a damp napkin, spread with jelly 
quickly, and roll. mrs. john w. Cecil. 

Sponge Roll or Cake. — Four yolks and five whites, one 
cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, one tablespoon water, 
one teaspoon yeast powder put into the flour. Beat the yolks 
and sugar together. mrs. Alice hughes smith. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 101 

Sponge Roll. — Four eggs beaten together, one teacup 
sugar, one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon cream tartar 
sifted in the flour, one-half teaspoon soda in half cup butter- 
milk. Bake quickly in biscuit pan, turn out on a damp towel, 
spread with jelly or any dressing; roll while hot and serve with 
sauce. mrs. weatherly. 

"John's Delight" (a rich and delicious pudding, easily pre- 
pared). — Mix two cups bread crumbs, one-half cup chopped 
suet, one-half cup molasses, one cup raisins, one cup sweet 
milk in which has been dissolved one-half teaspoon soda, one- 
half teaspoon pulverized cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, a 
pinch of mace and salt. Boil constantly for two hours in 
rapidly boiling water in a heated pudding double boiler, and 
serve with wine sauce or whipped cream. 

MRS. J. P. STREET. 

Cottage Pudding. — One cup supar, one cup milk, two 
eggs, one pint sifted flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, one tea- 
spoon soda, pinch of salt, butter size of an egg. This makes 
a pudding large enough for eight or ten persons. 

MRS. NETTIE RUTTLE. 

Prune Pudding. — Boil until tender one pound prunes. 
Then seed and mash to a pulp. Beat the whites of ten eggs 
to a stiff froth, then beat in a cup of sugar, and stir in the 
prunes. Bake in a buttered dish placed in a pan of hot water 
while in the oven. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened, and 
flavored with vanilla. mrs. w. b. dobbins 

Nesselrode Pudding. — Beat up yolks of four eggs, half 
pound sugar, and one ounce powdered sweet almonds ; add to it 
a quart of milk and cream mixed. Boil until thick, remove from 
fire, and when cold freeze. When frozen, remove dasher and 
stir in one ounce cherries, one ounce currants, and one pound 
preserved peaches. Mix well and let stand for two hours. 

MRS. J. P. STREET. 



102 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Sponge Pudding. — One-fourth cup sugar, one-half cup flour, 
one pint milk, boiled; one-fourth cup butter, yolks of five eggs, 
whites of five eggs. Mix the sugar and flour, wet with a little 
cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Cook until it thick- 
ens and is smooth ; add the butter, and when well mixed stir 
it into the well-beaten yolks of the eggs ; then add the whites, 
beaten stiff. Bake in a dish or pan in a pan of hot water while 
in the oven. Serve with creamy sauce. 

MRS. W. B. DOBBINS. 

Creamy Sauce. — One-fourth cup butter, one-half cup sugar, 
two tablespoons wine, two tablespoons cream. Cream the but- 
ter; add the sugar slowly, then the wine and cream. Beat 
well, and just before serving place the bowl over hot water 
and stir till smooth and creamy, but not enough to melt the 
butter. mrs. w. b. dobbins. 



SWEET SAUCES. 

Sauce for Pudding. — Whites of three eggs, large cup of 
sugar, one large tablespoon of butter. Beat eggs to stiff froth, 
add sugar and butter. Steam until it begins to boil. Flavor 
with Sherry wine. Serve as soon as made. 

MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Sauce for Pudding. — One cup sugar, one cup creamed 
butter, one egg beaten separately, one cup boiling water. 
When ready to serve add one wine-glass wine, or flavor to taste. 

MRS. D. C. PIIELAN. 

Sauce for Pudding. — Cream one cup butter, two cups 
sugar, very light. Flavor with wine or rose brandy and grated 
nutmeg. mrs. william j. webster. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



103 



»r DELICIOUS w 

Flavoring 
Extracts 



NATURAL FRUIT FLAVORS 

OF PERFECT PURITY 
OF GREAT STRENGTH 
ECONOMY IN THEIR USE 



VANILLA 
LEMON 
ORANGE 

ROSE EtC ) FLAVOR AS DELICATELY 
AND DEL1CI0U5LY AS THE FRESH FRUIT 



FOR A- 



Singer, Ulheeler $ Wilson, 
OlMte, new Rome, 

or any other Sewing Machine made, do not 
fail to get prices from 

S. B. STEPHENS, 

No. 3 N. Main Street, Columbia, Tenn. 

JAS. ANDREWS, JR. 

DEALER IN 

farming ana Agricultural 
Implements, 

feed Stuffs, etc. 

PUBLIC SQUARE, COLUMBIA, TENN. 



Lemon Sauce. — One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
light beaten egg, juice and grated rind of one lemon, one-half 
cup boiling water. Put into pan, and thicken over steam. 

MRS. WYATT C. HARRISON. 

Lemon Sauce {for puddings or sponge cake) . — Cream one-half 
cup of butter with three-fourths cup of sugar, beat in one well- 
whipped egg the juice and half the grated rind of one lemon, 
and a teaspoon of nutmeg. Beat hard, then add one-half cup 
of boiling water. Set the pan which holds the mixture within 
another pan of boiling water (it must boil) until the sauce is very 
hot but not boiling. Stir constantly until slightly thickened. 

MRS. JOHN TROTWOOD MOORE. 

Lemon Sauce. — One pound sugar, three ounces butter, one- 
half cup water, juice and rind of two lemons. Boil and beat 
in the yolks of two eggs. When cold add the whites of two 
well-beaten eggs. This is delicious with Delmonico pudding. 

MRS. S. W. WARFIELD. 



104 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Sauce for Sponge Roll. — Yolk of an egg beaten in one 
tablespoon of butter, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of boiling 
water. mrs. e. e. erwin. 

Wine Sauce. — Cream together one-fourth cup of butter and 
one cup of powdered sugar until light. Then beat in one whole 
egg. Cook together one tablespoon of corn starch or flour, one- 
half cup of wine, and one cup of boiling water, one saltspoon 
of nutmeg, and one saltspoon of salt ; pour over the creamed 
butter, sugar, and egg, and let boil up once. 

MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 

Whipped Cream Sauce. — Beat together one cup of sweet 
cream, one teaspoon of vanilla, or a little grated lemon rind, 
one-half cup of powdered white sugar, and the whites of one 
or two eggs. This sauce may be flavored with a little fruit jelly 
beaten with the egg before adding to the cream. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 



FANCY' DESSERTS. 

Orange Charlotte. — One-half box gelatine, one cup cold 
water, one cup boiling water, one and one-half cups sugar, juice 
of three lemons, one cup of orange juice and pulp, three eggs 
(whites). Line a mould or bowl with lady fingers or sections 
of oranges. Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft. Pour on 
the boiling water, add the sugar and the lemon juice, strain and 
add the orange juice and pulp, with a little of the grated rind. 
Cool in a pan of ice water. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, 
and when the orange jelly begins to harden beat it till light. 
Add the beaten whites and beat together till stiff enough to 
drop. Pour into the mould. One pint of whipped cream may 
be used instead of the whites of the eggs, or it may be piled 
on top after the charlotte is removed from the mould. 

MRS. A. J. NICHOLS. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK.' 105 

Cherry Charlotte. — Select perfect, ripe cherries of a 
bright red color. Cover a tablespoon of gelatine with cold water, 
let soak for half an hour and add two tablespoons of hot water; 
stir until dissolved. Dip a two-quart mould in ice water and 
stand in a pan of cracked ice. Dip each cherry in the gelatine 
and press against sides of the mould where they should stick. 
Fill the center with a rich charlotte russe and stand on ice to 
harden. Take carefully from mould and serve on flat dish. 

MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 

Jellied Prunes. — Wash one-half pound prunes, soak over 
night. Put them on to cook in same water, cooking slowly until 
quite tender, but not broken. Use sugar to taste, but do not 
add until fruit is almost done. Drain well from the syrup and 
cut in halves, removing the stones. Soften one-half package of 
Knox gelatine in a half cup of cold water in which the fruit is 
cooked. Put through a fine strainer and add one-half cup of 
Sherry or juice of two lemons. Place in moulds with layers of 
the fruit and chill well before serving. Whipped cream may be 
served with this. mrs. m'alplne. 

Angel Parfait. — Boil one cup sugar and one-half cup water 
to the soft-ball stage, or until it thickens like icing. Then beat 
it into the well-beaten whites of two eggs. Whip three pints of 
cream very stiff and add the eggs and syrup. When it has be- 
come cold, flavor with a teaspoon of violet extract and pack in 
ice and salt for several hours. mrs. A. c. floyd. 

Hamburg Sponge. — Half a cup of sugar and juice of two 
large lemons heated in saucepan. Add the well-beaten yolks of 
eight eggs and half a cup of sugar. Cook over hot water until 
thick. To this add half a package of gelatine softened in suffi- 
cient cold water to cover it. While hot fold in lightly the beaten 
whites of eight eggs. Pour into tube moulds. Remove from 
mould when it has congealed. Fill the center with whipped 
cream, also around the sponge, and garnish with crystalized 
cherries. mrs. Robert church. 

8 



106 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Macaroon Cream. — One large pint of milk. Let this come 
to a boil, then add yolks of two eggs, one teacup of sugar and 
two tablespoons of corn starch well creamed together. Stir 
briskly until it thickens. When partly cool add whites beaten 
to a froth. When cool add one quart cream, a little Sherry 
wine or vanilla, and one or two dozen macaroons rolled fine. 
Freeze. mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Maple Parfait. — Beat the yolks of eight eggs until light, 
add two cups of maple syrup; place the mixture over a slow 
fire, stirring constantly until the eggs have thickened enough to 
make a thick coating on the spoon (cook about twelve or fifteen 
minutes). Turn this into a bowl and whip until cold. It will 
then be very light. Add a quart of cream well whipped, stir- 
ring lightly together. Place in mould, pack in salt and ice for 
four or five hours. Serve with or without whipped cream. 

MRS. A. C. FLOYD. 

Cafe Parfait. — Make black coffee with three-fourths of a 
cup of boiling water and one-half cup ground coffee. Strain 
and add one-half cup sugar mixed with the yolks of three eggs 
well beaten. Boil in double boiler until thick. Strain, cool, 
and mix with one pint of cream well whipped. Place in mould, 
pack in salt and ice for four or five hours mrs. a. c. floyd. 

Almond and Apple Whip. — Cook some tart apples and 
crush them to pulp through a sieve. Blanch and pound fine 
one-half pint almonds; add one pint cold apple pulp, one half 
cup white sugar, and beat in one-half pint whipped cream. 
Beat nuts light and thick, and set on ice at least one hour before 
serving. Serve in tall, slender glasses, the tops strewn with 
blanched almonds cut in strips. MRS. J. p. street. 

Moose. — One quart cream, one tablespoon gelatine dissolved 
in cold water, then put on fire to melt. Sweeten cream and 
flavor, then whip stiff. Add gelatine and beaten whites of four 
eg^s. Pack in freezer four hours or longer before serving. Be 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 107 



sure to have the thickest cream for moose ; can be made white 
or colored. For packing, use two parts of ice to one of salt. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 

Ambrosia. — Six oranges, remove all pulp and seed; one 
pineapple, sliced or grated; one cocoanut, grated. Sweeten 
to taste. Put in a bowl, alternating layers of each ; reserve 
enough cocoanut to sprinkle on top. mrs. d. w. leneave. 

Baked Bananas.— Strip off the skins, and take off every 
particle of the fibre underneath of six bananas. Put them in a 
granite dish and sprinkle two tablespoons sugar over them, a 
tablespoon of lemon juice, two tablespoons of water, and bake 
in a quick oven for about twenty minutes, basting frequently. 
Serve warm. mrs. w. b. harrison. 



CUSTARDS. 

Boiled Custard. — One-half gallon morning's milk put in a 
kettle and allowed to come nearly to a boil, six eggs beaten 
lightly, and one coffeecup sugar. Pour hot milk over eggs and 
sugar; pour in kettle and let stay a few minutes till scarcely 
boils; stir gently to prevent burning. Pour into a bowl and 
slip up and down until nearly cold. Serve with rich whipped 
cream. Season all with vanilla and whisky if desired. 

MRS. J. J. STEPHENSON. 

Charlotte Russe.— Whites of twelve eggs, one pound pul- 
verized sugar, one-third box gelatine dissolved in one-half cup 
of sweet milk. Beat eggs to a stiff froth and stir in the sugar. 
When gelatine is dissolved strain into the eggs and sugar. Mix 
well, and flavor with vanilla. Whip the cream, and as the froth 
rises dip it off and stir into the icing, beating it constantly until 
a desired amount of cream is used. Set aside and let it con- 
geal. MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 



108 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Charlotte Russe — Sweeten one quart of cream, flavor, 
and whip lightly. Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in one 
tablespoon of cold water and one tablespoon boiling water. 
Set over steam of kettle to dissolve. Then add one half pint 
of cream. When cold stir it into the whipped cream ; add the 
well-beaten whites of four eggs. When it begins to stiffen pour 
into glass bowl lined with lady fingers. 

MRS. STUART FLEMING. 

Charlotte Russe. — One quart of "cream and one-half cup 
of sugar; flavor to taste; two tablespoons gelatine soaked in 
one-half cup of sweet milk. Mix all together, and use the 
whip-churn. Skim off cream as it rises, and put in glass bowl 
lined with lady fingers. mrs. o. p. rutledge. 

Frozen Charlotte Russe. — One quart cream, whites of 
four eggs, one-third box of gelatine. Sweeten the cream, flavor 
with sherry wine, and whip lightly. Dissolve gelatine in a 
tablespoon of cold water, same of boiling water. Make an 
icing of the eggs and four tablespoons of sugar. Into this stir 
the dissolved gelatine, and then add the whipped cream. When 
it begins to stiffen freeze in any desired mould. 

MRS. N. R. WILKES. 

Fruit Gelatine. — Put two boxes of dissolved gelatine in 
three pints of boiling water, and add two and one-half cups of 
sugar. When nearly cold put in one cup wine, one cup whisky, 
one pound raisins, one pound almonds, one pound currants, 
four oranges. Throw fruit in hard when gelatine has nearly 
congealed. mrs. e. e. erwin. 

Charlotte Russe. — Three pints of rich cream, whites of 
six eggs, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, one half box gela- 
tine, flavor with vanilla. Dissolve the gelatine in one-half tea- 
cup of cold water; after it has dissolved, pour on it one-half 
teacup of boiling water. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in 
the sugar as if for icing, and flavor with vanilla to taste. Churn 
the cream, and as it rises dip it off on to a sieve and let it drain 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 109 

&...Rain$' Uanilla extract 

Made in our own laboratory from the finest Mexican Vanilla 
Beans, ripened with age for two years before it is sold, and 
guaranteed strictly pure, and to contain no Tonka or other adul- 
terants. Price— regular bottles, 35 cts. ; %-pint, 90 cts.; pint, 
$1.75. Also Lemon, Banana, Pineapple, Orange, Peach, Rose, 
Celery, etc. — regular bottles, 25 cts.; J^-pint, 60 cts.; pint, $1.00. 
Fancy fruit colorings in red, green, violet, yellow, etc. 



RAINS, THE DRUGGIST 



into a dish. If the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved, strain it 
on to the icing; then turn the whipped cream into the icing. 
The yellow of one egg (beaten well) put in last; beat until it 
conceals. mrs. frank everett. 

Caramel Custard. — Make raw custard (one egg to two 
cups), tablespoon of sugar to each cup (white sugar turned by 
holding over hot fire); then pour a little in each cup. Then 
pour custard in and put in a pan of water to let bake. Take 
out and "put on ice. Pour out in saucers when ready to serve. 

MRS. FRANK EVERETT. 



ICE CREAM. 

Caramel Ice Cream. — One quart milk, one quart cream, 
two cups sugar, two tablespoons corn starch, three eggs, and 
vanilla. Melt one cup of the sugar in a skillet to a brown 
syrup, then add the milk which has been heated. Add the 
three yolks, one cup of sugar, and corn starch well creamed 
together; let boil, stirring all the time; if at all lumpy, strain 
through a sieve and add whites beaten to a froth. When cold, 
add cream and flavoring. Freeze, mrs. stuart Fleming. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. — One quart of rich cream, one scant 
cup of sugar, one egg (white), one tablespoon vanilla. When 
milk comes to a boil remove from stove, and stir in sugar till it 



110 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



1876 



Hi 



Phone 
20 



iiii 



:.': 



1902 



CHATMN BROS. 



GROCERS 

DEALERS IN ICE, PRODUCE, ETC. 



WHOLESALE 
AND RETAIL 



We have the exclusive sale of the follow- 
ing goods, which can not be equaled in 
quality: Chase & Sanborn's Roasted Cof- 
fee and Emperor's Tea, Wilhoit's Daisy 
Flour, Reed's Anti-Rust Tinware, and, in 
fact, the very best groceries on the mar- 
ket. We guarantee prices lower than any 
firm in the city, quality considered 



]VTo. 12 PUBLIC SQUARE 



dissolves. Set aside to cool. Then add the well-beaten egg 
and vanilla, and freeze. If cream is very rich, a small quantity 
of milk may be added. mrs. v. h. hughes. 

Watermelon Ice Cream. — Make cream as usual, and partly 
freeze; then scoop out the center, coloring this a watermelon 
pink, and add seeded raisins; flavor with sherry wine and va- 
nilla. Pour back into freezer and set away to mellow for sev- 
eral hours. Serve sliced. mrs. j. j. Stephenson. 

Chocolate Cream. — One quart of fresh milk, three eggs, 
one teacup of sugar. Let milk come to a boil, then add two 
tablespoons of chocolate rubbed to a paste with a little cold milk. 
Add yolks and sugar well beaten. Let all come to a boil. 
When partly cool add the whites. When ready to freeze, add 
as much fresh cream as you wish. Flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. STUAT FLEMING. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. Ill 

Tutti Frutti Cream. — One gallon milk; boil with two ounces 
of arrow root made into a paste with a little cold milk. Take 
from the fire as soon as it begins to boil, and add three and a 
half cups of white sugar. Flavor with vanilla, and freeze. Af- 
ter it begins freezing, add one pound of raisins, seeded and 
chopped; one pound almonds, blanched and chopped; one- 
fourth pound citron, cut in small pieces; one-fourth pound 
peach or strawberry preserves, or crystallized fruits. 

MRS. J. W. SHELTON. 

Banana Cream. — Yolks of four eggs, two-thirds cup of 
sugar, one quart milk, two good tablespoons corn starch dis- 
solved in a little milk, good pinch of salt, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon. Cook this in double boiler like you would boiled custard. 
When cold, pour over sliced bananas. Beat whites to a stiff 
froth, and beat in two tablespoons of sugar. Then put on top 
of cream. mrs. nettie ruttle. 

Hot Chocolate Sauce For Ice Cream. — Make a custard 
with one* quart of morning's milk, three eggs, one-half teacup 
of sugar, and chocolate to taste (about two squares). Serve 
hot over ice cream. Omit the chocolate, and add chopped 
nuts to the above custard. This also makes a delicious sauce 
for cream. mrs. j. j. stephenson. 

Rum Sauce for Ice Cream. — Pour two tablespoons of best 
Jamaica rum over the well-beaten yolk of one egg, very slowly, 
beating hard all the time; add one cup of powdered sugar and 
then the stiffly-beaten white of egg. Serve at once. 

MRS. C. W. BRADSHAW. 

Tapioca Cream. — Two tablespoons of tapioca to soak over 
night in a little cold water. In the morning put the tapioca 
into a pint of milk and heat until it begins to boil, then add 
yolks of two eggs beaten into half cup sugar and a little milk, 
a little salt. Stir until it thickens. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth and stir into the cream, and serve ice cold. 

MRS. NETTIE RUTTLE. 



112 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



phone Alcorn's Drug Store 

lice Cream or Sberbet 



ANY QUANTITY FROM A QUART TO TEN GALLONS OR 
MORE DELIVERED TO ANY PART OF THE CITY. 

Velvet Cream. — Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a 
gill of water ; add half a pint of light sherry, grated lemon 
peel and the juice of one lemon, and five ounces of sugar. 
Stir over the fire until thoroughly dissolved, then strain and 
cool. Before it sets, beat into it a pint of cream, pour into 
moulds, and keep on ice until wanted. Or half fill the moulds 
with fine strawberries, pour mixture on top, and place on ice 
until wanted. MRS. s. T. maxwell. 

Spanish Cream. — One quart milk, one-half box gelatine; 
let gelatine stand in milk for an hour or so; two-thirds cup 
sugar, yolks three eggs. Put this on and cook until it thickens 
like cream, then set off to cool. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth, and when your cream is about lukewarm, pour it in gradu- 
ally to the cream. Put it in a cool place. 

MRS. NETTIE RUTTLE. 

Velvet Cream. — Boil one cup sugar and one-half cup water 
to soft ball ; pour over the whites of two eggs beaten lightly ; 
beat till cold, flavor, then fold in three cups of whipped cream, 
turn into a mould, pack in ice several hours ; turn from mould 
and serve. MRS. J. K. orr. 

Lalla Rookh. — Cut in small pieces a quantity of lady 
fingers, almonds, macaroons, French cherries, apricots, and an- 
gelica ; stir all lightly together ; fill a mould with the mixture. 
Make one quart of rich custard, reserving a cupful, and add to 
the remainder one ounce of gelatine that has been soaked thirty 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 113 



minutes. Stir custard well; strain in the gelatine, mix the in- 
gredients well. When mould is nearly full, pour in the re- 
maining cup of custard. Freeze in summer, putting around 
salt and broken ice. Serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. A. SAMUELS. 



WATER ICES. 

Grape Sherbet.— Lay a square of cheese cloth over a large 
bowl, drop in two pounds of ripe Concord grapes and mash 
thoroughly with a wooden masher. After squeezing out all the 
juice, add an equal amount of water, the juice of two lemons, 
and enough sugar to make it quite sweet (a little more than a 
pound). Freeze. mrs. john trotwood moore. 

Pineapple Sherbet.— Pour juice of one can pineapple into 
a bowl, simmer fruit with one pint water for twenty minutes ; 
boil one pound sugar with one pint water, rub cooked pine- 
apple through sieve; add it to boiling syrup; cook fifteen min- 
utes longer, add juice ; two tablespoons dissolved gelatine and 
juice of two lemons improve this very much. Freeze. 

MRS. O. P. RUTLEDGE. 

Pineapple Sherbet.— Boil two cups of sugar in one-half 
gallon of water; when cold, add one can grated pineapple and 
juice of four lemons. Just before it begins to freeze, add yolks 
of three eggs whipped lightly and mixed with two tablespoons 
of pulverized sugar. mrs. A', barr. 

Milk Sherbet.— Juice of seven lemons; strain and add two 
cups of sugar. Let stand one hour. Put into freezer one-half 
gallon of milk and one-half cup of sugar. When this begins to 
freeze add lemon syrup. mrs. J. W. shelton. 

Apricot Ice.— Cut the contents of one can of apricots in 
small pieces ; add one pint sugar and one quart water. When 
the sugar is dissolved, freeze ; add one pint cream when it be- 
gins to freeze. mrs. j. w. shelton. 



114 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



KEEP YOUR EYE ON THIS SPACE AND REMEMBER THAT 

HARLAN & RITTER 

Buy the best and sell the cheapest. We are exclusive 
agents for the PEERLESS ICELAND FREEZER- best 
Freezer made and uses less ice. Freezes cream in 3^ 
minutes. All sizes from 1 - pint to 10 -gallon size. 



Strawberry Ice. — Mash and strain two quarts strawber- 
ries, sweeten to taste; add one quart cream or milk, and 
freeze. mrs. J. w. shelton. 

Frozen Mint.. — Juice of six lemons, one large orange, one 
quart water, two cups sugar. Add to this essence of pepper- 
mint or the fresh mint. Stir and freeze. Nice as last course, 
after coffee. mrs. Robert pillow. 



FRUIT JUICES. 

Fruit Juices. — To every pint of juice made from berries 
add one-half pint of water and from one-fourth to one-half 
pound of sugar; let it come to a good boil, and seal air-tight in 
bottles. This makes a delicious summer drink. 

Grape Juice. — Two gallons of grapes, three cups of water, 
mash, put on to boil as for jelly. Put through the colander, then 
through jelly bag ; return to boiler, boil and skim. Bottle 
while hot and seal. mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Lemon Syrup. — To each quart of pure lemon juice add two 
pounds of granulated sugar ; allow to come to a boil, skim 
clean, boil ten minutes longer and seal air tight. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Pour one quart of vinegar over 
three quarts of raspberries. Let stand three days. Strain 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 115 

them and to each pint of juice add one pound of sugar. Boil 
ten minutes, skim closely, and bottle up. A few spoonfuls in 
a glass of ice water makes a most refreshing summer drink. 

MRS. HORACE RAINEY. 

PUNCHES. 

Claret Punch. — Mix together in a claret cup one bottle of 
claret, one wine-glass of brandy, the yellow rind of a lemon 
cut very thin, sprig of mint, and a few slices of cucumber, 
sugar enough to make the cup palatable, plenty of finely-shaved 
ice, and, last of all, two bottles of seltzer water or plain soda. 
Serve the claret cup as soon as made. mrs. Robert pillow. 

Charleston Light Dragoon Punch. — One and a half 
dozen lemons, one pound sugar, one quart strong tea, four 
quarts Apollinaris water, six bottles ginger ale, one quart 
whisky, one quart rum, one quart French brandy, one quart of 
Maraschino cherries, and ice. mrs. Robert sparrow. 

Punch of Rockbridge Alum Fame. — One quart strong 
tea, one can of pineapple sliced, four lemons sliced, sugar to 
taste. Let this stand an hour, then add one pint of Jamaica 
rum, one pint jar of Maraschino cherries, one gallon California 
white wine. Add a block of ice. mrs. e. h. hatcher. 

WINES. 

Elderberry Wine {Mr. Ruslitorfs Recipe). — Cut berries 
with short stem; put into a clean tub and mash with wooden 
masher; then strain through a coarse bag. To one quart of 
juice add three quarts of water and three pounds of sugar; stir 
till sugar is dissolved. It should soon begin fermenting (if not, 
put yeast cake in the liquid) ; keep removing the dark scum that 
rises for two or three days ; then put into a jug, and let ferment ; 
keep filling the jug for five or six days; then place the cork in 



116 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

light for a few days; then tighten it and let stand six months to 
ripen. The longer kept the better. 

For blackberry wine, use the pure juice and two pounds of 
sugar. 

For raspberry wine, use three quarts of juice, one quart of 
water, and two pounds of sugar. mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Blackberry Wine. — Thoroughly cleanse and mash the ber- 
ries, and to every gallon add one quart of boiling water. Cover 
with cloth and let stand twenty-four hours. Strain through a 
cloth bag, and to every gallon of juice put four pounds brown 
sugar; stir well and put in stone jar; cover with thin cloth and 
let stand tnree months. Drain off and put in bottles and jugs, 
and cork. Two or three raisins dropped in each bottle will 
greatly improve the taste. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Blackberry Wine. — Wash and pick the berries ; mash well, 
and to every gallon add one pint of boiling water. Let stand 
twenty-four hours; strain through a cloth bag, squeezing well. 
To every gallon of juice add three and a half pounds of sugar. 
Cover with muslin cloth, and let stand three months. Drain 
off and bottle for use. mrs. j. w. shelton. 

Blackberry Cordial. — Two quarts of juice, one pound of 
loaf sugar, half ounce allspice, half ounce cinnamon, half 
ounce nutmeg, one-quarter of an ounce of cloves. Put the 
spices into a little bag with the syrup and boil fifteen minutes. 
When cold, add a pint of good brandy. 

MRS. ROBERT SPARROW. 

Sweet Grape Cordial. — Select twenty pounds of very ripe 
grapes; add three quarts of water; place in a porcelain kettle. 
Stir well until it begins to boil ; boil twenty minutes, then strain 
through a cloth; add three pounds of while sugar. When the 
sugar is dissolved, strain again through a fresh cloth. Heat 
again to boiling point ; pour into small bottles, as it will not 
keep long after opening. Seal instantly. Dip each bottle neck 
into hot sealing wax. mrs. stuart Fleming. 



IF 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 117 

YOU WILL ALWAYS HAVE IN YOUR HOME 

THE BEST OF THEIR KIND, USE 

fIDaywell Ibouse Blent) Coffee 

AND 

...Banquet Baking pow&er... 

WE GUARANTEE THEM UNSURPASSED. A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. 



NASHVILLE COFFEE & MFG. CO. NASHVILLE, TENN. 



BEVERAGES. 

Steamed Coffee. — The coffee is put in a pot and boiling 
water poured on it; this pot, which is made to fit into a tea- 
kettle, is placed in the kettle, and the coffee is cooked from ten 
to twenty minutes, the water in the kettle boiling all the time. 
This will make a clear, delicious drink. 

MRS. W. P. MORGAN. 

Tea. — In making tea, the pot should be earthen, rinsed with 
boiling water, and left to stand a few minutes on the stove to 
dry. Put in the tea leaves, and let the pot stand a few minutes 
longer ; pour on boiling water, leaving the pot standing when 
it will be at the boiling point, yet will not boil, for from three 
to five minutes. For moderate strength use one teaspoon of 
tea to half a pint of water. MRS: w. p. morgan. 

Chocolate. — Dissolve six tablespoons grated chocolate in 
one quart of boiling water; boil fifteen minutes, and add one 
quart of rich sweet milk. Serve while hot; sweeten to taste. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARIX 

Chocolate Drink. — Scrape fine an ounce (one small square 
of Baker's chocolate) or any plain chocolate. Add two table- 
spoons sugar, and put into a small saucepan with a tablespoon 
of hot water. Stir over a hot fire for a few minutes, or until it 



118 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 




KIN HEE QUICK COFFEE POT 

AND 

KIN HEE COFFEE POT COFFEE 

Look like any other 
coffee pot and cof- 
fee on the outside, 
but nside they are 
different. 

Write to us for particulars. 



JAS. HEEK1N & CO. 



CINCINNATI, O. 



KIN HEE QUICK 




KIN HEE M. & J 



is perfectly smooth and glossy; then stir it all into a quart of 
boiling milk, or half milk and half water. Mix thoroughly and 
serve at once. If it is wanted richer, take twice as much 
sugar, chocolate, and water. Excellent. 

MRS. ALICE HUGHES SMITH. 



MISCELLANEOUS 



Time Required for Cooking Bread and Pastry. — Bis- 
cuit, ten to twenty minutes ; bread, forty to sixty minutes 5 
bread (steam brown), three hours; cake (fruit), two to three 
hours; cake (plain), thirty to forty minutes; cake (sponge), 
forty-five to sixty minutes; cookies, ten to fifteen minutes; cus- 
tards, fifteen to twenty minutes; gems (Graham), thirty min- 
utes; ginger-bread, twenty to thirty minutes ; pie crust, thirty 
to forty minutes; pudding (bread), one hour; pudding (In- 
dian), two to three hours; pudding (plum), two to three hours; 
pudding (steam), one to three hours ; rice or tapioca, one hour. 

For Burns, apply white of an egg or soda. 

Bee Sting, apply wet soda and coal oil. 

While Slicing Onions, hold them under water to prevent 
strength hurting the eyes. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 119 

When a Chimney Takes Fire, throw salt on fire, shut off 
draught as much as possible. 

It is said that branches of the elder bush hung in the din- 
ing room will drive out flies. There is an odor which the in- 
sects detest. 

Red Ants. — A small bag of sulphur kept in the sideboard 
will drive away red ants. 

It is said, when cooking onions, set a tin cup of vinegar on 
the stove, and no disagreeable odor will be detected. 

Placing Eggs in a bucket of fresh cold water will make them 
beat quicker, stiffer, and lighter. 

Turpentine mixed with stove polish prevents rust and gives 
a brighter gloss than the use of water. 

A small quantity of green sage placed in the pantry will 
keep out red ants. 

To beat whites of eggs quickly, add a pinch of salt. 

Yolks of eggs should be beaten until a spoonful can be 
taken up clear of strings. 

Cold biscuit can be made fresh by moistening and placing 
in oven until heated through. 

Lemons are improved and kept fresh by keeping in cold 
water till ready to use. 

For the Toilet. — Mix equal parts of each, alcohol, glycer- 
ine, and water; add a few drops of perfume. Rub on face 
and hands after bath. Excellent for chapped skin or to prevent 
chapping. mrs. george nichols. 



CANNING FRUIT. 

The following table gives the time required for cooking, and 
the quantity of sugar to the quart of the various kinds of fruit. 
By observing these rules, fruit may be successfully canned : 



120 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

TIME FOR QUANTITY OF 

FRUIT. BOILING FRUIT. SUGAR TO QUART. 

Plums 10 minutes. 10 ounces. 

Blackberries 8 " 6 

Pie Plant, sliced io " 8 

Peaches, whole 15 " 4 " 

Peaches 8 " 4 

Cherries 5 ' k 6 " 

Gooseberries 8 " 8 " 

Bartlett Pears, halved 20 " 6 " 

Raspberries 6 ' ' 4 ' ' 

Quinces, sliced 30 " 10 " 

Siberian Crabapples 25 " 8 " 

Small Sour Pears, whole 30 " 10 " 

Sour Apples, quartered 20 " 8 '' 

Strawberries 8 " 8 " 

Tomatoes 30 " None. 

Sulphurated Fruit. — Apples may be cut in large pieces, 
with or without peel. Put in basket and hang in the top of a 
close barrel, covering with something heavy — an old quilt, 
folded, makes a good cover. Have in the barrel an oven of 
coals on which to pour the sulphur. Cover and leave four or 
five hours. One cup of sulphur to a half bushel o^ fruit will 
be sufficient. Do not put all the sulphur on at once. It is best 
to use half cup and leave for an hour or two; replenish fire and 
use other half. It is a good idea to sulphurate in afternoon and 
leave basket hanging in barrel over night. Take from basket, 
pack in large-mouthed stone jar, and tie a muslin cloth over it. 
Leave this without any other cover, in order that the sulphur 
may evaporate. Peaches halved and sulphurated are excellent 
with cream and sugar. MRS. J. w. shelton. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 121 



JELLIES, JAMS, MARMALADES, ETC. 

Preparation of Jellies. — Reject all over-ripe, unripe, or 
partially decayed fruits. Apples, crabapples, and quinces 
should be first steamed or cooked in a little water to soften 
them. No juice must be allowed to drain out without pressing 
or squeezing. The juice of berries, grapes, and currants may 
be extracted without the fruit being first scalded, if preferred, 
by putting the fruit into an earthen vessel and mashing well 
with a potato masher, then putting into a jelly bag and allow to 
drip. Jellies are generally made of equal measures of juice 
and sugar, measured before boiling. 

Apple Jelly. — After apples, grapes, or plums have boiled 
half an hour, strain through a flannel bag, pressing it now and 
then. For every cup of syrup use a cup of sugar. Put suga r 
in large flat pan in oven to warm. Boil syrup twenty min- 
utes; then add sugar and boil awhile. Put in pitcher that 
has been well heated, tie a piece of cheese-cloth over it, and 
strain into heated glasses. mrs. v. h. hughes. 

Apple Jelly without Sugar. —Select juicy, white-fleshed, 
sub-acid fruit, sound but not mellow. Wash well, slice and core 
without removing the skin, and cook until tender. Drain off 
the juice, and if a very clear jelly is desired, filter it through a 
cheese-cloth wrung out of hot water. Boil rapidly at first, but 
more gently as it becomes thickened. One hour at least will 
be required for one or two quarts of juice. When it jellies suf- 
ficiently, remove at once from the fire. A much larger quan- 
tity of juice will be needed for jelly prepared in this manner 
than when sugar is used — about two quarts of juice for one-half 
pint of jelly. Excellent served with grains. Diluted with 
water, a most pleasant beverage. MRS. V. H. hughes. 

Apple Jelly. — Pare and slice a peck of apples; the more 
acid the better. Pack in kettle and pour in enough water to 

9 



122 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

cover them. Boil till soft enough to mash. Pour into a bag 
and hang up to drain ; squeeze slightly. To every cup of juice 
put a cup of sugar; then add the juice of three lemons. Boil 
very fast twenty minutes, or until it jellies. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARD. 

Quince Jelly. — Rub the fruit with a cloth until perfectly 
smooth. Cut in small pieces, and pack in the kettle. Pour in 
cold water enough to cover the fruit, and boil until very soft. 
Put into a three-cornered bag and hang up to drain ; squeeze 
slightly. To every pint of juice add a pint of sugar warmed in 
a pan before using. Boil fifteen minutes, or until jellied. Pour 
into moulds. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Grape Jam. — Hull the grapes, boil the pulps until soft, seed 
them by use of colander or thin cloth, then add hulls and pound 
for pound of sugar, cooking until it is the consistency of any 

jam. MRS. W. C. WI1ITTHORNE. 

Cherry Preserves. — Seed the cherries carefully, reject- 
ing all faulty ones. Weigh them, and to every pound add a full 
pound of sugar, putting in vessel a layer of sugar and a layer 
of cherries alternately. Let stand over night, then pour into 
kettle, and boil gently till fruit is thoroughly tender and syrup 
thick. Put in glass jars (fill level), cut piece of white paper, 
dip in brandy or wine, and put over top ; then put on jar top. 

MRS. J. M. SHEPPARD. 

Candied Cherries. — Stone the cherries without bruising; 
drain, weigh, and to each pound allow a pound of sugar ; add just 
enough water to melt the sugar; bring to boiling point and skim. 
Put in the cherries and push to one side of the range where 
they may remain hot, but not boiling, for at least an hour; then 
draw the kettle over the fire and cook slowly until the cherries 
are transparent; skim, drain, sprinkle sugar over them, and 
place on a sieve in the sun or in an oven to dry. This syrup 
will answer for the boiling of several pounds of cherries. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 123 



CANDIES. 

Candy {simple recipe said to be used by Vassar girls in their 
rooms at school). — Two cups sugar, one cup milk, piece of butter 
half the size of an egg, one teaspoon of vanilla extract. Cook 
mixture until it begins to get grimy. Then take from the fire, 
stir briskly, and turn into buttered tins. Before it hardens cut 
into squares. miss mary blackburn. 

Candy. — Six cups sugar, one-half cup syrup, three-fourths 
cup butter, one pound English walnuts, one-half pound figs, 
three tablespoons whisky or brandy. Mix sugar with enough 
cream to dissolve thoroughly ; add butter and syrup. Stir. 
Cook until it ropes; take from the fire and beat. Before the 
candy gets hard, add nuts and figs chopped fine, over which 
pour whisky or brandy; beat this mixture thoroughly and pour 
into a buttered dish. miss olivia barrow. 

Sugar Candy.— Three cups white sugar, one cup equal 
parts vinegar and water. Cook one-half hour ; do not stir; add 
one teaspoon flavoring. mrs. w. J. oakes. 

Cream Candy.— One pound white sugar, one tablespoon 
vinegar, one tablespoon lemon extract, one teaspoon cream tar- 
tar ; add enough water to moisten the sugar. Boil till brittle, 
put in extract, and then turn quickly out on buttered plate. 
When cool, pull until white, and cut in squares. 

MRS. AB. ADKISSON. 

Cream Candy.— Three cups sugar, three tablespoons vine- 
gar, one cup cream, one-half cup water. Stir thoroughly ; place 
on fire and cook slowly. When it begins to cook like mush, 
try it on a marble slab. If it comes up without sticking, flavor 
to taste and pour it out. Pull rapidly ; when cold, cut with 
scissors. Let it stand for several hours and it is delicious. 

MRS. S. P. HAWES. 



124 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Taffy Candy. — Five cups brown sugar, one cup water, 
one-half cup vinegar, one tablespoon butter. Cook until it 
hardens in water; add flavoring, pour on buttered pans, and 
when cool pull until white and porous. Mies. w. l. rucker. 

Caramel Candy. — Two cups sugar, one cup cream ; place 
on fire. One cup sugar, put in a pan and let scorch ; stir 
while scorching. When it becomes a syrup pour into the other, 
and stir until it is well mixed. Drop it in cold water, and if it 
comes up without sticking, take from the fire and stir it until 
almost cold. Pour into a buttered dish and cut in squares. 

MRS. S. P. HAWES. 

Chocolate Candy. — Three teacups of sugar, one teacup 
milk, one-fourth of a teaspoon of cream of tartar, chocolate to 
taste. Drop in cream of tartar when it begins to boil. When 
done, set aside to cool partially, and add a small quantity of 
vanilla. Beat until it can be turned out on a marble slab, then 
knead well with the hands and form into any desired shapes. 

MRS. F. D. LANDER. 

Chocolate Creams. — Two cups pulverized sugar, one and 
a half cups cream ; flavor with vanilla, boil five minutes, and 
make into balls. Steam chocolate until soft, cover balls and let 
harden. mrs. w. l. rucker. 

Chocolate Caramels. — One and a half pounds brown 
sugar, one quarter of a pound of butter, one-fourth cake of 
Baker's chocolate, one tablespoon molasses, one tablespoon 
vinegar, one-half cup cream. Boil until it cracks in cold water ; 
then beat until thick enough to pour; then cut in two-inch 
squares. miss louise wooldridge. 

Chocolate Caramels. — One and one-half cups grated 
chocolate, four cups brown sugar, one and a half cups water, 
butter the size of an egg, two tablespoons vinegar. Boil over 
brisk fire until brittle when dropped in water. Do not stir, but 
shake the vessel while boiling. Add two teaspoons vanilla just 
before pouring into a buttered dish. Check in squares while 
warm. mrs. w. l. rucker. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 125 

Pecan Candy.— Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup cream 
or milk, and butter the size of a walnut; one cup of pecan nut 
meats. Boil sugar with cream, or milk and butter. When it 
will thread from the spoon add nuts, and stir until it thickens; 
then pour into buttered pans, and cut in squares. 

MRS. N. R. WILKES. 

Pecan Brittle.— One teacup of pecans rolled fine, one tea- 
cup of sugar melted back to syrup. Have your biscuit rock 
well greased, rolling-pin well greased. Just as soon as the sugar 
is all melted, put in the nuts, pour out on the rock, roll out 
quickly. Then break in pieces. Any kind of nuts can be 

use d. MRS. W. S. FLEMING. 

Cocoanut Candy.— Two cups sugar, one-half cup cream, 
one cup grated cocoanut. Boil six minutes. Stir as it cools, 
and when it begins to thicken drop in spoonfuls on a dish 
which has been buttered and sprinkled with cocoanut. 

MRS. GEORGE NICHOLS. 

Syrup for Popcorn Balls.— Use for this either sugar and 
water boiled until it spins a thread, or molasses. Boil the mo- 
lasses down until when you drop it in cold water it forms a soft 
ball. Take it from the fire and pour it lightly over the pop- 
corn, and press at once into shape. mrs. w. b. Harrison. 



PICKLES. 

Pickle.— Boil one and one-half gallons pure apple vinegar 
with one ounce race ginger, two ounces white pepper, two 
ounces whole allspice, one ounce mace, two ounces tumeric, 
one-half ounce cloves, four ounces celery seed, two teaspoons 
black pepper, two sliced lemons, four pounds brown sugar, one 
tablespoon salt. Pour this while boiling over one peck cucum- 
bers. Take one ounce garlic, one ounce horse radish, two 



126 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

sliced onions, one-half ounce mustard mixed to a paste with 
olive oil, and put into the pickle cold, not to be boiled. This 
can be easily halved, as it is a large quantity. 

MRS. H. P. F1GUERS. 

Chow-Chow. — Chop one-quarter peck green tomatoes, one 
large head cabbage, eight large onions, one-half gallon cucum- 
bers; pack in salt for one night; drain twenty-four hours; soak 
in vinegar and water two days; then drain again twenty-four 
hours. Add to this one-half cup grated horse radish, one- 
fourth cup black pepper, one-fourth cup tumeric, one-half ounce 
celery seed, one-fourth pound white mustard seed, one pint 
small whole onions. For three mornings pour over them three 
gallons boiling vinegar ; then add one box of ground mustard 
and one and one-half pounds of brown sugar. When cool, add 
wineglass of olive oil. mrs. c. t. jones. 

Chow-Chow Pickle. — One gallon chopped green tomatoes, 
one gallon sliced cucumbers, two large heads cabbage, chopped 
fine, and fifteen large onions, chopped. Pack in salt and drain 
for one night (if cucumbers are taken from brine they will be 
salt enough) ; then soak in weak vinegar two days, drain again 
twenty-four hours. Then mix with this : One cup grated horse 
radish, one-half cup black pepper, one-half cup tumeric, one- 
half cup cinnamon, two gallons vinegar, one-half pound white 
mustard seed, one-half pint small white onions, one ounce celery 
seed. Boil and pour over pickles the third morning; mix one 
box ground mustard and four pounds brown sugar, and add to 
the pickle. mrs. newt, vaughan. 

Chow-Chow. — One-half peck green tomatoes, two large 
heads of cabbage, fifteen large white onions, twenty-five cucum- 
bers (one gallon), cut in large pieces and pack in salt for a 
night. If you take your cucumbers from the brine, they will 
afford salt enough. Drain for twenty-four hours, then soak in 
vinegar and water for two days. Drain again for a night, then 
mix with this: One teacup of grated horseradish, one-half tea- 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 127 



J. P. STREET & CO 



Hardware and Implements 
Buggies and Harness 

"Acme" Wall Plaster, 

Foreign and Domestic Cements, 

Grates, Fire Brick, Etc. 

No. 1 1 Public Square, COLUMBIA, TENN. 



cup biack pepper, one-half teacup tumeric, one ounce celery 
seed, one -half pound white mustard seed, one pint small 
onions put in whole, one and a half gallons of vinegar; boil 
and pour over three mornings. The third morning mix two 
one-third pound boxes of Coleman's ground mustard and three 
pounds brown sugar. mrs. w. s. Fleming. 

Leesburg Chow-Chow. — One-half peck green tomatoes, 
two large heads of cabbage, fifteen large white onions, twenty- 
five cucumbers (one gallon). Cut in large pieces and pack in 
salt for a night. Drain for twenty -four hours, then soak in vine- 
gar and water two days. Drain again for twenty-four hours, 
and then mix together one teacup of grated horse radish, one- 
half teacup black pepper, one-half cup of tumeric, one-half cup 
of cinnamon, one ounce celery seed, one-half pound white mus- 
tard seed, one pint of small onions, put in whole, and one and 
one-half gallons of vinegar. Boil and pour over pickle for three 



128 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

mornings. The third morning mix in two boxes of ground mus- 
tard and three pounds of brown sugar. 

MRS. O. P. RUTLEDGE. 

Chopped Pickle. — Chop up fine one gallon of cabbage, 
one-half gallon green tomatoes, one-half pint green pepper 
(leaving out the seeds), one quart onions, chopped (the juice 
thrown away). Put with salt in a coarse muslin bag ; suspend 
and let drip all night ; then put layers of the above in your ket- 
tle, with spices, etc., sprinkled between. For the above quan- 
tity, use four tablespoons ground mustard, two tablespoons gin- 
ger, one tablespoon cinnamon, one tablespoon cloves, four 
tablespoons tumeric, three tablespoons celery seed, two table- 
spoons salt, one-half pint horse radish, grated, or four table- 
spoons of the pulverized put up in bottles, two pounds brown 
sugar, one-half gallon vinegar. Boil slowly for twenty min- 
utes. Best made late in summer. mrs. w. j. webster. 

Mixed Pickle. — One peck cucumbers, one gallon onions, 
one large cabbage, one pound white mustard seed, one pound 
ground mustard (Coleman's), one and a half pounds brown 
sugar, two ounces tumeric. Slice cucumbers in pieces one inch 
long, chop cabbage, but not fine ; quarter onions ; sprinkle with 
one pint of salt; put in a bag to drip all night. In the morn- 
ing rinse in cold' water, then scald in vinegar. As soon as it 
comes to a boil, pour back into the bag to drip while mixing the 
seasoning. Put all the seasoning in a vessel with one quart of 
vinegar and mix thoroughly. Now put the cabbage, cucumbers, 
and onions in a jar. Add one and a half quarts of vinegar to 
the seasoning, and pour over pickle ; mix well. Add more 
vinegar in a few days, if needed. This makes three gallons of 

pickle. MRS. T. N. FIGUERS. 

Virginia Mixed Pickle. — One-half peck green tomatoes, 
twenty-five cucumbers, fifteen large onions, two large heads of 
cabbage, one pint small onions, one pint scraped horse radish, 
one-half pound white mustard seed, one-half ounce ground 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 129 

white pepper, one ounce celery seed, one-half ounce cinna- 
mon, one ounce tumeric, one-half pint salad oil, one fourth 
poim4 ground mustard. Slice tomatoes and large onions. Cut 
cabbage as for slaw (not too fine). Quarter the cucumbers 
lengthwise and cut in pieces an inch long. Sprinkle with salt 
and let stand one day. Drain well, put them in vinegar and 
water, and let stand two days. Strain well, mix in thoroughly 
all the spices (except ground mustard), and pack in jar. Pour 
over it one and one-half gallons of boiled vinegar. This do for 
three successive days, using the same vinegar each time. The 
third day mix oil well with ground mustard, and last time the 
vinegar is boiled add two pounds nice brown sugar. When it 
gets cool, beat into it gradually the oil and mustard. Pour over 
pickle. Cover tight. mrs. sallie morgan. 

Chopped Pickle.— One gallon cabbage, one gallon toma- 
toes, one quart onions, chopped fine, and one pint pepper. Let 
this stand a few hours, and then squeeze well and add : Four 
tablespoons mustard seed, two tablespoons ginger, one table- 
spoon each cinnamon, cloves, tumeric, celery seed, and salt to 
taste ; two pounds sugar, one-half gallon vinegar. Mix well 
and boil twenty minutes. mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Sour Pickle. — The proportions in this recipe are for one 
gallon of pickle. x\fter the cucumbers are soaked and ready 
to be made, scald them in vinegar and keep covered during the 
time. Put into a jar one teacup of brown mustard seed, two 
tablespoons white mustard seed, one-half pint small white 
onions, a (ew pieces of race ginger mashed, one nutmeg broken, 
a handful of sliced horse radish, two or three garlic roots, and 
red and black pepper to taste. Put the pickle in the jar with 
this mixture, and cover with cold vinegar. Cover closely, and 
it will be ready for use in a few hours, mrs. j. d. barrow. 

Pickled Onions. — Peel and boil small onions in milk and 
water for ten minutes. One-half ounce mace, one-fourth ounce 
cloves, five tablespoons salt, one-half ounce alum, and one gal- 



130 COLUMBIA COOK BUCK. 

Ion of vinegar. Boil vinegar and spices together. After drain- 
ing from onions the liquor in which they have been boiled, pour 
over them the boiling vinegar and spices. Put in jars and 

seal. MRS. V. H. HUGHES. 

Cucumber Pickle. — Take cucumbers out of brine, soak in 
water several days, changing the water often. Scald in weak 
vinegar, putting into this a tablespoon of alum to a gallon of 
cucumbers; let them stand in this until cold. To one-half gal- 
lon of strong vinegar add two cups of sugar, spices tied in a 
big (no cloves), one tablespoon of black pepper, a little garlic. 
Heat and pour over cucumbers. mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Peach Mangoes. — Put large peaches in brine, let remain 
three days; then soak in fresh water thirty-six hours, remove 
stones, and fill with the following : One small white cabbage 
head cut fine, five cents' worth white mustard seed, black mus- 
tard and celery seed, a little grated horse radish, a tablespoon 
white table mustard, two large onions, a small bottle salad oil, 
and one pound brown sugar. Boil apple vinegar into which 
has been put five cents' worth each of mace, pepper, spice, and 
cloves; brown sugar to taste; pour over peaches while boiling. 
Repeat this three mornings. Cover well, tie closely. 

MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Stuffed Peppers. — Remove the stems and seed from six 
large peppers. Into a saucepan put a small cup of milk and 
bread crumbs to thicken ; when it is cooked sufficiently to absorb 
the milk, rub until smooth, then add a cup of cold meat that 
has been chopped or ground in a meat mill. Season with onion, 
pepper, salt, and chopped parsley; add two large spoons 
melted butter and a well-beaten egg. Fill the pepper with this 
mixture, packing tightly. Arrange in a saucepan with the open 
ends up, and pour well seasoned stock around. Cover, and 
bake three-quarters of an hour. Serve with tomato catsup. 

MRS. R. C. GANT. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 131 

N. F. VAUGHAN 

DEALER IN AEL KINDS OF LUMBER, SASH, 

DOORS, BLINDS, LATHS, SHINGLES, POSTS. 

WE ALSO WISH TO BUY ALL GRADES 
OF ROUGH LUMBER. 

CITIZENS' PHONE J48 EAST EIGHTH STREET 

Cucumber Sweet Pickle. — Open the cucumbers and scrape 
the seed and the pulp from them; put into water, changing 
water every day until the salt taste has been entirely soaked out. 
To every two pounds of cucumbers add one and a quarter pounds 
sugar and one pint vinegar; boil or scald the sugar and vinegar 
together, and pour on the fruit while hot, for three days; boil all 
together for twenty minutes. On the fourth day add spices, 
cinnamon bark, .cloves, and mace to taste. Add a little white 
mustard seed to every two pounds of fruit. Cover with green 
grape leaves while boiling, to give it a pretty green color. First 
scald the cucumbers in weak alum water. 

MRS. W. S. FLEMING. 

Cucumber Sweet Pickle. — Slice cucumbers one inch thick, 
boil for one hour in strong alum water; take out and put in cold 
water, to remain until perfectly cold. Boil again in weak alum 
water a short while ; again put in cold water. Drain well. 
Make a syrup of one pound of sugar to each pound of fruit — 
four pounds of fruit to one pint of cider vinegar. Let the syrup 
be boiling well when fruit is added, and boil until transparent. 
Add mace. If syrup is not thick enough, boil after taking out 
fruit. When cold sprinkle with white mustard seed. 

MRS. ROBERT PILLOW. 

Peach Pickle. — To seven pounds pared fruit take one pint 
vinegar, three pounds of sugar, one ounce of cloves, and one 
ounce of cinnamon. Boil the vinegar, sugar, and spices, and 



132 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

pour over the fruit while hot. Repeat this for two mornings. 
The third morning scald the fruit in the syrup. Repeat the 
operation for seven mornings, scalding the fruit as often as 
necessary to make it tender. mrs. baird. 

Sweet Peach Pickle. — One gallon peeled peaches, one quart 
vinegar, and two and one-fourth pounds of sugar. After peeling 
peaches cut one side to the stone with sharp knife. Boil vine- 
gar and sugar and pour over peaches. Next morning take same 
syrup and boil and pour over peaches again. The third day 
cook all together, adding one ounce of whole cloves. Cook 
till fruit is clear and tender. mrs. f. b. webb. 

Sweet Peach Pickle. — Peel one peck of large cling-stone 
peaches; stick four or five cloves in each peach, and put in 
stone jar. Boil and skim thoroughly one-half gallon of good 
apple vinegar and eight pounds of sugar. While boiling hot, 
pour over the fruit and cover closely. Pour off syrup next day 
and boil again. Repeat this nine days till the syrup is of the 
consistency of thin molasses. Pour over peaches and cover jar 
with a sheet or two of white paper, and a^cloth over that. They 
are now ready for use. mrs. j. m. sheppard. 

Tomato Sweet Pickle. — On four pounds green tomatoes, 
sliced, sprinkle three pounds of sugar. Let this stand six or 
eight hours; then stew until syrup is as thick as that of pre- 
serves; then take tomatoes out, add one quart of vinegar and 
spices to the syrup, and boil again until as thick as before; then 
put tamotoes in and cook a few minutes. Ripe tomatoes can 
be used if preferred. mrs. w. b. iiarrison. 

Tomato Sow — One gallon ripe peeled and cored tomatoes, 
one pod red pepper, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon grated 
nutmeg, one teaspoon ground ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
four large onions, twelve tablespoons sugar, six tablespoons salt, 
eight teacups vinegar. Chop fine, mix well, and boil slowly 
until quite thick. mrs. Robert ewing. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 133 

J. A. SLOAN & CO. 

STRICTLY 
WHOLESALE GROCERS 



COLUMBIA, TENNESSEE 

Ripe Tomato Soy. — Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, eight onions, 
six peppers, eight cups vinegar, eight tablespoons sugar, four 
tablespoons salt, one tablespoon cinnamon, one tablespoon all- 
spice, one tablespoon nutmeg, one tablespoon cloves. Boil all 
together, and seal while hot. MRS. G. w. blackburn. 

Watermelon Sweet Pickle. — Cut about ten pounds of 
inch-thick, crisp, and tender rind into fancy or plain pieces two 
inches long. Put in porcelain kettle. To one gallon of rind 
add two teaspoons each of salt and alum. Use enough water 
to cover. Boil till tender enough to pierce with silver fork ; 
pour into colander to drain, and dry by taking a few pieces at a 
time and pressing gently with towel. Then bruise and tie in 
muslin bag four ounces of ginger root; drop it into a syrup 
made of one quart of vinegar, two pounds of white sugar, one 
ounce of cinnamon. The syrup to be poured over the rind 
bailing hot for three days in succession. The last time when 
syrup boils put the rind in and let it boil five minutes. Bottle 
and seal. mrs. w. b. harrison. 

Citron of Watermelon Rind. — Cut the rind in strips of 
pretty leaves, place in a china bowl and strew over a double 
handful of salt; pour over hot water, let remain twenty-four 
hours. Take out, plunge in cold water; let it remain twelve 
hours to extract salt. Green the rind by using a small piece of 
alum, steaming until green, keeping it closely covered ; then 
put it into a kettle of ginger tea made by pouring boiling water 



134 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

over eight or ten pieces of race ginger, a part of them being 
crushed. Boil slowly until tender enough to pierce with a 
straw. Take out and weigh; to every pound of rind put one 
and one-half pounds of granulated sugar; add water as for 
other preserves. Let it boil a few minutes; then add race gin- 
ger and rind. Let boil until clear. About an hour before re- 
moving from fire, add one-half dozen pieces of mace and two 
lemons sliced thin. Seal the citron air tight. 

MRS. E. LITTLEFIELD. 

Melon Pickle. — Pare, remove the seed, and carve the out- 
side of enough green muskmelons to make a gallon. Soak 
twelve hours in salt water, then twelve in fresh water, changing 
the water three times in the twelve hours; then soak in weak 
alum water twelve hours. Boil in fresh water till it is clear. 
Make a syrup, allowing two pounds of sugar to one of melon, 
and boil the melon in it till it is transparent and has absorbed 
all the syrup possible. Place the melon in jars and scatter 
stick cinnamon, a few cloves, and a little mace through it ; pour 
in the syrup, then put in a half pint of very strong cider vine- 
gar while the pickle is still hot. mrs. s. A. granbery. 

Watermelon Rind Pickle. — Peel outer rind from ten- 
pound melon ; put in a kettle and cover with water ; let boil a 
few minutes, then remove from the water and lay on a dish to 
drain and cool. Remove water from kettle and place the rind 
in kettle again ; cover it with vinegar and add four pounds 
sugar, a half ounce each of cinnamon, cloves, and allspice. 
Let them boil together a short while, then remove to stone jars. 
Boil the vinegar nine successive mornings. 

miss sallie looney. 

Crab Apple Sweet Pickles. — Stick two or three cloves into 
each ripe crab apple; put them in a jar and pour over them a 
boiling syrup of one-half gallon pure apple vinegar, half the 
weight of apples of sugar, a dessert spoonful each of cinnamon, 
cloves, and mace. Every other day pour off this syrup, heat, 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 135 



m 

Racket 



^ ^ Is the place to find a full line of household 
necessities. We can at all times supply your 
needs in the way of Tinware, Hardware, China 
and Glassware, Kitchen Utensils, Water Coolers, 
Ice Cream Freezers, Ice Picks and Ice Shavers. 
We carry the largest and most complete stock of 
Wall Paper in the city, including the newest and 
up-to-date patterns in all grades; also Window 
Shades, all prices; Curtain Poles, all prices. 
Try a Bamhoo Porch Shade, all sizes. We are 
always pleased to see you in our store. 
Respectfully, 

F - s ™r G The Racket 



and pour over apples again, until the third and last time; boil 
apples also until tender enough to stick with a straw. 

MRS. H. P. FIGUERS. 

Cherry Pickle. — To one quart of cherries use eight table- 
spoons of sugar, and fill jar with best vinegar. Put layer of 
sugar and layer of cherries until jar is filled. 

MRS. J. H. WILKES. 

Brandied Peaches. — Put peaches in boiling water a few 
minutes, when the skin will peel off easily. Make a syrup of 
half pound of sugar and half teacup of water for each pound 
of peaches. Skim as scum rises in boiling, then put in peaches 
and boil gently until tender — no longer. Take them out care- 
fully, and fill your cans or jars. Remove syrup from fire, and 
add to it half pint best brandy or whisky for each pound of 
peaches. Pour over fruit. mrs. j. w. shelton. 



136 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



CATSUPS. 

Tomato Catsup. — To one quart of ripe tomatoes add two 
tablespoons salt, two of black pepper, same of mustard, one- 
half tablespoon of allspice, and three red peppers ground fine, 
or a small teaspoon of cayenne. Simmer the whole with a pint 
of vinegar in a tin vessel for three hours; strain through a 
sieve, bottle and cork. mrs. a. m. hucihes. 

Good Green Tomato Sauce. — One gallon green tomatoes 
measured after chopping fine, one quart of vinegar, one quart 
sugar, one pint chopped onions, two tablespoons white mustard 
seed, two of salt, one tablespoon each of ground black pepper 
and spice, one and one-half tablespoons ground cloves. Boil 
all together until tender. mrs. j. j. Stephenson. 

Green Tomato Catsup. — Take one gallon of green toma- 
toes, slice thin, put in a preserving kettle; cook thoroughly 
done, then mash through a colander, then through a sieve. Add 
one quart of apple vinegar, two tablespoons of salt, one of black 
pepper, one of mustard seed, one teaspoon of allspice, one of 
red pepper, one of mace, one of cinnamon, and sugar to taste. 
Put spices in a bag and cook slowly for three hours; bottle and 
seal. Ripe tomatoes can be used the same way. 

MRS. M'ALPINE. 

Grape Catsup. — Five pounds grapes; boil well and mash 
through a sieve, getting all pulp you can ; two and a half pounds 
sugar, one tablespoon each cinnamon, allspice, and mace, in a 
bag, also a taste of cayenne pepper, and salt, one pint good 
cider vinegar; boil all together till thick, then bottle, and if 
sealed will keep well. mrs. h. b. titcomb. 

Horseradish Catsup. — One coffeecup grated horseradish, 
two tablespoons white sugar, half teaspoon salt, and a pint and 
a half cold vinegar. Bottle and seal. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 137 



THAT EXPRESSION, FINE AS SILK," 

FITS THE SITUATION — 
BARLEY, BEEF, AND WHEAT AND MILK 

OF OUR COMBINATION. 



WAMPOLE'S 
MILK FOOD 



Soluble and easily prepared. A perfect food for in- 
fants and invalids. Contains all the elements needed 
for the perfect nutrition of children from birth. 
Simply mix with water. Needs neither boiling nor 
cooking. 



Sold by W« P. Woldridge, Druggist, Columbia, Term. 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 

Food for the Sick. — The following are some of the most 
important articles of diet for the sick. The lightest and sim- 
plest foods are considered the best, and should be served in 
small orders, and in a dainty manner, so as to be more appetiz- 
ing to the invalid. 

Food for the Sick {Tapioca Cup Pudding). — This is very 
light and delicate for invalids. An even tablespoon of tapioca 
soaked for two hours in nearly a cup of new milk. Stir into 
this the yolk of a fresh egg, a little sugar, a grain of salt, and 
bake in a cup for fifteen minutes. A little jelly may be eaten 
with it if allowed, or a few fresh strawberries. 

MRS. W. B. HARRISON. 



138 COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 

Soft-Boiled Eggs. — Put the egg in boiling water. Place 
the vessel on part of the stove where the water will not boil. 
Let it remain four minutes. mrs. o. c. owen. 

Thickened Milk. — With a little milk, mix smoothly a tea- 
spoon of flour ; pour over it a pint of boiling milk. When 
thoroughly mixed, return to the saucepan, stirring constantly. 
Let it boil at once. Add salt to taste. Excellent for diarrhoea. 

MRS. O. C. OWEN. 

Rice Water. — Take four tablespoons of rice, add two 
quarts of water, boil two hours. mrs. o. c. owen. 

Beef Extract. — Take a porterhouse steak about one inch 
thick, remove all fat, broil it quickly over a brisk rire. Have 
ready a teacup warmed in hot water ; place the beef in a lemon 
squeezer, extracting all the juice into the cup. Season with 
salt and pepper. Serve at once. Invaluable where solid food 
can not be taken. mrs. o. c. owen. 

Milk and Eggs. — Beat up a fresh egg with a little salt; 
pour upon it a pint of boiling milk, stirring constantly. This is 
very refreshing in case of weakness. mrs. o. c. owen. 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



POISONS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES. 



POISONS. 

Acids — f 

Sulphuric, 

nitric, muri- \ 



Carbolic 
Acid. 



Prussic. < 

L 

Arsenic, ( 

Paris Green, \ 
Fowler's So- \ 
lution. 

Nitrate of ( 
Silver {lunar \ 
caustic). (^ 

Mercury, 
JVhite and 
Red Precip 
itate, Corro- < 
sive Subli- 
mate, Ver- 
million. 
Antimony, ( 
Tartar emet- \ 
ic, Oxide of \ 



Antimony. 

Phosphorus, 
matches, etc. 



ANTIDOTES. 

Give alkali — soap and soda usually at hand. 
Provoke vomiting. Give bland drinks and milk. 
Secure rest. Relieve pain with opium, and stim- 
ulate if necessary. 

Give Epsom salts, dilute sulphuric acid, glyce- 
rine, and oil. Produce vomiting. Stimulate if 
necessary. 

Give dilute ammonia water, chlorine water, 
solution of a salt of iron. Produce vomiting, 
and stimulate if necessary. 

Provoke vomiting. Give hydrated oxide of 
iron. Magnesia in large quantities. Give milk, 
butter, and a dose of castor oil. Avoid giving 
acids. Stimulate if necessary. 

Give strong solution of common salt and repeat 
often. This decomposes the poison. Produce 
vomiting. 

Albumen, whites of eggs, milk and wheat flour 
in water. Provoke vomiting. Give some infu- 
sion containing tannic acid. 

Give large drafts of warm water. Provoke 
vomiting. Give infusion of oak bark. Give 
raw eggs and milk and a dose of castor oil. 
Stimulate if necessary. 

Give emetics, magnesia and water, and mucil- 
aginous drinks freely. 



140 



COLUMBIA COOK BOOK. 



POISONS. 

Acetate and ( 
sulphate of j 
zinc (white ■{ 
vitriol). 

Copper and 
its salts, 
Verdigris. 
Alcohol. 
Opium, 
Morphine, 
Laudanum, 
Paregoric, 
Chloral. 



Strychnine. 

Acetate of C 
Lead (sugars 
of lead). (_ 

Creosote. 



r 

Iodine. 1 

i 

i 

Alkalies, ( 
Carbonate of \ 
Ammonia, J 
Caustic Pot-* 
ash, Harts- 
horn, Lye. 



ANTIDOTES. 

Vomiting will be relieved by large draughts of 
warm water. Carbonate of soda in solution will 
decompose the sulphate. Milk and albumen will 
act as an antidote. 

Give albumen, milk, white of eggs in solution 
freely. Avoid giving vinegar. 

Provoke vomiting. Give hartshorn and water. 

Provoke vomiting repeatedly. Give atropine, 
strong coffee, and tea. Keep the patient in mo- 
tion. Dash cold water on the head and shoul- 
ders. Use artificial respiration if necessary. 

Give emetics, chlorine water; inhale chloro- 
form, ether, and the nitrate of amyl. Give chlo- 
ral and the bromides. Secure rest. 

Give Epsom salts or diluted sulphuric acid. 
Produce vomiting. Give bland drinks and dose 
castor oil; lemonade and white of eggs. 

Give albumen and white of eggs, milk, or 
wheat flour. Provoke vomiting. 

Give starch, wheat flour, and arrowroot well 
mixed in water. This makes an insoluble com- 
pound. Give vinegar and water and move the 
bowels. 

Give vinegar, lemon juice, or citric acid in 
solution. Give castor oil, olive oil, linseed oil, 
and mucilaginous drinks. Provoke vomiting. 
Relieve pain with opium and stimulate if neces- 
sary. 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Soups 7 

White Broth 7 

White Soup 7 

Cream of Celery 7 

Black Soup 8 

Cheap Soup ° 

Tomato Soup 9 

Oyster Soup 9 

Green Corn Soup 9 

Gumbo File (Mrs. Jefferson Davis' Recipe) 9 

Cream of Corn Soup IO 

Cream of Asparagus Soup IO 

Oyster Gumbo t ll 

Cream of Tomato Soup ll 

Turtle Bean Soup ll 

Creole Soup I2 

Consomme I2 

Irish Potato Soup ■ l 3 

New Orleans Okra Gumbo I 3 

A Garnish for Soup 1 3 

Oysters l 3 

Oyster Stew l 3 

Fried Oysters l 3 

Grilled Oysters. *4 

Scalloped Oysters *4 

Oyster Cocktail ! 4 

Fine Oyster Pie H 

Oyster Cocktail 1 5 

Fresh Oysters 1 5 

Fish ! 5 

Baked Fish J 5 

Fish. *5 

Baked Fish with Oysters l6 



142 INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Fish and Meat Sauces 16 

Cream of White Sauce 16 

Sauce Tartar 16 

Tartar Sauce for Fish 17 

Mint Sauce for Lamb 17 

Sauce for Roast Beef 17 

Horseradish Sauce 17 

Holandaise Sauce 17 

Chili Sauce 17 

Cranberry Sauce 18 

Mayonnaise (No. 1) 18 

Mayonnaise (No. 2) 18 

Mayonnaise , 18 

Mrs. Lincoln's Mayonnaise Dressing 18 

French Dressing 18 

Drawn Butter 18 

Game and Poultry 19 

Baked Turkey 19 

To Prepare a Turkey for Roasting 20 

Oyster Dressing for Turkey 20 

Oyster Dressing for Turkey 20 

Smothered Chicken 20 

Escalloped Chicken 21 

A Quick Way to Broil Chicken 21 

Broiled Chicken 21 

Celeried Chicken 21 

Fried Chicken 22 

Chicken Timbales 22 

To Broil Birds 22 

Quail on Toast 22 

Broiled Squirrel 23 

Roast Duck 23 

Roast Goose 23 

Forced Meat 23 

Apple Stuming 23 

Eggs 24 

Steamed Eggs 24 

Baked Eggs 24 

Eggs in Cream Sauce 24 

Eggs with Cheese 24 

Stuffed Eggs 25 



INDEX. 143 



Eggs — Continued. page. 

Scrambled Eggs 2 5 

Shirred Eggs 26 

Shirred Eggs 26 

Rumbled Eggs 26 

Omelets 27 

Omelet. 27 

Delicate Egg Omelet 27 

Oyster Omelet 27 

Egg Omelet 27 

Cheese Souffle 27 

Croquettes 28 

Chicken Croquettes 28 

Croquettes 28 

Croquettes 28 

Salmon Croquettes 3° 

Salmon Croquettes 3° 

Meat Turnovers 3° 

Sweetbread or Brain Croquettes 3° 

Ham Croquettes 3° 

Oyster Croquettes 3 * 

Potato Croquettes ' 3 1 

Chicken Croquettes 3 1 

Fish Croquettes. 3 1 

Chafing Dish 3 2 

Oysters Maitre d'Hotel , 3 2 

Welsh Rarebit 32 

Fricassee of Oysters 3 2 

Broiled Oysters 3 2 

Ham Rarebit 3 2 

Sandwiches 33 

Cheese Sandwiches 33 

Club House Sandwiches 33 

Sardine Sandwiches 33 

Cheese Straws 34 

Meats 34 

Roast Beef or Mutton 3 6 

To Broil, Bake, or Roast Beef 3 6 

Stuffed Beef or Chine Bone 3 6 

Spiced Beef. 36 

Corn Beef 37 



144 INDEX. 



Meats — Continued. PAGE 

Beef Tongue 37 

Scalloped Beef 37 

To Fry Beefsteak 37 

How to Boil a Ham 37 

Roasted Ham. 38 

Baked Ham 38 

Stuffed Ham 38 

Dressing for Boiled Ham 38 

Scrapple 38 

To Boil Ham 39 

To Broil Ham 39 

Timbales of Liver 39 

Sweet Bread 39 

Boiled Fresh Tongue 39 

Beef Heart 39 

Roast Venison 40 

Broiled Venison Steak 40 

Stewed Brains 40 

Texas Hot Tomales 40 

Scalloped Meats ^ 40 

Mounded Beef 41 

Cold Relishes 41 

Tomato Jelly 41 

Cottage Cheese 41 

Creamed Sweetbreads 41 

Apple Salad 42 

Fruits in Season 42 

Fresh Fruits 42 

Glace Nuts 42 

Hot Relishes 43 

Wine Sauce Relish . . 43 

Deviled Tomatoes 43 

Mushroon Sauce 43 

Salads 44 

Irish Potato Salad 44 

Lettuce and Radish Salad 44 

Cheese Salad 44 

. Rice Salad 44 

Chicken Salad 44 

Chicken Salad 45 



INDEX. 145 



Salads — Continued. page. 

Chicken Salad 45 

Chicken Salad 46 

Potato Salad 46 

Potato Salad 46 

Oyster Salad. 47 

Salad 47 

French Fruit Salad 47 

Salad Pecan , 47 

Strawberry Salad. 47 

Dressings for Salad and Slaws 48 

Mustard or Salad Dressing 48 

Shrimp Salad Dressing. 48 

Dressing for Salad and Fish 48 

Dressing for Slaw 48 

Dressing for Slaw 49 

Cream Salad Dressing 49 

Vegetables.. p 49 

French Cabbage 49 

Baked Cabbage 5° 

Fried Squash 5° 

Summer Squash 5° 

Salsify or Oyster Plant Patties 5° 

Salsify or Oyster Plant. 5° 

Okra Fritters 5 1 

Okra Fritters ' 5 1 

Asparagus 5 ' 

Cauliflower 5 1 

Vegetable Patties 5 * 

Egg Plant 5 1 

Stuffed Tomatoes 5 2 

Tomatoes Fried in Batter 5 2 

Dressed Turnips 5 2 

Candied Potatoes 5 2 

Potato Souffle 53 

Stuffed Potatoes. 53 

Stuffed Beets 53 

Parsnips. 53 

Boston Baked Beans 53 

Corn Patties •. 54 

Canned Corn 54 



146 INDEX. 



Vegetables — Continued. page. 

Corn Cakes 54 

Stewed Corn 54 

Corn Pudding 54 

To Cook Canned Corn 54 

Potato Puff and Cheese 54 

Macaroni 55 

Macaroni, Italian Style 55 

Macaroni with Tomatoes 56 

Deviled Spaghetti 56 

Grains or Cereal Foods 56 

Boiled Southern Rice 57 

Breakfast Food 57 

To Boil Rice Dry 57 

Measures and Weights 57 

Bread 58 

Light Bread 58 

Salt Rising Bread 60 

Salt Rising Bread 60 

Yeast Bread 60 

Quick Light Bread 61 

Light Rolls 61 

Buns 61 

Quick Rolls 61 

Potato Rolls 62 

Sally Lunn and Boston Brozvn Bread. 62 

Quick Sally Lunn 62 

Quick Sally Lunn 62 

Sally Lunn 62 

Sally Lunn 63 

Boston Brown Bread 63 

Brown Bread 63 

Muffins 63 

Royal Sally Lunn Muffins 63 

Muffins 63 

Light Muffins. 63 

Cream Muffins 63 

Corn Muffins 64 

Biscuit 64 

Soda Biscuit 64 

Soda Biscuit. , 64 



INDEX. 147 



Bread — Continued. page. 

Light Biscuit 64 

Beaten Biscuit 64 

Beaten Biscuit 64 

Dainty Wafers 65 

Crackers 65 

Biscuits 65 

Waffles and Flannel Cakes ,. 65 

Waffles 65 

Rice Waffles. . '. 66 

Waffles 66 

Waffles 66 

Virginia Buckwheat Cakes 66 

Buckwheat Cakes 66 

Flannel Cakes 66 

Flannel Cakes 67 

Flannel Cakes 67 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes without Eggs 67 

Corn Bread. 67 

Blue Ribbon Corn Bread 67 

Corn Bread , 67 

Mush Bread 68 

Hominy Bread 68 

Corn Bread. 68 

Old-fashioned Corn Light Bread 69 

Virginia Mush Bread 69 

Indian Pudding 69 

Cakes 69 

White Cake 7° 

Silver Cake 7° 

Delicate Cake. 7° 

White Cake 7° 

Corn Starch Cake 7° 

Corn Starch Cake 7 1 

Cocoanut Cake 7 1 

Angels' Food 7 2 

Two-Egg Cake 72 

White Layer Cake 7 2 

Cocoanut Cake 7 2 

Chocolate Layer Cake 7 2 

Chocolate and Marshmallow Cake 73 



148 INDEX. 



Cakes — Continued. page. 

Marshmallow Cake 73 

White Cake 73 

Eggless Cake 74 

Golden Cake 74 

Yellow Perfection Cake , 74 

Premium Sponge Cake 74 

Very Light Sponge Cake 74 

Nice Quick Sponge Cake 75 

Three-Egg Cake 75 

Park Street Cake 75 

Spice Cake 75 

Spice Cake 75 

Spice Cake 76 

Spiced Ginger Cake 76 

Pecan Cake 76 

English Walnut Cake '. . 76 

Nut Cake 76 

Echo Cake 76 

Fig-leaf Cake 77 

Pork Cake 77 

Fruit Cake 78 

Fruit Cake 78 

Fruit Cake 78 

Fruit Cake 79 

Fruit Cake 79 

Black Fruit Cake . . . 79 

Yellow Fruit Cake 79 

Cocoa Cake. 79 

Fillings 80 

White Fillings 80 

Sponge Cake Filling 80 

Caramel Filling. 80 

Caramel Filling. 80 

Chocolate Filling 80 

Lemon Filling 80 

Fruit Filling 81 

Fruit Filling. 81 

Chocolate Filling 81 

Chocolate Filling 81 

Raisin Smash Filling 81 



INDEX. 149 



Fillings — Continued. page. 

Prauline Filling 81 

Lemon Filling 82 

Prauline Filling 82 

Tea Cakes. 82 

Tea Cakes 82 

Tea Cakes 82 

Tea Cakes 82 

Premium Tea Cakes 83 

Tea Cakes , 83 

Sugar Cakes 83 

Sweet Cakes 84 

Muster Cakes. 84 

Cookies 84 

Nut Cookies 84 

Cocoanut Tea Cakes. 84 

Sponge Drops 84 

Ginger Snaps 85 

Ginger Snaps 85 

Ginger Snaps 85 

Doughnuts 85 

Doughnuts 85 

Old-fashioned Sweet Wafers 86 

Banbury Tarts . 86 

Love Diet 86 

Bell Fritters 86 

Egg Kisses. 86 

Pastry 87 

Aunt Martha's Pastry 87 

Pie Crust 87 

Pastry 87 

Real Puff Paste 87 

Lemon Pies 87 

Lemon Pies 87 

Lemon Pies 88 

Lemon Pies 88 

Lemon Custard 88 

Lemon Custard 88 

Chocolate Pie. 89 

Chocolate Pie 89 

Chess Cake 89 



150 INDEX. 



Pastry — Continued. page. 

Sweet Potato Pie 89 

Sweet Potato Pie 89 

Apple Pie 89 

Apple Pie 90 

Apple Fritters 90 

Sharkey Pie 90 

Molasses Pie 90 

Molasses Pie 90 

Molasses Custard 90 

Buttermilk Custard 90 

Caramel Custard 91 

Caramel Pies 91 

Tyler Custard 91 

Strawberry Shortcake 91 

Mincemeat 92 

Mincemeat *. . , 92 

Mincemeat 92 

Mincemeat 93 

Cream Pie 93 

Raisin Pie. , 93 

Chocolate Custard 93 

Chocolate Custard 93 

Cocoanut Custard 94 

Puddings... 94 

Fruit Pudding 94 

Queen of Puddings 94 

Plum Pudding 95 

Plum Pudding 95 

Plum Pudding 95 

Jeff Davis Pudding 95 

Delmonico Pudding 96 

Delmonico Pudding 96 

Tapioca Pudding 96 

Tapioca Pudding 96 

Snow Pudding 97 

Steamed Pudding 97 

Light Boiled Pudding 97 

Woodford Pudding 97 

Sweet Potato Pudding 97 

Muffin Ring Ginger Pudding 98 



INDEX. 151 



Puddings — Continued. page. 

Chocolate Pudding 9$ 

Chocolate Pudding 9 8 

Chocolate Pudding 9$ 

Nesselrode Pudding • 9& 

Fruit Pudding 99 

Fruit Pudding 99 

Raisin Pudding 99 

Fig Pudding 99 

Prune Souffle I0 ° 

Jelly Pudding. '. . IOO 

Sponge Roll I0 ° 

Sponge or Cake Roll • ioo 

Sponge Roll lo1 

John's Delight Pudding ioi 

Cottage Pudding Ior 

Prune Pudding IQI 

Nesselrode Pudding I01 

Sponge Pudding io2 

Creamy Sauce Pudding io2 

Sweet Sauces I02 

Sauce for Pudding io2 

Sauce for Pudding io2 

Sauce for Pudding io2 

Lemon Sauce io 3 

Lemon Sauce • • • • io 3 

Lemon Sauce • io 3 

Wine Sauce I0 4 

Whipped Cream Sauce ■ io 4 

Sauce for Sponge Roll io 4 

Fancy Desserts io 4 

Orange Charlotte I0 4 

Cherry Charlotte I0 5 

Jellied Prunes 10 5 

Angel Parfait io 5 

Hamburg Sponge io 5 

Maccaroon Cream IQ 6 

Maple Parfait Io6 

Cafe Parfait Io6 

Almond and Apple Whip IQ 6 

Moose Io6 



152 INDEX. 



Fancy Desserts — Continued. page. 

Ambrosia 107 

Baked Bananas 107 

Custards 107 

Boiled Custard 107 

Charlotte Russe 107 

Charlotte Russe 108 

Charlotte Russe 108 

Frozen Charlotte Russe 108 

Fruit Gelatine 108 

Chocolate Russe 108 

Caramel Custard 109 

Ice Cream 109 

Caramel Ice Cream 109 

Vanilla Ice Cream 109 

Watermelon Ice Cream no 

Chocolate Ice Cream •. no 

Tutti Frutti Ice Cream. 11 

Banana Ice Cream . . . .' 1 1 

Hot Chocolate Sauce for Ice Cream 1 1 

Rum Sauce for Ice Cream 11 

Tapioca Cream 1 1 

Velvet Cream 112 

Spanish Cream. 112 

Velvet Cream 112 

Lalla Rookh Cream 112 

Water Ices 113 

Grape Sherbet 113 

Pineapple Sherbet 113 

Pineapple Sherbet 113 

Milk Sherbet 113 

Apricot Ice 113 

Strawberry Ice 114 

Frozen Mint 114 

Fruit Juices. 114 

Grape Juice 114 

Lemon Syrup 114 

Raspberry Vinegar 114 

Punches 115 

Claret Punch 115 



INDEX. 153 



Punches— Continued. page. 

Charleston Light Dragoon Punch 115 

Punch of Rockbridge Alum Fame 115 

Wines 115 

Elderberry Wine 115 

Blackberry Wine 116 

Blackberry Wine 116 

Blackberry Cordial 116 

Sweet Grape Cordial 116 

Beverages 117 

Steamed Coffee 117 

Tea. 117 

Chocolate 117 

Chocolate Drink 117 

Miscellaneous 118 

Canning Fruit 119 

Time for Boiling Fruits 120 

Sulphurated Fruits * • 120 

Jellies, Jams, Preserves 121 

Preparation of Jellies 121 

Apple Jelly 121 

Apple Jelly without Sugar 121 

Apple Jelly 121 

Quince Jelly. 122 

Grape Jam.. 122 

Cherry Preserves 122 

Candied Cherries. 122 

Candies 123 

Candy 123 

Candy 123 

Sugar Candy 123 

Cream Candy 1 23 

Cream Candy 1 23 

Taffy Candy 1 2 4 

Chocolate Candy 124 

Caramel Candy 124 

Chocolate Creams 124 

Chocolate Caramels 124 

Chocolate Caramels 124 

Pecan Candy 125 

Pecan Brittle.. 125 

11 



154 INDEX. 



Candies — Continued. page. 

Cocoanut Candy 125 

Syrup for Popcorn Balls 125 

Pickles 125 

Cucumber Pickle 125 

Chow-Chow 126 

Chow-Chow Pickle 126 

Chow-Chow 126 

Leesburg Chow-Chow 127 

Chopped Pickle. 128 

Mixed Pickle 128 

Virginia Mixed Pickle 1 28 

Chopped Pickle 129 

Sour Pickle 129 

Onion Pickle . . . 129 

Cucumber Pickle 130 

Peach Mangoes 130 

Stuffed Peppers 130 

Cucumber Sweet Pickle 131 

Cucumber Sweet Pickle 131 

Peach Pickle 131 

Sweet Peach Pickle 132 

Sweet Peach Pickle 132 

Tomato Sweet Pickle ; 132 

Tomato Soy.. 132 

Ripe Tomato Soy 133 

Watermelon Sweet Pickle 133 

Citron of Watermelon Rind 133 

Melon Pickle 134 

Watermelon Rind Pickle 134 

Crab Apple Sweet Pickle. 134 

Cherry Pickle 135 

Brandied Peaches 135 

Catsups 136 

Tomato Catsup 136 

Green Tomato Sauce 136 

Green Tomato Catsup 136 

Grape Catsup 136 

Horseradish Catsup 136 



INDEX. 155 

PAGE. 

Food for the Sick 137 

Tapioca Pudding 137 

Soft-Boiled Eggs 138 

Thickened Milk 138 

Rice Water 138 

Beef Extract ; 138 

Milk and Eggs 138 

Poisons and their Antidotes 139 



UL 31 1902 



5 1902 




o^ 




